CONTENTS JUNE, 1922 

CONTENTS JUNE, 1922

Relief Society Assembly Hall and Board Meeting Room Frontispiece
Keep on the Key Joseph H. Dean 293
General Conference of Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman 295
Teachers' Topics for July and August 343
Editorial: The Measure of Success 344
Smoking and Non-Smoking Women Will H. Brown 346

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY
Patronize those who patronize us.

BUREAU OF INFORMATION, Temple Block, Salt Lake City, Utah
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
DESERET BOOK CO., 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
THE DESERET NEWS, Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
FLOWER SHOP, Eccles Bldg., Ogden, Utah
KEELEY'S, Salt Lake City, Utah
MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
McCONAHAY, Jeweler, 64 So. Main St., Phone W. 1821
NATIONAL BANK OF COMMERCE, Ogden, Utah
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT, Bishop's Building Salt Lake City
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City
SERVICE PRESS PRINTERS, 228 W. Broadway, Salt Lake City
S. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY, 251-57 East 1st South
UTAH CANNING COMPANY, Ogden, Utah
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City, Utah
Z. C. M. I., Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
Keep on the Key J. H. Dean No matter what may be your part, Keep on the key. Watch the leader from the start, And keep the key. If you find your "ear" is wrong, Can't tell if you're "off" or "on," Don't keep on and spoil the song, Get on the key. Some one's surely watching you, So keep in step. Watching everything you do, Do keep in step. You will surely look a clown If you're bobbing up and down Out of time with all around, So keep in step. If things still are "out of whack," Try harmony. Like as not you're off the track, Try harmony. Study that an hour a day, You will find that it will pay, Even if you have to pray For harmony. It's important, too, I find To learn to quit. Don't come in one note behind, Learn when to quit. Some folks never get that trick, If they've said it there they stick, Making everybody sick; It's time to quit. Vol. IX JUNE, 1922 No.6 General Conference of Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary The annual conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City on April 4 and 5, 1922. The large attendance and the keen interest manifested throughout were most gratifying and inspiring. Never before at a Relief Society conference has the capacity of the Assembly Hall been so taxed as it was at the afternoon session. When with breathless silence. 2800 earnest, responsive, Relief Society workers listened with rapt attention to the program which covered more than two hours' time. There were five meetings in all, three of them were for officers and two were general sessions. The conference opened with a business meeting of stake officers which was followd in the afternoon by a meeting for stake officers and ward presidents. The second day was devoted to general sessions held in the Assembly Hall, and on Saturday, the 8th, a special meeting was held for stake presidents. The attendance at the various sessions was as follows: General and Stake Officers' meeting, stakes represented, 76; stakes not represented, 10; general board members, 17; mission presidents, 2, representing the Northwestern states and the Western states: other mission reprensentatives, 1; a local member from the California mission; stake presidents, 49; stake counselors, 59; stake secretaries, treasurers. And assistants, 37; stake choristers, 8: stake organists, 6; stake board members, 146; visitors, 7; total, 332. Meeting for general and stake officers and ward presidents: General and stake officers, 332; ward presidents and special visitors, 168; total, 500. General sessions in the Assembly ITall. Morning session, 2500; afternoon session, 2800. Special meeting for stake presidents or one representative, 76 in attendance. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, general chorister for the Relief Society, was in charge of the music which was most appropriate 296 "RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE andjinspiring. She was assisted by Miss Edna Coray, organist, and the Relief Society Choir. At the general sessions, among the esp?cially pleasing numbers were, "I waited for the Lord,' from "Hymn of Praise," by Mendlessohn, sung by Lizzie Thomas Edward, Laurinda P. Brewerton, Eva Aird, and the Relief Society Choir: "The heavens are telling" from Haydn's 'Creation,' by Relief Society Choir, accompanied by instrumental pupils of Clarence Hawkins; "Christ is Risen," sung by Agnes Olsen Thomas, Eva Baird, and Relief Society Choir. The Pioneer stake furnished a group of ushers who were in close attendance at all times, and handled the large crowd most efficiently. On Wednesday evening, April 5, the General Board entertained the stake representatives (two from each stake) at a theatre party in the Salt Lake Theatre, where the play-"Sazy," which was written and staged under the direction of the Utah Stake Relief Society, was presented. President Clarissa S. Williams presided over the various sessions of the conference, and gave timely advice and instructions in ee relating to many important phases of Relief Society work, OFFICERS MEETING MORNING SESSION The conference was opened by the congregation singing, "Zion stands with hills surrounded," which was followed by the invocation by Susa Young Gates. A special musical number, "My Western Home," composed by Professor Evan Stephens, was sung by Laurinda Brewerton, with Prefessor Stephens accompanying. PRESIDENT CLARISSA S, WILLIAMS Mrs. Williams made the opening address of the conference. She extended a hearty welcome to the large gathering of sisters, and expressed her gratitude and appreciation to them for the splendid spirit of love and cooperation that she feels exists in all the organizations. She drew attention to the marvelous growth of the Relief Society organization. When it was organized, 80 years ago, on the 17th of March, its charter members numbered 18. The present enrollment, as shown by the last report, is 52,362 members. President Williams asked that a special effort be made during the GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 297 next year, to raise the average percent of attendance. Of the total enrollment of 52,362 the average attendance is only 17,308. As a special mission for the coming year, she asked the officers to endeavor to raise the average attendance to 26,000, which would be about 50 per cent of the enrollment. President Williams reported the reorganizations and organizations occuring since October conference, and bespoke for the new officers the support and prayers of their more experienced fellow workers, and she expressed the appreciation of the General Board for the faithful service and splendid work of the retired members. President Williams also paid tribute to the memory of the beautiful lives of two devoted Relief Society workers who had been called by death during the year?-Sister Agnes Herrick,. Former counselor in Weber stake, and Sister Louise Benson, for many years president of Oneida stake. Reorganizations: Liberty Stake, October, 1921, Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter, resigned; Mrs. Myrtle B. Shurtliff, appointed, Panguitch Stake, October, 1921, Mrs. Sarah E. Cameron, resigned; Mrs. Elizabeth W. Henderson, appointed. Tooele Stake, October, 1921?Mrs. Alice R. Woolley, resigned; Mrs. Maggie W. Anderson, appointed. Jordan Stake, November, 17, 1921, Mrs. Hilda H. Larsen, resigned; Mrs. Elfleda Jensen, appointed. Woodruff Stake, November 18, 1921?Mrs. Zina Taggart, resigned; Mrs. Esther Thomas, appointed. St. Joseph Stake, January, 1922?Mrs. Josephine C. Kimball, resigned; Mrs. Ethel D, Payne, appointed. South Davis Stake, March, 1922?Mrs. Elizabeth G. Ford, resigned; Mrs. Fred Walton, appointed. New Zealand Mission, April, 1921?Mrs. Ida F. Stott, re~ signed: Mrs. Ida A. Taylor, appointed. Organizations: Lethbridge Stake, November 5, 6, 1921,? Mrs. Mildred Harvey, appointed. South African Mission, February, 1921?Mrs. Florence Jenkins, appointed. After roll call the annual report of the organizations for: 1921 was read by the General Secretary, and some ot tne features of the report commented upon. (See May Magazine.) MRS. FANNY C. HARPER President Juarez Stake Relief Society Mrs. Fannie C. Harper, president of the Juarez Stake Relief Society, which she termed the smallest stake in the Church, gave an interesting report of the conditions in Mexico. Since the return of the Saints to Mexico, they have been gradually effecting a reorganization, and the Relief Society has grown from one 298 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ward to seven wards and a branch. She stated that the Relief Society had presented a cantata, "The Opened Door," and also a pageant of the Relief Society with considerable success. Mrs. Harper made the interesting statement that the "Mormon" women in Mexico had been of great service in establishing peaceful and friendly relations with the natives. The kind and courteous treat-_ ment extended to their opponents by the "Mormon" women has won for them many friends which has aided greatly in making for the safety of the colony. Mrs. Harper bore the following testimony: I wish to tell how the Lord safeguards those who trust in him. You remember how Villa made his retreat and how anxious you were concerning the safety of the "Mormon" people living in Mexico. We were also concerned, and the people were wondering what would be the best thing for them to do. Many of the people were preparing to leave the colonies. The colony I lived in was nine miles from the train. A number of people came to me and said: "Well, Sister Harper, I should think of all the people in Mexico, you would leave here, because you haven't any. Family or ties here. For your safety and for your loved ones in the North, who are very anxious concerning your welfare, we think it would be the best thing for you to go along with us." I began to think it would be the best thing for me to go, and I felt if the Lord impressed me with the desire to go I would leave. I commenced to pray to the Lord, that he would implant in my heart the desire to leave that land, if it was right for me to go, and that my property would be of no consideration to me if he implanted that desire in my heart to go. I prayed earnestly to know his mind and will concerning my going. I heard a voice which spoke just as plain as anybody could speak, and it said to me, "Stand still and see the salvation of the Lord." Immediately all fear left me. I never thought of being afraid. I did not know how our preservation would be accomplished, but I knew the Lord would be with us, and I said, "No, I am not going, I am going to stay here.' And the few of us who remained can bear testimony to you of how the Lord preserved us. When Villa passed through the colonies he did not come into our colonies, but passed us by. When asked why he did not go through the "Mormon" colonies he said he did not know why; but we never saw him nor his men. This has always been a wonderful testimony to me that the Lord safeguards those who trust in him, and the people who live in Mexico have wonderful testimonies of how th? Lord has protected and preserved the people who have remained in the '""Mormon" colonies. GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 299 MRS. MIMA BROADBENT President of Wasatch Stake Relief Society Mrs. Mima Broadbent, president of the Wasatch stake, gave a stimulating talk about the activities in her stake. The teachers of the Wasatch stake are impressed with the thought that their work is not completed when the monthly visit is made. They are urged to have the interest of the families on whom they call, at heart, and to plan something special for their group at least once ayear. The stake offered a pennant as a prize for the ward which reported 100 per cent in their ward teaching, with the result that three wards attained the 100 per cent mark, and all the other wards were above 80 per cent. Scripture reading in the homes has been urged, and at present fifty per cent of the members are engaged in reading the Book of Mormon. In an effort to increase the percent of attendance, a ward contest was held, with a prize of a dozen song books for the ward securing the highest average attendance, and with a penalty of giving a stake Relief Society party, imposed on the ward w: th the lowest attendance. Considerable civic work has been done by the stake, such as beautifying the wards and chapels, and assisting the community in a financial way in securing play ground apparatus. In speaking of testimony meetings, Mrs. Broadbent said: ''During the first part of 1921 we set apart one meeting a month for a testimony meeting. The theme for each meeting is previously prepared, and each ward asked to emphasize that subject, and all the sisters throughout the stake take part in it. No matter what accomplishments we may make in lessons or putting over other activities, there is nothing so priceless to us as a testimony of the gospel; it is the thing we try to impress upon the hearts of our members and our children, for a testimony of the gospel we regard as the most precious legacy we could leave them. Without spiritual food the temporal food will not be satisfying. We are continually emphasizing spirituality and the mission of saving souls, and we always try to keep in sight the great goal and spiritual work which the prophet expected us to do in our Relief Society work." MRS. KINNIE B. CAINE President Cache Stake Relief Society Mrs. Kinnie B. Caine, president of the Cache stake, spoke of her stake as a small and young one. It is, however, well organized and active in all the departments. During the winter, because of financial depression, special emphasis has been placed on their 300 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE relief work.| The Relief Society has worked diligently in collecting and making over old clothing for distribution in the community. Some of this remodeled clothing was donated by the Relief Society to the local Red Cross, and some was kept in the wards for distribution. In Cache stake the wards have worked out a plan of mutual helpfulness, so that a particularly poor ward can secure assistance from a ward that is more fortunate and has a surplus. The Relief Society succeeded in clearing up a misunderstanding in the school situation. Dissatisfaction was expressed by the parents because af half-day sessions, and the superintendent of schools was invited to address a Relief Society meeting. After his explanation of existing conditions, a spirit of cooperation was established. A canvass of the wards has been made and special parties have been given in an effort to increase the attendance. With the hope of carrying a little cheer to the sick and elderly people, the ward Relief Societies, on several occasions, have taken a luncheon, and held a little social -hour at the homes of these people. Some of the Cache stake board members visited the Benson stake conference in order to observe the methods and learn of their activities, and the visit, they decided, was very enjoyable and profitable. The testimony meetings are the most enjoyable sessions held. Besides being comforting they are inspiring and faith-promoting. INSTRUCTIONS President Clarissa S. Wiliams gave the following instructions: Annual Membership and Stake Dues: The time for collecting the annual dues has been extended one month. Formerly, the dues were supposed to be collected in January, sent to the stakes by February 1, and to the General Office by the end of February. At a recent meeting of the General Board it was decided to extend the time one month. The new ruling-is as follows: The aannai membership dues of 25 cents should be paid in advance during January and February of each year. This fund should be sent to the stake secretary not later than February 28. The stake secretary should forward the amount to the General Secretary before the end of March. Stake dues should be paid in advance in January and February of each year, and sent to the stake secretary not later than February 28. Transmitting Information: Stake presidents should be more careful in getting information received at conference or by circular letters, to the ward presicents. That this is not always carefully done is made obvious by the fact that the general office receiv- GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 301 es frequent inquiries about matters that have been explained either at conference or by circular letter to stake presidents. Record Books: The importance of the stake executive officers supervising the business of the ward organization was pointed out. The stake officers are responsible for the condition of the ward records, and should annually go over the business of each ward, and the ward record books. The ward books should also be audited by the ward clerk. During the last year it has been found that some wards have been rather lax in regard to business matters. Some wards have mislaid wheat receipts and have noithing to show for wheat deposits in the Presiding Bishop's office, excepting the sta'ement in the annual report. One ward was holding old wheat receipts which had never been entered in the wheat reports nor record books. So far as the books were concerned, the ward had lost track of them entirely. They had been kept in an envelope and handed down from president to president as reorganizations took place, and when a new president was recen'ly put in this ward she discovered them. The officers who preceded her had never gone over the papers. In another stake recently the secretary went over the ward record books and ward business and found that nearly all of the wards had one or more Liberty Bonds, and the interest coupons had been clipped from none of them. The stake Relief Society record books and all stake business should te inspected frequently by the Relief Society presidency and books should be audited yearly by the stake clerk. Relief Society Annual and Senui-annual Conferences: In the future the Relief Society will hold one official courerence yearly, in April, at which one representative from every stake will be required. The conference in October will consist of a one-day session, an officers' meeting in the morning and a general meeting in the afternoon. It was explained further that this action has been taken because many stakes are financially unable to send representatives to Salt Lake to conference twice a year and are still very anxious to get all official instruction. The question has been repeatedly asked, which of the two conferences is the most important or the most official? It was the aim of the General Board to give official instruction and inaugurate any new movement desirable, at the April conference when all stakes will be requested to have representatives in attendance. At the October conference the plan is to do principally follow-up work. Transfer of Members: President Williams' closing instruction was that when members move from one ward or stake to another during the winter months, the membership should be held in the ward where the regular Church recommend is held. 302 |: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Counselor Louise Y. Robison suggested that in each ward organization there should be a member appointed to receive new members, to greet them and see that they are introduced to others. It often happens that when a Relief Society woman moves to a new ward and attends meeting, no notice is taken of her and she is left to get acquainted as best she can. Sometimes she comes again, which of course she should do, but sometimes she does not. Mrs. Robison also disctissed the transfer of members from one ward to another and the following committee was named, to meet during the noon hour and consider this matter, and make recommendations at a future meeting: Mrs. Laura J. Adamson, of Blaine stake; Mrs. Minnie H. Jensen, of Box Elder stake; Mrs. Julia E. Millier, of Yellowstone stake, Mrs. Evelyn Lyman, of Union stake; Mrs. Alice L. Gardner, of Deseret stake, Mrs. Julia A. Richards, of Portneuf stake. This committee subsequently submitted the following recommendations, which were approved by the assembly: "General Board of: Relief Society: "We, your special committee on transient members, respectfully recommend: "When 2 member moves from one ward to another within the stake, that a certificate of notificaton from the ward of removal be sent to the stake president of Relief Society. "When removals from stake to stake occur, a letter of notification be sent to the General Board from the stake of removal; these letters to designate, if possible, the ward to which the members have moved, and in every case to give standing of the members in the Society. "We further recommend that the teachers in each district be responsible to report any arrivals in their districts to the ward president, and that a committee be appointed to look after new members."; MISS EAGER Supervisor of Nurses' Aids Course Miss Eager, supervisor of the Nurses' Aids Course of the L. D. S. Hospital, gave a brief report of the progress of the work. She expressed a regret that several of the girls had been tunable to complete the work because of physical unfitness, and she urged that great care be taken in the future in selecting the girls, and that the physical examination required for entrance, be a thorough one. This would eliminate much expense and great disappointment GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 303 on the part of the girls and their families. Miss Eager explained that this one years' Nurses' Aids Course is a new experiment and that the girls had to meet the prejudice of doctors and nurses, but that she was pleased to report that because of the good work of the girls, much of the prejudice has been overcome, and the status of this course is now much improved. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman urged the Relief Society to continue its interest in the nurse movement, and to enlist girls to take the various nurse courses offered. She gave the following detailed information as to requirements, allowances, etc., of the Relief Society Nurses' Aids Course, the L. D. S., the Dee and the Salt Lake County Hospital courses: Relief Society Nurses' Aids Course: Classes of ten students entered each January and each August. Ages: 18 to 35. Eighth grade education, or equivalent required. No tuition; one month's e>arity nursing reauire'. Books cost about $12. Allowance of $5 a month for each student. Recommendation from Relief Society ward president required; also certificate of health from dector. L, D. S. Hospital Course: 3-year course. Ages: 19 to 30. Two years' high school education required. Allowance monthly as follows: First year, $8; second year, $9; third year, $10, Dee Hospital Course: Requirements parallel those of L. D. S. Hospital. Dee Hospital District comprises the following stakes: Curlew, Box Elder, Weber, Ogden, North Weber, and Morgan. Salt Lake County Hospital Course: 3-year course. Ages: 19 to 31. One year's high school education required. Monthly allowance of $15 during entire course. MATERNITY WELFARE WORK President Williams reported that the General Board, in connection with the Presiding Bishopric, since the October conference, has been considering plans for the introduction in the Relief Society of a maternity welfare work, and ways and means of financing and carrying forward such work. Suggestions and recommendations were finally made to the First Presidency, which were approved by them. Their recommendations have been embodied in a letter which is sent by the General Board to the Relief Society stake presidents of the Church, asking for the support of the Relief Society in inaugurating this movement, and asking the local Relief Society to turn the interest on the wheat money, from July, 1919. To the General Board, to finance this movement, and to transfer the wheat fund, where it has not already been done, from the 304 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE GENERAL SECRETARY'S OFFICE 5,_ a MAGAZINE MANAGER'S OFFICE GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 305 wards to the Presiding Bishop's Office. The letter was read by the General Secretary, and is as follows: "April 4, 1922. "To Relief Society Stake Presidents. "Dear Sisters: At the October, 1921, Relief Society Conference (General Officers' Meeting) with the approval and consent of the First Presidency of the Church, the General Board of Relief Society presented for the consideration of the stake officers assembled, the matter of inaugurating a movement in the interest of maternity and motherhood throughout the Church, and the proposition of having the interest on the Relief Society Wheat Fund, in all the wards of the Church, turned over to the General Board to be used in the interest of the movement. "President Williams, at this time, called attention to the fact that the expense connected with childbirth today is so great that many young couples are compelled to begin the rearing of families by going into debt; also, that in many rural districts, prospective mothers are often denied the opportunity of having proper advice or instruction, or even proper care at these critical times. "Tt was explained further that the idea of the General Board would be to proceed slowly and carefully in the matter, but with the hope that ultimately the plan might include the establishment of maternity homes or cottages in some of the larger centers, and. Some form of maternity nursing service in the rural communities, including maternity centers. The stake representatives present, heartily favored a movement in this interest, and recounted the great need in the various communities for just such help as this would supply.; "The Stake Presidents were asked to think the matter over, but take no action until further notice. "The plan of inaugurating and establishing this work and of using the interest on the wheat money from and after July, 1919, has been carefully considered and approved by the First Presidency and the Presiding Bishopric, and they have authorized us to present for your consideration, the proposition that the interest on all the Relief Society wheat funds, both the funds held in the Presiding Bishop's Office and the funds held in the ward Relief Societies, be turned over to the General Board to be used for the purpose of carrying out this beneficent and worthy movement. "Tt is contemplated that this work will be carried forward in the various communities by the General Board, assisted by the local Relief Society officers, and it is hoped by the General Board that, in connection with this work, the Relief Society will be 306 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 7 able to cooperate with the State and Federal Government in carrying out the provisions of the recently enacted maternity bill. "The First Presidency have also authorized us to recommend for your consideration the proposition that the wheat funds of the entire Church, not already so placed, be deposited in the office of the Presiding Bishopric; the interest thereon to be delivered to the General Board for the maternity movement. "Inasmuch as the wheat fund itself is a permanent wheat trust fund to 'be guarded sacredly and held intact, under the jurisdiction of the First Presidency, and inasmuch as it is not available for local use, it would seem advisable and desirable to have the scattered wheat accounts all placed in a central fund in the Presiding Bishop's Office. The principal would, of course, remain intact, and each ward would be credited with the amount deposited and hold a receipt for the same. If at any time, in the opinion of the First Presidency, it would seem desirable to return these funds to the various wards, the receipts held by the ward presidents would promply be honored, and the transfer could readily be made. "Such a plan would be much simpler and more expedient in the end. It would insure protection to the fund and would eliminate the element of insecurity of this fund, which some communities have felt because of uncertain financial conditions. It would likewise prevent the possibility of losing sight of the fact that the fund is a trust fund and remove the danger of having it dissipated by using it for miscellaneous purposes. It would also facilitate business transactions in connection with the proposed new use of the interest. "In carrying forward the plan, the General Authorities have decided to call in all wheat receipts that have been issued by the Presiding Bishopric for wheat deposits, and in lieu thereof, issue a receipt in dollars, based on 3 cents a pound for wheat credit now held in the Bishop's Office. "Tnasmuch as the transaction with the U. S. Government, when the wheat was purchased from the Church for war purposes, was finally consummated in July, 1919, the Presiding Bishopric will compute the interest on the wheat money held in the Bishop's Office from that date at the rate of four per cent. In unison with this plan, it is requested that the interest on the wheat money held in the various wards be computed from the same time. "Tt is recommended that those wards which have wheat on hand at the present time stored in local and other granaries, dispose of this wheat at once and place the funds derived therefrom with their wheat trust fund already on hand, pre- GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 307 paratory to sending the total amount to the Presiding Bishop's Office. "Tn accordance with this plan you are therefore now requested to advise with the president of your stake, and to take steps at once to put this plan into operation. "Definite instructions regarding the details of the procedure in making the final transfer of the funds to the Presiding Bishop's Office and completing the transaction, will be sent to you in the near future. "Thanking you for your early attention to this matter, and your generous cooperation at all times, we are, "Very sincerely yours, "CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, "JENNIE B, KNIGHT, "Louise Y. RosBison, "General Presidency, "National Woman's Relief Society. "Amy Brown LYMAN, "General Secretary, "28 Bishop's Building, "Salt Lake City, Utah." A motion was made by Inez K. Allen of the Utah stake, and seconded by Elizabeth J. Hart of Rigby stake, that the stake cfficers indorse this movement, and carry out the recommendations to the letter. The motion was carried unanimously. The Relief Society visitors were invited by Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter, to visit the clothing workshop and storehouse of the five Salt Lake City stakes where splendid work is being done in collecting, sewing and distributing clothing. The meeting was brought to a close by the congregation singing "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet" after which the benediction was pronounced by Elizabeth C. Crismon. OFFICERS' MEETING AFTERNOON SESSION The first number of the afternoon session was a solo, "My Faith in Thee," by Robert Williams. The opening prayer was offered by President Mildred Harvey of Lethbridge stake. A pleasing duet, "Rock of Ages," was rendered by two children, Lucile Brewerton and Sherman Burt. Raymond Williams then sang, "It's a long way back to mother's knee." 308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ENSIGN STAKE DEMONSTRATES TEACHING Under the direction of Mrs. Elise B. Alder, president, the Ensign stake gave a demonstration of Relief Society teaching. The demonstration consisted of four domestic scenes depicting different home conditions. These homes were all visited by Relief Society teachers and points of ineffective and meritorious teaching were brought out. The scenes in their order were: (1) Mistaken Ideas of Teaching. (2) Discouraging Motherhood. (3) Encouraging Motherhood. (4) Ideal Teaching. The parts were well acted, and the lessons, which the demonstration aimed to teach, were clearly brought out. The conversation was well written and all of the characters were portrayed with a great deal of skill. By clever exageration, the idea was made plain and emphatic that gossiping and discussing physical ailments (especially to the sick) are not desirable elements in teaching. By two contrasting scenes and conversations, an effective picture was given of the unhappiness that can be created by Relief Society teachers who discourage motherhood and of the courage and strength that they. Can impart by encouraging motherhood. The last scene showed two skillful and tactful teachers, arousing the interest of a club woman in Relief Society and in her neglected religion. Following the demonstration, Counselor Jennie B. Knight led a discussion on Relief Society teaching. She emphasized the features of the demonstration stating that the teacher in order to be successful, must go about her work with earnestness and prayerfulness, must. Have a message to take to the families, and must be tactful and skillful in meeting women indifferent to Relief Society work. In reply to questions raised, Sister Knight advised that where non-L. D. S. Homes are to be visited, that the ward presidents select some one special to make such visits. DISCUSSION OF SOCIAL SERVICE TOPICS President Clarissa S. Williams then opened the discussion of Social Service topics. She explained the advisability of individuals contributing to some organized agency, rather than attempting to help a family by distributing relief themselves. A, Relief Agency is trained to make investigations, is in close cooperation with hospitals, employment agencies, and is aware of all existing social conditions, all of which makes the service of an agency more helpful to a family than the service of an individual. She urged the sisters to contribute to the Relief Society rather than to spend their funds on individual families. Responsibility of Relatives: Mrs. Amy W. Evans, of the GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 309 General Board, spoke of the responsibility of members of a family itself, for its old or dependent members. The first responsibility of a dependent person does not belong to the church or county but to the relatives of those in need. This has been recognized by the state and Mrs. Evans quoted the state law, which declares that parents, brothers, sisters, grand-parents, and grand children are liable for the support of a dependent person. Before giving relief, the agency interested should investigate thoroughly and see if any of the relatives listed above are able to care for the person in question. Cooperation with Bishops: President Williams urged close cooperation of the Relief Society and Bishops. The Bishops have been instructed to invite the Relief Society officers to meet with them once a month to discuss relief plans for the various families in the ward, and she hoped this is being done. Employment Agency: Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter, of the Genera! Boara, announced the opening of an employment agency in the Relief Society General Office. She asked that employers and employees, both in the city and out of town, register at this bureau and an attempt would be made to place L. D. S. Girls in suitable L. D. S. Homes and in other reputable places of employment. Importance of Investigation: President Inez Knight Allen, of Utah stake, gave an impressive talk on the importance of investigation. Women, she said, are all endowed with a certain amount of inquisitiveness which could be put to very good advantage in making thorough investigations. She said that merely administering relief without learning of the true situation is like giving paragoric to a crying baby without trying to determine its ailment. She told of one widow who lived in a wretched home and the first impulse of the visitor was to move her to a different location. A long and thorough investigation showed that this would be an unwise step as it would remove this woman from her only means of earning a livelihood?picking fruit and doing housework for friends who did not object to having the children with her at her work. After the bishop and relatives had been consulted it was decided to build a small home for her on her property. The family is now comfortable but a serious blunder could have been made if the investigation and plans had been: hasty or superficial. Assistance to Transients: General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman, pointed out a mistake often made by people giving relief and sending transients from one place to another. The only justification for sending a dependent person to another place 310 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is that there is an assurance of family care or employment at the destination. This should be secured by letter or wire by the agency giving the assistance. Mrs. Lyman also explained that it was often detrimental to feed or give money to men going from deor to door. Frequently these men are refusing to work to support their families and the very act of assisting such a man is really contributing to his delinquency. Child Placing: The Relief Society has been asked, Mrs. Lyman explained, to act as an agency to place children without homes. Where children are left orphans or where, because of disrupted homes, children are left without proper parental care, it sometimes is advisable to find new homes for these children. If the ward presidents learn of families who would like to adopt children, or if they discover children that should be placed out for adoption, they should correspond with the General Secretary who is prepared to make the necessary and proper arrangements. It is considered a good plan, and it has been the policy of the Relief Society office in the past, where a child is placed out for adoption, for the child to be placed with the foster parents for a period of one year, in order to determine if the home is the proper one for the child, and if the child is suitable to the home, before the adoption is made legal. STANDARD PRICE FOR QUILTING Counselor Louise Y. Robison reported the following recommendations of the General Board with regard to quilting: That the minimum price for tying quilts be $1.25; minimum price for quilting soft outing flannel quilts, where 'the strips are merely sewed together, $2.00; minimum price for quilting piece quilts, $3.00. That for complicated designs and fancy quilts, the price be raised according to the amount of labor required in doing the work; for joining strips together for comforters or for linings, minimum price, 25 cents. After singing "God be with you till we meet again," the benediction was pronounced by Sarah M. McLelland, of the General Board. GENERAL SESSION MORNING MEETING PRESIDENT CLARISSA WILLIAMS It gives me a peculiar feeling, Sisters, to stand and face such a large audience of intelligent women? women who are GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 311 giving the best of their lives for the good of humanity, and I sincerely crave an interest in your faith and prayers. I desire the blessings of my heavenly Father to be with me that I may be an instrument and a help to you in your labors. It is just one year since the General Board was reorganized and it has been a very busy year. We have endeavored to put self entirely aside, and to work for what we consider to be the best good of this great Relief Society organization. We have endeavored to follow in the footsteps of our beloved leaders who have passed on and to carry forward the work in a manner which would be pleasing to them as well as pleasing to our heavenly Father. We have also endeavored to keep pace with the advancement which is going on continually in the world. We know that the Latter-day Saints have always stood for advancement; they have never gone backward, but have gone steadily onward, regardless of rebuffs or trials, with the glorious sun as their goal. So we desire the Relief Society to go forward, and are endeavoring to bring this about. We feel that during the past year, or the past six months, some advancement has been made. Our report shows that we have now, gone beyond the goal we had set of securing 50,000 members; we have now 52,362 enrolled members in the Relief Society. In eighty years of work, with still other women's organizations in the Church, we feel that we have done fairly well. I believe I have the reputation of setting my stakes very high. I think I shall never feel perfectly satisfied until every married woman in the Church is enrolled as a member of the Relief Society. I believe the Relief Society is the proper place for the married women in the Church, whether they are old or young.. Now, I have told this story many times that I am going to tell you now, but I love to tell it. I had the great privilege of visiting one of the stakes of Zion with President Francis M. Lyman, and in an address which he gave during the conference, he told them that he considered that they were not in the line of their duty unless they had all their married women enrolled as members of the organization. The stake president made a report of the work. She said she had heard President Lyman express himself that way before, and she wanted to report that in three or four wards in her stake every married woman in those wards were members, except one young woman who had only been married two or three months and when the sisters visited her she said: "Well, I am married, of course, but I think I am rather too young to join the Relief Society." The sisters told her of the goal they were seeking to reach, and she promised that she would investigate Relief Society work and would eventually become a 312 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE member. I agreed fully with President Lyman; I was delighted to hear him express himself in that way. Not only have we reached more than 50,000 members but we have increased in the number of stakes and wards. Eleven reorganizations have been made; the reports tell us in various ways that the work is moving on rapidly. Some of the work that our stakes are coing would make you open your eyes in astonishment, and we are going to give you the opportunity of hearing some of the wonderful things that are being accomplished by the Relief Society in the stakes and missions. I think we should endeavor to increase our average attendance, which is very low. It is now barely a third of the enrolled membership, but I believe that by proper missionary work and by making our meetings so interesting that each individual will feel that she cannot remain away without missing something very vital, we will be able to increase our average attendance, and IJ hope truly that will be the case. Since the first of August, the members of the General Board have visited all the stakes of the Church, excepting Juarez, and four of the missions. The members have also visited ward conferences and meetings, wherever the opportunity has been afforded. The ward work is especially interesting and illuminating, because it is right in the little room where the ward organization meets that the real work of the Relief Society is carried out. We have no special message to give to you, dear sisters, except the message that this great trust which the Prophet Joseph Smith gave to women eighty years ago, has been a great blessing, not only to the Relief Society women but to the communities in which they have lived. Through our organization the gospel has been preached, the needy have been looked after, the sick have been comforted, the downhearted have been cheered, a message of love and ofblessing has ever emanated from Relief Society workers. There should be no place in the hearts of women who have received this great heritage, for jealousy, or bickering, or faultfinding. We should hold ourselves aloof from every influence of that kind. It is very easy for us to find fault, but we should be too proud; we should feel that it is beneath us to find fault with those about us. We do not understand thoroughly the conditions which surround others and rather than find fault with them we should seek to love and help and encourage them. I think the greatest thing in the world is love. Our beloved president Emmeline B. Wells has told that to you from this rostrum over and over again?and it is true. The greatest thing in the world is love. And if we keep that always in our hearts, and give it as a message to those about us, we will be blessed and will 'be instruments in blessing those with whom we associate, GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 313 My sincere prayer, my dear sisters, for you and for us is that we may always enjoy the spirit of our heavenly Father, that we may be blessed in our labors, and that joy may ever be ours. MRS. FLORENCE M. KNIGHT President, Western States Mission Relief Societies I assure you that it is a great pleasure for me to attend this conference, and partake of the spirit which accompanies these meetings, and also to report to you the work of the Relief Society of the Western States mission. We have at the present time 17 organizations, 4 in Wyoming, 2 in Nebraska, 9 in Colorado, and 2 in New Mexico, with prospects of 2 more in Nebraska in the near future, and one at least in South Dakota. In all of these societies, with the exception of one, we have the local members serving as officers. In every organized branch there has been more or less suffering during the winter due to the lack of employment, but the women of the Relief Society have united in an effort to extend relief and constructive help. Following the great flood in Pueblo last year, when 172 blocks were ruined, and 678 houses destroyed, making thousands of people homeless, the Relief Society donated money and clothing and assisted in finding employment for those out of work. Practically every L. D. S. Family in Pueblo today is self-supporting. This branch has also assisted the Church presidency to raise mony to build an addition to the Church. This will provide a room for the Relief Society for a meeting room and work purposes." In one of our Societies the niembers heard that there were two missionaries who would have to go home on account of financial distress. They immediately arranged for an entertainment, and raised enough money to enable the elders to stay and fill their missions. In another organization the sisters wanted a new church; they held an entertainment and raised $400, and that church will soon be completed. It is not possible to mention the features of the work of each branch, but I feel that I must say a word about the work of the Society in Denver. The Relief Society women there have not only helped the poor in this branch, of which there have been many, due to financial distress and unemployment, but they have helped the branches of North Dakota, South Dakota, Western Nebraska, and Wyoming, to care for the unemployed and needy among L. D. S. Families in these districts. In all of our organizations we are following the outlines furnished by the General Board. In our societies we have women, many of them young mothers, who are not of our faith, but they 314 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE enjoy the meetings and speak very highly of them, mentioning especially the good spirit which prevails. The lady missionaries and elders who attend our meetings add very much to the interest and success of the work. All the Relief Societies throughout the mission celebrated the 17th of March in a fitting manner with special programs. It is my purpose to visit all the Societies as soon as I can after this conference, and to carry to them the good spirit which we have enjoyed, and the valuable instructions which have been given to us. MRS. ANNA B. IVERSON President of the Relief Societies of the Northwestern States Mission We have seventeen branches in the Northwestern States Mission, with the prospect of two more in the near future, one at Salem, and one at Eugene, Oregon. The financial depression, of course, has affected our mission as well as other parts of the world. The ship building has been stopped, the lumber and logging camps have been closed, and this has thrown thousands of men out of enployment. However, the people are striving to live their religion just the same. Some of the people have moved away to obtain employment, and therefore many of the branches have been depleted. The sisters of the Relief Society have done very well in assisting those unable to care for themselves. They have assisted in caring for little children, providing clothing for them, and have done much commendable work. I think I could do no better than read to you a portion of a letter that I received this morning from the president of the Spokane Branch. She says: "At a banquet given at the Methodist Church to all ladies' religious organizations of this city, who met for the purpose of discussing the many phases of work for women, I was invited to express my ideas concerning our work in the Relief Society. I related how the Relief Society was first organized, by whom, and for what purpose, and how it had grown from a few to many thousands of members, scattered in all parts of the earth. I also presented to the president, the Relief Society Magazine containing details of the reorganization of the Relief Society in 1921. At the close of my remarks I quoted, and upon request, presented the chairman with a copy of our song 'Have I done any good?' Just a month previous to this banquet, a prominent member of the Ministerial Association of the United States gave several lectures in this church, berating in a most untruthful and GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 315 shameful manner, our Church. The courtesy shown me proves that not all people are led away by the untruthfulness of others. Later, at the Spokane Home Products Exhibition, where thousands of people were received, another sister and I were invited to act as hostesses for one day. By such opportunities which are opened to us we feel that much prejudice is being allayed and the influence of truth is being forwarded." The average attendance at the Spokane branch is 90 per cent. One drawback we have in the Northwestern States Mission is the poor meeting houses in many places. Spokane has a new church and it is astonishing the progress which has been made since they have been meeting in a good chapel, which is one of the best in the mission. We are in hopes of being able to provide better meeting houses throughout the mission as many of the Saints meet in inconvenient and undesirable places. Recently a Relief Society convention was held in Seattle. East Seattle, West Seattle, Olympia, Tacoma, Bellingham, Everett and Vancouver were represented. It was the first convention we had held, and we followed the outline as given by the General Board. The topics were discussed and the papers were indeed excellent. This experiment has proved to me that we are able to do convention work with excellent results, and we feel certain it is going to give the Relief Society work a new impetus in the Northwestern States. We expect to hold another convention in the eastern part of the mission in the near future. In Portland we are cooperating successfully with the Social Welfare Bureau. President Iverson has asked the secretary of that orgaization to refer all L. D. S. Families and individuals in distress to the mission headquarters. - COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT I know that you are here with a desire to learn something which you can take to your homes, live in your daily lives, and help you to be better women, and I sincerely ask that the Spirit of the Lord may attend me as it has attended those who have spoken previously. I thought when our beloved President Williams was addressing you that if I could only have that sweet spirit which she always has that I would not occupy your time in vain. The reason that you, as Relief Society workers, have accomplished so much work in the past is because of the loyalty that you have in your hearts, to carry out the admonition which we find in the Doctrine and Covenants, which says: "Prepare ye the way of 316 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the Lord;" make his paths straight. (Isaiah 40: 3.) We have an ideal in our lives to live up to. It is that of eternal salvation? preparing our hearts and our minds and even this whole world, for the return of our beloved Savior, Jesus Christ. I would like to say that we have every reason, as a people, to rejoice in our opportunities. Not long ago it was my privilege to listen to a lecture by an eminent doctor and traveler, and he pictured to that gathering the distress he witnessed in the countries of Europe. He said that the people were not only distressed, because of the lack of physical necessities, but that peace and good will had been taken from the earth. People do not trust one another; they have no faith in one another; their hearts are discouraged, and their outlook is dark. While walking through the University of Berlin a man shook his head and remarked to this eminent doctor: "We have proved ourselves to be no better than the heathen. Those who have means are living a life of abandonment and indifference, and those without means are suffering for want of necessities." When he said that there is no peace I thought to myself, little does he realize that he gives evidence that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God. For do we not find in the Doctrine and Covenants that the hour is nigh at hand when peace shall be taken from the earth? I feel sad to know of these conditions, but I feel glad to know that he was bearing this testimony. Of course, we are sad and sorrowful to know that these people are suffering, but even more sad that they are refusing the gospel of Jesus Christ, which would bring joy and happiness if they would only listen. I think it is our mission to scatter sunshine and cheer and joy and to promote faith and trust. Our beloved Prophet Joseph as he was being led to Carthage jail, said, "I go as a lamb to the slaughter, but I am as calm as a summer morning; I have a conscience void of offense toward God." What could be more beautiful that to be as calm as a summer morning when sorrow comes to us, and when we see distress on every hand. This little incident may explain how we can get this confidence. A woman said that when she was a little child she attended a Sunday School class where the teacher talked regarding patriarchal blessings. The child went to her grandfather's home on her way from Sunday School and asked for a patriarchal blessing. He smiled because the little girl was his own granddaughter and said, "I will give you a blessing right now." One of the sentences which always puzzled her, but afterwards came to her as a great comfort, was that which said: "In thy day, men's hearts shall fail them, but thy heart shall fail thee not, trusting in the Lord." This is an anchor we have, that in these days GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 317 when men's hearts fail them, that ours shall fail us not if we trust in the Lord. I am reminded of a little poem, which impressed me very much: Take what God gives, O heart of mine, And build your house of happiness. Perchance some have been given more; But many have been given less. The treasure lying at your feet, Whose value you but faintly guess, Another bui'der, looking on, Would barter heaven to possess. Have you found work that you can do? Is there a heart that loves you best? Is there a spot somewhere called home Where, spent and worn, your soul may rest? A friendly tree? A book? A song? A dog that loves your hands' caress? A store of health to meet life's needs? Oh, build your house of happiness! Trust not tomorrow's dawn to bring The dreamed of joy for which you wait; You have enough of pleasant things To house your soul in goodly state; Tomorrow, Time's relentless stream May bear what now you have away; Take what God gives, O heart, and build Your house of happiness today! There are women in this audience who have come in sleighs over snow thirty feet deep, and many who have come through storms and sleet and snow to attend this conference. Where there is such loyalty to duty, surely there will be joy and satisfaction and compensation. MRS. EVELYN LYMAN President Union Stake Relief Society In our stake we have divided the responsibility of the officers, both in the stake and in the wards. In our stake officers' meeting we have been studying the Syllabus on social service work, and we are trying to apply the work. In our union meetings about a year ago we had an attendance of 12 or 14, while now we have from 50 to 60. We visit our wards once every three months. Our teachers are doing splendid work. They are discussing in the homes the topics that are outlined by the General Board. We hold a ward conference in each association once a year, and we have noticed that our Relief Society meetings and also our 318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Sacrament meetings, are much better attended, as a result. We are taking nearly 100 per cent of the Magazine in our stake. We have sent to the General Board for 10 subscriptions to be placed in non-members' homes, who are investigating "Mormonism." Last year we gave a Magazine party for the purpose of increasing our Magazine subscriptions. In following up our social service work we held a clinic where 43 children were operated upon. We arranged this in the months of July and August and had all these children in splendid health to begin their school work in September. By conducting this clinic we saved the people about $80. In LeGrande, on the North Side, meetings were held in the homes of the members, and they felt as if they needed a Relief Society hall. A bazaar was held and $600 was raised to assist with its erection. Due to our. Location, it' is almost impossible for us to do temple work, so. We try to send to the temple each year some money for this purpose. Last year we raised $258. The stake board has collected cast-off clothing, remodeled it, and taken it into the wards and into union meeting, to show what useful things can be made out of discarded clothes. This has helped people in moderate circumstantes to dress their children better. We have placed in our city library the "Book of Mormon," "Doctrine and Covenants," the "Pearl of Great Price," and one yearly subscription to the Magazine. For our annual day this year, we cooperated with the Seventies in giving an entertainment for the missionary cause, and we cleared and turned over to the Seventies $200 for the missionary work. We try to emphasize some special activity every quarter. For the next three months, April, May, and June, we have requested that all Relief Society workers beautify their homes and yards, and also the yards around our churches. MRS. VEROKA G. NASH President Franklin Stake Relief Society I think in our stake the conditions at present are better than they have ever been before. I feel that our sisters are awakening to the great opportunities and privileges given to them in our Relief Society. We now have more of our young mothers attending our meetings than we have ever had before. I believe they have reached the stage where they can see that the Relief Society GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 319 is not intended for their older sisters only, and that it is not alone for the bearing of testimony and making of quilts, but that it is a great educational opportunity. Our wards have been doing a great 'deal of "shut-in" work. They have taken their meetings and sometimes refreshments to the homes of those unable to meet with them?the aged, the poor, and those unable to get out, especially during the winter months. The spirit of love and unity that has been in our board and has attended us in our work is remarkable. Our teachers are humble and striving to do the best they can and are trying to improve. We have a teachers' department in our union meeting and there we have a supervisor who presents the topics. We do not feel that the teachers must go with this message and with nothing else, but that they should be imbued with the Spirit of God and they should use their best judgment to give in each home that which is needed. Our wards during the last winter have labored very diligently in trying to care for those in need and out of employment. In order to stimulate Magazine subscriptions we offered as a prize to the ward receiving the highest number of subscripions, a bound volume of the current Magazine. As an inducement to our young mothers to attend meetings, we have asked each ward to establish a kindergarten or nursery and to ask the Bee Hive girls to care for the children during the meeting. We have had eleven Relief Society excursions to the temple, one from the stake and one from each ward. Something like 1,000 days have been spent in this work. We are introducing into our stake a reading course, prescribing a certain number of Church books, a certain amount of educational reading, and selected fiction. A report of this reading will be called for by the teachers. Our stake sent 1,700 pounds of clothing to the Armenians. We have organized in our county an association known as the Anti-Tuberculosis Association. Last year the Fianklin and Oneida Stake Relief Societies worked with this association, selling Christmas seals, and through our efforts succeeded in going over the top with our work and were therefore allowed to keep one-fourth of the funds received for the promotion of our own health work, with which we were able to obtain two nurses for community work. We were also able to institute in our schools the crusade work in the interest of the health of the children. By cooperating with the parent-teachers association and our county school superintendent, we have arranged in our city a free 320 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE dental clinic where our children may go and have their teeth examined and treated. I feel that until we are able to handle our charity work more properly and intelligently, to eliminate some of the undesirable conditions and influences which produce suffering and poverty, and to look after' the needs of the people in the prime of life so as to save them and their families from future distress and suffering, our work will not be the success we so much desire. MRS, MAMIE CLARK President Maricopa Stake Relief Society I appreciate the privilege of attending this conference. Maricopa stake is so far away that we are not always able to send a representative. Maricopa Stake Relief Society is doing better work, more efficient work than ever before. We are following very carefully the lessons that are outlined and the sisters appreciate and enjoy them more than ever before. We are holding our conferences in the wards on Sunday afternoons in connection with the Sacrament meetings. We feel that this is a good opportunity to put the Relief Society work before the public, and we also feel that the brethren need correct information of the Relief Society work. We have ten wards in our stake and these wards are all organized and in good running order. We visit the wards once a month with the exception of one small ward up in the mountains, that is over a hundred miles away. We recently put on a contest with the nearby wards for average attendance and new membership and the losing ward was required to entertain; and they certainly did entertain royally and with the best of feelings. Our Papago ward has not been doing the work so well this year as before. Owing to the financial conditions that have come to our country, the Indian women were compelled to pick cotton early in the fall and they felt that they could not give a whole day to Relief Society work. So they have been holding one meeting a month. On Sunday. This spring there is a great deal of sickness among these people. And they are still holding but one meeting a month. We feel that we are doing a splendid work along the line of family welfare. Our teachers have been relieved of gathering charity funds for our Relief Society, and instead their time is taken up with delivering worth-while instructions into the homes, from the organization, and messages from the stake president. They are prepared on a subject which thev discuss in the homes. We have our charity dav on the 15th of October. This day is set apart for the purpose of collecting funds and every home in our GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 321 ) stake is visited by a member of the Relief Society, sometimes accompanied by a member of the priesthood. On this day every ward holds a bazaar and in connection with this we have what we call a rummage sale. We gather up all the cast-off clothing, and this the sisters buy to make over for the children, and in this way save a great deal, as the clothes are sold for a trifle. This is a great help to people who cannot afford to buy new matetial. This also helps our Indian association very much. We feel that our success along this line is due to the hearty cooperation received from the stake presidency and bishops throughout the stake. In connection with the Mesa Welfare League last fall we served soup to over 200 school children every day. This spring we are delivering bread and quantities of milk at the noon hour for these children. Our stake is doing many things, but I know you want to hear from others, and | feel and hope and pray that, as time goes on, and we see the needs of humanity, that our hearts will swell, and that we will be able to meet these needs in the right manner. MRS, AMY BROWN LYMAN 7 I have read an article recently, written by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, the president of Columbia University, in which he sets forth the idea that the people of the world today are given over to adolatry, and he defines this idolatry as the worship of clothes, money, notoriety, and the worshiping of themselves. He thinks that it is time to expound in thunderous tones the message of Paul on Mars Hill when he said to the people there: "Whom therefore ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto unto you." Dr. Butler thinks there will be no cure for the world's ills until faith in God is restored and made supreme. I have also read something recently which has impressed me very much, in a book by Mr. Babson, the great financier, in which he emphasizes the importance of a religious and spiritual life. He says it is the greatest protection from evil and the greatest force for good in existence today. Recently he was visiting in South America, in Argentina, and while there was a guest of the president of the Republic. After dinner one day, they were sitting on a sun porch, talking, and the president of Argentina said to him: "I have been wondering how it is that South America is so far behind North America. We were settled first, our country is larger, we have greater natural resources: we have mines and great rivers, and water power that rivals Niagara; how is it that North America has been so much ahead of South America all these years?" Mr. Babson, being a guest, reversed this 322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE question and asked it of the president. The president answered: "Tn thinking the matter over, I have decided this: South America was settled by Spaniards who came in search for gold; North America was settled by the Pilgrim Fathers who came in search of God." I think that it is probably not necessary to call to the attention of Relief Society women the importance of the religious life, because if there is a group of women anywhere who strive to live the religious life and to live the spiritual life, it is the group made up of Relief Society women. I think, however, that it would be a good thing for us to take stock occasionally to see how nearly our lives conform to the teachings of the Savior and of the Prophet Joseph Smith. We are sometimes inclined to think that if we go to Church and testify vigorously of the blessings that we receive, that that is all that is necessary, but there are a great many things that are fundamental things to a spiritual life and we cannot reach the highest development unless we live up to the standards of the gospel set for us by the Savior. The Savior says: "I have given you the law and commandments of my Father, that you shall believe in me, and that you shall repent of your sins, and come unto me with a broken heart and a contrite spirit * * * Except ye shall keep my commandments which I have commanded you at Ye have heard that is was said by them of old time: Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment; but I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment." Are we ever unrighteously angry at a brother? The Savior says: "Blessed are the merciful; for they shall obtain mercy." Are we all merciful? "And behold it is written also, that thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thy enemy; but behold I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them who despitefully use you and persecute you." In another place he says, "Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and thieves break through and steal, but lay up for yourself treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal." In other words. Christ would have us worship not the worldly things, but worship the living God. The Savior says, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, judge not that ye be not judged, for with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again. And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine this time, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 323 own eye? Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the mote out of thine eye; and, behold, a beam is in thine own eye? Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou see clearly to cast the mote out of thy brother's eye." How many of us live up to this doctrine? It is a very hard thing for us not to judge other people. I think our own dear president, Sister Williams, sets us an excellent example. She is slow to judge and willing to forgive the faults and failings of others. In our own Church our leaders have set up certain standards for us, two or three which I am going to name. We are asked to keep the Sabbath day holy. How many of us do this? Would your standards permit of going to a picture show or allowing your children to go to a picture show on the Sabbath day? Are we all living up to the Word of Wisdom? Are we making excuses that because we have this or that ailment, we must break the Word of Wisdom? What about tithing? Do we believe in it, first of all, and are we supporting our husbands and training our children to be tithe payers? What are our standards with regard to the fast day observance? Are we living up to this law? Another thing I want to mention is prayer. What are our standards for prayer? I think most of us pray secretly, but many of us neglect our family prayers. While visiting a mission recently, I met a young man who said: "We did not have family prayers at home, and since I have come out into the mission field I have had companions from home where family prayers were observed, and they know how to pray. IJ would give anything if my parents had stood strongly for this one thing. When I go home I think I will take it up with my parents, and see if we can establish regular family prayers." If we expect to have a good spiritual life we must keep the commandments of God, for he has so informed us. May the Lord bless us and help us to live up to the standards of the gospel. GENERAL SESSION AFTERNOON MEETING COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON There is quite an art in thinking good things. Emerson says: "We emit evil or good with every breath," and we can only prepare to emit good with every breath by proper thinking. The Bible tells us, "As he (a man) thinketh in his heart, so is 324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE he." (Prov. 23:6, 7.) Our lives, what we are today, have resulted from what we have thought in the past years, and our future lives will be the result of our thoughts of today. If we were building a material home, we would be most careful to have the material placed in that home the very best that we could afford. We would have all of the timbers straight and free from knots, and we would see that the furnishings were free from blemishes. How much more important it is when we are building our spiritual lives that the thoughts that we entertain are of the highest and most ennobling character. The women who have accomplished things in the Relief Society must be women who have their minds always set on a very high goal. Those who work for the highest in life cannot afford to entertain any thoughts but those that are the most elevating. You know it is attributed to women that they make a good deal of trivial things, that they complain of physical ills. And hold on to any little affliction of the body very tenaciously. It has been said by one writer that women's conversation and thought could be defined by three D's, disease, dress, and domestic affairs. Now, I am sure that the women who have made these excellent reports today must be women whose thoughts are of a very high order. We sometimes feel that it is difficult for us to control our thoughts, that sometimes hasty speech will be ours, or sometimes that we say things without meaning them, and we often justify ourselves by saying, "Well, they know we didn't mean that." This is no excuse, of course, and it does not tend to build up our character. If we would get in the habit of committing to memory some of the splendid scriptural sayings that we read all too lightly; if we would remember and repeat frequently such poems as "School thy feelings," by President Penrose, it would set our minds to thinking along the lines that would develop us and help us to be splendid leaders in Zion, When Sister Iverson was making her report this morning and reading the letter from the president who had the opportunity of speaking of our work before the clubs of a large city, the thought occurred to me, we do not know, any of us, when the opportunity is coming to speak a good word for our religion. You know, the gospel is so high in its ideals that we should not represent it unless we have high ideals. I felt today, in listening to the excellent subjects that have been mentioned in the little catechism that Sister Lyman gave us, that we will have higher ideals and we will look to the smaller things, in order that we may accomplish the big things in our glorious gospel. We all feel and know that this is the Church and kingdom of GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 325 God. We have all had experiences and testimonies so that we know beyond a doubt that this is so. In looking over the atidience I see our excellent, aged sisters, who have accomplished many things. If we could only emulate their lives, so that in our old age we might have that same sweet peace and calm which has come to them through right living and right thinking, we certainly would not have lived in vain. May this be our lot, May we live above the ordinary things of life, because we have more than the ordinary things given unto us. MRS. AUGUSTA W. GRANT This morning I heard our president say that she would like to have the Relief Society include every married woman in the Church. I was included even in my 'teens, before I was a married woman. In the little town where I lived I joined the Relief Society, and I have held my membership ever since. While my work has been chiefly with the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, I have always felt a great interest in the work of the Relief Society, and I am always willing to do all I can in my ward to assist. At Ocean Park I was asked to speak at the 17th of March Anniversary Celebration. There were a number of things related there about the first organization. As we all know, it was the first organization among women, and it was effected by Joseph Smith, the Prophet. Even in this first meeting the women were granted their rights. It was proposed that the society be. Called the Benevolent Society, but the women did not exactly like this name. The Prophet gave them the chance to consider it, and they proposed the name of Relief Society, and finally the women won their point. In all things the men of the Church have been liberal and just to the women, and have granted them rights and privileges for which the women of the world have had to fight. In the matter of suffrage we did not have the struggle that the women of England did, who resorted to militant methods. Even in America the women had a war of words for many years before they gained their rights. L. D. S. Women had suffrage given to them early, long before the women of the nation. I believe if women would go about it in the right way they could secure almost anything. One example of women's influence is that of Harriet Beecher Stowe, whose book dealing with slavery assisted, very materially, in the settlement of that question, and in the ultimate enactment of the Sixteenth amendment. The passage of the Susan B. Anthony suffrage amendment, after many years of struggle, a great monument to the work of 326 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE united womanhood. The passage of the Highteenth Amendment on prohibition was also assisted materially by the persistent efforts of the women throughout the country. We have not finished that fight yet and must go on with it. In Utah there is a fight against the cigarette, and I think if the women are all united on that, at least the women of our own Church. We will accomplish our desires. The fight against tobacco is not entirely in our own Church, but a great many people outside, scientists, physicians, and others, are just as much opposed to the use of tobacco as we are. The other day I read a little article concerning the former president of Stanford University, David Starr Jordan. In giving the requirements for a college president he included among others, that the president must not smoke. I am sorry to say that in this day many of the women are using tobacco. We look upon women as refined and dainty but when they indulge in things like this, they not only lower their own standards, but they lose the respect and admiration of the public. Recently I had occasion to go through one of the finest hotels on the coast, and I saw the ladies of leisure there on Sunday afternoon sitting around in those beautiful corriders reading, writing, sipping tea, and smoking, and I thought to myself: "I wonder if there is any man in the cultured intellectual classes who would really like to see his wife or daughter smoke!" The theme for this conference, it seems to me, has been greatly along spiritual lines, the encouragement to live the lives of Latter-day Saints. The great mjnds of the nation seem to realize the need of spirituality, especially since the war. The other day in the paper I saw a little notice of President Harding speaking to a Bible class, and he emphasized the fact that religion and spirituality are greatly needed at this time. I think we do not read the Bible and Book of Mormon enough. I think the lessons we have had in the different associations on the Bible have been a very great help. Some people do not understand how to read the Bible and the Book of Mormon, and to find the beauties in them. President Young said: "Search the scriptures." We must not only read them, but study them, and search out the good things in them. I heard the late Brother Riter, the last time he spoke. His whole theme was on the Book of Mormon. He said in the last ten or fifteen years he had never failed each year to read the Book of Mormon through. He said that in the Book of Mormon there is not one thought or one word that would offend the purest mind. Our religion is the greatest thing in the world to us, of course, and when I think of the women pioneers, of the hand cart women and others, who helped to establish it, I find many GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 327 things that are an encouragement and a help to me. I think these women should be honored and remembered. Their numbers are growing fewer all the time, and I think that everyone of us, wherever we meet them, should make it a point to respect and honor them, and to gain any information they may have. Such information should be preserved. I heard of a young woman from this city who had been approached by one of the moving picture concerns asking if she would write some of the interesting things from the lives of our people. I was pleased with this idea and I would be glad to see the talent of any of our young people used to bring these things before the people of the world. I read, not many weeks ago, in one of our magazines, an article telling of the forty French women who were taken prisoners by the Germans. The Germans came to a little town and said that it was necessary for something which happened years ago in Alsace-Lorraine to be avenged, and that they should take forty women from the town. They selected the finest and most noted and influential women. They gathered them together, put them in a cattle car, locked them in and started them on their journey. Finally they arrived at the prison camp and were all put together in a bare, dirty room with no conveniences. There was a pump for water and straw 'or beds. They made themselves and their surroundings as clean and wholesome as they could. There was one among them who was a leader. She gathered them all around her and said: "We must take care of ourselves and look after our health and amusement, so that when we are released from here we will not be physical and mental wrecks and be burdens to our families and the community." She found what special gifts they had; one was a teacher, another a musician, one a hospital graduate, and some were specialists in physical culture and recreation. When they had in quired what every one could do, one gentle little women spoke up and said: "You have considered our health, our amusement, our learning, everything but religion. I wonder if we could not have that. Let us pray." While perhaps these women had never been taught to pray, every night when the silent hour of prayer came, they all joined in earnest supplication to their God. I wish to speak about the achievements of the Relief Society. In comparing the first organization which was effected with eighteen women, with the membership of over 52,000 today, we see that great progress has been made. The first money that was contributed to the Relief Society was $5 given by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Others gave $2, and $1, and 50c and one woman gave 12c. I have always been glad that she did not have any more to give, because it shows that even a small amount is acceptable. You have done a great work in saving wheat, and in 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE stimulating temple work. I think the Relief Society is deserving of praise for their activity and interest in temple work. Twenty-five or thirty years ago I resolved that I would endeavor to go to the temple one day a week and I have always tried to go, but sometimes it seems almost impossible. I have noticed, with pleasure, how the numbers of temple workers have constantly increased. Because of the increase in numbers it became necessary to have two sessions a day, and then three, and then four. Besides having more sessions, the number in each company was doubled to care for the many workers. New temples are being built in different parts of the world. California is now desirous of erecting a temple, and I think in time they will have one. The work is growing, and we desire to grow spiritually and to live the lives of Latter-day Saints. We should strive to follow every avenue of work open to us that will lead to this end. DR. GEORGE H. BRIMHALL What is the sweetest word in our religion? To me, the sweetest word in our religion is blessing. How can we get blessings? Only in one way, and that is by living the law upon whch that blessing is predicated. No matter what we get of material or social advantage temporarily, if it comes to us in any other way than through the law of righteousness, it will not prove to be a blessing. I read the other evening the sentiment: "Righteousness cannot be conferred, it must be acquired." And blessings cannot be transferred, they must be earned. If we should have riches, unless they are acquired under the law of righteousness, they would not be a blessing. I remember the case of a man who found $4000 in the forest in Arizona as he followed his sheep. He gathered the coins up and carried them to his camp, and then he tried to find out who lost them. The money was lost by a robber who had stolen it from a cattle syndicate. I asked him, after he told me that he returned the money, and they gave him $200, why he didn't keep it and do good with it. He answered: "I did not dare to keep it, because J felt this thing within me saying, 'Do as you would wish to be done by.' I cannot believe that it would have proved anything less than the opposite to a blessing." And he was right. He is happy, prosperous, and at peace with himself today. Now, what are some of the greatest blessings? I will try to talk to you a little about the three greatest blessings in religious life as I see them. The first is prayer, the privilege of going to my Father when I am happy and exulting; the privilege of going to him when I am bowed down. There is only one way for me to escape humil- GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 329 iation before my Father in my days of distress, and that is by being humble in the days of my prosperity. The scriptures tell us that where there is no vision the people perish. We transpose it. When there is vision, the people prosper. What kind of vision causes the people to prosper? The vision of the leader, but that alone cannot bring prosperity. That vision must be passed along down to the eyes of the people. It will bring no prosperity to me, except as I see the vision, no more than a good word of help coming to a ship would be of any avail to me, if I took no heed, if I were deaf to it, and insisted on going overboard. This organization, as an organization, has demonstrated the value of having vision. O, if we brethren had been as firm and as persistent, and I think, perhaps, as clear in our vision of what the Prophet Brigham Young and his successors saw when they said, "Store up wheat" we would have had financial safety today. The second great blessing in the Church is service?the privilege of serving as an individual, and the privilege of serving as a group. You serve as individuals, and you serve as one of the greatest organizations on the earth. You fulfil the second great commandment and you give evidence of the first great command being obeyed: "Seek ye first the kingdom of God * * * and all other things shall be added."' You do it with the spirit "Father, what woulds't thou have me do?" I stood in a hotel the other night talking with a prominent lawyer of this state, and he said to me: "I was visited the other day by an eminent business man who has been at the head of one of the greatest business concerns of New York, and he told me this: 'Our employers are all instructed that when a man applies for a permanent position, where money is to be handled, to ask him first if he belongs to a church. If he says, yes, then our employer is instructed to look up that man's standing in the church to find out if he is earnest, if he is sincere, if he lives up to his religion. If we find his standing is good, we put him in class A for appointment. If it is medium. We put him in class 'B, if it is poor, we put him down in C. If he says he does not belong to a church, then our employer is instructed to treat him courteously, make some excuse, tell him if he is needed he will be called.' " There we have, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness:" seek God, and then other things come. Teach that to your boys. I heard a man this morning give a most eloquent discourse on sociology?a man who has written books on the subject. This man said to me, "I am going to New York, and I am going to study the financial problems there. I have just come from San 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Francisco, and I asked there among the big business men what credentials I should take to New York, and what they would cal! A first-class credential. They said, 'You get a recommend from the president of the 'Mormon' Church, and you can go anywhere in business circles.' " I then thought of the time when the Prophet Joseph Smith was accosted by a ruffian and was asked: "Your name Smith?" "Ves," "Joseph Smith?" Ves,"? "Here is a bill with your name on it. I don't suppose it is good for anything, but you will redeem it." The story goes that the Prophet put his hand in his pocket and he had just enough money. He said, "Give me the bill. I will redeem any paper that has my name on it." But what hath God wrought? The Prophet of God, looked ' down upon as a renegade financially, threatened with abuse and harm, if he did not settle a $5 note, and now it comes to pass that the business men of the greatest nation on the earth can say, "Tf you want credentials as to business integrity, get them from the president of the 'Mormon' Church." I call that service to the world. We must share the vision with the Prophet, and must also share the service with the Prophet. Our lives must be along the line of his counsel and his advice, and if we share the vision and service, we share the victory. The third greatest blessing in this Church is love. Love for what? The apex of it all is the love of the service that you and I are rendering. Love to pray, love to serve, and love to love the world. I will share the vision. I will share the service, and then I shall share the love. And when I pray, I pray for the spirit of prayer, I pray for service, pray for love, and what do I become? I become a being of gratitude, I become a being of _sympathy reaching out and helping, and I become a being of the utmost happiness through the love of God, his children, and the work I have to do with them. You as individuals, you as an organization, it seems to me, stand in the center of interest in this behalf. Prayer, the service that you are rendering in the home, reaching out, teaching the children to serve, and then love. A boy will say when he is in difficulty: "Do not let my mother know, it would kill her." See where you are on the basis of love. You sit there on the very throne of affection. God bless you in this work. GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 331 PROF, LEVI EDGAR YOUNG My sisters of the Relief Society, your name and your fame has long ago gone beyond the portals of this state. I remember long ago a visit that Susa Young Gates made to a very noted woman, Madame Chaponniere-Chaix, in Geneva, Switzerland. After this visit was over I had the opportunity of hearing Madame Chaponniere-Chaix at a mass meeting in Geneva, Switzerland, speak in her inimitable French on the subject of the work of women in the Republic of Switzerland, and in her address, she reported the visit that had been made by Sister Gates. She then launched out with an explanation of the great work of the "Mormon" women in the relief of the sorrowful, in the relief of those who are in need, and she said that your organization is an ensample of service that very few people in the world have approached either today or in the past. I think this is only one occasion of very very many where your work has been carried, by your sisters, to parts abroad, for others have carried the results of your work. To me the compelling thing about your work and service is the fact that you do not herald it far and wide, but you give yourselves to the welfare of women, children, and men. You help the sick, you go where there is need, you bless the homes where death has come and the only compensation. Is the knowledge that you have served God because you have served one of God's children Now you have had a marvelous history. In some of the wards I have had the privilege of investigating the Relief Society simply for a social study to see how you have done your work, and the work has been marvelous. Some one told Sir Philip Gibbs, not long ago, on his visit to this city, of the work of the Relief Society women, of their desire to serve humanity in alleviating pain and suffering, and he was greatly impressed. I find that in 1852 a company of Methodists and Presbyterians on their way to California to the gold diggings, something like 400 men and women and children in the party, camped on the outskirts of Salt Lake City. I find also a record wherein the Relief Society women of Salt Lake City went down to that pioneer camp to the west of the city, and relieved the suffering of a number of the little children who had severe colds due to the cold in the mountains. The women became angels of mercy to those good Methodists and Presbyterians; angels of mercy for they did not ask what they beljeved. They only asked what they could do to serve. If nothing more than that had ever been done, it would indicate to this world of ours that the "Mormon" wom- 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE en are blessed with great souls, and that they find their lives in helping God's children on the pathway of life. Now, you sisters sometimes wonder if your compensation is going to come. It comes every day. It comes every time you go into a house where children suffer or where death has visited. You find your joy and compensation every day. That is life, that is happiness, for Christ, the Master has told us that the secret of happiness is human service?the love that we bear for one another. Let me tell you this story of the little French woman. One time, during the war, Irvin Cobb was coming through the woods from the French camp to General Pershing's camp. He came to a little shop, as he walked through the woods, and he saw a woman working at the bellows. In the cinders a baby was playing. Irvin Cobb said, then, through his interpreter, "What are you doing?" The woman turned and left her work for a moment?there was a horseshoe on the anvil, and said, "When the war began, this was our little plot of land. My two boys fell at Verdune, and six months ago my husband died in the service, and the only thing left for me was this little anvil, the bellows, and the baby here playing in the cinders. But I determined to do something for France, because I love my people. So I went up to the Commissary Department and asked what I could do, and they said, 'Hammer horseshoes, for we must have them.' So every day I hammer from twenty-five to thirty horseshoes into shape and everyday when the Angelus rings, I put these horseshoes in the sack, take the baby in one arm, the horseshoes in the other, and walk eight miles into Paris, put down the horseshoes at the Commissary, and they give me a little food, and I go back and sleep in the cinders, but at daylight, I am up again, hammering horseshoes into shape." When the war was over, M. Clemenceau called this little woman up and pinned on her breast the great Cross of the Legion of Honor, and said to her, "Woman, it is your work that has won the war." General Foch was standing there and said, "It is woman's work that wins all wars," and there is great truth in that. Now, that little woman's compensation came back to her then, in a way, and it is coming back to her now and to all the women who served, because there was no thought of tomorrow, but only to serve today and to do her duty to God as she understood her duty. That, I say, is life, and therein do you find the happiness of life. So the compensation will come to you, although sometimes it seems a long, long way off. But because your work is so practical and yet so ideal, your future will be great. I want to say to you mothers, there is rising a generation of boys and girls. There is a generation of silk stockings and GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 333 high heeled shoes and low necks. There is a generation of girls ranging from 14 to 18 that are beautiful, that are wonderful, that are your children. It is true that this world is full of allurements of which I do not speak very often. And here is the point I want to leave: mothers, I believe in the rising generation. I believe in the boys and girls that come into my office daily. What is needed, I think, today, is not so much correction of these children as faith in them. Let them see that you do have faith in them, and it will do much to solve the problem. This old world has never been an extremely righteous world in some respects, but the old world has been a wonderfully beautiful world, and there is far more beauty in it than wrong, and I honestly believe there is far more religion in every human heart than there is the opposite of religion. There must be, and that religion of the boy and the girl is inspired with your radiated hope and faith in them to a very great extent. I leave you this thought: Have faith in the boy and the girl of today. I believe we get what we radiate. If I give you hate, I receive hate, and if I radiate love to you, that love will come back from you to me, perhaps, ten fold. It takes the mother to radiate that hope completely. You must always radiate hope, and you must always radiate faith in your children. Radiate faith in the youth of Zion, in the youth of America, in the youth of the world, and I want to tell you that the faith in the beautiful youth will come back, and the world will radiate peace and happiness, and great joy will come to us. I say unto you, he that will find God in his life today serves his fellow men, and the light of God abounds in his heart, and he goes forth as a servant of the Most High. Blessing and receiving blessings as the reward of the just. MRS. ANNIE WELLS CANNON One of our great writers has said that greatness is to walk among the common things of life. I will ask you this afternoon, for the few moments that I stand here, to walk with me among some of these common things, and see if we can learn therefrom some lesson. It makes no difference what our individual opinions may be about a law. If there are on the statutes of our town, our city, our state or our nation, ordinances or laws, they should be observed and respected. They are made not for any individual use, but for the benefit of the whole community. We often hear people ridiculing what they consider the minor laws, but I think that we, as Relief Society women, should see that these minor laws are more strictly heeded and obeyed. I may take you into unpleasant paths in order to illustrate 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the points { would make, and to emphasize the importance of. Obeying these laws, for it is often those who disobey these laws who end their days in the hospitals, or the prisons, or meet with death. The Juvenile Court officers tell me that the delinquency of at least 90 per cent of all the children who come before them, can be traced to the breaking of the curfew law. I hope in every town where Latter-day Saints dwell there is a curfew law, and that we mothers try to see that law is observed. It happened not long ago at one of our branch libraries here in the city that the librarian noticed a little girl with three or four companions who came at 7 o'clock and stayed until the close of the library at 9, and she also noticed that these children did not go home when the library closed. When questioned, the little girl said, "Mama thinks the library is a lovely place for us to go while she goes to the show. We couldn't get in if we went home, because she has the key." 'And so, not long after, the little girl accepted an invitation to go for an automobile ride, and soon after she was a ward of the Juvenile Court, and then of the Industrial School. It is in the night time, mothers, it is in the dark, when the tempter, the evil one, is abroad. Perhaps there is some little boy around the bonfire in the vacant lot using his influence to tempt other little boys and girls in evil ways. Sister Grant spoke of the cigarette evil. Probably it is there that little boys first learn to use the deadly cigarette. I remember once in our Relief Society conference, the late Judge McMaster told us he considered the cigarette the most vicious and deadly thing that comes into a boy's life; that he would not believe a cigarette smoker, and that he was con: vinced that smoking produces liars, thieves, and Jaw breakers. How are we going to help in this law? In talking with the prosecuting attorney he told me that there never was a question on which there has been such a division of opinion among the public, that there are men and women who are so divided on the efficacy of the law and the good of it that it is almost impossible to secure a conviction. Let us create such a sentiment in our communities that this law will be observed and enforced. In the same way we might speak of the prohibition law. One summer, during the vacation time, smallpox appeared in the family of a woman who had the disease as a girl, and she had been left a pitiable sight. It was noticed in the neighborhood, that for some reason, the children stayed home, but no doctor was called and no report was made to the quarantine officers. The husband began working around the neighbornood and soon the disease had broken out in the whole neighborhood. Think of the expense, think of the sorrow, that was the GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 335 fruit of the neglect of this wilful, criminal woman. F know also of three little graves due to the spread of diphtheria by a little boy whose mother allowed him to return to school after he had been home two or three days with a sore throat, and fever. He exposed the whole school and three little boys lie in the cemetery because of that mother's carelessness. Any man or woman should know that a temperature, a rash, or sore throat, means contagion, and should be properly taken care of at once and reported. Why should anyone disobey such a simple law as the law of quarantine? Let us protect our neighbors by obeying strictly, at all times, the law of quarantine. The Chief of Police, Mr. Joseph Burbidge, says that more than half the accidents that occur in autos, and on street cars and on bicycles, are caused through the carelessness and indifference of the public with regard to traffic regulations. While I was talking with him, a little boy was brought into his office, mangled. He had tried to cross Second South Street while the red light was on and had been run into by a street car. He was a messenger boy. When questioned by Mr. Burbidge, he said he knew the light was on, but he was in a hurry and thought he could get across. Many of us are in a hurry, and think we can get across, and then there is some terrible and disastrous result, as in the case of this little fellow. A beautiful, bright, lovely girl lovingly kissed her mother goodbye the other morning and boarded a car for the State University, and as she stepped from the car a harum-skarum young fellow with a crowd of people came driving along, and there was carried home to the mother the dead body of that young woman. Two homes plunged into despair because of the disobedience of minor laws. Are they not of the utmost importance? By setting a better example, or by trying to observe these laws ourselves, we can help to better the conditions in the communities in which we live. STAKE PRESIDENTS' MEETING The meeting for the Relief Society Stake Presidents, or personal representatives, on Saturday, 8th, was held in the parlors at General Headquarters, and consisted principally of a discussion of problems, particularly relating to the work of stake presidents, and the administration of this work in the stakes. President Williams and the other executive officers gave instructions on various topics and answered questions submitted by the delegates.; The opening prayer was offered by Miss Lillian Cameron of the General Board, and the benediction pronounced by Mrs. Julia 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE A. Child, of the General Board. Following is a summary of the meeting: Organization Greater than Individual: When reorganizations and changes occur, in the Relief Society, the sisters should realize that it is for the best good of the organization and should not take presonal offense. The organization is greater than the individual and no disrespect is meant to anyone if the proper authority sees fit to reorganize the stake or the ward, and make changes in the personnel of the officers. We are under the direction of the Priesthood and have no authority to do anything except as the Priesthood directs. Reorganizations: When a reorganization occurs, it is advisable that all workers be released. The new president should have the privilege of choosing her workers and assistants, as we all have ideas and know what we would like to do, and it simplifies matters for a new president to have the privilege of choosing her own workers. This should, of course, all be done under the direction and supervision of the stake presidency. We advise that you do not build up your stake organization too rapidly. It is easier to add to a structure than to take from it. Some presidents do not select board members until acquainted with the material at hand and with the work to be done. Some stakes report that bishops sometimes appoint ward Relief Society presidents and other officers without giving the stake Relief Society president an opportunity for consultation in the matter. This is to be regretted, for while the president may or may not know those people in the ward best suited for the work, they should and do know in a general way the qualifications necessary for ward officers. Other Relief Society presidents report that they are consulted freely when changes are to be made in the wards. It is hoped that this practice will grow and that stake presidents and bishops will consult with the Relief Society presidents freely with regard to filling offices, in the organization. Sometimes the judgment of the bishop will be as good as or better than the judgment of the Relief Society president, who perhaps does not know the prospective worker as well. But, whoever is chosen and set apart for the work in the stake or wards, the Relief Society stake president should lay aside any feeling of prejudice, if such exists, because it may be that the woman chosen will develop into the right one for the position, and perhaps the bishop's judgment will be found to be better than hers might have been. Let us do our part by sustaining the bishop in tke selection of the officers, whether or not we have a word in it. President Williams stated that occasionally stake presidents GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 337 ask the General Board for suggestions when they are contemplating reorganizations. It would be very difficut for the Board to make suggestions, especially for the outlying stakes, from the fact that we do not know just what the material is, or the capabilities of the individuals. So we thank them for the courtesy shown in asking us, and give a few of the qualifications that we think stake Relief Society workers should possess. President Williams outlined briefly the qualifications of a Relief Society stake president. First of all, she should te a true Latter-day Saint, living her religion to the best of her ability. That is the first great qualification. Ano'her qualification is vision, or the ability to see the future needs of the organization, and another is tact, the ability to get along with those around us. Another qualification is leadership, the power to bring in and hold all the elements necessary for a successful organization. Annual Business Meeting Discontinued: President Williams explained the former status of the Relief Society, when each organization was incorporated, and when an annual business meeting was necessary. At the present time the bishop of each ward is the corporate sole of the entire ward, and all property is held by him as corporate sole. It is therefore unnecessary for the ward Relief Society to hold a corporate meeting annually. Cooperation with High Councilmen: It is recommended that the stake Relief Societies make a point of giving special invitations to high councilmen supervising Relief Society work. To general, stake, and ward conferences. Their attendance gives support and encouragement to the Society and also helps to familiarize them with Relief Society work and the needs of the organization.: Officers Should Read Instructions Frequently: President Williams suggested that officers read circulars and instructions frequently, and thereby avoid writing to the office to ask for the information which is often already at hand. She further suggested that it would be a splendid thing to take half an hour monthly in the stake board meeting to go over circulars and become acquainted with the instructions therein. Board Members with Other Interests: The ruling of the Church is one person for one position. Interests should not be divided. A board member who cannot be of any help in the work should resign. A position is of no honor unless it is honored by the holder thereof. Enrolling new Members: The question was asked whether new members should be enrolled the first time they attend. President Williams does not recommend enrolling new members until it is known that they are really interested and expect 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to give their allegiance to the organization. Prospective members should be invited to the meetings, and if they become sufficiently interested, they should then be invited to join the organization, provided they are willing to take upon themselves the duties of members. Prospective members should be recommended by a member and rceived by a majority vote of those present. Removing Names from Roll: It was asked what should be done with members who have joined in a haphazard way, and later discovered that they do not care to attend, and refuse to pay dues, etc. President Williams reported the ruling of the organization, which has always been that such people be visited by the presidency of the organization and the matter placed squarely before them. They should be asked whether they care to belong to the Relief Society, and if they expect to do what is required of members, such as paying dues, etc. If they do not wish to remain as members, their names should be taken from the books.. Names should not be taken from the books, however, without ascertaining whether the individual wishes such action. Great effort should always be made to keep them on the rolls. Arrangement of Roll: There is only one roll in the Relief Society. If desired, the secretary may segregate the names of active and inactive members, placing the active members first on the roll, but there is no necessity for two rolls. All enrolled members are included in the annual report and are subject to payment of annual dues. Credit for Temple Work: In answer to a question, the ruling of the Relief Society regarding credit for temple work was given: The number of days spent in temple work means the number of those for whom temple work has been done by the Relief Society members, whether the names have been taken from temple lists or private lists. All temple work done by the Relief Society women, or at the instigation of Relief Society women, should be reported, except that done by ordinance workers as such. Tt is the desire of the General Board that each woman in the Relief Society spend either one day in the temple or provide for one day's work by paying for it. This day's work is reported to the Relief Society by the woman who pays for the work, and not by the woman who is paid for doing the work. Money paid for temple work is received in and disbursed from the General fund. Whenever this money is entered in the Relief Society record book, a note in parenthesis shou\d be made indicating how many day's work is represented thereby. GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 339 Tuesday is Relief Society Day: In response to a question, President Williams stated that Tuesday is Relief Society day. She said that in some instances, where extraordinary conditions prevailed, stakes had been given permission to try some other day, but that they have invariably been glad to come back to Tuesday. Special Visits to the sick: Visits to the sick have been designated "special visits to the sick" to distinguish them from the regular monthly teachers' visits, and also to distinguish them from entire days spent with the sick. A visit to the sick, which it later reported to the officers, is counted as a special visit to the sick, officially. Visits to relatives and friends, as such, are individual matters and are not reported in Relief Society work. Burial Clothes: Gratitude was expressed to stakes which have. Supported the temple and burial clothes department at General Headquarters, and it was suggested that when it is desired to establish such departments in the stakes, that the women charge reasonable prices for their work, as this is not a charity proposition. Counting Teachers' Visits: The ruling on teachers' visits was brought to the attention of the officers. This ruling is to the effect that one visit made, either by one teacher or a pair of teachers, is counted as one visit. Survevs Should be Complete: When ordering Relief Society record books. Teachers' 'books, or report forms, a thorough survey should be made by the stake secretary and sent to the General Secretary on a form supplied by the General Secretary, so that the correct number may be ordered. These books and forms are very expensive, and the General Secretary orders from the printers on a very close margin, usually the same number ordered by the stakes and missions, with enough extra books to take care of the normal growth of the society. Where the needs of the stake are underestimated by the stake secretary, it is often necessary for this stake to go short. This vear, after all orders for teachers' books were in and the books delivered, 500 extra teachers' books were called for and it was possible to supply only a fraction of these. Initial orders should, therefore, be as complete and acctirate as possible. Theology and Testimony Meetings: Several stakes reported that often all the time is taken up with the theological lesson and there is no time left for testimony bearing. President Williams recommended that the class leader be instructed to divide the time between the lesson and testimony bearing, giving one hour to each, Testimony bearing should he. En- 340 _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cottraged and the lesson period should not encroach upon the period for testimony bearing. Transient Members as Officers: It was asked whether or not transient members shoud be officers in an organization, when their recommends are really held in another ward. President Williams ruled that they should not be made officers. They should, by all means, be set to work, but it is not advisable for them to be made officers for such a short time. Some one asked whether members intending to reside in a ward, should be made officers before their recommends are received from their former ward. President Williams ruled that, generally speaking, they should not, for until the recommends are received, their standing in the Church is not definitely known, and they should not be made officers until the recommends are received and approved. Records Should be Turned over to New Officers: All record books, reports, circulars and instructions, etc., sent to officers of the Relief Society are the property of the Relief Society, and not of the individual. They should be turned over to the new officers promptly, when resignation of former officers occurs. It is recommended that when a stake is reorganized all records be turned over at once by the retiring stake secretary to the newly appointed secretary. It is also recommended that where wards are reorganized all records be turned over to the stake secretary who should close and audit the books and see that they are complete in every detail. The stake secretary should then place the books in the hands of the new ward secretary giving her complete instructions on how to carry on the business of the ward Relief Society. Increased Production and Consumption of Milk: The mass meeting recently called by Commissioner of Agriculture A. A. Hinckley, at the State Capitol, for the purpose of stimulating increased production and consumption of milk and other dairy products, was reported. Utah is one of the four states out of 48, where only 50 per cent of the children use milk. Relief Society Women are urged to support Commissioner Hinckley in his campaigri for increased production and consumption of these dairy products. Utah's standard is now one quart per dav for every child. And every grown-up should help to establish and maintain this standard. Relief Society Magazine: A comparative list of subscriptions to the Magazine for each stake for the year of 1921 and first three months of 1922, was read. The total showed an approximate increase of only 1,000, which was a disappointment generally. The following stakes showed an increase in GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 341 1922 over 1921, of over 100 subscriptions, some of them considerably more than 100: St. Joseph, Moapa, Alpine, Franklin, St. George, North Sanpete, Deseret, Box Elder, Morgan, North Weber. It was explained that many stakes have not instructed wards that Magazine agents' fees have been eliminated, as many lists come in with fees deducted. Stake presidents were instructed to see at once that this matter be definitely explained to wards. Inasmuch as the Relief Society Magazine contains valuable Relief Society history, instructions, and other valuable information, it was recommended by President Williams that at least one bound volume, each year, be placed in the Relief Society library of every ward in the Church. Cooperation with Parent-Teachers Associations. It was asked if the ward Relief Society, as a group, should join the parentteachers association on Social Service day and dispense with Relief Society meeting on that day. President Williams ruled that this should not be done. Tuesday has, for many years, been the established Relief Society meeting day, and should be recognized as such in the various communities. Where parent-teacher or other associations, whose membership includes L. D. S. Women, are formed, the meeting day, for the other association should be set for a day that will not conflict with the regular Relief Society meeting. The Relief Society women are, of course, interested in the welfare of children and in the activities of the parent-teachers organization, but because of the long and permanent establishment of Tuesday as the Relief Society meeting day, an adjournment or change of days for Relief Society meeting would not be justified or approved. Wheat Interest for Maternity Purposes: The maternity movement including the proposed financing of the same with the interest on the wheat fund, was briefly discussed; also the transfer of the wheat trust fund from the various stakes and wards to the Presiding Bishop's Office, where 4 per cent interest will be allowed. President Williams called attention to the fact that this is the first time consent has ever been given by the General Authorities to use the interest on the wheat for any purpose. In her opinion the turning over of this wheat interest to be used in fostering motherhood is as great a mission as the original mission for grain storing. The stake presidents were advised to consult the Stake Presidencies upon their return home and to make preparations to carry out the instructions which will be sent from the General Board in the 342 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE near future. The letter read in the conference will soon be mailed out and following this will be a letter of definite instructions in detail, as to how to proceed in transferring funds. The presidents were advised to sell all wheat on hand in local granaries and place the funds with those already on hand. The stake presidents were advised that all requests to the Relief Society in local communities from other agencies for cooperation in maternity work should be referred to the General Board. President Williams said that in the future, wheat may be collected wherever desired, but that it should be placed im the charity account, as a cash asset, and disbursed as cash, just as other merchandise and produce are placed and handled. Memorials of Past General Presidents: President Williams reported that the General Board has been considering the establishment of suitable memorials in honor of the past general presidents of the Relief Society. She mentioned briefly some of the outstanding characteristics of these past presidents and their special work in the interest of the organization. Emma Smith was the first president and among other things she was asked to prepare a song book for use in the Church, which she did successtully. She assisted the Prophet Joseph in organizing the work, and it was during her time that district visiting by Relief Society teachers was introduced. Her work and achievement merit some form of beautiful monument. Eliza R. Snow, second president, besides being a great poetess, was a great organizer. During her administration the stakes were brought into being, the wards were organized, and the foundations laid for our great work of today. Zina D. H. Young, third president, was a midwife, a nurse, and a social worker. Thousands and thousands of men and women came under her ministering hands, and this work was the oustanding feature in her administration, Bathsheba W. Smith, fourth President, was a temple worker from the days of Nauvoo until the time of her death, at which time she was the presiding woman in the temple. During her administration special courses in mothercraft were introduced throughout the Society, and the study along these lines brought many young women into the Relief Society. For Emmeline B. Wells, fifth president, poet and scholar, under whose direction the great wheat movement was inaugurated and carried on, a memorial has already been established in the form of a loan fund for upper class women of the GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 343 Brigham Young University. It is the purpose to establish some such living monument to each of the general presidents, rather than to erect monuments of stone. President Williams said that because of the present distressing financial ang economic conditions, necessitating considerable expenditure for relief work in our communities she presented this plan only for consideration at the present time and asked officers to think it over until a more propitious time for its introduction and accomplishment. She called attention to the fact that if each member were asked for 5 cents that this fund would amount to over $2,500. The proposition was received with enthusiasm by those present, and after a short discussion it was moved, seconded, and carried, that in the near future, as soon as a plan can be outlined by the General Board, the stakes take steps to collect 5 cents from each enrolled member and from any others who desire to contribute, to be donated to this memorial fund. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon of the General Board started this fund by presenting a check of $1. TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JULY WHAT THE FOURTH OF JULY MEANS TO THE WORLD Equal rights and privileges to all men before God. Opportunities to serve God and country through the Relief Society. The Significance of the Twenty-Fourth of July The sustaining faith and patriotism of Utah's founders. TEACHERS TOPIC FOR AUGUST I. Mutual helpfulness in the home: (a) Division of responsibility: 1. Children's rights and duties. 2. Parents' rights. (b) Proper recreation for both. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motte?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS.. -. President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - First Counselor MRS, LOUISA YATES ROBISON:. - - Second Counselor MRS AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs Emma A. Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Susa Young Gates Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs, Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland bere Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine ? Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: - - - -. Mrs. Susa Youne Gates Business Manager: -:. - Mrs, Jeanette A. Hype Assistant Manager Mrs. AMy Brown LYMAN Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. IX JUNE No. 6 THE MEASURE OF SUCCESS How puny are our human standards with which we measure our own or other's successes or failures in life. In youth we are fired with ambition, we feel that the stars only compass the height of our desires. With that limitation given by weak mortality, we choose some certain high place, in civil or religious life as the particular goal which we must reach in order to achieve the success which we fancy we shall deserve by reason of our gifts, our desires and our strivings. Individuals and their attainments are set up by us as models or standards by which we may measure our own ambitions. Life treats us all roughly. It is part of the Design; and we knew all about it before we came here. But we had forgotten; and when disappointment, failure in this or that direction evertakes us we sometimes get bitter, resentful and too often discouraged. The feeling of rest in success is never present with anybody who is genuine or who is worth while. Some stupid and vain people are puffed up by riches or power. But each true so-called successful man or woman sits struggling on his or her particular mountain peak, looking upward to some other higher peak with EDITORIAL - 345 hope mixed with despair, and looks downward on the thorny road traveled with agonized memory of the past. We women?how we long to be good or great?and we seldom realize for we carry such heavy burdens?that some one is looking at us with envy or admiration, wishing to attain to our own height sometime, some way. Ask yourself, could anyone call you or me successful?we who make so many daily failures?who come so far short of our youthful ambitions? Could anyone look upon you or me as ideal characters, holding positions they aspire to? Yes, yes, indeed. Faulty as we are, our daughters, the young girls near us, even some of our friends may think us fine or even great, and wish to grow to be like you and like me. Then are we successful? Not if you ask me?I am not; and yet?and yet? Look at the great women of our past?did they consider themselves sticcessful? Consider our honored "Mother" Lucy Mack Smith! She who saw her kingly sons smitten down in the flower of achievement, whose own life went out in oblivion and poverty. Recall Eliza R. Snow?greatest and most wonderful of all our women leaders and organizers. Childless, in delicate health all her life, dying alone, surrounded by those not of her kindred, and herself buoyed up only by her indomitable will and faith in God. Remember those who have followed her?how little they received compared to their deserts or their desires. Look about you todav?none of our leaders. No, not one, would say. "yes," if asked if they had been really successful. Then what consolation shall we find in this inquiry? What is there in this lesson of life? The power to measure success! If life has permitted you measurable health, measurable opportunity to work, to strive, to overcome, and you have measurably overcome, then you may consider yourself a measurable success. It is not what you achieve in worldly paths, it is what you overcome in spiritual matters that counts for success.. To overcome? little horrid temptations?to overcome the dislikes of people, the repeating of evil tales, the treating of other harshly, and to control fear in all ite manifestations: If you and I have done any or all of these things, and are doing them every day, then, indeed, you and I are successes, genuine successes. The failure of the human will?the failure to struggle, to overcome, to climb?that is the only failure.; Life's valuations differ with differing people. Tell me what you conceive success to be and I shall at once know you for what you are, not for what people think you are. 346 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SMOKING AND NON-SMOKING WOMEN. Will H. Brown. Many men who complain that women are encroaching upon the lines of employment formerly occupied exclusively by men have only themselves to blame. A. I. Root, the famous Ohio bee man, writing of the labor situation, accounts for the fact that so many employers prefer women and girls for certain kinds of work, with this statement: "The girls and women do not smoke cigarettes, nor tobacco in any form. They are more tidy in their habits; they take better care of their surroundings; they do not fill the room with smoke." The reason that working women as a class are more tidy in their habits is because they do not use tobacco. The average man who does not smoke is more thoughtful of his appearance than the one who smokes or chews. The pig in the puddle sees no reason for cleaning up either itself or its surroundings, But if the movement among so-called society women to popularize smoking is not checked., it will probably not be many years until there will be no choice between men and women on the score of neatness. The New York Evening Sun quotes an official of the British Mercantile Insurance Company as saying that many women are refused life insurance policies because of - having "smoker's heart;" that the proportion of women smokers thus affected is much greater than among men smokers. '"Tobacco is a drug,' he says, "and women use it like they would a drug." Question: Why should men who want to be at their best use tobacco at all, even though it does not injure them as much as it does women? That it is a poison drug, no one denies. Don't get discouraged when your expensive pearl buttons lose their luster. Just a little labor will brighten them up as good -as new. Soak the buttons in olive oil or a good quality of machine oil. When you take them out rub them hard with powdered pumice, talcum powder, or a good nail polish. The nail polish should always be used to finish them up with, and they will shine like well-manicured nails. Cut jet buttons should be scrubbed with a tooth brush and good soapsuds and steel and other buttons are often improved by this method. It is too much work for the ' busy housewife on the farm to remove pearl buttons from skirts or other garments when washed, and they are bound to lose their luster eventually, but a little manicuring will renew them completely. acai A Book Every Mother Should Own How the foundation for a child's health and normal growth should be laid in the home, is graphically explained in "NUTRITION AND GROWTH IN CHILDREN", by W. R. P. Emerson, pioneer and authority on the subject of foods for children. You will appreciate having this book in your home library. May mean the success of your boy or girl. $2.50. Deseret Book Company 44 E. So. Temple, Salt Lake City Price To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that more than one-half of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the conference,. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00. Sincerely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. To the Relief Society Magazine SUBSCRIBERS Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appear on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for your Expiration THE FLOWER SHOP ELIZABETH HUTH, Prop. Telephone 73 MLAATOAUCDADSTUAGEDUDSDEAUOUUUSUREOSUATEERSRIPOUITEREREDS, ECCLES BLDG., OGDEN AT McINTYRE'S moEST By TEST" Ice Cream: Candy Cake-Luncheons PHONE WAS: 3223 - P. O. BOX 17/3: - SALT LAKE CITY Service Press Better Printers of Better Printing Phone Was. 4044 A Page for Every Woman Containing latest patterns?fascinating health and beauty suggestions?recipes for cooking special dishes?and numerous articles that have special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness?wholesomeness and dependability characterizes Che Deseret News Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 228 West Broadway Salt Lake City Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information Mention Relief Society Magazine Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Boys' School SHOES When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine Temple Block Salt Lake City ?for Breakfast In high class hotels you will find Pierce's Hominy on the breakfast menu a tempting breakfast dish served with cream and sugar. Buy a can today. | HOMINY 7 a li fj CONT onTS lL8. OF Vf UE R CES National Bank The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them. Officers Hener J. Grant, President. AntHony W. Ivins, Vice-President. Cuartes W. Nistey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Arvin C. Stronc, Assistant Cashier. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. Mention Relief Society Magazine An Appropriate Gift? A Bound Volume of the Relief Society Magazine Following are the ones we have on hand: 12 Vols. Of 1915 Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1918 Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols. Of 1919 Cloth Bound 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919 Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920 Cloth Bound 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920 Leather Bound 3.00 15c Extra for postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 22, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. Mention Relief Society Magazine as "Cream of Whole Corn"?it makes FOOD PRODUCTS Here, ret ran Lig 143206 251 7a A Spirit of Friendly Sympathy Marks Every Feature of Our Service SM. TAYLOR & COMPANY successors to Joseph E. Taylor Funeral directors to the People of Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860. PHONE WASATCH 912. An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service. Was. 912 251-257 East First South Street. Was. 912 Mention Religf Society Magasine Was. 912 S. M. TAYLOR, President Was. 912 A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas. 'IKE. Q1T. RELIEF SOCIET MAGAZINE a) [ow TX JUILAY ZZ No.7 Read: Guests, by Grace Ingles. Frost. Notes From the Field, by Amy Brown Lyman. Let Us Seek Eternal Life, by Reinhard Maeser. Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year?Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year?l5c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS Che Sign of | Quality Ge Zo Ficaned GARMENTS The Sign of Comfort [f your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, ecleect your wants from this list and send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted npon request. Style Price 1 Special Summer weight.......... $ 95 24 Unbranded special, light wt. 1.25 15 Bleached spring needle gauze 1.50 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached...... 2.00 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached 2.00 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached 2.50 Style Price 100 Cotton, heavy wt., bleached... 2.95 50 Lisle, gauze wt., bleached...... 2.65 107 Merino wool, medium wt...... 3.75 109 Merino wool, heavy weight... 4.25 65 Mercerized, It. Wt., bleached 3.75 305 Australian wool, It. Wt............. 6.00 1922 Pure Glove Silk... Ee: 115 The only approved Garments made with wide flaps at back, bottom holes for better fastening down front, and set-in shoulder pieces to prevent sleeves stretching. Salt Lake Knitting 70 Main St. Mention Relief Society Magasine Store Salt Lake City BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices Call at our Burial Clothes Department 23 Bishop's Building Prompt attention given all out of town orders TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 Mention Relsef Society Magazine Music Magnetizes theHome The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop. $100.00 For this Beauty Take 15 Months to Pay Mention Relief Society Magazine HOUSEHOLD TREASURERS| In this day of household economics the lady of the home has, to a great extent, become the house treasurer and financier?it is she who carries the pocketbook, in other words, it is she who should supervise the bank account. To these good ladies we suggest the use of the check book. It is the modern, economic and convenient way to handle money. The bank check is a good receipt for money paid out on household accounts? it is a bookkeeper. TRY THE BANK PLAN. National Bank of Commerce OGDEN, UTAH When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine Latter-Day Saints Garments APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT No. No. 104 Light Summer Weight 124 Heavy weight, bleached............$2.50 (Bleached.............--.----------+$1.40 150 Extra white Mercs...... 3.00 111 Light weight, cotton... - 150 110 Medi mized. 3. 120 Light weight, bleached... 1.75 <a paaiai i. S 116 Heavy wool, mixed.................... 4.00 160 Medium weight, cotton............ 1.75 ee 122 Medium weight, bleached........ 900 117 Snow White Silkaline............. 3.40 190 Heavy weight, cotton................ 2.25 118 All Merino Wool.....00000000000000... 5.50 No. 657 Iverson St. "Reliable Agents Wanted" Salt Lake City, Utah W. M. McCONAHAY The Reliable Jeweler McConahay, the jeweler carries the latest styles in engagement and wedding rings. Consult him at 64 So. Main Street before going elsewhere. Phone Was. 1828 Salt Lake City, Utah When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine The. Summer Menu The menu for hot days should be specially thought out and prepared? zest of appetite and good health demand it. A modern, scientific Cook Book, therefore, is indispensable to every house wife. We can supply you with any good cook book now in publication. On your request we will forward you a list. You can order by mail. Deseret Book Company 44 E. So. Temple Salt Lake City 