Vol. IX MARCH, 1922 No. 3 Read the following articles in this number: Relief Society Beginnings in Foreign Lands Uncommon Honesty By Dean Bennion of the U. Of U. Leadership Week at the Brigham Young University By Amy Brown Lyman Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—l5c Single Copy second-clas! Atter =) ah Post Office, "Salt Lake "City, Utah L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS The Sign of Quality Ghmpile Band | ) GARMENTS The Sign of Comfort Style 1 Special Summer weight........$1.25 24 Unbranded special, light wt. 1.25 15 Bleached spring' needle gauge 1.75 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached.... 2.25 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached.. 200 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached 2.50 70 Main St. If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, eclect your wants from this list and send order direct to us. To any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request. Price Style We will prepay all postage Price 90 Cotton, heavy wt. Unbleached 2.50 50 Lisle, gauze wt., bleached.... 2.65 107 Merino wool, medium wt..... 3.75 109 Merino wool, heavy weight... 4.25 65 Mercerized, it. Wt., bleached 3.75 305 Australian wool, It. Wt........ 6.00 1922 Pure Glove Silk...12.00 We make BATHING SUITS. Ask for what you want—we will fit you. Salt Lake Knitting Store Salt Lake City Mention Relief Society Magazine BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices Call at our Burial Clothes Department 22 Bishop's Building Prompt attention given all out of town orders TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 Mention Relief Society Magazine Music Magnetizes theHome The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop. $100.00 For this Beauty Take 15 Months to Pay UT CAPITAL/2Z 50,000.00 bret iey 1 THAN THE STATE OF UTA Mention Relief Society Magazine Attention, Friends: If you are looking for something appropriate to give your son or daughter for graduation, call on W. M. McCONAHAY \ The Reliable Jeweler 64 So. Main St. Phone W. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah Mention Relief Society Magazine Latter-Day Saints Garments APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT No. No. (Bleached) soscteeeecceseceeenconnnnee$1.40 150 Extra white Merce............ 3.00 120 Light weight, bleached......... 1.75 116 Heavy wool, mixed............... 4.00 12 Median weieee peepca" 299 117 Snow White Silkaline......... 3.40 - 118 All Merino Wool. 5.50 190 Heavy weight, cotton........... 325 MODEL KNITTING WORKS No. 657 Iverson St. "Reliable Agents Wanted" Salt Lake City, Utah UT LDU TT Free to Every Mother —new Catalog of Church Publications A 36-page Catalog of L. D. S$. Church Publications, Bibles and Miscellaneous Books. Packed full of interesting book information. Write for your free copy today— you'll prize it very highly. We can furnish you with any Book you may wish to own, through our efficient Mail Order Department. Build up a home library for the young folks. Deseret Book Company 4A East South Temple, Salt Lake City Mention Relief Society Magazine 104 Light Summer Weight 111 Light weight, cotton............... 150 110 Medium wool, mixed. 124 Heavy weight, bleached..........$2.50 _. 3.00 The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

CONTENTS MARCH, 1922 

CONTENTS MARCH, 1922

Officers of First Relief Society in Denmark Frontispiece
The Questions Answered Vera Lee Kearl 119
Relief Society Beginnings in Foreign Lands 121
A Loan Kate B. Curtis 126
Alexander Neibaur Susa Young Gates 132
A Mother's Plea Louise Gulbransen 142
Bubbles and Troubles Ruth Moench Bell 143
Uncommon Honesty Milton Bennion 149
I Am Going Back to Father Marie Jensen 150
Hotel Utah Food Combinations Louis J. Theu 151
Women and the Disarmament Conference Nancy A. Leatherwood 152
Sunshine on the Peak Nina B. McKean 154
The General Procession James H. Anderson 155
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 160
Editorial: Prayer 165
Guide Lessons for May 167

ADVERTISEMENT

The Character Builder for 1922

In 1922 The Character Builder will enter upon its 21st year under the present editorial and business management. Its articles on CHILD WELFARE, VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE AND HUMAN CONSERVATION in 1922 will be the best that have ever been published. Every Latter-day Saint should read them. Every home needs The Character Builder; it has now been published in Salt Lake City for twenty years. It is only $1 a year. Send $1 for 1922 to Dr. John T. Miller, editor, 625 South Hope St., Los Angeles, California. (If you will send $2.50 for Dr. Miller's new book on HUMAN CONSERVATION before Jan. 1, 1922, the Character Builder will be sent you a year free.) Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE QUESTIONS ANSWERED. Vera Lee Kearl. " Twinkle, twinkle, little star! How I wonder what you are, Shining, laughing, dancing there; Making night so bright and fair; Smiling from the heaven's dome; Bidding us a welcome home. Do you God's bright message know That you smile the long night so? Standing here beneath the sky Wondering, asking, seeking why— Wishing I could pierce the blue, Tell me, star-bright, who are you? Laughing, dancing, darling child; Sparkling blue-eyes undefiled, Know you I am born of God? His hand shaped me from the sod Burning! Glowing! Fallen here From a higher, better sphere. World children can be bright "Tis but God's reflected light. Therefore, child, in all you do Ne'er forget his hand made you. OFFICERS OF THE FIRST FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY IN DENMARK, ORGANIZED Noy. 20, 1879. Sitting (from left to right): Christine Holm, Johanne Christine Nordstrom, (the president;) and Anette Sofie Anderson. Standing: Anna Elizabeth Nielson, Marie Jensen and Christine Nielsen (the secretary). THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. IX. MARCH, 1922. No. 3. Relief Society Beginnings in Foreign Lands It is interesting to examine the old records of work done by our sisters in pioneer days, not only in Utah, but in foreign lands also. We discover from the records collected in the Historian's Office, that Relief Societies were organized in the following countries on the dates named: White Chapel, London Conference, March 4, 1874. Laie, Hawaiian Mission, July 6, 1875. Copenhagen, Denmark, November 20, 1879. Christ Church, New Zealand, August 1, 1880. Berlin, Germany, August 23, 1881, Berne, Switzerland, about 1886. Amsterdam, Holland, about 1886 or '89. SCANDINAVIAN RELIEF SOCIETY The following brief but excellent account of the first Relief Society formed in Denmark has been furnished the Magazine by Assistant Church Historian, Andrew Jenson, and we may be sure of all the facts here presented as Historian Jenson is one of the most pains-taking, fact-gathering, history-proving, men of genius produced in this Church and in modern time. Those who are familiar with his work are filled with admiration at the comprehensive and wonderful labor performed by Elder Jenson. He has collected not only ward records of the ordinary activities of the priesthood, but has as well secured every scrap of information possible to obtain concerning the Relief Societies and indeed all the other auxiliary organizations of the Church. Our debt to Historian Jenson cannot be measured in words. It is from him that we have obtained the charming old-time group of the original officers in the Copenhagen Relief Society which forms our frontispiece. FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY IN DENMARK Andrew Jenson On Thursday, Nov. 29, 1879, a special meeting was called in Copenhagen, Denmark, at the Saints' hall, Store Regnegade 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 26, to which all the sisters of the Copenhagen branch were specially invited. There was a fine turnout of sisters and the following named brethren met with them: Niels Wilhelmsen, president of the Scandinavian Mission; Carl C. Asmussen, president of the Copenhagen Conference, Andrew Jenson, president of the Copenhagen branch, and Herman F. Thorup, another missionary from Zion. The brethren present explained that since the early days of the Church the proper place for women in connection with the great Latter-day work had been recognized by the authorities of the Church, that Joseph Smith, the Prophet, himself organized the first Female Relief Society, in Nauvoo, Illinois, in 1842, and that at the present time there were Relief Societies in nearly all the wards and branches of the Church in Zion. According to instructions received from the headquarters of the Church by the respective presidents of missions in different parts of the world it was considered wise also te organize Relief Societies in the larger branches of the Church abroad; and this already had been done in certain parts of America and Great Britain, where the English language was spoken. The movement now having become widespread it was deemed proper to organize a Relief Society in the oldest and largest branch of the Church in Denmark, as a commencement to a. Further move in the same direction in other branches of the mission. Consequently, the Copenhagen Branch Female Relief Society (Kjobenhavns Grens Kvindelige Hjelpeforening) was organized with the following officers: Johanne Christine Nordstrom, president, Christine Holm, first, and Annette Sophie Anderson, second counselor; Anna Elizabeth Nielsen and Christine Nielsen, secretaries, and Marie Jensen, treasurer. This society has had a continued existence ever since, has done a great deal of good and is still, as far as I know, in a flourishing condition. The first president, Sister Nordstrom, in due course of time, emigrated to Salt Lake City, where she died in the 18th. Ward, a faithful member of the Church. Sister Holm, the first counselor is also dead, but Sister Anderson, the second counselor, is still alive and resides in Murray, Salt Lake county, Utah. Sister Anna Elizabeth Nielsen, one of the secretaries, died several years ago as the wife of the late Jens Hansen of Spanish Fork, Utah. Christine Nielsen, the other secretary, married Carl Victor Anderson and now lives with her husband in Cincinnati, Ohio, where Brother Anderson presides over the branch. Sister Jensen, the treasurer, died in Utah several years ago. Soon after the organization of the Copenhagen Branch Society similar Societies were organized in the various branches of the Church in Denmark, Sweden and Norway. Soon after the organization of the first Relief Society in RELIEF SOCIETY BEGINNINGS 123 Denmark some of the larger branches in the country followed the example of the Msters in Copenhagen. Thus a Relief Society was organized in Aarhus Feb. 11, 1880, with the following officers: Johanne Marie Petersen, president; Anna Margrethe Petersen, first, and Rasmine Christensen, second counselor; Wilhelmine Jespersen, secretary and Maren Rasmussen, treasurer. This society has perhaps been the most active and successful of all the Relief Societies organized in Denmark. The Aarhus Branch consists of a number of quite well-to-do and highly respectable families of Saints, and as their benevolence corresponded with their financial standing the contributions paid into the treasury of the society has always been adequate to take care of the poor of the branch and otherwise assist in the promotion of the work of the Lord in that part of Denmark. A Relief Society was organized in Aalborg, Aug. 19, 1880, with the following officers: Mrs. Gjertrud Marie Jespersen. President; Line Christensen, first, and Else Kirstine Thomsen, second counselor; Jensine Martine Christensen, secretary and treasurer. This society, like the one in Aarhus, has had a continued existence since its first organization and has accomplished much good. A Relief Society was organized in Hjorring (Aalborg Conference) Dec. 12, 1880, with Trine Jensen as president and Ane Marie Jensen and Ane Johanne Jensen as counselors. This society only existed for a few years, as the small membership of the branch was inadequate to keep up a permanent organization. A Relief Society was organized in Odense (on the island of Fyen) May 29, 1881, with the following officers: Christine Jeppesen, president; Johanne Nielsen and Kiersten Nielsen, counselors; Mette Kirstine Hansine Nielsen, secretary, and Ane Nissen treasurer. This society is still in good running order. A Relief Society was organized in Randers (Aarhus Conference) April 10, 1881, with Ane Marie Pedersen as president and Julie Andersen and Else Christensen as counselors. This society has also had a continued existence ever since its first organization. There have been Relief Societies organized in some of the other smaller branches in Denmark such as Esbjerg, Silkeborg, etc., but as no records are on hand we are unable to give any account of these organizations. NORWAY The first Female Relief Society in Norway was organized by Elder Andrew F. Petersen in the Frederikstad Branch, in the fall of 1877, with Eva Constance Jacobsen as president and Oliane Larsen as first and Marie Guldbrandsen as second counselor. The 124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Society was more completely organized in 1880, and has had a continued existence ever since. A Relief Society was organized in Christiania by Conference President Christian Haagensen in January, 1880, with the following officers: Caroline Haagensen, president; Mathilde Diesen, first, and Hanne Dagsen, second counselor; Pauline Christiansen. Secretary. This society has been a flourishing organization ever since it first came into existence. It has ranked as one of the largest and most successful Relief Societies in the Church outside of the Stakes of Zion. It has been a great help to the missionaries who have labored in Christiania and immediate vicinity. Since its first organization the society has as a rule held 2+ public meetings and 24 working meetings annually. Its benevolent work in behalf of the poor has perhaps set an example to all other Relief Societies in the world. A Relief Society was organized in Namos (Trondhjem branch) July 13, 1880, by Elder Anthon L. Skanchy, with the following officers: Mrs. Christine Iversen, president and treasurer; Kjerstine Hassing, first, and Pauline Petersen, second counselor; Gerhardine Albrektsen and Anne C. Olsen, secretaries. This association only continued a few years, but as long as it existed it was the northernmost Latter-day Saints Relief Society in all the world. A Relief Society was organized in Laurvig, May 8, 1881, with the following officers: Karen Christensen, president; Dorthea Nielsen, first, and Inger Andrea Jacobsen, second counselor; Grethe Christiansen, secretary. A Relief Society was organized in Frederikshald, April 25, 1881, by Elder Andrew Amundsen, with Torine Mikkelsen as president, and Jensine Ericksen as first, and Pauline Poulsen as second counselor. This society, though small as to the number of its members, was still in existence as late as 1911. In Trondhjem, the northernmost cathedral city in the world, a Relief Society was organized Oct. 17, 1881, with Thea Petersen as president and Bergitte Erlandsen as first and Marie Poulsen as second counselor. This society is still in existence. Temporary Relief Society organizations have been organized in other parts of Norway, such as Drammen, Bergen, Stavanger, etc., but owing to the emigration of the members of these branches to Zion and the consequent reduction of membership, some of these societies only remained active a few years. ° SWEDEN In some of the branches of the Church in Sweden there were in an early day temporary organizations of sisters which perhaps in some degree performed the same benevolent labors RELIEF SOCIETY BEGINNINGS 125 { as the more perfectly organized Female Relief Societies of a later date. But the first regularly organized Relief Society in Sweden was organized in Stockholm. (the capital of Sweden) in the spring of 1880 by Elder L. M. Oison, with the following officers: Lovisa Fagergren, president; Rosina Pettersson, first, and Sofia Lundberg, second counselors; Ebba Bjorling, secretary. This society, the largest and perhaps the most active of its kind in Sweden, has had a continued existence since 1880, and has been a great help not only to the poor in the Stockholm branch, but to the elders who have labored for the work of the Lord in that part of Sweden. A Relief Society was organized in Malmo (Skane Conference) Sept. 14, 1880, with the following officers: Bengta Nilsson, president; Kjersti Dahl, first, and Elna Forsberg second counselor; Carolina Liljerot, secretary, and Elna Nielson, -treasurer, Also this association has extended efficient help to the poor in that part of Sweden, besides assisting the missionaries to pay hall rent, etc. The society is still in good running order, A Relief Society was organized in the Uppland Branch (Stockholm Conference) Nov. 29, 1880. In Upsala, one of the most historic cities in Sweden, where there is a branch of the Church, a Relief Society was organized Nov. 29, 1880,. With 30 members, including a president. Two counselors, a secretary and four teachers. There is and has been for many years an active Relief Society in Goteborg, and also in other branches in Sweden Relief Societies have been organized from time to time, but in the absence of records we are unable to give any detailed account of their activities. In conclusion we may say that the good and faithful sisters in the Scandinavian countries have, from the very beginning, rendered most efficient help to the missionaries, who have labored to make the Scandinavian Mission one of the most suc~- cessful missions in the whole world. Independent of the Relief Society work, the sisters have in hundreds of instances paved the way for the elders to get into the homes of the people, in order to deliver their gospel message. Scores of the young girls, who have worked for wages, have been-the most punctual and faithful in paying ther tithes and donations, thus aiding in the further spread of the work of the Lord. In all the large branches also the sisters have been organized into branch choirs more numerously than the brethren and thus, by singing the sweet songs of Zion, they have been the means of impressing thousands of people who after enjoying the singing remained to listen to the gospel discourses delivered by the elders. A Loan Kate B. Curtis As I sit looking through my school-room widow, to the green hills beyond, sweet, earthy smells are wafted in to me. The "out-of-doors" is calling to me today. The sunshine and the green things springing up, take me back to a year ago, over at our ranch across the river, where Garrie, Val and I walked through the green grain fields, past the old straw stack and along the river where the green willows grew, then through the fence to where the mustard greens were thick. Garrie would stop to play in the sand, while Val threw herself down on the green clover bed, to enjoy the first sweet smells of Spring. This morning, I brought one or two of my phonograph records in, to play on the school machine. As I listened to "Birds of Spring" my thoughts went back to our Thatcher home. In fancy I saw Garrie playing on the lawn, while Val picked roses from the tall bushes by the porch. Away down the side walk I could see Val's Aunt Lottie in her blue apron and pink tatted cap, coming with her light airy tread, sq buoyant with life and hope. This Summer I'll again play the records I love, while the smell of the roses is wafted in at the window. Val will be near by, bui Aunt Lottie will be so far away, she can't come in to play the piano or talk in her cheery bright way—perhaps mother will come, though., Kathleen will roll on the rug in Garrie's place. He has gone where the flowers are even prettier and the voice of Spring calls iouder. He hears the music of the heavenly choir but cannot share the joy with us—not yet. *) We) ep RE "How would you like to have a real worth-while birthday present?" I asked John, as we stood under our new arbor. "Alright," he smiled, "but there's no such good luck." I smiled as I considered the possibility. His twenty-sixth birthday would be in three more days. True, we had been expecting a visit from the stork for the past week, but it might delay a little longer. Sure enough, it came on the afternoon of John's birthday. He was a proud father when he saw his little daughter for the first time, then stooped to kiss the girl-wife, who had been down into the "Valley of the Shadow." A LOAN. 127 We named her "Val" for besides being a birthday gift, she was also a Valentine. Six years passed by before we had any prospects of another child to be a playmate to Val. But as my twenty-sixth birthday drew near, John, little thinking that his words would come true, said to me, "This time it will be your turn to have the birthday present." He looked at me with kindly eyes, thinking of the pain and travail. When it was all over, and he stood in the early morning light, holding his tiny son in his arms, his heart was almost bursting with gratitude and thanksgiving that his dear wife was spared—to enjoy her birthday present. "Won't we have fun on the birthdays? Every one will be a double celebration," he told me. Ee OK * OK O€ When Gareth, for we named him that, was thirteen months old, we went from our Thatcher home for a while, to our farm across the river. The farm life took on new interest for John, as Garrie toddled about, trying to help papa. He loved to take his cup out at milking time, and drank the fresh foaming milk. He never forgot to feed his two cats either, often times before he himself had finished. He amused himself while Val was at school, playing with the two cats, climbing on top of the old mowing machine, or, as he grew older, riding to the field with John, where he'd try manfully to hold the plow, while John drove the team. So well he loved to go to the field that at times he'd slip outside, and, before I knew it, be half way across the ploughed field, hunting his "Pop" as he called him. Y He and Val loved each other so well, that there was seldom a cross word between them, and to offend one of them was to offend the other also. But once, in play, he bit her shoulder till she cried. Many times over she assured me that she'd just as soon play with her little brother as with Lorraine or Gladys Wiliams, who were girls her size. They loved best to play "lion," with the cat. The minute they knelt on the floor, the cat, standing a little way off, bristled his back and opened his eyes wide, looking very angry, as he showed his white teeth. Then he'd lay back his ears, and jump at first one of them, then the other, while they laughed and tried to get away. Val told him the story of all the pictures in his book. When 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE he looked at the one of the little boy crying, because he couldn't drive the goats out of the pasture, he'd kiss it over and over, saying, "Don't kie 'ittle boy, don' kie 'ittle boy." As he played, he'd sing: "Yove Pop: Yove Mom, Yove Tishter: Yove Kitty, Yove Tom Cat." When we went to meet Val as she came from school, he'd make his kitty stay home, for fear it would get lost in the bushes by the river. But by the time we met Val, there the cat was also. In my mind's eye, I see his little blue clad figure, his rosy cheeks, and merry eyes, as he looked at the cat in surprise to think it had come after all. He'd affect to scold it, but from the twinkle in his eyes, he was secretly glad it had come. _ What a happy time we had winter evenings, in front of the roaring fire with our books, and music. We learned to appreciate our phonograph in our isolated home. Gareth's second birthday had passed, and the crisp spring days had come. We took long walks through the green fields, past the straw stack, along the river where the green things were growing, through the fence and over where the mustard greens were thick. Garrie would stop to play in the sand, while Val threw herself down in the green clover bed, to enjoy the first sweet smells of Spring. Ofttimes the children rode back on "Pet" and "Brownie" while John and I walked along at their sides. I 1) FE ee One day Garrie reached up his fat little arms to me. "Kish, Mama, kish." After I'd kissed the little upturned face, while he patted me with pudgy hands, he led me into the dining room. "See, I wite letter Pop. Pop see letter," he explained. On the white-washed wall, opposite the dining table, he had written his letter. In days to come, we were to read the letter many times over with brimming eyes. It was but a few days until a new baby girl came to stay with us, and the children stood by my bed, carefully and tenderly, stroking her tiny black head. "Mother is so proud to have three children," I told them. Val's eyes shone bluer than I'd ever before seen them, and her hair hung in wavy tendrils, around her face, as she whispered to me, "We're so glad, too, Mama!"; But this happines and contentment could not last. The third night following, without warning, I awoke in a hard chill, and seemed freezing, then burning, by spells. A LOAN 129 "The "Flu" epidemic had struck us! For four long weeks I lay scorching with fever, as I battled with death, so that my little ones might not be left without a mother. During this time, John and Val had a siege of it, and as I commenced to convalesce, Garrie was stricken. He was so ill from the very first, that I insisted, contrary to orders, on taking charge of him, although just out of bed. I wonder now how even my mother love gave me strength to drag myself around so soon after having given birth to a child, besides having the "flu" with its complications. But so many were ill at this time, efficient help was very difficult to obtain, and I could not bear to see my darling improperly nursed. Day after day, he lay burning with fever, and unable to take any nourishment, until his beautiful little body was shrunken and weak. We employed the best medical aid to be had, but too late, they found that he had developed diphtheria. These were days in which we turned for help to our Father above, and pleaded with him to spare our sunny-haired child. "Oh, Father, thou knowest that he has been the sunshine of our home, with his bright smile and merry ways, we do so want him to play again in the sunshine in his little coveralls and hat. "Thou knowest, Father, how grateful we were when thou gavest him to us, and how we have thanked thee, over and over, for thy gift. At the same time we say, 'Thy will be done.' " After a time, his fever left, but his heart was too far spent to rally. I heard him whisper, "Milk, hungry." As I bent over to kiss the wasted little face, he raised one hand to my face, then softly pressed a kiss on my cheek. That was his farewell to me! His life ebbed out while his father stood over him. "My little son, only God knows how papa hates to give you up, but he has to do it. The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away, Blessed be the name of the Lord." My gift, loaned for the three short years, so packed with joy and laughter had returned to the Giver. There lay the little red shoes he had been so proud of. No more would the little feet run to meet sister and papa. The blue coveralls I had made him, would never need replacing. There lay his wooden doll, the one he had best loved, his doll buggy, and chair, all to remind us of the little companion who would no more go with us to the green fields. It was now that John became bitter and reproachful. "Why couldn't God have healed our child? God is all powerful and we helped all we knew how, why did our darling have to leave us?" 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE We had no family prayers now, no grace over the food, no cheerful meals. John often left the table to feed Garrie's big cat when it begged at the door, then threw himself down on the bed to sob out his grief alone. Our neighbor thought to console us. "You have no right to grieve so over your child. God wanted him." "Ts it because God wants the little babies, that so many die in New York City every year?" John replied, "or is it because the milk supply is so impure that it kills them?" "Well it was different with you," she'd say, "your child had the best of care." Three days later, they brought her only little son in to her, after they had drained a reservoir to get out his body. When I went to her, she sobbed out to me, "I thought, when I tried to offer you words of comfort that I understood, Mary, but I didn't—I didn't." Except to ask me if she should still pray for Garrie, Val, during this time, never by word or tone referred to him, or voluntarily mentioned his absence. If I asked her a question concerning him, she'd answer me unemotionally, then change the subject quickly. = One night, as I saw her trudging home from school through the ploughed fields, I thought of the little blue-clad figure that used to run to meet her. Leaving the baby asleep, I followed the trail around the hill, and waited for her in the willows. She did not come. I went on farther, and found her, lying face downward on the clover bed, shaking with sobs. "What is the matter, my darling little girl?" I asked her as I raised her head into my arms. "Oh, Mama, I was thinking how Garrie used to come skipping on one foot, to meet me, his little tongue showing. "Here is where he used to look in my lunch basket to see if I'd saved him some of my lunch," she choked. "And there," pointing to the willows, "is where I broke stick horses for him." The brave little thing had suffered alone in silence to spare our feelings! * Fe * * kK * The day came, when, by sheer force of necessity, I was compelled to go to the Lord for help. Little Kathleen, my baby, was not thriving. I had not been able to nurse her since her birth, and she wasn't gaining in weight on her bottle. Our home was A LOAN 131 desolation itself, and I, so spent with sorrow that I could not properly look after the children that were left me. Relief came each day only through earnest prayer. One troubled night I fell asleep, after long wakeful hours. John, Val and myself, all in Sunday attire, and I carrying my baby, walked toward a strange, magnificent building, thronged with people. I looked at John and thinking it odd that he was not leading Gareth along as usual, I mentioned it to him. He turned and went back, as if to fetch the child. He soon overtook us, leading Garrie by the hand. I looked the child over to see if John had properly dressed him for such a grand occasion. "Imagine my surprise! When my eyes fell upon his feet, he wore a pair of John's Sunday shoes, instead of his own, and odder still, he did not falter or stumble but walked with a light, springing step, as if the shoes were made especially for him. I looked questioningly at John. "Can't you see those shoes belong on his feet?" John made answer. After relating my dream to John, the next morning, he was very thoughtful for a long period. At length he said to me, "Mary, I guess he was needed beyond the veil to have charge of my affairs." This was a turning point for us. Seeing John feel better, gave me new courage. Although Kathleen had been bottle fed for more than two months, I again put her to the breast, hoping thus to restore my milk flow. Surely but slowly it returned and today my little Kathleen is a fat, dimpled baby, fast growing a mouthful of teeth. When she is not asleep in the room across the hall, she plays here by my desk in her big play box. This Fall, I am teaching the Mexican school, here in San Jose. It keeps my mind occupied so that I do not have time to think too much. I can see John ploughing in a near-by field, and here is Val, her arms filled with California poppies for us! Alexander Neibaur Susa Young Gates Alexander Neibaur was born in Ehrenbriestein, France, Jan. 8, 1808. It was then a part of Alsace-Lorraine, but is now German territory. The parents of Alexander were Nathan and Rebecca Peretz Neibaur. They were of the higher class of Hebrews. This is evidenced by the fact that the father was well educated, being a physician and surgeon, as well as a facile linguist. He intended his son Alexander for the Jewish ministry and had him educated for a rabbi to elucidate the Law of Moses; but when the boy was seventeen years old he decided that he did not wish this career, and chose the profession of a surgeon and dentist. He attended the University of Berlin, graduating before he was twenty years of age. He set out on his travels immediately after leaving the University, and became converted to the Christian faith. He finally located for some time in the city of Preston, England, where he met and married an excellent wife by name, Ellen Breakel. Here the couple were found on July 30, 1837, when the first "Mormon' elders came over to open the gospel door to the British mission at the famous "Cock-pit," Preston, England. The story of his conversion is full of interest. It was one morning very early in the city of Preston, when the misty sunshine swept down with as much ardor into the green lanes and narrow city streets of England as is ever permitted to that land of cloudy skies. The women of Preston, in common with their kind, had the custom of going out before sunrise to give their front stone steps and porticos a coat of "whitewash," as it was called. We of America see this custom kept up only in quaint old Philadelphia. It was on one of these mornings that the young wife of Alexander Neibaur was on her knees polishing to the last degree of whiteness her own steps, when a neighbor challenged her attention with the remark: "Have you seen the new ministers from America?" "No," answered the younger woman, still intent on her work. "Well," asserted the neighboring housewife laconically, as befits great tidings, "They claim to have seen an angel."; "What?" rang out an abrupt voice from an inner chamber, as the young Hebrew husband sprang from his couch and put his head out of the window.. "What's that you say?" The information was repeated for his benefit, and hurriedly dressing, the young man secured the address of the American ALEXANDER NEIBAUR 133 preachers of this strange religion; and not many hours after he was in close conversation with Elders Heber C. Kimball, Willard Richards, Orson Hyde and Joseph F ielding. His was the swift conversion of spirit that demanded baptism on the spot. One of the first questions he asked, was, "You have a book?" And nothing could satisfy that eager, inspired question till he had a copy of the Book of Mormon in his own hands, for he had seen it, so he declared, in his night visions and recognized the Book on sight. He was waiting for the great message. He was advised by the elders to wait and investigate further. Taking the book home with him, he read it through in three days. He said later that he could neither eat nor sleep till he had mastered all the contents of that wondrous volume. When he returned the book he offered himself for baptism, but was advised to wait till he was prepared. He answered, "Gentlemen, I am prepared." And his subsequent life found him always prepared. He accepted the counsel, however, and waited till the following spring. It is related that in one of the gatherings of the Saints in Preston at this time, he heard the gift of tongues exercised. He arose and interpreted the tongue, telling the congregation afterwards that he did not do this by the gift of the Spirit, but naturally, as the former speaker had used the Hebrew tongue, which was, of course, the language of his birth. Brother Neibaur's wife could not see the gospel so quickly nor so easily as did her husband. He sat long evenings reading the Book of Mormon to his wife, and she enjoyed it, she said, as it was a "pretty story;" but she could not see what it had to do with religion or with the Prophet Joseph Smith as such. The final conversion of the mother came after a remarkable manifestation which was vouchsafed to her. She saw, in a dream, the sky covered with small clouds the size of a man's face, each cloud formed around and repeating the face of one man. After gazing at this peculiar phenomenon for some time, the clouds all dropped down to earth; and with that she awoke, filled with wonder and amazement, for it was the face of Willard Richards who was one of the second company of elders to carry the gospel to England. She knew at once the significance of this dream and was filled with the spirit of testimony. The gospel message was clear and beautiful to her ever after that, and she was ready to listen to its teachings and to go forth in the waters of baptism. His baptism occurred on April 9th, 1838, under the hands of Elder Isaac Russell. This step was not taken without many sacrifices and trials. His new friends and former associates: were indeed bitter and relentless in their opposition to the further conversion of this brilliant young Hebrew. He had made his i134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE friends through his business associations as well as through the genial manner and the honest nature of his life and dealings. He was of considerable promise, and all who knew him deplored the step he had taken and tried to dissuade him from wrecking his life. Alexander Neibaur was a Jew, and he was the first of his race to accept the gospel; but he was also of that small and courageous company who heard the first gospel message borne to Great Britain by President Heber C. Kimball, Willard Richards, Orson Hyde, Joseph Fielding and Isaac Russell. There is a story told by the family concerning the father of Alexander which well illustrates the invincible character of his family and of his race. Nathan Neibaur, the father, was a physician and surgeon in the French army under Napoleon Bonaparte; and indeed, Dr. Neibaur was closely associated with that great soldier of fortune through his own brilliant powers as a linguist and as an interpreter. When the First Empire was at the point of decline, Napoleon visited the home of his former attache in Ehrenbreitstein, endeavoring to induce Dr. Neibaur again to enter his service, this time as a spy. Great sums of money were added to other inducements offered to Dr. Nathan Neibaur to come out of his retirement and use his gifts to assist the waning fortunes of the great Emperor. But the spirit of the Jew was as relentless in its own purpose as was that of his proud imperial guest, and it was Napoleon who was defeated at this private encounter of wills. 'Such was also the spirit of his son, Alexander Neibaur. When he was convinced of the mission of Jesus as a Savior, he left his father's roof-tree to become a soldier of the cross; and thus when the gospel star shone upon his horizon, he hesitated not in following its course, though it led him across the sea, into dangers manifold, and swept from him all former friends and associates. His was the spirit that followed Moses and Joshua, and across his fireside altar he might well have inscribed, as did Joshua of old—''As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." In the spirit of dauntless courage and unshaken purpose, the young Hebrew made his careful preparations to join the second company of Saints that took the ship from a foreign land to emigrate to Zion. He sailed from Liverpool, Sunday, February 7, 1841, in the ship Sheffield, under the leadership of Hiram Clark, with a company of 235 Saints on board. He was a student well aware of the value of history and record keeping. He began a daily journal with the sailing of that ship in which he faithfully set down the events, both great and small of that historic voyage, | ALEXANDER NEIBAUR 135 where the men and women in the steerage crowded together with little classification or regard to comfort and where the passengers in that section of the vessel were obliged to carry and cook their own food. Arriving in Nauvoo, Brother Neibaur was welcomed by his former friends, Heber C. Kimball, and Willard Richards. Under the hands of Willard Richards and John Taylor he was ordained to the Priesthood, January 18, 1843, and ordained a seventy in 1844. He was honored with the friendship of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and was fired with the same passionate zeal for the gospel and the fearless Latter-day Prophet which ~ characterized the leaders and other faithful members of the Church. He had the extreme pleasure of becoming instructor to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the German and Hebrew languages, and treasured all his life the blessedness of that memory and association. Asked by one of his daughters in later life how it was that he came to accept the gospel, he replied that he was converted to the mission of Christ long before he ever heard a Latter-day Saint elder preach. He added that subsequently he had been visited in dreams and visions and had seen the Book of Mormon brought forth in vision; also that he had become familiar with the endowment ceremonies in the same mystic manner. On this point he once had a conversation with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and told the Prophet many things that had been manifested to him in his early youth. The prophet put his arm affectionately around Brother Neibaur's shoulder and said, "You are indeed one of us, Brother Neibaur." Elder Neibaur was industrious and frugal, one who owed no man and who hewed with justice to the line, while he sunk the plummet of honesty to its foundation in his own soul. He practiced his profession of dentistry when there was a chance, which was not often in that pioneer struggling community. But he could and did work at other things which brought him sufficient to care for his rapidly growing family without assistance from any man. He was as austere in his pride of good birth and clean inheritance as were any of his famous ancestors, but the gospel mellowed this severity and gave softened lines to a character that might otherwise have been cold and intense. With the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith, he was as deeply bereft as any man who suffered that matchless blow. His children still tell the tale of that dreadful morning when they heard the messengers ride through the streets of Nauvoo, crying out their loss to the stricken inhabitants of Zion. Bowed to the earth, the family of Elder Neibaur had unusual occasion to fear 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the clouds of persecution which gathered so swiftly over the fair city of Nauvoo; for the mother was about to bring another soul into the world, and they were troubled. The atmosphere that brooded over the stricken city of Nauvoo was intensely gloomy and all the people were filled with apprehension. It. Was a time to try men's souls. Many of the leading elders were drawing off, and the spirit of apostasy and rancor filled the air. Alexander Neibaur hated a traitor. He was not a large man, but he was fearless and outspoken in his character. He had sound convictions and the spirit of discernment; so that he knew the wolfish eyes even when the skin of the sheep hung down over the ears of the traitor. One day William Law met him in the streets of Nauvoo shortly after the martyrdom. Law was vicious in his attacks upon those who criticised his own actions, and when he held out his hand to shake hands with Elder Neibaur, it was a brave thing for the Hebrew elder to withhold his hand and say firmly, "William Law, I never give my hand to a traitor." On another occasion he went into the store to buy some vinegar; he had his little stone jug with him. Within, he found a man cursing and blaspheming the name of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Instantly the stone jug was slung into the face of the blasphemer by the swift hand of the Hebrew, and as it crashed and broke on his skull, the fiery young Jew demanded, "What do you know about the Prophet Joseph Smith?" On still another occasion Elder Neibaur was working at his profession of dentistry at a small town called Farmington, Iowa, securing means to carry his family out into the wilderness and away from the murderous mobs in Missouri and Illinois. On the table of the room where he was at work, his client had deposited his pistol. As Elder Neibaur rested for a moment from his work, the man in the chair began to blaspheme in the most awful and bloodcurdling manner the name and memory of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Elder Neibaur rebuked him sternly and rigorously defended the character of the Prophet. The blackguard jerked up his pistol and threatened to shoot Elder Neibaur if he did not hold his peace. Suiting the action to the word he raised the pistol and snapped off every barrel in the face of the elder, but for some strange reason, not one took effect. The brother of the blasphemer came in from an adjoining room, and picking up the revolver he emptied each barrel outside the door in the air. He turned to his brother and asked what could have ailed his hand. Brother Neibaur told him that he guessed his guardian angel must have interfered to prevent his own blood from being shed. ALEXANDER NEIBAUR 137 Elder Neibaur worked on the Nauvoo house as well as on the Nauvoo Temple, but he was not a laboring man by nature or constitution; and he was ill many times during his enforced heavy physical labor. On one occasion, he was so reduced that the Prophet himself came to visit him, and promised him help and gave him his blessing. Several days afterwards, Elder Neibaur accompanied the prophet to visit the Church-farm, then in charge of Father Lot. "Can you spare Brother Neibaur one bushel of corn?" asked the prophet of Father Lot. "No, sir, we cannot possibly spare one bushel." "Then, Brother Lot, let him have two or three bushels of corn, for he has got to have it." And Brother Neibaur got it. It was while living in Nauvoo that Elder Neibaur wrote some of his best poetry. He was his own severest critic. And with the modesty of a truly genuine poet, he was loth to advertise his work. One of his poems, now printed in our Hymn Book is the famous "Come, thou glorious day of promise." No lovelier nor more engaging hymn is found than this voice of hope and promise from the pen of a baptized Jew. Another hymn not so frequently sung yet inspiring and poetic in all its tuneful strains: "Let Judah rejoice in this glorious news, The sound of glad tidings will soon reach the Jews, And save them far, far from oppression and fear, Deliv'rance proclaim to their sons far and' near." It is related by one of his daughters that one day he was singing hymns, as was his frequent custom, and some question was asked of her father concerning this hymn, who repeated it for her. "Yes," he admitted, "this was written by your humble servant." When asked why his name did not appear attached to it, _he replied that he had taken the poem to Brother Parley P. Pratt,. Who had edited it in some places. And this small assistance caused the sensitively honest soul of Elder Neibaur to shrink from asserting his authorship. Another exquisite piece of rich Jewish poetry is the Lamentation written at the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch. After the martyrdom, the Neibaurs, in common, with all other Saints, were extremely anxious to get away from the mobinfested spot—-Nauvoo. But the wife was too near confinement to leave until her time was over. Elder Neibaur was ordered out with the militia just before the battle of Nauvoo; but he told the brethren of the situation of his wife. Accordingly, as soon as she 138 _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE -was confined, he left her, and was absent for two weeks, in the midst of the danger and uproar of that terrible encounter. The wife was sick as well with chills and fever as with her natural confinement. Only once did the husband come home during the silent watches of a stormy night to have prayers with his loved family. What a scene! The mother sick in her bed with shaking ague still very faint and ill from her birth-sickness, and the little children crying about her with hunger and fear. Who was to comfort, and who was to succor? But this devoted family had learned their lesson of faith and trust, even though life itself were upon the altar. A terse extract from Elder Neibaur's journal at this point shows the conditions of that time and place: 1846, Sept. 1. 'Mob advanced towards Joseph's farm—fired three cannon shots at night. "Quartered at Squire Wells——-Mob moved towards William Law's field firing thirty-five cannon balls— Myself being placed in a cornfield opposite Hyrum's farm to spring a mine.— Two forts erected in the night—On the 12th mob makes an attack to get into Nauvoo.—Brother William Anderson and his son, belonging to the 5th Quorum of Seventy being shot. Mob repelled—with a number wounded."— * * * The Neibaurs lived in the outskirts of the city of Nauvoo. To them came one day a body of the state troops, and down the streets they marched. Into the green, fresh garden of the Neibaurs they turned their horses, breaking down the fence without leave or license, and the labor of a year was trampled out of sight in a few ruthless hours. But the Lord preserved the helpless family and they still prayed and hoped. The day after the battle of Nauvoo, another division of the army came down tpon them, and the leader who was a tall, massive soldier rode up to the Neibaur house with his drawn sword in his hand. "Were you in the fight of yesterday?' he asked of Alexander Neibaur who stood in his doorway keeping his helpless family behind him. "Yes, I was," answered he. "Have you a gun?" again rang out the. Questioning challenge. "Yes, I have.". "Bring it to me. The general wants every gun that was in that fight." "Find my gun, if you want it," replied the sharp voice of Elder Neibaur. The officer looked grimly into the fearless eyes of the young Hebrew, ALEXANDER NEIBAUR 138 "Take me to your general," said Neibaur. "I am qui'e willing to see him." And as he spoke he offered the Masonic sign for he was a Mason of high degree. Instantly the officer turned, dropped his sword, and after a few more ineffectual words he swung away, his men filing up the lonely street after him. Then followed the Exodus from Illinois. Ah, the farce of those bargainings of Nauvoo homes; for men who had good homes and thrifty farms sold them for a horse, a wagon, a cow or even for a harness to complete a scanty outfit in which to escape to the great untrodden West. Young Neibaur had a wagon all finished but the irons, and he was trying to complete his work in the midst of the turmoil. Very shortly after this the Neibaur family crossed the river with their scanty effects in company with the other refugees and camped on the other side. The storms beat down upon that assembled host with merciless fury; the water soaked so slowly into the ground that there was a perfect ooze of wet and deep mud everywhere. The young mother with her babe only a fortnight old was taken by courtesy to the tiny tent of a neighbor who agreed to let her sleep under the partial shelter of their own drear canvas roof. During the day she sat under the bows of the wagon which Elder Neibaur had just completed when he was driven out of Nauvoo. And covered as these bows were with old carpets, it was even more shelter than many had on that dismal march. But the chills which had so long afflicted the young mother, took their flight, and she began to mend. This they all felt was a special dispensation of Providence. From here David Fullmer took them up to the Grove. * ok In common with' a portion of their fellow refugees, the Neibaur family spent the winter of 1846-7 in Bonaparte, Iowa: in the spring of 1847 they moved to Winter Quarters. When the pioneers who had been to Salt Lake Valley returned, and word went out that the first company of 1848 would make ready to move westward, the soul of Elder Neibaur was wrought up within him. He had spent some time working and had secured sufficient food-stuffs and other materials to go to the Valley, but he had no wagon or oxen. He was advised to return to his work across the river and wait till he had a complete outfit, but he said, "Brother Brigham, I never turn back after I have put my hand to the plow. Besides, my wife is sick and if I don't get her out of this place, she will die. I have plenty of other materials but need wagons and teams," 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "God be with you, Brother Neibaur, I wish I could see every Latter-day Saint show the same determined spirit. You go to Sister Knight and tell her to let you have her wagons and teams and then you can send them back to her with the returning elders in the summer. You can pay her by giving her a good cow or whatever trade you may both agree upon." When he visited the widow Lydia Knight she was loth to give up her own plan of going to the Valley, but when she knew that President Young had advised it, she said, "Yes, certainly," and thus it was arranged. There was still another yoke of oxen required, and this was obtained from Joseph Young. Thus the teams were made up of one good yoke of oxen as wheelers, a yoke in the lead consisting of one cow and one ox, while a yoke of cows went in between. It was a good outfit, and out of the six cows owned by Elder Neibaur, he paid two, one to Joseph Young and one to Sister Knight on their coming into the Valley. And thus they came, the unaccustomed hands of the Jewish scholar holding the whip which guided the great oxen, while his wife trudged along holding the rope which went over the cow's horns, and carrying a baby in her arms. The pity and the glory of such epics of pioneer travel! When once in the Valley, Elder Neibaur shared the toils and the privations of pioneer life here. He was not fitted for hard or difficult labor, but he was industrious and he did as did his associates, made the best of all his opportunities. He did not go in'o debt nor was he a burden to any one. He taught his family to honor the God of the Former and Latter-day Saints. He taught them lessons of morality, of frugality, and of honesty and independence. Elder Neibaur made the adobes for his own house which was the crude one-roomed, mud-roofed affair of those very primitive days. He added a log lean-to afterwards. Then as his fortunes mended, he later built him a good adobe house on Second South and Second East where he reared his large and industrious family. He was the pioneer dentist of Salt Lake City, he was also the pioneer match manufacturer. He made good matches at a time when such things were the luxuries of the rich, for the poor or the very frugal lighted their candles with twisted lighters or a coal from the fireplace. Elder Neibaur was also engaged each winter for some years in teaching German classes. He was himself an accomplished linguist. He spoke seven languages. English, he mastered, of course. He read Latin and Greek and of course spoke and wrote Hebrew fluently. Then he had-some knowledge of Spanish and knew French well, so that he was ALEXANDER NEIBAUR 141 " consulted by the early Utah students and writers of those ays. Elder Neibaur married two good women. He lost his first wife December 14th, 1870, she being the mother of all his children. Four sons and seven daughters grew to manhood and womanhood, and reared large families. Elder Neibaur himself lived till the 15th of December, 1883. He died in Salt Lake City, Utah. He was the father of fourteen children, eighty-three grand-children and thirteen great grand-children. Today his flock numbers four hundred and twenty-seven. Surely he was like David of old, blessed beyond men, for his quiver was filled with his descendants. Shortly before his death his son said to him, "Father you have been telling us of your long and hard experience, and we have listened with intense affection and interest. But let me ask you, is it worth it all? Is the gospel worth all this sacrifice?" The glow of testimony and of truth lighted the torches in the dimming eyes of that ancient Hebrew prophet and poet and he lifted his voice in firm and lofty assurance as he said: "Yes! Yes! And more! I have seen my Savior. I have seen the prints in his hands! I know that Jesus is the Son of God, and I know that this work is true and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I would suffer it all and more, far more than I have ever suffered for that knowledge even to the laying down of my body on the plains for the wolves to devour." Elder Neibaur was paralyzed for three weeks before his death and yet his mind was not dimmed. A short time before the end, his face suddenly lit up and his countenance brightened. He cast his eyes upward as if he could see far into upper distant spaces. "What do you see, father?" they asked. The dying man murmured clearly, "Joseph—Hyrum—" then his weary eyes closed to open in the heavenly home of the Saints and prophets. With the burning testimony of truth on his lips he closed his life mission, laid down his body, and his soul went to meet and mingle with the redeemed of God. He was a soldier of the Cross, and his armor was never removed, only concealed under the common vesture of a toiler among men. He had lived for truth, had struggled and contended for that precious heritage of liberty so long denied his race, and he was prepared to carry on his work of teaching and instructing his kindred dead in the glorious realms of Light and Truth. Who can say what work he has not already accomplished? Who can declare the results of his labors or the weight of his perfect testimony. Of such is the kingdom of heaven. A Mother's Plea Louise Gulbransen For twelve long years I was a wife With mate to shield me from all strife, Blest with the gift of motherhood, The greatest gift bestowed by God, Those rosy, bright-eyed boys and girls, To cheer me with their wiles and curls. Then came a tempter to our home, Upon destruction bent, And called to aid some fiends on earth, And willing hands they lent. Without remorse they planned and fought To overrule. What God had wrought, And knowing this, there still are some Condone the work that they have done. No friend unto the rescue came, As undisturbed they played their game, Love, honor perished, reason died, As my companion left my side. Crushed, wounded, friendless, then alone, The fiends at last had wrecked my home, And satisfied they then returned To steal from me the prize I'd earned. And years of sacrifice I spent On treasures thus from Heaven sent Yet without mercy they have torn Those gifts with suffering I have borne. Mercy and justice God gives men, Deny them this, what happens then? Can this be justice? Will you say That now there is no other way? Then you this measure must receive, Since you deny me in my need. Shall motherhood be thus denied, Her love of offspring cast aside, Did Jesus only die for some, Denying others what they won? Unfeeling souls, restore to me Those gifts by Heaven decreed to be Mine for time and all eternity. Or must I suffer still and wait? Tf so, what then will be your fate? Have God's commandments come to naught, His teaching in your life forgot? The greatest law you put on shelf, 'Tis "love thy neighbor as thyself." Bubbles and Troubles Ruth Moench Bell CHAPTER V. Rhea went home and was glad to be hustled off to the coast. T was plain that if her father and mother had talked things over they had arrived at no amiable conclusions. Her father's sarcastic disapproval of all her mother said or did, the mother's sneering indifference, the fact that her presence was almost totally ignored, combined to make the few meals and few minutes spent together almost intolerable. Her father, usually so affectionate and proud of his daughter, seemed to have allowed his resentment against his wife to sour or chill his regard for his only child. This was, indeed, the hardest phase of this new condition for Rhea. "I'd rather go back to Aunt Edith's," she pleaded with her mother. "She needs me. They will have to take such good care of Ralph and Ruth for weeks yet." "Your future is at stake," Mrs. Leslie replied haughtily. "Tf 1 left you out there you are just at the impressionable age and very soon you would be falling in love with some common person and ruin your chances for life." "But Marjory's beau, gentleman friend, I mean, the young man she steps out with, is not common. He is good and kind and honest. Anyone can see he worships Mugs." Mrs. Leslie turned on her daughter. "Do you mean to tell me that infant, Marjory, is actually 'stepping out' with a young man? Why, she is barely eighteen." "But what is the difference if he is a good man and they love each other?" "Tt may be all right for Marjory to settle down in that stuffy little town and become narrow-minded and—" "But Aunt Edith is not narrow-minded,' Rhea defended. "Tf any one is opend-minded enough to learn and see things in a different light one is not narrow-minded." "I want you to have a chance to meet the world," Mrs. Leslie cut the argument short. At parting, Rhea's papa gave her a brief, absent-minded kiss. He did not even glance in the direction of his wife; but deposited their bags and left the tra'n abruptly. Rhea longed to clasp her arms about his neck and kiss the vexed, worried look from his face but dared not. She watched him leave the train and walk 144 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE across the platform to their car. Her eyes smarted with tears when he started the car off without a backward glance at her. "T can't bear it, mother," she cried. "Oh, he's no business acting so,' Mrs. Leslie snapped. However, she, too, seemed gloomy till the train was in motion. Soon people began making themselves at home for the long trip. Greetings were exchanged and soon Mrs. Leslie was her usual charming self. Rhea, looking on with thoughts only for her father and their broken home life, commented to herself as she saw her mother chatting over the little train commonplaces every traveler indulges in. "Mama is lovely socially. She has so much charm and social tact. I don't wonder every one loves her. Every one except papa. And other men seem to find her so charming." One of these other men, when they reached the coast, seemed to find Mrs. Leslie so charming that Rhea, in alarm, made a little plan of her own. "T know all about women," this blase young man of perhaps thirty-five years, remarked caustically. "I know all their tricks. They can't fool me any more." Rhea was an exotic in this artificial setting and she took the dare. Before Mrs. Leslie was aware that Rhea, too, had charm and a certain saucy p: quancy with youth and a distinction all her own, Barney Graham, who knew all the tricks of the sex and hence was vulnerable to none, was trailing Rhea about dazzled and fascinated, completely under her spell. "Tt's got to cease," Mrs. Leslie remonstrated after an evening of coquetry in which the young girl had shown herself an apt pupil of the set about her. "I'll take you home at once unless you leave him entirely alone." To Mrs. Leslie's amazement, Rhea drew herself up with a hauteur which matched her own. "It is too late, Mamma," she observed quietly. "I can't leave him alone.. I love him. Don't look so, Mama, I only meant to jar him a little. He was so sure of himself. And I wanted to get him away from you for papa's sake. I can't bear to see other men pay you attentions and see you dance with them, half-dressed as you women are, especially when papa isn't here. And now I love him myself, Mama. He's had such a sad life. False women have made him feel that all women are false. I want to make up to him for all the happiness he has missed." "Rhea," Mrs. Lesfie exclaimed, as she sank helplessly onto a chair, "he is thirty-five or more. He is already grey about the temples, and only a vaudeville actor, the most uncertain profession in the world. You shall not have him. I shall forbid him to speak to you again." "qt is too late, Mama. We are already engaged to be matried. And he has already left on one of hs tripsHe will "Pe says he knows! Have talent. And we have rehearsed our act several times." "Rhea! Pll wire your father tonight." "Oh, by the way, there is a letter from papa's attorneytt " "Fyrom his attorney y' Mrs. Leslie went white. She read the mssive with shaking fingers. Then she covered her face with Rhea flew t° her side. "what is it Mama! What is it? Ings," Mrs. Leslie cried in dull tones. "PD; ivorce y' Rhea shrank from the word as if it were tainted. Tt was an ugly word like murder, and perjury and theft. Words jee. "All we can do is to hurry home and keep him from cutting us off without a penny." "Oh, the pennies," Rhea shivered, remembering her papa's croubled face as she Jast saw it. "Ts that all papa means to you: ome day will Barney be to me only 2 meal ticket? "Surely you will stop that nonsense now," the mother 2Ppapa. But I can't give him up. Papa would not ask it if he knew I Joved him. Barney is all there is in the world for me now. Home wouldn't be home without papaVil have to mak "Other women of meats spend their winters in California," Mrs. Lesl'e cried. "There is 10 reason why We should stick in that poky. Little town. Others can make 2 living in California. "T wish 1 had got off the train and gone pack with papa as do," Rhea purst out. "lve hated to be taken off like this spending money Pap works hard to get, while he js home 146 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE lonely eating his meals at restaurants and coming home weary to an empty house. I wish I had done as I felt and gone back. Oh, then I'd never have met—" "Yes, then you'd never have met Barney Graham except across the foot-lights." "Mama." Rhea exclaimed indignantly. "You've chased bubbles so long you can't see how real Barney is to me or how real papa's wishes and troubles are. And all these people who purr around you now and whom you try to be like wouldn't nurse us through a fever if our lives depended upon them. They wouldn't lend us five dollars if we were starving. It is all pretense and sham. They are just playing at living. All papa has wanted was a real home. And I'll see that Barney has one when we earn enough money that we can settle down." CHAPTER VI. Mrs. Leslie gave up her flat and began paying bills. An early date had been set and she knew she must hasten home te combat the divorce or to see at least that she was granted suitable alimony. Outstanding bills were much more numerous than she had supposed. It became necessary to part with furs and jewels. Even then after she had turned into cash everything for which she could be paid cash, there was not enough to take Rhea and herself home on the train even though they traveled in the day coach and ate nothing. She must raise twenty-five dollars more for their tickets. To endure the humiliation of attempting to borrow from friends was the crowning bitterness for Ethel Leslie. To attempt and fail, as Rhea had pred'cted, was even more humiliating. The three most intimately devoted friends were approached and declined with deepest regret. They all were, or professed to be, short of funds just them. What should she do? Finally after days of despairing chagrin she received a letter from her husband with a small check, sufficient, however, to see them through. He had been too tender to allow her real suffering or perhaps it was on account of Rhea that he sent it. Once at home, Rhea flew directly to her father to plead with him to desist. He was not living at home but with his mother. He was glad to see her, though not as warmly affectionate as had been his wont. Rhea could see that he was wormed and preoccupied. "Divorce and suicide have always seemed weak and unnecessary," Rhea cried. "Not always, daughter. I've tried everything else. There BUBBLES AND TROUBLES - 147 seems no other way to check your mother's extravagance and bring her to her senses. One month of such drains as her expend'tures in California and the business would go to the wall. 1 may have waited too long now to save it. As long as your mother can draw on me she will do no differently. She is determined to hold her own with that set of millionaires who can afford the pace. Bes'des what have I to lose?" he added bitterly. "Five months in the year she is at the beach. The rest of the time our home is turned over to bridge luncheons, or dancing parties, or a few friends are in to tea. At such times I am allowed such bird-cage diet as the function leaves out on the kitchen table. If there is nothing gong on here she comes home way after the dinner hour from some 'select' affair, and I am tossed out some warmed up canned stuff or any thing the cook feels like giving me, or I am supposed to don a dress suit and dance till one o'clock with people who can sleep the next day while I am trying to deal with bus'ness men naturally shrewd and rested, besides, from a good night's sleep. I'm tired of it, that's all. I've tried for years to change things but they have gone from bad to worse steadily." Rhea could see that her father's m'nd was made up and nothing would change it. She wanted to tell him of her lover but felt shy and reticent. Mrs. Leslie was neither shy or reticent about the matter. She was determined that her husband should know about "the unfortunate affair," as she termed it, feel'ng confident that he would use his efforts to stop it. She hoped, too, to re-kindle his love for herself and so prevent the divorce. But she soon saw that the latter hope was futile. He was as cold and formal as with an utter stranger. She plunged, therefore, at once into an account of Rhea's lover. "What can you expect?" he rapped out. "Place a young, impressionable girl in an unnatural atmosphere like that and she does an unnatural thing like falling in love with a man fifteen years her senior." "Aren't you going to prevent it," Mrs. Leslie asked in dismay. "What can I do to undo what you have done? It is already too late. It is Rhea's nature to give herself whole-heartedly to some one whom she thinks needs her. If she fancies herself in love, nothing but time will prove to her whether she was really in love or just thought she was. No one is to blame but yourself. Unfortunately Rhea may pay the price." h By we needn't give up yet? Surely something may be one?" 148 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "A visit to a real home might help. Better send her up to her Aunt Edith's till the divorce proceedings are over." Aunt Edith won Rhea's heart at once by lack of opposition. Aunt Edith meant to try other tactics. "I like his face," Aunt Edith decided when she gazed at h's photos. "The disparity in years will give you more concern later than now. It is the uncertainties of his profession I deplore." "Oh, I shall enjoy that," Rhea declared. 'He says sometimes they have plenty and sometimes neither food or a place to eat. At times they are the darlings of the public and then again no manager will consider them at all. It is the uncertainties I dote on. It will be so romantic and thrilling to pawn your watch for a meal or your coat for a place to sleep. It will be as exciting as a game to put all your stakes just on a meal and lose and have to go hungry to bed." "That might be all right for youth," Aunt Edith conceded. "But when you are older, certainties will appeal to you more, J imagine. But there is no hurry. Just as well take plenty of time to test your feelings and his." "There would be no hurry if I had a home but that is all broken up now, so we have planned to be married right away," Rhea smiled sadly. "Oh, I don't want you to think I am sad because of marrying Barney. I'm sad on account of papa and Mama. It's going to be wonderful to marry and go right on the stage." Marjory listened in rapt attention. The daring and enthusiasm of youth were in Rhea's tones. It seemed almost prosa'c tc Marjory to just wed a boy she had known all her life, her first and only beau. And rent a few rooms and keep house and be sure of every meal and always come back to the same place. No adventtire in it at all. Aunt Edith, however, listened in some alarm. Was the week Rhea had spent in her home following the children's accident, a revelation of the real Rhea? Or was this flighty bit of fancy Rhea? Was Rhea growing to be like her mother, and would her marriage end in disaster also? (To be continued.) Uncommon Honesty By Milton Bennion People generally do not steal from their neighbors or other individuals, but many people of good repute will steal from a public service corporation as often as opportunity affords. This is so customary in railroad passenger service that conductors are surprised to find half fares and full fare paid voluntarily in accordance with ages. This is illustrated in a remark once made by a conductor to the head of a family, "You are pretty well ticketed, aren't you?' "I do not want to cheat the railroad company," was the reply. "Well," said the conductor, "You're one in a thousand, you ought to be in Congress." To carry through sttch a graft, it takes a lie to come to the support of its twin sister, theft; for innocent children must be trained to lie about their ages, in case the question is raised— so trained by the same parents and guardians who are responsible for training them in honesty and truthfulness. A somewhat more common form of the same sort of stealing is the traffic in streetcar transfers, indulged in both by adults and children; most of whom are wholly unaware of the fact that they are violating a contract between the public and the streetcar company. While the money value in each case is small, it is upon the accumulation of just such small values that the success or the failure of the company depends. This, however, is quite secondary to the fact that this illicit traffic involves the essential elements both of lying and stealing. The receiver is as guilty as the giver. Is not one's sense of honor worth more than seven cents? In case of the so-called "white lie," this lie may be customary in polite society, but from a moral point of view it is not different in color from other members of its species. This does not mean that in polite society, or any where else, people are morally bound to reveal bluntly all the brutal facts they happen to know. It is well to be polite and tactful, but this need not be at the expense of being truthful. Neither are people under ebligation to proclaim confidential knowledge committed to them, or other matters of a personal and private nature. Such mat: ters may remain secluded in the consciousness of those concerned. There need, however, be no attempt to conceal them with lies, Who has not received pleasant promises in response to a request, only to find later the giver of the promise 150 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE this is the habit of some people even in very responsible public places. Insincere promises and studied flattery, as means of securing the goodwill of others, ultimately react to the discredit of the one who adopts such methods. It does not pay, to say nothing of being dishonest. How often does it happen that unwelcome callers are met with feigned welcome and insincere affability, followed, after their departure, with expressions of quite the reverse nature. What may the children of the household think of such an exhibition on the part of the mother, whose business it is to teach them honesty? Do children reason? Much more than we give them credit for. Also they are more responsive to example than to precept. If uncommon honesty is not essential to their parents, why should children conform to the requirements of honesty at all? I Am Going Back to Father Marie Jensen I met a youth on the road of life, Who had journeyed far from home; He had longed to see the busy world, He had always longed to roam. But his heart grew sad, as his youth went by, And he sighed for his place of birth, As he said, "I'm going home to father 'Tis the dearest spot on earth." An old man bent with the weight of years, Was toiling along life's road; His youth had faded, his step was slow, As he bent beneath his load. But he carried its weight, as he climbed life's hill, With a heart of faith in God. He was going back to his Father When he had passed beneath his rod. There are many today with hope struggling on, They feel not the load they bear, They accept what God doth send them, Be it pleasure or bitter care; They carry life's ill with a happy heart And try to forget its pain, For they know when its struggle is ended They will all go home again. Basalt, Idaho | Hotel Utah Food Combinations Louis J. Thew—Chef COMBINATION CHAFING DISH; UTAH Take fresh vegetables, such as peas, asparagus tips, cauliflower and spinach, place same in a sauteuse and heat in oven. Put a medaillon of sweet breads in center of mound of peas fitting "he chafing dish, and a border of scrambled eggs, around same place. The vegetables, in the space around the sweet breads and scrambled eggs. Pour hot brown butter over and serve. FINNAN HADDIE—MY FANCY Take the thick part of half finnan haddie; remove all skin and bones; parboil it by putting it into a pan of cold water, and let it come to a boil, remove it. Place in a baking dish and put some nice round sliced potatoes all around it, add enough double pure cream to cover the fish, sprinkle with fine grated swiss cheese and a little paprica, put the dish into a hot oven and bake until the top is a nice light brown. THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING A LA UTAH To two pints of Mayonnaise add and mix well, two chopped hard boiled eggs; chopped boiled beets, olives and tea spoonful Worcestershire sauce; two cups of chilli sauce, salt and pepper to taste. SOUFFLE—VANILLA Put two ounces of butter into a pan. When warm add two ounces of flour, mixed well, then add one and one half pint of milk and two ounces of sugar; let it come to a boil, then add the yolks of six eggs, stir the milk until the eggs have thickened (must not boil) add one spoonful vanilla flavoring, beat the white of six eggs, very stiff, mix slowly with the latter pour into a buttered baking dish, bake slowly in a moderately hot oven for fifteen minutes. When baked must be served at once. Any other kind of flavoring can be used instead of vanilla. AU GRATIN POTATOES—DAUPHINAISE Rub an earthenware baking dish with garlic, spread some soft butter all over, place a layer of raw potatoes sliced thin, and a layer of grated swiss cheese, season every layer with salt and pepper, to a quart of milk or cream, beat two raw eggs and pour enough over the potatoes to cover. Add a few small pieces of butter and bake about 35 minutes in a moderately hot oven. Women and the Disarmament Conference Nancy A. Leatherwood We have passed through auspicious days, since last November eleventh. What an appropriate setting was that sublime Arlington ceremonial over the Unknown Dead for a Disarmament Council, when hundreds of thousands of people from the hillocks and valleys around Arlington, led by their President, repeated the Lord's Prayer in which the listening thousands of New York City joined. The Disarmament Conference opened amid the prayers of the world. Mich has been accomplished and more is expected. Secretary Hughes placed before the Conference a definite plan of limiting armament, which had been derived from exact scientific calculations. One man said he had worked sixteen hours a day for six weeks to get one fact for Mr. Hughes' plan. Other nations had to make their calculations, each country for itself, and this took time. Then great compromises have to be made, which go to the very soul of nations' ideals and aspirations. This Conference is not one of aggrandizement but of giving up for humanity's sake. Delegates have to pause and get instructions from their governments before they can agree to give up national hopes. There are factors in all the countries which are using every means to arouse popular discontent and opposition to the Conference. The forces which live and prosper by war and human suffering are powerful, and will not willingly see navies and armies decreased. These elements in all countries say "nothing is being accomplished." They misrepresent facts and distort truths, and attempt to create discord between the nations in conference. Americans must hold fast to their desire for peace.. The good women of America must not cease their prayers and lahors. They should continue to send letters to the President, congressmen and senators. Let them know that you are not faltering, that peace is as dear today as on November eleventh. Western civilization is on trial. If disarmament fails, the white race is doomed. For a century our greatest interest in science was its inventions of destruction. We hailed each infernal device as a triumph and gloated over our armament. If the white race and WOMEN AND DISARMAMENT CONFERENCE 153 western civilization is to exist we must turn our thoughts to a reasonable reduction of armament and of building life preserving institutions. If attaining peace is the ideal of the nations, peace will come. Here comes the work of the women. They are the moulders and perpetuators of ideals. The women of our land are hard at their task. The four conspicuous women who were placed on the Advisory Council have worked eight hours a day on their committees. Each woman was placed on a committee. Mrs. Thomas G. Winter and Mrs. Bird are on the General Information Committee. Papers, magazines, bulletins, and so on, were reviewed each day, and the clippings which related in any way to the Conference or its problems were catalogued for use. Another woman is on the Land Forces, another on the Far East, and Navies. Aside from these women, hundreds of women from all parts of America, have been working and planning so as to bring the women of the different delegations together in the ways which shall establish friendships and eliminate prejudices. They have earnestly striven to bring the foreign women to understand the American, and to realize what our purposes and ideals are, and above all to make them realize that the American people are friends to all other peoples. So well-has that been done that when one of the Chinese delegates addressed the Congressional Club, some of the Chinese delegates said to him, "Now is your chance to appeal to the wives of the Congressmen and Senators and they will bring the men in line for China.' The speaker replied, "You are mistaken, the American women are already our friends." There are large numbers of newspaper women who are exerting a great influence on popular opinion. There are scores of feature writers from every place. Most of these women are giving kindly, helpful aid to all who are working for the success of the Conference, through their bright interpretations. To be sure there are a few women writers who are knocking and being prophets of gloom. There is another class of writers who are inconspicuous but very useful. No man of prominence can write all the statements and greetings, etc., that he is asked for and do his work also; hence, many of them call a clever woman whose research work is accurate, whose conclusions are reliable, and whose interpretations are clear and true. She takes the man's ideas if he has any, and develops the article. Many of the outside speeches and talks are prepared in this way by scholarly writers who are little known to the world. Among the interesting writers is Mrs. Hopkins, of Virginia, 154 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE who is doing special story work about women. I met her yesterday at a luncheon at the League of Pen Women's Club House. I was a guest of Mrs. Susie Root Rhodes, a former Utah woman, who is on the Washington Board of Education and one of the women writers of Washington. She will be remembered as the - author of President Lorenzo Snow's biographical note, which was used by the American press at the time of his death. Mrs. Rhodes is trying to help solve the complex educational problems of Washington. Another delightful woman, who is greatly interested in the Conference, is Madam Peter, the charming wife of the Switzerland minister. A few days ago, she said to me, "Oh, I like your beautiful Salt Lake City. We had a very enjoyable visit there." Another foreign woman present said, "O, I have heard of that beautiful, clean city." So the women of the world are coming' to know all our land, and such organizations as the General Federation of Women's Clubs, The Association of University Women and Pen Women's League, are establishing international committees to promote mutual understanding between the lay women of all lands, for the cause of peace and human good. Sunshine on the Peak Nina B. McKean The storm brooded low o'er the valley, Enveloped my soul as a shroud: The city was covered with shadows, Close crept round my spirit the cloud. But e'en as the rain clouds grew blacker, Round my heart grew still thicker the pall, I lifted my eyes to the mountains, To the peak reaching highest of all. My heart leaped high with rejoicing, For there on the calm mountain sod, Was a patch of most radiant sunshine: And I called it a token from God. And ever in memory I see it, When my heart falls again in despond, That sunshine that lay on the mountain Brings a promise of light from beyond. The General Procession James H. Anderson In India, the insurrections became so general in January, as to be of extremely serious concern to the British government. An Irish world conference assembled in Paris, France, in January, being not only Irish but radically anti-British. 40,000 "bootleggers" were arrested in the United States in 1921, and 600,000,000 gallons of intoxicating liquors seized and destroyed. The Irish parliament ratified the treaty with Great Britain on January 7, thereby constituting the south of Ireland the Irish Free State. Banditry in the United States at the opening of 1922 had assumed larger proportions than ever before known in the nation's history. Numerous incendiary fires throughout the United States in January indicate a deliberate policy in some quarter of destroying property, especially that of public corporations. The Seventh-Day Adventists are to hold a conference in San Francisco, Cal., May 11 to 30, at which 110 states and rations are to be represented. The new revenue law in the United States is highly favorable to men with families, in lightening the burden of taxation, by exemptions. France and Great Britain developed their differences to a material extent in January, from distinct points of view over the German situation. Germany and Russia had diplomatic conferences in January, thus exciting western Europe to the view of a possible alliance against the latter. European nations at war in January were Greece with 156 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Turkey, Russia with the Karelians, and Spain with the Moroccans. Standard Food grains were less in quantity in America in January than for several years, while the European supply had increased greatly. Scotland was being agitated in January, over the question of that country separating from and becoming independent of England. There were no violent outbreaks. Dr. Fritjoff of Nansen, of the Russian relief commission, reports in January that from twelve to fifteen million people in that country would starve to death this winter, despite all means of relief. The Juarez Stake L. D. S. Academy, Mexico, did not suspend its operations during the recent disturbances in Mexico, statements to the contrary taken from Salt Lake papers being incorrect. Viscount James Bryce, former ambassador from Great Britain to the United States died on Jan. 22, He was well known by many Utah people, to whom he was a staunch friend. Pope Benedict XV, supreme pontiff of the Roman Catholic church, died at Rome, Italy, on January 22, of pneumonia. During his control, the interests of the Catholic church were enhanced materially. Egypt was troubled in January with a serious upheaval against the British protectorate, and several hundred lives were lost at Cairo. Egypt probably will be given independence from Great Britain. Strikes of great extent are threatened in the United States in April, many of those who are urging workmen to strike also being quite free in declaring their purpose to "Russianize the United States.", Italy and Spain were at strained relations with France in January, even more so than is France with Great Britain. Their difference has a religious rather than an economic phase. In London, England, in January, a rule was adopted provid- THE GENERAL PROCESSION 157 ing that children under 16 years of age could not attend moving picture shows unless accompanied by mature guardians. William W. Riter, one of Utah's pioneers, who has been a pillar of strength in the financial, industrial, and educational affairs of the state, died in Salt Lake City on January 17. He came to Utah in 1847, then a young man. Rev. D. S. Tuttle, head of the Protestant Episcopal church in America, publicly declared in January that diplomatic world conferences would not bring international peace; his statement was that "pure Christianity is the only force which can attain the desirable end." In France, in January, the ministry of Aristide Briand was overthrown and a new ministry formed under Raymond Poincare, former French president. Thus far, the change has not improved the peaceful outlook for Europe. The ninetieth birthday anniversary of President Charles W. Penrose, of the First Presidency of the "Mormon" Church, and a remarkably capable and diligent preacher of the gospel, was generally observed on Sunday, February 5, by services throughout of the various stakes of Zion, under the able direction of the Genealogical Society of Utah. At Washington, D. C., on January 28, the roof of the Knickerbocker moving picture theatre collapsed with the heavy weight of two and a half feet of snow, killing 112 people and injuring 141 others. One of the killed was Guy S. Eldredge of Salt Lake City, brother-in-law to Senator Reed Smoot. At Jerusalem, on December 9, 1921, for the first time in more than 20 centuries, the Jews issued from there a proclamation of a joyous character, calling attention to the great progress in the "homeland" in the preceding four years, and noting the rapid course of events, as compared with the previous epochs of Israel's history. The National Geographic Magazine for February, 1922, in a series of interesting articles on America ancient and modern, commences the opening article with this significant statement: "During the first millennium before Christ, while yet our own forebears of Northern Europe were plunged in the depths of barbarism, there developed somewhere in Middle America, prob- 158 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ably on the gulf coast of southern Mexico, a great aboriginal civilization called the Maya, which was destined to become the most brilliant expression of the ancient American mind." What Women are Doing A woman's bank has been organized at Cleveland, Ohio, all the employes and officers, from janitor to president, being women. The wedding dress of Princess Mary of England is made of cloth of gold from India, the material having been obtained by her mother several years ago. In figuring the length of time used in an average life in personal dressing, Dean Inge, of St. Paul's church in London, England, computes the time taken by women at ten years and by men at two years. Mrs. Margaret Reuff, an American society girl of New York, who married Andre Reuff, a prominent Frenchman, has issued a warning to American girls to "beware of foreigners as husbands." Mrs. Marx E. Oberndorfer of Chicago, national music chairman of the General Federation, has started a vigorous and persistent crusade against "jazz" music in schools and other public institutions. In Japan, at the present session of parliament, the question of equal suffrage has become markedly prominent, with the probability that the granting of suffrage to women will be deferred for several years. Miss Frances Nikawa, a young woman of the Cree branch of the Blackfeet Indian tribe, Canada, created somewhat of a furore in London, England, in January, by her remarkable dramatic talent in theatrical performances there. Mrs. Harding, wife of President Harding, made an impressive address to a large audience of women in New York on January 14, urging "effective and unremitting efforts at organization, education and civic training among women." Dr. Clara S. Seippel, the eminent woman specialist of Chi- THE GENERAL PROCESSION 159 cago, Illinois, in a public announcement made in January, says that "the sturdy type of American womanhood is becoming extinct through too much candy and a too flimsy garb." Dr. Amy Kankonen, 23, mayor of Fairport, Ohio, and the youngest mayor in the United States, "cleaned out" the numerous "bootleggers" in her town in a vigorous crusade in October, November and December by keeping at it relentlessly. Mrs. Thomas Wintringham, the first British-born woman elected to the British parliament, made her maiden speech there in January, on the subject of economy with public funds, giving a particularly strong showing of facts and logic. She has a clear, pleasant voice, and maintained the attention of her educated and critical audience., Mrs. Mary McFadden, mayor of Magnetic Springs, Ohio, 80 years of age and the oldest mayor in the United States, is meeting with success in driving "bootleggers" and male "vamps"' ott of the town. As to paucity of female wardrobe, she says that "if the girls come to wearing belts, they must wear wide ones." Miss Inez Chang, a Chinese young lady who has received a liberal education in a New York university, left for China in January. Her coming there is a topic of general discussion, for the reason that she is making a notable innovation in Chinese customs by engaging in the export and import business, ideas which she gained by practical experience in America. Evangeline Booth, national commander. Of the Salvation Army, in a public address at San Francisco, Cal., on January 25, gave much sensible and practical advice to women in the western part of the United States, saying among other things that 'skirts should be five or six inches above the ground," and that "too many women today destroy their true womanliness by immodest dressing, and have only themselves to blame when their characters are questioned." Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman LEADERSHIP WEEK AT THE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Leadership Week at the B. Y. U., January 23 to 27 inclusive, was most interesting and inspiring throughout. The attendance was remarkable, there being registered during the week between 1600 and 1800 stake and local leaders, from the adjacent stakes and wards. This gratifying response to the opportunity extended by the University, gives evidence of the desire on the part of stake and local Church workers, to raise the standard of the work of their organizations, and it also shows an earnest desire for spiritual and educational uplift. Such a feast of good things was offered that one was almost bewildered at the outset. There were general sessions where topics of interest to all were discussed by some of our ablest speakers; there were regular department meetings or classes where specialized instruction was given, under direction of the college professors; and there were delightful social entertainments, consisting of get-acquainted parties, musicals, theatricals, pageants and band concerts. Each day a delicious luncheon was served in the cafeteria, where most of the service was given voluntarily by the charming young women of the institution. The distinctive feature of Leadership Week was the spirited and faith-promoting address by President Heber J. Grant on Wednesday the 25, in College Hall. For over an hour the vast audience listened to him in breathless silence. His earnestness, sincerity, and convincing testimony, touched and thrilled the hearts of all wtho heard him, and they went away strengthened in determination, in faith, and in testimony. Many who came for this special occasion were unfortunate in not being able to secure seats or even standing room in College Hall, and it was necessary to arrange for an overflow meeting which was held in ~ the Library. There were nineteen departments in all, including a department for each of the Auxiliary Organizations of the Church. They were as follows: Priesthood, Relief Society, Sunday School, M. I. A., Primary, Religion Class, Teacher Training: Pre-Adolescent Section, Adolescent Section, Adult Section; Genealogy, ~ Social and Recreational Leadership, Scout Leaders, Bee Hive Leaders, Home Making, Public Speaking, Business Administration, Missionary Course, Pageantry, Health Work, Music, Pre- NOTES FROM THE FIELD. Lei siding Officers. In the meetings of the auxiliary groups tlic regular work of each organization was presented by both lecture and open forum, the latter providing excellent opportunity for discussing pressing and perplexing problems, as they were presented by local workers. It was necessary to hold many of the department meetings simultaneously. Special effort was made, however, by the University authorities to avoid conflict between departments where subjects were closely related. The Relief Society Division was in charge of Dean John C. Swenson, and General Relief Society President Clarissa S. Williams. President Williams was assisted and supported throughout the entire week by her counselors, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight and Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, both of whom attended every session. Other board members in attendance were as follows: Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Miss Lillian Cameron, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter, Mrs. Julia A. Child, Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith. Mrs. Gates was present as the senior member of the Board of Trustees and assisted Professor Partridge in the very excellent and crowded sessions of the Genealogical Department. Aside from the instructions and inspiring remarks by members of the General Board, the following definite course of lectures was outlined: Introduction to the Course, Bishop C. W. Nibley, President Clarissa S. Williams; Background of Relief Work, Dean Swenson; Right to Live, Standards of Living, Problems in Community Welfare, Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, General Secretary Relief Society; Qualifications of Charity Worker, Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, President Utah Stake Relief Society; What to Do and How, Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, Counselor in Utah Stake Relief Society and Executive Secretary of Community Welfare Department of Utah Stake; Essentials of a Happy Home, and The Boy and His Gang, by Dr. E. E. Erickson, University of Utah; Open Forum. It was regretted very keenly by Relief Society workers that Presiding Bishop C. W. Nibley, who was scheduled to give the opening address of the convention, was unable to be present. He was out of the state at the time and did not return until the end of the week. President Williams, in her addresses, emphasized especially the importance and necessity of close cooperation in relief work between the Bishop and the Relief Society Ward President. Out of her rich experience as a ward president, in which capacity she served under three different bishops, Mrs. Williams learned conclusively that the most effective work and the best results obtain where the Bishop and the Relief Society President have a thor- 162 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ough understanding and unity of plan and purpose in family welfare work. Mrs. Williams also emphasized the importance in family work of going into all situations carefully and prayerfully before treatment of any kind is given, including permanent relief. Dean Swenson, who is a specialist in sociology and related subjects, was at his best at all times, emphasizing those necessary and fundamental elements upon which successful family and community life are built. In point of attendance and interest no other group outclassed the Relief Society. There were registered in this department 212, representing the following stakes: Utah, Alpine, Nebo, Wasatch, Deseret, Tintic, Ogden, Sevier, Juab, Jordan, North Sanpete, Parowan, South Davis, Juarez, Uintah. Of the special entertainments given during the institute, none were more interesting and appealing, particularly to Relief Society women, than the three-act play "Saza" written by Mrs. Annie D. Palmer and staged by Mr. Earl Pardoe, professor of Dramatic Art of the B. Y. U., with students of the institution in the roles. The play is a thoroughly modern problem play with a good plot well wrought out. It is the story of the rehabilitation of a family. The message is put over without being preachy or monotonous, and the interest maintained to the end. The best features of the play are the problem itself and the excellent dialogue which is snappy throughout. The success of Leadership Week at the B. Y. U. Is a great 'tribute to Dr. Frank S. Harris, the new president of the institution. The Church and the School are both fortunate to have in this position one so well trained, so vigorous, and by nature so well equipped to direct the affairs of this great Church educational institution. Dr. Harris' enthusiasm and inspiring leadership were felt in every department and in every exercise. Those in attendance were deeply grateful to President Harris and his faithful assistants and to the Church itself for providing this excellent opportunity for them to gain valuable knowledge and information, and more important even than this, for the opportunity of being caught up, as it were, where fields of vision and possibilities were opened to them. Nebo Stake. The free clinic work that has been accomplished under the direction of the Nebo Stake Relief Society Presidency, is worthy of special note. Through their untiring efforts, a number of children have been operated upon for diseased tonsils and adenoids, who otherwise would not have been attended to. Much credit is also due local physicians for the interest they manifested NOTES FROM THE FIELD 163 in this movement. The doctors, together with their nurses and members of the Stake Board, who assisted in caring for the children after they were operated on, made it possible for thirty children to enter school Jast fall in a better condition to take up their school work, than ever before. There are a number of others who will be treated in the near future under the free clinic, through the kind cooperation of the doctors with the stake Relief Society presidency. At the beginning of. The fall work, the Nebo Stake Relief Society Board gave a social in the Salem Ward meetinghouse for all the ward officers and teachers of the Relief Societies of the Stake. A splendid program had been arranged by a special program committee for the occasion. Mrs. Martha A. F. Keeler of the Utah Stake was present and gave a very interesting and helpful talk to the teachers. Refreshments were served to about 450 Relief Society workers and a very enjoyable time was spent in a social way. Those who were present will look forward to this annual occurrence. Taylor Stake. Since the vist of President Clarissa S. Williams to Taylor Stake, ward conferences have been held in all the wards. The Priesthood very kindly permitted these conferences to be held in every instance, on Sunday evening. Stake officers were present at the different meetings. The programs were excellent, each ward reported the various phases of its work and what it has accomplished. In some of the wards the Relief Society choirs did the singing, and in some instances, all the solos, duets, and choruses were taken from the Relief Society Song Book. Literature lessons on the L. D. S. Hymns and Theology Lessons were given and talks on the Social Service Work. The stake officers feel that these conferences were very successful and helpful and some of the ward presidents have reported that their attendance has been increased as a result. Beginning with the year 1922, the Relief Society of each ward in the stake will be asked to furnish two musical numbers every fourth Sunday of each month for sacrament meeting. Millard Stake. Ward conferences in the Millard Stake Relief Society have just keen completed. Through the courtesy of the stake presidency and ward bishops these conferences were held Sunday afternoons at the regular time for the Sacrament meeting. The bishops presided until after the sacrament was administered and then turned the service over to the Relief Society. Very interesting and instructive programs were given. In some of 164 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the wards in this stake, 100% of the Relief Society teachers are visiting. In one ward, every married woman in the ward is enrolled in the Relief Society. The stake officers have offered a prize to the ward getting the largest percent of subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine for 1922. REORGANIZATIONS Woodruff Stake. At the monthly stake Priesthood meeting held Friday, November 18, 1921, Mrs. Zina L. Taggart resigned from her position as president of the Relief Society of the Woodruff stake Mrs. Taggart was honorably released, and immediately after the evening meeting, the Relief Society stake board entertained those present at a social in compliment to her. A short, spicy program was rendered, after which the stake board served delicious refreshments. Mrs. Taggart was presented with a beautiful token of love and esteem from the officers of the stake board, and she will take with her to her new residence, Utah, many fond memories of pleasant associations with Woodruff stake. Mrs. Esther Thomas, of Evanston, Wyoming, has since been appointed president of the Relief Society of the Woodruff stake. She has retained the stake counselors and all of the former board members. Tooele Stake. The Tooele Stake Relief Society was reorganized on October 23, 1921. Mrs. Alice R. Roolley, who had served for twenty years as stake president, was honorably released on account of ill health, and Mrs. Maggie W. Anderson was appointed to serve in her place. Jordan Stake. On November 17, 1921, Jordan stake was reorganized. Mrs. Hilda H. Larson, who had served faithfully and well for many years, resigned her position on account of failing health, and Mrs. Elfleda Jenson was appointed to succeed her. Mrs. Larson has served twenty-two years on the Stake Relief Society Board, and twenty years as president. In honor of Mrs. Larson and the retiring board members, a social in the nature of a testimonial was given by the new stake officers and board members, when the following program was given: Singing; Invocation, President William D. Kuhre; Address of Welcome, Mrs. Mary B. Fitzgerald; Song, Mrs. Eunice Nelson; Rhymes for retiring presidency and board members, Electa Nelson; Community Singing; Remarks, President Soren Rasmussen; Presentation of gift to the retiring board by Mrs. Mania Goff; Remarks, President, Clarissa S. Williams, Counselor Louise Y. Robison, Amy B. Lyman, and Sarah M. McLelland. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motte—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - -:: President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT -: + _ First Counselor MRS. LOUISA YATES ROBISON - - - - Second Counselor MRS AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs Emma A. Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs Susa Young fics Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mies Sarah M. -McLelland ere. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron s. Cora Bennion - Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - Mrs. Susa Younc Gates Business Manager -. - - - Mrs. JEANETTE A. Hypve Assistant Manager Mrs. AMy Brown LyMAN Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. IX MARCH, 1822 No. 3 PRAYER Everybody in this Church, and most people outside, accept the principle of prayer as a saving grace. We read about it and talk much about it. But there is a lack of actual practice by members in good standing in this Church. In the majority ef our homes there is a more or less (rather less than more) regular habit of holding prayers once a day. Sometimes family prayers are held in the morning, just before breakfast, or in the evening just before dinner or bedtime. How many families do you know who have regular family prayers twice a day? If we kneel once a day in family prayers, most of us let it go at that, and our private prayers are said while on our feet, or in snatches of thought while at our daily tasks. We justify my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Till seven cere desire, uttered or unexpressed," from the well-known hynin. So it is; but the Lord did not intend to have all our praying done that way or he would not have given us the explicit instructions and admonitions we find in the Scriptures, ancient and modern. Twice a day, at least, we should appear on bended knees, in private prayers before the Throne of Grace. How many of you pray secretly twice a day? Then there is the pitiful neglect to train?train, I said? children to pray secretly twice a day. If such habits are not formed in childhood it is next to impossible to adopt the praying habit in adult life. Boys and men are especially neglected and 166 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE neglectful in this matter. How many mothers do you know who gather the little children round them, listening to the morning and evening prayer from lisping lips? Do you know any? Any grandmothers who lift this daily task from the burdened young mother's shoulders, lovingly fastening this best and most profitable habit on the souls and characters of the growing children? Are you thus helping? Prayer is not only a good and simple subject to study about, it is a living principle of life and soul growth. It is next to impossible for men and women to grow and progress in this Church without daily, regular, secret and family prayer. You will often find this neglect at the very root of the indifference and gradual apostasy of both men and women. Some who seem to shoot up like meteors in our religious sky and then fade and fall away into dim forgetfulness, often do so because of the pride, selfishness and overweening self confidence which saps the very roots of sure testimony and reliance upon God. Man cannot save himself; he can be saved?only and wholly?by leaning upon Christ and the Father in real acknowledgment of human weakness and human inability to save itself. Prayer is the pressure of our hands upon the button which connects the line between us and our Father. There is the illuminating radiance, the help and sustenance waiting, waiting for the pressure of our hand upon the communicating button. It is our fault if we fail to touch that source of power, releasing thereby the divine forces of love and comfort, of actual help and physical assistance which are ours to command. Do you pray? BOOK NOTICE The Isolation Plan, by William H. Blymyer is one of many charming good books. It is published by The Cornhill Company, 2 a Park Street, Boston, Mass., and the price is but $2. The following gives a brief outline of this excellent book: "Disarmament is the topic of the day in-all nations, and in this notable book, Mr. Blymyer sets forth a plan for an international convention under which the nations would simultaneously cease their military and naval activities and institute compulsory arbitration under the sanction of isolating any nations that refused to submit or to comply with an award until conformance." Guide Lessons for May LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First WeEEx in May) FORGIVENESS Forgiveness is the mental cancellation of a debt or obligation, incurred through wrongdoing. It is accompanied by selfcontrol and generosity and mercy. The most striking example of forgiveness known is the: prayer of the Redeemer on the cross, and one of the most apt illustration of the folly of unforgiveness is found in Matthew 18:23-35. What Humanity Says: "T pardon him, as God shall pardon me."?Shakespeare, "Richard II." "To revenge is not valour, but to bear."?Shakespeare, "Timon of Athens." "Not to relent is beastly, savage, devilish." Shakespeare, "Richard III." "To err is human, to forgive divine."?Pope. "But to have power to forgive Is empire and prerogative: And 'tis in crowns a nobler gem To grant a pardon than condemn."?Bu?tler. "Virtue is not malicious; wrong done her Is righted even when men grant they err." ?Chapman. "But, thou art good, and Goodness still Delighteth to forgive."-?Burns. "Young men soon give and soon forget affronts; Old age is slow in both."?Addison. 168 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "The kindest and the happiest pair Will find occasion to forbear; And something every day they live To pity and perhaps forgive." ?Cowper. "Being all fashioned of the self-same dust, Let us be merciful as well as just."?Longfellow. "Forgive! How many will say, "forgive" and find, A sort of absolution in the sound To hate a little longer."?-Tennyson. "There is an ugly kind of forgiveness in this world, a kind of hedge-hog forgiveness, shot out like quills; men take one who has offended and set him down before the blowpipe of their indignation and scorch him and turn his faults into him, and when they have kneaded him sufficiently with their fiery fists, then they forgive him." What Divinity Says: "T the Lord, forgive sins unto those who confess their sins before me and ask forgiveness, who have not sinned unto death. "My disciples, in the days of old, sought occasion against one another, and forgave not one another in their hearts, and for this evil they were afflicted and sorely chastened. "Wherefore I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another, for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord, for there remaineth in him the greater sin.: "J, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men, and ye ought to say in your hearts, let God judge between me and thee, and reward thee according to thy deeds."?Doctrine and Covenants, 64:7-11; 98: 40-48; Gospel Doctrine, pp. 421, 422, 423. "And ye shall also forgive one another your trespasses; for verily I say unto you, he that forgiveth not his neighbor's trespasses, when he says that he repents, the same hath brought himself under condemnation."?Book of Mormon, Mosiah 25:31. New Testament: "Forgive, and ye shall be forgiven."? Luke 6:37. "But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses."?Matt. 6:15. "Then came Peter to him and said, Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? 'Till seven times?" Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee, until seven times, but, until seventy times seven,'?Matt. 18:21-22. GUIDE LESSONS 169 Old Testament: "If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways; then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin, and will heal their land."?II Chronicles 7:14. "And our Father Adam spake unto the Lord and said, Why is it that men must repent and be baptized in water? And the Lord said unto Adam, Behold, I have forgiven thee thy transgression in the Garden of Eden."?Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, 6:53. The withholding of forgiveness in the face of repentance is unmistakable evidence of sinfulness in the one from whom forgiveness is sought. He is in a worse state than the repentant sinner from the fact that he has no promise of repentance; indeed, he is face to face with the divine declaration that God will not forgive anyone who is in an unforgiving state of mind. The unforgiving is not only in a state of theological sin, but is guilty of psychological folly. His heart is hardened and his mind is blinded by the bias of selfishness. Hate always hurts the hater more than it does the hated. Of all holdings, that of grudge holding is the most unprofitable, even family pouting never pays. Apology, which is the simplest form of expressing repentance, will be accepted just to the extent that culture has made its way into the household. At the apex of adolescence. The utmost care should be taken to avoid the exaggeration of the consequences of failure, and strong emphasis should be placed upon the glory of success. This is the age where the imagination may reach over into conscientiousness, and magnify mistakes into sins, and sins into crimes, and the fear of perdition sometimes not only befogs but literally obscures the light of hope. This accounts for the fact that this period is the one in which despair claims more suicide victims than at any other period in life. It is the period when soul-sickness is most prevalent, and the soul then needs more than anything else the tonic of forgiveness in theory and in practice. Forgiveness, however, should neither be taught nor practiced to the exclusion of a high sense of responsibility, resting upon self-respect and the respect for others. The boys were made weaklings, if they were not wicked, who could steal oranges from a fruit stand, eat them, go around a corner into an alleyway, pray God for forgiveness, and start on another raid with their consciences perfectly at ease so far as the former theft was concerned. And yet, religious training concerning God's forgiveness may be carried on counter to ethics, in a direction 170 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE exactly opposite to ethics, and produce results just such as this case indicates. Heart Forgiveness and Lip Forgiveness: When forgiveness is whole-hearted, it becomes everlasting, like God's forgiveness, and the offense, if it cannot be buried in forgetfulness, is kept in the tomb of silence, and nothing short of its identical repetition will be permitted to be resurrected in the presence of the forgiven offender or revealed to others in his absence. With the Lord's forgiveness comes the pledge that the forgiven sin shall be held no more in his remembrance, and if the forgiven sin of another fall within the range of one's remembrance, both justice and mercy require that it be not seized and held up by the hand of unkindess. The carrying of other people's faults and the confessing of other people's sins is a self-imposed task that bends us away from the line of spiritual uprightness. Taunting: Domestic taunting makes of fireside forgiveness a sort of social mockery, and should be fought to a finish by faith and works. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Discuss the proposition: Grudge-holding is the most unprofitable of holding. S 2. If the Lord had pursued the petulant policy of refusing to speak to the transgressor even before repentance, what would the first prayer have amounted to? 3. Discuss the cultural and religious value of the habit of apologies and their acceptance in the family ptayer? 4. Apply this couplet to the necessity of self-forgiveness: U "Arise, if the past detain you, Its sunshine and sorrow forget, No chain so unworthy to bind you, As those of a vain regret." 5. Give a practical illustration of Doctrine and Covenants, 64:11. 6. Show that the person who is unwilling to forgive cannot consistently partake of the bread in the sacrament service. GUIDE LESSONS 171 LESSON II. Work and Business. (Second Week in May) LESSON III. Literature. (Third Week in May) HYMNS OF ALEXANDER NEIBAUR Alexander Neibaur, a Jew, born in Ehrenbriestein, in the noted Alsace-Lorraine country, added to the noble training of the Jews the knowledge of the Messiah, and also the knowledge that the gospel had been restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. He was acquainted with the Prophet Joseph, having ' been his instructor in Hebrew and German for a season. He was the first Jew to join the Church. The greatest of all books is the Bible; judged from a purely literary point of view, it is in a class by itself. When the youth who wrote "Thanatopsis'""? was asked how he obtained his exalted style, he said, from reading the Bible and listening to my grandfather pray, who employed much of biblical phraseology in his prayer. A casual reading of the hymn, "Come, thou glorious day of promise," page 246 of the hymn book, will disclose one of two things at the outset, that its author was either a Jew, or that, through natural aptitude and intensive training, he had caught the spirit of the Jew. The diction and imagery of the hymn breathes the spirit of the Hebrew scriptures, partaking of their high literary and poetic quality. The first line is to the point, 'Come, thou glorious day of promise." To no other people does the word "promise" connote so much as to the Jews. Their great forebear, Abraham, was led by the Lord to the Land of Promise; they are very frequently referred to as a people of promise, and their future depends on the fulfilment of the promises of the Lord unto them. In other lessons and at other times we have alluded to the fact that Jewish people frequently pay the high tribute to the United States of America of calling it a "Land of Promise." Nothing could be more thoroughly natural than that the burden of this song should be a prayer to God to hasten the 172 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE day when the scattered sheep of Israel shall no longer go astray. When the anger of the Lord shall be turned from his chosen people, and the time of their unbelief and misery be brought to an end. In this prayer the poet was true to the tradition of his fathers, and true to the revelations of the Prophet Joseph. Looking toward the time when Israel shall be gathered from all nations, the Ten Tribes come forth, the Lamanites rise from darkness and degredation, and the Jews gather to Jerusalem, the Holy City. This fervent prayer, this great hope, has been lifted into the realm of poetry through the medium of great feeling, such feeling as is deeply reverent, and a choice of words rare in their appropriateness and beauty. The word "sheep," as used by Elder Neibaur, is preferable to any other word possible, for the Messiah had said, '"My sheep know my voice," and the great psalmist had chacterized his Lord as a shepherd who leadeth his sheep into green pastures. "Hosannas" is a word that comes resounding from the past, carrying with it the flavor of the Hebrew scriptures. The same thing is true of such phrases as, "Thy wrath forever burn," "Thine ancient Israel, their transgressions from them turn.' The use of the word "Jacob" is particularly good in a hymn of prayer, pleading for the redemption of Israel. So, too, the word "Messiah" is the favorite word of the Hebrew. The hymn reaches a grand climax in the lines: "Prince of Peace, o'er Israel reign." The consummation of all of Israel's hopes and indeed the hopes of all humanity will be realized when the Prince of Peace shall reign o'er Israel. Peace is the theme of the hour, it has occupied the first thought of the world's greatest statesmen for nearly a decade, there is no theme that people of every nation will attend to so quickly as this same theme of peace. Surely, even though the hour be delayed, the time is not far distant when the Prince of Peace shall reign o'er Israel. "Come, thou glorious day of promise" is a poem, meeting the standards set for poetry. 'The thought content is lofty, the emotion adequate and reverent, the diction appropriate, the imagery apt and beautiful, while the entire composition arouses memories of the holy prophets and the Messiah who came forth from the hand of God to bring redemption to the world. No estimate of this hymn can in any way be complete that neglects to mention its metrical qualities. There is beauty and dignity in the verse movements and the music of the lines, which adds to its charm and causes it to linger in the memory. On page 299 of the hymn book, we have a hymn lamenting the fate of the Jews and rejoicing in the fact that "The days GUIDE LESSONS 173 of the mourning are near at an end," "When Messiah will come" their "Redeemer and friend" "To cheer thee and bless thee and dry UP thy tears, etc. This, like "Come, thou glorious day of promise" is born of Jewish sorrow, accumulating through centuries of suffering, and lightened, too, as the first one, by the knowledge that the Messiah cometh, and that soon, with healing in his wings. Alexander Neibaur is the author of the hymn, "Let Judah rejoice," but his name does not appear as its author because, having made a few changes suggested by Parley P. Pratt, he appears to frave been too modest to lay claim to its authorship. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Have some person read, "Come, thou glorious day of promise" in its entirety to the class. 2 Why is it especially appropriate to use the word "Jacob" in speaking of Israel?, 3. Go to the dictionary and find the meaning of the worl "connote." How does its meaning throw light on words as used by the author of this hymn? 4, Select from "Thanatopsis," written by William Cullen Byrant, lines whose language reminds you of the language ? the scripture. 5. Have some one in the class read the hymn. "Let Judah rejoice." LESSON IV. Social Service (Fourth Week in May) INTELLECTUAL LEADERSHIP IN THE HOME "The glory of God is intelligence," said the Prophet Joseph. And also, in revelation, we are given the comman ment to "Seek not for riches but for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made make you free." The Jews, to whom Jesus was speaking, answefed and said, "We are 'Abraham's seed, and have never yet been 174 RELIFF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, ye shall be made free? Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, every one that committeth sin is the bondservant of sin, and the bondservant abideth not in the house forever; the son abideth forever."?St. John 8:32-35. Thus intelligence means freedom, riches of eternal life, the "Glory of God," whereas ignorance means bondage, sin and death. Our experience bears out in every respect this truth. Light and intelligence makes for righteousness and freedom, ignorance leads to sin and bondage, and is the cause of untold misery. INTELLECTUAL RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE HOME 1 ' The home is required to radiate truth and intelligence., "But I have commanded you to bring up your children in | light and truth." And this means, of course, first of all, moral and spiritual truth, the "doctrine of the kingdom," but it also means general information that can be obtained from "the best books" "Of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth;... Things which are at home, things which are abroad, the wars and perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land, and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms." Doctrine and Covenants 88:79. The ideal home is one that is broad enough in its interests to discuss and direct in all lines of general information. This does not imply that the family should know all about science and art, history, religion and government. That would be impossible. Nor does it imply that the father and mother must have a high degree of scholarship. What is wanted is an inetellectual spirit that will stimulate a desire for truth, a spirit of learning that will radiate to every member of the family group. ' Tt implies, also, that there be enough knowledge of the attainments of our civilization along lines of science, art, literature, history, etc., at least to introduce the younger members of the family to the blessings of God's revealed truth, scientific as well as religious. INTELLECTUAL FACILITIES IN THE HOME Every home should have a library which covers the field above indicated. It need not be a large one. The average home cannot afford many books, but it can afford a few good ones. In fact, twenty five books well selected may cover in a general way the world of knowledge, as it is now attained in our civili- GUIDE LESSONS 175 zation. The principal of the local school, or some well-read man in the community, may be able to offer excellent suggestions to a family planning or developing a home library. One or two good magazines dealing with current questions, such as the Literary Digest or the Atlantic Monthly, besides the publications of our Church, should serve to keep the members of a family well informed concerning the great questions of the day. In the selection of library books and magazines due regard should be taken of the various members of the family. The immature minds with their simple interest in pictures and stories should not be neglected. A recent bulletin of the University of Utah, written by Professor J. H. Paul and published by the Deseret Book Company, entitled Six Years of Home Reading contains a list of books, recommended by the author for the various ages and degrees of intelligence as we have them in the home. The book recommended covers a great variety of subjects. ADVANTAGES OF AN INTELLECTUAL HOME LIFE i] It is a common expression among school teachers that they can detect in school children the intellectual life of the home. Some children come to school with a rich world of information from which they can draw in their study of the problems of' nature, of history and science. These children also have a keen interest in the study of the many problems presented in school life. They are the first to lead out in discussion. Other children have no such background and consequently they lag behind in nearly every subject that calls for wide intellectual experience. What is true in the school room is true in every relation of life where our children come in contact with people. The home training always comes forth for good or for ill. OPEN-MINDEDNESS MUST BE TAUGHT IN THE HOME And lastly, the attitude of the home towards a free and open discussion of all vital questions is sure to give the child a tremendous advantage in his later investigations of scientific, political, economic, and religious truths. One of our greatest leaders of thought, in modern times, John Stewart Mill, attributes his attainments to the training he received from his father in intellectual honesty. He was always taught to let the facts and principles revealed in his study govern his conclusions. In short, he was taught to be open-minded. This is the true spirit of the gospel. We are always open to truth. We adhere to the commandment: "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning even by study and also by faith." 176 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE QUESTIONS 1, What scriptural evidence have we to show that to seek intelligence is a divine law given to man? 2. Does the commandment to seek "knowledge and truth" extend beyond that of seeking religious bl Do we have scriptural evidence of this? 3. What is the meaning of the expression: "The bondage of ignorance?" 4. What facilities does the home afford for intellectual training? 5. Is intellectual home leadership necessarily confined to father and mother? 6. Do you think that it weakens the influence of father or mother if a high school son or daughter should assume intellectual leadership in the home along certain lines of science? { 7. State the advantages that come to children reared in intellectual homes. 8. Place the following in the order of their importance from the standpoint of the welfare of the child: Healthy homes. Moral homes. Homes with spiritual atmosphere. Wealthy homes. Intellectual homes. 9. What is the meaning of open-mindedness? How strongly do you think this principle should be advocated in the home? References: Doctrine and Covenants, 88:77-80; 117:122; 93:24-48; = 7; 130:18-19. Deuteronomy 11:19. The following two books contain good supplementary material for the lessons on the home: Cope: Religious Education in the Family, published by the University of Chicago Press, Chicago, Ill. Mosiah Hall: A Practical Sociology, published by Charles Scribner's Sons, Chicago, Ill. To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that more than one-half of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the confer- | ence. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00. Sincerely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. To the Relief Society Magazine SUBSCRIBERS Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appear on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for Your Expiration! A Wonderful Washer Made Better. Come in and see the NEW, IMPROVED AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC WASHER Special Terms for March Only $1 Down and $5 a Month Utah Power & Light Company "Efficient Public Service" Mention Relief Society Magazine A Page for Every Woman Containing latest patterns?fascinating health and beauty suggestions?receipes for cooking special dishes?and numerous articles that have special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness?wholesomeness and dependability characterizes Che Deseret News Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper Mention Relief Society Magazine Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market WILL LAST A LIFE TIME?36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY = N RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERE Made especially for L. D. S, Churches, and Inter-mountain region,: and Pacific Islands. Silver. NCES FURNISHED and successfully used in Utah also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "T am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses, "Everything arrived in good condition. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness," Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City Mention Relief Society Magazine Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M_I. Boys' School SHOES Mention Relief Society Magazine cc: We are very pleased with it. A PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language?a language understood by everybody. Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"?the kind they make at Phone Was. 2861 6 Main St., Salt Lake Lumiere Studio Mention Relief Society Magazine The Utah State National Bank The officers ure always glad to meet customers and discusa business plans with therm. Officers Heser J. Grant, President. Cuartes W. Nisrey, Vice-President. Cas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. Mc)iwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Atvin C. Strona, Assistant Cashier. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. Mention Relief Society Magazine An Appropriate gift A Bound Volume of the Relief Society Magazine Following are the ones we have on hand: 12 Vols. Of 1915, Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1318, Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols of 1919, Cloth Bound 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919, Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920, Cloth Bound 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920, Leather B'd 3.00 15e Extra for Postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, 22, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, City, Utah. Mention Relief Society Magazine oo ad | | le | | | (= Ice Cream-Candy Cake-Luncheons PHONE WAS. 3223 ? P. O. BOX:/7/3 * SALT LAKE CITY Mention Relief Society Magazine All: - JIdWil S "SCTE TEL | 'ae 40 _? Invivatto 'cA Spirit of Friendly Sympathy Marks Every Feature of Our Service was successors to Joseph E. Taylor Funeral Directors to the People of Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860. PHONE WASATCH 912. An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service. S, M. TAYLOR & COMPANY | Was. 912 251-257 East First South Street. Was. 912 Mention Relief Society Magazine Was. 912 S. M. TAYLOR, President Was. 91. A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas. LINE 