Vol. IX AUGUST, 1922 No. 8 The Resignation of the Magazine Editor The Golden Wedding of Mr. And Mrs. McCune Notes on Bible Poetry The Ungrateful Indian Z. C. M. I. Industrial Conditions for Girls Susa YOUNG GATES Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS The Sign of Comfort If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request. Style Price 1 Special Summer weight..........$.95 24 Unbranded special, light wt. 1.25 15 Bleached spring needle gauze 1.50 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached...... 2.00 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached 2.00 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached 2.50 Style Price 100 Cotton, heavy wt., bleached.... 2.95 50 Lisle, gauze wt., bleached...... 2.65 107 Merino wool, medium wt...... 3.75 109 Merino wool, heavy weight.... 4.25 65 Mercerized, lt. wt., bleached 3.75 305 Australian wool, lt. wt.............. 6.00 1922 Pure Glove Silk...................... 1.75 The only approved Garments made with wide flaps at back, bowen hole for better fastening down front, and set-in shoulder pieces to prevent sleeves stretching. Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 Main St. Salt Lake City Mention Relief Society Magazine BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices Call at our Burial Clothes Department 23 Bishop's Building Prompt attention given all out of town orders TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 Mention Relief Society Magazine Music Magnetizes the Home The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop. $100.00 For this Beauty Take 15 Months to Pay Daynes-Beebe Music Co. SALT LAKE CITY CAPITAL: $100,000.00 THE STATE OF UTAH Mention Relief Society Magazine HOUSEHOLD TREASURERS In this day of household economics the lady of the home has, to a great extent, become the house treasurer and financier—it is she who carries the pocketbook, in other words, it is she who should supervise the bank account. To these good ladies we suggest the use of the check book. It is the modern, economic and convenient way to handle money. The bank check is a good receipt for money paid out on household accounts— it is a bookkeeper. TRY THE BANK PLAN. National Bank of Commerce OGDEN, UTAH When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine Latter-Day Saints Garments APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT No. No. (Bleached.........................$1.40 150 Extra white Mercerized........ 111 Light weight, cotton.............. 120 Light weight, bleached........... 160 Medium weight, cotton........... 1.75 126 Heavy wool, mixed............... 122 Medium weight, bleached........ 2.00 117 Snow White Silkatine........... 190 Heavy weight, cotton.............. 2.25 118 All Merino Wool................... MODEL KNITTING WORKS No. 657 Iverson St. "Reliable Agents Wanted" Salt Lake City, Utah 110 Medium wool, mixed W. M. McCONAHAY The Reliable Jeweler McConahay, the jeweler carries the latest styles in engagement and wedding rings. Consult him at 64 So. Main Street before going elsewhere. Phone Was. 1828 Salt Lake City, Utah When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine The Summer Menu The menu for hot days should be specially thought out and prepared— zest of appetite and good health demand it. A modern, scientific Cook Book, therefore, is indispensable to every housewife. We can supply you with any good cook book now in publication. On your request we will forward you a list. You can order by mail. Deseret Book Company 44 E. So. Temple Salt Lake City The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

CONTENTS AUGUST, 1922 

Page

A Tribute to Sister Susa Y. Gates Ruth May Fox 399
Our Retiring Editor 401
Golden Wedding of Mr. And Mrs. A. W. McCune 404
Girls in Our Own Zion's Cooperative Mercantile Institution 406
My Baby's Prayer Mrs. L. E. Russon 411
Notes on Bible Poetry L. Lulu Greene Richards 412
The Ungrateful Indian Nina B. McKean 417
The Relief Society Magazine Mrs. Christine Stacey 419
Summer Menus Jeanette A. Hyde 420
Recreative Grace Ingles Frost 425
Hotel Utah Food Combinations Louis J. Theu 426
Northern Mexico Recipes Gladys Sanders 428
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 431
Nature's Perfect Food A. A. Hinckley 437
Your Services to God and Man Sarah Deady Tomsik 439
EDITORIAL: Resignation of Mrs. Susa Young Gates 440
Guide Lessons for October 442
God Bless My Stupid Soul Mary Foster Gibbs 451

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY
Patronize those who patronize us.

BUREAU OF INFORMATION, Temple Block, Salt Lake City, Utah
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
DESERET BOOK CO., 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
THE DESERET NEWS, Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
FLOWER SHOP, Eccles Bldg., Ogden, Utah
KEELEY'S, Salt Lake City, Utah
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City, Utah
MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
McCONAHAY, Jeweler, 64 So. Main St., Phone W. 1821
NATIONAL BANK OF COMMERCE, Ogden, Utah
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT, Bishop's Building Salt Lake City
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City
SERVICE PRESS PRINTERS, 228 W. Broadway, Salt Lake City
S. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY, 251-57 East 1st South
UTAH CANNING COMPANY, Ogden, Utah
UTAH GAS CO.
UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City, Utah
Z. C. M. I., Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah

A Tribute to Sister Susa Y. Gates

Ruth May Fox

Thou gifted daughter of a mighty seer,
All hail! Thy fellow workers waft good cheer,
Our blessing, praise, and honor give to thee,
We thank the Father for thy ministry.
Each passing year hath added to thy crown,
Gems unsurpassed, until thy fair renown
Hath spread abroad, scaled mountains, crossed the sea,
Thy sex in many lands rejoice in thee.
And yet we know thou lovest best of all
The women who responded to the call
Of God's own Church; who threw aside their pride,
To walk in ways the haughty oft deride.
And we love thee, dear sister, well we know
The wondrous faith thy zealous labors show;
Thy leadership; thy staunch integrity;
Thy reverence for God's authority.
From early youth thy pen so free and bold
Hath fed the hearts of numbers manifold;
Thy voice inspired hath fall'n on grateful ears.
Thy benedictions in high heaven appears.
Thy ministrations, by our Father's grace,
Dispensing blessings in his holy place,
Shall bind the hearts of those beyond the veil
So close to thine, their love can never fail.
Could'st ask for more? And still the shining way
Throws wide its gates and bids thee, day by day,
Continue on toward ambition's goal,
Until his just reward shall satisfy thy soul.

SUSA YOUNG GATES

THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. IX AUGUST 1922, No. 8

Our Retiring Editor

To suppress, rather than to express, is often the business of an editor. Fame, if it ever comes, will perhaps arise as much from the power of an editor to exercise the first, as from the second. Susa Young Gates can both suppress and express, but excels in the latter. Her fort is in creating, not in polishing thoughts and sentences; in originating, not in smoothing ideas and expressions. As far as the limited number of members of the intermountain community can accord a person literary fame, she has had it smile on her. It has come rather from her ability to do things vigorously than from a more quiet and toilsome work of editing other peoples' efforts in literature. A nature like hers chafes under restraint and longs for original expression. Whether owing to this fact, or that she has in contemplation important original literary ventures, we regret that she has seen fit to resign as editor of the Relief Society Magazine, which she has so ably edited since its beginning in 1914-15. Her resignation was accepted June 29, by President Clarissa S. Williams and the General Board of the Relief Society. She was appointed to this editorial position by the late President Joseph F. Smith. She has filled the mission with honor, and made The Magazine a popular publication among the members of the thriving great and growing organization which it represents. Eight years of earnest toil and planning, selecting, directing, proof reading, added to her charming personality expressed editorially, have endeared The Magazine to the many thousands of its readers, who, with us, will regret the parting that has now taken place. The policy she pursued in the choice of matter was always favorable to womankind. The contents of The Magazine was very properly, mostly for, and by women. Women writers were justly given first place in its pages, and topics of pressing interest to women were given prominent priority. In all her writings, the Church, and the glorious principles and marvelous mission it teaches and stands for, were exalted; and the representatives of the 402 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE divine Priesthood were ever respected and upheld. She gave fair encouragement to new and inexperienced contributors, and many were thus emboldened to express their thoughts in writing. Mrs. Susa Young Gates' literary activities have not been confined to the Relief Society Magazine. They have covered a period of many years, her literary work having begun when Dr. John R. Park appointed her associate editor of the first western college paper, The College Lantern. Since then she has written essays, stories, plays, and poetry for the Church magazines, and for the paper which she has edited, for more than fifty years. She founded the Young Woman's Journal in 1889, under the direction of the Y. L. M. I. A., and for eight years was its editor. Many of her early writings were printed in the Deseret News, Juvenile Instructor, and the Woman's Exponent, as well as in the Young Woman's Journal, and appear under the nom de plume, "Homespun." She is the author of a number of books, the three principal ones being, Lydia Knight's History, John Stevens' Courtship, perhaps her finest piece of fiction, and The History of the Y. L. M. I. A., a book of about 500 pages. She is also the author of An Elementary Treatise in Genealogy, and A Surname Book, and other works. Her Journal editorials cover a period of eleven years, and in many respects are among her ablest writings. John Stevens' Courtship was adopted in the M. I. A. Reading course, and is a pioneer story embracing the exacting episodes and love affairs of a Church leader during the Johnston Army period. For many years, in the early days, she was practically the only fiction writer in the Church, and while those early writings may have lacked the finish that it is now her power to give, and that is desirable in present day stories, the thoughts and incidents are vigorous, showing sympathetic insight into human nature, with a keen perception of human needs. They are instructive and entertaining, and many of the preachments made have lingered fresh to this day in the minds of the youthful readers of years ago. The influence of her writings is always for good, encouragement, and helpfulness, and leave a wholesome feeling in the minds of the readers. Among the semi-literary activities of Mrs. Gates may be mentioned that she served for five years as chairman of the Press Committee of the National Woman's Council; and traveled in the interest of suffrage into many foreign lands—London, Copenhagen, Rome—and attended many gatherings in America. She received her early education in the private school of her father, Brigham Young, and this was continued in the Deseret University, now the University of Utah, of which she is an alumnus. She studied also in Brigham Young University and took summer work at Harvard. Besides being the head of the editorial staff of the OUR RETIRING EDITOR 403 College Lantern, she was the official reporter for the Retrenchment Society and for the dedication services of the St. George temple. She is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Brigham Young University, in which capacity she has served for more than thirty years; and in 1906, was appointed a director of the Agricultural College of Utah, which position she occupied for seven years. At present, she is engaged in important genealogical research in which she has always taken active interest. She became a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, May 8, 1911, and prior to that time had acted as a member of the General Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. Since 1889. In 1914 she became editor of the Relief Society Bulletin, and later editor of Relief Society Magazine, which was first issued, January, 1915. Besides her literary activities, she has devoted herself to her family, and is a firm believer in the statement that her father once made to her that, "If a woman were to become famous throughout the world, and still fail as a wife and mother, she would wake up on the morning of the resurrection and find that she had failed in everything." Sister Gates, therefore, notwithstanding her initiative in literary work and in organization, considers that her devotion as wife and mother is her first religious duty. Her experience, splendid organizing powers, and initiative in literature, have been freely given to the organizations of the women of the Church and nation, many of whom will regret her immediate retirement from the editorial field and will gladly welcome any new literary venture that she may originate, now that she is free to lead out in original fields of endeavor. We are sure all our readers will join us in wishing her the blessings of the Lord, happiness and success, in any venture or activity she may undertake.

Modern sanitation and community health programs have, in many instances, converted the flyless home ideal into an accomplished fact. In some districts and communities, however, judging from the numbers of these swarming germ carriers, the message of disease control and warning of the menace and danger of the fly to the public health, has not penetrated the domestic and civic consciousness. Until every community is freed from the danger of the spread of disease by the uncontrolled fly, it is not trite to revive "swat-the-fly" campaigns and to urge housewives to screen their homes.

Golden Wedding of Mr. And Mrs. A. W. McCune

The golden wedding anniversary of Alfred W. And Elizabeth C. McCune was celebrated July 1, 1922, in the McCune mansion, now the School of Music for the L. D. S. Church. President Grant, and a committee of women whom he had selected to assist him, bade three hundred guests to the reception. Invitations were sent to the various cities and town, in Utah MR. AND MRS. A. W. MCCUNE where Mr. And Mrs. McCune had previously lived and made many warm personal and business friends. President Grant acted as host in receiving, and made everyone feel welcome and at home. An informal program of music was given in which President Grant, Elder Melvin J. Ballard, Professor Peterson, J. J. McClellan and Willard Weihe participated. GOLDEN WEDDING 405 Mrs. McCune was modestly gowned in a white Japanese silk dress trimmed with lace. It was one of those beautiful, quiet home affairs, carrying out the wishes of both President Grant and Mr. And Mrs. McCune. For ten years Sister McCune was identified with the Relief Society General Board, having been called to this position April, 1911. During these years she gave her time and strength unselfishly, visiting practically every stake, counseling and advising the mothers and daughters of Zion. No matter how long and hard the journey, Sister McCune was always willing to accept the appointment. Sister McCune was always welcomed a return visitor to any stake she previously visited. She not only visited the Relief Societies at home, but she traveled extensively in foreign lands, and was entertained by some of the great men and women of the world. It is said of her that during one of her visits in London, she assisted our missionary boys in tracting from house to house. Her testimony has been heard by thousands of people. Sister McCune has always maintained a humble spirit. Her faith. Has been unwavering, and her interest in the Church and her people has never faltered. Her right hand was always extended to those who needed help. Her interests centered around the unfortunate. She blessed the sick and looked after the genealogical release of the dead who are dependent upon their living friends and relatives for assistance. She was the chairman of the genealogical committee of the General Board and was the means of inspiring many of the sisters as well as the brethren to good work in genealogical study and research. Sister McCune gave much of her time in personal supervision in the opening and furnishing of the Relief Society home. Its walls were adorned with some of her beautiful pictures, as gifts to the home. She harbors an intense interest for the women of the Church which has been often beautifully expressed in her gifts and acts of love. Sister McCune's love and interest in the Relief Society work made her one of the most valuable members of the General Board. To know her is to love and respect her, and the Presidency of the Relief Society as well as the General Board join with President Grant and friends in wishing Mr. And Mrs. McCune, health, happiness and long life. —L. Y. R.

THE POWER OF TRUTH

"Truth is the rock foundation of every great character. It is loyalty to the right as we see it; it is courageous living of our lives in harmony with our ideals; it is always—power."

Girls in Our Own Zion's Co-operative Mercantile Institution

The opening of a cafeteria on the fourth floor of Zion's Cooperative Mercantile Institution, for the employees of that popular establishment led to an investigation and inquiry concerning the status of our girls who labor there so faithfully and so well. The writer is unacquainted with the conditions of girl employees in similar institutions in the world; yet knows something concerning the opportunities provided in this city in like cases. It may be that large institutions in the world provide as luxuriant quarters, as fine insurance facilities, and as excellent food at minimum prices as is offered to the girl employees of this home institution; if that should be true, the marvel is that more of our restless wage-earning girls do not crowd such institutions, for the advantages and comforts there offered. The cafeteria, just opened for the use of the girls, has a large, elegantly furnished rest room attached with leather cushioned rockers, couches, velvet rugs, and writing tables so that the period of the noon hour offers relaxation physically and mentally to the tired girl employee. There is an excellent phonograph filled with up-to-date records; beside it stands a piano and pianola; near there is a library of standard novels, books of travel, all the Church works, and the Church auxiliary magazines with the daily papers; not only this, but a large table contains copies of the higher class Eastern magazines and periodicals, especially the women's magazines, The food served in the cafeteria is cooked by a trained chef who has been in service at a local cafeteria for a number of years. The modern kitchen is fitted with every appliance that science can devise, is compact and exceedingly white and clean. The food is served in cafeteria style; the girls pass along filling their trays as taste or fancy may dictate. Indeed, they are at liberty to bring food, in part or wholly so, if they choose, of their own providing. The usual choice of meats, soups and stews is supplemented by vegetables, gravies, sauces, salads, pickles, and desserts of the most tempting variety and kind. The prices are almost unbelievably cheap; a plate with a most generous slice of roast beef flanked by mashed potatoes and gravy is 15c, vegetables are 5c a dish, salads and pickles likewise; great pieces of pie and cake, fruit GIRLS IN OUR Z. C. M. I. 407 and lemon and custard pie, chocolate, nut and banana cake and of most generous proportions are likewise 5c a helping. The cooking and serving is as excellent as any in the city. From two hundred to three hundred people are served here through two hours of service. Provisions are made where any who are not well can rest or receive the kindly ministrations of associates or the matron during the friendly noon hour, and a whole hour time at noon is allowed to each employee. There are two hundred girls in the institution, that is, clerks only. The average clerk's wage is $15 a week. Comparison of wages with other stores in this city proves that this institution has never paid as low prices as the other stores; if anything, their GIRL EMPLOYEES' REST ROOM rate is a little higher. This estimate, of course, does not include the heads of the department, nor the girls who get much higher salaries working in the office. The girls labor from seven and one-half hours to eight hours a day and are never required to work overtime. Stools are provided where they are at liberty to rest whenever they wish, as long as they are not busy. If the girls are absent for a week because of sickness, their pay goes right on for 408 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that length of time, and they are always allowed one day off each month. Then there is the Insurance Fund which was created two years ago. The following items indicate the liberality of this movement: The usual rules of insurance are followed in the Pension and Benefit proposition. Those who have been one year in the institution and are under 18 years of age, in case of death, their beneficiaries shall receive $500; those who have been in the employ of the institution one year, and less than 15 years, and are over 18 years of age, their beneficiaries receive $1000; over fifteen years, $1,500; for department managers and those who hold equally responsible positions, their beneficiaries receive $2,500. This insurance goes only to those employees' beneficiaries where the employees are regularly employed at the time of their last illness and who are not already receiving pensions. In the pension system all officers and employees who have attained the age of 65 years, and who have served the institution honorably for twenty years, receive a pension at their retirement. The acceptance of the pension does not debar the employee from engaging in any other business. They receive a monthly pension of one per cent of the average monthly salary, as shown by the pay-roll, for the past ten years, multiplied by years of service. For example: the average salary of an employee for the past 10 years may be $80 per month, his length of service 25 years, 8x25—$20 per month. Naturally there is discretion left with the pension board concerning the associate rights of the Institution and employee: the Institution reserving the privilege to discharge any employee or officer when the interest of the institution requires such action. All of the employees have discounts in the purchase of goods. One excellent note of instruction contains the following points: "Misrepresentation— You must never misrepresent goods; you can sell more without. A satisfied customer will always return. Make no promises you are not sure can be fulfilled. Post yourself fully on delivery schedule. "If you have not exactly what a customer asks for, show something else that may answer. "General Conduct.—Don't read newspapers or talk loud. Don't entertain your friends. Keep your stock clean. Keep yourself clean and neatly dressed. Don't discuss politics or other matters foreign to business. Smoking on the premises is positively prohibited, and chewing gum in business hours not allowed. "You must not gather in groups, nor leave your department without permission. Do not attend to your private affairs during business hours. Have your mail directed home. Do not use company stationery for your own private correspondence. "Be loyal to the Institution; work for its interest as you would for yourself, and don't criticize. If you have any suggestions drop them in the Suggestion Box in the General Office. "While volume of sales are an important factor in business, polite attention, interest in your duties, and care in waiting on EMPLOYEES' CAFETERIA customers are equally important, and are in themselves productive of increased business. "You are working for an Institution which stands for the highest ideals, and you are expected to maintain this standard in your personal lives. Otherwise, you will not advance with the organization. "It is the purpose and policy of the Institution to offer encouragement and scope for ambition and honest labor, but it is not intended to put a premium upon indolence or incapacity, or to stimulate the agitator. The employee who habitually criticizes the policy of those in charge, or complains of their inability to 410 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE perceive his superior qualifications, is very apt to defeat his own purpose. "As a final word we wish it understood that every employee of Z. C. M. I. Who faithfully attends to his business, who is steady in his habits, punctual, reliable, and competent in the performance of his special duty, may feel sure that patience and loyalty will ultimately bring their reward." The other rules and instructions issued to the employees are illuminating, and indicates the friendliness of our parent Institution to their associate workers. There is a Mutual Aid Society also associated with the Z. C. M. I. Which is an employees' direct affair. Usually officers and committees head the Society. The following items indicate its scope: The membership dues shall be as follows: Class I (Members receiving less than $50 per month) 25 cents per month. Class II (Members receiving $50, but less than $75) 50 cents per month. Class III (Members receiving $75, but less than $100) 75 cents per month. Class IV (Members receiving $100 and over per month) $1 per month. These dues are to be deducted from the salary. The benefits to which a member is entitled are as follows: In case of sickness an allowance of $1.75 per day for not exceeding 10 weeks, and 75 cents per day for not exceeding 10 weeks thereafter. Provided, that such allowance shall not exceed his or her salary. This allowance to commence two days after the member's regular pay has been stopped. In case the sickness is of longer duration than two days the member will receive the allowance above. In every case Sunday will be excluded. No assistance shall be rendered a member until he has been a member for one month. Upon the death of a member, leaving a dependent wife, husband or child, $250. All other members $100. Upon the death of a member's wife or husband, or adult member, $100; a minor dependent child over 12 years of age, $75; under 12 years, $50. Any female member who has been a member for one year, who leaves the Institution to get married, $25. GIRLS IN OUR Z. C. M. I. 411 Another item provides that $25 be paid to members of the society upon the birth of a child. In case of a missionary call, a sum equal to his fare to his field of labor shall be presented, plus $25, provided, however, that such fare shall not exceed $100. Provided further, that such member shall have been a member six months previous to the date of his call. A member who becomes a pensioner may remain a member by continuing to pay his due, and shall be entitled to death benefit but not to sick benefit. These instructions may be studied with profit by any girl or woman who engages help from other people and who desires to get help, financial or otherwise, from friends or associates. We commend most heartily all of the items herein mentioned and we are exceedingly proud of the attitude of this greatest, most righteously successful Institution with which we are acquainted. The officers are: President, Heber J. Grant; Anthony W. Ivins, vice president; Manager, John F. Bennett, Assistant Manager, Franklin S. Tingey; secretary, C. A. F. Orlob; Treasurer, W. S. Romney; and John H. Burrows, Assistant Treasurer. All of these are tireless in their efforts to promote the welfare of the Institution itself and those associated with it.

MY BABY'S PRAYER

Mrs. L. E. Russon

O little lips, how dear, how dear!
How comforting to mother's ear,
When from the childish heart they bear
My baby's prayer.
"Bless Daddy, please, and make him well,
And, Buddy hurt him when he fell."
What joy when breathes upon the air
My baby's prayer.
"And bless my mama, too, tonight,
May she be strong, and teach us right—"
O baby faith, sublime and fair,
O baby prayer.
"Bless poor old Grandma's eyes to see;
May I a little lady be—"
It seems to banish grief and care,
My baby's prayer.

Notes on Bible Poetry

FROM AN OLD NOTE BOOK.

L. Lula Greene Richards

Over one hundred year ago, there died at Calcutta, in India, one of the foremost literary men of the last century. This man was Sir William Jones, one of the English Judges. In the Supreme Court of Judicature at Calcutta. He was exceedingly progressive in science generally, but in Oriental letters, he is said to have been the finest student of any time. He was not only a brilliant scholar, but a sincere Christian, an ardent supporter of the scriptures, and at his death these words were found on the last leaf of his Bible: "I have regularly and attentively read these Holy Scriptures; and am of opinion that this volume, independently of its divine origin, contains more sublimity and beauty, more pure morality, more important history, and finer strains of poetry and eloquence, than can be collected from all other books in whatever age or language they may have been composed." So it should be with us. We should place the scriptures, ancient and modern, among our literary treasures, not only because we prize them on account of the inspiration and divine promptings which have guided their writers, but also because we have made ourselves familiar with their value as books. Our Bible ought to be far more than a mere book of reference to which we turn only when we wish to justify or defend some portion of our faith; and more than a source of interesting controversy between ourselves and our associates and debate as to what this or that passage means. It ought to be a book which we find interesting and take pleasure in reading because of the unbiased simplicity of its historical narratives, and the sweetness and fervor of its poetry. As with everything else, to fully appreciate Hebrew poetry, we must study and understand it. In doing this we will find some marked differences between it and the poetry of today. The principal characteristics which distinguish our modern prose writings from our poetry are the elements of rhyme and meter belonging to poetry and lacking in prose. Still some of our best poetry is written without rhyme, in blank verse, we call it. During the 16th and 17th centuries, this was a very popular style. Milton wrote his "Paradise Lost" in that form. So, despite the delightful grace which rhyme lends to poetry, we have to conclude that it is not an indispensable feature. Even without its use, NOTES ON BIBLE POETRY 413 modern poetry still has that musical harmony produced from the use of rhythm and regularity of structure. Rhythm is the result of accenting the syllables of a poem at certain regular intervals; thus, in some poetry as in Gray's "Elegy" every second syllable is accented, and in some other poetry, every third syllable, other styles have the first of every two syllables accented, and so on. As the measured steps of a file of well trained soldiers with its "Left, left, left," is to the eyes, so the harmonious beat of this accent of syllable is to the ear, causing the words even apart from the beauty of their meaning to soothe, restrain or stimulate the emotions unconsciously, as with a sense of music. The placing of these rhythmic periods into different regular forms gives us meter. These two elements, rhyme and meter, two of the essentials of modern poetry, are lacking in the poetry of the Bible, although meter is often closely approached. The old Hebrew poets neither relied on similarity of sound nor regular measure of syllable to give their words poetic worth. How then, without these characteristics by which we distinguish modern poetry from prose to guide us, are we to discern when reading the Scriptures the poetical from the prosaic? For though we say that poetry is beautiful sentiment, fittingly expressed, this is giving it the broadest meaning, strictly speaking, we must admit that poetical prose is one thing and poetry another. Poetry must have some feature of regularity of form or structure to distinguish it. What is this feature in the writings of the Bible? How are we to know when we are reading Hebrew poetry and when Hebrew prose? As I have said, meter is so often closely approached that we might even use it as a secondary test; but the most prominent characteristic in Hebrew poetry is parallelism. This is not a measure of syllable, but a measure of thought. One writer has called it thought rhythm. The common definition of parallelism is resemblance. It comes from a Greek word meaning to place side by side, and with reference to Hebrew poetry consists in the expression in two poetic lines of the same sentiment with slight modification. To illustrate I will read two passages from Isaiah: "The vile person shall no more be called liberal; Nor the churl said to be bountiful." "At the noise of the tumult the people fled. At the lifting up of thyself, the nations were scattered." Here is an example from Psalms: 414 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "The king shall joy in thy strength, O Lord. And in thy salvation how greatly shall he rejoice. Thou hast given him his heart's desire; And hast not withholden the request of his lips." The fourth chapter of Genesis, in the midst of a prose narrative, Lamech, in telling his two wives that he has killed a man, affords an excellent example: "And Lamech said unto his wives:— "Adah and Zillah, hear my voice; Ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech: For I have slain a man to my wounding, And a young man to my hurt." Again referring to Isaiah, we find an instance of parallelism consisting of three lines having practically the same meaning, thus:— "Now will I rise, saith the Lord, Now will I be exalted. Now will I lift up myself." However, these examples illustrate only one class of parallelism, and it is divided into three general classes. The class just referred to is synonymous parallelism, so called because the different lines express practically the same ideas. The second class is known as antithetic (antithetic means placed in contrast), and this class is given this name because to make the sentiment of the first line clear and forcible the poet places one quite opposed to it in meaning in the second. Many examples of this class are contained in Proverbs and Psalms: "When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice; But when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn." "The wicked flee when no man pursueth; But the righteous are as bold as a lion." "He that tilleth his soil shall have plenty of bread; But he that followeth after vain persons shall have poverty enough." The third class is called synthetic parallelism, but we cannot truly call this parallelism of thought, for instead of the ideas being similar as in synonymous parallelism, or exactly opposite in meaning as in antithetic parallelism, the second or following NOTES ON BIBLE POETRY 415 lines introduce an entirely new thought suggested by the first or fundamental idea: "What man is he that feareth the Lord? Him shall he instruct in the way that he shall choose." "Train up a child in the way he should go, And when he is old, he will not depart from it." We say the Bible contains three poetical books, but more than three merit the title. Psalms is classed as lyrical poetry because the different psalms are evidently poems intended to be sung to the music of the lyre or some other instrument. Proverbs we call didactic, as it is of reflective character. And the Book of Job, dramatic because it partakes of the nature of the drama. Much as the material form of their poetry may differ, the modern poet and the poet of scripture have one thing in common: an intense love of nature. No matter how deep or sublime his subject, the Hebrew poet always tries to make it clear by comparing it with some simple feature of the homely, every-day life of his people. David, speaking of the perfection of the ways of the Lord, says: "More to be desired are they than gold, yea than much fine gold; Sweeter also than honey and the honey-comb." And in another psalm, speaking of the enemies of Zion: "Let them be as the grass upon the housetops, which withereth afore it groweth up." That was in a country where most of the houses had flat roofs made from earth with grass growing on them. Probably all will recognize these lines: "The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: He leadeth me beside the still waters." And in the New Testament the words of Christ partake of this characteristic: "The foxes have holes, And the birds of the air have nests; But the son of man hath not where to lay his head." Constant allusions of this nature stamp on Bible poetry the love of the Hebrew poet for his country. He was Hebrew through and through. To him there were no forests like those on the hillsides of Lebanon; Jordan was the river of rivers, and Jerusalem the city of cities. Even when taken captive to the far 416 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE richest cities of the East, his heart still remained true to this ideal. He mourned for her desolation, and rejoiced in the hope of her future. "By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down, Yea, we wept, when we remembered Zion. We hanged our harps upon the willows in the midst thereof. For there they that carried us away captive required of us a song: And they that wasted us required of us mirth, saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land? If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her cunning! If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth, If I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy." Solomon says there is a time for all things. So, it would seem there is a time peculiarly adapted for the reading of Bible verses. If the rush of up-to-date life would allow, us to follow the custom of many of our devout grandfathers and grandmothers of reading a few words from the Bible at prayer time, even if only once a week, this would lead to an acquaintance with the beauty of the Scriptures; and might it not cultivate in our young people a love for reading that has a worth beyond giving mere pleasure for the moment?

A change in the citizenship status of women, has been proposed, and has been endorsed by several women's organizations. The present law gives a married woman the same citizenship status as that of her husband. The proposed amendment provides that an American woman, marrying a foreigner, should be allowed to retain her rights as an American citizen, and it also provides that the foreign woman should be subject to the same naturalization provisions as the foreign man and should not be permitted to obtain her citizenship rights by virtue of her husband's naturalization.

The Ungrateful Indian

By Nina B. McKean.

There were five of us. Jean, the girl from the East, with her fine manners and sweet voice; Mary, jolly and sociable, from sunny California; Lois, on a vacation from teaching school and making a visit to the Cliff dwellings to learn more about the "wild and woolly Indians," the nurse from the government hospital of the Agency, resting after a long confinement with smallpox cases in the school, and myself. There is nothing to tell of myself except that I had been reared in the midst of the Indians; with a father who preached the gospel to them, and that I had a feeling of kinship with the red man which raised a hot resentment in my heart at the least disparaging remark about "my people." "An Indian is an Indian," remarked Jean, "and why fuss. About them? Just give them a little room in the woods, and leave them alone? I wouldn't touch one for anything: and she brushed an imaginary contamination from her hands. I felt my anger growing, but remembered I was acting as hostess and did not reply. "Oh, you should see our Indians in California, they are just too picturesque for anything!" said Mary. Of course, all Californians boost everything in their native state, even their Indians. I believe the only thing they don't brag on is the Chinese population. "The thing I have against the Indians is their ingratitude." exclaimed the school teacher. "Why, just think of the money the government spends every year on the unappreciative heathens, that we could use to such good advantage in our white schools, and what thanks do we get for it? Don't you get sick of it?" she finished, turning to the government nurse for support of her contention. But the nurse was looking out of the window, and a suspicious moisture in her soft brown eyes made us all cast furtive glances at one another. When she turned and looked up at us, I fancied I saw in her eyes a feeling of pity for the ignorance around her. She said gently, "Shall I tell you a story?" "By all means, yes," we all exclaimed; she began: "I am not going to tell you how long ago this was, but it is true, and it was when I was much younger than I am now. I had just finished my hospital work and passed the civil service examination and came out west to work for the poor Indians, not because I could make more money, but for real love of humanity. 418 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I have seen the natives on the war path when soldiers were sent to subdue them, but I am getting away from my story. "One day to our school came a pretty little girl with a very unspellable name; but that made no difference, as she was registered under the name of Minnie Brown, and as such we knew her. Her father stood in the background looking with great hauteur upon the proceedings. Her mother was dead, I learned, and that drew me to her. I often invited her to my room in those first lonely months, and then she came of her own choice. She grew into a beautiful woman and was wonderfully bright and original in her ideas. When the tall, good-looking Indian boy, whom we called Jim, began smiling at my Minnie, I found myself making a match in spite of myself; and I pictured a family of brown babies of which I should be a godmother. "About this time, I was talking one night to the secretary about our head doctor; and I noticed his eyes shone with a look I didn't like when he looked across the grounds to where Minnie was leading a crowd of little tots in a dance." "She's a pretty thing. Too bad she is only a squaw." "I started this story with the sole idea of telling the truth. The secretary's voice and eyes gave me a chilled feeling of dread. I never once had thought of our gentle, refined Minnie as a squaw. I vowed to watch more carefully for my girl in the future. Why, oh, why, do we have premonitions that still avail us nothing!, "The next day I was called to the bedside of a seriously sick sister, and two months elapsed before I returned to the agency. Meeting old friends and relatives had kept my mind away from my work, so I was entirely unprepared for the events that had occurred. The secretary had been dismissed from the service, I found, and Minnie, afraid and ashamed, had fled home to her. People. "Jim was accused of the deed and was sent to find and marry Minnie to cover up a white man's sin. Indians do not talk much, and Jim really loved her, so he was willing to take the blame in order to protect her, but in his eyes was a flaming rebellion over the unjust advantage a white man had taken. "Alas, he could not find Minnie, and I was frantic for fear she had added self-destruction to her other sin, when one night in the midst of a raging blizzard she stumbled into my room, eyes blazing with fever, and feet stiff and frozen. She fell prostrate as I opened the door. With the help of the doctor we worked all night and by morning she lost her wild look and reached for my hand. ' "'My father cursed me and drove me from his door,' she said pitifully, I have disgraced a line of noble chiefs, but I have THE UNGRATEFUL INDIAN 419 learned many things from the white man—I learned to sin. But you have taught me that Jesus forgives. Now I will sleep!' and so Minnie fell asleep." After a while Jean asked, in a husky voice, "And what became of the others?" "The secretary married a white girl in the East—but never came west again. I don't think he would want to face Jim." "And Jim?" asked Lois. "Oh! He is the proud and ungrateful guide we had this morning about whom you were expressing regret concerning the money spent on the Indians by our government."

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Mrs. Christine Stacey

I'm going to speak a word or two,
'Though volumes could be told,
About a little magazine
That's worth its weight in gold.
It comes to me and never fails,
Each month I find it here.
A little messenger it is
That brings a world of cheer.
I turn the cover, then, perhaps,
A picture first I see.
And next my eager eyes behold
A gem of poetry.
And stories, too, biographies
Of sisters who have gone;
And sisters who are with us still
To help the work along.
And other stories, too, I find,
Of love and joy and pain;
Of happiness that slips away
And then comes back again.
Then lastly come the solemn truths
The words that God hath said.
My eager mind is satisfied;
My hungry soul is fed.
And then I sit and ponder on
The things my eyes have seen.
And thank the Lord that I can read
The R. S. Magazine.

Summer Menus

Jeannette A. Hyde

The most natural thing in work is for us to work along the line of least resistance. We are all hunting for the best thing in the easiest way. As soon as the hot days begin, you hear the housewife ask, "What can we have to eat today?" We all desire something appetizing, something easy to get, something to keep the body cool and something nourishing as well. All wise housewives know that to make sudden changes upsets the digestive organs and creates all kinds of disturbances. So we begin planning our meals with the thought in mind of keeping the family well, giving them cooling things with the least effort and with the least disturbance to the general outline of home work. If we would live simply during the summer months, eliminating rich pastry, such as pie, cake, puddings; eating but little meat and especially fat meats preparing our heavy meal in the morning before the heat of the day, serving only one hot vegetable or beverage at the dinner hour, eliminating stewing and fretting over meals, we would find ourselves much cooler and more comfortable. We must eat plenty of vegetables and fresh fruits, bread and butter, milk, eggs, and cheese, cottage cheese especially. These things are available to most families in city and country. Plenty of greens combined with fruits, vegetables, fish, cottage cheese and other cheese, cold meats, chicken and so forth should be a part of our variety served during the week, but not too great a variety for each meal. Fe will furnish a few suggestive menus for hot days:

Menu No. I

BREAKFAST
Raspberries or currants, strawberries, stewed gooseberries, dewberries, stewed black currants, sliced apricots, sliced peaches, cooked pears or any seasonable fruits.
Cooked cereal with cream.
Toast, French, buttered, or dry.
Postum, hot milk or cocoa.

LUNCHEON
Veal cutlet and brown sauce.
Buttered beets.
Head lettuce with French dressing, mayonnaise or thousand island.
Wafers with cream cheese or cottage-cheese.
Any kind of jelly or jam.

DINNER
Cream macaroni on toast.
Sliced tomatoes and cucumbers.
Onions with vinegar sauce.
Tapioca fruit jelly with cream.
Plain cake.

Menu No. II

BREAKFAST
Fresh fruit.
Plain boiled rice with cream.
Muffins, corn or graham.
Cocoa, hot milk or postum.

LUNCHEON
Stewed chicken.
String beans.
Red cabbage salad.
Bread and butter sandwiches.

DINNER
Scalloped corn.
Baked potatoes.
Stewed carrots or turnips.
Plain ginger bread.

Menu No. III

BREAKFAST
Fresh fruit.
Oatmeal with cream.
Fried finger cakes or toast.
Postum, cocoa, or milk.

LUNCHEON
Potato salad, mayonnaise or French dressing.
Whole wheat or graham sandwiches.
Cup cakes and buttermilk.

DINNER
Tomato or vegetable fruits and crackers.
Cold roast beef.
New potatoes with peas or cream gravy.
Cup custard or tapioca pudding.

Menu No. IV

BREAKFAST
Fresh fruit.
Shredded wheat with cream.
Pop overs or graham muffins.
Postum, milk or cocoa.

LUNCHEON
Minced chicken, ham or dried beef on toast.
Bread and butter.
Any kind of fruit jelly or preserves.
Cocoa or hot milk.

DINNER
Potato made milk soup.
Crackers.
Fish or veal loaf with tomato sauce.
Peas.
Sliced cucumbers.
Plain cake with cream sauce.

Menu No. V

BREAKFAST
Stewed rhubarb.
Corn meal mush and cream.
Whole wheat muffins.
Cocoa, milk or postum.

LUNCHEON
Broiled white fish or thin slice of breakfast bacon on toast.
Vegetable combination salad.
Brown bread and butter.
Fresh fruit.
Cocoa or buttermilk.

DINNER
Cream of lettuce soup.
Cold roast lamb or veal.
Currant jelly on mint sauce.
Baked hominy and cheese.
Brown Betty pudding with jelly sauce.

Menu No. VI

BREAKFAST
Sliced oranges.
Puffed rice and cream.
Frizzled ham and eggs.
Graham toast.
Postum or cocoa.

LUNCHEON
Omelet with asparagus tips or cold peas mushrooms or cheese.
Scalloped potatoes,
Whole or white bread sandwiches.
Tapioca fruit pudding with cream.
Chocolate or buttermilk.

DINNER
Bean soup, and crackers.
Tuna fish loaf or salmon loaf.
Stuffed tomatoes or peppers.
Carmel custard.
Any kind of small cakes.

RECIPES

Menu No. I

FRENCH TOAST
One egg.
One cup sweet milk.
1 tbsp. Flour.
½ tsp. Salt.
Whip into batter. Cut stale bread in slices about ¼ inch thick, dip in batter, fry on both sides in rather hot butter fat until nicely brown. Serve with fresh fruit, jelly or syrup.

VEAL CUTLETS
1 egg.
1 cup milk.
2 tbsp. Flour.
Dash of pepper.
Combine together in batter. Rub cutlets with lemon juice, salt and pepper. Dredge in fine bread on both sides, then in batter, then in bread crumbs. Fry in rather deep hot fat, until thoroughly done. To butter fat left in pan add tbsp. Flour, 1 finely chopped onion. Stir constantly to avoid burning. Add sufficient water to make gravy. Flavor with kitchen bouquet. Serve on slice of toast with cutlets.

Directions for Salad Dressing

Two important things to remember in the making of salad: That vegetables and greens should be thoroughly fresh and crisp and all utensils chilled as well as ingredients entering into the making of the salad.

FRENCH DRESSING
½ tsp. Celery salt.
Tsp. Paprika.
1 tsp. Salt.
6 tbsp. Olive oil.
2 tbsp. Vinegar or lemon juice.
To this may be added a tsp. Of catsup and tabasco sauce. In making French dressing, if the flavor of onion or garlic is liked, cut a slice of either and rub the bowl in which the dressing is to be made.

EGGLESS MAYONNAISE DRESSING
Dressing enough for 4 persons.
6 tbsp. Of condensed milk.
12 tbsp. Olive oil.
1 tsp. Dry mustard.
1 tsp. Sugar.
1½ tsp. Salt.
½ tsp. Paprika.
4 tbsp. Vinegar.
1 tsp. Lemon juice.
Have all ingredients thoroughly chilled before attempting to make this recipe. Carefully whip oil and condensed milk, pour over salt, sugar and paprika, the vinegar and lemon juice. When all is thoroughly dissolved add to the oil and milk. This makes a very fine mayonnaise dressing.

THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING
Take above foundation, add 1 chopped hard boiled egg.
1 tbsp. Chopped green pepper.
1 tbsp. Chopped English chives or onion.
4 tbsp. Catsup.
4 tbsp. Chilly sauce.
½ cup of whipped cream improves flavor.

Menu No. II

MUFFINS
1½ pint flour.
1½ pint either white, or yellow corn meal or graham.
3 tsp. Baking powder.
1½ tsp. Salt.
2 eggs.
1¼ cups milk.
2 tbsp. Butter fat.
Mix dry ingredients together, whip up eggs, add milk and butter fat, make a drop batter, bake from 20 to 30 minutes in moderately hot oven.

RED CABBAGE SALAD
Shred red cabbage very fine. 1 pint shredded cabbage add ½ tsp. Caraway seeds. Serve with French dressing.

Menu No. III

FRIED FINGER TIPS
½ pint flour.
3 tsp. Baking powder
½ tsp. Salt.
1 scant cup milk.
Make in very soft dough. Roll on bread board about 1 inch thick. Cut in finger lengths and fry in deep fat. Dip in syrup. To make syrup: 1 cup boiling water, 1¼ cup sugar, 4 tbsp. Ground cinnamon, 1 heaping tbsp. Butter. Boil until syrupy. Dip finger cakes in syrup and serve while hot.

Menu No. IV

POTATO SOUP
4 medium sized potatoes.
1 onion.
3 pepper corns.
1 small bay leaf.
1 quart fresh sweet milk.
1 tbsp. Butter.
½ tsp. Salt.
Dash of black pepper.
2 celery stalks or celery salt.
Boil potatoes, onions together until thoroughly done. Place milk in double boiler with pepper, corns, and flavorings. When milk has just come to boiling point, add potatoes, onion, and these ingredients. Serve with small strips of toast or crackers. Bean soup may be made from same recipe, using navy beans well cooked, and strain through colander.

RECREATIVE

Grace Engles Frost

When trill forth God's feathered creatures
In their rhapsodies of Spring,
When they, soaring, fan the ether
With a fleet, palpitating wing;
When the sun shines down benignly,
As he sifts his shimmering gold;
When the tale of re-creation
By each budding leaf is told;
When the breath of new-blown blossoms
Fills the balmy air, ah! There,
From the thrill of joyous nature,
Hope grows young again!

Hotel Utah Food Combinations

Louis J. Theu

Sunsweet Prune Cake

Wash and soak 4 pounds of Sunsweet Prunes in water, just enough to cover them, at least for 12 hours; put on slow fire and add ¼ pound sugar, 1 stick cinnamon, ½ lemon sliced; let them boil for ½ hour, take out of the pot with a skimmer carefully and remove the stones, put them on a napkin and when cool put them on ice so as to make them firm. Then take 2 pounds flour, 2 ounces yeast, 6 ounces butter, 6 ounces sugar, 8 eggs, a little salt and lemon flavor. Sift flour into bowl, put in the eggs and yeast previously dissolved in a little warm milk, add sufficiently luke warm milk to make a medium firm dough. Cover and let rise to double its size. It will take about 1 hour. Then work in the sugar, butter, a little salt and lemon flavor. Let it rise again, then roll out to about ½ inch thick and place it in a baking pan and brush with a little melted butter, put the prunes on top and let rise again. Bake in a moderate oven.

Beef Hash

Pick off all the meat from the roast beef left over from yesterday and cut into small dice pieces. Heat a tablespoon butter in a small sauce pan, add one finely chopped onion, and cook to a light brown, add the beef, and potatoes, season with salt and pepper; moisten with half pint broth, one whole tomato chopped in it. Set in oven and let cook for thirty minutes, remove, dress on a hot dish, sprinkle little chopped parsley over and serve.

Stuffed Tomato and Green Peppers With Rice

Heat in a saucepan one tablespoon melted butter, add finely chopped onions, and four ounces finely chopped raw ham and cook for a few minutes to a light brown, frequently stirring, add half cup raw rice lightly stir-and cook for one minute, moisten with a little broth and a gill of tomato sauce, season to taste with a teaspoon of curry powder, lightly mix. Cover the pan and let boil for five minutes, then set in oven for thirty minutes, remove and let cool off. Then fill up the peppers or tomato with the preparation, cover the top with a round piece of pepper or tomato, lay them in a tin, set them in the oven and bake for fifteen minutes. You can serve them with roast beef hash, or with tomato sauce.

Puree of Potato (Soup)

Place in saucepan a half pound salt pork, or ham. Cut in small pieces, 6 sliced leeks, one slice of onion, two bay leaves and one ounce butter, place pan on fire and brown for 10 minutes, stirring once in while, add six good size well-washed, peeled potatoes, moisten with broth, or water, season with salt and peppers. Cover pan and boil rather slowly for one hour. Press through sieve into a vessel, then through Chinese strainer into another saucepan and serve with small bread croutons.

Omelet—Maitre d' hotel

Break six fresh eggs in a bowl, add half gill cream, little chopped parsley and olives, salt and pepper, beat up with a fork for two minutes; heat an ounce butter in a black frying pan, drop in eggs sharply, mix until cooked. Fold up opposite sides to meet in center. Let rest for a few seconds, turn on hot dish and serve.

BOOK NOTICE

Women of the Bible

A very valuable book for reading and reference entitled, Women of the Bible, has been written and published by Willard Done, former president of the Latter-day Saints' College. This publication treats and discusses the lives and characters of some thirty-five prominent women of the Bible and gives a helpful insight into the study of the Bible itself. It is a splendid aid and an interesting supplement to Bible reading. This book has been used by the Relief Society as a text in the class work when a study was made of the women Bible characters. The book was found very interesting and stimulating and the General Board takes pleasure in recommending it as a valuable asset to any home, Relief Society, or Church library. The edition is almost exhausted and this will be the last opportunity to secure the work for individual, ward, or stake libraries. The book sells for $1 postpaid, with a discount of 20 per cent on orders for ten or more. Send orders to Willard Done, 514 Templeton Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Northern Mexico Recipes

Gladys Sanders

The Mexican strawberry, though ordinarily spoken of as a joke, is no joke in Northern Mexico where it composes the bulk of the food. That it is a nourishing food and also seemingly a producer of high romance, you would feel sure, were you to witness the usual: a hard day's work, a great supper of said Mexican strawberries, and then the sweetest, most weird music and singing of love, beautiful women, yes, of everything that breathes of perfume, beauty and grace. The Mexican strawberry is a medium size, light brown bean. It is superior in flavor to any I have ever found here.

Boiled Beans—A pint of beans boiled in plenty of water until tender. Place in a frying pan one cup of lard or compound, when hot pour into boiling beans. Add salt and pepper to taste. A hand full of dried peppers may be added. This is the usual way of preparing boiled beans in Mexico.

Fried Beans—One pint of beans boiled tender and almost dry, salt and pepper to taste. If chilies are used they should be scalded, seeded, and peeled always and boiled with beans, for as hot as they are they need some cooking. Place in a skillet one cup of lard or compound, when hot add beans and let fry until grease is absorbed and beans are slightly brown.

Beans and cheese—Boil beans as for soup in first recipe with plenty of soup. Chop up one small garlic, one onion and add to soup. Peel six or eight small potatoes, add to soup. Let boil until done. A dumpling added to this is fine if watched carefully and not let burn, as beans and dumplings have a tendency to adhere to the kettle.

Bean Tamales—On dry corn husks spread corn paste, a thin layer. To pint of well cooked beans, mashed into rather dry paste, add three red chilies. The prepare chilies, scald, peel, and run through sieve. Salt to taste. Place a small amount of beans down center of each paste covered husk, roll, fold ends, place in a steamer and steam until done, about an hour and a half.

Meat Tamales—The above recipe can be prepared with hamburger instead of beans and is quite a well known dish throughout this country. Cook hamburger as beans and prepare with chilies the same.

Chicken Tamales—Are prepared with chicken meat cut or ground into small bits and prepared with chili, same as above.

Chili Con-Carne—Two pounds fleshy beef, cut into cubes about one inch square. Let simmer in kettle with one-half cup of grease until done. Add four or five dried onions and one can tomatoes. Three or four red peppers scalded, peeled, seeded and cut into fragments. Let boil about twenty minutes. Salt to taste. Canned chilies are very good or chili powder may be used in place of red peppers.

Chili Rice—One cup of rice wiped on dry towel, place in frying pan where two heaping tablespoons of lard are heated. Stir until brown. Place in a kettle or pan one can tomatoes, add the rice and four large onions fried. Let simmer on back of stove about half hour. Add salt, pepper and chili powder or canned chilies and tablespoon of butter. Place in the oven with plenty of soup and let cook until brown on top.

Tartillas—One cup corn paste, small piece of lard, scant spoon sugar, half spoon of salt. Pat into thin circles, bake on hot stove or rock until slightly brown on either side. Tartillas are usually formed by slapping from one hand to other. They are the usual bread of Mexico and serve as a spoon in many cases.

A Cereal—Parched corn ground through coffee mill, served with milk and sugar is the only cereal I found prepared in Northern Mexico and it is very good. Pastry is very scarce, in fact I have never seen it prepared in the homes of the working people of northern Mexico at all. Sweet bread is sometimes purchased from the street vender. Fruit is sometimes purchased from the market or fruit stands. Do you wonder from such a diet that a grown man feels flattered when offered a stick of candy?

NEW DUET

Our pioneer musician and composer, John M. Chamberlain, has published a vocal duet suitable for girls' voices, which will be a welcome addition to Relief Society choirs; both words and music are by the talented composer. The suggestive words are carried along by graceful melody and harmony, and yet the music is easy for new beginners. The cover has a fine illustration of the title of the duet "Beautiful Rose." This duet can be obtained from any of the music stores in this city.

Home Economics

THE USE OF GAS IN THE HOME

Your Gas Bill

By taking the advice of household experts, the housekeeper is able to secure many valuable hints and new suggestions of practical economy. In the matter of cooking with gas, great saving can be effected by lowering the flame after the boiling point has been reached. The flame should be just high enough to keep the liquid at the boiling temperature.

About Your Oven

Practically no housewives have trouble in cooking on the top of their stoves, which includes boiling, and frying principally. But when it comes to baking, that is another story—as things do not always come out right. The majority of women have been using their ovens, more or less, by rule of thumb, and have been baking without the knowledge of temperature. Bad luck with baking is largely due, not to handling of the ingredients, or to incorrect measurements of ingredients, but is mostly due to lack of control of the oven. The oven tests on heats given with most recipes and cookery directions are far from easy to interpret. Just what is meant by the words moderate, slow oven, or quick oven, is not always clear. The use of the thermometer largely takes the guess work out of baking, and oftimes is a great help. But, it should be remembered that food is baked for the most part in the center of the oven, and any type of thermometer that is fastened to the door or side of the oven can only give an approximate indication of the temperature at the center. All gas ranges are now being equipped with a regulating device, which not only indicates the temperature of the oven, at the desired point, but maintains this temperature for an indefinite period of time. This feature is a wonderful help to the housewife as it enables her to place an entire meal in the oven, or any individual dish, and by setting the regulator at any desired temperature, she can go about her work or recreation without further cause to worry, as she is assured of perfect results.

Notes from the Field

Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary

Eastern States Mission, a direct motherly influence over the students away from home; 432 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The homes of the various members have been generously offered for Relief Society meetings, inasmuch as there is no chapel in the branch. A very earnest effort is now being made to provide a suitable chapel in New York for the Latter-day Saints. Miss Mabel Holmgren, who is in charge of the Relief Society work in the Eastern States Mission, and President George W. McCune, have extended a most helpful spirit to this ambitious group of sisters, who are working hard under the efficient leadership of their president, Mrs. Eva. F. Driggs, and other officers.

South African Mission. The Cape of Good Hope conference of the South African mission was held December 17 and 18, 1921, at mission headquarters, Cumorah, Main Road, Mowbray. At this conference a Relief Society organization was effected, with the following officers: president, Florence Jenkins; first counselor, Mary G. Stanley; second counselor, Ruth Walsh; secretary; Beatrice Julien; organist, M. R. T. Wilson.

Sevier Stake. During the winter the Relief Society stake board joined with the Mutual Improvement Association boards of the Sevier stake in their Bible class. Professor John Harrington, the seminary teacher in the local high school, conducted the class which met every Friday evening for an hour before the regular board meeting. A systematic study was made of the New Testament, which proved to be very enjoyable and profitable to those who attended. This stake has adopted the plan of holding Relief Society quarterly conferences in the various wards. This gives all Relief Society members in each ward an opportunity to attend a quarterly conference, which might otherwise not be possible, because of scattered conditions. In appreciation of the willing and excellent service of the ward workers, the stake board entertained all the Relief Society members, together with all the married people of the stake. Special invitations were extended to the officers of the Sevier, North Sevier, and South Sevier stakes.

Northern States Mission. The three Chicago Relief Societies, Roseland, University, and Logan Square held a celebration in commemoration of the eightieth anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. This was held on the 17th of March in the Logan Square chapel. A pleasing program was rendered, of which one of the features was a sketch of the "Meeting of Honeyville Relief Society in 1852." The characters wore the costumes of their grandmothers and great grandmothers, which attracted considerable attention. The Chicago Herald Examiner sent a reporter to the celebration, and several flashlight pictures were taken of this old fashioned group. One of the pictures appeared in the pictorial section of this paper. A successful tour of the Northern States mission Relief Societies was made by Bertha Thurgood and Hilda Knudson, who assist Mrs. Emily Whitney Smith, president of the Mission Relief Societies. They met with officers and members, holding a special Relief Society conference in each branch, encouraging and instructing the sisters, and auditing the Relief Society books. Everything was found in splendid condition, and an excellent spirit seemed to prevail.

Kanab Stake. The Kanab ward presidency, in honor of the Relief Society teachers, held a social last winter. This ward has been emphasizing the teachers' work, and the progress has been pleasing and satisfactory.

Rod Blackfoot Stake. This picture of the Aberdeen ward Relief Society shows the growth of the Society since its organization six years ago. It was organized with nine members. Its present enrollment is 52. The women of this ward are energetic and enthusiastic and have accomplished much in the various activities of the Relief Society.

ABERDEEN WARD RELIEF SOCIETY

San Luis Stake. The new Relief Society hall in the Manassa Second ward, was dedicated Saturday night, March 11. The building of this hall was a notable accomplishment of the Relief Society sisters, who are presided over by Mrs. Alta Boice, and two able counselors. The building stands upon a piece of ground in a favorable locality, donated by Irene Smith. There are two rooms, a meeting room and a vestry—the latter fitted with cupboards for work material, The larger room is delightful in its newness, with its matched floor, white walls, organ and appropriate furnishings. President Boice reported that the total cost of the building was $1900. An interesting program was carried out. Among the speakers were Relief Society Stake President Martha E. Haskell; Stake President William O. Crowther; Rulon S. Wells and President Rudger Clawson. The dedicatory prayer was offered by President Clawson. All in all, it was a very impressive occasion, and this splendid new meeting hall for the sisters, secured under extraordinary difficulties, will ever stand as a monument to their faith and good works.

Parowan Stake. The Paragoonah ward Relief Society, in the death of Mrs. Matilda J. Davenport and Mrs. Ellen B. Robb, lost two earnest and valuable workers. Both were teachers in the ward and were loved and respected by everyone in the community. Mrs. Davenport served as second counselor in the Relief Society for four years, which position she filled faithfully and well. She was a home-maker and a devoted mother. Her willing service and pleasing personality made for her many warm friends. Mrs. Ellen B. Robb endeared herself to all who knew her by her deeds of kindness and humility. She is known for the promptness with which she dispatched her various duties and her life was one of untiring service.

Jordan Stake. The Riverton ward has arranged in their Relief Society meetings have the preliminary program furnished each week by non-members. Each teacher's district is responsible for the program and active in the society. The teachers are also given the privilege of holding cheer-up meetings and socials in their own districts, for one month. In this way many lay members become interested securing first the approval of the president.

Fremont Stake. A special feature of the Plano ward Relief Society conference, held early in the year, was a review of theology lessons for the year 1921, given by Agnes Haynes. The review covered the various topics that had been discussed in the meetings and gave evidence of the thorough and earnest study of those theological subjects.

South Sanpete Stake. The South Sanpete stake Relief Society is pleased to report that the present subscription to the Magazine is greatly in advance of the list of last year. In many homes the Magazine has become indispensable. The spirit of Relief Society is brought to the homes of those who are aged and those who are physically unable to leave home, by holding little socials and bestowing some small gift. In one of the wards the Relief Society gave a social in honor of a new member who, together with her husband and child, had just come from England. The occasion was marked by a feeling of love and deep interest for the newcomer. The president, in fitting words, presented the honored guest with a beautiful quilt made by the Relief Society. Ward conferences were held throughout the stake during the latter part of last year. The meetings were held on Sunday and were well attended.

In Memoriam —: bast

The South Sanpete stake board lost one of its valuable workers in the death of Mrs. Diantha L. Reid of Manti. She was a capable and energetic worker in the various fields in which she labored. She possessed the native tact and skill that are essential to successful leadership and efficient home making. She inherited qualities and traits from her sturdy pioneer ancestors which marked her as a dependable and earnest worker.

Summit Stake. A prize of Relief Society song books was offered by the Relief Society board of this stake for the ward obtaining the highest average percent of attendance for a month. One ward had an enrollment of 19 and an average attendance of 24 for three months in succession. Kamas ward holds a social every month. The women of the Relief Society have also become interested in outdoor games and they have purchased a volley ball. Several contests have been held between the members of the Relief Society and the Primary officers. The Hoytsville ward purchased a piano for their society, obtaining the funds from an egg collection. An egg a day was solicited from the various members and the Bee Hive girls assisted in the collection. In one ward the unusual record was made of 119 per cent Magazine subscribers.

Taylor Stake. On February 28, the stake board and the members of the Welling, and Raymond First and Second wards, held a surprise in honor of the stake presidency of Relief Society, Georgina O'Brien, Mary McCarty, and Maria Scovil. This date was President O'Brien's birthday. An interesting program was rendered, games were played, and refreshments were served. Each of the honored guests was presented with a bouquet of carnations. Special guests were President Mildred Harvey and her counselor, Mary E, Green of the Lethbridge stake Relief Society. A poem written for the occasion by Helen Kimball Orgill was read.

Bannock Stake. Very successful conferences were conducted in each Relief Society in the Bannock stake. Also during the year, four district teachers' conventions were held where special instructions were given and the topics for presentation in the homes were discussed. A stake bazaar was conducted from which was realized $360. The Red Cross Christmas seal sale was managed under the direction of the Relief Society.

Big Horn Stake. A special effort to increase the enrollment at all of the Relief Society meetings met with pleasing results in Big Horn stake. The average attendance at the union meetings was increased from 85 to 120 within the year.

Juab Stake. The stake Relief Society officers conducted an excursion to the Manti temple in 1921. Representatives from all wards were in attendance. Twenty-three days of charity work was done and $20 donated to the temple. In an effort to give proper maternity care to mothers and to provide proper attention and necessary clothing for the infants, the stake Relief Society has set aside $200 for maternity welfare work.

Lost River Stake. The Lost River stake reports that successful ward conferences were held by the Relief Societies during 1921, which were presided over by the stake presidents. In Butte county the Red Cross Christmas seal sale was organized by the Relief Society. The sale was successfully conducted and netted the Red Cross $124.

Nature's Perfect Food

By A. A. Hinckley, Commissioner of Agriculture for Utah

Side by side in Bulletin 342 issued by the Agricultural Experiment Station of the University of Wisconsin, two very interesting pictures appear. They are worthy of careful study. The first is of two rats, the same age, which had been fed exactly alike except that one had received cottonseed oil equal to five per cent of its ration, while the other had received butter fat amounting to one and one half per cent of its ration. The other picture is also of two rats of the same age and sex. One of these received a so-called butter substitute as five per cent of its ration; while the other was given an equal amount of butter fat. In both cases the rats receiving butterfat as a part of their food are large, sleek and healthy looking; both the others are small, less than half the size of their companions, with rough hides, sore eyes and are pitiable looking sights. Dr. E. V. McCollum, one of the world's great experts on food, conducted the experiments and his conclusions are highly valued throughout the world. There are a number of other pictures in this Bulletin, all of which are decidedly illuminating. One of them is of two dogs from the same litter. They were fed on cooked rolled oats, cooked corn meal, casein, salts and 7 ounces of skimmed milk daily. The first dog received in addition 1-3 ounce of butter daily. The other did not. Notwithstanding the fact that the former was an inferior puppy at the beginning of the test, it became healthy and active and more than quadrupled its weight in seventeen weeks, The other dog, which at the beginning was in excellent condition, did not quite double its weight in seventeen weeks, going from 1,640 to 3,250 grams. When the test was ended it was severely afflicted with rickets and died two weeks after the picture was taken. Though it had plenty to eat it would hardly be an exaggeration to say it starved to death. However, one need not go to the animal kingdom for pictures of distressing undernourished creatures. Scores of pamphlets are being issued by the federal government, by state experiment stations and by numerous milk campaign committees, which make comparisons between children properly and improperly fed, and the difference between them is as startling as it is in the case of Dr. McCollum's well-fed but starving animals. Indeed, the difference between groups that have had milk and those who have not is sufficiently great to be decidedly alarming. Boys, hollow chested and with protruding shoulder blades, are shown. They are expected to compete in their life's work with rugged, hearty lads who, because of their physical fitness, are able to stand up under an avalanche of hard work. Girls, equally deficient physically, will be expected to carry upon their slender shoulders all the burdens of home making and motherhood. Much comfort can be found in the fact that hundreds of cases are recorded where these undernourished children have been brought up to the normal standard by giving them one quart of milk each day. Doubtless in some cases this physical unfitness is traceable to causes beyond the reach of any diet, but food experts have proved conclusively that the elements essential to growth, and which are found so abundantly in milk and its products, are as necessary for human development as they are for the lower animals. So important is this matter, that Governor Mabey had a committee of "forward-looking citizens" called, and these men and women have launched a campaign to increase the consumption of milk and its products. This movement had its inception in a desire to build up the whole community and not in the interest of one industry. Similar campaigns are being waged in other states. It is not designed as an effort which will end with a day or a month; but is intended to inculcate correct food habits, and none can hope that its mission will ever be entirely finished. Milk drinking is not a fad. The cow had her place in the earliest history of the world. Milk and butter formed an important part of the meal served by Abraham to his three holy visitors on the plains of Mamre, and the most alluring description ever given to any land is one "flowing with milk and honey." A child's richest inheritance is health. Its parents may be healthy and strong. They may have the blessed gift of being able to transmit these qualities to their offspring, but unless the "essentials to life," vitamins, are adequately supplied in its food, its physical growth will be unsatisfactory. As these and many other essentials are found in most adaptable form in milk, dietitians are pretty well agreed that a quart a day is not too much for the growing child, and all are united in saying that adults will be better off through a liberal use of milk and its products. We are told that the expectant mother fails in her duty toward her future babe if she does not supply her own body with certain elements found in convenient form in this "Nature's Perfect Food." Among the Latter-day Saints, the findings of these scientists will be the more readily accepted because there is such unanimity between them and the revelations of the Lord as given in the "Word of Wisdom." Almost without exception they advise against the use of tea and coffee, even among adults, and express vigorous disapproval of its use among children. They state also that the nation's meat bill is almost three times what it should be, from the standpoint of health. Because of the revealed word, we know they are correct in these particular conclusions, and we would therefore be justified in giving credence to their statements, even if they were not corroborated by such a list of experiments. Briefly stated, their advice is to use more milk, butter and cheese, more vegetables and less meat. A quart of milk a day for each member of the family is not too much. Milk should be taken as a food, not a beverage. Butter should be used freely. A substitute takes the place of butter about as well as a wooden leg takes the places of the real thing.

YOUR SERVICES TO GOD AND MAN

Hannah Deady Tomsik

Do you watch by the bed of the dying,
Do you close the sad eyes of the dead,
Do you still the first cry of the newborn babe
And cuddle it close in bed?
Are you always where you are needed most?
Do your bit whenever you can?
Then you are living and you

Vol. IX AUGUST, 1922 No. 8

RESIGNATION OF MRS. SUSA YOUNG GATES

Dear Sisters:—We regret to announce, that at the regular weekly meeting of the General Board of the Relief Society, held June 28, 1922, at Relief Society headquarters, in the Bishop's Building, the resignation of our esteemed sister, Susa Young Gates, as a member of the General Board and Editor of the Relief Society Magazine, was presented and unanimously accepted. No doubt this resignation will be as great a surprise to our numerous readers, and all members of the Relief Society, as it was to the presidency and members of the General Board. We wish to assure our readers that the Magazine will continue to express similar religious and spiritual sentiments for the advancement of women as have heretofore always characterized its pages. We bespeak for the Magazine the same loyal support in the future that you have given in the past. We deeply appreciate the efficient and faithful work Sister Gates has accomplished, and our prayers and good wishes go with her in whatever field of activity she may decide to enter, or wherever she may be.

Clarissa S. WILLIAMS  
Jennie B. Knight  
Louise Y. Robison  
Relief Society Presidency.

EDITORIAL

441

FAREWELL TO THE READERS OF "THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE"

To the Latter-day Saint, there is no such word as farewell or finish, for to us life and effort, expression and development, go right on ever and forever. We may part from friends for a time, through removal or through other natural changes and readjustments, but you and I, friends, we do not say good-bye at any time, for we go right on developing, achieving, no matter if our life-barques put in at other ports or sail different seas for a time. We are all engaged in the same great battle of life, and though our leaders may find it wise to place us here, or to engage our services in another part of the field, if we love God, and desire greatly to bring to pass righteousness, we shall be assured that there is always a place, a labor that only we can do. We are all very much needed, you and I, for there is much to do and so few who know or who really care about the salvation of souls compared to the great hosts of earth-dwellers. The pages of this Magazine will now lack the name and symbol of one who has stood for earnest desire, for strenuous labor, but I would have you know in this parting hour that the one whose name and symbol follows after will need just as much patience, as much loyalty, as has this other whose barque is now charted for another, little different course. Will you love her, and help her, and be loyal to her? For she will be worthy, and she will need all that help from you. Then, too, be assured that there is only the sweet sorrow of parting which is still so much a part of human limitations in this last word of mine to you, dear friends, without one shade of regret for I have done wisely in this separation and have taken counsel. Our President Clarissa S. Williams agrees entirely with this parting of ours and I bear you my testimony that she is the one chosen of God through his servant for her high and exalted position. So that we are all trying in our human ways to think first and only of the great work of the Relief Society which was organized through revelation from God to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and not of ourselves as individuals nor of our personal reactions to this or that phase of the work. It is so that I have always written, it is so that you have always read, and it is so now that I greet you and leave you, dear friends all, for a season.

Susa Young Gates.

Guide Lessons for October

LESSON I

Theology and Testimony (First Week in October)

MIRACLES

What Miracles Are: The miracle is an event or operation caused by the interposition of some super-human power. Miracles are supernatural in the sense that in the performing of them the operations of the forces of nature are modified by superhuman intelligence and power to the extent of bringing results that would not have come without this interposition. Miracles are also natural because they are performed in obedience to natural laws. In walking upon the water, Jesus did not suspend the operation of the law of gravity, but he introduced a spiritual force that lifted in opposition to the down pull of gravity. The operation was as natural as causing a piece of iron to float by holding a magnet over it. The one was a miracle because the power that adjusted nature was super-human, the other was not a miracle because the power of adjustment was human. Miracles are usually known as "acts of God", but they may be acts of other beings.

A Classification of Miracles. As to quality, miracles are of two kinds, real and apparent. A real miracle is an event in which super-human intelligence or power has actually taken a direct part, as in the case of the conception, and the resurrection of Christ, and innumerable lesser events which never could have come about without super-human interposition. An apparent miracle is an event which appears to have in it the interposition of the super-human to the extent of directing and changing the operations of natural forces as in the case of an eclipse of the sun being considered as a special act of the super-human to exhibit displeasure, or the natural breaking forth of a volcano, as related to the immediate consciousness and special will of the super-human. Real miracles make for religion and faith, apparent miracles make for superstition.

GUIDE LESSONS

443

As to their nature, miracles are either miracles of knowledge or miracles of power. Miracles of knowledge include dreams, visions, inspirations, whisperings of the Spirit, prophecy, revelation, and seership. Miracles of power include healings, preservation, deliverance and their opposites. Lepers were miraculously made as well as cured; individuals and communities have been miraculously destroyed as well as preserved. The Lord drove Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden to combat with Satan, and delivered them from death through the great miracle of redemption including the greatest miracle of power ever performed on this earth, the resurrection.

As to their source, miracles are either divine or demoniacal. This source distinction in miracles has extensive scriptural recognition. The divinely rejected King of Israel sought the witch of Endor. I Samuel 28. Satan showed miraculous power in the presence of Moses. Pearl of Great Price, Chapter I. Jesus was tauntingly accused of performing demoniacal miracles. Mark 3:22. Joseph Smith was attacked and temporarily overpowered by Satan in the Sacred Grove. Pearl of Great Price. Writings of Joseph Smith, 2:15.

Miracle Instruments

The oldest miracle instrument of record is the Urim and Thummim, used in both ancient and modern Israel as an instrument for miraculously obtaining knowledge. See Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham, 3:1-4; I Samuel, 28:6; Pearl of Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith, 2:59. A rod, see Exodus 4:17, the Liahona, see Book of Mormon, I Nephi 16:10, 16, 28, 29: also 18:12, 21. Seer Stone. See Doctrine and Covenants, 130:10. There is no record of Jesus having used any mechanical instrument in performing miracles, the nearest approach to it was in the case where he anointed the blind man's eyes with mud made from spittle and clay.

The Objectives or Purpose of Divine Miracles. While each divine miracle has its special purpose, it is evident that there are two general objectives or purposes behind most of them. First, the comfort of the humble; and, second, the humiliation of the haughty. Miracles are more faith-sustaining than faith-producing. They are to be appreciated more than to be sought for. They are to be prized but not paraded or set forth in a boastful manner. The humble recital of miraculous events is a most effective method of fixing the faith of the young people. Miraculous events will stand unmeasured reiteration without losing their spiritual effectiveness, if the recitals are accompanied by the Spirit of the Lord.

444

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

It is marvelous how multitudes will respond without tiring at the retold story of the Lord's interposition in behalf of his people, and what is true with the community is true of the family in this respect.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS

1. In what respect is a miracle super-natural, and from what point of view is every miracle perfectly natural? Name six kinds of miracles considered in this lesson. Judging from the reported effects of using it, to which of the two sources of miracles does the planchette belong? 4. In the miracle contest between Aaron and the magicians of Egypt, what lesson was plainly taught? Exodus 7:8-12. 5. What valuable lesson is to be learned concerning miracles by a study of the conversation between Christ and Satan? Matt. 4:3-10. 6. Discuss this proposition: The sacredness of miracles suggests that we be willing to put our whole selves into doing a thing before we can consistently desire divine aid—divine interposition in our behalf.

BIN

LESSON II

Work and Business. (Second Week in October)

LESSON III

Literature. (Third Week in October)

In our first lesson, introducing hymns, we told you that one of the most famous hymns in all Christendom is, "A mighty fortress is our God," written by Martin Luther. This hymn becomes doubly significant when we take into consideration the fact that Luther wrote the words, and is in all probability the composer of the music. This music, thought to be Luther's, has remained from the first the most popular music for the hymn. Another fact connected with this hymn will undoubtedly appeal to all Americans. Despite the fact that Thomas Carlyle gave us a translation. The translation made by the Rev. Henry Hedge. A graduate of Harvard University, is rapidly supplanting all other translations.

The famous old Saint Augustine defined a hymn as a song

GUIDE LESSONS

445

with praise to God. Says he, "If thou singest and praisest not God, thou utterest no hymn." Dr. Johnson defines a hymn "as a song of adoration to some superior being," of course, that superior being must be God, according to St. Augustine. The scope of the hymn has been broadened since St. Augustine's day; yet on one thing authorities are generally agreed, that a hymn must radiate a spirit of uplift; consequently any song void of the spirit of uplift would be deficient as a hymn, "A mighty fortress is our God," born of the great Protestant reformation, embraces any and all of the definitions here quoted.

The fact that Luther gave to the world the German Bible has had a tendency to obscure the fact that he also gave the world a catechism and a hymnbook, thereby making of him the greatest of German hymnists. He began to write hymns in 1523, and continued to do so for twenty years, yet, as one writer puts it, with such a high regard for quality rather than quantity that he averaged only one a year. His first German hymnbook appeared in 1524. It contained only eight hymns, four of them from Luther. He wrote in his life about twenty-four hymns and translated about an equal number from the Latin. There is abundant evidence that Luther's hymn book was most valuable in spreading the Reformation; "The whole people," they said, "is singing itself into the Lutheran doctrine."

"A mighty fortress is our God" has gained such preeminence over all other hymns Luther has written that it is commonly known as Luther's hymn, and very commonly thought of as his only hymn. The forty-sixth Psalm, the song of the Hebrew prophet David, was the inspiration of this song: "God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble." The date of the composition of the hymn is unknown, but one thing is certain concerning it that it soon became widely known among the Protestants. The German poet, Heine, called it the Marseilles of the Reformation.

"A mighty fortress is our God,  
A bulwark never failing,  
Our helper he, amid the flood  
Of mortal ills prevailing.  
For still our ancient foe,  
Doth seek to work his woe,  
His craft and power are great,  
And armed with cruel hate,  
On this earth is not his equal."

446

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

In words of great majesty Luther tells us that God is a mighty fortress to protect us from the wiles of the evil one.

"Did we in our own strength confide,  
Our striving would be losing;  
Were not the right man on our side,  
The man of God's own choosing.  
Did you ask who that may be?  
Christ Jesus it is he;  
Lord Sabaoth is his name,  
From age to age the same,  
And he must win the battle."

Few hymns set forth as clearly as does the second stanza of this hymn our absolute dependence on Christ, as our Redeemer, how it must needs be that we should be overcome by the craft and power of the evil one, were it not that "the man of our God's own choosing" is on our side.

"And though this world with devils filled  
Should threaten to undo us,  
We will not fear for God hath willed  
His truth to triumph through us.  
Let goods and kindred go.  
This mortal life also,  
The body they may kill;  
God's truth abideth still,  
His kingdom is forever."

Surely a marvelous expression of faith in the triumph of righteousness, and the preciousness of the eternal life, and the value of things spiritual when compared with all else in the world. The Latter-day Saints have sacrificed kindred and friends, worldly honors and worldly goods many times for the gospel, counting all else as nothing, if not within its embrace. The Saints have held that Martin Luther was inspired of God; surely this hymn is one of the evidences of the power of God resting upon him. The Reformation, carried forth by Luther and other great evangelists, paved the way for that which is greater, the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ, restored through the great latter-day prophet, Joseph Smith.

Luther's hymn is a real contribution to song literature, hymnology in particular, because of the exaltation of the thought and the emotion and the adequate way in which he has been able to express the thought and emotion. There is a very fine balance

GUIDE LESSONS

447

observed throughout, a balance continually sought for by writers, but not often acquired.

QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS

1. What do we mean by the Reformation? 2. What period of time did Martin Luther's life cover? 3. Into what language did Luther translate the Bible? 4. Have someone in the class read the 46th Psalm. 5. Take the three expressions, "God is our refuge and strength," "A mighty fortress is our God," and "Rock of Ages, cleft for me," and see if you can trace a resemblance in the thought of each of these expressions. 6. Who made use of the first expression? Of what nationality was the poet? Who made the second expression? Of what nationality was the second writer. Who made use of the third expression? What was the last author's nationality? 7. Of what nationality is the man who has given the Christian world the most acceptable translation of Luther's hymn in the English language? 8. If possible have your organist find the music to the hymn, and have it sung during the meeting. 9. Name some L. D. S. Composer or composers who have written both the words and music to a hymn? 10. Give some instances of Latter-day Saint hymns assisting in the conversion of persons to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

WR

WN

LESSON IV

Social Service (Fourth Week in October)

THE HOME AND EARLY ADOLESCENCE

The age from 12 to 18

In our study of moral leadership in the home, we have been concerned mainly with the general problems of providing proper environment and stimulating proper ideals. And our consideration has been confined to the lives of our small children. We must now direct our attention to the more specific problem of how to direct the lives of youth who are approaching manhood and womanhood. We shall consider this problem in four lessons. The present and following lesson will deal with the moral problems of the boy and girl from twelve to eighteen years of age. Then will follow two lessons with the period from eighteen to twenty-five years of age.

448

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF EARLY ADOLESCENCE

When the boy and girl passes from childhood to adulthood. There are certain very profound changes that take place physically as well as mentally. On the physical side this period is marked by very rapid growth, sometimes almost doubling the rate of growth within a single year. With many young people there is also a loss of energy, manifest sometimes in a disinclination to do strenuous work. Parents are apt to interpret this tendency as mere laziness. But before passing hasty judgment we should bear in mind that every human being has a limited amount of physical energy and if this is spent building up bodily tissues it is not available for activity. This is also the awkward period in the child's life. He seems not to have his growing limbs under proper control. This coupled with the tendency for certain parts of his body to grow more rapidly than other parts, frequently cause our youth considerable annoyance and embarrassment. But the most important physical change is of course the development of the sex functions. There is no function of the physical organism so important as that of reproduction, and unfortunately there is no function of the human body the nature of which is less understood. Some of the most serious vices develop during this early period because parents fail to teach their children the meaning and sacredness of the sexual organs. Nature's laws are God's laws and must be respected. These physical changes should be observed carefully by parents from the standpoint of both health and morals.

MENTAL CHARACTERISTICS OF EARLY ADOLESCENCE

These physical changes described above are accompanied by significant mental changes. This is the time of great emotional instability. Quoting from an educator of national reputation; "Fear, anger, love, pity, jealousy, emulation, ambition and sympathy are either now born or springing into their most intense life. Morally this is the time when the ideals are formed and when. Ideals clash. Because of this inner conflict, this stage is sometimes called the period of "storm and stress." This is the time, too, when there is a general religious awakening. From good authority we are informed that there are more religious conversions at this stage than any other time of life. This is the time when lasting judgments are formed and permanent sentiments established which makes it necessary for careful direction in both thought and feeling. If the child does not learn at this time to place a high value upon virtue he may never do it. If he is not impressed at this time of the great mis-

GUIDE LESSONS

449

sion of religion and of his church he may always remain religiously indifferent. In all the organizations of the Church which deal with this period, we need the finest type of manhood and womanhood, mentally, morally, and spiritually, to guide them.

THE BASHFUL AGE

There is perhaps no time in the life of a human being when he suffers quite so much self-consciousness or bashfulness as during his early adolescence. He discovers suddenly that his feet and hands are large. He becomes aware of his awkwardness, and this feeling is intensified by a consciousness that everybody is observing him. Youths find it quite difficult to coordinate their movements as they do to control their emotions. Because of this situation many boys and girls prefer to spend considerable time alone; they hide themselves away from the eyes of adults and especially from the notice of the opposite sex. This period of self-consciousness may last only a few months, but it frequently lasts two or three years. During this period the youth needs the sympathy of parents and older brothers and sisters. Great precaution should be taken not to embarrass young people while they are passing through this stage and every effort should be made to get their confidence. There is no time in the life of an individual when he so needs the love of older people. He has come into a new social world, one to which he has difficulty in adjusting himself. He wants to ask questions and requires answers to them. He needs to know something about his body and its organs which heretofore concerned him very little. God is, at this stage in his development, endowing him with powers never before felt and the meaning of which he can hardly understand. The whole world seems to take on a mystery which calls for explanation. The duty of clarifying these things and pointing the way to a successful career rests upon father and mother. At this time parents should associate more freely with their sons and daughters. They should join with them in their activities. Every effort should be made to get into their world of thought and emotions. If the young son or daughter falls in love at sixteen years of age, and many of them actually think they do, the parents should be the first to be told about it. And in place of ridiculing the young boy or girl, the parents should take time to talk to them sympathetically, advise and direct, but never laugh at or ridicule them. Also when the boy or girl experiences the changes of life the parents should be ready to give the necessary information. Too often, however, the most important type of information is given to youth by immature individuals, or those who are not of the highest spiritual and moral type. This is the golden moment for moral education, and

450

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

parents too often fail to make use of the opportunity which this transition presents.

References: Hall: Practical Sociology, Chapter 13. Cope: Religious Education in the Family.

Questions:

1. Name some of the physical characteristics of youth from 12 to 18 years of age. 2. What are important mental changes that take place at this time? 3. Give reasons why a bashful youth should not be laughed at. 4. When a child is inclined not to take his parents into his confidence, what is a sensible attitude for the parents to take? 5. Do you believe that the period from 12 to 18 years of age is the most appropriate time for sex education? Give your reasons. 6. What difficulties stand in the way of proper sex education? Are the difficulties insurmountable? 7. What special instruction should be given to the girls during early adolescence? What special dangers come into the lives of boys at this time?

TEACHER'S TOPIC

October

I. Evils of Hallowe'en Pranks. (a) Respect for other people's rights and property a sacred obligation. (b) Seasonable and wholesome pleasures.

MUSIC

"Music is an art in which the conception of the beautiful is in no sense based upon the physical world which surrounds us. Its power to evoke an inner dream of beauty is greater and more immediate than any of the arts. Music is a language which begins where the words end—a vision which is made clear long after the eyes can no longer perceive."

God Bless My Stupid Soul

"In the presence of human stupidity even the gods stand helpless."—Carlyle.

Mary Foster Gibbs

Dear Lord, please help me love the stupid folks, Dull, heavy-brained, with thoughts that skip Upon the surface of their talk like milkweed Blown by summer gales. Indeed they do not think—they only feel A sense of fellowship and a funny sort of pride Which makes them full of swift resentment, If you fail to do them honor. Is not this America? Are we not all the members of Christ's Church? The stupid folks, who tell their silly, stupid jokes,— Who comment in their stupid fashion on the news? Who criticize with bitter glee the men who climb Out of slothfulness and crass stupidity Into The surer heights of intellect. And art: They are so stupid, Lord, so like a chattering magpie; Or worse, just like a silent, ignorant fish. Dear Lord, please help the stupid folk to feel kindly unto me, For I have penetrated neath the surface of some low-moving wits, And have found a wealth of love and sympathy for all God's children. They take the time to be affectionate and kind to all who will respond., Quick help they sometimes offer, even if their tongues are silent with stupidity. And are they stupid? Or is it I, who am so slow to wit? I cannot understand, Or will not always take the time to fathom The deeps of strong emotion which often Lie Beneath the lumbering speech and slow-moving thought, or thought-barrenness. How dost Thou measure stupid folk, Thou Perfect One? By rule of wit or tongue, by education bought in schools? Or by the schooling of the heart which leaps in sure response To god-like impulse for the right and truth! Dear Lord, Thou must have loved the stupid people, Thou hast made so many of them. And I am glad to know, that I myself am stupid, And therefore loved of Thee. Help Thou my great stupidity!

The Utah State National Bank

The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them.

Officers

Heber J. Grant, President.  
Anthony W. Ivins, Vice-President.  
Charles W. Nibley, Vice-President.  
Chas. S. Burton, Vice-President.  
Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier.  
Alvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier.  
John W. James, Asst. Cashier.

Mention Relief Society Magazine

WHY COOK OVER A HOT RANGE?

Cook with electricity—clean, cool, safe, convenient, economical.

Utah Power & Light Co.  
"Efficient Public Service"

Mention Relief Society Magazine

Lillian Wirth Maternity Home

1820 South 5th East  
Salt Lake City, Utah

A most desirable place for maternity cases. All comforts of home, and most conscientious work guaranteed, plus reasonable rates Call Hyland 606 for information

THE FLOWER SHOP

ELIZABETH HUTH, Prop.  
Telephone 73  
ECCLES BLDG., OGDEN

AT McINTYRE'S

Engraved Wedding Announcements

You will find that wedding invitations which attract you at once by their unusual beauty and style are from—

The House of Pembroke

Samples sent on request. Mail orders promptly cared for. Reasonable Prices

Start Where You Are

If you are ever to succeed, you must do it by starting from where you are. Success is won a step at a time. Each day must show progress. Promotion comes because you have made yourself more valuable—have proved that you are able to handle large responsibilities. The record of our graduates proves that our training is practical, that it fits you for a desirable place in business, that it gives you knowledge and sharpens your ability in a manner that not only enables you to take advantage of opportunities but to create them. Join us next Monday.

L. D. S. Business College  
Salt Lake City, Utah  
All the Year. Day and Evening  
22 East 3rd South  
Salt Lake City

To the Relief Society Magazine SUBSCRIBERS

Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appear on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for your Expiration

Ice Cream: Candy Cake-Luncheons

PHONE WAS. 3223 - P.O. BOX 1713 - SALT LAKE CITY

Service Press

Better Printers of Better Printing  
Phone Was. 4044

A Page for Every Woman

Containing latest patterns—fascinating health and beauty suggestions—recipes for cooking special dishes—and numerous articles that have special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness—wholesomeness and dependability characterizes

The Deseret News  
Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

228 West Broadway  
Salt Lake City

Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock

BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME

36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED

Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used. In Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered

THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."

BUREAU OF INFORMATION

Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made Western Scout Shoes

Made of solid leather throughout. Comfortable to wear—have a good appearance—guaranteed to give satisfaction

FOR THE MINER  
FOR THE LABORER  
FOR THE FARMER  
FOR THE MECHANIC

Or any other man whose work demands strong, serviceable shoes

We make them in three grades of elk leather, and also in a split leather, with and without chrome soles—in chocolate, pearl, black.

Temple Block  
Salt Lake City

—pure foods are home products of the finest quality. Why not patronize home industry and have the best for foods too. Pierce's food products have been the pride of Utah people for 34 years. Everybody likes Pierce's. Buy them by the case for economy.

Tomato Soup  
Hominy

UTAH CANNING CO.

Daddy of 'Em All

Ogden Since 1888

Time Temperature NOW A PART OF ALL RECIPES

With a Lorain Oven Heat Regulator you tell the oven just what you want. No guess work.

A Gas Range With Lorain Regulator Gives You Better Food to Eat—Less Trouble to Cook

Utah Gas & Coke Co.  
351 So. Main  
Phone Was. 705

Mention Relief Society Magazine

Sanitary Packed Everlastingly Backed by

Tomato Catsup

S. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY

Successors to Joseph E. Taylor

Funeral directors to the People of Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860.

PHONE WASATCH 912.

An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service.

Mention Relief Society Magazine

S. M. TAYLOR, President  
A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas.  
251-257 East First South Street.