The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

CONTENTS JULY, 1922 

Guests Grace Ingles Frost 347  
Our Hymn Book Susa Young Gates 349  
An Indian Story Lucy Guyman Bloomfield 357  
Trust in God Abby K. Robinson 363  
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 364  
Parting (Music) George Careless 377  
Teacher Training 378  
Let us Seek Eternal Life Reinhard Maeser 383  
Peace Rebecca F. Lewis 385  
The General Procession James H. Anderson 386  
Ann and Her Husband 391  
Guide Lessons for September 394  
Your Thirty Slaves 399  

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY  
Patronize those who patronize us.  

BUREAU OF INFORMATION, Temple Block, Salt Lake City, Utah
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
DESERET BOOK CO., 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
THE DESERET NEWS, Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
FLOWER SHOP, Eccles Bldg., Ogden, Utah
KEELEY'S, Salt Lake City, Utah
MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
McCONAHAY, Jeweler, 64 So. Main St., Phone W. 1821
NATIONAL BANK OF COMMERCE, Ogden, Utah
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT, Bishop's Building Salt Lake City
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City
SERVICE PRESS PRINTERS, 228 W. Broadway, Salt Lake City
S. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY, 251-57 East 1st South
UTAH CANNING COMPANY, Ogden, Utah
UTAH GAS CO.
UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City, Utah
Z. C. M. I., Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah

Guests
Grace Ingles Frost

When life's hours grow solitary
A reception oft I hold
In the spacious halls of memory,
For my friends, both young and old.
One by one with smiles they greet me,
As they pause to press my hand,
Courtly knights and gentle ladies,
Kings and queens of Friendship's Land.
Now and then rings merry laughter,
When 'tis pleasantry's just due,
With oft times a word of homage
Spoken low with accent true.
Thus are vanished lonely hours,
And increasing more and more,
Are the royal guests I welcome
Yearly to my castle door.

Parley P. Pratt
W. W. PHELPS

THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. IX JULY, 1922 No. 7

Our Hymn Book
By Susa Young Gates

The great interest taken in the study of our hymns suggests an inquiry into the history of the hymn book which has been so vital a part of the worship of our people for nearly a century. The Catholic and pagan churches had good and beautiful music always in their church services, but this music was formal in character and sung only by men or boys, with occasional responses of Amen, intoned by the congregation. This custom was patterned, no doubt, after the song rituals of the Hebrew temple where the singers and musicians in their elaborate temple services came down the steps from the Gate Beautiful singing their psalms of praise; while the kneeling worshipers in the various courts responded occasionally with various musical intonations. With the violent breaking away from Catholic traditions, inaugurated by Martin Luther, in the music of the church, at least for all protestant churches, women were allowed to assist male singers; hymn books were prepared by John Wesley and his brother Charles which were free of access to all the congregation. Hymns were sung at the opening and closing exercises by the whole congregation, the words thereof, in many instances, were written by the Wesleys themselves, and by that other famous old time hymnologist, Watts. The tunes to these words were adapted, as a rule, from the popular minstrel ballad music of the day, although some few fine old chorals were prepared by the reformers themselves. In all the protestant churches after the seventeenth century, with the exception of the English Episcopalian church, this custom of congregational singing was and is, followed largely; although within the last half century most protestant churches have hired quartets and choir leaders to carry on their musical worship.

350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

All of the founders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints came out of these Protestant churches and they. The need, no doubt stimulated by the Prophet Joseph, himself, to write words suitable to the new revelations and the restored Tt is significant that this revelation was given just three months after the organization of the Church and one month thus recognized by the Lord himself. What a contrast also to the worship of the Catholic church where men only are allowed to sing the formal rituals of the church service. In the year 1835, the revelation-appointment was fulfilled and a hymn book was published in Kirtland, containing the selections Purpose named. Of this book we have very little knowledge. When Brigham Young, accompanied by Heber C. Kimball, Parley P. Pratt, John Taylor and Willard Richards were sent to England, in 1840, to regulate and set in order the affairs of that newly opened mission, one of the first enterprises undertaken and that other literary genius, John Taylor, The English Saints needed a hymn book especially adapted to their worship, and President Young had been commissioned by the Prophet to undertake this work.

OUR HYMN BOOK 351

criticized severely because of the gory words and suggestion contained in some of its verses. This hymn, "Arise, my soul, arise," was set to beautiful music by Professor George Careless and has no doubt lived in the hearts of the people for the music rather than for the words. The implication in the words that belief only is sufficient for salvation is contrary to our doctrine. A second edition of our hymn book was published in Nauvoo in 1841; while simultaneously a second European edition was published in Manchester, England It is interesting to know that Benjamin C. Ellsworth superintended the first American edition, republished in 1839 from Emma Smith's collection. The following editions of the book since 1841 have been published: Liverpool, England 1842 (3rd. European Edition) Liverpool, England 1845 (4th. European Edition) Liverpool, England 1847 (5th. European Edition) Liverpool, England 1848 (6th. European Edition) Liverpool, England 1848 (7th. European Edition) Liverpool, England 1849 (8th. European Edition) Liverpool, England 1851 (9th. European Edition) Liverpool, England 1854 (10th. European Edition) Liverpool, England 1856 (11th. European Edition) Liverpool, England 1856 (12th. European Edition) Liverpool, England (13th. European, Edition) Salt Lake City, Utah 1871 (14th. Edition) Salt Lake City, Utah 1884 (15th. Edition) There have been tens of thousands of hymn books published since 1884 both here and in other parts of the world, especially in Liverpool, but the editions are not numbered since the 15th edition published by Cannon and Sons in 1884. It is estimated that at least two hundred thousand books have been published in all. The hymn book was translated into German in 1853; and published in Hyman Canaiden, Merthyr-Tydfil, in 1852; Salmer og aandelige Sange, Kjobenhavn, in 1853-1867; Recueil De Cantiques, Sereve, in 1857; Liederbuch, Zurick. In 1861: and Gesangbuch, Bern, in 1875. The first hymns recorded in history as original with our people were written by Parley P. Pratt and W. W. Phelps. At the opening service of the dedication of the Kirtland temple, March 27, 1836, the hymn, "Ere long the veil: will rend in twain," written by Parley P. Pratt and sung to the tune of "Sterling," was rendered by an excellent choir of singers led by

352 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

M. C. Davis. After the invocation, a hymn written by W. W. Phelps, "Oh, happy souls who pray," was sung to the tune of "Weymouth." A discourse was preached by the Prophet who then called upon the congregation to vote in quorums for the authorities of the Church as they all stood upon their feet; and that stirring and beautiful hymn, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation," composed by W. W. Phelps, was sung by the whole congregation. After an intermission of twenty minutes another original hymn by W. W. Phelps, "This earth was once a garden place," was sung. The second offering was a sectarian hymn by Watts and was sung to the tune of "Dalston", "How pleased and blessed was I." In the middle of this meeting the inspirational and perennially beautiful hymn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning" also composed by W. W. Phelps was sung by the choir just after the dedicatory prayer had been offered by the Prophet Joseph Smith. A little story was told by the wife of Brother Phelps concerning this hymn. She said it was composed several days before the dedication ceremonies took place, and when the Prophet happened to come into the Kirtland printing office he found Brother Phelps there; the author read the hymn to the Prophet who was so cheered and uplifted with the spirit and words that he instructed Brother Phelps to publish it on white satin for the Dedicatory Services in the temple. In the edition published by Brigham Young and associates, in Manchester; in 1840, there were 176 hymns that were retained in the 1841 edition. Since that time other eliminations have taken place and in our present editions we find only 135 hymns that were published in the 1841 edition. Some of the hymns in our hymn book of most beauty and worth have been written by our own people. Of these, we have, "O my Father," by Eliza R. Snow and, "O awake! My slumbering minstrel," also by Zion's poetess, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning," "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," "Redeemer of Israel," "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation," these four choice selections by the great hymnal writer, W. W. Phelps. One of the most beautiful hymns in the book, "Come, thou glorious day of promise," was written by the first baptized Hebrew in the Church, Alexander Neibaur. It voices the longing cry of the despoiled children of Judah everywhere. Perhaps the most perfect piece of poetry written by our people next to this hymn is that one by Parley P. Pratt, "The morning breaks, the shadows flee," which opens the book itself, yet critics have declared that John Jaques' "O, say what is truth," is the most scholarly piece of poetry in the whole collection.

OUR HYMN BOOK 353

The hymn which has symbolized the sufferings of the Saints in their mobbings and drivings, "Come, come, ye Saints," by William Clayton, was naturally not included in the earlier editions of the book; and his "Resurrection day," or "When first the glorious light of truth," has helped to make history for this people. "The seer, the seer," by President John Taylor together with those other hymns surrounding the Prophet, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," and "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," have entered into the very life-blood of this people's history. Our later poet and magnetic hymn-writer, President Charles W. Penrose, has contributed greatly to the worship and praise of this people through his beloved hymns, "O ye mountains high," "Up awake, ye defenders of Zion," and "School thy feelings, O my brother." It is impossible in the limits of this article to particularize all of the beautiful hymns and the inspiring ones which are a vital part in the people's worship. The following list contains some of the choicest sentiments and most beautiful poetry composed by our own poets found in our hymn book:

Again we meet around the board
Arise, O glorious Zion
Behold the great Redeemer die
Come all ye Saints who dwell on earth
Come all ye sons of Zion
Come listen to a prophet's voice
Come, thou glorious day
Farewell all earthly honors
Gently raise the sacred strain
Go, ye messengers of glory
High on the mountain top
How will the Saints rejoice to tell
I saw a mighty angel fly
Let Judah rejoice, etc.
Now let us rejoice, etc.
O Jesus, the giver
O Saints have you seen
Our mountain home
Praise to the man
Rest for the weary
Softly beams the sacred dawning
The nations bow, etc.
The seer, the seer, etc.
All hail the glorious day
Beautiful Zion for me
Cheer, Saints, Cheer
Come, come, ye Saints
Come, O Thou King of kings
Earth with her ten thousand flowers
For the strength, etc.
Glorious things are sung
Hail to the brightness, etc.
How great the wisdom
I'll serve the Lord, etc.
Jesus, once of humble birth
Let us pray, gladly pray
O awake! My slumbering
O my Father
O say, what is truth
Our mountain home so dear
O, ye mountains high
Redeemer of Israel
School thy feelings
The morning breaks, etc.
There is now a feast, etc.
The Spirit of God, etc.
Think not when you gather

354 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

The time is far spent
Thou dost not weep, etc.
This earth was once, etc.
Up, awake, etc.
Though deep'ning trials
Weep, weep not, etc.

No more sublime poetry can be found than Henry W. Naisbitt's "Rest, rest on the hillside." While Emmeline B. Wells' "Our mountain home so dear," and Emily Hill Woodmansee's, "Uphold the right," are favorites everywhere. Among the hymns not written by our own people, yet beloved by them, beautiful in conception and polished in execution are, "God moves in a mysterious way," "How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord," "Lord, we come before Thee, now," "Happy the man whose hopes rely on Israel's God, He made the sky," "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire," "Should you feel inclined to censure." "Lord, dismiss us with thy blessings," "On the mountain top appearing," "Praise ye the Lord, my heart shall join," "Truth reflects upon our senses," and that universal dismissal song, "Praise God from whom all blessings flow." The following list comprises the most popular and beautiful hymns of non-"Mormon" composition sung by our people:

All hail the glorious day
Joy to the world
Arise, my soul, arise
Let Zion in her beauty rise, etc.
Be it my only wisdom
Lord dismiss us, etc.
Come, dearest Lord
Lord, we come before Thee
Come, we that love the Lord
'Mid scenes of confusion, etc.
Do what is right, etc.
On the mountain top appearing
From Greenland's icy mountains
Praise ye the Lord, my heart, etc.
Great God attend, etc.
Hark! Listen to the trumpeters
Prayer is the soul's, etc.
Hark! Ten thousand, etc.
Sweet is the work, my God
How beauteous are their feet
The Lord my pasture, etc.
How pleased and blessed was I
'Twas on that dark, etc.
I know that my Redeemer lives

Second only in interest and importance to the authors of the hymns and the hymns themselves, are the composers who have prepared music for these songs of praise. All will admit the charm and excellence of many of the old German and English hymn tunes which have been retained for nearly a century amongst us. Some of the composers are unknown. Chief among our local composers stands George Careless, as Zion's greatest hymn composer and musician. What music can surpass the beauty and inspirational quality of some of his choicest productions? Where can more exquisite music be found or set to more exquisite words than, "Rest upon the hillside, rest?"

OUR HYMN BOOK 355

and his music to "Come, thou glorious day of promise," is equally beautiful. The ringing challenge of, "Hark, listen to the trumpeters," has never been excelled in martial strains. This hymn was composed by him on shipboard and written out on the top of a barrel. Other hymns, beautiful and beloved, composed by him are "Again we meet," "Thou dost not weep," "Author of faith," "The morning breaks," "He died! The great Redeemer died," "Though deepening trials," "Behold. The great Redeemer died," "Hark, listen to the trumpeters," "We'll sing all hail, etc.," "Prayer is the soul's, etc.," "How beauteous are their feet," "Arise, my soul, arise," "Softly beams the sacred dawning," "Glorious things of thee, etc.," and "Arise, O glorious Zion." Next in beauty of composition would come Evan Stephens. Some of his anthems, words and music composed by himself are beautiful in execution and inspirational to the last degree. Among the very choicest of his hymns are these:

Awake, ye Saints, etc.
Ye simple souls, etc.
All hail the glorious day
What was witnessed, etc.
Lo, the mighty God
Our mountain home
Praise ye the Lord, my heart.
Come, dearest Lord etc.

We have a number of other composers who have written one, two, or several glorious hymn tunes—Orson Pratt—one contribution, "Lord, dismiss us with thy blessings," is familiar to every congregation of Saints. A. C. Smyth, who was the choir leader in Sanpete for a number of years, contributes three fine compositions, "O awake! My slumbering minstrel," "Come, thou glorious day of promise," and "Zion stands with hills surrounded." Tullidge has two splendid hymn tunes: "An angel from on high," and "Come, all ye sons of Zion." McIntyre appears but once; his contribution "How great the wisdom and the love," proclaims him a musician of great excellence. Fones has two popular and beautiful hymn tunes to his credit, "I'll praise my Maker while I've breath," and "My God, the spring of all my joys." Edwards also appears once in setting music to "Let Zion in her beauty rise," which is well worthy of the beautiful words. Thomas Griggs gives us "Gently raise the sacred strain," and "Earth with her ten thousand flowers." The veteran organist, Joseph Daynes, of the Tabernacle Choir, contributes a number of beautiful hymns: "Great God attend," "Lord thou wilt hear me," "We're not ashamed to own our Lord," "Hark, ten thousand, thousand voices." Parry gives us one, but that one is beautiful, indeed: "Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad morning." One of the Tabernacle Choir leaders, Ebenezer Beesley, composed a number of splendid chorals: "School thy feelings, O my brother," "The happy day has rolled on," "Great is the Lord; 'tis good to praise," and "High on the mountain top." In the later editions of the hymn book itself appear a number of modern popular hymns; some of them pretty good poetry and music, and some of them merely the "jazz" music of hymnology. An interesting story concerning Moody and Sankey hymns is related by Lucy Gates: She was to sing in the great Metropolitan church. William J. Bryan gave his initial talk on "Peace" and lacking any appropriate music, she asked the officiating Episcopal minister, clad in his priestly vestments, if he had a copy of Moody and Sankey hymns, thinking she would sing one of those popular and light sacred songs. The minister threw up his hands when she made her request and replied, "I hope to God not, my dear young lady, such music would be a desecration in this sacred edifice." The young lady was very much disconcerted, but asked for Handel, Hayden, or Mozart, and quickly chose a classic for her part of the program. Some of the modern worthy music and hymns which are included in our book are "Rock of ages. Cleft for me," "Nearer my God, to Thee," "Onward. Christian soldiers," and "I need Thee every hour." "Sweet hour of prayer," is always beautiful. Every Latter-day Saints should be proud of the wide extent, enthralling charm, literary excellence, superb musicianship and inspiring character of both words and music which inheres in our original hymns and their accompanying music. No better are found in any church or any collection of hymns. Most of our writers are Americans. Most of the composers are English. All of them are masters of their art. Our hymn book is a treasure far beyond the capacity of most people to understand fully and to appreciate perfectly. We may love it, even if we are not keyed up to a full sense of its literary and musical values. It is our own, most of it, and we rejoice in that rich contribution to the life and worship of our people. The Lord inspired words, music; collection, and of outside hymns, choice; and side by side with our scriptures it occupies an honored place in our pulpits and around the altar fires of our homes.

An Indian Story
Lucy Guyman Bloomfield

It was not in a far country that the things in this story took place but right here in our western neighbor state. You can believe it or not, but if any of you doubt just come to New Mexico and ask Grandma Neski if what I am going to tell you is not a fact. No one really knows where the beginning really is but it is the generally believed opinion that it started way back when grandpa Toelchone was just a young man and got shot through the shoulder by a soldier who thought he was just an "Injun" and made a good practice target. Grandpa Toelchone long ago reached a ripe old age and slumbers peacefully in the crevice of the rock near his old home notwithstanding the tons of rock and brush they piled on top of him, for that is the old-fashioned and easy way the Indians bury their dead. The story is about little Chis Chily Yazzie whose father and mother were killed in such a mysterious manner when he was but twelve years old. Grandpa Toelchone was his great-grandfather and died when Chis Chily was a baby. Chis Chily is now a lad of fourteen. No particular need to describe him. Of course, you all make a picture of brown skin and straight, black hair, but you must add to the picture of the boy, for he is really handsome like his father, Holstein Yoelchin, and his hair instead of being straight has broken an Indian rule and is curly, hence his name, Chis Chily which means curly hair. This story is really more about Chis Chily's father and mother than of the lad himself but who can say what he will add to it now that he has such wealth at his command? Grandma Neski, who is the lad's grandmother has often told around the hogan camp fire of how, when she was a girl, she distinctly remembers of a white man whom they called Red Shirt, on account of the red flannel shirt he wore, coming to their hogan and asking for something to eat and wanting to buy food to take with him on a journey. Of course, he couldn't speak Navajo but she has told of the gestures of hunger he made and how he did not give them the money they wanted for the corn and meat they sold him but let them search his pockets and none could be found, instead, he gave her father some chunks of yellow metal, heavy like a rock which her father kept tied up in an old red

358 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

handkerchief for years and finally just before his death he had swapped it to a white man for two real silver dollars. About three years before the mysterious death of Yoelchin and his pretty wife there came a prospector to the Chesco mountains to look for a fairy gold mine which was lost. He had a permit from the superintendent to try for it and it seems there was more to the story than just a fairy story. It seemed this had something back of it, for just before Chis Chily's father and mother were killed a prospector came lugging a bag of the real stuff into Yoelchin's camp one night. He was exhausted and starving. One of the school boys who was at the camp that evening talked to the prospector who, after eating some Indian bread and drinking some coffee, related to him a strange story of the night before how he was at an old tumble down cabin far up in a canyon in the mountains. A storm threatened and he tried to build himself a shelter with the falling timbers of the ruined cabin. On prying one of them up he saw a piece of rotting buckskin and curiosity led him to pull at it. He found a veritable pot of gold: an old rusty ten-pound lard pail covered over with a piece of buckskin. The storm broke soon but the prospector paid no heed, collecting all of the precious nuggets he could. The next morning he dug out some more and under an old hearth stone he found more gold. As near as has been ascertained the cabin was old Red Shirt's who was found dead by an alkali water hole way out on the desert in 1874, shot through by nobody knows who. The school boy says the prospector was dead tired and after putting his bag of gold under his head with his coat on top for a pillow was soon sound asleep. Grandma Neski was at the hogan that night and says she saw some of the gold nuggets with her own eyes for after the man was asleep they carefully untied the end of the sack and took some out and looked for themselves. She says she then went to her own hogan, some distance away, and the school boy went to his home. It was three days after this that Holstein Jonez, Yoelchine's brother, found the pair in their hogan, dead. Yoelchin and his pretty wife were lying side by side in the hogan: the woman shot in the back twice and the top of the poor fellow's head blown off. They were lying with some robes covered over them and in the man's hand was a gun. Outside by the door two fine ponies had been sent to the happy hunting ground so that the departed would not have to walk but would have good horses on which to make the journey. Authorities are divided in opinions, part claiming it was

AN INDIAN STORY 359

done by some foul murderer, others that Yoelchin did it himself. Little Chis Chily says his father came home soon after his grandma and the school boy left, and that the prospector awoke and felt for his bag of gold and it was gone. He says the prospector was angry and accused Chily's mother of knowing where and how it had disappeared. Yoelchin asked her but she would not answer a word. Chis Chily says he turned everything in the hogan upside down searching for it, and finally in his rage grabbed the Indian's gun from the peg where it was hanging and was never seen afterwards. The next morning his mother sent him together with his little brother and sister to stay with his grandmother, saying she was afraid. When next he saw his father and mother some white people were burying them in a hole near his home. Facts are stranger than fiction: In a San Francisco newspaper there was a notice put in by an aged pair to the effect that they had lost their grandson, a man of about thirty years. Their hearts were broken, it stated, because although he was a man grown now, yet he was their joy and comfort. They had reared him from babyhood, his father and mother having died when he was very small. Then followed a description of the man saying that the last they had heard from him he was going prospecting in an Indian country. This paper in due time found its way to the counter of a Navajo post-trader's store where it was picked up and read by the Indian boy, Chily, who informed the trader that the description just fitted the prospector he had seen at Yoelchin's cabin that night, and had never told anyone about. You will wonder at his silence but it is the way of an Indian. Shortly after this the trader made a trip to San Francisco to buy turquoise for his Indian customers and took the Indian boy along for company. While there the Indian boy wanted to find the prospector's old grandfather and grandmother and still had the "lost" notice torn from the paper in his pocket. Just for a lark they looked the old folks up. The lad's description of the prospector excited the old folks very much. They begged to return with the trader and hunt for their "little boy." As they seemed to have plenty of means the trader decided to grant their wish. So in due time they arrived on the reservation staying with the trader at his store. They hired the Indian boy with his team and spring wagon to help them; and each day the grandfather and Indian lad would go "huntin'." Finally they found the poor prospector in the

360 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

entrance of a cave. But for the Indian's keen sense of hearing they would have passed by. A faint moan reached his ears. The boy was frightened and said maybe a "chinde" (devil) was after them, but the old man knew better and climbed down from his pony to investigate. The sound grew more distinct as they neared a certain spot on the mountain side which was thickly grown over with oak brush, once spruce trees. At last they crowded around the trunk of a large pine tree and entered a dark hole from which the sound came. They followed this for some distance when, from above, a beam of light shone in a large fissure down through the rock-roof. There, on a rude cot of boughs and blankets, they found him, the old man's darling son. No one knows how many days since he had taken sick but it was plain to see he had only a short time to spend in mortality. He recognized his grandfather and tried to speak to him but the effort was too much, and very soon he drew his last breath in the arms of the grandfather. On a rock near the bed, evidently used for a sort of table, was a dirty sheet of paper weighted down by a pebble. It bore a message from the dead. It informed whoever might find him in time to come that he was sorry for the wrongs he had done. He asked a blessing on the gold he had found hoping that it would bring joy instead of sorrow as it had brought to him. He informed the world that he was the murderer of Hastein Yoelchin and his pretty wife because the woman had stolen his gold, and he had watched, and when he saw her burying it near the hogan he shot her and then killed her husband to protect himself from being reported. He added: "I then used my knowledge gained in my three years' experience as a prospector among the Indians, to cover up my tracks of sin and succeeded pretty well, I believe." He said he had known no peace since the deed had been committed, and the gold was no comfort to him in his dying hour. He went on to tell of a dear grandfather and grandmother who lived in far away San Francisco who, he hoped, would never know of his crime for he loved them still and wished they might have some of the gold he had discovered. He told how to follow the cave back a ways where it forked and to take the left fork which would lead to where he had been mining. The heart-broken grandfather found a fortune already mined and in flour sacks at the head of the bed. The message from the dead went on to say that if the dying wish of a sinner might be granted it would be that half the gold he had found might go to a

AN INDIAN STORY 361

little curly-haired Indian lad whose father and mother he had slain and the other half to the mother of his own son. He ended by saying: "God forgive me both my sins, I know not which is the greater: The lives I took from the world or the one I brought into it without the saving grace of the altar, although we were married Indian fashion. God knows I loved her. You will find her at the 'hogan' of her grandfather Dagel Chee." There they found her next day with a tiny black-headed baby cuddled on her arm. When the wee one opened his eyes they were not the invariable black of the race but a dark blue. With the help of the trader they buried the "poor, rich man" next day in a lonely little valley far from the homes of white men. Steps were taken to secure and divide the gold, and it was found to be ample for two fortunes. The grandparents often visited the home of Dagel Chee and begged the beautiful dark young mother to go with them, promising her all the pretty beads and clothes she wanted and pretty things for her baby. She asked them to wait a year but they begged her to make the time much shorter, and finally she promised if they would wait till she could have a big "Yabachi," dance for the benefit of the baby she would go with them. Sitting around a "hogan" camp fire one evening, the old man was amusing a gathered crowd by tales of his youth, using the Indian boy as interpreter. He finally told them he feared the Indians would hate him for one act of his younger days. He said he was a soldier. That they were on a long practice march across country, at one time, and as near as he could remember crossed this section of country. He related how he had been full of pranks and had shot at an Indian, meaning only to scare him, but his aim was not quite true and instead of just missing he had hit, driving a hole through the Indian's shoulder. He was scared to death and ran for his company who had gone on ahead, as fast as he could, leaving the poor Navajo to live or die as the case might prove: He said he hoped the fellow did not die as he did not mean to hit him. While the tale went on, the eyes of Grandma Neski had grown brighter and bigger and her breath was coming in gasps. As the old man finished she told how her father Toelchone had oft repeated the story of how a soldier shot him through the shoulder and then ran like a coward. The old soldier was very sorry for the wrong done in his youth and asked what he might do to make the wrong right.

362 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Grandma Neski informed him that if he really wanted to do something to make the wrong right that he might take her grandson, Chis Chily back to the big city and give him an education so he would be smart like the white people. This the old soldier was only too glad to do. There was yet more to happen to this unlucky family. They decided that while the young mother was having her "Yabachi" dance, they would take steps to secure the mine for the lads to whom it rightfully belonged, so they took the matter up with the government and filed claims for this Chis Chily and the wee baby boy whom they named LaGrande after his father. The gold that was already mined and also the "lost and found" gold of Old Red Shirt was sent to the mint and real money deposited in the bank, half for Chis Chily and half for LaGrande, his grandfather as guardian. Strange rumors were afoot from hogan to hogan of a terrible sickness among the white people in the nearby towns. A sickness that took many of the white people to the happy hunting grounds, but the Indians were not afraid it was only a white people's disease. They would have a big religious service in order to scare the "chinde" (devil) away from them. There were a few natives at the corn fields who were not well, so they held the service there, and it was attended by most every one from afar and near, for all desired to be freed from the power of the devil-sickness as they named it. Well this devil-sickness was what the white people ought to have called it but instead they named it "Flu." It was spread far and wide by the Indian service. In a little over a week there were more dead and dying than could be cared for. The suffering was terrible, more so on account of a foot of snowfall. Whole families were wiped out. A chronicle of all the "Flu tragedies" in Navajo land at this time would more than fill a book. The post-trader and his wife and child were near death's door for days. The old grandfather and grandmother of the prospector cared for them with love and prayers. As soon as the old people could leave they drove to "Dagel Chee's" camp with quaking hearts. Their worst fears were realized for they were told the young mother had passed away. They found the old Indian grandfather doing his best to nurture the little baby boy on goat's milk. He was almost exhausted. He explained by gestures that the baby would not eat out of a spoon good, and no sleep for eight days, showing this on his fingers. The white grandparents grieved for the loss of the baby's

AN INDIAN STORY 363

mother but they could but rejoice that now they could have the wee one for their own. In due time, when everything was arranged they departed for far away San Francisco with Chis Chily, the little baby and a nursing bottle. Shortly after the return of this strange family to San Francisco they were visited by two of our L. D. S. Missionaries who unfolded to their wondering minds the story of how the true gospel was restored in its fulness and the story of the Book of Mormon and the Lamanites. Chis Chily had already picked up a good bit of English, for he was very apt, and it so chanced that one of the missionaries could talk Navajo. The gospel and the story of his people seemed to be just what the heart of the Indian boy was hungering for. He expressed an ardent wish to learn to preach like the missionaries, and then return to his people and tell them the wonderful story. He is now in school, and with the help of the Lord we hope to see him become a savior of his people. The baby boy, Dagel, will be reared and educated in the right environment, and they both have means to accomplish what they set their hearts on doing.

Trust in God.
Abby K. Robinson

Be not discouraged with the trials of today,
For God's help you may have, if to Him you will pray;
Though your lot may seem hard, your path may seem drear,
Just remember, dear sisters, God's angels are near.
As mothers in Israel, as daughters of light,
Be true to your trust, stand up for all right;
Opposition surrounds you, the evil one's near;
Be firm, patient, true; you have nothing to fear.
The gospel of Jesus brings joy to us all,
There's no greater blessing, there's no greater call,
So awake, dear sisters, help others to live;
Your joy will be great, if love and service you gave.

Notes from the Field
Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary Relief Society

Maricopa Stake
During the month of December, 1921, the Relief Society president of the Chandler ward and four of her officers (both counselors, organist and chorister) were visited by the stork. We are pleased to print a picture of these happy mothers, together with their new babies. In an effort to increase the attendance in Maricopa stake, a contest was conducted during the last three months of 1921, The

CHANDLER WARD OFFICERS AND TEACHERS

wards attaining the best average attendance were entertained by the losing wards. In one division the Second ward women were the winners and a royal party was tendered them by the First ward women who were the losers. In another division the Third ward women won a delicious six course chicken dinner from the defeated Fourth ward Relief Society. On February 4, Sister A. MacDonald, an active Relief Society worker, died as a result of an accident. She was born May 12, 1841, in Scotland, and with her father and mother joined the Church and emigrated to Utah in 1862, undergoing all of the

NOTES FROM THE FIELD 365

hardships incident to those early times. She, with her husband, Alexander F. MacDonald, settled in St. George, where they assisted in the building of the temple. She later moved to Arizona where she has held many positions of trust in the Relief Society, being first counselor when the organization was first effected in Mesa. At a recent conference held in Maricopa stake, the feature of the conference was a comprehensive and detailed report of the General Relief Society conference, by President Mamie Clark. An innovation was an Indian song by one of the old Papago Indian women, representing the Papago ward. During the noon recess a May festival was held and Mrs. Clark was crowned the Queen of the May. One hundred fifty were present at the morning session and one hundred nineteen at the afternoon meeting.

Liberty Stake
A testimonial was given in November, in honor of former president Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter, and her counselors, Mrs. Ellen H. Woolley and Mrs. Annie Vetterli. There were in attendance representatives of the General Board, members of other Salt Lake City stakes, and several brethren. Appropriate speeches were given and books of sentiments were presented to the retiring presidency. The new presidency are, Mrs. Myrtle Ballard Shurtliff, president; Mrs. Leona Holbrook and Mrs. Annie M. Sheets, counselors. Mrs. Mary A. Hyde White and Lucretia M. Cooley, former secretary and treasurer respectively, were retained. An interesting report of what is known as the "Home Bound" work was made by Liberty stake for the year 1921. By "Home Bound" work they mean visiting or holding meetings at the homes of the aged or indisposed. Some of these visits are made to the Salt Lake County Infirmary. They report 988 hours spent in this special activity. Among other things they distributed flowers amounting to $22.10; oranges, $2.50; apples, $1.50; one hundred thirty-five glasses of jelly, fifty dozen cookies, and sixteen pounds of candy.

St. Joseph Stake
On January 7, the St. Joseph stake Relief Society Board was reorganized. Mrs. Josephine C. Kimball and her associates were honorably released and the following officers sustained: President, Mrs. Ethel D. Payne, counselors, Mrs. Mary Jacobson and

366 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Mrs. Nettie K. Phillips; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Ellis C. Hoopes; musical director, Mrs. Lola M. Shumway. The General Board appreciates very much the splendid work and able leadership of Mrs. Josephine C. Kimball, who has been tireless in her efforts to raise the standards of Relief Society work in her particular field. Mrs. Kimball was one of the first stake presidents to organize and carry forward a systematic arrangement for ward conferences, which has been most successful and helpful. She has instituted other types of activity equally as helpful.

South Davis Stake
On March 26, 1922, at the regular quarterly conference of the South Davis stake, the Relief Society was reorganized. President Elizabeth G. Ford, with her faithful officers and entire board were honorably released. A Relief Society session was held in the evening which was devoted to a review of the splendid work done by Mrs. Ford and her co-workers, with tributes of love and respect for their splendid service. For many years Mrs. Ford has worked devotedly for the Relief Society and the records of the organization chronicle the name of no worker more faithful and zealous. Her labors have been appreciated not only by the General Board but by all Relief Society workers in the South Davis stake. The new officers selected for the South Davis stake are: Mrs. Emma P. Walton, president; Mrs. Clara S. Rose and Mrs. Effie P. Eldredge, counselors; Mrs. Evelyn E. Rich, secretary.

Melbourne, Victorian Conference
Sister Edith Willsea, who is a convert to the Church and who, until recently, has served as president of the Mission Relief Society of the Melbourne, Victorian conference, has just arrived in Salt Lake City. She paid a visit to the Relief Society offices which was much appreciated. While the Relief Society is laboring under difficulties in this Australian conference, she reports that the work is progressing favorably. They are few in numbers and scattered over a great territory. In the past, meetings have been held only once a month, but they are now being held every Tuesday evening at eight o'clock, at the Mission House. Among other things these sisters are working hard to obtain funds to pay for a chapel which the mission is planning to build in the near future. One night the Relief Society held "Novelty Night," and on another occasion they held a festivity

NOTES FROM THE FIELD 367

RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS OF MELBOURNE, VICTORIAN CONFERENCE

known as "Balloon Night." From each of these affairs about £12 were realized. These sisters donated sixpence or more a week to the Relief Society to buy material to make into salable articles and these were sold at bazaars. The first Relief Society meeting that was held in this conference was at the home of one of the faithful sisters when there were only four women present. Sister Willsea told of the beautiful spirit and influence which they all felt on this occasion, and she is now greatly gratified that the Relief Society has grown to an important and useful organization there.

Wayne Stake
The stake board under the special direction of the treasurer, Tirza Hanson, staged the pageant, "The vision," at Loa in the stake tabernacle. The house was filled to its capacity with appreciative spectators. One hundred fifty people took part in this pageant and the affair was very impressive and entirely successful. The pageant was given without charge, and all the wards of the stake were invited to attend. The Wayne stake

368 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Relief Society on a later date presented a drama to which there was an admission charge and eighty dollars was realized.

Southern States Mission
Mrs. Grace E. Callis reports that the Relief Society in the Southern States is making a marked improvement since holding regular meetings. The members are active in giving entertainments and socials, the proceeds of which are used to assist the branches in purchasing building sites for chapels. In one of the branches the Relief Society has organized a class in cooking. They are endeavoring to learn how to make "light bread" and other wholesome foods. To provide funds for charity purposes some of the sisters in outlying districts, have adopted the plan of saving their Sunday eggs which they sell and give the proceeds to this fund. The branch in Greenville, South Carolina, reports that by extending a helping hand to one who was very bitter towards the Church, they succeeded in making a friend of this person. This incident was a testimony to all of them and they have been very grateful for the assistance this new friend has been able to give them. By giving entertainment, oyster suppers, box parties, and by holding a bazaar, quite a sum has been added to the treasury in this branch. The Society also makes quilts to sell and collects clothing for distribution.

Western States Mission
The members of the Pueblo Branch Relief Society have presented to the branch one hundred new song books. The Sheridan Relief Society gave an entertainment in the character of a hard time "box social." Seventy-five guests were present and the auctioning of the boxes cleared the Relief Society forty-one dollars.

Canadian Mission
The Canadian mission is pleased to report that the growth has necessitated the establishment of three new Relief Society organizations. The Relief Society is growing not only in numbers but also in usefulness and efficiency.

Oneida Stake
The Relief Society in Oneida stake has been cooperating with the County Health Association. This association is composed of the various civic organizations throughout the country, and they are planning some constructive health measures. This organization reports that the health work in the schools is much more effective at present than it has been in the past. The Relief Society in this stake is attempting to apply the Social Service lessons, and the sisters are pleased with the results. They report that they are accomplishing more than they have in the past when they were merely extending temporary relief to the families under their care.

Jordan Stake
A tribute to "Aunty Hayes" was paid to her on her ninety-first birthday by the sisters of the Midvale Relief Society. She is the oldest woman in the Jordan stake and is at this advanced age still in possession of all her faculties. She is a true English housekeeper. Her little home is always neat and extremely clean; she washes, irons, mends, cooks, and it is her ambition to be a burden to no one. Her testimony and faith in the gospel is a shining light and inspiration to all her associates and her many friends.

North Sanpete Stake
The corresponding secretary of the North Sanpete Relief Society has sent us the following report: "The commendable features found in the various wards have been presented at our stake meeting for the benefit of the other wards. While visiting through the stake, officers have been very kindly received, and in many cases special entertainments have been planned for them. Some of the board members visited the Oakville ward and gave a model program. The sisters of the ward greatly appreciated the visitors and expressed themselves as being very much encouraged. Feeling the need of being united, the stake board are holding the meetings once a month at the home of the various members, after which a social is enjoyed. Special efforts have been made to interest suitable young women in maternity nursing, and we are pleased that we have one young lady now taking the course and another enrolled for the next one. We aim to have at least four stake excursions to the Manti temple each year, and in response to our calls we have had several hundred days spent in this work."

Montpelier Stake
A special teachers' convention was held by the Montpelier stake Relief Society in November which gave a new impetus to the work. Papers on duties of teachers were read and discussed and talks were given by recently returned lady missionaries. These

370 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

missionary girls gave many excellent ideas on how to present a topic in a home and some good points were made on how to learn all the needs of families in distress.

St. Johns Stake
Because of the long distances between the wards in St. Johns stake the Relief Society stake board finds it impossible to visit the organizations very often. So, in order to keep in touch with the various wards, the stake board has adopted a monthly report form which they ask each ward to fill out. A copy of this form is presented below:

RELIEF SOCIETY MONTHLY REPORT

No. Of officers and members attending meetings
No. Of officers and teachers attending Teacher Training class
No. Of meetings held
Is all the lesson work given as outlined?
If not, what lessons are omitted?
No. Of districts in ward
No. Of districts visited
Do the visiting teachers use outlines sent in magazine?

A Demonstration in Relief Society Teaching

Mrs. Brown and daughter Jane sewing.

There are the Relief Society teachers, Jane. I felt sure they would come today.

Jane: Will they care if I stay?

Mrs. Brown: They will be glad. (A knock). Go to the door, dear. (Jane opens door and greets teachers; Mrs. B. Also rises to greet them warmly.)

Mrs. Brown: Be seated.

Mrs. Preston: We are the Relief Society teachers, Sister Brown.

Mrs. B: Yes, we are so glad to have you come.

Mrs. Preston: It is nice to have your daughter here, too. Are you well?

Mrs. B: All quite well, thank you.

Mrs. Nelson: You are looking better, Mrs. Brown.

Mrs. B: I don't think I am worse.

Mrs. P: I don't see how you can be when you look at your nice children. We are to talk to the people about prayer, today. Brother Morgan, in his address at Union Meeting, called it "keeping up correspondence with God." That thought was very impressive with me. If we have some one away from us whom we love very dearly, we send some message every day; and we look for messages frequently from the absent one. We have been sent down from our kind Father's home, to work in his kingdom for our own advancement. Should we not report to him every day—twice every day. In order that we may have a right to expect his messages to come to us?

Mrs. Nelson: Too many are like the boy Brother Morgan spoke about, whose father said when he got a letter, "I wonder what he wants now. He never writes except when he wants something."

Mrs. P: Another thing Brother Morgan said was that Satan has lost the power to pray. Do you think it possible to lose this power?

Mrs. Brown: I know it is easy to lose the desire. If we grow neglectful we lose the desire very soon. The speaker also emphasized the responsibility of women as keepers of the home. He claimed that as keeper of the home we should see that there is prayer in the home. So much depends upon the home spirit, and upon having things ready when prayer time comes.

Mrs. Brown: I think that of all the things my mother did for me, I am most grateful for the spirit of prayer she instilled so early in my heart. As a little child, I used to pray about every trouble that came to me. When my arithmetic lesson was hard, I would ask the Lord to help me to understand it, and then it would all clear up.

Mrs. Nelson: It has been my lot all through life to have need to call upon the Lord for daily bread. He has continually opened the way for me and my children in answer to our prayers.

Mrs. Preston: I think the privilege is so wonderful. That we may approach God—that he will listen—that he loves to hear us—it is all so great an expression of his love. We are now having a series of lessons on this subject in Relief Society meetings. Will you not meet with us next Tuesday, Sister Brown?

372 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Mrs. Brown: I shall try to if I am well enough. Thank you.

Mrs. Preston: Shall we go, Sister Nelson?

Mrs. Nelson: Yes. I am so glad Miss Brown is here today. I love to tell the young girls and boys how much the gospel means to me, and to help them to understand the lessons of prayer and faith.

Jane: I am glad to be at home, Sister Nelson.

Mrs. Nelson: Goodbye, Mrs. Brown.

All: Goodbye.

Jane: How nice those teachers are, mother. And I am so glad to hear you tell about school. I so often have to ask the Lord to help me in my school work.

Mrs. Brown: It is as Sister Preston says, a splendid privilege. Let us try always to have our home a prayerful one. We must not lose the desire to pray.

Jane: Mother, I didn't know the Relief Society teachers did their work in such a splendid way. These women have given us something to think about for days to come. We are the keepers of the home—we must keep up our correspondence with God.

Mrs. Brown: Let us walk in the garden, Jane, and enjoy the sunshine while we lift our hearts to the kind heavenly Father for his goodness.

PROGRAM OF AUXILIARY GROUP CONVENTIONS FOR 1922
To be held in connection with the regular quarterly conferences

GROUP CONVENTION DATES, 1922

July 29-30: Woodruff, Yellowstone, Cassia, St. Johns.
Aug. 5-6: Curlew, Lost River, Raft River, South Sanpete, Summit, Wayne, Snowflake, Alberta.
Aug. 9-10: (Lethbridge)
Aug. 12-13: Emery, Juab, Millard, Oneida, Taylor.
Aug. 19-20: Bannock, Blackfoot, Big Horn, Blaine, Malad, Shelley, South Sevier, Teton.
Aug. 26-27: Bear Lake, Bingham, Burley, Garfield, Idaho, Pocatello, Portneuf, San Juan.
Sept. 2-3: Bear River, Boise, Panguitch, Rigby, Twin Falls, Uintah.
Sept. 16-17: Kanab, Montpelier, Morgan, North Sanpete, Star Valley, St. George, Roosevelt, San Luis.
Sept. 19-20: Young.
Sept. 23-24: Carbon, Deseret, Franklin, Fremont, Parowan, Sevier, Union, Duchesne.
After October Conference: Beaver, North Sevier, Tintic, Benson, Hyrum, Moapa, Maricopa, St. Joseph, Juarez, Tooele, Wasatch.

ONE DAY CONVENTIONS
Alpine
Liberty
Ogden
Box Elder
Logan
Pioneer
Cache
Mount Ogden
Salt Lake
Cottonwood
Nebo
South Davis
Ensign
North Davis
Utah
Granite
North Weber
Weber
Jordan

TIME OF MEETINGS

SATURDAY
10 a. M.: Regular Quarterly Conference Session.
11 a. M.: Auxiliary meetings as follows:
Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers.
Sunday School—local superintendents, secretaries, librarians, and other Sunday School workers not engaged in other auxiliaries.
Joint M. I. A. Stake Boards.
Primary Association Stake Board.
Note: All visitors not included in the above may attend the Relief Society or Sunday School Depts.
2 p. M.: Regular Quarterly Conference Session, devoted to the subject of "home building."
3:30 p. M.: Auxiliary meetings as follows:
Relief Society Stake Board.
Sunday School Stake Board.
Joint M. I. A. Stake and Ward Officers.
Primary Association Stake and Ward Officers.
Note: All persons not included in the above may attend the M. I. A. Or Primary Departments.
Evening: Stake Social.

SUNDAY
9 a.m.: Auxiliary meetings as follows:
Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers
Y. M. M. I. A. Stake and Ward Officers
Y. L. M. I. A. Stake and Ward Officers.
Primary Association Stake and Ward Officers,
Note: All visitors may attend any one of the foregoing except the Relief Society. The above named organizations will meet and dismiss separately.
10:30 a. M.: Regular Quarterly Conference Session devoted to
2 p. M.: Sunday School work.
7 p. M.: Regular Quarterly Conference Session.
Meeting if desired by local authorities. (Representatives will be pleased to attend if train schedules do not interfere.)

PROGRAM OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS

SATURDAY, 11 a. M.
Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers
Report by the Stake President.
Discuss the best feature of your year's work. By ward presidents.
The Application of the Principles of the Gospel to Daily Life.
a. The Gospel brings an ideal order of living in this world.
b. True relation of man to God, and of men to fellow men.
c. The value of love as a saving influence.
d. What it means "to be born of God."
e. Evidences man gives that he is living in conformity with the gospel.

SATURDAY, 3:30 P. M.
Relief Society Stake Board Meeting
Questionnaire: (To be filled out by General Board member during session.)
Messages from the General Relief Society Conference, by General Board Member.
Miscellaneous.

SUNDAY, 9 A. M.
Stake and Ward Officers
Relief Society Welfare Work.
a. What it embraces.
b. Some of the results,
Questionnaire: (To be filled out by General Board member during session.)
Miscellaneous.

My Sabbath
M. Sadie Spanton

It was a Sabbath morning, and through the open window came the warm breath of early Spring, and with it the chirp and twitter of Spring's messengers, the blackbirds. But no answering gladness flooded my heart, for I was far from home and loved ones, and was unutterably lonesome. The suppressed bustle of the day only seemed to shut me more entirely out of the lives of those about me, yet to prevent my finding comfort in the shelter of Fairyland—that world within one's heart where dreams come true, where there are no disappointment, no misunderstandings, and where happiness reigns supreme. And so I declared my intention of spending the day in the hills. Stares from my companions answered my announcement, then followed pitying smiles. It was evident that a day alone in the great silence of the forest held no charms for them. They were wondering at my queer ideas, and while they pitied my loneliness, not knowing that to a sensitive, affectionate disposition there is no loneliness so oppressing as that found in an unsympathizing crowd. But I was not to be daunted; so, with a rug, pen and paper, some reading material, and lunch, I set off to find rest and happiness after a trying week. A short walk from my boarding place brought me to a place, sheltered from the cold of the north wind, and out of sight or sound of the village. Here I built a fire to drive away the dampness of the recent snow; spread my rug near it, and prepared to enjoy a perfect day. Then, as I looked about me, the holy peace and beauty of the day filled my soul with joy. Here was God's great, wonderful world all unmarred by human hands. Here was perfect art—harmony complete. On every side rose low hills, one above the other, and all clothed in green—green of a dozen different tones—the fresh green of the grass that pushed its slender blades through the red-brown soil; the dull, gray-green of the evergreen shrub; the coppery green of the cedars; and the dark, shadowy green of the pinion pines. Even the tiny bee which buzzed noisily about my fire wore a coat of soft, glistening green. And over them all the sunbeams danced, turning them into a golden study of lights and darks. Beyond, yet almost within a stone's throw, so it seemed, arose the snow-covered peaks of the Dixie mountains, with the great, dark pines outlined in strange contrast to their white background, as if

376 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

guarding the unknown treasures buried beneath their feet. And smiling sweetly upon everything the great dome of heaven, cloudless and blue, gave promise of sunny days to come. Suddenly a great throb of gratitude took possession of me. The troubles, worries and disappointments of the past few weeks seemed less stinging. That many people misunderstood me, misjudged my motives, and even thwarted my most cherished hopes, were of small consequence beside the knowledge that somewhere a mother and brothers and sisters were awaiting my homecoming with open arms; that somewhere a dear little teacher, who understood, was thinking of "her girl," and what dozens of others had absolute faith and confidence in me. What were human disappointments when within my soul lay a testimony of the great and everlasting gospel? Ah! I was thankful, gloriously thankful, for the privilege of life; for the ability to see, to feel and to love. I had indeed entered Fairyland. Here I could live over happy hours with loved ones, now far away, and plan still happier hours for the time when we should again be together. Here I could be the woman I would become—more worthy of the many blessings He has given me. Faults were recognized and cast out. Feeling of bitterness were erased and new courage came to fill their place. And then came thoughts of the future, of the time when, God willing, I shall come into that wonderful inheritance which is every good woman's most sacred dream—the realm of worthy wifehood and motherhood. And I knew that He who watched and listened did not think my dreams unworthy or my time ill-spent. The sun was sinking rapidly and would soon be hidden behind the western hills. The day had been all too short. And it was hard for me to go back to the world of disillusion and work, yet I carried back to it a happier heart, a surer step, and a more conscious love for humanity than I had taken away. Later, as I dressed for Mutual, I thought of the words that had greeted my return: "How could you stay off alone all day?" And I could but wonder in my turn: "Just what does life mean to those who cannot be happy for even so short a period as one day without the presence of others, who cannot soar away from today's sordid cares and trials on the wings of fancy?" And as I asked the question of my own heart the answer came: "We cannot all be alike. God's greatest masterpiece, 'The Valley of Life,' would be incomplete without both the realist and the dreamer. He knoweth best." But as I knelt at my bedside that night I thanked the Giver of gifts for my gift of dreams.

Parting
C. W. PENROSE.. GEO. CARELESS.

Andantino.

1. Death gathers up thick clouds of gloom, And wounds the
2. The res-ur-rec-tion and the Life,'"? What hope and
3. We lose a lead-ing Mas - ter Mind, But spir - it
4. Farewell, dear Brother Brigham Young, God called thee

soul with anguish deep; Gaunt sorrow sits. Upjoy that ti-tle brings! Death's but a myth with hosts be - hind the veil, New strength and add - ed through th' e-ter - nal gate, Thy fame shall dwell. On a

on the tomb, And round the grave dense shad - ows hor - rors rife, And flees before the King of - wis-dom find, To makeour mu-tual work preev - ery tongue, And Saints thy

tear-dried eyes, And lo! There stands that cold clay; He lives apd moves bow in prayer, And fu - neral notes thou hast won, In splen - dor waits

the Ho-ly One! A - mong the blest. In grief we raise. To deck thy brow!

Teacher Training

In order that there may be a common understanding upon the part of the organizations of the Church concerning teacher-training work, the Correlation-Social advisory Committee, under whose auspices this work is carried on, issues the following outline of general instructions and suggestions:

I. Why Have Teacher Training?
A. Because it is the business of the Latter-day Saints to teach. (Doc. And Cov., 88:77-80, 118.)
B. Because it is the teacher's business to better know
1. What to teach.
2. Whom to teach.
3. How to teach.
C. Because the teacher's reward will be measured by his or her success as a teacher, (Doc. And Cov., 18:16).
D. Because the testimonies of our young people depend largely upon the efficiency of their teaching.

II. Under Whose Auspices Is the Teacher Training Work Carried Forward?
A. Administered by the Correlation-Social Advisory Committee, under the direction of the bishops and stake presidencies, all organizations of the Church being represented on such committee.
B. Supervised by the Stake Supervisor under the direction of the Stake Presidency, High Council and Stake Boards of Auxiliary Organizations.
C. Conducted by Ward Supervisor under direction of Bishopric and Heads of Ward Organizations.

III. What is the General Plan?
A. The training of the individual teacher.
B. The promoting of the work of each separate organization.
C. The promoting of the cooperative work of all organizations.

IV. What Meetings are Provided For?
A. Four meetings per month as follows (the time being left to local authorities to decide upon):
First Meeting—Normal classes (study of the text)
Second Meeting—work of organizations—separate and cooperative.

VI RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Fourth Meeting—Work of organizations, including study of lessons by department teachers.
B. The first three meetings are ward meetings; the fourth is a stake union meeting, sometimes called stake Priesthood meeting where all organizations meet at one time: with the Priesthood.

Who Shall be Enrolled in Teacher Training Classes?
In the ward unit the following organizations are engaged in Church work: Bishopric and Ward Clerk, Priesthood Quorums, Auxiliary Associations, Social Committee, Music Committee and Genealogical Society. (The Social and Music Committees are not independent organizations; they are the means through which the other organizations function in the fields of music and social work). All of the organizations above mentioned are available to the Bishop in the conduct of ward work, and, of course, they should be interested in cooperating with the Bishop in carrying out his desires with respect to their various fields of labor. Therefore teacher training classes, serving as an aid to the Bishop in the training of his teaching forces, aim to bring together all officers, teachers and class leaders in the ward. With respect to each organization, then, under the direction of the Bishop, the following may be enrolled:
A. Ward Officers. Bishopric and Ward Clerk.
B. Priesthood Quorums. High Priests. Since each ward does not have a quorum, the class leader may be the only person enrolled from this organization. Seventy. There are seven presidents to each quorum. This number would be divided, however, where a. Quorum covers more than one ward. The secretary and class leader (if any) would also be enrolled. Elders. There are three in the presidency of each quorum; also secretary and class leader in many instances. This number would be divided, however, where a quorum covers more than one ward. Priests. The Bishop is the president of this quorum. The class leader (if any) should be enrolled. Teachers and Deacons. The officers and class leaders of these quorums might also be enrolled. While the officers in most cases will be very young, their enrollment will add dignity to their calling and at the same time give them a vision of the magnitude and importance of Church work.
C. Auxiliary Organizations. All officers and teachers.

TEACHER-TRAINING 381

D. Social Committee. The Social Committee is made up of one of the Bishopric and one of the presidency or superintendency of each of the auxiliary organizations, and any other person or persons whom the ward authorities may designate.
E. Music Committee. The Music Committee is made up of one member of the Bishopric, together with the ward chorister and organist, and the choristers and organists of each of the auxiliary organizations, and any other person or persons whom the ward authorities may designate.
F. Genealogical Committee. The Ward Representative, together with two brethren and two sisters who act as aids.

VI. What is the Purpose of the Normal Work?
A. To insure a more comprehensive knowledge of the principles of the gospel.
B. To stimulate a more intelligent application of the principles of good teaching.
C. To help teachers more fully understand child nature.

VII. What constitutes the Promoting of the Work of Organizations?
A. Cooperative. This involves plans for the solution of joint problems, such as:
1. Attendance and the enrollment of the unenrolled.
Marching.
Punctuality.
Class Rooms.
Special Programs.
Ward library.
Singing, etc.
Illustration: Attendance and enrollment of the unenrolled. Primarily it is the duty of the Acting Ward Teachers to stimulate attendance at the meetings of the various organizations of the Church. The organizations themselves, however, should do all in their power to increase their enrollment and attendance. It is proposed, therefore, that the enlistment committees of all organizations, together with the ward clerk who may represent the ward teachers, constitute a committee to see that all organizations are advised of the names, ages and addresses of boys and girls and men and women who should be in attendance. In order to do this the committee must find out for each organization, (1) who are

NAMP ON 382 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

in attendance regularly, (2) who are not in attendance regularly, and (3) who should be in attendance regularly. This should be obtained in age groups for the convenience of the departments of organizations. Then the teachers of the organizations should do all in their power, by personal contact with individuals, to get them within the fold of the organizations. Then the enlistment committee of each organization should find out regularly from the teachers of the organization just what has been accomplished, and should report all findings to the committee of the whole so that proper adjustment may there be made upon the records. Cooperative work further illustrated: One class room in a ward may be used by the Relief Society, Sunday School, Y. M. M. I. A., or Y. L. M. I. A., Primary. The room may need papering, a thorough cleaning, a new rug, etc. As the situation now stands, no organization may take the responsibility of fixing the room, but would gladly do so if the other organizations interested would help. Separate. Each ward organization should devote at least one meeting a month to a consideration of its own peculiar problems by its officers and teachers or class leaders. Some organizations have been in the habit heretofore of holding special meetings for the consideration of these problems. That may be a good policy where an extra meeting is necessary, but it is deemed inadvisable to call a special meeting to do the work that may be done at a regularly appointed time, namely, the second meeting of the teacher training schedule. Each stake organization should meet once a month with its ward workers, where instruction may be given the ward workers by the stake workers. This would involve instruction in the preparation of lessons, etc., and a preview of the following month's lesson material.

Let Us Seek Eternal Life
Reinhard Maeser, of the Brigham Young University

"And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." Jn. 17:13.

God's greatest gift to man is eternal life, in which gift lies the very glory of our heavenly Father. In order, then, to receive this wonderful blessing and therein help to enlarge the glory of the Lord, it is incumbent upon us to fulfil certain conditions—live up to certain principles, which bring to us the enjoyment of this precious gift. Eternal life is more than simply endless prolongation of life somewhere, and under a somewhat indifferent sort of existence; eternal life, being the most precious of the gifts of God, must have back of it glories, principalities, powers, dominions that far outreach the ability of man to conceive. In Sec. 89:7, Doc. And Cov., we read: "Seek not for riches. But for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold he that hath eternal life is rich." Eternal Life such as is contemplated by the term, "God's greatest gift to man," is to be obtained only upon the strictest adherence to the principles of life. Or in other words, the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Lord has told us this in these words found in Sec. 14:5-7, Doc. And Cov., "Keep my commandments in all things; and, if you keep my commandments and endure to the end, you shall have eternal life, which is the greatest of all the gifts of God."

An inquiry into these commandments whereby to obtain eternal life may not be amiss. The fundamental principles of the gospel are familiar to us all. There is one law, however, which though not foremost, perhaps, yet is one of the essential things to be sacredly kept if we are to become partakers of God's greatest gift. It is the Word of Wisdom particularized in Sec. 89 of the Doc. And Cov. This Word may well be considered as God's "health law" to bring about the physical as well as the spiritual salvation of the human family. It is easily to be inferred that the Word of Wisdom is to be included among the laws to be kept to get eternal life since the Lord says we shall keep his commandments "in all things" if we wish to have eternal life. This is a wonderful law which has been given to us; wonderful in that it antedates all scientific knowledge of any dangerous results coming from the use of the things therein forbidden. It is a word of warning given by a merciful and kind Father to his

384 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

selfish and easily misguided children. A word which seems to imply that the evils which man has brought upon himself, through his indulgence of the things forbidden, may be cured by a strict following of the admonitions therein contained; for it specifically states that "all Saints who remember to keep and do these things, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel, and marrow to their bones." Some people, whose weakness has led them to the breaking of this commandment, attribute their violation to ancestral transference of propensities toward such things. This does not seem to be a plea worthy of any consideration, since the tendency to indulge in many of the forbidden things has become habitual in us through our own indulgences and lack of the exercise of the strength within us. It were a shame for us to becloud the memory of the dead by casting upon them the cause of our own weaknesses. No ancestor has entailed upon any man a necessity for his breaking any of the