Vol. IX OCTOBER, 1922 No. 10 

CONTENTS 

Page

Cyrus E. Dallin Frontispiece  
Mutual Appreciation Lula Greene Richards 503  
Dallin's Gift of Massassoit to Utah Alice Merrill Horne 505  
Interview with Mrs. Thomas Dallin Alice L. Reynolds 510  
Law Enforcement Milton Bennion 512  
"Aunt Bine" Myron E. Crandall, Jr. 513  
Woman's Privilege Ruth Savage Hilton 515  
Leisure 518  
Home Economics Jeannette A. Hyde 520  
The Last Service Annie D. Palmer 523  
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 526  
Attune Your Hearts Mrs. Ida R. Alldredge 532  
A Twisted Holiday Lila Little Hicken 533  
The General Procession James H. Anderson 538  
Alone Bertha Roberts 541  
Editorial, The Need of the Hour 542  
Guide Lessons for December 544  

PUBLICATION INFORMATION

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints  
Room 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah  
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c  
Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy  
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah  

ADVERTISEMENTS

The Utah State National Bank

The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them.

Officers  
Heber J. Grant, President  
Anthony W. Ivins, Vice-President  
Charles W. Nibley, Vice-President  
Chas. S. Burton, Vice-President  
Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier  
Alvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier  
John W. James, Asst. Cashier  

Mention Relief Society Magazine  

Guaranteed L. D. S. Garments FOR LESS MONEY

150—Light Weight Bleached Cotton Flat Weave $1.95  
401 or 104—Light weight unbleached cotton Ribbed $1.95  
511—Heavy unbleached Cotton $1.95  
911—Extra heavy unbleached Cotton $2.20  
911—Extra heavy bleached Cotton $2.25  
635—Medium weight part Wool $3.00  
845—Heavy weight all Wool $4.50  
601—Lisle Garments $2.00  
204—Mercerized Lisle $3.00  

We advocate unbleached Garments, for men such numbers as 901, 511 and 911  
Postage paid in U. S.; Canada and Mexico, 10c Additional  
Garments marked for 25c per pair  
Double back and extra sizes over size 46 10% extra  
Be sure to state size  

THE RELIABLE (MAIL ORDER DEPT.)  
1069 E. 21st South  
Salt Lake, Utah  

BURIAL CLOTHES

Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices

Call at our Burial Clothes Department  
23 Bishop's Building  
Prompt attention given all out of town orders  

TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER

Salt Lake City, Utah  
Phone Wasatch 3286  

Mention Relief Society Magazine  

Music Magnetizes the Home

The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop.

$100.00 For this Beauty  
Take 15 Months to Pay  

50,000.00 OLDER THAN THE STATE of Utah

 Mention Relief Society Magazine Mutual Appreciation By L. Lula Greene Richards If I have done you good, dear friend, In this I take delight, The kindly thanks which you extend, Are more than jewels bright. Yes, more to me than wealth or fame, Or worldly honors great; That in your prayers you breathe my name, I more appreciate. The Reliable Jeweler McConahay, the jeweler carries the latest styles in engagement and wedding rings. Consult him at 64 So. Main Street before going elsewhere. When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine Lillian Wirth Maternity Home A most desirable place for maternity cases. All comforts of home, and most conscientious work guaranteed, plus reasonable rates Call Hyland 606 for information Phone Was. 1828 1820 South 5th East Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Guaranteed L. D. S. Garments FOR LESS MONEY 150—Light Weight Bleached Cotton Flat Weave...... 401 or 104—Light weight bleached Ribbed........ 50 The Utah State 204—Mercerized Lisle 3.00 Hener J. Grant, President. We advocate unbleached garments, Chas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Additional Garments: marke or c per pa Asst. Cashier. Size. Temple Block THE RELIABLE MAIL OFF THESE LABELS ASSURE YOU — Z. C. M. I. FACTORY MADE Shoes and Overalls Are built in a factory that has been rejuvenated with modern machinery. Help the movement for Inter-mountain development. Glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them. W. Ivins, Vice-President Charles W. Nibley, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Arvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier. 911—Extra heavy bleached Cotton 2.25 2.25 601—Lisle Garments 2.00 Postage paid in U. S.; Canada and Double back and extra sizes over size 46 10% extra. Be sure to state Mutual Appreciation By L. Lula Greene Richards If I have done you good, dear friend, In this I take delight, The kindly thanks which you extend, Are more than jewels bright. Yes, more to me than wealth or fame, Or worldly honors great; That in your prayers you breathe my name, I more appreciate. To be remembered in the prayer Of one who loves the Lord, For helpful words or friendly care, I deem a rich reward. I shall remember you, likewise, Before our Father's throne, Thus aided, each may gain a prize, One might not reach alone. The bond of pure and generous love, Which brings true happiness, And lifts the heart such pangs above As selfish wants express— The standard which our Savior raised When rightly understood, Helps each to utter, "God be praised If I have done you good." THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. IX OCTOBER, 1922 No. 10 Dallin's Gift of Massasoit to Utah Alice Merrill Horne As a token of love for his native state, Cyrus E. Dallin, has recently set up, under the great high dome of the State Capitol Building a replica of his bronze sculpture of Massasoit, which stands overlooking Plymouth Rock, forever guarding the destinies of the Plymouth Colony. Who is this Massasoit? Chief of the Wampanoags—a mighty Indian nation; a sachem, whose dominion extended from Cape Cod to Narragansett Bay, at the time when the Mayflower first appeared on the horizon of the Atlantic, tacking over beautiful Massachusetts Bay to tarry and disembark in the Plymouth Harbor. The old world Pilgrims in that new world adventure, establishing the first enduring colony on New England shores, for freedom of conscience' sake, first planted their feet on what is now known as Plymouth Rock which, in the hearts of a grateful people, has come to be a sacred rock, and over it has been erected a protecting canopy of granite. And because Plymouth Rock enshrines a principle more enduring than any stone, even the principle of individual liberty, "freedom of conscience" has become the touchstone of these whole United States. Had the Mayflower taken back its passengers, had the little colony been wiped out, America might not today, be the land of liberty. Chief Massasoit it was who protected and saved the colony in its days of greatest peril. That is why a grateful people have forever linked the form and name of Massasoit with the sacred Pilgrim Rock. We marvel at the manner in which destiny prepared Massasoit and his tribe for the service they rendered. One year before the episode of the Plymouth Rock, the proud, cruel, and treacherous Wampanoags numbered thirty thousand Indians. An epidemic of fever reduced them to a tribe of but three hundred, softening them by the dreadful chastisement When the Pilgrims were in the midst of home building and house making, Massasoit, with sixty braves, all painted and dressed in battle array, suddenly appeared before the astonished newcomers, with proffers of friendship and proposals of a peace treaty for mutual protection. The treaty was made. Governor John Carver, for the colonists, and Chief Massasoit, on the part of the Wampanoags, (after smoking the "Peace Pipe"), signed the "scrap of paper" that was kept inviolate by Redman as well as Paleface for over half a century. Massasoit lived past his eightieth year. His days were full of good, gracious acts. He opened his wigwam to Roger Williams and all patriot fugitives, who suffered banishment into New England's wilds by the hand of bigotry which, for a brief period, swayed the governing powers of the New England Colony. Massasoit, historians tell us, was just, humane, honest, "grave of countenance, spare of speech, a portly man in his best days; a man who sought to imbue his tribesmen with ideals of peace." And Dallin has portrayed him as such in this statue of Massasoit. It was entirely fitting that the good people of Massachusetts, knowing well Dallin's sympathy for the Indian, commissioned him to undertake this enduring bronze statue, to overlook Plymouth Rock, amid native shrubs, under the blue dome of the New England sky. A spot that henceforth, Utahns will hunt out whenever they turn their faces toward New England shores. For they will desire to draw a comparison between the Massasoit, in his native surroundings, and the Massasoit modeled in plaster. Massasoit is a noble rendition of the noble type of Indian, a masterpiece, conceived in sincerity, combining grace of design, and virility of style with abundant amplitude in handling. The figure is in heroic proportions, standing fully nine feet, three inches in height. There is no point of view from which beauty of line and of grace, and true Indian character is not revealed. The views from the south and east sides are perhaps the most wonderful. It has been said that no good sculpture will be harmed by rolling down hill, meaning that obtruding parts will be broken off, leaving the simple lines. The views from the points I have mentioned, show the whole figure knit together in one simple mass that makes a perfect sculptural rendition. Massasoit stands firmly, but oh, so lightly on his feet. There is repose, which means that he might be on the point of running or starting off. The whole sculpture breathes a fresh impulse; reveals a persuasive and convincing figure. Massasoit makes a mute appeal to a sympathetic understanding of the Indian. A native man—yes, Dallin has expressed it. Let us get acquainted with our Massasoit. Visit him often! He will teach us, will purify our ideals of art, will enrich our impulses, and help us to understand our sculptor, Dallin. HOW WE CAME BY THE GIFT To the Commercial Club of Salt Lake City, we are indebted for this gift, for they suggested to His Excellency Governor Mabey, that Dallin be asked this boon for the state; Dallin acquiesced, shipped from Boston the statue, and with his wife and two of his three sons, set out by auto to place the sculpture in the Capitol and make the presentation on the last day of July, 1922. This so-called replica of the bronze Massasoit, is, in truth, the original Massasoit. For this very sculpture is the clay model that emerged from Dallin's hands out of the shaft of clay set up in his studio. From this modeled figure the mould was made, and in that mould the bronze was poured to make the bronze cast which marks Plymouth Rock. This gift is not of enduring material. One month's rigor of winter weather would crumble it back into clay but, sheltered under the great dome of the capitol, it will last indefinitely. The gift means more to Utah, if we will but study it, than anything that has come to us for art's sake. In my opinion, it is the better rendition, (if not so enduring) of the grand old sachem. There is a certain elusive, indefinable quality in clay-modeled sculpture that is nearly always lost in the transition from the plastic medium to the more enduring, harder material of either bronze or marble. It is so in this clay Massasoit which has a softness, a subtle charm, a personality, a sweetness of presence, which impels one to contemplate with a worshipful heart. MASSASOIT'S UNVEILING A concourse of art lovers came together at four o'clock July 31, to witness the unveiling. In the simple presentation by Mr. Dallin he said, "I am going to get close to you today. In my heart are many mixed emotions, but foremost in my soul is my Happiness in presenting this gift to my home state. I am glad that you thought well enough of my work to ask for it, and I want you to accept this gift as a token of my love for my native state of Utah, and my love, too, for the poor Indian. I want it to express my gratitude, my admiration, my passion for him, the friend of my youthful days in and around Springville. He it was who taught me the first art I knew and which I have tried to express. For what success I have won, the Indian deserves great credit. I wish I had done better, that I might the better show my gratitude for the life-long inspiration he has been to me. "The Governor has spoken of my home coming. It is well. These everlasting hills, in the shadow of which I was born. And reared, touch me far more than I can express. Whenever I come into their presence, I am constrained to weep. These mountains are linked with the story of the Indian. "In setting up this man of peace, who saved the Plymouth Colony, I have a hope, a wish revived from my memory, that I might model the old Chief Washakie, of the Shoshones, who, too, was a man of peace; and he wielded as potent and saving an influence over the first Pioneers, 'a thousand miles from nowhere,' as ever did Massasoit over the Pilgrims. May I hope that, at some future time, I shall be privileged to set up among these hills the Washakie I enshrine in the heart of my boyhood memories, to guard the destiny of this people." As Cyrus E. Dallin turned to unveil Massasoit, those present were firm in the resolution that Washakie, too, should some day emerge from a shaft of clay under this Utah sculptor's hands, being moved by the events which marked the unveiling, to feel the need of the Pioneer peace patron, Washakie, to guard this people. For might not we, thereby, reap a realization of a greater, grander destiny? There was not a dry eye, when the Stars and Stripes fell away revealing this, the Indian Massasoit. Those present had slipped back with Dallin, under the old spell of Indian romance and Indian lore, both of which have so strangely and so persistently swayed the life work of Cyrus E. Dallin. THE TEMPLE OF TREES Antony Anderson Would'st find a balm more sweet than gift of tears, Thou who art bruised by stress of sordid things, The dull routine, the thwarted hope that stings, The cold ingratitude that numbs and sears? Go forth and comfort thee where now the year's Cathedral aisles are dim. The thrush here sings A golden psalm of joy; the bluebell swings Its frail and fluted censers. Cast thy fears And loose the bonds that anchor thee to Care; For here the light so gently falls, it seems A gracious benediction after prayer— By mystic murmurs from her hidden streams, By violets strewn where paths are trodden bare, Thou knowest the wood will not deny thy dreams! —From Laguna Life. Interview with Mrs. Thomas Dallin Mother of the Sculptor Alice L. Reynolds In the summer of 1915, Cyrus E. Dallin, the well known American sculptor, came to Utah to visit with his mother, whose eightieth birthday anniversary occurred during the year. Shortly after her birthday I paid her a visit. She sat knitting lace, without glasses, and when I suggested that that was a very unusual thing for a woman of her age to do, she replied that she had received her second sight. I immediately put some questions to her concerning her very gifted son, and from her obtained the following account of his boyhood activities. I shall give the substance of the interview, and, whenever possible, the language: She said, "We were poor, and had to work very hard, and scheme in every possible fashion, in order to be able to manage at all. The children had no toys, so I used to take the mountain clay, wet it, and mould it into little chariots and horses and little men and women. After moulding these things I would place them in the oven to dry, and when dry the children would use them for play-things. "One day my little boy came running in from play, very much excited, because a man was to lecture at the meeting house that very evening about the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and his brother, the patriarch, Hyrum Smith. He asked for ten cents to pay his admission to the lecture. It grieved me very much to tell him that I had no money to give him. He thought for a moment, then he said: 'Mr is clearing out his ditches; perhaps he will pay me ten cents for helping him with the job. Towards sundown he came home with the much coveted price of the ticket. "The next day when his brother returned from school for the noon meal, Cyrus was not with him. 'Where is Cyrus?' I inquired, to which he replied, 'Playing in the clay pile." In a few moments Cyrus came with two busts on a little board. The moment I saw them I knew who they were, for I had lived in Nauvoo and was acquainted with the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum. " 'See, Mama,' he said, 'these are the men that the man talked about in the meeting last night.' I took the little models from him, placed them in the oven to dry, and afterwards put them up on the shelf. "Later in the afternoon Father Dibble, the lecturer, came to my home; as soon as he entered the house he caught sight of the busts, and at once asked, 'Who did them?' I replied, 'My little boy Cyrus,' and he responded, 'He has a future before him as a sculptor.' Some time after, the child modeled a bust of Fanny Sutherland, a playmate and friend to whom he was devoted." He learned his letters from the family cookstove. It was a Charter Oak, as I recall Mrs. Dallin's statement. "He was eager for a book to read from but we had no books. Every cent he could obtain through work or gift he put aside with the thought of purchasing a book. Finally, when he believed he had enough money to buy the book he walked to Provo to obtain it. He was greatly disappointed when he learned that the price of the book exceeded his savings. However, the man in the book store, realizing how far the little fellow had trudged in order to obtain the book, let him have it for the amount he was able to pay. On his way home he peeped into it, just to catch a glimpse of the mysterious inky characters embedded in its white pages, for to him a book was a thing almost sacred." When he first saw the Indian he was attracted to him because of the brilliance of color to be seen in his blankets, his beads, and his feathers. One day some big Indian Chiefs in full regalia entered the village. They were magnificent in their buckskin suits, highly colored blankets, and war bonnets of feathers. They entered a tent in which a peace treaty was to be signed with the white man. The boy who was destined to portray them in bronze and marble was a little ragged urchin at that time. He threw himself down between the rows of corn, and as the tent door flapped back and forth witnessed the ceremony which made a deep impression on his mind. Afterwards, when a student in Paris, he made a cast of what he saw that day. So successful was the piece of work that it was placed in the Salon exhibit. "He was passionately fond of nature even as a child. He loved to pick the wild flowers, and nothing gave him greater delight than to gather bunches of flowers and bring them to me," said the mother. "Things he noticed in his walks, that he thought pretty, he would pick up and bring home. He was fond of the mountains; he watched their various changes, and frequently called, "O, Mother, come and look at the mountains." At this point in our conversation Mrs. Dallin left the room, soon returning with a photograph of herself and the sculptor. There they stood—the dear old mother snow crowned with the flight of eighty summers; at her side her son. They were looking intently and with admiration at the mountains in the east—someone had caught them in the kodak. Law Enforcement Milton Bennion The stability of any government is in large measure dependent upon the respect of the citizens for its constitution and laws. Widespread disregard for laws regularly enacted under constitutional authority indicates an approaching state of anarchy. American citizens who cultivate such disregard for any law ought to be mindful of the scripture which says, "Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap." This applies to communities with as much force as it applies to individuals. For individuals to take it upon themselves to decide what laws they will obey and what laws they will defy is equivalent to having no laws, which is anarchy. If the rich man may defy the prohibition law to satisfy his appetite for a dangerous luxury, may not the poor man have equal right to defy any other law that stands in the way of his enjoying the comforts of life? Some of the laws protecting property rights may be just as odious to the latter as is prohibition or the liquor traffic to the former. The popular notion that some laws interfere with individual freedom is a relic of eighteenth century philosophy. In the light of current philosophy and the socialized conscience of today this confusion of license with liberty is thoroughly antiquated. No man has a right to indulge in pleasures that in any way jeopardize the welfare of society. The prohibition, anti-gambling, and anti-tobacco laws have been enacted primarily as a safeguard to youth. Can anyone deny that these laws, strictly enforced and backed by the unwavering support of all citizens, would be a benefit to immature and imperfectly formed characters? Yet many citizens thoughtlessly remark that these laws are not popular and cannot be enforced. What are they doing to help enforce them? Generally, nothing. Is a good American one who is swayed to and fro by whatever happens to be popular? Or is he one who judges questions on their merits and stands firmly behind principles? The Eighteenth Amendment to the federal constitution represents the judgment of the American people when they were thinking seriously of the welfare of America and of the world, and when they were willing to restrain selfish desires in the public interest. Shall we allow an "after-the-war" slump of patriotism to throw us into a state of lawlessness, or to lead us to think of reviving a system that has caused wholesale misery in families and moral degeneracy in youth? It is for each adult citizen to think on these things; but let him think soberly and let his judgment be a real moral judgment. Are these laws right in principle? Will general obedience to them result in good? If these questions can be answered in the affirmative, then it is the duty of every citizen, with faith and courage, to do his best to see that the laws are enforced. Were there no statutory law forbidding or restraining gambling, the use of intoxicants and tobacco, it would still be well worth-while for every youth to obey the moral law upon which the statutory law is founded. Only in this way can he acquire freedom, the highest character, and greatest usefulness. Moral freedom is the result of obedience to moral law. It can be attained in no other way. The license to self-destruction which opponents of the law crave, is really the road to bondage. "Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." Next month, citizens will have a chance to vote for county sheriff and county attorney. See that the men elected are strictly honest, that they are vigorous supporters of the laws, and that they have the courage to enforce them. If they conform to these requirements, why should anyone be concerned as to whether they are Democrats or Republicans? Legislators are also to be elected. See that they are citizens of strong character and clear vision. Let there be no backward step in legislation. "Aunt Bine" Myron E. Crandall, Jr. Close by the village highway I have a dear old friend; The graces of the Master In her life seem to blend. She works among her flowers The happy live-long day; From out her cozy bowers I hear her proudly say: "Oh, come into my garden Where dainty blossoms blow, And see the radiant beauty Of tulips in a row: The wind-flower and the violet, The pansies in the grass, Some blue and brown and scarlet, All greet you as you pass: The tiger lilies blending In sunshine and in storm: The lily white betokens Purity and peace; It lifts our thought to heaven Where cares and sorrows cease: The blood red rose in splendor Bespeaks of fondest love, Impassioned deep yet tender, As true as stars above: The dainty little daisies So full of modest grace, Call forth our warmest praises; They have their hallowed place." And so, each day you'll find her Working 'mong her flowers; They seem to strangely bind her Through all the waking hours. She knows their wondrous language; Their faces she can read. No modulating accents, Their looks bespeak their need; When she is gone they'll miss her, This friend so good and true; They'll fade away and wither; Oh, how we'll miss her, too. She works among the flowers That they might gladden all, And in God's heavenly garden She'll work when he doth call: She's trained God's precious children In righteousness to grow; She's tended long and willing His gardens here below. Note: "Aunt Bine" Alleman, of the Second ward of Springville, was for many years president of the Relief Society. In her earlier days she was president of the Primary. Her whole life, from the trying pioneer times down in Dixie, to the present, has been spent in the service of the Church, working for the salvation of God's children. Her husband died a number of years ago. Her only daughter, Mrs. Ida H. Taylor, is in far off New Zealand with her husband, George H. Taylor, who is president of the mission. Mrs. Taylor is also serving in this mission in the capacity of president of the Relief Societies there. "Aunt Bine's" home is situated on the main highway in the center of town. From the time of the budding of the little crocuses in the early spring until the tiny snowdrops come in the winter, her place is one mass of bloom and beauty. It attracts the attention of the tourist, and is the admiration of every passer-by. Among the fragrant blossoms and gorgeous splendor she finds the solace and comfort of her declining years. The poem was read on her seventy-sixth birthday at a party given in her honor by the Relief Society. Her full name is Sabina, but the whole town calls her "Aunt Bine." Woman's Privilege Ruth Savage Hilton "Have you called on the new-comers at the Jackson Place?" cheerily called Mrs. Jones, as she peered over the back fence of her neighbor's yard. "Yes," returned Mrs. Smith, rather abruptly. For years Mrs. Smith had prided herself on being the first to call on strangers. "I hear the lady is awfully nice," the cheery voice called again, "O, I don't know, just different. She has really seen things; been to school; and traveled all over the earth; never lived in a small town before." "Strange they would come here." "The lady likes the freedom of the country," Mrs. Smith returned knowingly. "Anyhow, she and I are going to be good friends, I trow." Mrs. Smith started for the house, but stopped on the back porch to add significantly, "I've already got an invitation to an afternoon luncheon at her home. That's a fine old place they have bought you know." This bit of gossip floated in to Emily through the open window of her study. "Just the thing I've been hoping for," she exclaimed, and sprang to her feet with all the glad enthusiasm of her twenty years. Throwing down her pencil and scattering papers all over the table, she ran from the house, round the corner, and halted at neighbor Smith's door. Emily smiled whimsically as she waited, "What'll she think?" was her mental question. As a rule Emily did not ask favors of Mrs. Smith, but that time was different from any other. So, after an hour of pleasant chatter, she came home beaming over the promise to be taken by Mrs. Smith to meet the new comer at the Jackson place. "You see, it's this way: For years I've longed to travel abroad," confided Emily to Mrs. Smith, as they walked toward the Jackson place. "I'm sure I could write real stories—maybe books, if I only knew something beside this little town." "O, I see why you want to talk to Mrs. Thornton," Mrs. Smith gave her knowing smile and nodded. "You're right," returned the girl. However, she began to doubt her reasoning when they were comfortably seated and the woman of world-experience was playing the role of beautifully simple country hostess. The big old house was full of the joy of common living. Noisy boys were heard in the hall. The twin girls with a host of playmates dotted the lawn. The mother bent tenderly over a dainty bassinet of white and blue, to smooth the frill of an infant son. "You see, I want a theme or plot for a story," put in Emily when the conversation had drifted to strange scenes and customs. "You write, do you?" observed Mrs. Thornton. "Yes, some—well, it's this way; I've been longing for years to travel so I would have something to write about. So, when I heard of your advantages I wondered if you wouldn't give me a pointer." "A what?" asked Mrs. Thornton puzzled. "O, I mean just some experience full of human interest." "Yes, I see. Well, you know folks are usually interested in life as it is, in people themselves." "Of course, so I've been thinking you might have had some wonderful experience out in the big world, that would give me a theme." Mrs. Thornton began rather slowly, "You want some experience of my own?" "Yes," Emily nodded, "something unusual which has helped to make you the lady that you are." "Perhaps," said Mrs. Thornton, "this is about the finest I have known. It has surely helped to make me what I am. I am sure that among all the things I have known it stands well out in the foreground. But it's rather old-fashioned." Caressingly she reached for the infant in the bassinet of white and blue. Her eyes were full of tenderness. "Yes, old-fashioned, as old as mother Eve. You see, I was possessed with emotions of the average girl of twenty-three. Hence joy was mine when I learned what true love is; knew the glowing thrills of a honeymoon; and then felt the pulse of a new life which would shortly add its tiny strength to the race. Joy that millions have known. But it was vague and uncertain. Not a thought of the revelation which was soon to burst upon my soul, leaving an indelible imprint. "It came as a flash, during the calm, dark hours of a summer night. All nature seemed at rest, broken only by the fits of physical torture which was my portion. Torn by anguish until my whole soul cried out—what a price to pay for life—And then—I lived years in those next few moments. Somehow it seemed, I knew that an immortal spirit, a child of God, was ready to be clothed in mortal clay; ready to take a tabernacle, which if rightly used would exalt it. Surely the veil between us was very thin. So close I was, it seemed that one could almost feel the clasping union of mortal and immortal. "Then—the wail of a new-born child—I listened with awed rapture. Truly eternity had touched, nay embraced, mortality. A bundle of glory was mine as I pressed the new life to my bosom. Having been so low, that I was almost given a glimpse into eternity; and then, returning to the world of normal folks bringing a real, live human soul to guide, to love, to care for. "Later on, as tiny feet have multiplied, and daily tasks have vexed, that flash of light comes back to bring me courage. Surely the sweetest, noblest task of all life's tasks is mine—to be the mother of the souls of men." The late afternoon was fast fading into twilight. Mrs. Thornton's guests reluctantly departed. At home, however, Emily forgot to write a story, but ran into the kitchen, where a trim little woman was busy. "Mother," she cried, as she threw her arms about her and kissed the sweet, tired face, "Mother, have I ever told you how much I appreciate the life you gave me." A new and shining light came suddenly into the mother's eyes. She looked caressingly into the lustrous eyes of the woman before her, and slowly asked, "Have I ever told you what a privilege was mine to give that life to the world." TRUE CHARITY "I gave a beggar from my little store Of well-earned gold. He spent the shining ore And came again, and yet again, still cold And hungry, as before. "I gave a thought, and through that thought of mine He found himself, the man, supreme, divine! Fed, clothed and crowned with blessings manifold. And now he begs no more." Leisure Someone has attempted recently to make a study of the daily activities of the average individual and to determine the relative number of hours spent in dull routine in comparison with the number spent in enjoyable living. It is, of course, impossible to chart every activity and arbitrarily label it as boring or fascinating. What is play to one is arduous work to another. To a certain type of woman a party may be a "hard day of pleasure." The study involves the whole problem of individual differences, and therefore not many definite conclusions can be drawn. It is likewise difficult to determine whether the same activities, such as eating, conversing, or riding on street cars, are on all occasions equally pleasurable. But the person making the study concluded, after careful observation and introspection, that the greater part of the waking day, in the cases of most individuals, is spent in dull and tiresome performances. The average individual spends somewhere near eight hours a day at definite work—and in most cases, with a few exceptions such as creative artists, the work is of necessity, of a routinary and uninspiring nature. Eight hours in an office— typewriting, reading and dictating letters, filing, or selling merchandise—is, as a rule, fatiguing labor. Eight hours, and usually more, spent in a home washing dishes, cleaning vegetables, dusting rooms, or making bread, often savors of drudgery. At this point it may be suggested that the time occupied by purely automatic tasks may be saved from actual waste by consciously applying the mind in some other field. Poems may be learned, lessons may be planned, or a letter may be thought out, while the hands are performing familiar details. Bibbs, in Booth Tarkington's The Turmoil, while operating a machine in his father's factory, rejoiced in the fact that, although engaged in lowly labor, he could preserve his mental freedom. But allowing eight hours for work, and a similar period for sleep, there still remains another eight hours which may be classified as leisure. It is true that perhaps two or three hours of this time are consumed in dressing, going to and from work, and other details of living. But, as a rule, in every individual's daily life, there are several hours of time at his disposal; time that he may devote to his personal pursuits. The reward of diversion and rest at the end of the day makes the machine-like processes of the working period tolerable. It is these hours of recreation, of pleasurable living, that makes the daily routine and toil endurable. This is a natural and perfectly proper attitude. The body is fatigued and a change of activity is, physiologically, necessary. The nerves and muscles, that have been at work earning a livelihood, or maintaining a home, demand a rest. The mind and spirit demand a reprieve from irksome and deadening routine, and seek a new and more satisfying expression. Leisure, then, should be spent so as to give the body the rest it needs, and should at the same time be pleasurable; that is, it should give the whole being the sense of "living." To a person whose work requires physical exertion, the needed rest might be an evening spent in reading or in attending a theater. If a person has spent several hours in an office, some physical activity, such as an outdoor game, some household tasks, or a long walk, may in reality be a "rest." The recreation should be of such a nature that the powers employed and worn out during the day may be actually given an opportunity to be recreated. The selection of pastimes for the leisure hours should be studied, not only with the view of resting the body, but also with the purpose of determining what will be pleasurable. It must be remembered, too, that one's taste for pleasures can be cultivated, and that pleasure, in the sense here used, should not be confused with mere gaiety or frivolity. Pleasure, to one, may be the thrill of doing a piece of creative work; to another it may be the joy of writing a cheery letter to a troubled friend. It may be the mental vigor that a well written book may inspire. It may be the peaceful satisfaction that accompanies an unselfish act. It may be the calm that attends a victor who has conquered his unruly spirit. It is not difficult to distinguish between ephemeral gaieties and the lasting pleasures of life; nor is it, to those who have experienced both, difficult to measure their relative worth. The real problem of leisure, of full and pleasurable living, is that of proper cultivation. A taste for reading can be acquired only by establishing the habit. The Scriptures offer no inspiration to those who never read the pages of holy writ. A symphony by Mozart is not appreciated, nor does it touch the soul of one accustomed to "popular" music. A walk on the hills has no appeal to a preoccupied "flapper." Because such tastes can be cultivated, there is perhaps no better index to a person's character, his tendencies, and his potentialities, than the manner in which he makes use of his leisure. The excessive moving picture "fan," the street corner loafer, the nightly "jazz" crowds, and the eternal front porch idlers, all reveal their mental levels. They are expressing their idea of "living." Home Economics By Jeannette A. Hyde Ripe Cucumber Pickles 12 large ripe cucumbers. 1 qt. Small onions. 1 bunch dill. ½ cup mixed spices. 1 horse radish root. Vinegar. Peel, cut cucumbers in halves lengthwise, scrape pulp and seeds with silver spoon, cut dice-sized pieces. Peel onions, sprinkle with salt, let stand. Put cucumbers in salt water 5 hours, 1 cup salt to 8 cups water. To every gallon of water allow 1 tbsp. Mustard. Place in jars alternate layers of cucumbers, onions, dill, spices, and horse radish. Put in equal parts of water and vinegar. Cover and let stand. Dill Pickled Beans 1 pk. Wax or green beans. 4 qts. Water. 1 cup salt. 2 large stalks dill. 4½ oz. Black pepper corns. 6 bay leaves. 6 grape or cherry leaves. 1 cup vinegar. Pour boiled beans in salt water, 1 tsp. Salt to 1 qt. Boiling water. Drain and pack in jars. Add pepper corns, repeat until all ingredients have been used. Summer Dill Pickles 100 pickles. 6 stalks dill. 1 oz. Black pepper corns. 1 cup vinegar. Grape leaves. 4 gal. Water. 1 cup salt. Soak pickles 12 hours in cold water. Drain and dry. Put 2 layers pickles and 3 or 4 blossom ends of dill, 1 tsp. White or grape leaves. To 4 qts. Water, use 1 cup salt. Boil and cool. Pour over pickles to cover. Weight and cover. Let stand 1 week. Then add 1 cup vinegar. Rinse off scum every day from cloth in warm weather. Twice in cold. Put in cool and dry place. Boiled Beets 1 qt. Cold boiled beets, sliced. 1 tsp. Salt. 1 tsp. Caraway seed. ½ tsp. Pepper. 1 pt. Vinegar. Mix and put ingredients on beets. Cucumber Appetizer Peel large firm cucumber. Cut into thick slices. Scoop out center with cutter, leaving only rind. Put each piece on thick slice of tomato. Fill center with cold chopped fish, vegetables or parsley. French Fruit Dressing 1-3 cup salad oil. 1½ tbsp. Lemon juice. ½ tbsp. Salt. ½ tbsp. Melted currant jelly or honey. Few grains paprika. First combine the ingredients, then beat well and serve with any fruit salad. Broiled Fish with Sauce 1½ lbs. Fish. 4 hard cooked whites of eggs, chop whites. 4 hard cooked yolks of eggs. 1 tbsp. Capers or pickled nasturtium seeds. 1 tbsp. Pickles, finely chopped. 1 tbsp. Onion, finely chopped. 1 tsp. Mustard. ½ cup mayonnaise dressing. 1 tbsp. Catsup. 1 tbsp. Powdered sugar. 1 tbsp. Vinegar. 1 tsp. Chopped parsley. 1 cup strained fish liquid. Mix with mayonnaise dressing. Repeat until all are used. Cover top with cherry leaves Decorate with chopped Mash egg yolks with mustard and oil. Add all but chopped ingredients, which should be put in last. Season to taste. The following recipe was furnished by Mrs. Doris Jenkins, Oakley, Idaho. Mrs. Jenkins vouches for the perfection of the corn if put up this way: 9 cups of corn. 1 cup of sugar. ½ cup salt. Cut corn from cob, and salt and sugar, place in jars and boil 30 minutes. Seal air tight. BOOK NOTICE Columbus, Westward Ho! By Alice Merrill Horne, which has been published recently, has attracted considerable attention among local literary people. The author, in her play, has humanized Columbus. The skeleton of the daring explorer has been taken from the dead pages of history and has been transformed to a living, vital, and appealing figure. The reader is made to understand and sympathize with the human Columbus, and to experience with him his burning ambitions, his undaunted hopes, his passionate love for the sea, and his unbroken faith in his great mission. The play is in two acts, with a prologue and an epilogue. The scene in the prologue, where the boy Columbus finally prevails upon his father and mother to allow him to go to sea, is particularly touching. Every mother who has had a son plead for permission to forsake his home, and answer Ambition's call, will read the lines with an understanding heart. The incidents in all of the scenes are skilfully arranged and each one culminates in a striking and dramatic climax. The career of Columbus, accurate in historical detail, is made a vivid and moving story, and his triumphs and defeats are graphically told in convincing and beautiful English. The volume offers a pleasant evening's reading, and will undoubtedly become familiar to the public through the printed page. However, a presentation of it on the stage, even with simple settings and costumes, would unquestionably be delightful and effective. The charm of the book is enhanced by several distinctive illustrations by Florence Ware, a local artist. Several prominent men of the state have discovered with pleasure that they have been included in the verses which accompany the dedication of the book—"To Boys on Discovery Bent." Published by Deseret News Press. On sale at Deseret Book Co., $1.75, cloth; $3.00, leather; postage 10c extra. The Last Service Annie D. Palmer "Get whatever is needed, and lay my wife away as nice as you can. Nothing is too good for her. Brother Taylor will let you have it on account." The sentence was spoken in hoarse whispers, "See that she is clothed right." "Yes," answered the kind Relief Society woman, "We will see that she is clothed right." The man turned sadly away. The Relief Society woman with tear-dimmed eyes, looked upon the peaceful countenance of the dead. Two little girls stole quietly in and stood beside her. Their gingham aprons were faded and torn. Their shoes were past repairing. True to the principles of real helpfulness, the woman began to size up the situation, with a view of doing the right thing in the case. She saw the bed from which the lifeless form had been lifted. It was covered with a quilt that was ragged. The home-made carpet on the floor was patched in several places with worn out overalls; and in one place with a piece of burlap. The furniture was rickety, the curtains were tattered. Poverty showed everywhere, grim and haunting. "Do you think Mrs. Senior will make the dress?" It was Mrs. Long who spoke. She had slipped into the room noiselessly only a moment before. The Relief Society worker did not answer. She was not thinking of the dress. Mrs. Long repeated the question: "Do you think Mrs. Senior will make the dress?" I saw one she made for Mrs. Lawrence—really the most beautiful thing I ever saw! The most wonderful silk, the softest shirrings and frills,—" "What did Mrs. Lawrence's dress cost?" "Oh, I don't know. One hates to think of cost in connection with the dead. When we think that it is the last thing we shall ever do for Juliet—" Mrs. Long broke down in sobs. Juliet was her only sister, nearly her own age. They had played together as children; they had almost lived together since they were grown. Their husbands were like brothers, their children like one family. "But it isn't the last thing we shall do." The visitor spoke firmly. The sobbing sister raised her head. "Well, all but the flowers, and—" "No, my dear, you are wrong. There is more to do for her now than ever. Here are her children, we must care for them. They must grow up to honor her name in the earth. There is her husband, he must be given the encouragement she used to give, must be helped to live worthy of her. Some time there will be special temple rites for both of them. You may be permitted to participate in holy ordinances for her. These are the important things. I am inclined to think that the quality of the material with which we clothe our dead is as unimportant as is that which we wear in life. Shall we not buy an inexpensive fabric from which to make her temple robe and dress? We can get shoes for the children for the difference in price." The Relief Society worker put her arm tenderly about the shoulders of Mrs. Long as the latter answered: "My sister would say 'yes.' She certainly would say, 'yes'." A week later they all sat at dinner in Mrs. Long's modest dining room, when a letter was brought in for the bereaved husband. Mechanically he read the note and passed it to his sister-in-law. It was the undertaker's bill, and included a positive request that a substantial payment be made at once, in accordance with the business policy of the house. Four months ago the man would never have passed a note like that to any woman; but the long days and tedious nights of watching by the side of his suffering wife had unnerved him. He knew that some time—that soon, he must get his bearings and again take up the burden of life; but just now he was in that hopeless lull that often follows a terrific storm. He looked helplessly at Mrs. Long while she read. "Thank the Lord for the Relief Society," the woman said as she finished reading. "I have felt that we must certainly send back to them the small bag of quarter dollars they sent instead of flowers. Now I see that you must use it to pay on this bill, and so keep good your credit until you can go back to work. Come, let us count the coins together." They counted the quarters for the first time, nearly two hundred of them, and as they did so they thought of the few withered flowers now dying on the new-made grave. The money represented other flowers that Juliet's friends would have purchased had the Relief Society woman not asked them to give quarters instead. The money was all returned later to be used in some other emergency; and the family had learned its lesson. Death is not the end. Funeral services are not the last services we can render. The tragedy of flowers and expensive funerals is being enacted over and over again. In our sympathy and love we think of this old and beautiful means of expression; and we use it sometimes for people who are in need of bread. Were it not more fitting in the case of parents, that we provide for them comfortably and care for them tenderly while they live; and that we see to it that their names are honored through our lives when they are gone? Were it not wiser when a loved companion departs, that we give more consideration to those who are to continue the struggle of life, to whom privation is often a serious handicap? Even in the hearts of the well-to-do, would not a simple, soulful service for the dead, be more satisfying than the extravagant display which sometimes marks the occasion as one of vanity? Not by the words they say, And not by the flowers they strew, Shall a place, on the Judgment Day, Be awarded me or you; Not shall we care for praise or blame From curious crowds of men; For He rewards neither pomp nor fame, Who will sit in judgment then. So bring but a single flower And place on my bier, I pray; And speak at the final hour, Salvation to those who stray; I shall not care, so my robe be white, What texture or weave it be; For the Lord I serve, if I serve Him right, Will provide what is fit for me. — The Protestant Episcopalian Church in the United States has been holding a conference at Portland, Oregon. The movement for greater recognition of women in the church, which has already resulted in a report by a joint commission favoring admission of women to the house of deputies, brought about the adoption, by the house of deputies in the general convention, of an amendment to a canon which will make it possible to license women as lay readers. Under this new rule it will be possible for women to read certain portions of the services of the church where no male clergyman is available, or they may assist clergymen. Women, however, will not be permitted to administer the sacraments of the church. If the house of bishops enacts this amendment, it will go into effect the first of next year. Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Netherlands Mission. An interesting letter has been received from Lillian D. Lillywhite, supervisor of Relief Society work of the Netherlands mission. There are at present nine well organized societies in this mission with a total membership of one hundred and sixty-four, including forty-one officers. The society with the largest membership is located at Rotterdam. A group picture of this branch is printed herewith. The women of the Relief Society in this mission all manifest a desire to care for the poor and minister to the suffering. The cost of food and other living expenses, together with the fact that there is considerable unemployment, has resulted in an unusual amount of want and distress. RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE ROTTERDAM BRANCH Mrs. Lillywhite reports that the mission is proud of the members of the organization. Nearly every member is a mother. The women are earnest, whole-hearted Relief Society workers. Their time is freely given to the Relief Society work and a great deal of good has been accomplished by them. All of the nine organizations hold their meetings weekly, and three of the meetings are devoted to sewing and making articles of clothing. Several hundred such articles were made, and distributed last year. In all branches of the work there is an earnestness and faith that will make for the growth and success of the Relief Society work. Franklin Stake. Mrs. Carrie P. Goaslind, formerly of Preston, Idaho, has moved to Salt Lake City to make her home. Mrs. Goaslind was a counselor of the Franklin Stake Relief Society Board, having served in that capacity since the organization of the Franklin stake. Prior to this time she was a member of the Oneida Stake Board. Mrs. Goaslind has been particularly interested in social service work in the Relief Society, and since her arrival in Salt Lake City she has spent considerable time serving as a volunteer visitor for the welfare department at Relief Society headquarters. Alpine Stake. The summer work of the Relief Society in Alpine stake has been largely of a social nature. Social activities have been under the direction of the Sunshine Committee. Visits have been made to the homes of the sick, the elderly, and the indifferent, where interesting programs have been carried out. Last year over one thousand such visits were made in the stake. Each of the various ward Relief Societies is planning a special afternoon affair at which the elderly people will be the guests of honor. In most cases the festivities will be a lawn party, and the various parts of the program will be designed for the entertainment of the aged members of the ward. Sewing is another phase of the Relief Society summer work. Old clothes are being remodeled and new articles are being made. These articles will be used in the fall and winter in the social service departments of the various wards. In order to increase the funds for relief work, the various districts of Alpine stake are each planning a two or three day bazaar, to be held in the fall. British Mission. Mr. Andrew T. Jacobson, Leeds conference president, Bradford, England, has reported to the Relief Society headquarters that the mission has recently organized a Relief Society in each of the six branches of the conference. He further stated that the work being done is of the usual high standard characteristic of the organizations throughout the Church. Teton Stake. The Teton stake, in making a report of its activities, explained that in spite of certain handicaps the Relief Society work is progressing and prospering. Some of the branches are in dry-farm districts, and meetings are organized for summer work. The Relief Society women respond willingly and generously to all calls made of them, and they manifest a great interest in all the activities of the Relief Society. The Teton'a ward of this stake has made the splendid record of one hundred percent Magazine subscribers. Kanab Stake. The officers of the Kanab stake Relief Society have reported that there has been a marked increase in attendance, and that there is manifest a gratifying interest and activity in Relief Society work in all of the wards. In a canvass that was made of the stake it was found that ninety percent of the stake and ward officers are observing the Word of Wisdom. Every ward in the stake paid one hundred percent stake dues and annual membership dues for the year 1922. IN MEMORIAM. In the death of Emma G. Woolley, widow, of the late Kanab stake president, Edwin B. Woolley, the Church and community lost one of its most faithful and earnest workers. Mrs. Woolley served for several years as first counselor in the Kanab Stake Relief Society and in this capacity she was a devoted and untiring worker. During her husband's long service as president of the stake, Mrs. Woolley shared, willingly, his responsibilities and assisted him in every way possible in discharging his duties. Mrs. Woolley was born at Council Bluffs, Iowa, and was the daughter of Richard and Elizabeth Price Bentley. She was the mother of ten children, seven of whom survive her. She was for several years a resident of St. George, but her later years were spent in Kanab. A beautiful funeral service was held on May 14, which was Mothers' Day, and her many friends paid tribute to her sweet character, her humble spirit, and her unselfish life of service. Star Valley Stake. Each of the eleven wards of the Star Valley stake held a ward Relief Society conference on June 11. The conference was held as a part of the regular sacrament meeting. Two stake officers visited each conference and assisted the local officers in carrying out an instructive program. Reports were made of the year's work, and the conferences did much to stimulate interest and activity in the Relief Society work. The activity for the summer, in the wards of this stake, includes lessons in making genealogical records and histories, a study of the general conference notes which appeared in the Relief Society Magazine, a singing practice of Relief Society songs, business meetings, and one or more socials. Deseret Stake. Every ward in the stake has continued to hold Relief Society meetings during the summer months, although some of the wards are scattered over a large area of country, many members having to ride three miles to meeting. In many wards the meetings have been held at the homes of members and this has been a great factor in interesting many who have been inactive in the Relief Society. Throughout the stake the programs have been uniform. The first Tuesday has been testimony meeting, the second, work and business, and the others used as each organization desired. In some wards the outlined lessons which have been unavoidably missed were taken up, others have discussed the lives of our leaders and pioneers; and still others have discussed other subjects considered vital to their immediate needs. In all the associations, however, a number of socials and entertainments have been enjoyed. The three east wards, Oak City, Leamington, and Lynndyl, being so far from the other wards, joined in the stake social on Flag Day, June 14 About 340 took part in the outing. On August 15, the other eight wards held their social and outing in the Grove at the Spillway. It was a lovely day, and over eight hundred members of the stake, counting the children, joined in the festivities. Lunch was served cafeteria style during the noon hour, and ice cream was served in the afternoon. Some very interesting games and sports were provided, and the day was pleasantly spent. The Relief Society of our stake, in cooperation with the Red Cross chapter here, has obtained the services of Miss Johnson, who is giving a course in home nursing. Fifteen classes are given each week in the stake and many mothers and daughters are availing themselves of this splendid opportunity to take up this important subject. About fifty members are enrolled in the class at Delta, and a similar number at Hinckley. North Weber Stake. The three stake Relief Societies of Weber county held a tri-stake conference last winter. It was the first meeting at which the Relief Societies of the entire county met together since the division of the old Weber stake. A visitor from the General Board was present, and an inspiring and instructive program was carried out. The teachers' work in the stake has made considerable progress. The teachers use outlines, which they study beforehand and discuss with the families upon making the visit. Inasmuch as some of the wards are located in Nevada, it is not possible to visit them frequently. A trip was made during the year to Nevada by stake president, Georgina G. Marriott. Because of economic conditions, it was found that the ward of McGill was greatly reduced in population, and the Ely branch was entirely dissolved. Each ward in the stake made a liberal contribution to the Weber Gymnasium Fund. Samoan Mission. Throughout the Samoan mission the Relief Society annual day was fittingly observed. In some of the small branches, where they are conveniently grouped, conjoint gatherings were held. At Pasega, mission headquarters, six branches of the island met, and after a very inspiring morning meeting at which a representative from each branch spoke, all adjourned to a big Samoan house and participated in a great feast. It was a picturesque gathering. All present were seated on the mat floor about an immense circular table. All sat cross-legged on the mats, and real Samoan hospitality was extended to everyone. Native dancing was one of the features of the afternoon program, On this occasion each sister paid her membership dues and a considerable sum was collected during the course of the day. At Sauniatu a splendid meeting was held in the morning, a game of cricket was played in the afternoon, and a delightful program was rendered at night. In order to attend this meeting Mrs. Thurza A. Adams, president of the Relief Society of the Samoan mission, made a trip of thirty-five miles on horseback over a rough trail. At present the Relief Society in this mission is in an excellent condition. It is well officered and a spirit of harmony and devotion is manifested in every branch. The women are all eager to serve. A missionary was recently taken ill and the women of the Relief Society, upon hearing of this, made a difficult trip of forty miles, partly in row-boats, and partly on foot, in order to nurse and care for him. The accompanying picture shows one woman who called on the elder, and the gifts they brought to him. This typifies the spirit of willing helpfulness that women of this remote country manifest at all times. Utah Stake. The welfare department of the Utah Stake Relief Society recently had the unique experience of making a report to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. Miss Florence Jepperson, vocalist, who is well known and admired throughout the state, found herself in a difficult situation in Lynn, Mass., and the Relief Society played a part in the affair. Miss Jepperson, while studying music in Boston several years ago, had formed a close friendship with Mrs. Virtue Cook Gilchrist, who was a member of the Church, At one time during their long friendship, Miss Jepperson promised Mrs. Gilchrist, who had become a widow, that in case of her death, Miss Jepperson would take her three beautiful little girls. In January of this year Miss Jepperson, upon hearing of the illness of her friend, hurried to Massachusetts, but arrived only in time to attend her friend's funeral, which had been delayed awaiting Miss Jepperson's arrival. When Miss Jepperson attempted to keep the promise made to the girls' mother, she found, much to her surprise, considerable opposition, which culminated in a hearing before Judge Lathrop of the Probate court. The opposition to giving the custody of children to Miss Jepperson was founded largely on the fact that she was a "Mormon." Reed Smoot, U. S. Senator, and Judge E. E. Corfman, of the State Supreme Court, and other influential friends, both "Mormon" and non-"Mormon," came to Miss Jepperson's aid. The report of the Utah Stake Relief Society, giving the full details of the standing of the Jepperson home in Provo, was presented at the hearing. A second hearing was ordered and Judge Prest, President of the Association for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, assisted in making the investigation. The final result was the awarding of the guardianship papers to Miss Jepperson, and she has returned to Utah with her three attractive charges. ATTUNE YOUR HEARTS Mrs. Ida R. Alldredge When the days are dark and gloomy And the shadows come and go, And the clouds are black and threatening And the winds in fury blow; We look forward to the sunshine, For it follows every rain, And if we but wait in patience We will coax it back again. When the days of weary watching O'er a little patient's cot, When the baby head is tossing And the little hands are hot, What a solace to be able To have faith in One above, And to put our trust in heaven With a knowledge of that love! When in time of bitter sorrow, When the heart is crushed and sore, And there seems no means of comfort, E'en from loved ones any more, There is still a tiny glimmer Of a brighter future day, And if we but keep on trusting We will surely find the way. For no matter what our trouble, Heavy though the cross may be, Or how dark the day and dreary, Or how little light we see, We will find in time the brightness, Faint though it may shine our way, If we'll put our trust in heaven And attune our hearts today. A Twisted Holiday Lila Little Hicken "Say, mother, will you press my skirt tonight? I would do it myself, but I simply must go to the store again. I forgot to get some napkins for our lunch," called Wanda Allen, as she came bustling into the dining-room where her mother sat sewing. "Well, if I get time, I will," mother Allen replied, looking up at her pretty dark-eyed daughter. "But I promised Lucy I would sew the fasteners on her dress tonight." "Oh, mother! What if she doesn't get her new dress tonight, she'll be all right. She can wear my pink one. I must hurry or the stores will be closed." She snatched up her hat and bounded out of the door. Mother Allen sat sewing silently for awhile, then she heard familiar footsteps in the hall, as Vern, her seventeen year old son, put his head into the doorway. "Oh, here you are, mother! Did you find my collar button that I lost," he asked, advancing into the room. "Yes," said mother Allen," and your suit is hanging out on the clothes line. Bring father's clothes in, too, when you come." "All right. Say, but we'll have to do some hustling in the morning. Got to be at the station at fifteen to six or we'll not get a seat." "Are there such a lot of people going?" mother asked pleasantly. "Goodness, yes; the whole town's going. Where are Lucy and Wanda?" "They are down town," mother Allen replied. "I guess they will come home with father at eight." "Say, will you black my shoes, mother? I've got to help father with the chores tonight and it will be so late when I get to bed I won't ever wake up. I guess you had better call me at four thirty so I'll have plenty of time," said the boy as he went into the kitchen. He soon returned bringing his suit. "Will you sew this button on mother? It's nearly off." "Did you bring father's suit?" "Oh, I forgot it. I'll bring it when I go out again." And out he went again. Still mother Allen sat sewing, humming a little ditty of her own girlhood days. At eight o'clock her reverie was broken by fourteen-year-old Lucy who ran in breathlessly, gasping: "Oh, dear, I thought I would never get home. Every one of the girls I met had to find out what I was going to wear. Have you got my dress done, yet? Say, isn't it pretty?" "Where is Wanda?" mother inquired ignoring the exultant gestures over the fluffy, blue gown. "Oh, she stopped in at Esther's to see if she should take a party dress," was the reply. "I'll go set the table for supper and Wanda can finish the supper when she comes. Wake me at four in the morning will you, mother? I want to curl my hair." Wanda went into the kitchen and soon merry snatches of song mingled with the rattle and clatter of dishes, while through her pretty head flashed visions of the excursion on the morrow. Two hours had passed away. Mother Allen had been busy with pressing the skirt, sewing buttons on breeches, and blacking shoes. The while within her head she had been turning over and evolving a plan so that the hours had slipped by like so many moments. As the old fashioned clock on the mantel was striking the hour of ten, mother Allen turned round to father Allen sitting in his accustomed place by the open grate, with his paper in his hand. "Father," mother Allen began, "I've something to tell you now we're alone." For the three young people after reminding mother of their respective times to be called, and orders as to the way the lunch was to be prepared, had gone blissfully off to their usual happy dreamless slumber, "Well, dear, what is it?" father Allen asked laying down his paper. "Are we going on the excursion in the morning, father?" "Why, I had not even thought about it, mother." "I have got all our things ready and have put up luncheon for us two. So if you will go get your suit out on the line, (I reminded Vern of it twice, and he still forgot it) we'll be all set for getting off early in the morning," mother Allen said, smiling at the dumbfounded face of her husband. "Why, aren't the children going, mother?" "Of course they are, if they get up in time. I have made enough sandwiches but I cannot remember how they wanted them put in, so I will leave it for them to put up in the morning. Vern asked me to black his shoes, but last time I did not get them to shine enough, so he can do them himself in a few minutes if he hurries in the morning. Lucy is to be called at four, Wanda at fifteen minutes after and Vern at four thirty. That would mean three trips up stairs, and you know how hard they all are to awaken. If I should waken one while calling another, they would be out of patience for not getting in their extra few minutes of sleep. They are always complaining about not getting enough sleep, so we will let them sleep just as long as they like tomorrow," mother Allen said with a cute little nod, as if to say, "How do you like that?"; "Hurrah! For you, mother," said father Allen catching mother Allen in his arms and turning around the room in an old fashioned waltz, for during mother Allen's rehearsal he had caught the spirit of adventure. "It is just what I've been wishing for the last three years. You have made yourself the servant of the children in carrying out their every wish and whim. So tomorrow, we'll turn the tables and go for a well-earned excursion!" he exclaimed as he tripped out lightly after the forgotten suit. It was just nine o'clock in the morning. The little steamer Olglitha was moored by the rustic log dock, while the merry makers from the excursion train filed up the planking to the deck. Mother and father Allen, dressed gaily in their holiday clothes, while their faces beamed with excited delight, came in their turn to the plank and onto the steamer that was to carry them far into the recesses of the beautiful mountains, where they would spend the day in the pleasures usually confined to youth and happiness. It was with a feeling of remorse that mother Allen would think of the disappointed trio at home. "But then," she commented to herself as the steamer ploughed its way through the blue, glistening lake, 'A stitch in time saves nine.'" Down in the town a different scene was taking place. The warm June sun, which an hour ago had risen over the eastern horizon, was sending out long rays of sunlight. One of the sunbeams had found its way through the east window of Vern Allen's room. As it reached the sleeper's face the intense heat at last penetrated to the nerves, and with a start Vern Allen sat up, rubbed his eyes and blinked at the sun. Then he thought of the excursion. "What the deuce!" he exclaimed, jumping out of bed and grabbing at his clothes. "Hey, there, Lucy, Wanda, do you know the sun is up?" he shouted through the hall to them. "Gee, I wonder what's the matter with father and mother?" he said as he bounded down the stairs, half dressed, followed closely by Lucy and Wanda in their kimonos and paper curls. "I wonder if the clock has stopped!" said Wanda. "Oh, what if they are sick or dead," said Lucy, with a startled look on her childish face. As they reached the foot of the stairs they bounded towards the kitchen. When they opened the door, the sight that met their eyes made them wink and blink. The clock on the mantel was just striking the hour of nine; the supper dishes they had left for mother were still in the sink and unwashed. Vern's shoes were on a chair with the mud still on them. They went with a rush to their mother's room, The usually tidy room was in a strewn condition. Then Wanda's eye caught sight of a note pinned on the dresser scarf. "Well look at this," she said, snatching it off with an angry gesture, while tears of disappointment blinded her eyes. "What does it say, anyway?" said Vern, taking it from her. "Well, just listen to this!" she exclaimed. "Father and I have gone on the excursion. Lucy wanted me to wake her at four; Wanda at fifteen after; Vern at half past. I did not know how to manage it without waking you all at the same time, and you are so angry nearly every morning if you are awakened before your time, that I thought it would be a good time to let you catch up with your much needed sleep. I did not black Vern's shoes because I can not make them shine enough to suit him. I was afraid to put up your lunch: Wanda is so particular about it. Have a good time, children, for young people can have a good time without going off on an excursion. "With love, "MOTHER." "P. S. Will you please hang up my clothes, Wanda? I did not have time. I wanted to have a good chat with Mrs. Smith before we got on the train. Will Vern please go one day without using slang? He does not need to be among the smart set today. "MOTHER." "Well, it serves us right,' said Wanda, "I am ashamed of myself. Last week when Mrs. Wray was here visiting I asked mother to hang up my clothes, because I wanted to see Lottie Smith before school." "And yesterday when mother was making my dress," said Lucy shamefaced, "she said if she had her dress made she would go, too; and I told her old people could get pleasure from staying at home." "Yes, you're always saying something smart,' Wanda said indignantly. "No, it's I who says the smart things,' Vern broke in. "Mother asked me to quit using such awful slang, and I told her all the smart set are using it now." "Well, we're all to blame!" Lucy exclaimed as she began to undo her paper curls. "Yes, and here is the time to start anew isn't it, Vern?" asked Wanda going into the kitchen where Vern was busy lighting a fire. "You bet your boo—I—I mean, yes, it is; so let's see how much we can get done today." "All right," sounded from the stairs as the two girls ran light-hearted up to their room for dust caps and aprons. At least they were "good sports" in Vern's vernacular. The old fashioned clock on the mantel in the Allen home was striking the hour of ten, as a taxi drew up at the front door. Father Allen chuckled to himself as he helped mother Allen out, and looking at the bright light glistening out through the mist and rain, said, "Looks like they're giving us a bright welcome, anyway." As they stepped onto the porch the door was thrown open and three happy faces gave them the glad cry of, "Welcome." They ushered their parents into the dining-room where a fire burned brightly in the open grate and a tempting supper was laid on the table. "We have had the grandest day!" Mother Allen exclaimed between breaths from the enraptured huggings she was receiving. "So have we," said Wanda. "For we have learned the lesson of our lives." This was followed by a glad "Hurrah, well said, Wanda," from both Vern and Lucy. The tobacco men have never tired of calling attention to "Uncle" Joe Cannon, with his big black cigar, as an example of the harmlessness of the tobacco habit, giving the impression that the aged man smoked continuously. Now comes Aaron H. Ulm, in Henry Ford's Dearborn Independent, with a sketch of Uncle Joe, in which he knocks the propaganda prop from under the tobacco men, by saying of Mr. Cannon: "While he affects long black cigars, he wears them more than he consumes them. While he always has one in his mouth—or such was the case until recently, when his physician advised him to moderate the habit— he rarely finishes one. He merely chews up the ends and throws them away." So the truth is out at last. Mr. Cannon has simply been walking around chewing the ends of cigars, then tossing them aside! And even this seemingly minimum absorption of the weed his physician has advised him to moderate!—W. H. Brown, Superintendent Press Bureau "No-Tobacco League of America." The General Procession James H. Anderson Greece and Turkey were engaged in big battles near Constantinople, at the end of August. The British government began the construction of a railway from Jerusalem to Bagdad in August. Railway disasters, shipwrecks, and mine casualties in August claimed more than 2,000 lives. The heaviest rainfall in fifty years drenched Washington, D. C., on Sept. 2, doing much damage to property. Mr. Malfield, Democratic Ku-Kux-Klan candidate for U. S. Senator in Texas, received the State nomination at the primary election there in August. Fifty thousand people were killed in a typhoon and flood at Swatow, China, on August 2, and 100,000 others were rendered homeless. Austria as a nation seemed on the verge of a definite collapse at the end of August, owing to no finances to run the government. Presbyterians in Washington, D. C., decided on August 23 to erect in the National capital a temple to cost $10,000,000. The coal miners' strike in the United States, which began April 1 and ended August 31, cost the American people in wages and business losses more than the cost of any year in the great war. A gliding machine, that is, an airplane which can rise without a motor against a 15-mile-an-hour wind, and travel for three hours has been successfully demonstrated in Germany. Confidential U. S. Government agents, returned from Germany in August, express the opinion that within ten years Germany will be better prepared for war than she was in 1914. France and Great Britain were greatly at loggerheads all during August, over Germany. A compromise suggested by Belgium finally was adopted, smoothing matters for the present. Air battles were declared by British experts, in August, to be the prospective decisive conflicts of the future, hence Great Britain is laying plans for the greatest airship fleet in the world. Michael Collins, president of the Irish Free State, was assassinated in August, and disastrous guerrilla warfare was carried on between Free State troops and rebels, generally to the advantage of the former. On August 17-22, United States government officers arrested many I. W. W. Members in Michigan and Illinois, for syndicalism, or engaging in a movement to overthrow the present form of the American government. Violence in the railway shopmen's strike, by which people were being killed, property destroyed, and mail and other transportation seriously interfered with in August, caused the government to secure injunctions in Chicago on September 1, against the whole railway department of the American Federation of Labor. Samuel Gompers and other labor leaders became violently defiant at this action. U. S. Attorney H. M. Daugherty, in behalf of the American government, on September 1, announced the government's attitude toward labor union strikers who persisted in murdering non-strikers and destroying property, as follows: "When the