Romance in the Commonplace By OW often we see the drab, the commonplace, and unattractive in people and situations, and turn away with exclamations of distaste! If we had looked a little closer, or had tried harder to understand, the impression we received might have been entirely different. There would be less jealousy, less sectionalism, less strife, if we trained our eyes to see more clearly the hidden and half hidden truths that lie all about us. The flower almost concealed by the stone may be very small on the wide expanse of desert; yet to the eye trained to see, its beauty is not lost, and the entire area of apparent waste becomes possessed with interest-romance. Very recently a young New Yorker was riding across the Wyoming desert in company with the grandson of Utah pioneers. As the seemingly endless miles unrolled, one after the other, the easterner, used to the lights, and the throbbing movement of the great city, uttered exclamations of disgust, and finally despair, at the terrific waste lying all about; and to lessen the tedium of the journey, he talked enthusiastically of the wonders of New York. He mentioned tall buildings looking down into canyon-like streets; he talked of marvelous four-track highways, bordered by beautiful flowers, of cities by the sea, and stately homes on the Hudson. His companion, however, while enjoying the accounts of the many accomplishments in the East, was seeing an entirely different vision of the surrounding landscape. He saw white wagoned caravans moving bravely against the setting sun; he saw J. Poulsen saw the tired faces of women and children, and the toiling forms of men. For him there was interest and romance everywhere, since he and his immediate progenitors had been actively engaged in building the West. What a wealth of information, what a change in point of view the other man might have obtained if he had probed a little deeper into his friend's mind! A young man recently made the remark that on a business trip to an isolated community in one of our western states, he felt a chill of sorrow as he approached the place to think that people had to live in such an isolated, uninviting part of the country; but a little later, after he had become acquainted with the people, had taken part in their social life, and had learned of their inner cheerfulness, and friendliness, he felt they were the most blessed people he had ever met. Furthermore, he saw a new beauty in the naturally rugged surroundings when he came to see with eyes seasoned to gaze upon the hills of home, Thus it is all in the point of view. Great souls live in obscure places, in small humble homes that are mere shelters against the wind and rain; and narrow, selfish souls are often found in high places, and frequently neither are known for what they really are. Life grows richer as we look into the heart of things, and see their true values, and as we learn to realize that the possibilities of happiness lie all around us in whatever circumstances we may be placed. The power to see beyond the obvious, the mere surface of things is well illustrated in the following 530 story told of the late Karl G. Maeser, one of Utah's beloved pioneer educators. Dr. Maeser was riding down the Rhine on a small boat in company with a young Elder from Utah. To his highly cultivated German mind, and responsive heart the verdant hills on either side, topped with the gray towers and walls of ancient masonry, aroused sentiments quite beyond the understanding of his companion. Finally the old professor giving expression to his feelings, exclaimed, "How beautiful!' The young man, who had failed to be impressed, was somewhat amused; and lifting his eyes toward the ivy-grown ruins of an old castle, which his friend, almost overcome with emotion, was gazing upon, he remarked that he saw nothing but a pile of rocks with some vines growing over them. Just rocks and vines?he saw nothing more; but the thousand years of rich human associations: he failed to see. For all of us there are castles on the Rhine; and if we will, we may discover the sublime beauty in the line from Wordsworth, "To me the meanest flower that blows can give Thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears." Clinics In many localities pre-school clinics are held at which mothers are advised of any physical infirmity in their children. These clinics are not conducted by the state but are sponsored by local effort. A clinic in your locality would certainly be a worthwhile project for a group of mothers. Professional men have given lessons and helped with other uplift work surely a clinic to determine the need for tonsil removal, dental work, proper diet and correction of other defects in small children would be worth the time and effort. The equipment is negligible. A clean room, scales, chairs, desk or table, pencils and cards for records will be enough. The physician or nurse may suggest other supplies.