Development of Spirituality By Lydia Wilson McKendrick Given at Liberty Stake Relief Society Union Meeting, March 22nd, 1934 "Act in the living present, Learn to labor and to wait." We are the sculptors of our own existence. The goal we set is the model by which we work, and the present is the clay with which we are working, molding our tomorrow by our deeds of today. Let us consider each life as a garden. Every heart should be a little secret garden which we should carefully clear of weeds and always keep full of sweet flowers and plants. This kind of a heart garden would be a blessing to all both individually and collectively. Yes, even a benediction. God means that we should make our lives so beautiful that they shall be the medium through which dreariness shall be transformed into loveliness. The picture of a garden runs through all the Bible. The first home of the human race was a garden. Jesus was buried in a garden. When He arose that first Easter morning, spring flowers were blooming all about His grave, filling the air with fragrance. There is a legend, too, that as He walked away from the open tomb lilies sprang up in the path on which His feet walked. It is true, at least, that wherever His feet have walked all these centuries flowers of joy, of peace, of spiritual gifts, and life itself have grown. He, through His life and spirit is changing a wilderness into a garden of roses. We should always live our best and serve our best. God expects this of us. Living at one's best is constant preparation for instant use. In one of St. Paul's letters to Timothy the old apostle gave this young man a most earnest charge. He bade him stir up the gift of God within him. Timothy was not doing his best, the glory in him was not shining out, was not warming and brightening the world as it should. There is no lack of spiritual gifts in God's children, but they are not at their best and need to be stirred up. The plainest of us carries concealed splendors within, if we knew to what extent I am sure it would inspire us to our best life and effort. The Lord has planted a spark of Divinity in each of us. He has not given us vast learning and wisdom to solve all the problems, or unfailing wisdom to direct all the wanderings of our brothers' and sisters' lives, but He has given to everyone of us the power to be spiritual, and by our spirituality through activity, to lift and enlarge and enlighten the lives we touch, what is greater joy than this? WE are heirs to great gifts of the spirit and if we so live that we are worthy, and have the capacity, we will enjoy them. Spirituality is a very much desired gift and is within the reach of us all? I believe we all have this gift to a greater or lesser extent, but it is like all other gifts, we must use it or lose it. The surest road to Spirituality is to each day keep the commandments of God a little better than we did the day before. The truest religious life is one whose devotion gives food and strength for service, the way to DEVELOPMENT OF SPIRITUALITY spiritual health lies in the paths of consecrated activity. Devotion fits us for this activity. We can not become spiritually minded or happy with the canker of jealousy lurking in our souls, for jealousy will kill all true active service and will keep us from having the great gift of an understanding heart. One of our every day prayers should be as the prayer of that great woman, Francis Willard, "Oh God, make me beautiful from within." We lose development in spirituality when we wilfully break the Sabbath day,?not all at once but little by little and step by step and since it is the responsibility of the mothers of Israel to preserve and develop faith in the home and family this developing spirituality through keeping the Sabbath day is one of the very first steps. We should see to it that we do not suffer or allow our families to suffer from Spiritual hunger through inactivity. If we train ourselves to look upward, to walk erect, to gather 533 our souls' food from branches of the tree of life, our whole being will grow towards spirituality and heavenliness. "Spirituality is a gift to be used every day, Not to be smothered and hidden away; It isn't a thing to be stored in the chest Where you gather your keepsakes and treasure your best; It isn't a joy to be sipped now and then And promptly put back in a dark place again. Tis a gift that the humblest may boast of, And one that the humblest may well make the most of. Go to and live it each hour of the day, Wear it and use it as much as you may; Don't keep it in niches and corners and grooves, You'll find that in service its beauty improves.