[Vol6 | September 1919 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: What Neighbors Say]
514  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
that  the  Httle  girl  had  gone  through  came  before  me :  the  hard- 
ships she  had  endured:  the  babies  she  had  borne  and  buried: 
the  sons  and  daughters  she  had  shared  with  others.  Then  the 
tears  came  and  your  father's  love  returned  to  me  because  it  em- 
braced us  both.  His  mother  and  I  were  one  in  sympathetic  un- 
derstanding. For  months  he  could  not  realize  that  the  old  spite 
was  gone  and  when  I  would  say  'yo^r  mother,'  a  hurt,  almost 
pleading  look  would  come  into  his  eyes — he  so  dreaded  that  I 
might  criticize  her — and  when  only  warm  words  of  appreciation 
or  admiration  came,  how  grateful  he  looked  and  how  his  love  for 
me  deepened !" 
Ardelle  was  weeping  gently,  not  tears  of  self-pity  but  tears 
of  sympathy  for  Tom's  mother:  "I  wonder  if  it  was  my  fault," 
she  cried  with  contrition,  "I  spoke  sharply  and  it  may  have 
agitated  her  so  she  slipped  and  fell." 
There  was  a  sudden  step  outside  and  Tom  blustered  in. 
"Where's  mother?"  he  demanded.  His  tones  suggested  that 
she  was  in  the  hands  of  fierce  enemies. 
Then  he  caught  sight  of  Ardelle  and  a  look  of  wonderment 
came  into  his  eyes. 
"Please,  Tom,  let  me  wait  on  her,"  she  cried.  "Let  me  do 
for  her  a  few  of  the  little  kindnesses  she  did  for  you  before  I 
took  you  from  her." 
The  rest  was  breathed  into  Tom's  shoulder,  and  a  few  min- 
utes later  the  two,  arm  in  arm,  knelt  at  the  bedside  of  the  aged 
sufferer  while  the  nurse  left  the  room. 
Tom's  mother  opened  her  eyes  and  saw  Ardelle. 
"A  person  can't  always  tell  when  the  electricity  is  turned 
off,"  she  murmured.  "It's  best  to  unscrew  the  plug." 
"Yes,  mother,"  Ardelle  exclaimed  gently,  "I  believe  you  are 
right.     I  must  try  to  remember." 
WHAT  NEIGHBORS  SAY. 
If  you  are  regular  in  attending  church,  you  are  too  pious. 
If  you  don't  attend  church,  you  are  on  the  road  to  perdition. 
If  you  send  your  family  away  for  the  summer,  it  is  more  than 
you  can  afford. 
If  you  don't,  you  are  stingy. 
If  you  happen  to  be  successful  in  business,  you  achieved  suc- 
cess by  swindling. 
If  you  don't  succeed,  you  missed  your  calling. 
If  you  give  freely  to  charity  you  do  it  for  show. 
If  you  don't,  you  are  classed  as  a  .skinflint. 
If  your  wife  does  her  own  work,  she  is  "killing  herself" 
for  the  family. 
If  she  has  servants,  she  ought  to  be  more  economical.