[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | October | Issue: 5 | Title: General Relief Society Conference | Author: Unknown]

GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The general conference of the Relief
Society was held Saturday, October 3, 1903,
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this city.
There was an excellent representation from
the several stakes of Zion. President Bath-
sheba W. Smith and all the general officers
and a majority of the board were present.
	Congregation sang, “Our God, we raise
to Thee” prayer was offered by President
Susannah P. Booth of Box Elder stake
continued by singing, “Redeemer of Is-
rael.”
	Roll call responded to by thirty-five
stakes.
	President B. W. Smith welcomed the au-
dience in a cordial manner, with a happy
greeting, it was very cheering to her to see
so many interested enough to come out on
a Saturday morning. Sister Smith felt she
would like to embrace them all, but would
be content with shaking their hands. She
said, “I love the Relief Society, we have a
great work to do if we only perform it. I
want to see the young mothers and grand-
mothers join this Society and learn from the
older ones. I love all the societies, but feel
this one to be the most important of all.
it is the oldest Society organized by the
Prophet Joseph, and what could be greater
and nobler than trying to carry out his
wishes? I think we understand our duty
fully. I trust we all try to keep the Sab-
bath day and keep the Word of Wisdom
train our children to grow up pure and vir-
tuous we want to please our Prophet and
have him meet with us. We have our
duties to perform, and one is to take the
EXPONENT, it will help us in our work, es-
pecially in our mother’s work and the
presidents must take care of this matter
and not let them go to extremes, but pre-
side over and watch this part of the work
more than anything else. It is necessary
to take good care of our families.”
	President Smith said art and science are
all right, and it is nice to take care of our
appearance, but these were not all. She
recommended reading the Book of Mor-
mon, Doctrine and Covenants and all our
Church works. I hope we will have a
good time together, that we may go home
rejoicing and try to live so that we may be
worthy of all our blessings. God bless you,
Amen.
	Counselor Sarah M. Pomeroy, Maricopa
Stake, Arizona, made an interesting report.
They could not have meetings during the
hot weather; she spoke highly of the pres-
dent, Sister Mabel A. Hakes; it was a very
rough country to travel over, but visited
all once a year the Indian sisters were very
good, had great faith, she never knew of
such faith as was manifested among the 
Laraanites they dress their children well
and fast becoming civilized; the people

[Column 2]
labor under many difficulties, but are not
discouraged.
	President Rebecca Standring, Alpine
Stake, made a most excellent report, they
have many young mothers enrolled mem-
bers, they have a granary and about four
thousand bushels of grain stored. This is
really one of the banner stakes, and Sister
Standring is a very capable president,
though only one among the many. She
closed her remarks by blessing Sister Smith
and her aids.
	President M. Isabella Horne, Salt Lake
Stake, expressed her great joy at being
present and seeing so many assembled in
conference, spoke forcibly upon storing
grain and not keeping the money the So-
ciety had for that purpose in the bank
thought filling our granaries should be our
first work after looking after the sick and
the poor. Thought there was no greater
work in Zion than the work of the Relief
Society gave a statistical and financial as
well as general report of the condition of
her stake, and closed by saying, “I want to
be among the number of the true and faith-
ful in the cause of Zion.”
	Counselor Sarah Call, Bannock Stake,
and Counselor L. M. Hart, Bear Lake
Stake, Idaho President C. C. Shepherd,
Beaver, each made excellent reports of
work accomplished, conferences held, grain
and granaries; told us how they managed
the visiting and many exceedingly interest-
ing things, although they were limited to
five minutes.
	Counselor Avilda Dixon of the Big Horn
Stake (a new tract of country, stake only
organized three years), gave us some idea
of colonization over there, described the
city of white tents before the houses were
built, they had similar experiences to our
early pioneers she realized that the Lord
had blessed them abundantly and the land
for their sake, though they had been called
from different localities and came together
there to build up a stake of Zion, yet they
had become strongly attached to each other
and union and harmony prevailed. Sister
Dixon referred to their very capable and
lovable president. Sister Lucy F. Grant
she also spoke of the interest the sisters
had taken in the young boys who had
come there away from their homes to work
on the canal and the railroad.
	Sister Mary L. Morgan represented Juab
Stake by request, President Lilyus C. Page
Nebo Stake, Sister Mary A. Standiforth
Snowflake Stake, Arizona, Counselor
Annie B. Kennington Star Valley Stake,
Wyoming, Counselor Selina Phillips St.
Joseph Stake, Arizona, gave many good
items concerning their society work, condi-
tions of the people and other matters per-
taining to material progress and spiritual
growth of Zion.
	All those who spoke expressed the hope
that Sister Bathsheba, our president, would
live long to cheer us with her good words
and bright, cheerful face.
	Sister Maggie C. Hull with her beautiful
voice sang, “Save one bright crown for
me.”
	Benediction, Counselor Sarah Jane Can-
non, Salt Lake Stake, and conference ad-
journed until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon Session: A large congregation
assembled and many representatives from a
distance and a number of brethren: Presi-
dent B. W. Smith presiding, Professor C.
Thomas, Temple choir leader, and some. 
of his best singers rendered, “Oh, say what
is truth.” Prayer was offered by Zina


[Column 1]
Young Card. Singing, “Now is the voice
that nature breathes.” President Smith
announced that Sister Lizzie Smith Cart-
wright would give her lecture on

