[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | October | Issue: 5 | Title: EREMONT STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

		EREMONT STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Fremont
Stake was held July 27th, 1903 in Flamm’s
Hall, Rexburg, Idaho, President Temp-
erance Hinckley presiding. After the usual
exercises etc., the stake officers were sustain-
ed. The President called for reports, fif-
teen branches were satisfactorily reported
out of seventeen. Sister Emma S. Wood-
ruff, President of Granite Stake and mem-
ber of the General Board complimented
the sisters on their good reports and
stated that she had asked President Bath-
sheba W. Smith what she should say to
the sisters; she replied. “Tell them to get
the spirit of God and keep it.”
	Sister Woodruff urged them to get the
young mothers out to attend the lectures
and to join the society, have them help sing
and lecture they will make your meetings
more interesting and beneficial to all. “We
will be judged out of the books and if we
have no credit marks it will be a poor
	ord.”

[Column 2]
	Explained the Woman’s Building and
spoke upon purity and duties of teachers;
read minutes of the first organization of the
Relief Society and some minutes of the first
meetings; exhorted all to take the EXPON-
ENT, as it would be a great help.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde felt love and
sympathy for all women, thought pioneer
life had been a good school, like purifying
gold; spoke of the progress of the society
for the last fifty years and on home influence,
developing of mind, teaching children the
principles of the Gospel was beautifully por-
trayed, light and intelligence has flowed
from heaven in the heart of woman since
this society was organized; spoke upon Tem-
ple work and the blessings lost by those who
married outside.
	Apostle M. F. Cowley congratulated the
sisters on their labor and spoke of Temple
work, the necessity of getting genealogy,
told them to work together in harmony, have
no envy or jealousy among you, be broad and
generous in your views and you will be
blest, women have great influence for good
or evil, gave much good counsel.
	Elder J. Golden Kimball spoke upon a
wife’s influence, earnestly advised mothers
to teach their children right, referred to the
grand work of this society. What it
had done in sending out qualified nurses,
they are angels of mercy. Said you are
casting your bread upon the waters, his
sympathy was with the women, they were
doing a great missionary work, touched up-
on faith and industry.
	President Thomas E. Bassett endorsed all
that had been said, and added that he
would like every Relief Society in the stake
to have a good granary built and ready to
put their wheat in this fall; he was thank-
ful for the instructions received.
	At the afternoon session, Counselor
Annie T. Hyde gave a discourse on various
duties of the sisters, laying up wheat and
the care of it, explained the Woman’s
Building in detail, also mother’s work, how
it should be conducted, the love and care of
children; advised all to take the EXPONENT
urged the sisters to choose a committee and
have a plan of work prepared for the stake
and submitted to the General Board for ap-
proval. “Live the Gospel and be patient,
your reward will be sure”.
	President Emma S. Woodruff spoke upon
the power of love, the great things that
could be accomplished through it, gave her
experience of her own work as a teacher,
how she had traveled six and seven miles
with her baby in her arms to teach and visit
the sisters, spoke with much earnestness on
Temple work, advised all to respect the
priesthoodand to have love and charity, with-
out this they could not be happy, Advised 
them to hold officers meetings once a month.
President Temperance Hinckley gave a vote
of thanks to the visiting sisters. Counselor
Matilda Flamm made a few remarks express-
ing her joy and good will towards all and
desire to press forward in the work.
	A committee was then elected to prepare
a plan of mother’s work, Sisters Susan
Stevens, Martha Lloyd, Sarah A. Barnes
and Carrie Smith. It was stated by the
President that a Stake Fair was to be held
at the next quarterly conference and it was
suggested each member make some article
for the Fair to be sold to create a fund for
the stake, she said in closing, “I trust you
will all try and put in practice the good and
grand instructions we have had today.” Con-
ference adjourned for three months.
		SARAH A. BARNES, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
