[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | October | Issue: 5 | Title: International Council of Women | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.
To the Readers of the Women Exponent.
	Among those whom this address describes
are many of our Council workers, and it,
therefore, seems proper to send to such
through the columns of this paper, some

[Column 2]
news concerning the progress of the Council
movement.
	In writing upon this subject, I always
feel like, “harking back” to the significance
of the phrase “Council Movement.” What
does it mean? It means the movement
whose object is to draw together people
who are to a degree unlike; who have hith-
erto thought themselves too unlike to unite
in any common work:—to bring such
people together with the conscious and
avowed intention of finding some common
work in doing which they can unite.
	I need hardly remind American women
that this movement originated in Washing-
ton in 1888 with a convention International
in character, called to celebrate the fortieth
anniversary of the movement on behalf of
the political enfranchisement of American
Women. This is only fifteen years ago,
and surely, the results, of the effort then
inaugurated to make the influence of that
organization felt beyond the limits which
had hitherto bound it, are far from being
discouraging. Further recapitulation here
is unnecessary—suffice it that the Council
movement in its International application
has reached a state where it is necessary in
order to carry on its work to hold annually
a meeting of its Executive Committee. Such
a meeting was held in Dresden in August
of this year.
	During my own administration, Execu-
tives have been held previously in 1900 in
Paris; 1901 at the Hague 1902 in Copen-
hagen. The one at Dresden in 1903 was
convened with a view to its occupying the
17th, 18th, and 19th of August. As a
matter of fact, it ran over into the 20th, and
made that day as busy and as long as any
one of its predecessors. It was not un-
natural that the Dresden Executive should
have been better attended than any of the
preceding annual Executives of the Coun-
cil, for we were within a year of the meet-
ing of the Quinquennial which back in
1899 was set for Berlin, and then seemed a
long way off.
	When the International Council, ad-
journed in London in 1899, it was com-
posed of ten National Councils, three of
these having been voted in that same year.
It now includes nineteen National Councils
two having been voted in at Dresden. At
Dresden, all of the general officers except-
ing only the Recording Secretary, Mille.
Camille Vidart of Switerland, were present;
and all but two of the Councils were repre-
sented either by their own president, vice-
president, or a bona fide proxy. The
sessions, though devoted strictly to busi-
ness and requiring a great deal of hard
work were very interesting, and some im-
portant decisions were arrived at in which
all Council women will be interested. The
most important were in relation to the
Quinquennial at Berlin, and to summarize
these as briefly as possible, it may be
stated: That the Quinquennial proper of
the International Council will occupy the
week beginning June 6th. The Executive
will be convened on Tuesday morning
June the 7th. Besides the Executive ses-
sions, which will run through the week,

[Column 3]
probably occupying all of the mornings,
the Council will hold three public meetings
on the evenings of June 11th, 12th, and
13th.
	The International Council will be con-
vened according to the laws and customs of
Germany under the auspices of the Na-
tional Council of Germany whose President
will give the address of welcome. This
will be responded to by the president of the
International Council, who will then take
charge of the meeting, and present the
President of each National Council, or her
proxy, together with the general officers of
the International, and the honorary vice-
presidents who are beginning the organi-
zation of the National Councils, in count-
ries where such are not yet formed. The
theme of this meeting will be what the
President of the International Council
sometime since named “The New Inter-
nationalism,” and its object will be both
demonstration and propaganda. The sec-
ond evening will be a continuance of the
discussion of Internationalism, the subject
being illuminated by reports from every
one of the twenty-two National Councils
that it is believed will at the time, compose
the International. The theme on the third
evening will be Peace and Arbitration
which will be discussed in three formal ad-
dresses; one in English which Lady Aber-
deen has been invited to give, the second
in German by Baroness Von Suttner, and
the third in French is to be given by some
member of the French Council elected by
that Council to perform this noble task.
	The International Congress, all prepara-
tions for which will be made by the Na-
tional Council of Women of Germany will
be opened on Monday June 13th, and will
occupy the week adjourning on Saturday
the 18th. The committee of Arrangements
for the International Congress is composed
of the officers of the National Council of
Germany together with the associates that
have been elected for the purpose. The
Congress will be conducted in four sections
running simultaneously, so far as day ses-
sions are concerned during the week. The
sections will be convened under the follow-
ing titles:—
	(1) Women’s Education and Higher
Culture (under general charge of Fraulein
Lange, and Fraulein Baumer).
	(2) Women in Social Aims and Institut-
on (founded either for or by women for
the improvement of social conditions). This
section will discuss such questions as Tem-
perance, Social Purity, etc., and is under
the general charge of Frau Edinger.
	(3) Women’s Professions and Industries
(under general charge of Fraulein Alice
Saloman).
	(4)The Legal and Political Position of
Women (under the general charge of Freien
Von Beschwitz.)
	Baroness Von Beschwitz is the chairman
of the standing committee of the Inter-
national Council on Laws concerning Do-
mestic Relations. She has had great diffii-
culty, as every one must have who under-
takes International work in organizing a
committee which shall include an active


[Column 1]
representative from every one of the affilia-
ted Councils. The Baroness has, however,
worked with as much tact as diligence, and
the experience which she has had in organ-
izing her committee will enable her to do
most effective work as the leader of this
section of the International Congress.
	The present intention is that these s[---]-
ions shall meet for six days from 6 a. m. to
2 o’clock p. m. An effort will be made to
have the present position and work of the
women of every country within the Council
properly presented. The discussions will
be limited strictly to the rights and duties
of women in connection with the various
subjects indicated. The afternoons of Con-
gress week as well as the evenings will be
occupied by large public meetings and social
gatherings. The subjects for the public
meetings are as follows:—
	(1) Education
	(2) Suffrage for Women
	(3) Equal Pay for Equal Work
	(4) Women in Science and Art. 
	The phrasing of these titles will doubt-
less be altered as preparations go forward
before any formal program is printed, but
the general themes are plainly indicated in
the foregoing statements.
	The Committee of Arrangements includes
a large number of Germany’s most able
women. These women are fired by a legi-
timate ambition to demonstrate to the world
how German women can convene and pre-
pare for an International Congress on a
scale large and generous enough to justify
its title.
	Many questions have been asked as to the
possibility of enjoying such freedom of
speech as a program including the subjects
named would imply. I am constantly in
receipt of letters questioning the possibility
of this. I am assured, however, on the
very best authority that there will be no
limitation whatever on freedom of speech,
excepting such limitation as good sense and
good breeding would indicate. According
to German law the meetings must be con-
vened by the Germans themselves. Once
convened all legitimate liberty will be en-
joyed. The German women are illustrating
the energy, patience, and capacity for work
characteristic of their countrymen. They
began their work long enough in advance
to justify the conviction that strangers will
find the arrangements perfect in every detail.
There is no doubt that the members of the
Committee of Arrangements are united in
their intention to be just and impartial in
the apportionment of time and opportunity
to the representatives of different countries to
set forth their views on every subject. 
	The President of every National Council
has been invited to send a list of the names
of persons whom it would seem most suita-
ble to invite to speak in meetings of such
International importance; and in every
country so far as heard from, the President
of every Council in preparing such a list has
followed a method similar to that adopted
by Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, the President of
the National Council of Women of the
United States. Some time ago Mrs. Swift
issued a letter to the President of every
National organization and every Local Coun-
cil belonging to the National Council asking
her to nominate women to present papers,
and to participate in the discussion of the
International Congress of 1904. Each such
President was invited to nominate (first)
such members of her own organization as
seemed desirable; (second) women outside

[Column 2]
of her organization and in any part of the
country, whose culture, and achievments
would indicate the propriety of their being
invited to take part in such a meeting.
	Mrs. Swift invited her correspondents to
send their answers to her communication
before October 15th, so that she might find
them awaiting her arrival. Mrs. Swift
arrived in New York on October 20th. She
will come directly to Indianapolis where her
correspondents were invited to address their
replies to her official communication, and
where she will make up the lists of speakers
and writers to be sent to the German Com-
mittee of Arrangements. Mrs. Swift has
invited me to assist her in this work. It is
the desire of both of us that a large number
of American women shall be present in
Berlin during the Third Quinquennial of
the International Council, and the Interna-
tional Congress which will follow it. It is,
moreover, our desire that the American point
of view on every question discussed at both
the Council Quinquennial and the Congress
shall be ably presented. We unite in solic-
ting suggestions concerning the best pos-
sible speakers, writers, and participants in
discussions etc. from all sources. Any one
who reads this article, and is interested in
its contents is invited to send her sugges-
tions concerning American representatives
on the program of the Congress, either to
the President of the National organization
to which she belongs, which in turn is affil-
iated with the National Council of Women
of the United States, to the President of the
Local Council to which she belongs, or di-
rectly to the President of the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States who dur-
ing October may be addressed at 633 N.
Pennsylvania St, Indianapolis, Indiana.
	One very important decision was reached
at the Dresden Executive which should be
mentioned here. The German Committee
of Arrangements gave notice that it was
their purpose that no one should speak in
the public meetings whose voice can not
easily be heard in the largest auditorium,
and that no one should be either invited or
permitted to read papers or take part in dis-
cussions in the sectional meetings, who can
not speak in a voice to be heard easily in a
hall of ordinary size adapted to a sectional
Congress meeting. People who have suf-
fered (and who has not?) the agony of strain-
ing to hear weak, wavering, unpenetrating
voices, will rejoice at this decision, and I
make no doubt that women of such firmness
of character as constitute the German Com-
mittee of Arrangements will carry out their
purpose.
	I am often asked what language will be
used at the Congress. According to a de-
cision made in 1900 in Paris, any speaker or
writer may present her views in English,
German, or French. So far as papers are
concerned, in as much as the audiences will
necessarily be largely composed of Germans,
if papers are to be given in French or Eng-
lish, it seems proper that German transla-
tions should be made, and distributed to the
audience.
	Long ago when the National Council of
Women of the United States was organized,
the question arose as to whether an organi-
zation which was committed to the policy of
making no propaganda for any cause that
did not command the unanimous vote of its
Executive, could ever do anything of any
consequence. The founders of the Council
then said: “Let all organizations that are
committed to a definite propaganda enter

[Column 3]
the Council, let the Council itself remain a
non-partisan, meeting ground and the result
will be that it will become a more efficient
agent in the promotion of Woman Suffrage
than a Suffrage organization itself ever can
be.” It would seem as if this declaration
was justified by what has happened in the
short space of fifteen years—even in the
short space of four years. In 1899 a diffi-
culty arose as to having a public meeting
on Suffrage held under the auspices of the
International Council. Now, the Commit-
tee of Arrangements for an International
Congress in the country that has always
been regarded as the peculiar realm of the
house-frau provides for the same recognition
of Woman’s Suffrage as of the Higher Edu-
cation of Women. This simple fact is sig-
nificant of much.
	The chairman of the Committee of local
arrangements for both the Quinquennial of
the Council, and the International Congress
is Frau Hedwig Heyl. Frau Heyl who is,
I understand, aided by a most admirably
selected committee, announced at Dresden
that the Philharmonic Hall in Berlin would
be available for the meetings of both Inter-
national Council, and International Con-
gress. Frau Heyl was herself in attendance
upon the Executive at Dresden, and par-
ticularly asked that each National Council
should make a collection of the photographs
of their leading pioneer women, and of its
members who would necessarily be absent,
for the decoration of the rooms in which the
meetings will be held.
	At Dresden, just as much social pleasure
as was compatible with the heavy work on
hand, was provided for the entertainment
of the delegates. On the evening of the
16th, the officers of the German Council
entertained the officers of the International
Council, and the members of the Executive
with a company of selected guests from
their own National Council at a beautiful
banquet. Monday, Tuesday, and Wednes-
day, the members of the Executive were
entertained together at luncheon; a function
which in the length of time it occupied,
might well have been called a banquet. On
all of these occasions, conversation was en-
livened by toasts, clever speeches and
music. On Thursday, after the late adjourn-
ment of the Executive, its members were
entertained by the officers of the German
Council by a trip to Meissen, and given a
beautiful luncheon in the garden overlook-
ing this picturesque old suburb. Arriving
at Meissen, before repairing to the garden
for luncheon, the guests were conducted by
their hostesses through devious ways up
and down streets that are rugged to the
point of being precipitous, to pay their rev-
erent respects to the memory of Louise Otto,
by looking at the house where she lived for
many years, and where her death took place
in——. As a tablet placed by the German
Council shows Louise Otto was the founder
of the woman’s movement in Germany, and
if one may credit the statements of her ad-
mirers, she must have been a woman most
richly endowed; erudite and eloquent, a re-
former and a poet, she united the culture
which can only be gathered in retirement,
with the passion for humanity which often
summoned her from her retirement to the
forefront of publicity. Louise Otto is re-
garded by German women as Lucretia Mott,
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony
and Lucy Stone are regarded by Americans,
and as they will increasingly be regarded
as American women come more and more


to seek the roots of the tree of knowledge
and opportunity whose fruits they now so
freely pluck.
	If the International Council has already
a vitality which will compel women to come
together from widely scattered countries at
the expense and fatigue incident to journeys
of thousands of miles, merely that they may
confer three or four days in business ses-
sions, we may anticipate that public meet-
ings like the Quinquennial of 1904, and the
International Congress incident to it, will
not be lacking in participants, or in auditors.
May the United States of America, furnish
its full quota of both!
	The increasing growth of the Council
may be inferred from the fact that the Pres-
ident was authorized to name Honorary
Vice Presidents for Peru, Chili, Mexico,
Japan, and Turkey; in each country steps
having been taken looking toward Council
organization.
	Hoping that the business core of commu-
nication will not be lost by its readers in
the digressions which have been made, and
hoping that prompt responses may soon
come from every Council worker who would
have a voice in suggesting names for the
programs of next summer’s meeting, I con-
clude a communication written for Mrs. Swift
as well as myself,
		(signed) MAY WRIGHT SEWALL,
	President of the International Council
				of Woman.
October 20, 1903.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
