[Vol3 | April 1916 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON I Theology and Testimony First Week April 1916 WOMEN]
Guide Lessons.
LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week, April, 1916.
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. MIRIAM AND DEBORAH.
(Read the following references first:?For Miriam I Chronicles, 6:3; Exodus, 2:4-9; Exodus, 15:20, 21; Numbers, chapter 12.?For Deborah Judges, chapters 4 and 5.)
It is often thought by us modern Occidentals that the women of Bible times were timid, subjected creatures, without any influence outside the home. This may have been true of other nations in the ancient Orient, but it was not so among the Jews. A nation that can boast of a Miriam and a Deborah must have had an extremely high conception of the dignity of woman. No one can read the record of these two women's doings, brief as that record is, without feeling the high place which woman held in the Hebrew nation.
Miriam was the sister of Moses. This is a significant fact. The sister of Moses! Ranke, one of our most thoughtful historians, declares that Moses was "the most exalted figure in all primitive history," for the reason, largely, that he revealed to the world and incorporated in his people an idea "for all times and all nations." Is it probable that, as Moses' sister, Miriam did not share in the splendour of his genius and that, as his intimate companion for many years, she did not acquire power and influence through his mighty achievements? "I sent before thee Moses, Aaron, and Miriam," says the Prophet Micah, speaking for the Lord to Israel and referring to the redemption of the Hebrews from the bondage of Egypt. Here Miriam's name is associated with that of Aaron and of Moses as the divine instruments of that most memorable event in Old Testament history. And the pen that wrote the second book in the Bible calls her emphatically "the prophetess."
On three separate occasions is Miriam represented as taking part in some significant action: Once, when she loiters around by the Nile waiting anxiously to see what is to become of the infant Moses in his cradle of bulrushes by the water's brink, and then, when the princess suddenly finds the child crying and takes pity on it, she hurries to the scene, quick-wittedly, to ask whether she shall not fetch a nurse, and brings her own mother. And again, when she leads "all the women" of the Hebrew camp in the dance to the sound of the timbrel, to celebrate the victory of the Red Sea, as the carcasses of the Egyptians float upon the crests of the waves. "Sing ye to the Lord," she shouts, "for He hath triumphed gloriously; the horse and his rider hath He thrown into the sea!" And, once again, when "Miriam and Aaron"?note the order of the names?"spake against Moses." They reproved him for his marriage to an Ethiopian woman. "The Lord," we are told, "came down in the pillar of the cloud, and stood in the door of the tabernacle, and called Aaron and Miriam." Jehovah was angry with them, and when the cloud was lifted from the tabernacle, "behold, Miriam became leprous, white as snow!" On Aaron's admitting that he and Miriam had "done foolishly" and "sinned," Moses cried to the Lord in her behalf, and she was made whole again. But she was required to stay without the camp of Israel for seven days, during which the people waited at Hazeroth. Miriam must therefore have been a remarkable woman. She was a prophetess doubtless in the sense that she, with Moses and Aaron, was divinely appointed to lead the Children of Israel out of their bondage in the land of Egypt to the Land of Promise. As a co-worker with her notable brothers, she must have partaken, with them, of the spirit of prophecy and revelation, and had her part in the direction of affairs, most probably among the women. A great honour, she is, to the nation that produced her.
In Deborah we have another remarkable woman. The wife of Lapidoth (Jewish tradition has it that she was the wife of Barak, who thus becomes the same with Lapidoth), she has been called a "torch-like woman" and a "furnisher of light"?something that is true of her in more than one sense. The sacred historian calls her a prophetess and says that she "judged Israel." There can be no reasonable doubt that Jehovah called her to the leadership of Israel at this time and that He inspired her in the great work of delivering her people from the power of their enemies?which proves that the Spirit of God rests alike upon Jew and Gentile, male and female, bond and free, and that He is no "respecter of persons."
It seems that at this time the Hebrew people had one of their dwindlings into unbelief, in the language of the Book of Mormon. The record says that "the Children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord" and that He delivered them "into the hand of Jabin, king of Canaan," whose seat was Hazor. Of this king the Israelites were afraid, for "he had nine hundred chariots of iron." For "twenty years he mightily oppressed the children of Israel," chiefly by means of the terrible Sisera, captain of his hosts. When this oppression reached the unbearable point, the Israelites "cried unto the Lord," as was their wont in deep distress, however forgetful they might have been in their prosperity. And so Jehovah raised up a deliverer to them in the person of Deborah, a woman.
Deborah, we are told, "dwelt under a palm tree." That was because she was a woman, for a woman could not teach in private but only in the open air, where all could assemble. "And the children of Israel came up to her for judgement," the record says. One day Deborah "sent and called Barak." She said, "Hath not the Lord God of Israel commanded, saying, Go and draw toward Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun"?two of the twelve tribes? Barak obediently came to Deborah, but for some reason?probably because he trusted more in the arm of man, or, strictly speaking, in the arm of woman, than in the arm of Jehovah?refused to go up against the enemy unless she went with him. She consented, warning him, however, that the glory of the victory, would belong to a woman. The result was as she had predicted. Of all the hosts of Sisera "not a man was left," and Sisera himself, fleeing on foot, fell into the hands of the artful Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, and was killed by her in the most ignominious fashion. Thus was Israel delivered from the hand of their oppressors by the inspired mind of a woman. Deborah is therefore a most extraordinary figure in Jewish history. She takes the part both of the man of peace and the man of war. In peace she attracts to her the people who seek counsel and the adjustment of difficulties, and in war such leaders as Barak. Whether or not Barak is regarded as her husband, the situation is equally remarkable. A commanding personality, performing the functions of judge, warrior, and prophet!
QUESTIONS.
Compare these two women, (1) in the situation they found themselves in, (2) in their opportunities, so far as we know them, and (3) in their character and works.
