Let Martha Rest Sundays By Ethel C. Butt When the icicles are hanging from the eaves and the family come shivering in with red noses and cold-whipped appetites, is the time for steaming hot roasts, puddings, and spicy foods. But in August let us have something cold or quickly cooked for Sunday dinner; something with plenty of fruits and vegetables. What a relief it is to mother to feel free to don her Sunday best, and march to Sunday School with the children, knowing that in record time she can place a satisfying meal before her family. Glance over the menus given below. Notice that they give a variety of food, yet with the exception of the first dinner, most of the food may be prepared on Saturday. Dinner No. I Broiled chicken New potatoes in parsley and butter Baby beets Creamed peas Raspberries and cream Wafers Dinner No. IT Veal loaf with peas Currant jelly Creamed new potatoes String bean salad Orange sherbet Oatmeal cookies Dinner No. III Cold sliced lamb Chili sauce Corn on the cob Sliced tomato salad with mayonnaise Apricot cream Sponge cake Dinner No. IV Salmon in mould Broiled tomatoes Creamed carrots Lettuce and cucumber salad Peach shortcake For Dinner No. I, the chicken should be cleaned on Saturday and placed on ice. Cook the beets and cover with a syrup made by adding 1 tablespoon sugar and 2 tablespoons vinegar or lemon juice to 1 cup of water. The peas may be shelled, washed, dried, and put in a cold place, though many prefer to shell them the day they are used. Sunday morning, peel the potatoes and let them stand in cold water. Wash and mince the parsley, and cover with cold, wet  cloth. Look over and wash raspberries. In forty minutes after you return from Sunday School, your family can be eating dinner; for all that remains to be done is to broil the chicken for 20 or 30 minutes, (depending on its age), to cook the potatoes, and make white sauce to combine with the cooked peas. Dinner No. IT can be almost all prepared on Saturday. Make the salad dressing and the veal loaf. Cook the string beans. Wash, separate, and wrap the lettuce with a wet cloth, ready for the salad. The syrup for the sherbet is really better if it stands over night. Sunday morning, mix the chilled cream and fruit juice for the sherbet and freeze immediately, using 1 part salt to 3 parts ice. Mix the beans with the salad dressing. Peel potatoes and let them stand in cold water. The preparations just before dinner are simple. While the potatoes are cooking, the white sauce is made, and the salad arranged on the lettuce leaves. In like manner, Dinner No. III may mostly be made ready on Saturday. The lamb is roasted, the mayonnaise dressing and sponge cake made, and the foundation for the apricot cream prepared. The lettuce, corn, and tomatoes may be cleaned and made ready Sunday morning. Mixing and freezing the apricot cream is usually a Sunday morning job, unless the freezer is very well packed and a cold storage place is at hand. The final preparations for this meal need not be longer than is required to cook the corn, since all the other work except setting the table, is arranging the salad and slicing the lamb. The Saturday work for Dinner No. IV consists of preparing the salmon in the mold and making the cake for the peach shortcake. Sponge cake or regular butter cake may be used for this. Sunday morning, the carrots should be prepared for cooking, and the lettuce and tomatoes washed. While the carrots and tomatoes are cooking, the white sauce should be made, the salad arranged, the peaches peeled, and the cream whipped for the shortcake. Although most housewives know how to cook the dishes included in the above menus, the following recipes may help: Veal Loaf Separate a knuckle of veal in pieces by sawing through the bone. Wipe, put in kettle with one pound lean veal and one onion. Cover with boiling water and cook slowly until veal is tender. Drain, chop meat finely, add salt and pepper. Garnish bottom of mold with cooked peas. Put in layer of meat, layer of peas, and cover with remaining meat. Reduce liquor to one cupful and pour over meat. Press and chill, turn on dish and garnish with parsley. Serve with currant jelly. LET MARTHA REST SUNDAYS 441 Orange Sherbet 1% cups sugar Juice of 2 oranges 1 quart thin cream, Juice of 1 lemon or whole milk Add sugar to orange and lemon juice. Let stand until sugar is thoroughly dissolved. Chill cream, add syrup, then freeze. Oatmeal Cookies 2/3 cup butter or other fat 1 teaspoon baking powder 1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon each of nutmeg and cinnamon 2 eggs ? cup milk 1 cup seeded raisins 2 cups pastry flour 2 cups rolled oats. Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten eggs, then milk and rolled oats, then raisins. Sift flour, baking powder, salt and spices together; sift again, and add to first mixture. Drop by spoonfuls on greased pan, and bake in hot oven. Apricot Cream 1 1/2 cups apricot pulp Juice of 1 lemon 1 1/2 cups granulated sugar 1 quart of thin cream Pare and stone ripe apricots. Rub through strainer. Add sugar and lemon juice. Let stand until sugar is all dissolved (over night'if possible). Chill cream, and fruit syrup, and freeze. Salmon in Mold 1 can salmon or 4 tablespoons melted butter 2 cups cold cooked salmon Salt and pepper to taste 4 eggs beaten well Juice of 1/2 lemon, or a little vinegar ? cup fine crumbs Drain salmon, pick free from bones. Rub in bowl with silver spoon and work in the butter. Beat crumbs into eggs, season, and add to salmon. Steam in a buttered mold (granite, earthen. Or aluminum). Let stand until cold. Slice thin. Garnish with half slices of lemon. Bottled Tomatoes Select firm, smooth, ripe tomatoes. Wipe them and cut out the hard center around the stem ends, then cut in halves, crosswise. Dip soft side in melted butter; sprinkle with salt, pepper, and buttered crumbs, pressing crumbs into tomato with knife. Arrange in well greased broiler and broil until soft with skin side down. Remove to hot serving platter and serve immediately.