Notes from the Field Garfield Stake. A fine demonstration of what may be accomplished when vision is coupled with faith and energy is given in the work of the past year in the Garfield stake Relief Society. Under the able leadership of the stake presidency and board, all lines of Relief Society work have been enthusiastically demonstrated, with wonderfully fine results. The activities have included ward conferences in all the wards of the stake, a very fine visiting teachers' convention, and a teacher-training convention. Subjects for discussion in these various activities have Display By ESCALANTE NORTH WARD been along those lines that will tend to make the women more efficient in the discharge of their duties in the Society as well as in the home. Recognition of the fine cook book published by this stake has been made before in the Magazine, and the fact that the artistic side of the work has not been neglected is borne out in the picture here presented. This is from the Escalante North Ward; it shows the type of art work accomplished in the Work and Business Meeting. In this stake there are special obstacles to be overcome. We congratulate President Rowan and her board upon the work accomplished. Summit Stake.; News of the reorganization of the Summit stake Relief Society came to the office some time ago, but it was not until NOTES FROM THE FIELD 443 the present issue that the Magazine was able to announce the list of newly elected officers. They are: president, Myrtle Richens; first counselor, Edith C. Clark; second counselor, Annie W. Wilde; secretary-treasurer, Caroline B. Sargent; chorister, Judith A. Beard; organist, Mary E. Wright; magazine representative, Vivian D. Sargent; literary leader, Lydia Demming; teachers topic leader, Bessie Hixson; clinic and welfare work, Clara Copely. We think highly of the Summit stake organization, and expect excellent work from the fine corps of leaders now in charge. North Sevier Stake. Under the leadership of the new presidency and stake beard, North Sevier stake Relief Society entertained the following retiring officers: Minnie S. Dastrup, president; Elizabeth Thalman, first counselor; Virgie E. Cowley, secretarytreasurer; and Laura E. Holdaway, social service leader. For their long and efficient services, the retiring officers were presented with a token of appreciation. Mrs. Dastrup has served as president for the past seven years. As they retire from their office, these sisters enjoy the love and appreciation of the entire stake. Similar successful work is expected from the new cfficers who have assumed the leadership. Curlew Stake. A clinic and piece of social welfare work exceptionally successful in the field of health has been carried on in thd Curlew stake under the leadership of the Relief Society stake presidency and board. There are, in all, about 1,256 people in the Curlew stake. The inconvenience of taking people who need attention to the distant hospitals renders most necessary such pieces of work as that recently accomplished by the stake board. With the unreserved cooperation of the local physician, who called others to his aid, in some 43 cases diseased tonsils and adenoids were removed. The Relief Society organization advanced and the money to those who were unable to meet the cost. This greatly needed piece of welfare work has produced excellent results in the stake. Pocatello Stake. On March 18th, the recreation hall of the Pocatello stake Relief Society was the scene of a large gathering celebrating the anniversary of the birth of the Relief Society. A beautiful pageant depicting the growth and development of the Relief Societies in the stake was presented. Over 100 women took part in this demonstration. The stage was artistically decorated in orchid and yellow and white flowers, the actors being  gowned in the same colors. Mrs. Otto McKnelly was the reader, and a combined ladies' chorus and orchestra furnished appropriate music. The seven general presidents of the Relief Society since 1842 were shown in living pictures. A biblical pageant depicting famous women of the Bible opened the entertainment. So successful was the program that on March 24th it was repeated. California Mission?Merced Branch, Fine reports reach us in reference to the work in the RELIEF SOCIETY California mission. The picture, typical of the. Groups of Relief Society women carrying on the work, came to us from the Merced branch. Kolob Stake. Another fine celebration of the anniversary day of the Relief Society was that of the Kolob stake, when the stake board entertained the ward executive officers and the stake presidency and their wives. All guests were asked to wear an old-fashioned bonnet. During the luncheon an address of welcome was given by Stake Relief Society President Hannah B. Mendenhall. Each group was welcomed in honor of the first Relief Society organization, and the succeeding presidents down to the present day. During the luncheon, toasts in the honor of St. Patrick were given from aeroplanes taking an imaginary trip to the Emerald Isle. Games, community singing, and jokes ended a very pleasant afternoon. At the luncheon the place cards were a surprise to Sister Mendenhall, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 445 Learing a miniature photograph of herself. The various wards of the stake celebrated Anniversary Day on Tuesday, March 19th. Four of the wards gave the play "The Miracle," written by Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine and published in the Magazine. The new plan for the visiting teachers is proving most satisfactory and the attendance of teachers is steadily increasing. Logan Stake. The problem of beautifying the chapel grounds of the Providence Second Ward was solved when the Relief Society of that ward devised ways and means. Through the efforts of a committee a gravel bed was made into a beautiful lawn and flower-bed. Each member of the Relief Society was asked to donate 50 cents for plants and shrubs; the men of the ward, donating their work, placed in fit condition the grounds. About $752.60 was the total of the donation in cash and work. Not only did the group of women respond to their part of the work, but planted corn and beans on a vacant piece of property and made noodles to sell, realizing over $300 from the sale. Extensive improvements throughout the coming season are planned by the beautification committee. Relief Society Group Conventions, 1929 Two-day Conventions May 4-5 Alberta, Lethbridge, St. Johns, Uintah. May 11-12 Snowflake, Taylor. May 18-19 Big Horn, Maricopa. May 25-26 Juarez, Kanab, St. Joseph. June 1-2 Boise, Moapa, Raft River, San Juan. June 15-16 St. George, San Luis, Star Valley, Union, Young. June 22-23 Carbon. June 29-30 Wayne, Woodruff. July 6-7 Curlew, Lost River, Lyman. July 13-14 Bannock, Emery. Aug. 17-18 Blaine, Roosevelt. Aug. 24-25 Duchesne. Sent # Garfield, Idaho, Panguitch. Oct. 19-20 Nevada. One-day Conventions June 23 San Francisco. Aug. 25 Burley, Cassia, Franklin, Minidoka, North Sevier, Oneida, Teton. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Sept. 8 Benson, Box Elder, Cache, Hyrum, Logan, Montpelier. Sept. 15 Bear Lake, Fremont, Malad, Rigby, Summit, Yellowstone. Sept. 22 Mt. Ogden, Ogden, North Weber, Pocatello, Portneuf, Tooele, Twin Falls, Weber. Sept. 29 Alpine, Juab, Kolob, Lehi, Palmyra, Timpanogos, Oct. Utah. 13 Bear River, Beaver, Idaho Falls, Millard, Morgan. Nebo, Wasatch. 20 Blackfoot, Gunnison, Hollywood, North Sanpete. Sevier, South Sanpete, South Sevier, Shelley. 27 Deseret, Los Angeles, North Davis, Parowan, Tintic. Nov. 17 South Davis. Note: Dates for the ten Salt Lake County stake conventions will be announced later.