The Bible: The Inspiration of Mankind By Mrs, Bessie Redding Search the Scriptures We are bidden (John 5:39) to "Search the Scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life and they are they that testify of me." Here we have the command. We are not left in doubt. The reason is plainly stated. By reading the Scriptures: (1) we obey the command of authority; (2) we are shown the way that leads to eternal life; (3) we gain individual testimonies of the divinity of Jesus Christ. I shall answer the question, what is the Bible? From four standpoints: I. The Bible is the word of God. II. It is the greatest book of literature. III. It is the source of inspiration for writers, poets, preachers. IV. It is the only book to which Christians have turned for comfort, wisdom and guidance. The Word of God Moses wrote the law and gave it to the sons of Levi, commanding them to fear God and to obey the commandments written in the Ark of the Covenant. In Deuteronomy 17, 18, 20, the Priests of Levi are again commanded to keep the commandments of that book. The book of Mormon, in First Nephi, states that the Bible is of divine origin. Tradition gives evidence of the divinity of the Bible. It is our religious heritage handed down from Father Adam, from one generation to another. We Latter-day Saints believe in the Bible. We take it literally as a divine record of God's dealing with his people. As the firmaments declare the handiwork of God, so the Bible declares itself to be his word. The Book of Literature That the Bible is the greatest book of literature, the most able literary scholars concede. Not even Shakespeare, the literary genius of the ages, could surpass the Bible in real art. No masterpiece, however great, has excelled the Bible in grace, in stateliness, in simplicity of construction. Even Ruskin, whose well poised diction and well balanced sentences are the  admiration of the shrewdest critic, could not surpass the Bible in literary excellence. In this remarkable volume we find the best examples of the four types of English composition?description, narration, exposition, and argumentation. No other descriptions are more graphic, more illuminated, than some of the scenes in the Bible. Here one may visit, with the mind's eye, the Garden of Eden, home of our first parents; or look over the consecrated City of Enoch, or view the Egyptian courts, the home of the pharaohs; or climb up Mt. Sinai; where Moses received the Ten Commandments; or step over to Mt. Ararat, where Noah's Ark landed; or he may view the waters of the Red Sea divided for the children of Israel to come safely from their Egyptian bondage; or behold the sun stand still for Joshua to conquer the enemy?to say nothing of visiting the Holy Land and looking upon the sacred ground whereon the Savior trod, His birthplace and other scenes clear to the hearts of Christians. For one brief moment we shall tarry at the Garden of Gethsemane and view the scene recorded by Luke. Here we stand aweinspired, with abated breath. We behold the Savyior kneeling?one God praying to another?the sublimest prayer ever uttered on earth. The substance of that magnificent appeal, which transcends anything else ever recorded was, "Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: Nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done." The Most Vivid Pictures Then comes the greatest scene ever described in this world's drama. No word in any language is adequate to portray its full significance. The stone is rolled away! Christ the Lord is risen! The glorious Resurrection Day! Here we may behold with Mary Magdalene and the Apostles, our Lord and Master who has broken the bonds of death. These precious scenes, these splendid descriptions, are ours if we read the Scriptures. There are no other narratives so thrilling as those contained in the Bible. The fascinating love story of Ruth and her devotion to her mother-in-law; the patriotism of Esther: the womanliness of Vashti; the loyalty of Samuel and David; the beauty and spirituality of Rebecca; the long and persistent wooing of Jacob for the lovely Rachel, mother of Joseph, and the stoties of heroisrn and achievement of other courageous characters. The Best of Literary Arts The best example we have of exposition is found in the parables and other teachings of the Savior and of the Apostles, THE BIBLE: THE INSPIRATION OF MANKIND 421 and of former leaders. Nowhere is there a better code of ethics than that given by Moses in the Ten Commandments. Infidels, atheists, and other non-conformists concede this. In all literature there is no better example of argumentation than that of Paul's defense before Agrippa. As another example of argumentation, consider Reuben's plea for the return of his young brother Benjamin from the Egyptian court to the grief stricken father, Jacob. The Inspiration of Poets Dante, the Italian scholar, could not have written his "Divine Comedy" had he not been a student of the Bible. Milton chose Isaiah's Fall of Lucifer for the theme of his immortal epic, "Paradise Lost." Shakespeare's remarkable versatility is directly traceable to his knowledge of Bible literature. It is natural to suppose that Wordsworth's knowledge of the Scriptures led him to write of our pre-existent state. From his ''Intimations of Immortality" we have this thought: "Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting; The soul that rises with us?our life's star? Hath had elsewhere its setting, And cometh from afar. Not in entire forgetfulness, And not in utter nakedness, But trailing clouds of glory do we come From God, who is our home." Plato could not have contributed to society his treatise on the "Immortality of the Soul" had he not been conversant with Bible literature. The Guide of Patriots The influence of the Bible is evident in the life and works ot Thomas Jefferson, author of the Declaration of Independence, containing these memorable words: "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal; that. They are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness; that to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed." We see the influence of the Bible in the life and writings of Washington. Lincoln, the great emancipator, was a living example of a life towering in splendor, from faith in the Bible as the divine word of God. The Bible was the source of inspiration, the pillar of  strength to President Wilson as he piloted this nation safely through one of the most perilous periods in its history. Many of his writings are masterpieces, partly because of his undaunted faith in the Bible as God's word. The Creator of World-Visions Most of the poetry worthy of survival has been inspired and fashioned from the lofty sentiments recorded in Holy Writ. In this age of economic strife and rapidly changing social order, when many of life's standards are measured by the dollar mark, our poets are called dreamers. The work-aday, practical world would thus stigmatize the poet; but are not all the world's achievers dreamers? Architects, sculptors, prophets, sages?all are dreamers. Poets are prophets, getting their inspiration from the word of God. Tennyson was inspired to see the vision written in Locksley Hall, in 1848. He says: "For I dipt into the future, far as human eye could see, Saw a vision of the world and all the wonders that would be; Saw the heavens filled with commerce, argosies of magic sails, Pilots of the purple twilight, dropping down with costly bales. Till the war drums throbbed no longer and the battle flags were furled In the parliament of man, the federation of the world, Here the common sense of most, shall hold a fretful realm in awe, And the kindly earth shall slumber lapt in universal law." Prophets of old had seen this vision. Joseph the Seer viewed it; the city of Enoch no doubt lived it. And do not we Latter-day Saints believe there will be a time of world-peace, a millenium? The poet Tennyson saw our time, and even farther into the future when the earth will receive its paradisaical glory and will enter into its rest?its Sabbath?"lapt in universal Jaw." This sublime thought, clothed in poetic language, symbolizes a truth found in the Bible.. The Prompter of Poets Orson F. Whitney tells us that the Savior was our greatest poet, that the Gospel of Jesus Christ is one vast poem from beginning to end. As far back as Pope, poets have used this thought from the Bible: "O Death, where is thy sting? O Grave, where is thy victory?" THE BIBLE: THE INSPIRATION OF MANKIND 423 Longfellow's faith in the Bible was beautiful. His poems breathe his trust in the hereafter. Note these words from his "Resignation." "There is no Death, What seems so is transition." Tennyson was inspired to create such sentiment as is found in his touching lyric, "Crossing the Bar." Whittier, the Quaker poet, was a constant reader of the Bible; we see the influence of this Book in his poetry: "Life is ever Lord of death, and love shall never lose its own." Poets in our Church have voiced some of the loftiest sentiment from the Bible. The poem "Elias" made Orson F. Whitney famous; and Eliza R. Snow's hymn,"O My Father", has enshrined her name among the immortals. It is a beautiful picture of Bible teachings past, present, and future. The Guide of Seekers After God Christianity was deprived of the Priesthood for centuries, but the Bible still proved such an anchor of Christendom throughout the Dark Ages that the accomplishments were wonderful. They builded better than they knew. Nations, kingdoms, principalities, came and went: What gave them such impetus, such stimuli? Their implicit faith in the Bible, which sufficed to bring humanity through a long period of darkness. An illustrious example is seen in the life of the late William Jennings Bryan, his profound studies of the Bible accounting for his own clean life and the wholesome influence he exerted on the lives of thousands. Henry Van Dyke, a Bible student whose writings are inspiring and wholesome, puts his philosophy into these lines: "Four things a man must learn to do If he would keep his record true: To think without confusion clearly, To love his fellowmen sincerely, To act with honest motives purely, To trust in God and heaven securely." Where is there another book that has brought comfort to the grief-stricken, wisdom to the searcher after truth, or spiritual guidance to the masses? "Oh, what sweet joy this sentence gives: I know that my Redeemer lives." Who cannot be wise if he hearken to the Psalms, the Songs of Solomon, the Proverbs, and Ecclesiastes? "Wisdom  is the principal thing, therefore get wisdom; but with all thy getting, get understanding." Even he who denies the existence of God, when facing imminent danger or death, turns to the Bible. Criminals, with a vain attempt at death-bed repentance, call for the Bible. If there had been no Bible, where could the boy Joseph have found inspiration to prompt him to seek the Lord in prayer? Where did he get the inspiration that sent him to his knees before his God? He read James, first chapter, fifth verse: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering." So with implicit faith, the faith of a child, the boy asked, and "God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not," gave freely; and we are beneficiaries of that gift.