Beatrice Farley Stevens Rae B. Barker Relief Society General Board Member "We sing of happiness, of comfort and cheer, Hoping our message may resound far and near, Praying that we may live in harmony With the spirit of true charity. Kind father make our light so shine That we may teach Thy ways divine, Our loving deeds will truth proclaim And glorify Thy name." (Chorus from "The Work We're Called To Do," by Beatrice F. Stevens.) THESE lines are more than the refrain of a song; they are the refrain of Sister Beatrice F. Stevens' own beautiful life. In them we clearly see her pattern for living. Her father and mother, Asa C. Farley and Rachel Poulter, built their family life on a foundation of faith and strength. Love of the Gospel was their pioneer heritage. From their hearth fire came more than ordinary warmth; there was a steady glow of learning, culture, and particularly music that radiated far beyond their modest family circle. It was in this environment that Brother Stringam A. Stevens, then living in the Ogden Fifth Ward, found the talented and lovely young Beatrice, who in 1907 became his wife. She was richly endowed with characteristics and skills which made her a home builder of the first order. Her loveliness was a composite of depth of understanding, tolerance, gentle patience, kindness and courage. Even as a young woman she displayed a fine sense of knowing just the right thing to be done for the particular situation. With a keen intellect, ability to select essentials and dismiss the unimporPage 450 tant, and with natural creative genius, she was inevitably marked for a leader, and her leadership was strong through the quality of gentle persuasion. Complemented by Brother Stevens' dynamic yet quietly aggressive personality, it is easy to understand how each sustained the other in any calling or opportunity. Willingness to serve the Church has been fundamental to both of them. Her many qualifications, permeated by great faith and love for the Gospel, prepared her well for the many positions of responsibility she filled. Three of our Church auxiliary organizations have claimed her as theirs: Primary, Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and Relief Society. We see her versatility in the varied services she gave as teacher, musical director, ward and stake executive in the Mutual Improvement Association, and since 1937, the signal position of member of the General Board of Relief Society. Added to these, she has served faithfully for the past number of years the General Church Music Committee. Her interests were well rounded. For study she affiliated with the Del- BEATRICE FARLEY STEVENS phian group and Contemporary Readers. With her husband she enjoyed the sweet association of longtime friends in the Neighborly Circle. Her interest in music, however, 451 years she has given Relief Society 'four songs, and has worked with painstaking care on the compilation of the new Relief Society Song Book. Her activities in connection with BEATRICE FARLEY STEVENS merits special mention. It has been a shining silver cord running through her life. Her talent as composer has been recognized numerous times. In February of this year, 1941, she won the distinction of writing words and music for the University of Utah Alma Mater song, "Hail Utah." In the past four Relief Society Singing Mothers' choruses have endeared her to women throughout the Church. Characteristic of a delicately sensitive soul, Sister Stevens rose to her creative best under stress of worry or suffering. Unlike many in similar circumstances, she expressed herself, not in complaint or hopeless- 452 ness, but poured out her feelings in song. "all things gather where life is a song, all things come at the call of rejoicing." When Relief Society sent out the call to the women of the Church to rally to its cause in the interest of increased membership, it was Sister Stevens' stirring song of "A Hundred Thousand Strong," with its martial beat and confident note, that roused the enthusiasm of our sisters far and near. Our hearts will be filled with thanksgiving, both for her noble life and for the wonderful Gospel wherein she found opportunity for expression, when we sing the last song she wrote—the Relief Society centennial song, "A Song of Triumph." This With the poet she knew that. 

 

 song was born of inspiration and out of her great love for Relief Society work. Rising above her physical suffering, she completed this happy though arduous task only a few days before her passing, June 19, 1941. Though her body has been overcome by the destructive forces of earth life, she knows at this moment the joy of the soul that has triumphed. "Death to her was as natural as birth and as welcome." Her life closed with the same abiding faith in life eternal that has always characterized her living. "Oh, how I wish," she said, "I had the power and could make others understand the beauties of the most beautiful thing in the world—our Gospel." She went with the song in her heart, "God is good."