'"A Woman's Best Years"' Achsa E. Paxman Relief Society General Board Member IN W. Beren Wolfe's book, A Woman's Best Years, he advises, "Make it your business to read at leat one good magazine and one good book every month. You can do this by devoting the last fifteen minutes of every day, just before you go to bed, to reading." The women of Relief Society have exhibited an eagerness for knowledge by their interest in the educational program given each week at Relief Society meetings. Many of the women read the lessons, the Magazine, the books of the literature course, and other outlined material. However, much improvement can still be made in planning to read something fine each day. A recent comment was made that it is surprising that adults read as little as they do. A survey reported at the Brigham Young University Leadership Week, 1941, showed that only one out of four people read a book during their lifetime, college students drop a great many studies which they were once interested in, and most people do not try to acquire knowledge by reading current events about our world. "The Glory of God is intelligence" has been quoted many times. The people of our Church and state have been impressed with the importance of acquiring knowledge, and as a result our state has a high educational rating. Statistics show that Utah has more college students per capita than any state in the nation. Utah lacks a fraction of one percent in having the highest percentage of high school students per capita, two states exceed her. E. L. Thorndike recently analyzed the number of eminent scientists listed in Who's Who. He found that Utah ranked first, for Utah had the largest percentage of native sons named of any state in the Union. Mr. Wolfe emphasizes the importance of reading and advises women to develop the quality of imagination. "The most important thing that you must do in order to acquire imagination is to expose yourself to other people's ideas, and try to apply them to your own life. One of the best ways of doing this is to read the books of the great thinkers and writers who see life more clearly than we ordinary people. If you want to be well beloved, if you want people to consider you the life of the party, then you must give up old bromides that you have learned as a child and put yourself in touch with the thoughts and ideas of the great spirits of all times." Managing a home requires skill and responsibility. Every woman needs outside information and inspiration to assist her in performing her homemaking profession. "A woman who knows what is happening in Central Europe as well as what is happening in her pantry; a woman who has read Research Bulletin of National Education Association. Page 467 468 Thomas Mann as well as her morning newspaper; a woman who interests herself in the tremendous problems of work, education, distribution, and consumption in this most interesting of all ages, that woman is not going to get herself into a panic because she has discovered another gray hair at her temples." We are frequently reminded of the great amount of time that is wasted by both young and old, that time is more valuable than money, but that lack of planning and poor judgment in choosing makes it impossible to accomplish the things that bring the greatest recompense. Mr. Wolfe warns us against to much detail. "Do not waste your time trying to have your home perfectly clean, or your children perfectly educated, or your dress perfectly sewn. 'Too much attention to detail blinds you to the great moments of life. Do not be the kind of woman who is so busy counting trees that she doesn't know she is in the forest." OCCASIONALLY Relief Society officers have expressed concern because of the sensitiveness of some of their members who take offense easily or are fearful lest they make mistakes or cannot perform an assignment as perfectly as someone else. In A Woman's Best Years, we read: "Much of the unhappiness in the world is due to the fact that people do not understand each other. Every human being, without exception, suffers from a sense of inferiority. It makes no difference whether that human being is man or woman, rich or poor, educated or ignorant. Every human being 

 

 believes that his sense of inferiority is the only one that exists in the world, and he, therefore, attempts to prevent other people from finding out how insignificant he really feels he is. Knowing that everybody in the world feels inferior and that every one is in the same boat with yourself, you can make yourself loved by everybody by behaving in such a manner that all the people with whom you come in contact will feel a sense of poise and security in your presence. You can begin by praising them for little things which you notice they do. This implies that you will have to sharpen your vision for details and look for opportunities to be helpful." Go out of your way every day to make one person, preferably a person not in your own family, feel that the world is a better place to live in. Look for things to appreciate. "If you make your happiness depend on your background, your money, your opportunities, or your education, you are likely to be unhappy for the rest of your life; but if your happiness depends on what you are doing to make the world a more civilized place to live in, then you have happiness always within your grasp." Mr. Wolfe gives many suggestions for the art of staying young which each reader must apply according to her own individual situation. Every woman wants to remain young, young in body and young in spirit. Childhood, adolescence, womanhood, are three decades of preparation. Life comes to its flower in the fourth decade, or after forty, and in the decades beyond unfolds its meaning and value. Youth is not a matter of years, but "A WOMAN'S BEST YEARS" a matter of mental attitudes. The goal of eternal youth is now within the reach of every woman who learns to be the master of her hours and not the victim of her years. "To attempt to maintain the pitch of youth is folly and ignorance. Go to your doctor and make it a rule to be examined once a year after you are thirty-five. Follow his suggestions and don't let any physical weakness cripple your activity or cloud your mind. "The best investment for middle age is a wide horizon of interest, emotional vitality and_ elasticity, broad social activities, and a career of service to your fellowmen." Our Church provides all of these if we will let it. We have many opportunities for mental improvement, service to our fellowmen, social activities, and for making right decisions by keeping faith in God and in the ultimate triumph of right. All of these advantages help us to gain confidence and self-respect. "In order to build up your 469 self-respect, you must do one thing every day that makes you mote responsible, that makes you a better participant in, and a greater contributor to, the life around you. "Give service, make your contribution to mankind and you will never suffer from insults or discriminations or petty disappointments. Always have so much work planned ahead that any interruption or disappointment will simply leave you free to accomplish something that you have been wanting to do for a long time. "You must accept the challenge of the years. Face them with open eyes and courage. Know yourself, your assets, your limitations, your special powers, and your hidden weaknesses. 'Then you can meet these problems with poise and serenity and say with Robert Browning: "Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be, The last of life, for which the first was made.'