Summary Of Reports By Returned Relief Society Mission Presidents (Relief Society General Conference, Officers' Meeting, April 2, 1941 Our Lives?The Greatest Sermon Mima M. Broadbent, Former President, North Central States Mission Relief Society OUR beloved apostle, Melvin J. Ballard, said, ""The greatest sermon any of us will ever preach will be the sermon of our lives." This is true, and there is no time or place in the lives of Latter-day Saint women when this cannot be done ? not what we say, not what we profess, but what we do is the thing that counts in actual life. I am grateful to my Heavenly Father for having had the privilege of serving in the North Central States Mission among a choice people and among splendid missionaries. For nearly three and one-half years it was my privilege and joy to welcome into this mission the missionaries? your sons and daughters. They came, as you well know, from every walk of life, and no doubt the majority of them had been reared from infancy with the thought that some day they would fulfill a mission. The rapid development which came to them when they put themselves in tune with their Heavenly Father and became fully sensitive of His spirit, was nothing short of miraculous. If I were to be asked the question, "What would you desire most that your child possess in life?" I would unhesitatingly answer, "A living, active testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ as restored by the Prophet Page 484 Joseph Smith and as taught by our inspired leaders today." Why would I desire that? Because I know that my child would have high ideals and a high standard of life, as well as a means and method by which those ideals and standards might be reached. A testimony expressed in words is not enough?it must be lived. I am of the opinion that we have no stronger testimony than our actions show. My daily life is my testimony; having a knowledge points the way, but putting that knowledge into practice is what counts. In these days of war, famine, and chaotic conditions, with unrest everywhere, all people are striving for some means by which to bring peace. Our leaders have warned us and re-warned us that there is but one path of safety for the Latter-day Saints and mankind throughout the world, and that is the path that is marked out by the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is not a testimony, it is not a marvelous manifestation, it is not knowing that Jesus is the Christ or that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God that will save you and me, but it is keeping the commandments of God, living each day the life of a Latter-day Saint, that will bring us individually through in safety. The Lord has said, "I, the Lord, am bound when RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." (Doc. And Cov. 82:10) The missionaries and Saints in our mission have had many faithpromoting experiences. At one time, we were entering the Canadian part of our mission, and the agent in charge, upon being told that we were Latter-day Saints, made this comment, "The cleanest, dearest buddy that I had in the World War was a Mormon boy. I love him and respect him with all my heart. Any courtesy I may extend to a member of his Church will be a real pleasure." The example which this Mormon boy had set had lived and become effective. One of our sisters had made arrangements to be taken care of in a maternity hospital. She made the request that she be not placed in a ward with patients who smoked, and the request was granted. In due time the baby arrived, and the sister 485 was placed in a private room. The day before she was released from the hospital, the nurse in charge paid her a visit. She said, "The reason you are here in this room is that out of the forty-two mothers who are in this hospital, you are the only one who does not smoke. Why they do it is more than I can explain. How is it that you do not smoke?" Then our member had the opportunity of explaining, in part at least, the Word of Wisdom. Later our missionaries followed up this conversation and the nurse became a baptized members of the Church? all because one little woman preached a sermon in action. It matters not where we are, among strange or familiar people, at home or abroad, I know beyond the shadow of a doubt that the most effective method, the most divine method of preaching this Gospel is by example.