\ Social Science Foundations Of Successful Marriage Lesson 1 What It Means To Be Successfully Married (Tuesday, October 28, 1941) Objective: To develop the thought that happiness is the measure of successful marriage, and by a review of past lessons and a preview of those to come to suggest MARRIAGE is the common experience of mankind. Each of us either has been, or will likely be, a member of two different families in his lifetime?the first as a child, the second as a parent. Marriage is an essential part of our total life, and we are bound by its influence at all times, from birth until death, and even after. If we look backward we see the marriages of our forefathers which made us possible, and if we look ahead we see our own marriage relationships which hold the keys to progression and joy throughout eternity. This is likely so because God intended it that way. After the creation of man, He said, " It is not good that man should be alone," and so He created woman to be man's "helpmeet" and companion.. Associations between men and women on this earth have always been sought after, and they have often resulted in some of the most lofty and sublime joys that it is possible for humans to obtain. It is natural for men and women to be attracted to each other and to seek the normal relationships of marriage and family life. It is natural also for marriage and family life, when properly conducted, to bring genuine ?satisfaction, happiness, and joy to those who participate. Page 500 Successful Marriage What does it mean to be successfully married? We have already hinted at the answer: a successful marriage is one that is truly happy. "Man is that he might have joy." The very purpose of life is the attainment of happiness, or joy. All of man's struggles are built around his hope for happiness, and the degree of happiness he obtains is the best measure we have of the success or failure of his efforts. To be successfully married, then, means to be happily married. But happiness is'a relative thing; therefore, he who is most happy may be said to be most successful. Pleasure of a personal or selfish sort often deprives one of a higher happiness or joy and thus leads to failure. Liquor, for example, though it may give passing pleasure to the one who drinks, usually makes for unhappiness in the home. Happiness begins with self-control. Furthermore, the pursuit of happiness is a cooperative adventure. No one can be happy alone. A successful family is one in which all members are privileged to share in the common bond of happiness, and each is able to reinforce the individual happiness of each of the others. But happiness comes from growth and the opportunity for growth. No some of the things necessary to the attainment of this goal.