[Vol53 | September 1966 | Page 711 | The Home | Cultural Refinement — No | ]
[Cultural Refinement — No]

It follows: 


 "Daily Health Bread'"' Mrs. Lillian Keyser, Iowa City, Iowa 1 restful night of sleep 1 or more pleasant "good mornings" (depending on number of people present) 3 sensible meals—one at the start, the other two as needed 1 goal—necessary ingredient, but varies with the day of the week and the "temperature" of the household... 1 or more services for someone else (several are often needed and give satisfactory results—too many can ruin the batch) 1 or more pleasant conversations (phone call, letter or stimulating reading may be substituted) a dash of spice—taken or given by word of mouth or in book form a generous measure of each of the following: sense of humor, enthusiasm, courage, kindness, unselfishness, understanding, forgiveness, and integrity. These ingredients are the leavening agents and also what holds the loaf together. However, the next ingredient is the most important of all Love—This cannot be measured, but add a little every hour. This is what gives the flavor, shape, size and quality. Without this ingredient, your bread will be a failure. Thanksgiving—This is the catalyst that speeds the action of all the ingredients and makes them effective. 1 hour of relaxation—while it cools. Interesting additions: Children, pets, guests, relatives, crafts, clubs, hobbies, church and comntunity services, etc. Add separately or in various combinations. Too many will cause the loaf to grow beyond your control—and your digestion. Note: Sniffles, accidents, gossip, self-pity, etc., spoil the shape and flavor of the loaf. Avoid if possible. 712 Note: Some of the necessary ingredients are hard to find, some are hard to keep. Don't worry. Use what you have on hand and keep looking for the other ingredients. You are the maker of the loaf and you determine what you and your household shall be fed. (Reprinted by Permission of Good Housekeeping Magazine). It is heartening that there are women in the world today who have this concept of homemaking. SUMMARY '"'Wear yet a precious jewel" (Shakespeare) of learning; evaluate the results often—do not expect perfection every time in everything (unless, of course, you can isolate yourself in a mythical "'nice safe cage''); exercise patience; try to keep your sense of humor; bequeath to yourself that one hour of relaxation daily; practice empathetic understanding of your family always. Again—yours is a divine appointment by our Heavenly Father. You can make your home a happy place—an earlier heaven. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT 1. What are the areas or specific problems in homemaking education in which you personally need the most help? List these on a piece of paper with your plans for solving them during the new year. Some may be solved, of course, in homemaking meeting. 2. Relate the various ingredients of the Daily Health Bread to you and your home. Be objective. Which ones might you choose for emphasis which you feel would result in a happier home? List these; consult the list each day or two; work conscientiously to incorporate them into your daily life.