[Vol55 | August 1968 | Page 596 | General Feature | The Cast-on Bootee Dorothy | F. Condry]
The Cast-on Bootie Dorothy F. Condry « The new year had started out beautifully. Looking out my window Monday morning, while preparing to go to the office, I discovered a blanket of white had been neatly spread as J had slept. Since it was the middle of January, this wasn't exactly a surprise, and it certainly seemed more appropriate than yesterday's rain. As I headed for the car, my boots made neat tracks behind me. The air was brisk, so I quickened my pace. Whoosh! My left foot slid in front, and my right foot buckled under me, as I. Went down. A sheet of ice was neatly hidden under the beguiling snow. The fur-lined boot cushioned my fall, but my leg immediately 596 rebelled at the unaccustomed forty-five degree angle. After a trip to the hospital, I found myself encumbered with a hard, white, toeless boot, sporting a_ brightly-colored cover tied over my toes. The nurse had given me my choice from a box full of "toe caps" crocheted for them by an old lady, she had said. I had chosen one in various shades _of pink. Pink is such a cheerful color, and my spirits needed a lift, as I contemplated being grounded for six weeks. The next day as I lay staring at my disabled foot, it suddenly struck me. Instead of making bootees for my _ grandchildren, here I was wearing one—a "Cast- on Bootee!" After I had had a good chuckle over my little joke, I remembered the bag of leftover yarns from sweaters and afghans I had made through the years. A perfect way to use these up, I thought, as I hobbled over to the dresser and got out the crochet hook and yarns. I would make a bootee in every color of the rainbow and put on a different one every day in the week. The old lady had used a very simple pattern which I found easy to follow. After making a chain of ten stitches, I went back over it with single crochet, and continued around and around, increasing one stitch at each end until I had finished nine rounds. Then I continued for another eight rows, increasing one stitch at each end of every other row. Midway between the ends, on the last round, I skipped two stitches in the previous row, The Cast-on Bootee made four chain stitches, for a loop, and continued to the end of the row. At that point, I made a long chain of 100 stitches, then turned and started back, joining every fourth stitch until I got back to the bootee. Continuing around the top with single crochet, I made another long double chain at the other side. Then, working across the front edge and outlining the open space in the center front with single crochet stitches, I worked to the far side of the top, where I cut the yarn and worked the tail end back under to finish off. Slipping the bootee over the toes on my right foot, I brought the long ties back behind the heel of the cast, around in front, looping one tie through the open center space, and made a bow on top of my foot. It really made quite an attractive bootee. A When I am gone.. MY FATHER'S WATCH { opened the ornate dresser drawer And, after many years, again I saw my father's gold, initialed watch, Saw it with sudden, aching pain. I saw his thoughtful brow as each night He reached to wind the clock upon the wall, Mating the hands with those upon his watch, That moved in rhythm summer, spring, and fall. Once more, I seemed to hear its ticking Against my ear, held within his hand, As firm and steady as the wheels that he Showed to me though I did not understand. The stem wound now the same as in the past, The sound began as though long over-due, Telling of time that shall go on and on,. (as he) and you.