[Vol55 | August 1968 | Page 595 | General Feature | A Letter to My Daughter | Jane Scott]
Cook Grace Tuttle i I > i A Ii etter To My Daughter Jane Scott Good Morning My Daughter: Time has moved along and distance is between us: ' would like to hold you and tell how much I love you. I look at your picture and see my precious child grown up and moving in a world of adults. It fills my heart with joy that you have decided to remember the things that you were taught in the early days of your life, regarding prayer and knowing that you have a Heavenly Father, as well as an earthly one to call on in your time of need. We can furnish the means by which you can live physically better and even give a limited amount of advice and encouragement. But because we do not live close enough to your thoughts and feelings, you can turn to the one who knows your every thought and emotion. You can gain strength to choose between good and evil and know that growth comes by this choice. Happiness is what we wish for you, but do you know the difference between happiness and joy? Do you seek and find that joy is wonderful, and yet hard to hold on to? Joy is what has been promised to us, and I do believe that we can gain more and longer times of joy by just being at peace with ourselves. Do you have such moments, too? Peace is a quietness within and acceptance of things as they are without fighting and struggling against what happens to us. Ceasing to fight does not mean that we give in to evil or wrong, but know things as they are and move around them. It is like moving down a road and seeing a mud puddle. If you have considered what the mud will do to your new shoes or feet, then you will go around it or jump over it. You have acknowledged that the mud is there, but you have decided on how to meet it. So it is with so many of the temptations that we face in life. Jesus taught us how to recognize many of these pitfalls, and it is up to us to recognize them and to pray for discernment of what to do about them. Thus we find joy and happiness. Ah, how I have gone on, I know that you are wondering what Cory is doing. He is deep in school, all those things that intrigue him: music, band, electricity, and English. He is thinking of giving up his paper route as he has been asked to work for a couple of hours after school and Saturday. He has managed to buy all his school supplies and clothes. Isn't that something to be excited about? We are very proud of him. He is displaying such a growth and development for his age. Bless him. We are well and busy and love you all so much. Write when you can find the time and are anxious about home.