[Vol55 | August 1968 | Page 584 | General Feature | Editorial Obedience in Depth | Marianne C. Sharp]
EDITORIAL = 'Obedience is better than sacrifice."" Obedience is doing as directed. Obedience is heaven's first law. Obedience is basic to law and order. In a Latter-day Saint home, the virtues of obedience are taught from childhood. To see a child or a teen-ager obey his parents' admonitions is a source of gratification and thankfulness to those responsible for the child's welfare. One may view obedience as doing, however, in addition to performing, there is an inner feeling of obedience one may or may not experience as she outwardly complies. The action and spirit may be identical—both may be obedient or the outward obedience may mask a rebellion within. A child may obediently go to bed while hiding his resentment that his brother does not have to go first. Is outward obedience alone counted as obedience, or must the doing and motivation both be in a spirit of obedience to be counted as obedience? The Lord has said '''.. For the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart.'' (I Samuel N6?7.) Obedience)! n Depth When Solomon prayed for an understanding heart from the Lord, he was certainly not being satisfied with outward observances only. He also wanted to have the wisdom to search out motives. As a child grows older it becomes increasingly desirable for mothers to look below the outward compliance and seek to understand the feelings of a young person. If there is not obedience on both the action and the spiritual planes, the young may resolve silently, ''I'll do this while I'm home, but I'm certainly not going to do it after I'm on my own.' Resentment may smolder and build up to an explosion when parental restraint is removed, if inner obedience does not accompany the obedient action. As life progresses, those who have directed and guided one leave this life, and one is left to direct oneself in harmony with eternal laws. "Charity never faileth'' stands out as a great beacon to draw all within the warming light of love and to render obedience to it. One may question one's own motives. ''As I serve that sick sister, is the obedience I am giving merely an outward show or am I obedient with a willing, loving spirit?'' This is a question which may plague one. ''Am I making my Church contributions because I am grateful for the opportunity of contributing to the growth of the Church, or am I resentful and think the bishop has asked me to give more than my share?' also may trouble the giver. One needs to search her soul and struggle to make obedience an inward joy and not an outward performance only. In the Passover chamber the Savior promised peace, ''Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you.'' (John 14:27.) Obedience both outward and inward unite the soul in peace. Paul was told by the Savior ''... It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.'' (Acts 9:5.) His soul was not at peace with itself as he persecuted the Christians and obeyed the Pharisaic law; but, once he was obedient to the Savior and true to his teachings, he found that peace that passeth understanding, even as any woman may find it today through full obedience to gospel principles, both in performance and conviction. —M. C. S.