[Vol55 | August 1968 | Page 583 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

She is the wife of the Superintendent of the St. David Schools and mother of ten children. Four of the sons are physicians. Mrs. Dorothy Johnson Bacon, a Latter-day Saint of Hollywood, California, represented her State as Mother of the Year. She is the wife of a doctor and the mother of four children. Mrs. Ora Pate Stewart, Latter-day Saint author, composer, and lecturer, mother of seven children, was runner-up to Mrs. Bacon for the California award. Leah Evans, a dedicated Relief Society worker, was named Washington State Merit Mother, first runner-up to the Washington State Mother of the Year. She is mother of four children. Vanessa and Lynn Redgrave are the daughters of Sir Michael and Lady Redgrave, both distinguished actors who have been married happily for thirty-three years. These sisters and brother Corwin are likewise top-rank actors, and the Redgraves are known as the Royal Family of the Theater in Britain. Franca Falucci, Italian professor of philosophy at the Liceo Classico in Rome, is on the executive board of the Christian Democratic party and president of the women's movement of that party in Italy. On a recent visit to Salt Lake City, Miss Falucci was particularly impressed with the activities of Welfare Square and with the achievements of the Genealogical Society. 583 Volume 55 August 1968 Number 8 ® Belle S. Spafford, President § Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor a Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence }. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson trene W. Buehner lrene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice. C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma A. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C.