[Vol55 | August 1968 | Page 582 | General Feature | The Home Inside and Out Progression Eunice | P. Ravsten]
[The Home Inside and Out Progression Eunice P. Ravsten]

borate. Air travel is common; space is being explored, and with each great ship that launches into the sea of sky, men's aspirations follow. The ancient prophet declared: The chariots shall rage in the streets, they shall justle one against another in the broad ways: they shall seem like torches, they shall run like the lightnings. (Nahum 2:4.) Isaiah asked: "Who are these that fly as a cloud, and as the doves to their windows?" (Isaiah 60:8.) Past and future, memories and dreams are deeded in the present. The urge is upward and onward. The progression of mankind, the children of God, is glorious to contemplate. Men are inspired to become better than they are. As expressed in the thoughts of Emerson, it is a joyful experience which gives a rewarding sense of progression to look always upward to the stars and their vast, eternal significance. Ramona W. Cannon Frances Grant Bennett, daughter of former President Heber J. Grant of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and wife of Senator Wallace F. Bennett of Utah, is author of Glimpses of a Mormon Family (Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City). In this warm and human biography, Mrs. Bennett relates the story of the home life of the Grant family, and the equally interesting account of her husband's family— the Bennetts, well known in the annals of Church and State. A most rewarding feature of the book is the inclusion of many precepts and much wisdom from the words and writings of President Grant. Mrs. Elizabeth Bodine, seventy years old, from Velva, North Dakota, was chosen American Mother of the Year for 1968, in New York City, last May. She its the successful Polish-born mother of eighteen children and a farm wife. She believes that children need tasks to occupy them and teach them responsibility. Mrs. Elsie K. Smith Farnsworth, Beaver, was chosen Utah Mother of the Year, for her "outstanding wisdom and integrity in rearing her family of seven children.'' ''Love and Mutual respect dominated our home,'' Mrs. Farnsworth said in her acceptance speech in the Assembly Hall on Temple Square. Mrs. James A. Kartchner, St. David, Arizona, a Latter-day Saint, was chosen Arizona Mother of the Year.