[Vol55 | August 1968 | Page 619 | Lesson | Spiritual Living The Fruits of Apostasy | Roy W. Doxey]
[Spiritual Living The Fruits of Apostasy Roy W. Doxey]

The Fruits of Apostasy Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C Sections 121:11-25; 123) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman searches her soul to root out any seeds of apostasy, that she may remain true and faithful. INTRODUCTION During the dispensation of the fulness of times, Satan has increased his attempts to destroy the Lord's work because this period of time is destined to be the culminating period when labor for the salvation of men, living and dead, will be accomplished. At the opening of this dispensation when Joseph Smith received the First Vision, Satan's efforts to thwart the work of the Lord were manifest in an attempt to destroy him. (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:13-17.) The wiles of the Adversary have been effective in seducing the unwary. But to entice a covenant son or daughter of God to succumb to his temptations is a great victory; consequently, his efforts are particularly leveled at those who are members of the kingdom of God. NONE EXEMPT High office in the Church does not insure that the seeds of apostasy may not be sown in the person's life. (D&C 20:31-34.) Men who stood with the Prophet Joseph Smith amid hardships and persecution,» subsequently fell away from the Church. The instances are rare, however. 

619 August 1968

 'During a period of persecution in Missouri, when the Prophet and several other leaders were in Liberty Jail on trumped up charges, the Prophet received revelations which are numbered Sections 121, 122, and 123 in the Doctrine and Covenants. (The epistle from which these sections were extracted is found in Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts (2d ed, rev.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1948), Vol. 3, p. 289-305 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC].) Among other things in Section 121, we find the Lord's answer to those who have persecuted the saints, among whom were some apostates. Beginning with verse 11, the revelation reminded the Prophet that the hopes of those who sought to charge him with transgression would be blasted and that their hearts were corrupted and retribution would surely come. (verse 13.) Those who cry against the Lord's anointed do it because they are the servants of sin. (verses 16-17.) To swear falsely against The Lord's anointed ones and to seek to harm them bring the following severe penalties: (1) They shall not have membership in the Church. (2) Their material blessings will diminish. (3) They shall not escape the damnation of hell. (D&C 121:18-23; 124:50.) CAUSE OF APOSTASY It is false to assume that the principles of the gospel are at fault when membersin high places 620 fall away from the Church. Some people ask why the Three Special Witnesses to The Book of Mormon left the Church, since they had such a marvelous experience. The answer is a simple one: they failed to keep the commandments. So it is with people, high or low, who elect to become apostate. There are, however, many things which lead people into dark and forbidden paths. Some of these elements will be mentioned in this lesson with their consequent results, as well as ways to overcome these tendencies. INDICATORS OF APOSTASY To assemble all of the factors which indicate that the seeds of apostasy are gaining ascendancy in one's life, might constitute a long list. Some of these signs may be mentioned briefly from those given by Elder John A. Widtsoe, (Gospel Interpretations, Ist ed.: Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1947, pp. 38-39.) (1) Failure to pray. In order to maintain spiritual communion with the Lord, it is essential that one acknowledge his dependency upon him, express gratitude for blessings received, and seek for wisdom through prayer. The moment one lets other activities or interests interfere with daily, sincere prayer, his faith may be weakened. In ignoring prayer completely, the person places himself in the position desired by the evil one. (Alma 32:8-9; 34:39.) On the other hand, the Lord has said that if we do not observe our prayers we stand for judgment. (D&C _ 68:33.) Class Discussion Why may the failure to pray regularly be a seed of apostasy? (2) Neglecting study of the gospel. To maintain a testimony of the gospel successfully, it is necessary to keep knowledgeable in gospel principles. Faith grows with knowledge. (3) Lessened participation in Church life. The Lord has enjoined upon all to be active in his work. (D&C 38:40.) (4) A feeling of superiority. Personal ambition may lead to a feeling of superiority with possible false interpretation of scripture. The true saint is one who remains humble seeking to learn through - that humility. (D&C 112:10.) (5) Finding fault with other members or with the leadership of the Church. These may lead to apostasy. This cause for apostasy is probably one of the most common. RECOGNIZABLE INDICATORS In the words of Elder Widtsoe: The dying testimony is easily recognized. The organizations and practices of the Church are ignored; the radio [television] takes the place of the sacrament meeting; golf or motion pictures, the Sunday worship; the cup of coffee, instead of the Word of Wisdom; the cold, selfish hand instead of helpfulness, charity for the poor, and the payment of tithing. Soon, the testimony is gone, and the former possessor walks about, somewhat sour and discontented, and always in his heart, unhappy. He has lost his most precious possession, and has found nothing to replace it. He has lost inward freedom, the gift of obedience to law. (Gospel Interpretations, p. 39.) Class Discussion A person's testimony is usually lost by degrees. BE NOT DECEIVED There is no happiness in losing one's most valued possession. When one remembers that losses in this life bring sorrow and want, Lesson Department how much more serious is the loss of an eternity of happiness. To insure against this possibility for those who would hearken to this word, very early in the dispensation the Lord gave counsel to the members of the Church whereby they might not be deceived by the evil one. The following categories— taken chronologically from the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants—give some counsel which, if obeyed, will keep the members of the Church from being deceived: (1) Grow in perfection. (2) Accept the duties of membership in the Church. (3) Obey appointed leaders. (4) Seek the gifts of the Holy Ghost. (5) Study the scriptures. (6) Obey Church regulations. (7) Keep the Sabbath day holy. (8) Be obedient to health and financial laws. GROW IN PERFECTION When the Latter-day Saint resolves to better his life, he begins to fulfill his covenants with the Lord. "Therefore I would that ye should be perfect even as I, or your Father who is in heaven is perfect" (38 Nephi 12:48.) The ultimate goal is attainable by constant application of the principles of truth. A list of virtues which might be used to begin, today, in perfecting one's life, is found in the revelation directed to Joseph Smith, Sr. (D&C 4:5-6.) Class Discussion Opposite each virtue mentioned in Section 4, place its antonym and consider wherein you need improvement. If, for example, you lack humility, seek ways in which you can develop this virtue. 

621 August 1968

 ACCEPT DUTIES Among the duties of membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the partaking of the sacrament is most important. The Lord has said that we may have his Spirit with us provided we partake of it worthily. (D&C 20:77, 79.) If we enjoy the influence of the Holy Ghost, it will be the means of keeping us on the path to eternal life. (D&C 20:69.) Closely associated with the partaking of the sacrament, is the opportunity to assemble with other saints in meetings so that the strength of the group will be received by the individual. The Lord told the saints in Kirtland, Ohio, to "assemble yourselves together to agree upon my word." (Ibid., 41:2.) If one desires to resist temptation and keep on the narrow path to salvation, one of the best ways is to be a regular attender at appointed meetings. Class Discussion Name some ways in which the members of the Church are helped from being deceived by attending appointed meetings. OBEY LEADERSHIP Obedience to those who preside over the Church is a certain way to keep from being deceived. (D&C 43:3-7;. 124:45-46.) The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that when a person begins to criticize the leaders over him, and considers that he alone is right, then that person is on the road to apostasy. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, 9th printing: Salt Lake City: The Deseret News Press, 1956, pp. 156-7.) 622 THE GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT Because there are "doctrines of devils, or the commandments of men..." (D&C 46:7) taught in the world, the Lord revealed that in order that his people might not be deceived, they should seek for the gifts of the Holy Ghost. (D&C 46:8.) The gifts shown in the revelation are given to those who love the Lord and diligently seek to keep his commandments. (lbid., 46:9-26.) STUDY THE SCRIPTURES The Doctrine and Covenants sets forth the teachings of the gospel in plainness. Often these teachings were given in response to a question or a situation. One revelation containing doctrinal teachings which correct false teachings is Section 49. It is true that the student of the scriptures is able to discriminate between truth and error because he has not only learned the principles of the gospel, but he has also learned fundamental teachings which point the way to obtaining the answer to the problem. We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts: Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. (2 Peter 1:19-21.) ".. No prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation." (2 Peter 1:20.) There is official interpretation of the doctrines and standards of the Church, and this knowledge comes from the prophets, seers, and revelators. (President Stephen L Richards, Conference Report, October 1951, pp. 116-117.) The revealed word of the Lord is: "And whoso treasureth up my word, shall not be deceived...." (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1:37.) OBEY CHURCH REGULATIONS One of the most powerful means of deception is to teach false doctrines and disobedience to the known rules of the Church. Such a condition existed in the early part of the dispensation, and it was revealed that if a person will obey the ordinances and the rules and regulations of the gospel, he will be accepted of God. (D&C 52:14-16.) THE SABBATH DAY. A commandment which seems to be ignored widely is observance of the Sabbath day. It is inconsistent to believe that disobedience to the laws regarding the Sabbath day will not take its toll of the faith of the member of the Church. The commandment regarding the holy day requires devotion to the Lord. (D&C 59:9, 14; 68:29.) The Spirit of the Lord. Is enjoyed when we keep all the commandments., Not only is: faithful devotion required for the covenant people of the Lord on the Sabbath day, but upon all days. (Ibid., 59:11, a) HEALTH AND FINANCIAL LAWS On February 27, 1833, the laws of health known as the Word of Wisdom were made Lesson Department known. This commandment to observe certain health laws and to desist from partaking of things contrary to health, is a spiritual law. Probably the most damaging effects of breaking the Word of Wisdom are spiritual. In order to assist Latter-day Saints to have the Spirit of the Lord with them, the Lord gave this commandment and warned them against the evils and designs of those who would encourage them to break this law. (D&C 89:4.) Observance of this law brings increased faith and the development of more spiritual power and wisdom. The keeping of the law of tithing is a bulwark against the darts of the Adversary. When one pays one-tenth of his increase to the Lord, he is seeking to sanctify himself and his material possessions. IMPLEMENTATION i In a period when gospel teachings are being challenged by "new ideas," there is greater need to take inventory of one's inclinations to accept notions which are contrary to accepted gospel principles. The increase in television and radio propaganda and publications of all sorts, has created a condition where it is necessary that the member of the Church be better prepared to distinguish between the genuine and the spurious. Practices should be encouraged in one's life which keep faith at a high level, while ideas and activities which run counter to gospel principles should be shunned. The Lord has provided sufficient opportunities for the saints 

623 August 1968

 to remain faithful by revealing keys against being deceived, which, if applied, will help them to keep the faith. Constant study of the scriptures and their application in daily life, are the keystones of success in eliminating tendencies to apostasy. Important in accomplishing this purpose is to give heed to the Holy Spirit within, and to live so that the blessing of possessing the Holy Spirit may be continued.