[Vol55 | August 1968 | Page 564 | Special Feature | Latter-day Saint Women and the Nursing Profession Marian | W. Jensen]
Mary Ann Adams Lowestoft, Suffolk, England Latter-day Saint Women and the Nursing Profession y al aly anil # On the banks of the Chariton River in Iowa, a company of covered wagons rumbled along at a slow but steady pace. "Now, Sister Zina," said the captain of the company, "you go just as long as you can. When you say stop, we'll halt." And thus this Mormon mother gave birth to her first child. The saints had crossed the icy Mississippi River in the cold of February. They hastily erected some tents, and in the cold and damp of that first night, nine babies were born. There were not enough blankets, not enough medical facilities, and there was _ not enough food. As the encampments spread out along the trail, we read from one diary of tragedy—the death of twenty people from scurvy, forty-five dead of malaria, and more than one hundred fifty babies dead from infantile diarrhea. This occurred in one small encampment! The Prophet Joseph Smith had predicted that the suffering of the saints would be almost unbearable at times. His prediction proved true. When the first company of pioneers entered the Salt Lake Valley in 1847, they were one hundred forty-eight in number. The settlers swelled in such numbers, however, that, by 1850, there were over eleven thousand inhabitants in Salt Lake County alone. Yet, among this large and growing population, there was, apparently, not a single graduate of a regular medical college in the entire area! It is well known that the Mormons were a child-bearing people, and also that they were trained in assisting one another. When a Mormon midwife received three dollars for her skill in assisting with the birth of a baby, she returned to her own family feeling well paid for her services. One such midwife, Patty Sessions, recorded that she helped deliver over 3,977 babies. Of these deliveries, she reports having trouble with only two of them! Another prominent midwife, Zina D. H. Young, a wife of President Brigham Young, delivered over fifty' of his children. She was loved not only for her needed skill, but for her kindness and_ loving temperament. L. D. S. Women and the Nursing Profession Still, despite the heroic services of the many Mormon midwives, the problems of bearing children became "almost unbearable." Many mothers lay in bed for months after delivery, deliriously ill with raging temperatures or "child-bed fever." Other mothers successfully recovered from the delivery only to lose their child or children from the diseases of the day—typhoid, scarlet fever, diptheria, and, most common of all, infantile diarrhea. The infant mortality rate was high—too high. In one particular instance forty-nine per cent of the total deaths came to children under two years of age. The story of infant mortality is best told in the words of a Mormon heroine, Aurelia Spencer Rogers. She wrote: My tenth child, which we named William, was born on the 31st of May, 1871, and only lived until the 17th of August, then died of cholera infantum. I had doted so much on this child, and now he was taken; this making three children that I had lost in succession. Of my ten children only five remained. It seemed as if my last hope was gone... I almost lost faith in God... I... Doubted the existence of a Supreme Being. As President Brigham Young traveled from stake to stake, he must have been deeply concerned over the sorrows of these pioneer mothers. He must have been convinced that this situation had to be overcome. Probably the way was with the newly advancing profession of medicine. During this time of sorrow President Brigham Young gave several discourses in the Tabernacle. He aroused the enthusiasm of many women. They decided to study medicine. 

565 August 1968

 Among his listeners was one hardy mother, Romania Pratt. In order for her to attend medical school in the East, she sold her coveted piano (the first in Utah), and she and her husband sold their home. Romania's devoted mother agreed to care for their children. For two years Romania studied in the East, and, in 1877, graduated from the Women's Medical College in Philadelphia with a degree of Doctor of Medicine. She was the first Utah woman to have this medical degree. She returned to her home State where she obtained a fine reputation in obstetrics, both as a teacher and as a practitioner. Dr. Pratt had paved the way for other Utah women to gain medical educations. Ellis Shipp, Margaret Shipp Roberts, Jane Skolfield, and Martha Hughes Cannon were some of the daring Mormon mothers who also gained medical degrees. After two or more years of study in the East, and often at great financial sacrifice, these women returned to Utah armed with knowledge and skill. This medical armor proved effective in the war against the diseases of the day. "Childbed fever" (caused by a streptococcus bacteria) was eliminated. The infantile diarrhea (also of bacterial origin) was largely erased. The epidemics of diptheria and typhoid were largely controlled. The infant mortality rate dropped dramaticallv. These women not only practiced medicine, but they also taught. Through the efforts of Dr. Ellis Shipp, nursing classes were conducted throughout the State. Standards of sanitation and nutrition were improved. She 566 and her physician husband began publishing, in 1888, a monthly medical journal, The Salt Lake Sanitarian, for lay citizens of the State. In The Sanitarian mothers were instructed in better methods of infant care, with current advice from leading doctors of the day. This publication was an ambitious undertaking and in advance of its time, for it was not until six years later that a book on this subject was published nationally called The Care and Feeding of Children, by L. Emmett Holt. Thanks to medical advances remarkable progress had been made. By about 1950 only one out of every thirty-three babies died before the end of the first year. These gains were dramatic. Still, the fight was not yet won. There were still mountains to climb, oceans to cross, and frontiers to conquer. The Mormon population was once largely encompassed in the State of Utah and adjacent areas. It now spreads across fifty States, six continents, and to the isles of the sea. Today many Latter-day Saint women give birth to their children away from their home States and away from the help of their mothers or relatives. True, the initial care given to mothers today in modern hospitals is superior care; nevertheless, for most women childbirth still has associated with it some real problems. A new mother returning home from the hospital after a short two to three-day stay desperately needs help—despite all the excellent hospital care she has received. When a mother comes home from a hospital today, the sisters in the ward give willingly of their talents in the preparation of food and in child care. But if a sister is seriously ill or convalescing from an operation, she may need professionally trained help. She 'may require the skill of a registered nurse. Other sisters in the ward assist in ways in which they are able, but they frequently lack the professional knowledge to deal with bacteriological or medical problems. The need for professional training is great. Today, there are places where this training can be obtained as there never was before available in the history of the world. A young girl or a mature woman who wishes to obtain this training need not travel to Philadelphia or to New York. If financially able, she can attend Brigham Young University's School of Nursing and, with determination and persistence, she can graduate as a registered nurse. If she cannot afford going away to school, or if there are other real deterrents, she can study in any accredited nursing school near her L. D. S. Women and the Nursing Profession After graduation, she can find a nursing position in almost any area of the world. She will help fill an acute nursing shortage. If, however, in the course of completing her training, she meets a young man who wins her heart, she can use her newly acquired nursing skill in caring for her own little brood, and in assisting in the ward in which she resides. If she graduates in nursing aS a mature woman, whose children are grown, she can use her newly found time to good advantage in either part or fulltime nursing positions. She need not feel now that her children have gone, that she is no longer needed. For she is needed—by many. As the Latter-day Saint women of the pioneer days responded to fill the needs of their day, so do Latter-day Saint women of today respond to the needs of our generation. The Latter-day Saint philosophy teaches growing, learning, and giving. Nursing involves all three. Nursing—a noble profeshome. WAYFARER If only there were maps to help A wayfarer of the mind, Down chartless seas of timelessness, His journeyings would wind. Each must his own route fathom To the center of his being Where his own island of serenity Awaits perceptive seeing. —Gladys Hesser Burnham sion. Investigate it! 567 Literary Contest Announcements 1968 The Relief Society Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief 7 Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of wo
