[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | May | Issue: 8 | Title: PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
HER BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
	“Growing old gracefully” may well be
applied to our President of the Relief Socie-
ty, there is not time or space to tell all the
reasons why this saying is applicable, but if
one looks at her as she mingles in society or
as she moves about in her own home, and
more especially in the Temple, one cannot
but feel that she is a good illustration of the
poem given above.

[Column 2]
	Among the Latter-day Saint women, who 
are a connecting link between the past and
the present, from the days of the Prophet
Joseph Smith down to our own time, but
few remain. Foremost of the illustrious few,
we are proud and happy to mention Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith, whose birthday anni-
versary was recently celebrated with appro-
priate honors and the respect befitting her po-
sition as a Mother in Israel; one indeed, who
has ministered scores of years in holy places,
and officiated in sacred ordinances, to many
hundreds of the Daughters of Zion.
	Sister Smith holds the position of General
President of the Relief Society of the Church,
an organization founded by President Joseph
Smith himself sixty-seven years ago in the
city of Nauvoo—Illinois, (she became a 
member on the first day) and which Society
 has reached out into all countries where the
Gospel tidings have been carried and women
converted thereto.
	Through the systematic correllation of its
branches, women have been able to regulate
the principle of giving charity, and doing ac-
tive philanthropic work for the betterment
and uplifting of all the members of this So-
ciety everywhere and for others outside; re-
lieving both temporal and spiritual needs in
an unobtrusive and dignified way, and pro-
moting moral and educational progress
among those whose opportunities had been
limited, along these lines of advancement;
often owing to their surroundings and en-
vironments.
	Sister Smith has not only been at the head
of great public movements and benefits, both
presiding and assisting in managing, but she
has always been a delightful home-maker;
industrious, an early riser, economical, thrifty
even resourceful; and in the best sense
motherly.
	Her life has not been free from thorns and
briers, yet it has really been very beautiful
in many ways, and she has borne herself
heroically, when tried as by fire, and her 
faith has never wavered.
	Her illustrious husband Hon. George A.
Smith, cousin of the Prophet, and one of the 
most distinguished men in the Church, died 
over thirty years ago.
	A few years after his demise she built a
smaller home near the Temple and has re-
sided there permanently ever since.
	Although it is not a large or “stately man-
sion” she entertains her friends hospitably
and with the most cordial good cheer, for
she is a Southerner to the heart’s core, and
proud of her dear old Virginia birthplace.
	She has always cultivated flowers and her
neat, white cottage with green shutters, and
yard with its lilacs, roses, trailing myrtle,
holly-hocks, lackspur and other old-fashioned
flowering plants and shrubs are the admira-
tion of her friends, and the passers by, and
give a sort of tone to the dwelling place in-
dicative of peace and restfulness.
	However we are not giving our readers a
descriptive narrative or a story of this famous
woman, who has lived as long, and seen
so much, and associated with so many great
men and women, but only wish to tell about 
her eighty-seventh birthday anniversary.
	The lady in question gave a reception at

[Column 3]
her residence on Monday, May 3, 1909, from
2 p. m. to 8 p. m. to which she invited her
relatives, friends and co-workers. The parlor
and other rooms were artistically decorated
with flowers and ferns etc., festooned with
ribbons as for a bride; pretty vases and
bowls were filled with fragrant blossoms,
tastefully arranged, and all was done in the
most perfect harmony of color.
	Sister Smith wore with becoming grace,
an elegant, white, homemade silk dress,
with exquisite fine lace at the neck and 
wrists, and a very fine white lace scarf over
her beautiful soft white hair; altogether she
presented a queenly appearance, as she sat
in state, to receive her guests. She was as-
sisted in receiving by her only daughter Mrs.
Clarence E. Merrill, and Mrs. Susan E. Smith;
her charming and attractive grand-daughters
Mrs. David Allen, Mrs. George A. Horne,
Mrs. Ben. E. Lloyd, Mrs. Joseph Fisher,
Mrs. Stephen L. Richards, courteously meet-
ing the guests doing the honors and deftly
dispensing light refreshments to the nume-
rous callers, who came to offer congratula-
tions to the reverend hostess, on this auspi-
cious occasion; and to wish her continued
health, happiness, prosperity and future use-
fulness, and activity, as long as life seemed
desirable to her. Many of her friends brought
bouquets, pretty books and a variety of gifts,
remembrances, and messages, tokens of love
and esteem.
	During the entire afternoon until eight
o’clock in the evening Sister Smith was
shaking hands and greeting her guests, in
the most kindly and gracious way.
	Among the distinguished callers were Pre-
sident Joseph F. Smith, President John R.
Winder (who is near the same age as the 
lady herself) and President Anthon H. Lund,
also the venerable Patriarch John Smith,
and other notable people from far and near,
about two hundred in all, and every one 
seemed delighted to show honor and rever-
ence to the beloved woman leader.
	During the day a telegram of loving con-
gratulations and good wishes was received
from Los Angeles, California, signed John
Henry Smith, George Albert Smith, John and
Lucy Smith Acomb.
	The following day the General Board of
the Relief Society, according to a previous
arrangement, gave a sort of informal
but most delightful banquet at the home of
their president at three o’clock Tuesday,
May 4, 1909.
	A competent committee had the affair in
hand, to whom much credit is due for its
enjoyment and success. Consent of the
hostess having been given, the committee
took possession inside the cottage, and
made the needful preparations. Thereupon
the other members of the Board were re-
lieved of anxiety. The President, in her
pretty white costume, received all the mem-
bers with her sweetest smiles, and cordially
welcomed them to the home they had in-
vaded. The table looked very inviting with
its snowy linen napery, and elegant old-
fashioned china dinner-set and other rare
old plates; platters, bowls, etc., of antique
style, but the most interesting of all was the
President herself the Guest of Honor.


[Column 1]
	Everything had been done beforehand
with a view to sociability, and seated at
the head of the table was the reverend lady
we had gathered to honor while partaking
of the feast. On her right her counselor
Ida Smoot Dusenberry was seated, and
next to her, Sister Julina L. Smith, and on
the other side the secretary, Sister Emmeline
B. Wells, and next to her Sister Clarissa S.
Williams, the treasurer. Other members of
the Board present were Sisters Sarah Jenne
Cannon, Susan Grant, Emma S. Woodruff,
Emily S. Richards, Priscilla P. Jennings,
Phebe Y. Beatie, Alice M. Horne, Annie W.
Cannon, Minnie H. James, Elizabeth S. Wil-
cox, Rebecca Nibley, and Harriet B. Harker.
Rebecca E. Little, who had been seriously
ill for a long time, was at the banquet ac-
companied by her intimate associate and
friend Sister Elizabeth Crismon.
	It is scarcely possible to enumerate the
good things prepared for the delectation of
the sisters of the party, but if one dared tell
who this efficientc ommittee were, the secret
would be made public for the ladies are
famous in giving entertainments. The table
fairly groaned with the weight of the feast—
the roast beef looked very tempting and all
the vegetables of the season served in the
most appetizing style and all the condi-
ments that go with a dinner, and famous
salads, and after these dainties and
delicacies and ice cream and cakes of great
variety, and fruit to set off the picture of the
table, and a birthday cake, the most deli-
cious that could be made, and candy and
nuts and grape juice to give zest to the
toasts.
	A blessing was pronounced by Sister B.
W. Smith upon the delicious menu, and the
feasting began, all were ready to converse
socially until the chairman of the committee
announced that toasts were expected, and
the ladies began to think what to say.
	Aunt Emm. Wells was given the task of
opening the subject and after congratulat-
ing the President and telling her how long
she had known her, etc., she asked Sister
Dusenberry to respond, and in a few well-
chosen words the lady gave a pretty senti-
ment in her delightful manner. Sister
Julina Smith came next and spoke most
tenderly and lovingly of her Aunt Bath-
sheba, and in fact there seemed in her mind
a little rivalry between herself and Aunt
Emm. Wells as to who loved Aunt Bath-
sheba the best, but that was rather more
amusing than serious, and naturally Sister
Julina is dearer, being her own sister’s
daughter and according to the old saying,
blood is thicker than water.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams could scarcely
speak when she recalled the first recollec-
tions of Aunt Bathsheba, associated as she
was in her mind with her own mother and
her dear father, her feelings almost over-
came her, but she choked down the sob fn
her throat and spoke eloquently of those
dearest memories of her childhood, and
closed with some beautiful lines from Long-
fellow’s poem; “THE GOLDEN MILESTONE.”
Each man’s chimney is his milestone,
Is the central point from which he measures
		Every distance
Through the gateway of the world around him.
We may build more splendid habitations
		But we cannot
Buy with gold the old associations.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff spoke of the
many years she had been acquainted with
Sister Smith and their very intimate associa-
tion in the temple, and in the work of the

[Column 2]
Relief Society, and of her great life work,
and congratulated her on her long life.
	Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon who is al-
ways original as well as dignified, spoke
briefly of her life-long recollections of Aunt
Bathsheba and her nearness to her in the
Relief Society and Temple work.
	Sister Priscilla Jennings wished Sister
Smith all the blessings here and hereafter
that could be showered upon her to make
her life happy; rejoiced that she had been
so closely associated with her. Sister
Susan Grant, modest and demure, spoke
sweetly and tenderly of the past and present
in the finest words possible. Sister Emily
S. Richards alluded to the intimate assosia-
tion of the Richards family and Aunt Bath-
sheba, and could not recall the time when
she had not known her, and referred to Sis-
ter Jane S. Richards intimacy with Aunt
Bathsheba for so many years.
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne was particular-
ly grateful to all who felt to honor her dear
grandmother, and spoke of her grandmoth-
er’s energy and perseverance being an incen-
tive to all, and the sisters were all grati-
fied with her kindly words and feelings so
beautifully and tenderly expressed.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon gave a few of
her childish recollections of the way she
used to scale the high stone wall that separ-
ated the Wells home from the Historian’s
office, when Uncle George A. (as the chil-
ren called him) sat on the porch in his old
arm chair, and referred to the great rever-
ence she felt for him and Uncle Brigham
and her own father, associating them to-
gether as educators and benefactors, and her
great love for Aunt Bathsheba, which she
could give more fully, she thought, in some
lines which she quoted:
	“I would flood your life with sunshine,
		I would fence you from all ill,
	I would crown you with all blessings
		If I could but have my will.
	Aye, but human love may err, dear,
		And a power all-wise is near,
	So I only say God bless you,
		And keep you through the year.”
	Sister Phebe Y. Beatie spoke tenderly of
the love she had for Sister Smith, who al-
ways reminded her of her mother (Sister
Zina Young) and how all through her girl
life she had watched them so intimate in
every place, and it was gratifying to recall
scenes and associations of the earlier days.
	Sister Minnie H. James spoke of the inti-
macy of Sister Smith with her own dear de-
parted mother, Sister M. Isabella Horne, for
so many years, and referred to the beauti-
ful past as she recalled it to memory.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox had the same
tender spot in her heart concerning her own
mother, who was so closely associated with
Sister Smith. Sister Rebecsa Nibley begged
to be excused, but spoke a word or two in
appreciation of her friendship with our
President, Sister Hattie B. Harker felt the
honor it was to be with us and expressed
great kindness and love for our President.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith spoke a few
precious words to us all, expressing her love
and kindly feeling and her good wishes to
all who had come to her home. She blessed
us and desired we should all keep the faith,
love our religion and keep the covenants we
had entered into sacred. She blest us with
the choicest of heaven’s blessings, peace,
prosperity and love, and hoped we should
all meet again and rejoice together and fesst
as we had today,
	It was indeed a happy day and the only
regret was that some of the members could

[Column 3]
not attend, especially Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards, who at all great gatherings of this kind
has been one of the most active in assisting,
and Sister Romania B. Penrose, who is now
abroad, Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth and
Sister Carrie S. Thomas who were unavoid-
ably detained at home.
	The General Board may be congratulated
on the success of the banquet, and if the
President felt happy, which we hope and
trust she did, and will remember the day
with pleasure and satisfaction, knowing she
has the love and reverence and devotion of
her coworkers.			E.B.W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


