[Vol42 | June 1955 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Mary]
Haymond Member, General Board of Relief Society MARY R. YOUNG NNOUNCEMENT of the appointment, April 13, 1955, of Mary Ross Young to the general board of Relief Society brought congratulations and approval from her host of friends. Sister Young was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, to George J. Ross and Mary Romney. Her father passed away when she was nine years of age and her mother reared their five children in a home where religious training, devotion to service, and love of the gospel were constantly taught and practiced. When but sixteen years of age, Sister Young served as secretary of the I'wentieth Ward Sunday School. During the following years she taught in the Religion Class, Primary, and M. I. A. Organizations. She attended the Latter-day Saints High School and the Latter-day Saints Business College. Sister Young continued her training through the reading of good books. She has long been an ardent student of the scriptures. 'The knowledge thus gained has developed a strong, unswerving testimony of the gospel. 'This knowl- 354 edge and testimony will be carried by her into her work on the general board. It will enable her to carry, with conviction and humility, the gospel message to the many hundreds of sisters whom she will visit throughout the stakes of the Church. On December 29, 1921, she married Gaylen Snow Young in the Salt Lake Temple. Their children are Gaylen S. Young, Jr. An attorney; Mrs. Joseph (Betsy) Newton; Mrs. Graham (Mary Lou) Doxey, and Edwin. Sister Young has nine grandchildren She loves them dearly and acts as "second" mother to them for days and weeks at times when conditions require such attention. After her marriage, Sister Young with her husband, lived in Washington D. C. While Brother Young completed his study of law. While RELIEF SOCEITY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 there she was active in the branch. Upon her return to Salt Lake she served on the Primary stake board and later in the presidency. Her next assignment was as a_ board member of the Bonneville Stake Relief Society. After serving on the stake board she was made president of the Bonneville Ward Relief Society, then counselor in the Bonneville Stake. At the time of her appointment to the general board she was president of the Bonneville Stake Relief Society. Spirituality, humility, love for her fellow men, and a desire to serve have radiated to members of her family and to all those whom she calls neighbors. 'The warmth of her personality, with her love for people, coupled with her charity and understanding of others' problems, will endear her to many and make her services invaluable as a member of the general board. > She Covered B, idge Elsie McKinnon Strachan We found it where no speeding cars intrude, Where time has grown a shawl of ivy lace. The country noonday weaves a slumbrous mood Around the woodsy quiet of the place. And slivered sun falls through the leaning roof To lie in splintered light upon the planks Where phantom echoes rise of wheel and hoof, Of hurrying ngs and splashing water tanks. Within the sheltered hush of this old bridge, Our thoughts meandered to those days gone by; While mentally we crossed half-century-ridge, Stepped back to rutted trail, uncharted sky. But then we heard a plane, swift-winged and brief— And knew a world had changed beyond belief.