[Vol42 | June 1955 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: [Vol42 | June 1955 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Unknown | Title: V42_06_00_CONTENTS]]
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  June  i,  and  June  15,  1895 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
Poetry:  There  is  poetry  in  beautiful  thoughts,  kind  deeds  and  loving  words:  there 
is  poetry  in  the  chirp  of  the  meadowlark  and  the  croak  of  the  frog;  there  is  poetry  in  the 
rising  and  in  the  setting  sun,  in  the  stars  and  the  moon,  in  a  beautiful  sky;  there  is 
poetry  in  the  hills  and  the  dales,  and  the  delicate  tinted  flowers  that  grow  there;  there 
is  poetry  in  the  mountains  and  in  the  laughing  streams  that  rush  down  their  sides.  There 
is  poetry  in  music,  painting,  and  in  everything  that  is  beautiful,  grand,  sublime,  noble 
and  true. 
— Olea  Shipp 
Eternal  Law:  When  a  man  by  mutual  consent  of  both  parties  has  made  of  woman 
a  wife  and  mother,  and  a  child  has  been  born,  a  living  soul  created;  that  has  been  done 
which  never  can  be  undone.  Eternal  results  and  consequences  must  inevitably  follow, 
and  this  is  sufficient  reason  why  it  should  be  done  by  virtue  of  an  everlasting  covenant, 
a  covenant  made  to  endure  in  time  and  through  all  eternity. 
— S.  W.  R. 
MARRIAGE 
In  a  green  and  shady  bower, 
Where  the  creeping  ivy's  twine 
Flowers  and  mossy  velvet  carpet 
Is  a  picture  grand,  sublime. 
'Neath  the  bower  a  form  is  seated. 
Manly,  noble-browed  and  just 
And  beside  a  lovely  maiden 
Greets  his  smile  with  fervent  trust. 
They  are  gazing  on  the  future 
Loving  hearts  they  both  enfold. 
Plighted  vows  they  cast  together 
In  affection's  sacred  mold  .... 
— Lizzie  Brown 
Women  in  Journalism:  Since  the  days  when  Miriam  wrote  and  sang  in  the  classic 
land  of  the  Nile,  there  have  been  women  with  hearts  full  of  song,  and  with  souls  deli- 
cately attuned  —  silent  poets,  perhaps,  but  oftimes  silent  only  because  the  stern 
tyrant  necessity  bade  them  toil,  not  sing  ....  literature  is  one  avocation  that  has  never 
closed  its  doors  to  women  ....  There  are  women  engaged  in  journahsm  in  all  parts 
of  the  civilized  world  ....  The  field  is  overcrowded  and  one  should  not  attempt  to 
enter  unless  she  feels  that  inherent  call  which  almost  amounts  to  inspiration. 
— Lizzie  Stevenson  Wilcox 
GOLDEN  WEDDING:  The  Golden  Wedding  of  Elder  Ezra  T.  Clark  and  his 
wife  Mary  S.  Clark  was  celebrated  on  Saturday  evening,  May  18th,  1895,  in  the  Opera 
House,  at  Farmington,  Davis  County,  Utah  .  .  .  Sister  Clark  spoke  of  her  joy  and  her 
happiness  under  all  circumstances,  because  of  the  Gospel;  of  coming  here  among  the 
sagebrush,  living  in  a  log  cabin  ....  Sister  Rhoda  Cooper,  eighty-five  years  old,  sang 
the  hymn,  "Who  is  this  fair  one  from  the  wilderness  travehng?"  .  .  . 
• — Selected 
Page  366