[Vol42 | June 1955 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Poem | Title: A Rich | Author: Bowen]
[— A Rich Heritage Christie Lund Coles 355 Blossoms in Lava Willard Luce 358 "How Can It Please the Human Pride?" CaroUne E. Miner 371 Selling the Rehef Society Magazine Edith G. Baum 374 The Morning-Glory Horn Nell Murbarger 376 A Good Day Margaret Hardy 392 FICTION A Good Life Vera Mayhew 360 First in My Heart Maryhale Woolsey 380 Green Willows — Chapter 5 Deone R. Sutherland 393 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 346 Sixty Years Ago 366 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 367 Editorial: The 125th annual Church Conference Marianne C. Sharp 368 "From Sea to Shining Sea" Vesta P. Crawford 370 Notes to the Field: Summer Work Meetings 372 Brigham Young University Leadership Week 372 Hymn of the Month 372 New Serial "Hermanas" to Begin in July 373 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering 398 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Elizabeth Lee Butler Finds Hobbies Indoors and Outdoors 379 Let Ironing Day Be a Pleasant Day for You Rhea H. Gardner 388 Washing Blankets Rhea H. Gardner 391 Herbs for Modern Cookery — Basil Elizabeth Williamson 416 LESSON DEPARTMENT— TEACHING AIDS AND PREVIEWS FOR 1955-56 Teaching and Teaching Aids for the 1955-56 Lessons Mildred B. Eyring 403 Theology — Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Leland H. Monson 405 Visiting Teacher Messages — Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Edith S. Elliott 407 Work Meeting — Food Preparation and Service Rhea H. Gardner 408 Literature — Literature of England Briant S. Jacobs 410 Social Science — The Constitution of the United States Albert R. Bowen]
Poetry — A  Rich  Heritage 
Chiistie  Lund  Coles 
POETRY  is  a  soul-food  so  rich, 
so  satisfying,  so  nourishing 
that  he  who  has  never  known 
the  joy  of  it  has  been  hungry  in- 
deed. 
And  I  beheve  that  those  who  have 
been  given  the  gift  of  expression 
are  indeed  blessed. 
The  poet  has  found  his  medium 
of  expression.  What  he  expresses, 
and  how  well  he  does  it  depend  up- 
on his  own  ability,  and  his  own  wil- 
lingness to  develop  his  talent. 
The  subject  matter  of  poetry  is 
limitless.  Many  modernists  declare 
that  nothing  is  beyond  the  pro- 
vince of  the  writer,  if  he  is  able  to 
capture  and  present  it  well.  Robert 
Burns  proved  this  true,  in  his  day, 
by  his  poignant  and  wise  words  in 
'To  a  Field  Mouse,"  and  in  the 
poem  written  while  watching  a  louse 
upon  a  lady's  hat.  Yet,  it  is  more 
or  less  accepted  that  beauty  and 
wisdom  and  aspiration  to  nobility 
are  better  handled  in  poetry  than 
subjects  of  ugliness  and  sordidness. 
There  are  so  many  good  and 
worthwhile  subjects  about  which 
one  can  speak,  there  is  so  much  wis- 
dom to  be  presented,  that  I  think, 
particularly  for  our  Church  publica- 
tions, we  should  adhere  to  these 
things.  Beauty  is  still  ''its  own  ex- 
cuse for  being." 
Poetry  is  different  from  prose  in 
that  what  it  says  must  be  said  suc- 
cinctly, carefully,  briefly.  It  must 
catch  in  a  sentence  what  prose  can 
take  a  page  to  present.     This  sen- 
tence cannot  be  merely  a  declarative 
thing,  either;  it  must  be  said  in 
words  that  are  rich  in  meaning,  in 
beauty,  with  phrases  full  of  imagery 
and  metaphors  not  necessarily  found 
in  prose.  Elinor  Wylie  in  her  poem 
"Velvet  Shoes,"  says,  "We  shall  walk 
in  velvet  shoes."  It  comes  upon  us 
so  forcibly  that  we  can  feel  velvet 
beneath  our  feet  when  walking  on 
the  snow.  Poets  are  content  too 
often  to  use  hackneyed,  trite  expres- 
sions that  were  beautiful  when  first 
used,  but  are  not  beautiful  now  be- 
cause they  have  been  said  too  many 
times. 
Imagery  is  the  rich  embroidery  of 
a  poem,  and  if  it  is  fresh,  it  is  a 
true  delight.  If  a  phrase  like 
"downy  flakes"  comes  to  us,  we 
should  examine  it  closely  before 
using  it.  If  it  comes  too  easily  to 
mind  it  may  be  that  we  have  read 
it  many  times  before,  and  have 
stored  it  in  our  subconscious  minds. 
We  should  seek  hard  for  new  words, 
new  combinations,  and  try  to  say 
something  as  it  has  never  been  said 
before. 
Forms  of  poetry  are  varied,  and 
one  wishing  to  write  should  make 
a  study  of  the  standard,  accepted 
forms  so  that  she  will  have  a  better 
background  for  what  she  writes.  In 
the  Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem  Contests, 
for  instance,  it  is  interesting  to  note 
that  sonnets  have  been  singularly 
successful  as  winning  poems.  For 
those  not  familiar  with  the  sonnet 
form  I  might  say  briefly  that  a  son- 
Page  355

356 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JUNE  1955 
net  consists  of  fourteen  lines  with 
alternate  lines  rhyming— abab-cdcd- 
efef— gg  (each  letter  standing  for  a 
rhyme  sound— two  a's  rhyming, 
etc.).  The  lines  are  iambic  pentam- 
eter, which  means  there  are  usual- 
ly five  heavy  beats  and  five  light 
ones,  with  the  second  syllable  in 
the  lines  getting  the  accent,  such  as 
"The  curfew  tolls  the  knell  of  part- 
ing day."  An  occasional  extra  light 
beat  is  permissible,  but  only  one  fa- 
miliar with  the  form  should  try  this. 
The  sonnet  is  a  stately  form  for  a 
fine  subject.
