[Vol42 | June 1955 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: 352 Mary Ross Young Elna P. Haymond]
Haymond Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Ellsworth Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Edith P. Backman

Vol. 42 JUNE 1955 No. 6

The Cover: "Aristocrat Roses," Photograph by Ward Linton
Frontispiece Photograph: "The Grand Teton and Jenny Lake, Wyoming" Photograph by Don Knight
Cover Design by Evan Jensen

Srom lear and Sar
I read Lael W. Hill's remarks in the "From Near and Far' department in the April Magazine, then reread her mother's lovely poem in the February issue ("'Poet's Mother").

Lael has always been an inspiration to me ever since we wrote for the Tribune Junior as children. I have often wondered if we weren't married on the same day, as our marriage licenses were published in the paper on the same day. I hope some day she will publish a book of her wonderful poetry. I would be one of the first to buy a copy.
—Nell B. Brenchley
Preston, Idaho

We in the Cedar Second Ward read our Relief Society Magazine and realize what a wonderful privilege it is for us to study these lessons, to enjoy each interesting story and poem. In the special short story issue for April (1955), the bird photographs are most unusual, also the floral pictures. The table decoration is teally eye-catching. The moment the Magazine arrives I sit right down with it, regardless of what I might be doing.

Recently a number of young married girls who are not attending Relief Society meetings regularly are reading the Magazine with great interest, and vote it their choice.
—Genevieve MacFarlane
Cedar City, Utah

I have always enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine. In fact, it was the Magazine which my mother and grandmother read before anything else.
"I love this little Magazine,"
Said my mother long ago.
"There is so much here to be seen,
So many things to know."
Today I spent a quiet hour
With a copy of my own
And marveled at its healing power
When I could be alone.
—Gertrude T. Kovan
Provo, Utah

Page 346

My aunt, Mrs. E. Jones of Spanish Fork, Utah, subscribes to The Relief Society Magazine for me, and I do want to let you know how much I enjoy every issue. I belong to the Presbyterian Church, and am a member of the Missionary Society. When I take here, take my turn conducting the deliberations, I am delighted to say I have used some verses from your splendid Magazine. We are all following in His steps.
—Miss Catherine Harvey
Montreal, Canada

I received the Magazine as a gift from my mother and have appreciated it so much these past two years while I have lived in Turkey. 'There are no other