USELESS WOMEN.

	It is an unfailing theme—old as creation
—the faults of women!
	No doubt Adam harped on it rainy days,
when there was nothing to be done at gar-
dening, and perhaps he had some cause for
complaint, for every intelligent person will
admit that he was sadly taken in by that
metamorphosed rib of his.
	Now-a-days, wherever you go, you hear
the same doleful story.
	Young men are afraid to marry because
the young women are so useless. All they
are fit for is to dress up like dolls, and sit in
the parlor, and thrum the helpless piano.
	Well, who is to blame?
	Not the young ladies themselves, most
assuredly.
	Somebody says it is their mothers, but we
don't think so.
	Don't everybody know that the young
men of the present day want the young wo-
men to be useless! Don't they want them to
dress up and sit in the parlor! Don't they
praise their unsunned foreheads and their
lily hands and admire the sweep of  their 
silken trails, and the glitter of their jewel-
ry?
	The pretty talk that we hear sometimes
about girls helping their mothers in the
kitchen is beautiful on parper, but who ex-
pects anything of the kind from a young
lady?
	Baking bread, and coddling preserves, and
sweeping, and making beds are not condu-
cive to white hands and delicate complex-
ions; and when it comes to washing clothes
and scrubbing floors—why, good gracious!
that is all!
	Young men never go into kitchens to
watch their darlings make pies and black
stoves—anywhere out of novels; they don't
want to, and the girls don't want them to!
They all know that Maggie looks like any
scullion without her powder; and smut on
her face is not becoming; and sweat and
steam will take her hair out of curl; and
strawberries and peaches, however delicious
they may be to the palate, put one's finger
ends in hopeless mourning.
	No; the young man of the present day
when he calls on the young lady, expects to
sit in the softest corner of the sofa, and Mag-
gie is expected to bedressed like one of the
last fashion-plates, with at least twenty ruf-
fles on her dress, and a bustle as large as
Sallie's, or Jennie's, or Annie's, or else she
isn't stylish.
	You just listen a moment to the conversa-
tion of our young men as they smoke
their cigars in front of their club-room and
watch the ladies pass by.
	"There goes Miss B. Dused stylish-look-
ing girl; grooms her hair well; dresses in
elegant taste; plays a tip-top game of euchre,
too."
	"There comes Miss C. Drab and wine-
color; striking costume; got a handsome
foot, and not afraid to show it. By George!
a fellow needn't be ashamed to drive out
with such a stylish-looking woman!"
	When little Miss D. passes by in her plain
dress, with nobody's dingy hair on but her
own, and a hat full a year behind fashion, all
the "fellows" stare at her, and make remarks
about one's grandmother, and Noah's Ark,
and wonder Barnum isn't after her. Not
one of them says anything about the fact
that she is a sensible woman, and has spent
her life in the kitchen cooking and mending
for her father and half-a-dozen young broth-
ers and sisters. Oh, no. And yet men are
all the time crying out that they want sensi-
ble women for wives.
	Why dont they get them then?


