		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE PREVAILING fashion for dressing
ladies' hair in New York, is a wide braid
extending from the top of the head to the
nape of the neck. Though seeming odd at
first, this is better than the great roll on top
of the head, or the idiotic fashion of crimps
or curls reaching almost to the eyes.
	THE WOMEN of Massachusetts are in ear-
nest about Suffrage, and don't mean to fail
in their object if industry, perseverance and
determination can accomplish anything.
They will present a petition to the Legisla-
ture of the State asking for amendments
to the State Constitution, so as to abolish all
political distinctions on account of sex. We
heartily wish them the success which their
ambition merits.
	Guelma Penn, sister of Susan B. Anthony,
recently died, after a lingering illness, in
Rochester, New York. She was one of the
fifteen women who exercised their right of
suffrage in Rochester last year. During her
long sickness, she was almost constantly at-
tended and watched over with unceasing
devotion by her sister. Let people who be-
lieve that great pursuits and noble aims,
necessarily deaden the finer senses, or cause
the gentle, affectionate nature of woman to
become coarser and more austere, notice
this incident in the life of Miss Anthony.
	INDIAN AGENT Ingalls, it is reported,
has made himself conspicuous through hav-
ing swindled the settlers in Southern Utah
and Nevada out of all the grain and goods
he could induce them to sell him, by fair
promises to pay in 90 days. He "settled"
with the farmers by giving them checks on
the First National Bank of Salt Lake, which,
when presented, were rejected, it being as-
certained that he had nothing to his credit
in the bank. The poor Aborigines will like-
ly be some time yet in learning to be strict-
ly honest, with such specimens of civiliza-
tion for their instructors.
	IN OUR last issue, under the title of "Pro-
gress of a Year," we published a brief re-
port of the efforts which have been made in
behalf of woman in this country. In the
present number, we condense from an Eng-
lish paper, a report of an address by Miss
Becker, which touches, in a pithy manner,
on some of the most prominent points of the
Woman Suffrage question among our trans-
atlantic neighbors. We hope the opposition
and difficulties experienced by the friends
of Woman suffrage will result in the better
understanding of and appreciation by wo-
men of the rights, responsibilities and privile-
ges of the elective franchise, when obtained
by them.
	THE WASHINGTON Capitol describes the
proceedings of the first day of the present
sitting of Congress, in a graphic and ludicrous
manner. It states that "Dr. J. P. Newman
resigned his position as the Lord's stump
orator of the Senate." And speaking of
Hon. George Q. Cannon, it says:
	"The next object of interest was the poly-
gamous representative of the polygamous
Mormons, a stout, rather good looking man,
with a face that indicates more culture and
sense than the average congressman. When

[Column 2]
he stepped forward to take the oath one of
the few remaining Christian statesmen moved
that Mr. Cannon be not sworn in because of
certain illegal practices of which he, the
delegate, had been guilty. This was under-
stood to mean that he, said delegate, had
united himself in the holy bonds of matri-
mony to four wives. The consternation that
spread over the House at this announcement
was ludicrous to contemplate. If a member
was to be excluded for possessing four wives
what was to become of the gentlemen of
one wife each and no end of concubines? * *
Right and left started up and denounced
the motion with such vigor that it went out
with great puffs of wind, and the rotund
representative of the saints came to the
front and took his swear at the Constitution.
The ladies craned their fair necks to get a
better view of the member who found wo-
men willing to take a part of him—quarter
him as it were—and quite a ripple of light
laughter ran around the galleries as he swore
to sustain the Constitution, his own being
so sorely tried


[Column 1]
