THE PARTY.

		Salt Lake City, Dec. 28th, 1873.
MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS:
	Permit me, through the columns of the
EXPONENT to make known the result of our
party, held Tuesday, Dec. 23rd,
	After paying all expenses, we find a bal-
lade remaining, amounting to twenty-
five dollars, which we feel happy to turn
over for the benefit of the WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT. Our Committee did their best to
make the party a success; and only regret
that our friends did not more generally
avail themselves of the opportunity to help
in so good a cause. There are yet, some
thirty tickets, or more, to be heard from, as
we were assured they should be paid for,
whether the purchasers were able to be pres-
ent at our entertainment or not; and I have
not the least doubt but that all who prom-
ised will come forward and pay for their tick-
ets; by so doing,they will give the Commit-
tee the gratification of knowing their exer-
tions were not in vain.
	I also desire, in behalf of our Committee,
to make honorable reference to Gen. D. H.
 Wells, for his kind assistance in procuring
the 14th Ward Hall, from Bishop Taylor,
who kindly gave us the use of the hall gra-
tuitously. Thanks to both gentlemen. Like-
wise to Sister M. I. Horne, the 14th Ward
R. S. and Sisters W. Jennings, E. Townsend,
K. Young and others for their liberality in
providing supper for the band &c. free of
expense to us. Sisters W. East and Eliza-
beth Stephenson, who, together with Bro.
Eddy East, voluntarily assisted in preparing
rooms &c. For all these favors we are truly
grateful. And speaking for myself, I say,
gentlemen and ladies, I thank you one and
all for your liberality and assistance. And
we can promise you, that with the blessing
of God, and your kind support, the Infant
EXPONENT will continue to grow, and speak
for itself, from time to time not as a child
with stammering tongue, but in tones whose
clearness shall penetrate to the hearts of all
who read.
	Leaving further comments to our worthy
Editor, I subscribe myself
		Yours very truly, MRS. E. DAVIS.


