ANOTHER YEAR.

	Eighteen-Hundred and Seventy-three is now
with the dull dead past; but upon its pages have
been recorded potent facts, which will live in
history forever. Numerous great events have
transpired and been chronicled in all parts of
the world, during the course of its existence.
Yet even greater things may be contemplated
in meditating upon the year which dawns to-
day. The direful results, of financial crashes
which have occurred in the past year, will only
be fully realized during the reign of its imme-
diate successor. Present indications determine


that the race between reform and folly in every
shape, will be more swiftly and energetically
pursued in the next twelve months than in any
past period of the same length. And the bat-
tle between Truth and Error,—which in the
present dispensation, perhaps more than in any
other since the beginning, is making rapid ap-
proach towards a consummation—it may be re-
garded as a fixed certainty, will rage more
fiercely and bring about greater consequences
in the near future than in any time of the
past.
	To us, the face of the new-born year is truly
bright and joyous as our most ardent friends
could wish. And we feel like saying to our sis-
ters everywhere—Be of good cheer. If mis-
takes have occurred in the past to mar the hap-
piness of a life, let the future prove that per-
fection can be gained through experience. Put
away all jealousies and envious thoughts,
whether of a public or private nature. Be sure
that you are reasonable and just in all your de-
terminations and in all your practices. Seek to
build each other up in every legitimate way.
Pray often; and your faith in God and knowl-
edge of heavenly things will increase beyond
your most sincere anticipations. These things
and these alone can bring, to those who desire
to do good, peace and joy and satisfaction.
	President Wells, in his discourse in the 14th
Ward, last Sabbath, remarked that no Latter-
day Saint could afford to lay off the armor of
righteousness for one moment; for Satan was
ever on the alert, ready to decoy and ensnare
at every turn. This little remark is worthy of
the most careful attention of all Saints—it is a
truth of vast importance.
	Now we wish our friends and readers, one
and all, a happy New Year, and many blissful
returns of the day.


