HUMOROUS.

	A SMART THING —A mustard plaster.
	AN UNPOPULAR "ism" —The rheumatism.
	HOW TO raise beets—Take hold of the
top and pull.
	THE CONNECTION link between the ani-
mal and vegitable kingdoms—Hash. 
	OF ALL the birds that please us with
their lays, the most popular is the hen.
	IT IS very easy to say, Take things as
they come; but suppose they don't come.
	SINGULAR AFFECTION—It is rather odd
that so many horses should run away and
smash vehicles to which they are so much
attached. 
	A MARYLAND paper, in speaking of the
death of a lady, says "she lived fifty years
with her husband, and died in confident
hope of a better life."
	JUDGE (to prisoner convicted of grand lar-
ceny)—"Have you anything to offer to the
court before sentence is passed on you?"
Prisoner—"No, judge, I'm broke. I had ten
dollars when I came in here, but my law-
yer's got that ten dollars now."
	A BOSTON paper says that a homesick San
Franciscan, who is visiting his friends in
Massachusetts, finds occasional relief by hav-
ing sand squirted in his face and down his
back with a bellows, somewhat as the wind
does it in San Francisco.
	Brother P——, of Concord Presbytery,
is fond of certain stereotyped expressions,
which in the excitement of the moment, he
sometimes applies rather inappropriately.
Once, preaching a funeral sermon, while the
corpse lay before him, he excalimed: "Here,
brethren, we have before us a living witness
and a standing monument of the frailty of
human hopes!"
	A WITNESS in a divorce suit kept referring
to the wife as having a very retaliating dis-
position. "She always retaliated for every
little thing," said the witness. "Did you
ever see her husband kiss her?" asked the
wife's council. "Yes, a great many times."
"Well, what did she do on such occasions?"
"She always retaliated, sir." The wife's
retaliating disposition didn't hurt her any
with the jurors.
	"NOW THEN, madam, please look steadily
at this place on the wall," said a photo-
graphist to good old Aunt Hepzibah, when
he had put her in position and the plate in
the camera. The dear old lady looked hard
at the designated spot from her seat, then
got up and walked across the floor and mi-
nutely inspected it, and then turning to the
photographer, gently remarked, "I don't
see anything there."
	AS SOME lady visitors were going through
a penetentiary, under the escort of the Su-
perintendent, they came to a room in which
three women were sewing. "Dear me!"
one of the visitors whispered. "what vicious
looking creatures! Pray, what are they
here for?" "Because they have no other
home; this is our sitting-room, and they
are my wife and two daughters," blandly
answered the Superintendent. 
	IT IS said when the Greek Archbishop of
Syros and Tenos attended the other day in
the Senate House at Cambridge, England,
for the purpose of receiving his honorary de-
gree of L. L. D., he dropped his pocket
handkerchief, and as he stooped down to re-
cover it, one of the graduates in the gal-
lery exclaimed, "Hurrah for the Grecian
bend!" The effect was so intensely ludicrous
that the whole assemblage was convulsed 
with laughter.


