HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	MUFFINS.—One quart of sour buttermilk,
one teacupful of sour cream, two eggs, one
tablespoonful of soda, a little salt, flour
enough to make quite as thick as pound
cake. Bake in muffin rings placed upon tins
in the oven, from twenty to thirty minutes,
according to the temperature of the stove.
	BEESWAX.—Melt the comb by boiling it
in water. When cool it will form a cake on
the surface, which may be taken off and re-
melted. The impurities will settle to the
bottom, and may be scraped off. If the first
melting is not sufficient, remelt until clear.
This makes the yellow wax of commerce.
	BOILED CUSTARD.—Take two table-spoon-
fuls of corn starch, one quart of milk, three
eggs, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a small
piece of butter; heat the milk to nearly
boiling, and add the starch dissolved in a
part of the milk; then add the eggs well
beaten, with four table spoonfuls of powder-
ed sugar; let it boil up once or twice, stir-
ring it briskly, and it is done. Flavor with
lemon or vanilla to your taste.
	THE BOSTON "Journal of Chemistry"
says: "It is a well known fact that a soft-
boiled egg is more easily digested than a
hard boiled one; but the difficulty is in the
white, not in the yolk. Experiments have
shown that the gastric juice will not act
readily on the tough, tenacious structure of
firmly coagulated white of egg, even when
cut in pieces as small as peas—or as fine as
people usually chew their food—while it
acts with facility on the more brittle yolk.
To cook eggs so that they will easily be di-
gested, put them into boiling water sufficient
to cover them and let them remain ten or
fifteen minutes, keep the water nearly to
boiling point, but do not let it reach that
point. Fresh eggs will cook sooner than old
ones. By this process the yolks will be well
cooked, while the white does not become
tough and hard to digest."


HOMEMADE YEAST.—Grate four large
potatoes; while doing this, have a handful
of hops tied up in a cloth boiling in two
quarts of water. When the strength of the
hops is well boiled into the water, which
will take about twenty minutes, remove
them. Put into the water a small teacup
half-full of salt, the same amount of sugar,
and thicken with the grated potatoes. Boil
five minutes, stirring steadily. Turn into a
crock large enough to admit of rising, and
when just cool enough not to scald, stir in a
teacup-full of brewers yeast, or about a pint
of common home-made hop yeast. One tea-
cup-full of this yeast will rise two or three
loaves of bread; and it will keep two or
three weeks without souring. Bread made
from this yeast is remarkably sweet, light
and white.


[Column 1]
					[For the Exponent.
