REFLECTIONS.

	Often when we hear people talk of trials and
tribulations, which have seemed to humble and
purify their natures, we wonder if such scenes
of suffering and sorrow are really necessary for
the purification and eventual exaltation of such
souls. Why wait for trials to subdue, and thus en-
noble the spirit? Those who study to gain wis-
dom and act upon correct principles, find less
cause for grief in the way of life than others
do; and when troubles do come to them they
are best prepared to meet them bravely and
bear them with fortitude, feeling no cause for
self-reproach.
	There is far more wisdom and happiness in
being humble, and submissive to the will of
God because we love Him and delight in His
ways, than in being brought to acknowledge
His hand through the weight of affliction.
	The commandments which the Lord has
given for the government of his people, are all
plain and easy to be understood and practiced.
Yet thought and attention must be devoted to
these principles which have been revealed, or,
simple and comprehensive as they are, we shall
walk blindly. And, in embracing some of
them, will be in danger, through want of know-
ledge and self-discipline, of finding trouble,
having taken upon ourselves to live by laws for
which we were unqualified and unprepared.
	The sacred marriage covenant, which com-
prehends the keeping of the first great com-
mandment, should never be entered into with-
out due consideration. It is always unwise
and most unprofitable to trifle with things so
sacred, or to treat the subject with little re-
spect. Particularly in entering plural marriage,
the principle should be as perfectly understood
by all parties concerned as possible. To realize
that the doctrine is of divine authenticity is not
sufficient, although to comprehend this is very
essential. Men and women should seek dili-
gently to know themselves. And if one feels
that he or she has not yet sufficient faith to
abide a holy law, in righteousness, first learn to
live before the Lord in such a manner as to
have faith and wisdom increased, until worthy
to live in the highest order in such perfection
as to ensure the highest glory.


