		REAL WOMEN.

	Who and what are they? Not the paint-
ed dolls and votaries of fashion, whose sole
earthly happiness seems to consist in being
elaborately dressed, and daintily perfumed,
and who so disfigure themselves, and dis-
arrange and 		up their apparel that it
is difficult to tell whether they are real or
imaginary beings: counterfeits of woman-
hood; false to nature, false to God who made
them perfect. Everything which tends to 
make them false, hypocritical and untrue,
perverts their own real nature; God made
woman beautiful, if not in face and figure,
yet the very nature of her mission on the
earth, helps to make her "a thing of beauty."
God intended her for a real comforter, a real
help-meet, what could be more charming,
more satisfying than this, were it carried
out to the very letter as he designed it
should be?
	How few there are who understand (even
in part) the importance of the position they
occupy, and for which they were specially
created, and strive to preserve their own
identity, their own individuality by being
real; it is a very simple, common-place word
yet it comprises so much.
	What man who possesses pure, manly in-
stincts, but in his heart were he left free to
choose, untrammeled by worldly tradition
and distinction, would prefer a real wo-
man to an artificial one; one who would be
content to fill a home-sphere, proud and
happy in the consciousness of being really
worthy her husband's love and esteem.
	Every day we hear it repeated, "a stylish
woman," "a magnificent woman," "a supe-
rior woman," "a literary woman," or "a
strong-minded woman." A hundred and
one adjectives are applied to the sex, but
whoever stops to think of the Real Woman
—the real living help? She who quietly,
without ostentation or parade, fulfills the
small, home-duties, cheerfully, patiently,
heroically and hopefully, unknown save to
those who constitute her own immediate
circle, and often unappreciated even there:
She has not wealth perhaps, or even a supe-
rior education, but if she has strong com-
mon sense, and an active mind, she is just
as capable of filling her mission here, and of
standing in her own real place hereafter,
as though she was a favorite of fortune or
the idol of the people.
	One of the popular writers of the present
day says "Man is what woman makes him;"
and I would kindly beg leave to add, "wo-
men are what men have made them." A
quiet, unpretending domestic woman is a
nobody nowadays, in the sight of the world.
A woman feels compelled to distinguish her-
self in some way or other, in order to elicit

[Column 2]
even the smallest share of attention from
these would be "Lords of Creation." In
the estimation of her own husband, (if she
happens to be favored with one,) she is sim-
ply a necessity in his establishment, to man-
age his house, to cook his dinner, to attend
to his wardrobe, always on hand if she is
wanted and always out of sight when not
needed. He does'nt mind kissing her occa-
sionally, when it suits him; but he never
thinks she has any thoughts of her own, any
ideas which might be developed; she must
not have even an opinion, or if she has she
must'nt express it, it is entirely out of place;
she is a subject, not a joint-partner in the
domestic firm.
	If men are really superior to women, let
them show themselves so; prove themselves
"pre-eminent," "akin to God." This is
what a real woman craves; something wor-
thy of reverence, of worship even, second
only to her Creator. But failing to find this,
she betakes herself to other things, finding
no superiority in her "Lord and master" nor
even acknowledgement of wifely duties, she
seeks for happiness through another chan-
nel easier of attainment. If a woman is
real enough to let her husband know she is
devotedly attached to him, in nine cases out
of ten, he only makes use of it to her dis-
advantage; consequently it has become gen-
eral among women to advise each other to
disguise their real feelings, afraid to ac-
knowledge them out of policy.
	Where can be the real happiness, the one-
ness? Is not this teaching women to be false
to their own hearts?
	Man, with all his boasted knowledge,
and practical skill in reading character, is
still in comparative ignorance of how wo-
men feel, or what they are. He regards
them as toys, to be picked up and cast aside
at will; very well for pastime playthings, or
for housekeepers; but to consider them real,
genuine, rational beings, is a novel idea; they
are vain, frivolous, fickle and deceitful, inca-
pable of performing any important part in
life creditably.
	I must acknowledge the real genuine ar-
ticle is hard to find, in this enlightened nine-
teenth century; but shall we succumb to
this foul aspersion upon our sex? Shall we or
be content with a false life, a counterfeit? shall
we be real women? We Latter-day Saints,
who profess to aspire to something purer,
higher, nobler and better than the world? We
are seeking to understand ourselves, our
own organization, our own individual life;
making a real use of our time, having a
real purpose in all that we do, in all that we
say, living a real life; laying up real treas-
ures in the kingdom of heaven;  not copy-
ing the fashions of the world, or their man-
ners, but improving for ourselves, guided
and directed by the best talent, judgment
and skill we possess. It is very easy to copy,
there is nothing real in that, not even a
freshness about it, it is only imitation; like
the silly school-girl, who, too idle to exer-
cise her own dormant faculties, copies from
her class-mate's slate, forgetting it will be
of no benefit to her in future; it serves her
purpose for the time being, it is sham, she
passes it off for real information.
	Let us be more cautious—let us know for
ourselves—that will make us real. We shall
then be better qualified to accomplish that
we are striving to attain to, not following a
shadow, or a phantom, but that which is
real; a real Gospel, which will elevate, re-
fine and purify, bringing us back into the
real presence, of Him whose aim and design,
in our creation was to make us real women.
				BLANCE BEACHWOOD.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 13th 1873.


