	WHILE WE CONTEMPLATE
The dawn of the year eighteen, seventy four, we
can only ask, that with the advantage of past
experience, we, and our friends, may stamp
upon its page a better record, than we have left
upon that of any past year.
	OUR KIND CONGRATULATIONS
To Mr. D. A. Swan and Miss M. Cora, who
were married in this city on the 31st ult., Pres.
D. H. Wells officiating. May their peace be
perpetual, and their pathway strewn with flow-
ers.
		MRS. HATTIE MORRIS
Has been elected recording secretary for the
High Priest's quorum.
	"IN BLESSING YE ARE BLESSED."
Counselor Elias Morris of the bishopric of the
15th Ward will this day (New Year's) feast, or
entertain, at his table, the aged, the infirm, the
poor, the widow and the orphan of the ward,
and thus earn multiplied blessings, and honors.
			WE ARE PLEASED
To learn that the Boston centennial Tea Party
was crowned with the success that the occasion
and the times demand. Our sympathies are en-
listed for all earnest workers for the public
weal.
		WE MAKE OBEISANCE
To our next door neighbor, Wyoming. Larimie
County, has elected two women as members of
the Legislature, one third of the six representa-
tives to which the country is entitled. Mr.
Blackwell says that is equitable because women
form one third of the population there.
			WE QUERY
How many women it would require to make
the equitable proportion to which Salt Lake
County is entitled in our Legislature.
			WE LEARN
That the Florence Co., have reduced the price of
their machines from 30 to 40 per cent. That is
business.
			THE GRANGLS.
These organizations must become a power in
the land, and their results must be good, be-
cause they complete no organization without
the co-operation of women. Men and women
are ordained to stimulate each other to good
words, and good works.			S. M. K.


Five hundred millions of frances is the sum to-
tal of the damages inflicted upon Paris by the com-
munists. Add to this enormous aggregate the
amounts paid and still due to Germany, to this again
the incalculable damage inflicted upon the agricultu-
ral districts of unhappy France by the contending
armies, and an idea may be formed of what the
second empire cost the French people. Very dear-
ly have they paid for reconstructed Paris, for Cher-
bourg harbor, for a fleet of useless iron-clads, for
an army glittering and imposing in peace, but ut-
terly inefficient in war. The Bonapartes, uncle
and nephew, have added to the glory of France,
but the price paid for their services must be set
down as an exhorbitant one in the extreme, and,
if Frenchmen consult the welfare of their purses,
they will have nothing further to do with such ex-
pensive rulers.


