			MISCELLANEOUS.

	The best court of equity is a good con-
science. 
	The color of the wind was discovered by
the man who went out and found it blew.
	Every man stamps his value on himself.
The price we challenge for ourselves is giv-
en us. Man is made great or little by his
own will.—Schiller.
	An editor says that the only reason he knows of
why his house was not blown away the other day
during a severe gale was because there was a heavy
mortgage upon it.
	Gold will turn the intellectual balance when weigh-
ed only against reputation; but will be light and in-
effectual when the opposite scale is charged with
justice, veracity and piety.
	He that lives in perpetual suspicion lives the life
of a sentinel never relieved, whose business is to look
out for an expectant enemy, which is an evil not
very far short of perishing by him.
	The evidences of the value of deep cultivation are
plainly shown wherever a ditch has been filled up,
or where the drains have been deeply placed. There
the crops show to visable advantage for more than
twenty years.
	Our most enduring good comes from the
resistance of evil, and that is the only way
of achieving that very good. All we gain
must be gained by earnest effort, and our
greatest happiness ensues from vanquish-
ing obstacles.
	I have had occasion to observe that a
warm blundering man does more for the
world than a frigid wise man. One who
gets into a habit of inquiring about pro-
prieties, and occasions, often spends his
whole life without doing anything to the
purpose.—Cecil.
	Professor Agassiz’s knowledge of natural
history was probably greater than that of
any other man living. In the pursuit of
that knowledge, inspired by an ardent en-
thusiasm, he had been a most arduous work-
er through a long life.

[Column 2]

	An engraver in Springfield, Mass., has cut
the Lord’s Prayer into a piece of copper less
than one-fourth the size of a silver three-
cent piece, and they say there is room in the
circle for fifteen or twenty words more.
	The Arcade (N. Y.) “Times” says that the
young ladies of the Wheaton Seminary at
Norton, Mass., in view of the panic, have
resolved that they will spend upon them-
selves “no money not imperatively demand-
ed by honesty, health, tidiness or mental
improvement, and will carefully avoid every
species of wastefulness,” which is a very
sensible resolution to make tand o keep.
	A curious law case has recently arisen in
Berlin. A poor apprentice lad was lucky
enough at the last drawing of the State lot-
tery to win one-fourth of the great prize.
His principal, who knew that the lad had
no money of his own, or at least not the
amount required to buy one-fourth of the
ticket, pressed his apprentice to confess
where he obtained the money for this pur-
pose. The winning penitent acknowledged
that it was the produce of the sale of a piece
of goods stolen from his employer. The
principal now claims the lottery prize as his
property. The boy’s relations, on the other
hand, object to its surrender. 
	SILENT INFLUENCE.—We are touching
our fellow-beings on all sides. They are af-
fected for good or for evil by what we are,
by what we say and do, even by what we
think and feel. May-flowers in the parlor
breathe their fragrance through the atmos-
phere. We are each of us as silently satur-
ating the atmosphere about us with the sub-
tle aroma of our character. In the family
circle, besides and beyond all the teaching,
the daily life of each parent and child mys-
teriously modifies the life of every person
in the household. The same process on a
wider scale is going on through the commu-
nity. No man liveth to himself, and no
man dies to himself. Others are built up and
straightened by our unconscious deeds, and
others may be wrenched out of their places
and thrown down by our unconscious influ-
ence.
	GIRL AND WIFE.—Who has not seen with
half wonder the sudden development of a
young couple when once they have become 
father and mother? A few days ago—yester-
day it seems—and they were almost children.
The young wife was a girl, with all the joyous
carelessness and heedless buoyancy of a child;
her older friends—at least those who had not
thought enough—shook their heads dubiously,
and told one another that she was "fit for any-
thing but to be married;" "she would be better
at home with her mother, or even at her
school.”  But the wife becomes a mother, and
a marvellous transformation takes place. There
may be the same vivacity and spirit, but all is
calmer, deeper, stronger. She has entered a
new world, and is endued with new powers. A
wise providence has taken the place of thought-
lessness, a firm self-reliance that of helpless
dependence, an untiring energy that of dreamy
inactivity. The girl has suddenly become a
woman, challenging your respect with your
admiration.


