	SPEECH OF HENRY B. BLACKWELL.

It is written that "Faith without works is
dead." You have shown your faith by
crowding this hall to-night. I ask you to
show your works by passing a resolution
which I hold in my hand.
	You are all aware that Woman Suffrage
has been for several years an established
fact in the Territories of Wyoming and
Utah. In Wyoming, women have voted
and served on juries for four years. We
have had from year to year, the repeated
testimony of Chief Justice Howe, of Judge
Kingman, of Gov. John A. Campbell and
other prominent citizens, that the effect of
Woman Suffrage there has been "only good
and that continually." Indeed the citizens
of Laramie Co. have just signalized their
approval by electing two women as members
of the Legislature, being one third of the
six representatives to which that County is
entitled. That is equitable because women
form one-third of the population there. In
a message which Gov. Campbell has just
submitted to the Legislature of Wyoming,
he pronounces Woman Suffrage, after four
years trial, "an unqualified success." In
Utah, no evil results have followed the vo-
ting of women, nor would it be repealed by
the vote of the people of that Territory.
	A year ago the National Republican Plat-
form declared that "the republican party is
mindful of its obligations to the loyal women
of America for their noble devotion to the
cause of freedom, their admission to wider
spheres of usefulness is viewed with satis-
faction, and the honest demands of any class
of citizens for additional rights should re-
ceive respectful consideration." Yet, will it
be believed that Senator Frelinghuysen, a
Republican Senator, has actually introduced
a bill which makes it punishable by fine and
imprisonment for a woman to vote, forbids
her to serve on a jury, and even goes back
to the semi-barbarous ages and deprives
every married woman in all the Territories
of her rights of person, property, children
and earnings, and makes her a helpless de-
pendent in the house of her husband? In
express terms it subjects the women of the
Territories to the provisions of the "English
Common Law as it existed at the time of
the Declaration of Independence." But this
is not all. This same bill actually passed the
U.S. Senate last year, and would be a law,
to-day, if it had not been for the Suffrage
ladies of Massachusetts. They learned the
astounding fact, and wrote and telegraphed
to reliable Woman Suffrage Representatives,
to George F. Hoar and Benjamin F. Butler,
to A. A. Sargeant of California, to C. W.
Willard of Vermont, and half a dozen oth-
ers, and these gentlemen defeated the bill.
Now, at the very commencement of this ses-
sion, Senator Frelinghuysen again brings
forward this infamous bill, and in the name
of the Administration urges that it may be
put upon its speedy passage.
	Is this the reward that Republican Sena-
tors propose to confer on the women of
America for their noble devotion to the cause
of freedom? I can have some charity for
men who hesitate about conferring Suffrage
upon women. But I can have none for those
who seek to take it away where it is in the
full tide of successful experiment, by arbi-
trary Congressional interference with local
self-government. I call upon you therefore
to unite with me in the unanimous passage
of the following resolution:
	A verbal amendment was suggested by a

[Column 2]
gentleman on the floor of the house and one
by another in the gallery, both of which
were accepted by Mr. Blackwell.
	Lucy Stone reminded the women of New
England that here at least they had the
power to vote upon a question where the
honor and interests of Woman were in-
volved.
	The resolution was then adopted by a ring-
ing vote—only two voices being given
against it.
			RESOLUTION.
	WHEREAS, A bill has been introduced into 
the Senate of the United States, by Senator
Frelinghuysen of New Jersey, which pro-
poses to disfranchise the women of Utah and
to subject the women of all the Territories
to the provisions of the English Common
Law, as it existed before the Declaration of
Independence, therefore
	RESOLVED, That this assembly of men and
women of New England, convened in Fan-
euil Hall to celebrate the 100th anniversary
of the Boston Tea Party, hereby call upon
our Senators and Representatives in Con-
gress to secure the defeat of the bill.
	Col. Higginson congratulated the audience
that the vote was practically a unanimous
one. The two who voted against it were
very young men. Although the hour of ad-
journment had arrived, the audience would
not willingly disperse without hearing from
that brave and steadfast reformer, Stephen
S. Foster.
	Stephen S. Foster, said that the resistance
of the Colonists in 1773 was a plain violation
of the law of the land, and urged women
to resist the tyrannical laws of to-day which
deprive them of the ballot. He intended to
resist to the last the oppression resulting
from taxation without representation. He
had refused to pay taxes on his own proper-
ty, and had said to the officers of the law,
"I have paid the last cent of taxes volunta-
rily that I shall ever pay to a government
that puts its foot on the necks of my wife
and daughter."
	Mrs. Wallace sang the "Star Spangled
Banner," the assembly joining in the chorus,
after which the audience dispersed, leaving
the hall amid the inspiring strains of
"Yankee Doodle."


