MISS BECKER ON WOMAN SUFFERAGE

	On Tuesday evening, Oct. 1st, at Oakfield,
England, Miss Becker delivered the follow-
ing interesting address on Woman Suffrage.
Mr. Thomasson occupied the chair.
	Miss Becker commenced with a few com-
plimentary remarks, and then referred to
the political position of women, and said
that if they considered for a moment the va-
rious propositions that were made for the
welfare of the nation, they could not fail to
be struck with the omissions of all distinct
reference to women in many important
branches of legislation. There were certain
matters—such, for instance, as those rela-
ting to food and sanitary science—in which
the reference to women was not material,
because it was universally admitted that
in such matters the welfare of women was
included in that of men. But when they
came to consider the moral, intellectual, and
political welfare of the country, they would
find that all reference to women was omit-
ted, not because women were included, but
because they were excluded. It was admit-
ted that women had the same physical wants
as men, but as far as their intellectual and
social needs were concerned, it was thought
that what was desirable for the one was un-
desirable for the other. It was the object of
the movement they had the honor to repre-
sent to secure for women an equal share
with men in moral, intellectual and social
needs. All women labored under certain
political disabilities. They had no votes in
the election of the Government under which
they lived. It was true that very many
classes of men had no votes, but their dis-
qualification was very different indeed from
the disability under which women suffered.
At one time all who professed the Roman
Catholic faith were excluded from represen-
tation in Parliament, and were subjected to
a series of severe penal laws, but in the
course of time doctrines of civil and religi-
ous liberty prevailed and then Catholics
were enfranchised, because it was thought
that nothing short of that would secure
them such liberty. There was no mention
in the old Acts of Parliament of the franchise
being limited to men, the first enactment
in which it was limited to male persons be-
ing the Act of 1832. In the Act of 1867
the word "man" was used, and she contend-
ed that the word had a higher meaning than
was attributed to it by many, and included
humanity at large. In saying this, she was
not without authority, for in an Act of Par-
liament which had been brought in by the
late Lord Brougham it was expressly de-
clared that words imputing the masculine
gender should be taken to include females
in all the clauses of that Act. Before the
passing of the Act of 1867, it was stated in
the House of Commons that it was intend-
ed to give the franchise to all householders
rated for the relief of the poor, and many
poor women were hardly able to pay the ex-
tra rates imposed under this bill, but when
they applied to the courts in 1868, to claim
the votes given under the Act, they found
that the words imputing the masculine gen-
der applied to them in the clauses imposing
the burdens, but excluded them from the
clauses conveying the privileges. There
were certain classes of men, viz., minors,
idiots, lunatics, and criminals that were not
permitted to vote, and surely it was not
very wonderful that women should desire to
escape from such a category. But when 
they enquired into the question, they found
that the condition of women was worse. A
minor would be entitled to the franchise in
a few years, but a woman was never able to
acquire the right of voting. A learned


[Column 1]
judge had laid it down that "infants cannot
vote, and that women are perpetual infants."
She would ask them to bear in mind the
influence of women in the civilization of the
world, and say if that judge was right in
thus speaking of women, was it not true
that the most important lessons a man could
learn were learned at his mother's knee?
And was it right that the law should teach
him when he grew up, to regard his mother
as a perpetual infant? It had been proposed
in the House of Commons that when a man
was convicted of felony and sentenced to
penal servitude he should be disfranchised,
but Mr. Gladstone replied that it was not
right to punish a man by giving him "life-
long electoral incapacity." But although
this was thought too severe for criminals, it
was inflicted without compunction on a class
of beings who had never broken the law.
In effect, therefore, a man might rob his
mistress, go to prison for the offence, and
then come out of gaol and help to make
laws to govern the mistress he had robbed.
It had been laid down by authority that if
a lunatic had a lucid interval at the time of
an election, and was sufficiently "compo-
mentis" to distinguish between the candi-
dates, he was entitled to vote, but the law
regarded women as never having a suffi-
ciently lucid moment to vote; so that the
law placed them intellectually below luna-
tics, and morally, below felons. As to the
illiterate voter, they all knew the wonder-
ful pains that had been taken to secure his
vote. Yet, strange to say, an educated wo-
man was not allowed to record her vote.
There was an old maxim that taxation and
representation should go together, and that
was all she asked for. In 1868 it was found
that there was so much corruption in the
borough of Bridgewater that a Royal Com-
mission was sent down to report on the sub-
ject, and the committee found so much cor-
ruption that they disfranchised the borough.
Now the people of Bridgewater discovered
that a Royal Commission was a very expen-
sive luxury, and a rate of 3s. in the pound
was levied on the rate-payers. This rate fell
very heavily on a number of poor ladies in
the borough who were rate-payers, and they
sent a memorial to the Home Office, stating
that as they had no votes they should not be
called upon to pay for the faults of the men.
But Mr. Bruce replied that it was not in the
power of the Government to release them
from the imperial and local taxation to which
their property was liable. That perhaps was
a right answer to give, but what they asked
for was that women, who owned or occupied
property, should have the vote the proper-
ty would carry with it if they were men, in
addition to the monetary liabilities. It
might be said that their claim was a just one,
but that it was necessary to show more rea-
sons than the one that it was just. She could
not admit that. When a thing was clearly
put they might rest assured that good would
accrue from giving it, and that evil would
follow its refusal. Miss Becker then referred
to the speech which Mr. John Bright deliv-
ered in 1868, on the first occasion on which
he addressed a public meeting after his re-
covering from a severe illness. Mr. Bright
said: "I do not wish to endanger or remove
any of the ancient landmarks of our Consti-
tution. I do not wish to disturb this ques-
tion of the franchise beyond what has al-
ready been sanctioned by Parliament and
the country. I do not want to introduce any
new principle or theoretical opinion which
it may be found difficult to adopt.	*	*
*	*	*	*	*	What have we at
present in the way of franchises? We have
the parish franchise. For generations, for
ages past, there has been an extensive fran-

[Column 2]
chise in all our parishes. We have poor-
law unions which have worked on the whole
in a manner satisfactory to the country. We
have a franchise in our poor-law unions.
We have a corporation franchise, and that
franchise may be said to have worked to the
satisfaction of the country. I will ask any
man here whether he believes that in all
parishes, all the poor-law unions, and all the
corporations, men have not conducted them-
selves with great propriety, and managed
the affairs of their parishes, the poor-law
unions, and the corporations, women had
not conducted themselves with propriety;
and whether he would object to have the
same franchise conferred upon them for the
election of the members of the House of
Commons? She argued that in the days of
open voting the influence of women in an
election was greater than it was now when
a man voted secretly, according to his own
will and pleasure, and was responsible to no
one. The idea that the franchise was a
trust, had been done away with by the prac-
tice of secret voting, and it was, therefore,
only just that each class of the community,
who used formerly to influence an election,
should have the secret vote. The passing
of the Ballot Act had removed a great ob-
jection to women's suffrage. Mr. Gladstone
said that his objection to it was that it would
involve women in all the turmoil of contest-
ed elections, but the objection had now been
removed, for whatever else the ballot had
done it had introduced order into elections.
Women were very much addicted to com-
mitting matrimony, but when they did so
the law treated them as if they had com-
mitted felony. A criminal could not hold
property, and a woman from the day of her
marriage became incapable of possessing
property. There was not a large town in
England in which some woman was not
shamefully robbed every day. By the Act
of 1870, a woman, when she married, trans-
ferred all her liabilities to her husband, but
the House of Lords made this arrangement;
they gave the husband the property and the
wife the debts. Miss Becker then proceed-
ed to make a few remarks on the present
position of the movement. The Govern-
ment in encouraging women to come for-
ward as School Board candidates, distinctly
recognized the right of women to share in
the government of the country. How then,
she would ask, could women who sat at
School Board meetings and assisted to solve
such knotty points as the payment of de-
nominational fees, &c. be considered as
unfit to choose between two Parliamentary
candidates? It was too great an anomaly to
last. It was proposed to give the franchise
to agricultural laborers; but could it be said
that women had less political experience and
less capability for the franchise than agri-
cultural laborers? Why was the franchise
to be given to laborers? It was thought
they needed it as a protection. The very
same reason, she need hardly add, applied
to women. The extension of the Municipal
and School Board franchise to women had
worked well, and there was no reason what-
ever why the Parliamentary franchise should
be withheld. If men advance women must
advance. Man and woman must go hand in

[Column 3]
hand, and if man will not bring her forward
she will draw man back, for man cannot ad-
vance himself from woman. After sketch-
ing forth the programme of the Women's
Suffrage Society, Miss Becker concluded her
address by eloquently appealing to the audi-
ence to use whatever influence they possess-
ed to remove an anomaly which was inju-
rious to the best interests of the country.— 
“Bolton Guardian.”


