	"THE MEMORY OF THE JUST IS BLESSED."—BIBLE.

Complimentary to "Exponent" Party, to celebrate the
	Anniversary of the Prophet Joseph's birth.

	In every land, and every age
		Men honor their illustrious dead,
	And garnish the historic page
	  	With Eulogies, of names who've led!

	In science, war, or realms of thought,
		Though far removed, or hither led;
	No fight so fearful as they fought
		In life,—none honored more when dead.

	Despised, disowned, accounted mad,
		Punished by faggot, dungeon, steel;
	How many a broken heart such had,
		Whose works were for their races' weal!

	No music from the trump of fame,
		No craving for a world's applause,
	No wish to win themselves a name,
		Inspired these Braves in duty's cause!

	But scarcely have they gone to rest
		Than stately monuments are raised;
	And party blazoned with their crest,
		Surrounds the shrines at which they're praised.

	Cities for centuries contend,
		Each wastes its time in nauseous lore,
	And circumstance unjustly bend
		For honor of their birth-place more!

	And many Saviors crucified
		As trators to their age and time,
	Have by their sons been deified
		And worshipped in their land and clime.

	But not for seers and sages old,
		In Christian or in Pagan world;
	Do we in reverence this day hold,
		Or ask a birth-day flag unfurled.

	Here, for "a man" we knew in life,
		Here, for a man we wept when slain,
	Here where his triumphs mark the strife,
		And promise of a future reign.

	Joseph, thy birth we celebrate,
		This day shall consecrated be,
	Till Israel's homes shall reverberate
		O'er Zion's land from sea to sea!

	Thou Prophet of the Latter-Day,
		Thou, in the midst of darkness sent
	By Revelation's power to sway,
		Till Heaven and Earth in one are blent. 

	Thou Faithful, True to thy great call,
		Through persecution, trial, DEATH,
	Then calm, serene, as evening fall,
		Dear martyred one, to yield thy breath!

	Joseph, the Seer, the Man of God,
		The Prophet--Martyr of our day;
	The Savior; if the path is trod
		Which thy example did portray!
	
	May we renew our love to thee,
		On this selected natal day,
	And through a faithful life agree
		To inaugurate the better day!

	When faithful men shall in their time
 		Have all the honors Truth bestows,
	Till earth shall have that genial clime
		Which in the Heavenly Kingdom glows.


