[The Valley Train Evelyn Fjeldsted]

Valley Srain Evelyn Fjeldsted The valley train comes nosing down The slight incline along the lake; With boisterous mien it enters town, An echoed whistle in its wake.
Then thundering on with smoky mane Curling in the lonely breeze, A black streak in the fields of grain, It tracks the running miles with ease. For those whose destiny is home, The light of day would come in vain Without the dreams that shine like chrome, Wild, enchanting dreams that come by train. The Place of Music in the bing of the Women of the Church Melissa Glade Behunin For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads (D. & C. 25:12). INCE singing is pleasing to S our Heavenly Father, a prayer unto him that should come from our hearts, surely we as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints should learn to sing in harmony with his spirit and with more perfect understanding.
Music is an expression of feeling and emotion. It is one of the most ancient of fine arts and one of the avenues by which we reach back to our Father in heaven.
From the beginning of time people with musical talents and abilities have been raised up and have unselfishly given of their time and talents to the blessing of people on the earth. We learn from Genesis that "Jubal was the father of all such as handle the harp and the organ." The children of Israel sang as they came out of bondage.
Psalms were sung and composed by David.
Singing has its place in the joyous festive occasions, the solemn sacred service, and in the hours of sorrow.
Matthew tells us that after the feast of the passover when Christ introduced the sacrament, before they went, in the spirit of sadness, from the supper table, from whence Christ knew he was going to his betrayal and death, they sang a hymn (Matt. 26:30).
From the re-establishment of our 
Church music has played a great part. It has opened the way for the spirit of our Heavenly Father to enter into the hearts of the saints and it has helped to instill a testimony, to strengthen the testimony, and thus make more sure and perfect the contact with heaven. So important was singing in the lives of the early Latter-day Saints that the Prophet's wife Emma Smith was called to the work of making a selection of the songs of Zion. From the Doctrine and Covenants (128:22) we have a reference to singing in this way: "Let your heart rejoice, and be exceedingly glad. Let the earth break forth into singing." And again, "Praise the Lord with singing, with music, with dancing, and with a prayer of praise and thanksgiving" (136:28). The song "The Spirit of God Like a Fire" had a humble, inconspicuous beginning. It was written by Brother William Wines Phelps, one of the most gifted and prolific hymn writers of our early Church period. Though it was sung before the completion of the Kirtland Temple, it was not until that time that its full spiritual and emotional power was felt. During the dedicatory service, March 27, 1836, Elder Sidney Rigdon referred to the sacrifices that had been made by those who had labored on the building THE I cannot provide the missing text because the article "The Valley Train" does not appear in any of the provided PDF page images. The pages shown contain different content entirely.