[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon OUISE SNELGROVE RICHARDS (Mrs. Willard B. Richards, Senior) observed her g3rd birthday December 12.
Never idle, Mrs.
Richards has made more than four hundred soft, lovely baby blankets, with crocheted edges, as © gifts for young friends who were expectant mothers.
With each blanket she has sent a prayerful wish: "Dear Expectant Mother: Hoping you will have courage and strength to go forward; may you have a safe delivery, a speedy recovery, and a desire to rear your children close to the Lord, and keep his commandments."
With her clear, vivid memory, Mrs.
Richards is an authority on early pioneer history.
Nine of her children are living. [RS THORPE, a young Salt Lake woman, is enjoying an unusual experience teaching school in Wurzburg, Germany, which was 85 per cent destroyed by bombs during the war. ARAH SPRAGUE BATES, of | Murray, Utah, celebrated the ninety-sixth anniversary of her birth December 15.
Eight of her twelve children are living, and more than 100 descendants. In early days Mrs.
Bates was a telegrapher, and she also skinned deer and made doeskin gloves. ] C— EDITORIAL a2 
VOL. 
She Handmaid to the Priesthood HE Relief Society has been termed "the handmaid to the Priesthood of God in carrying on his work for the salvation of man.' * This being the case, it is easily understandable why it has also been characterized as the greatest woman's organization in the world.
When one considers the Priesthood and its powers, one more fully appreciates the position held by the Relief Society.
Realizing the importance of the society, Relief Society officers are always seeking to impress upon the womanhood of the Church, the blessing and responsibility.
Associated with membership in it.
Sometimes women Church members seem not to realize that the organization of Relief Society by divine inspiration entails the responsibility of giving their support to its activities.
What weight will membership in any other woman's organization—be it cultural or philanthropic—carry in the day of judgment in comparison to an active membership in the organization which is "handmaid to the Priesthood?" Latter-day Saint woman's primary duty is to support first the Relief Society before any other woman's organization. A great and valuable contribution *(J. Reuben Clark, Jr., "Our Homes," Relief Society Magazine, Dec. 1940, page 802).  to the furtherance of that part of Church work assigned to women is expected from the members of Relief Society, essentially a work of compassion among the Church membership.
Because of its divine origin, Relief Society officers, general, stake, and ward are privileged to be directed by the Priesthood, and Relief Society leaders themselves have the right to the inspiration of the Lord in carrying on their work. And certainly every worker in Relief Society would acknowledge how, through bestowing watchcare and loving service on others, there returns to her an increase in her own understanding, growth, and progression along that straight and narrow path to eternal life. Sometimes, instead of considering the hours of devoted service a faithful member gives to the work of Relief Society, it would be well for each member to consider the great goodness of the Lord in giving to his daughters here on earth an organization, also to consider the blessings of leadership, experience, and doing good which flow to the sisters who continue steadfast in their loyalty to the society through the years. When Nephi was being shown the events of the latter days, he saw that while the dominions of the saints were small, they EDITORIAL were "also upon all the face of the earth." It is inspiring to a Relief Society member to realize that usually wherever the Church is organized there is likewise a Relief Society composed of faithful sisters, each society in its own land serving as handmaid to the Priesthood in that land. March 17, 1950 commemorates the close of the 108th year of Relief Society and the beginning of the 109th year. In this coming year the hearts of the sisters will again rejoice and their voices rise in praise and grati- 173 tude to the Lord for his goodness to his daughters. The testimonies heard each month in every Relief Society organization on the face of the earth, in different languages and under varying conditions, attest in unison of the goodness of the Lord in inspiring that great Prophet of the latter days to organize Relief Society. The _ testimonies of the members, forming a band around the earth encircling the daughters of Zion within the Church, inspire them to seek to fulfill the full measure of Relief Society's creation. —M. CSS.