[Editorial: "The Handmaid to the Priesthood" Marianne C. Sharp]

Priesthood is the power and authority of God delegated to man on earth to act in all things for the salvation of men.
Keys are quite another thing. As used in the Church they have two  distinct and yet related meanings: i—They are the right of presidency; the right to govern and direct all of the affairs of the Church or kingdom; and the power to authorize the use of the Priesthood for a particular purpose. In this sense keys are held by those only who are in presiding and governing positions. 2—Keys are also the way and means whereby knowledge and intelligence may be gained from God. In this sense, they are possessed by every Priesthood bearer and, as we shall see, by many faithful members of the Relief Society.
These definitions warrant some documentation and explanation. As to the first, that keys pertain to presidency: The Lord's house is a house of order and not a house of confusion. 'Though his Priesthood may be conferred upon many, they are authorized to use its powers only in conformity with the divine patterns. The power to baptize for the remission of sins is had by priests of the Aaronic order. But no priest can perform a valid baptism unless authorized to use his Priesthood for that purpose by the one holding the keys. So with marriages and all other ordinances and administrations.
Unless the one holding the keys authorizes the use of the Priesthood for the purpose at hand, the act performed is of no THE RELIEF SOCIETY AND THE KEYS OF THE KINGDOM "efficacy, virtue or force" (D. & C. 132:7). It is not binding on earth or in heaven. "It is necessary that every act performed under this authority," says President Joseph F. Smith, "shall be done at the proper time and place, in the proper way, and after the proper order. The power of directing these labors constitutes the keys of the Priesthood. In their fulness, the keys are held by only one person at a time, the prophet and president of the Church. He may delegate any portion of this power to another, in which case that person holds the keys of that particular labor" (Gospel Doctrine, 4th Ed., page 168). Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery received two things under the hands of Peter, James, and John: 1. The Melchizedek Priesthood; and 2. The keys of the kingdom of God, and of the dispensation of the fulness of times.
Thus they gained both the authority and the right to use that authority in setting up, regulating, and governing all the affairs of the Church, and of the dispensation. N February 1835 the first quorum of apostles was called.
Each member was given all of the keys which had been received up to that time. Thereafter Joseph and Oliver received additional keys. On April 3, 1836, for instance, Moses appeared and committed unto them "the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north" (D. & C.110:11).
Elijah also came on that day and gave them the keys 149 of the sealing power by which sacred ordinances may be performed for the living and the dead.
Thus the Lord was now authorizing and directing the use, for added purposes, of the Priesthood already held. His servants were to gather Israel and seal them up unto eternal life in the Father's kingdom.
During his ministry the Prophet received—from Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, and "divers angels'—all of the rights, keys, and powers that had been revealed in previous dispensations. (See D. & C. 128:20-21.) Then, in about April or May of. 1844, in the Nauvoo Temple, all of these keys and powers were conferred upon each of the Twelve. To those chosen ministers the Prophet then said: I have sealed upon your heads all of the keys of the kingdom of God. I have sealed upon you every key, power, principle that the God of heaven has tevealed to me. Now, no matter where I may go or what I may do, the kingdom rests upon you. (See The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff, page 72.) All of those who have been called into the Council of the Twelve since that day have had conferred upon them all of these keys, powers, and rights. We have an unbroken line of succession and of stewardships.
There has also been a chain of stewardships from the beginning. And, incidentally, it is from this very terminology that the word "keys" is taken.
Christ is the creator and owner of the earth. But he appoints agents or stewards to act for him. 'To them he gives "keys" so that they can open the doors of his storehouse for the bene- 150 fit of all men.
Adam holds the keys of salvation for all dispensations and is the Lord's chief steward. The Presidency and the Twelve in this day hold the keys of the kingdom in connection with the ancients.
Theirs is the power to open the door of this present and last kingdom to all the world. (See D. & C. 112:14-32.) In this connection it should be remembered that the Church, the keys, and the kingdom are here to stay.
This is a "kingdom which shall never be destroyed." It "shall not be left to other people." "It shall stand forever" (Dan. 2:44). The stone which was cut out of the mountain without hands is destined to roll forth "until it has filled the whole earth" (D. & C. 65:2).
This is a sure promise.
Corollary to it is the principle that God will not permit his people to be led astray in this final dispensation. As President Woodruff declared: The God of Israel, who organized this Church and kingdom, never ordained any president or presidency to lead it astray.
Hear it, ye Israel, no man who has ever breathed the breath of life can hold these keys of the kingdom of God and lead the people astray (The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff, page 74). Now, as to the other meaning of keys: that of being the way and means whereby knowledge and intelligence may be gained from God. As to this, President Joseph F.
Smith says: What is a key? It is the right or privilege which belongs to and comes with the Priesthood, to have communication with God. Is not that a key?
Most decidedly. We may not enjoy the blessing, or key, very much, but the key is in  the Pnesthood. It is the right to enjoy the blessing of communication with the heavens.. (Gospel Doctrine, 4th Ed., page 176). To Joseph Smith the Lord gave "the keys of the mysteries, and the revelations which are __ sealed" (D. & C. 28:7); that is, the Prophet received the way, the means, and the right to pull down intelligence from heaven so that unknown things could be made plain. BY this power false teachings could be brought to light.
Hence the Prophet's comment: "I preached in the grove, on the keys of the kingdom, charity, etc. The keys are certain signs and words by which false spirits and personages may be detected from true" (D. H. C. IV, page 608). The use of keys in this sense is not.
Limited to Priesthood holders. Sister Eliza R.
Snow took the minutes of the Relief Society meeting of April 28, 1842, which the Prophet attended.
Joseph later approved and authorized the publication of her digest of his remarks at that meeting. He spoke of delivering the keys of the Priesthood of the Church, and said that the faithful members of the Relief Society should receive them in connection with their husbands, that the Saints whose integrity has been tried and proved faithful, might know how to ask the Lord and receive an answer (D. H. C. IV, page 604). What, then, in summary, is the relationship of the Relief Society to the keys of the kingdom? And what was the significance of the Prophet's turning the key in their behalf in the name of the Lord?
THE RELIEF SOCIETY AND THE KEYS OF THE KINGDOM 151 1. Of first importance is the fact that it was the Prophet himself, acting as the Lord's agent, who turned the key. He held all of the keys of the kingdom of God on earth, and by virtue of this directive power, this right of presidency, he was entitled, legally, to make the Relief Society an official part of the kingdom. His act was binding on earth and in heaven, and the Relief Society thus became the Lord's own agency for acting in all things within the scope of its commission. 2. By turning the key the Prophet delegated to the duly appointed officers of the new organization a portion of the keys of the kingdom.
Under the Priesthood they were now authorized to direct, control, and govern the affairs of the society.
They thus became legal administrators holding the keys of presidency.
Under this appointment their lawful acts would be recognized by the Lord and he would work with them in the rolling forth of the kingdom in the sphere assigned them. 3. And, finally, the door was opened whereby the faithful sisters, with their husbands, could communicate with God and _ receive blessings at his hands.
What was it the Prophet said? "Knowledge and intelligence shall flow down (i. E. From God) from this time henceforth." "This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures," the Prophet told the sisters in that memorable meeting: It is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom; If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. Females, if they are pure and innocent, can come in the presence of God; for what is more pleasing to God than innocence; you must be innocent, or you cannot come up before God; if we would come before God, we must keep ourselves pute, as He is pure (D. H. C. IV, page 605). J Wa tch Win ter Pass C. Cameron Johns The quiet land was covered from my sight While birds were feeding at the window sill All winter long; no sensory delight, No perfumed violet or daffodil; Today, the sun streams through the lucid pane As I watch winter pass. The coming green Starts the first returning bird to vain Reveling. The season, wedged between Autumn and spring, is half undone, Soon to fade to earth where it belongs.
Again the land will sing its lilting song, While I sate my hunger for the sun. Shird Prize Si tory Annual Reliof Society Short Story Contest The Hee - Haw Pony Florence Berrett Dunford VERYONE was frowning at Jinny that summer.
This was not unusual, except that things seemed reaching some sort of a crisis.
Father frowned at her because she couldn't talk plain.
Jinny was seven and big for her age, yet no one but mother could understand a thing she said.
Father said this was just a matter of opinion; that mother couldn't really understand Jinny, but only got what she said by some sixth sense that only mothers have.
Nevertheless mother wasn't worried about Jinny because she couldn't talk plain.
When father would make gibes—hoping to make Jinny try harder—or the other children teased her, mother would say calmly, "I had a sister who couldn't talk plain until she was eight." And let it go at that.
Mother worried about Jinny for quite a different reason.
Jinny had red hair, and red hair was not a 'thing to be proud of in those days.
Mother did everything she could for Jinny—dressing her in greens and tans, washing and brushing her hair often. Yet all it did was seem to make it brighter.
With her eighth birthday only ten months away, and Jinny's hair getting more fiery every day, added to the fact that she had green eyes and a bridge Page
152 FLORENCE BERRETT DUNFORD of freckles across her snub nose— Jinny was quite a problem. Yet Jinny couldn't stop even there. She was beginning to make trouble in other ways.
Mother was expecting a new baby, and I knew father worried for fear it wouldn't talk plain. And every little while mother would sigh. And I knew she was being afraid the baby would have red hair. I frowned on my younger sister, too, yet there was one thing we had in common.
That was our adoration for our cousin, Theodore.
Theodore was fourteen, our Uncle Stanley's oldest boy. Yet it was THE HEE-HAW PONY not his age that made him big in our sight. It was the fact that he had a pony. The pony's name was Nig. ) Once or twice a week that summer Theodore would condescend to visit us—his poorer cousins. He would ride over from their neighboring ranch, sit awhile looking down at us from his superior position astride his pinto pony.
When the time came to go, he would make some sign. Jinny, standing there on the ground, awe and adoration in her eyes, would say, "Hot'na Hindoo hee-haw pony." At this the pony would prick up his ears, 'Theodore would give him a nudge with his heels—and off they'd go down the slope towards home.
This little ceremony had been going on all summer, until at last I had come to recognize the words, even though I could not guess their meaning. On this day in late summer Theodore had not come solely to visit Jinny and me. He brought a message from his father. In order to kind of ease the jolt if the baby couldn't talk plain— and in case it had red hair, father 153 was planning to build mother a new room. Uncle Stanley and Theodore had consented to come over and help him hew the trees. After 'Theodore left I went towards the house to deliver his message. But Jinny's silly phrase kept getting in my way. In the house | said, "Mother, what is it Jinny says when Theodore rides away on his pony?"
Mother was pretty; she had brown hair and eyes like mine. She pondered my question a minute and then said, "It must be, "There goes Theodore on his pony.' Yes, of course," she went on, smiling, ""There goes Theodore on_ his? 9? Pony. I turned this over in my mind. It satisfied me and seemed to make sense. But when I started to go outside again, mother stopped me. "Why did you ask that?" she said, frowning. "Has Theodore been saying anything about Jinny's hair?" I couldn't remember. "He brought a message," I said. "Theodore and Uncle Stanley are coming in the morning to help father cut the trees for the extra room." Florence B. Dunford, now of Boise, was born in Menan, Idaho. Tended Ricks College at Rexburg and the University of Utah, and also studied at other universities, specializing in the summer workshops in wniting. In the spring of 1949 she placed second in a contest between the Boise and Caldwell, Idaho, wnters, and during the same year she won first prize in the annual short story contest sponsored by the Idaho Writers' League. She also composes some poetry.
This story—'"The Hee-Haw Pony'—represents Mrs. Dunford's first appearance in any of the Church magazines. Mrs.
Dunford and her husband George M.
Dunford have a son Sam who will receive his law degree from Stanford University this year. Mrs.
Dunford is teaching the literature course in her ward Relief Society. She atAt present, 154 OTHER'S — glance _ lightened. "That's wonderful," she said. But then she added, "Oh, dear, I wonder if that means Homer?" In his way Homer was as much a problem as was Jinny. 'Theodore was fourteen, and I, Kathleen, was twelve; Homer was eight, a year older than Jinny.
Homer was one of those fat, helpless boys, who are always pitying themselves and falling.
When bad luck came it always came to Homer.
Misfortune chased him like a dog. It was our one hope on the day he visited us, that it would not catch up with him.
This was not often, for Homer never rode with Theodore on his pony. But sometimes when Uncle Stanley came over, he would bring Homer along. He would leave him in mothers charge, and mother would immediately put him in mine.
Then everyone would have to be on guard until Uncle Stanley picked him up and took him home again The sun was scarcely up the next morning when Uncle Stanley arrived in his wagon. In it were saws and axes—and as though he would exact payment for his work—Homer. Uncle Stanley jumped down from the tall seat and lifted Homer carefully down, set him carefully on his feet.
Taking him by the hand, he led him to the house and with some instructions left him with mother.
Theodore rode over on his pony. He took the bridle off, gave Nig a little slap on his flanks, and turned him in the corral.
Then he climbed in the back of the wagon, and the three men were off down to the east forty to hew trees. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1950 As soon as they had gone, mother put Homer in my charge. But even this was not enough to take my mind off Theodore.
Only two miles away, I thought yearningly, and I can't see him.
Even the fact that his pony was there didn't help any.
Theodore and his pony belonged together. I hit on the idea that Jinny and Homer and I should lead the pony the two miles to where the menfolk were cutting down trees. "Then Theodore can ride back on his pony," I told mother, "and Homer and Jinny and I can ride back on the wagonload of logs." At first mother couldn't see the sense of this. But she wanted to sew on the little things, and since she would never let us see her—and we kept running in and out of the house, and the time was_ getting short—well, anyway, she finally changed her mind and let us go. I caught the pony myself and mother put the bridle on. It didn't even occur to us that any of us should ride him. He was Theodore's pony.
Mother made sure I knew exactly where the menfolk were cutting down trees. "Down by the river on the east forty," I said, lifting my chin importantly. E| started out about three o'clock when the sun was still high and hot. But once we were down the slope there was plenty of shade. 'There were tall trees like me, and short ones like Jinny; and there were slim trees like Theodore and fat ones like Homer. And most of them were covered with moss, THE HEE-HAW PONY and vines hung down like streamers. I walked in the middle leading the pony, my mind filled with pictures of 'Theodore's delight and surprise when he saw what I had brought him. Homer, the fat, unfortunate one, walked on my left, and Jinny, whom I couldn't understand, on my right. On the way Homer fell over various things.
Once he skinned his nose and it took me a long time to find a stream in order to wipe the trickle of blood off. I could not bear his loud wails, and if I showed up with Homer bawling, I could expect something from my father. It must have been around five o'clock when we reached the place where the menfolk should have been cutting trees. But they were not there now, and as I walked around the clearing, leading the pinto, I could not imagine which direction they might have taken. The hard grassy ground made it impossible to find any wagon tracks. We had gotten along fairly well with Homer in spite of his falling and bawling. But new, when things looked black for us in other ways, he really hurt himself.
There were two stumps a short distance apart, over in the center of the clearing. Homer, it seems, had climbed up on one of these— just to get a clearer view, or perhaps to try and see our folks in the distance. But, being Homer, he could not content himself with standing on one stump. He must try and jump over on the other one.
Suddenly there came a thud and a loud squall. The pony snorted 155 and it was lucky I was even able to hold him. I looked over and saw Homer lying on the ground, writhing as if in agony, reaching for his left ankle.
Gasping with excitement and worry, I gave the reins to Jinny and ran over. For once I really felt sorry for him, though at the same time I could have shaken him for his carelessness. We were in a fix—what with the folks disappearing, and now Homer. I leaned down and touched the injured ankle. It was curious but under my very eyes I could see it swell. It puffed and puffed right there before our eyes. Even Homer's frightened and pained yells were quieted some by the phenomenon. When, at last, it was as big as it seemed it was going to get, it was the size of a small watermelon. And Homer could not move. I looked around me, trying to think of a way out of our predicament. In the few minutes since our arrival, the sun had sunk behind the tall trees. It was already shadowy and cool, even in the clearing. A Short distance away was the river; I could hear it rushing and gushing along. I had never heard such a chilling sound. I looked in the other direction. 'The woods stared back at me. For the first time I was aware there might be something in them besides birds and bees and butterflies. I shivered, and with an effort blinked back the smarting tears of fright and self-pity. I looked down at Homer and then over at Jinny.
There was no use in asking Jinny's advice, I could not understand her. At the moment I felt only anger and contempt 156 for her, helpless as I was with Homer, the blubberer, on my hands— and my sister, my own sister unable to help or make a single intelligible sound!,, I said to Homer, my voice showing my disdain, "Jinny won't be any help at all. I can't understand a thing she says. You will just have to be patient and help me all you 2? Can. OMER nodded. He had ceased crying; the tears were dry on his fat cheeks.
Problem was to get him out of there, and perhaps it occurred to him what might happen if he didn't help.
Being left alone while I went for aid would hurt him more than the pain. It was possible, too, that the swelling had numbed his ankle some.
Jinny was still holding Theodore's pony. I think the idea must have come to all three of us at once —that here was the answer to our prayers.
Homer was trying to sit up and Jinny was leading the pony toward us, jabbering something I could not understand. "Oh, be quiet, Jinny," I cried, "and let me think." My eyes went round the clearing.
They came to rest on the very things that had caused the trouble —the two tree stumps. If we could get Homer upon one of the stumps, I reasoned, surely we could lug him the rest of the way onto the pony.
Jinny could understand, even if she could not be understood. She led the pony over between the stumps and held him, while I pulled Homer closer. It would be, I could see, imposHe realized now our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1950 sible for me to lift the fat one by myself alone. 'Taking a serious chance that the pony might break loose, I wrapped the reins around a stump.
That left Jinny free to help.
Homer grunted and groaned and once or twice cried out with real pain, but we did not desist and at last we had him upon the stump. The pony had been good, standing there very quietly and only once tossing his head. With Homer on the stump, and Jinny trying to hold him there, I hurried round to the other side.
Climbing upon the stump there, I leaned over the pony's back. Then, with Jinny boosting him from behind, and me tugging on his arms and shoulders, we at last got Homer astride the pony. I was so exhausted and relieved that, in spite of being the eldest, I could not contain my emotions any longer and sank down on the stump for a moment.
Covering my face with my hands, I cried a few drops. 'Then, tossing my head and smiling, I hurried round to the other side again. I was only a matter of seconds untying the reins. "You hold on to Homer's good ankle," I told Jinny, in my customary disparaging tone, "and I will lead the pony." I went to the ponys head. "Come on, Nig." The pony did not move.
Growing excited, I jerked on the reins. "Come on, Nig!" Still, he did not move. I forgot myself and screamed at Homer, "Kick him!
Make him go!" But, though Homer tried to prod him with his good foot, the pony wouldn't budge. THE HEE-HAW PONY It was Homer himself who gave the explanation of this. "It's Theodore's pony," he said, the tears making furrows down his cheeks again. "No one ever rides him but 'Theodore." Al this expression of what I should have known—at what I did know, had I stopped to give it thought, all my courage left me. I stopped caring about what happened to Homer; I stopped caring about impressing him with my courage. I slumped down on _ the ground, and my sobs of fright and self-pity blended with those of Homer, then rose above them. I had forgotten all about Jinny. Had the thought of my sister come into my mind, it would only have been to say—as I had heard my father say with a kind of chagrin and anger in his voice—'"Well, now, what good is a girl you can't understand?" I was so put out, so frightened and weary after my exertions in getting Homer on the pony, that after my first wild sobs subsided, I just sat there numbly on the ground. I scarcely paid any attention when I felt Jinny take the reins from my hands. In spite of the fact that she couldn't talk, Jinny was always talking.
This was one of the few times I had seen her silent. I could tell, too, by the excitement in her green eyes—by the way they blinked and danced, that she was going to try something. But, in my deep despair, I was too discouraged to prevent it. I just moved a little to one side and watched her.
Jinny took the reins and, climbing upon the stump, gave them to 157
Homer. Then, climbing down, she took three or four steps and turned around. Clasping her hands behind her, in the attitude I had seen her take so many times before, she looked up at Homer and said, awe and adoration in her voice, "Hot'na Hindoo hee-haw pony." Nothing happened. But sitting there on the ground I began to get my senses back. I called out, "Jinny, stop that nonsense." And I scrambled to my feet. Jinny paid no attention. She was repeating the silly phrase. "Hot'na Hindoo hee-haw pony." This time she seemed to be speaking directly to the pony. At this a peculiar thing happened. The pony pricked up his ears. He turned his head and looked at Jinny—exactly as though he understood her! Homer seemed to be in on it, too. From somewhere he got the sense to nudge the pony with his good foot. 'Then, before my unbelieving eyes, the pony started up and moved down the trail toward home. I stood there staring after them, tears of joy in my eyes. Then I turned to Jinny and said brokenly, "Hot'na Hindoo hee-haw pony." Realizing the words needed some explanation, I said, "There goes Theodore on his pony." 'Then, really realizing, I grabbed Jinny and hugged her. Back home again, with the folks already there, everything was excitement until Homer was made comfortable with pillows and hot packs. Then the attention turned to what Jinny had done. 158
Father looked at it the way I did. He pulled Jinny inside the curve of his arm, and said, his voice tender and not teasing, "Well, if it wasn't my gitl did it." And he added something about if the pony could understand Jinny he guessed it wouldn't be long before we could.
Mother was not impressed. "Of course," she said, as though it was no more than she would have exRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1950 pected of Jinny. And I saw that her eyes were still clouded over by her old worry. Uncle Stanley spoke for the first time. "I was reading the other day," he said, in his most impressive manner, "where red hair is considered very popular for girls."
Then everyone smiled at Jinny. All but Theodore. He smiled at me. Give Me Your Benediction Rose Lee Bond go now, Father, to the earth, from thy presence for the space of one life span.
Viewed in the light of progression's possibilities, and unnumbered ages of eternal years, it seems for just a little while. And yet, dear Father, my heart sorrows at. The thought of being away from you that long. I know I shall be able to commune with you through faith and prayer, but I shall often need your comforting arm sorely. And Father, these hosts of my beloved ones, my friends acquired during my eternities here, protect and preserve them until we meet again. I love them so dearly! Shall I meet some of them in mortality? If I could be sure I would, the fact might | lighten the bitter-sweet step I am about to take, passing from one world to another, dying temporarily to heavenly things, in order to take up residence on earth. When I have accomplished my task, when I have been exposed to good and evil and have overcome the influence of evil; when I have done for every soul that I may, especially my own loved ones, all that a sister might do to assist them; when I have earned a great knowledge of you and understand the joy that I may inherit, help me, Father, to prepare myself meticulously for it.
Help me that I shall not be worse than helpless when, dying to earthly things, I am born into a higher school of experience. How terribly sad one must feel, when stepping from mortality back into spirit existence, if one has not harvested a bountiful righteous increase of knowledge, nor gleaned enough understanding to know or care how many opportunities have been neglected, how many are yet available.
Help me to be ever mindful of my great responsibility as I step forth beyond the veil away from you, Father, along the great and glorious path that leads to eternal progression.
Amid the shadows, sorrows, separations, and suffering of opposition's school of refining, help me to learn, overcome, grow, and come forth exalted.
Help me that I may be worthy of the gift of progression in this mortal life and through the worlds without end to come, that when I come again into your presence you may be able to look upon me with love and as the tears of that wonderful reunion's joy spill across my countenance, smile and speak softly to me: "Well done thou good and faithful servant enter thou into the joy of thy Lord." Women Pioneers of the Press Dr. Carlton Culmsee Dean, School of Arts and Sciences, Utah State Agricultural College, Logan, Utah T'S still news when a woman takes charge of a large newspaper. As evidence, you will recall the recent furore when one woman succeeded another as the dominant figure in a great Washington, D. C. Journal. We have, nevertheless, come a long way from the days when women were deemed creatures incapable of profiting much from intellectual training. It seems strange that there ever was a time when men stared in shocked incredulity at a "lady" who attempted anything more taxing to the brain than fancywork or sketching. Therefore, it is difficult to imagine how painfully women had to strive against the prejudice that denied them real intelligence.
Even so, one ls amazed at the achievements of certain women who pioneered contributions of their sex in journalism. One can conclude only that woman's high ideals must have been irresistibly impelling to cause her to brave the world's wondering scorn and to wield the might of the press to advance her high purposes. You may be surprised to learn that the first daily newspaper, The Daily Courant, was founded in 1702 by a woman. She was an Englishwoman named Elizabeth Mallet. Miss Mallet was not a fiery crusader, but some of her policies were ethically far in advance of her time. She believed that editorial comment should be weeded out of factual news because such comment tended to influence people's judgment. She believed that facts should be allowed to tell their own story, without emotional bias or prejudice. Also, she insisted on attaching "credit lines" to articles she clipped from other papers.
Borrowing material from other journals was common and respectable then, but her practice of acknowledging her debts of the sort is further evidence of her high ethics. Besides, she perceived that her readers could judge the value of the news more accurately if they knew the sources.
Another pioneer woman journalist was Mary K. Goddard.
During most of the Revolutionary War she was the actual editor and publisher of the Maryland Journal of Baltimore. Her brother William had launched the paper, but his responsibilities in organizing a postal system in the warring colonies kept him out of Baltimore much of the time.
Mary would have been better off in one way if he had not returned to Baltimore at all during the war. For William was a blunt, outspoken man of decided views who aroused considerable criticism by articles he published in the Journal. On one occasion he came near being lynched for a criticism of General Washington which he permitted to appear in the paper. But Mary was a strong-minded person as well as a shrewd manager, and she kept the paper going. 'The amount of freePage 159 160 dom that the Journal took was rare in wartime. Cornelia W.
Walter is another interesting woman. When _ her brother Lynde died, she took over the Boston Transcript, which he had founded. She was, according to the journalistic historian F. L. Mott, a "bright and spirited editor," and some of her contemporaries called her brilliant.. She criticized Poe severely on one occasion and, Mott tells us, the poet called her a "pretty little witch." She helped give the Transcript traditions of sound literary taste and culture that made it respected for nearly a century.
Readers of The Relief Society Magazine know of journalistic contributions by Latter-day Saint women, notably Eliza R. Snow, Emmeline B. Wells, Lula Greene Richards, and others in the nine teenth century, but not all may know about the great New England woman editor, Sarah Hale. Sarah Hale started late as a journalist, but she still had time to give half a century to the advancement of women.
Left a penniless widow at thirty-four, Mrs.
Hale attempted to support herself and her five young children by running a small store. But she did not get enough trade, and the venture collapsed. Meanwhile, she was groping her way into professional writing, doing a few newspaper articles and struggling with a novel. N 1827 she brought out Northwood, a Tale of New England. It was the first American novel based on slavery, and it rapidly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1950 achieved success. Moreover, it induced the publishers of the new Boston Ladies' Magazine to employ her as editor. By now Sarah was forty, but she did not let her new job or men's prejudice against women awe her into timidity. She embarked boldly on a series of crusades. 'These attracted attention—some admiring, some shocked, and they built circulation. But Sarah was not interested in mere numbers of readers, in mere financial success. She was dedicated to the education and advancement of women. To improve their lot she persuaded a New York merchant prince, A. 'T'. Stewart, to do a then revolutionary thing—to employ women as clerks. She helped Matthew Vassar establish the first American college for women.
Among her "firsts" were the first girls' industrial school and the first organization to improve working conditions and pay for women. One of th e most striking efforts of her career as a journalist was this: she was the first American to work against child labor through publications. So successful was her "balanced diet" of fashions, recipes, and revolutionary movements, that her readership soared.
Subscribers left other magazines and followed her. As a result, there occurred one of the oddest rivalries in American journalism. Mrs. Hale's only serious competitor in women's journals was a man, Louis Antoine Godey, founder of the noted Godey's Lady's Book. He had attained considerable success, but he saw his light dimmed in comparison with Sarah's brilliant WOMEN PIONEERS OF THE PRESS editing.
Sarah carried too many guns for him. So he sought to join forces with her. For many months in his Lady's Book, he praised her, and finally won out in his aim, while losing the decision in reader interest. He succeeded in obtaining control of the Ladies' Magazine, in submerging it in Godey's Lady's Book, and in persuading Sarah to edit Godey's.
Sarah raised the magazine to new heights of circulation and influence. She campaigned for better care of infants, for women physicians, for slum improvement, for more sensible and healthful clothing for women, for girls' physical education, for labor-saving devices to reduce 161 household drudgery, and for many other common-sense but, at that time, startling changes.
When she began her work women were widely regarded as inferior in mental power and not worth real education.
When she finished her work at the age of ninety, education for women was widely accepted as wise.
Women had achieved a new status which enabled them to wield a greater influence in civilization. Sarah Hale did not achieve this change singlehandedly, but through her brilliant use of powerful organs for shaping opinion, she made great contributions, and must be remembered as one of the influential women of all time. ~ >< Faith Helen M. Horne Between me and the mountains, where blows the good I seek, A stubborn mist is hiding the slopes to summit's peak. But somewhere there's the gleaming of a path to wind, White-silvered through the mists, that I must find. The eyes long used to shadow's darkened sheet Shall yet espy that little moon-white street; Some well-assuring whisper, like an answered prayer, Speak to my heart, "Be patient—it is there."' And by searching, searching, day from hopeful day, Will come that moment—and a glimmering way Will show its silvered track upon the ground. For, because it is the way, it must be found. —_— Spice Grace Sayre He was the salt of the earth, Whose, now, the fault? A marriage requires some sweetening— With the salt. Rain Beulah Huish Sadleir There is nothing in the rain— That brings me melancholy pain; The sky drips down a peaceful song— That calms my heart, the whole day long. An Afternoon With Molly Alice Whitson Norton OLLIE Green stopped a battered car in front of the Dutton's shiny new brick house and tooted the horn three times. A moment later Julia Dutton, groomed in keeping with her swanky new home, came hurrying down the walk. | "Tf you don't mind, Mollie," she said in a bored tone of voice, "I won't go this afternoon. I need to do some shopping downtown." "But I do mind,' Mollie answered, "This is the afternoon you promised to visit the shut-ins with me, and our president will expect a report of the visit." "You could do just as well going by yourself, Mollie, and considering the frame of mind I'm in—" "Maybe you'll change your mind," Molly laughed, "after you've had a few visits with people who really need cheering up." "That's just it," Julia protested. "I don't want to visit folks who need cheering up. I want to be cheered myself."
Mollie swung the door open and Julia reluctantly got in.
Mollie could tell by the expression on her face the mission ahead was not Julia's idea of a pleasant afternoon. "Will it take very long?"
Julia asked, as the little car stopped for the first red light. "T dare say the afternoon will be behind us when we return," Mollie answered. "Seems to me," Julia said presently, "we might think of a better method than going ourselves into the huts and hovels to carry cheer." Page 162
Mollie gave the speaker a quick glance. She had never heard Julia Dutton talk like that before, and instantly Mollie knew something out of the ordinary was disturbing Julia. '"What's troubling you?" Mollie: asked, with a whimsical smile curving her full lips. "Who said I was troubled?"
Julia countered. "Little bird told me,' Mollie chuckled, "so don't try denying it." "Sometimes I almost hate you, Molly," Julia answered in a softer tone of voice, "the way you have of looking through me. All your life," she went on thoughtfully, "you have been able to read my moods." "Generally I've been able to help you out of them, too, haven't I?"
Mollie asked jokingly. "You never tried taking me out visiting the shut-ins before to do it," Julia retorted. "A new experience always bears fruit," Mollie laughed, "and really some of the folks we are visiting this afternoon are wonderful, particularly Mrs. Walton, a little paralytic." "Mrs. Walton," Julia repeated. "T seem to recall a woman by that name in church a few years ago." "Right," Mollie answered. "Mrs.
Walton joined the Church seventy years ago—a girl of fifteen. Now she is eighty-five and confined to a wheel chair; but she really accomplishes more in a wheel chair than many folks do on two good feet. You'll forget your grouch after AN AFTERNOON WITH MOLLY you've visited with Granny Walton for awhile." "IT know I shouldn't be disagreeable ever," Julia answered, "because I have so much to make a woman happy, but Joe told me at breakfast this morning we wouldn't be able to take our usual Florida trip this winter. He's having to help his mother now, or bring her to live with us. And Tommy has to have his tonsils removed and Becky wants a fur coat." 66 ANP all you've got to do is to see that everything goes off right," interrupted Mollie. "T don't have to worry about the finances," Julia admitted, "but if you think managing a family of four is an easv task—then you—you—" Suddenly Mrs.
Dutton paused and a sickly grin rimmed her face. "Excuse me, Mollie," she said softly. "T lost sight of the fact that you not only manage a family of four, but lend a hand to their support." "T love to work for and with my family," Mollie answered. "And sewing, even though it is a tedious job, I love it, and the money I am able to earn with my hands helps out materially.
Only this morning my husband said we'd have to go to the poorhouse if it wasn't for me." Mrs.
Dutton gave the neatly tailored dress Mollie wore a glance and sank a bit more comfortably into the faded cushion of Mollie's car. | "Well, here we are for our first visit," Mollie announced, as she brought the little car to a full stop before a large residence with a boarding and lodging sign in the front window. "Who lives here?"
Julia asked soberly. 163 "Caleb Jones," Mollie answered. "Remember the little old man who came to church Sunday mornings for years wearing a white carnation in his buttonhole?" "Thought he was dead long ago," Julia grunted. "Not yet," Mollie answered, "but heaven will be a better place when his spirit gets there."
Inside the gray walls, Julia shook hands with the shut-in. She was awed to see the eager light in his eyes when Mollie handed him a new biography of Andrew Jackson. "No finer man than Jackson ever lived," chuckled the old man. "I never tire reading about him." For thirty minutes Julia sat listening to a string of merry chatter, in which she realized Mollie had related every incident connected with the church dinner—and for the first time missed by the little shriveled-up figure on the bed. "T feel that I almost attended that banquet in person," he commented when Mollie stopped, "and I am so grateful for the details you gave me about it." The next stop was made at a small drugstore where a blind woman operated a candy counter.
Watching her sensitive hands feel for the various objects ordered by her customers, and her fingers counting the change correctly, brought a strange hurt into Julia's heart. Somehow, the trivial things she had found to irritate and disturb her life, suddenly seemed of little account. "It takes little things like this, Mollie," Julia confided as_ they moved off, "for one to realize her own blessings, doesn't it?" "Through afflictions of others,' 164
Mollie answered, "our eyes are often opened to the blessings we enjoy without giving a thought to." OR a few minutes the women drove along in silence, then Mollie turned the nose of her little rusty car into a narrow street near the milling section of the city. "Not another visit?"
Julia murmured hopelessly. "One more," Mollie answered, "and then we'll be on our way home."
Julia didn't say how glad she would be to have the afternoon behind her, but Mollie could tell by her actions that she would be. "Oh!" exclaimed Julia, as the little car bumped along the unkept street, "why doesn't the city do something about such streets as this?" "Because nobody has petitioned them to fix them," Mollie said. "Somebody's going to," Julia exclaimed with a sudden show of interest. "These people pay taxes as well as we do." Suddenly Mollie's little car rounded a sharp curve and Julia's eyes opened with surprise.
There was a tiny cottage, glistening snow-white beneath the tall trees surrounding it; white curtains fluttered at the windows and the walk was bordered with violets and looked as if it might have been swept only the moment before. "This is Mrs. Walton's little home," Mollie said, 'and a sweeter place in the whole wide world I do not know." A glad hello sounded the minute the little car stopped and, looking around, Julia saw a very small person RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1950 in a rolling chair holding court with three children. "Come in, Mollie," called the voice pleasantly. "I was looking for you." "IT want Mrs.