VOL. 21.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1893.			No. 16.


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England—A Story.  Utah Co. W. S. A.
—S. A. Graham W. S. A. South Bountiful—
Augusta Joyce Crocheron.  Woman's Suffrage
Endorsed. National Couucil of Women—Rachel
Foster Avery.  Acknowledgement.  Historical
and Heroic Deeds of Women—Susan G. Cooke.
Savonarola.  R. S.  Report.  Conference of
Charities.  Notes and News.  Knowledge—
M. E. K. In Memoriam—F.  W. Jackson.
Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Liberty Bell 1893.  U.  W.  P.  C.
Valentine Party.  Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Wheat—L.  L.  G.  Richards.  Our
Baby—Lula.  To Mother—Penn.  Poverty's
Pangs—Steve Sherlock.


WHEAT.

“Twheat, wheat!" sang a bird, one autumn
	morn,
As  I plucked for breakfast some ears of corn;
"Twheat, wheat, wheat, wheat!" and it danced
	with glee,
On the bending limb of an apple tree.
That's a happy song, little bird,' I said,
Your children, and mine, will be amply fed.’
"Th'wheat! ch, ch, ch, th'wheat!" chirked the
	chickens, too,
As from perches and barn-loft they clumsily 
	flew.
'Yes, yes, old rooster,' I answered back,
'You shall have your breakfast, and find no lack;
It's only fair that your family begs,
We give them grain, and they give us eggs.'
"Wheat! Wheat!"  all the farmers were calling
	that day,
As to grain fields and uplands they hurried away.
The reapers and threshers must labor with haste,
Lest the golden kernels should fall to waste;
And with brotherly kindness they lend and they
	borrow—
“I’ll help you to day, and you help me tomor-
	row.”
How Good! and how Great!  Who sendeth the
	rain,
And giveth the seed-time and harvest of grain
Fulfilling a promise, are blessings now pour'd, 
Till we're lacking of room for our grain to be
	stored:
“There’s a surplus,” 'tis said, “send it over the
	sea,
Where they make better clothing, and cheaper
	than we.”
But wait!  are they true, those statistics which
	tell,
That of grain, which to England’s sons we sell,
Much more than is used for bread, each-year,
Is made into whiskey and ale and beer?
And are we friends of humanity, then,
Who furnish the means of debauch to men?
Nay, He who supplieth abundance today,
Hath taught us a surer and nobler way;
To build, like Joseph, wise and discreet,
Strong granaries for our surplus wheat;
Storing it up for a time of want,
When famishing nations our shores will haunt.
Can we, blindly, these sacred duties shirk,
While men are among us, pleading for work? 
May we not give them our gran’ries to build,
With the staff of life have our bins well filled, 
That should floods, or drouth, spoil a crop of
	wheat,
Our children may still have bread to eat?
	L. L. G. RICHARDS.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

			XXIX.
	LADY ANNA WALTON grew more un-
happy as the time flew by and Maitland
still remained so much away, not even his
mother could persuade him to give up out-
side gaieties and sports, though she sought
to influence him in every tender way. She
reminded him of his obligations and the 
solemn promises made at the altar but it
was of no avail, he could not be convinced
of his wrong doing. She appealed to his
love for Anna and his determination to
marry her in the face of opposition as hav-
ing been the cause of serious difficulty be-
tween his father and herself and closed an
eloquent appeal by saying, "My dear boy
are you going to bring more sorrow to my
already heavily burdened life, your father
would never cease to reproach me with
befriending your cause in the matter, upon
which you sought my interference and
which to me was a much greater trial than
you could possibly know—but let the past
suffice, and try to be a man worthy the po-
sition you hold as the only son and heir of
the Walton estates and title, instead of
pursuing a course which must eventually
bring ruin to all our hopes."
	Maitland’s reply was unsatisfactory and
childish, he was not going to be kept in
leading strings, he could not endure
woman’s tears and reproaches, he was 
looking forward to a position of more con-
sequence than to settle down at Walton
Hall to represent H. Shire and he
would be a good husband withal, besides,
said he what does Anna know about men
any way her father was an old tyrant and
lived abroad, a fast life, most likely, and
she can’t say I have ever been unkind."
	His mother felt remonstrating useless,
his father would be no use in advising and
she spoke to Mrs. Bland about the Doctor.
She knew he must have noticed how very
inattentive Maitland was to his wife, and
though the fact was humiliating, too much
depended upon it in the present case to
admit of delay. Already she had warned
her son by telling him Anna’s mother had
died after giving birth to her child, she
bitterly regretted having consented to his
living in London, her hope now lay in the
influence of Dr. Bland. Everything that
Lady Walton Sen. and her cousin Jane 
could devise to amuse and entertain the
young wife was carried into effect, and she
bore up wonderfully in outward demeanor
considering what she suffered inwardly.
Her elaborate infant wardrobe was a
gratification, much of it the artistic work of
her own dainty fingers that had all the
deftness and ingenuity of a French woman,
and she would sometimes speak to her
cousin of her future expectations, saying,
"When we have a little one it will surely
be a tie to bind Maitland to his home,"
though tears and sobs would often choke
her utterance.
	Finally the event transpired, one morning
when Maitland had been absent all night
and though messengers went in search of
him, he was not to be found at any of the

[column 2]
places he was known to frequent. He
came in just in time to hear the announce-
ment, of the birth of a son, and that Lady
Walton was alarmingly and dangerously ill.
	Shocked beyond all control and weak
from having been up all night the young
husband swooned in the ante-room and his
valet had to summon a physician.
	Dr. Bland could not leave his patient and
a strange physician was called in, Lady
Walton Sen. left the unconscious young
mother to come to her son’s couch, her
heart nearly breaking with grief that he 
should have been so indifferent as to absent
himself from home at such a time, and
mortified that he was so physically weak as
to succumb when his assistance, courage and
moral support was most needed. Poor
unfortunate fellow she thought to yield
thus to the seductive temptations of those
who care for naught but pleasure and riot,
who live for show and sensation, forgetful
that she herself was in some respects
answerable for the society and allurements
that had led him from the path of right and
perhaps into sin and wickedness. Maitland
soon recovered and when he was himself
again his mother informed him of his good
fortune that the boy was hearty and well
(a handsome child) and though Anna was
still weak and faint, and must have no ex-
citement, yet the danger was comparatively
over, but added, “you will have to change
your habits of life, for Anna’s life depends
upon the course you pursue, surely this
will be a lesson, supposing she had died and
you away, we knew not where, no one
could possibly ascertain your whereabouts
we tried in vain to find you.”
	Maitland was too much stricken to reply
and only begged to be allowed to see his
wife and child.” I will ask the Doctor when
you can be admitted, but you must promise
me beforehand that there shall not be a
scene, even if you are reproached by word
or look, otherwise I will not permit you to
go in for Mrs. Bland who has never left her
cousin for one moment during the night is
indignant at your conduct and well she
may be.” Maitland was too much morti-
fied to reply and he really loved his wife in
his own fashion, but the prize was now his
own and he held it lightly as many do that
which has been eagerly sought beforehand.
	For some weeks Maitland was attentive,
he seemed quite changed, his wife was
slowly recovering, and his mother had
special need of his assistance for the Doc-
tors prouounced his father's case hopeless;
in fact Lord Walton’s departure from life
was fast approaching. He was most of the
time wandering in his mind and would talk
much of the past, and of Sir Edward, and
when he was told the baby was to be
Christened insisted upon the boy being call-
ed after his maternal grandfather. Within
three months from the birth of Lady Anna's
child, the death and burial of Lord Henry
Walton had taken place, the house in Lon-
don was closed; and the widow, her son, 
his wife and boy installed at Walton Hall
in Herefordshire. Dr. and Mrs. Bland had
returned to their home near the old castle
of the Hilliards and things seemed to quiet


down once more; some anxiety was manifest
about the absent ones Mr. Harrison and
Clair, this was the only thing that disturbed
the evenness of the sweet spring time.
	In the settlement of the Walton estate all
had been most satisfactory, Anna's health
was improving daily and little Edward was
a very promising child.
	One evening when Dr. and Mrs. Bland
were at Walton Hall the conversation
turned upon the events that had transpired
since “Cousin Jane” had taken up her
residence at the Castle, and Mrs. Bland
ended by saying, “what will come next i
wonder, somehow it seems to me the quiet
we are having now only presages a storm,
some important change.” “Do not say
that,” all the party exclaimed at once,
"you are such a prophet."
	“Surely only good can come after the sor-
row that has been,” said Lady Walton,
“but perhaps it is my going away that is in
the wind, though I have not breathed it to
any one, I have fully determined to go to
Italy.” “You are not going to leave us so
soon with this gloom hanging over us from
the recent bereavement?” said the son ad-
dressing his mother.
	“Unless you decide to go with me I cer-
tainly shall, for my health is failing, the
strain upon me, with one shock after anoth-
er is telling and I want to regain my former
vigor and elasticity of spirits, and for years
I have longed to go, now my desire can be
gratified I am my own misstress,” and the
lady burst into tears in spite of her character-
istic self-possession.  And so they separated
for the night, with some misgivings about
the future, because of the sadness that per-
vaded the company when even a temporary
breaking up of the family circle was alluded
to.  Lady Walton had but few preparations
to make for her journey, and only a few
days following the conversation on the sub-
ject left for Italy taking with her a lady
friend as companion, one with whom she had
formery been intimate, a maid and an at-
tendant who had traveled much with his
master (Lord Walton) in foreign parts.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


UTAH CO. W. S. A.

	AT the Convention in Provo recently,
new officers were chosen for the W. S. A.
the coming year.
	Mrs. Patten announced to the ladies the
object of the meeting and Mrs. S. A.
Graham was nominated as temporary secre-
tary and the business was then proceeded
with.
	Mrs. M. John suggested that the officers
of last year be voted to hold the same
offices. Mrs. E. Bullock stated that she en-
dorsed the sentiments of Mrs. John. Mrs.
H. Horrocks moved that Mrs. J. H. Patten
be nominated as president for the coming
year. Mrs. Bullock put it before the meet-
ing for acceptance which was carried unani-
mously.
	Mrs. A. K. Smoot made some very good
suggestions in regard to suffrage, after
which President Patten then took the chair
and made some very good and interesting
remarks. It was suggested by the ladies
to give the president power to choose her
own vice-presidents and other officers.
	The President made the following choice:
Mrs. S. A. Graham, secretary, and Mrs. M.
Olson, assistant Mrs. J. B. Snyder, Mrs.
M.Wilkins and Mrs. E. McBride, vice-
presidents. Mrs. Doolan, Mrs. Devey,
Mrs. E. J. Bennett, Mrs. M. Horrocks,
Mrs. M. R. Beesley, Mrs. E. Ashworth,


Mrs. Harrison, Mrs. M. E. Nelson and
Mrs. D. Billings, executive committee.
	Mrs. Bullock read from an eastern paper,
and made some interesting remarks in favor
of suffrage.
	The meeting took a recess until 2 o’clock
and the members enjoyed the dinner that
was prepared in the vestry, after which the
executive committee reported that they had
chosen Mrs. E. J. Bennett, as chairman.
	The afternoon session commenced at 2
o’clock in the vestry of the old tabernacle.
Meeting was opened by singing, prayer by
Mrs. S. Cluff, and singing. Minutes of
last meeting were read and accepted, and
report of the local organization also read
and accepted. A financial report of the
last year was also read and approved; also
a monthly paper was read by the editor,
Mrs. M. A. Till. A vote of thanks was also
rendered her for the able way that she
edited the paper, and she was chosen as
editor for the coming year. The names of
the officers of the association were put be-
fore the meeting for acceptance. The presi-
dent then called Mrs. Ashworth to sing,
which she did in a very able manner.
	The speakers were Mrs. A. K. Smoot,
Mrs. M. Daniels, Mrs. L. McBride and Mrs.
R. Doolan. They gave lengthy and interest-
ing remarks. Meeting then adjourned for
one month. Benediction by Mrs. S. Good-
man.S. A. GRAHAM, Sec.


W. S. A. SOUTH BOUNTIFUL.

Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	THE Woman’s Suffrage Association of
South Bountiful, was reorganized Feb. 13th
1893, as follows, for the coming year.
	Pres. Rose Ellen Hatch, First Vice
Pres. Sarah A. Howard, Second Vice Pres.
Maria T. Hatch, Third Vice Pres. Emma
Moss, Cor. Sec. Augusta Joyce Crocheron.
Sec. Jane A. Hatch, Treas. Sarah P. Moss,
Chairman Ex. Com. Phebe Hales,
Members Eveline Benson, Mary Ann Page,
Eliza Nelson, Sarah A. Atkinson.
	Auditors, Wm. Page, Samuel Howard.
	Pres. Lucy A. Clark and Mrs. Mary
Clark of Farmington were present, and
three new members joined. All present in
turn addressed the meeting, congratulating
the retiring officers upon the success of the
organization during the past year and
predicting an equal advance for the coming
one.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	Cor. Sec’y.


WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE ENDORSED.

	“The following is an extract from the North
Western Live Slock Journal of Cheyenne of the
17th. inst. Yesterday afternoon Mr. Hurd of
Evanston, introduced the following joint resolu-
tion and it passed the house unanimously, as it
will most likely the senate to day. The Demo-
crat takes pleasure in concurring and seconding
a demand for the universal enfranchisement of
women.
	The resolution is as follows:”
	“Be it resolved by tbe second legislature
of the state of Wyoming.
	That the possession and exercise of suf-
frage by the women in Wyoming for the
past quarter of a century has wrought no
harm and has done great good in many
ways; that it has largely aided in banish-
ing crime, pauperism and vice from the
state, and that without any violent or op-
pressive legislation; that it has secured
peaceful and orderly elections, good govern-
ment and a remarkable degree of civiliza-


tion and public order, and we point with,
pride to the facts that after nearly twenty-
five years of woman suffrage not one
county in Wyoming has a poor house, that
our jails are almost empty, and crime, ex-
cept that committed by strangers in the
state, almost unknown, and as the result of
experience we urge every civilized com-
munity on earth to enfranchise its women
without delay.
	Resolved, that an authenticated copy of
these resolutions be forwarded by the gover-
nor of the state to the legislature of every
state and territory in this country, and to
every legislative body in the world; and
that we request the press throughout the
civilized world to call the attention of their
readers to these resolutions.”


NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

	THE members of the Board of general
officers of the National Council feel that
they have gained, in the new Vice-Presi-
dent of the organization, Mrs, Frances E.
Bagley of Detroit, an enthusiastic and able
fellow-worker. Mrs. Bagley has a broad
comprehension of the idea and scope of the
Council, and great faith in its future as well
as a deep sympathy with its general work.
	It is an advantage to the Council that, of
its five general officers who hold their
positions by election of the representatives
of the organizations which compose the
Council, none are themselves representatives
of any of the thirteen organizations in
membership in the Council. The Council
is at liberty to select its general officers
without regard to their official connection
with its members. This leaves its officers
free to devote their thoughts and energies
to the general good of the whole body and
they do not have to feel that in so doing
they are neglecting the interests of any one
organization, as would be the case were they
selected from among the Presidents and
Delegates of the Associations which make
up the National Council of Women of the
United States.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
	Cor. Sec. N. C. W.


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT.

	THE ladies of the Salt Lake County
World’s Fair board desire to express
through the papers their appreciation of
the very liberal contributions received for
the lunches, recently given to raise means
for the Utah exhibit at the Columbian ex-
position, from the following firms:
	Mr. Porter of the Templeton, Globe
Bakery, C. B. Durst, Wasatch Meat Market,
Wiscombe and Co., Webb and Feveryear,
Findley Brooks, W. L. Price and Co., Bar-
low and Thompson, Glenfield and Co.,
Kahn Bros., Hanson and Co. and clerks.
Z. C. M. I. Cunnington and Co., G. L.
Davis, Goldburg and Simon, Hepworth
and Sons, Eclipse, John McDonald, H.
Sherwood, Knight and Co., Deseret Meat
Market, Hobbs Creamery, W. S. Hender-
son, David James and Co. French Steam
and Hand Laundry.
	We also feel very grateful to Mr. Bechtol
for tendering us the use of the Walker
House cafe, and for numerous other cour-
tesies and to all the ladies who contributed
or rendered assistance. We take this op-
portunity of thanking the Deseret Evening
News, and Salt Lake Herald who have
always given the space in their papers the
ladies desired for World’s Fair work.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OUR BABY.
[Affectionately inscribed to Sister Minerva E.
	Knowlton, after the death of her infant son
	Afton.]
			Sing softly, low zephyrs,
				O’er newly made graves;
			While birds gently warble,
				And bright brooklet laves;
			Our baby, Sweet Afton,
				Might hear, should ye weep;
			Sing lullaby, softly—
				Disturb not his sleep!

			Ye starry-eyed Angels,
				Of mercy and love,
			Who watch little children
				In fair homes above;
			Ye see Father always—
				Our lone message bear;
			Remember, the baby,
				Sweet Afton is there.

			And Jesus, Thou solace
				Of mortals who weep,
			In thy holy service
				This mother’s heart keep;
			Her baby, Sweet Afton,
				Has gone from her sight;
			But Thy “Yoke is easy,”
				Thy “burden is light.”
									LULA.


TO MOTHER.

AH, yes, tis’ mother’s birthday!
	Can it be she’s growing old?
For three-score years have passed away
	Since she the light did first behold.

Yes, sixty years have swiftly flown,
	Since that holy angel of life and love,
Descended from the heavenly throne,
	With that precious soul from God above.

And yet her eyes remain as blue,
	And bright as on the fateful day,
And still her cheeks retain their hue,
	As modest rose in month of May.

Her hair has scarcely changed its shade,
	Ah, no, to me thou still art young,
As when beside thy knee I played,
	While baby songs to me were sung.

Though sorrow oft didst cloud thy sky,
	And thy heart strings were wrung with grief,
T’was God who thus thy faith did try,
	T’was he who also brought relief.

Thou did’st prove an obedient daughter,
	To those parents now on heaven’s shore,
Thou hast been a true companion,
	A noble, kind mother, yea, more;

Tongue or pen could never tell,
	The great love I now bear for thee,
As there flits across my mind
	The loving care thou has’t had o’er me.

To thee I owe my life my all
	Thou didst teach my heart and lips to pray,
I scarcely know thy priceless worth,
	Until from thee I am away.

May God protect and bless thee mother,
	Your sorrow and trouble be of the past,
Still may you many birthdays see,
	And each prove happier than the last.
								PENN.


POVERTY'S PANGS.

A MOTHER and two little children,
	Sat in a cabin one night,
They could scarcely see each other,
	For the stars were their only light.
The little ones dying from hunger,
	Had sat thus for many an hour,
While their poverty stricken father
	Had gone begging for fuel and flour.


They startle at every footstep,
	His return they anxiously wait,
At last they think they hear him,
	Coming through the gate.

They run to the door to meet him;
	But alas! They only find,
That the creaking of the garden gate,
	Was caused by the howling wind.

Broken hearted they lay down
	In their mother’s arms to rest,
Their little faces sick and pale,
	Against her heaving breast.

Through their little windows,
	Flashes of lightning leap,
But all is still in the cabin,
	Its inmates are asleep.

At last the lightning ceases,
	The rain comes down no more;
The father returns with coal and wood
	And raps at the cabin door.

No little ones came to greet him,
	As they have often done before,
He raps a little harder
	And then breaks in the door.

The fire is out, the room is cold,
	To his wife he calls in vain, 
But the only response that greets him,
	Is the dripping of the rain.

As he gropes his way in the darkness,
	O’er the floor with heavy tread,
He stumbles o’er their lifeless forms,
	And cries, “My God! they’re dead!”

He is now a raving maniac,
	And when asked the cause of his fate,
Relates the pitiful story
	Of the help that came too late.
					STEVE SHERLOCK.


HISTORICAL AND HEROIC DEEDS
			OF WOMEN.

	BOARD OF LADY MANAGERS, WORLD'S 
			COLUMBIAN COMMISSION.

				CHICAGO, February 1, 1893.
To the State Board and Committees:
	THE board of lady managers suggests
that the committees in each state classify
statistics in an approximately uniform man-
ner, and recommends the following
scheme.
	1. Statistics in regard to women in their
connection with the industries and profes-
sions. (This will include those in domestic 
service, factories, stores, schools, journal-
ism, independent business, etc.)
	2. Statistics in regard to the associated
efforts of women. (This will include liter-
ary clubs, religious societies, church
societies, reform associations, etc.)
	3. Statistics in regard to the work of
women in philanthropy, reform, and in
public service. (This will include homes,
asylums, reformatories, etc., founded by
women; prisons, etc., administered by wo-
men.)
	4. The status of women under the laws 
of the state. (This will include the politi-
cal status of women.)
	5. Concise statistical statement of no-
table things done by women. (This would
include deeds of heroism, bequests, scien-
tific or historical collections, unusual
positions held by appointment, achievement
etc.
	6. Population, male and female; crimi-
nal population, pauper population, defec-
tive population. (The last three give both
male and female.)
	These statistics should be in the form of


charts mounted in winged frames, in order
to be easily inspected, and also to occupy
as little space as possible.
	In addition to the charts already named,
it is recommended that a brief but compre-
hensive monograph accompany each state
exhibit of statistics, which would embody
in convenient form the salient points and
the conclusions legitimately deduced from
the statistics.
	Our foreign committees of women are
preparing statistics in a comprehensive and
extremely interesting manner. In the
more progressive countries of Europe this
line of work has attained a high degree of
perfection; their long experience enabling
them to adopt effective methods.
	It is hoped that every state and territory
in the United States will send to the board
of lady managers statistics that will not
only reflect credit upon the intelligence
and energy of American women, but will
elicit from these recorded facts some broad
principles, which will encourage women
everywhere, and also lead men to recognize
the importance of women as factors in in-
dustrial and social effort.
					SUSAN G. COOKE,
Secretary Board Lady Managers.


OLD FRIENDS MEET.

	MRS. M. ISABELLA HORNE gave a party
on the evening of February 3rd, in honor
of her daughter Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton
who was here on a visit of a few weeks
from Provo, and anxious to meet her old
friends with whom she had been on such
intimate terms during her girlhood and
early married life previous to her removal
from this city. Mrs. C. H. Clayton was a
great favorite among the circle of her
acquaintances, both for her many attractive
social qualities and also for her musical
voice, and willingness to oblige and gratify
her friends; she has added to many an
entertainment by her sweet voice in song
and has been a faithful and diligent worker
in literary and other societies. Mrs. Horne’s
party was a very pleasant affair socially and
the refreshments were delicious and hand-
somely served.
	For many years Bro. and Sister Horne
have been in the habit of entertaining, in
fact their hospitality has passed into a
proverb, and one often hears the remark, the
good times we have had, the songs we sung
and the games we played at “the old home
of the Horne’s,” before the young folks
were married and went away.


MISS HALSTEAD, sister of Secretary
Noble’s Wife, has been engaged to write an
article on “The Social Life of Washington
from the Earliest Administration to the
Present day,” for a souvenir volume pre-
pared by women for the World’s Fair.
	IN the California Legislature, the bills to
give school and municipal suffrage to wo-
men have been favorably reported by the
committee.
	MRS. JACOB BRIGHT has an article, on
“The Laws Which Affect, Women’’ in the
February number of the Young Woman,
London, which also contains a paper on
“The Young Woman in Society,”' by
Frances Willard.
	IN New Mexico, a bill extending full suf-
frage to women has just passed the House
of Representatives.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter. 

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	FEBRUARY 15th, 1893.


[Column 1]
		LIBERTY BELL 1893.

	THE women of the United States have 
shown themselves somewhat ingenious as
well as patriotic in inventing ways and
methods of celebrating by means of practi-
cal exhibits for the Columbian Exposition. 
One of the latest suggestions is a proposed 
Liberty Bell, a duplicate of the Indepen-
dence Hall Bell in Philadelphia; this bell to
be made of historic material, so far as such
can be obtained. 
	A Circular of information issued in con-
nection with the work, says in addition to
the title "and as a Permanent Missionary
of Liberty and Peace."
	"Wm. O. McDowell, Chairman Organiz-
ing Committee, Human Freedom League, 
and Founder of the Societies of the Sons of
the American Revolution and of the 
Daughters of the American Revolution etc.
in writing to Miss Minnie F. Mickley, Re-
gent Liberty Bell Chapter, Daughters of 
the American Revolution; says what
could be more appropriate for mottoes and
texts than an exact duplicate of the Liberty
Bell, "Proclaim liberty throughout all the
land to all the inhabitants thereof," and 
"Glory to God in the highest, on earth
peace good will toward men;" this Bell he
thinks should be placed in the most ap-
propriate place in the coming Exposition at
Chicago and afterwards located either at
Liberty Island, Bunker Hill, or the Nation-
al Capital. He also thinks the Bell should
be taken from place to place whenever
there is a World's Exhibition; and adds
one is expected in Paris, France in 1900.
He also suggests in the same letter.
	"That the Board of Lady Managers at
Chicago shall be its custodian, and shall ar-
range for its location, and have charge of
its use, that if the example of America is
repeated and a Board of Lady Managers 
appointed in connection with following ex-
hibitions, that they shall be its custodians
while at the exhibition that they represent.
The use of the bell is to be as follows:
	With the rising of the sun it shall ring
out joyous peals of welcome. At sunset
it shall bid farewell to the closing day.
At 9 o'clock in the morning on the an-
niversaries of the following events and
those of a kindred character pertaining to
the world's progress toward liberty and
peace, the bell shall ring forth in tones of
celebration.
	July 4th, Declaration of Independence
1876. April 30th. in celebration of the
completion of our present form of govern-
ment in its present form by the inaugura-

[Column 2]
tion of George Washington in 1789 as the
first President of the United States. Sep-
tember 17th. the adoption of the Constitu-
tion by the Continental Congress 1787.
December 7th. ratification of the State of 
Delaware 1787 she being the first state to 
ratify the Constitution. The anniversary
of the dates of the different states or their
admission into the Union. April 30th an-
niversary of the Louisiana purchase 1803.
February 22nd, the acquiring of Florida
and the Spanish possessions in 1819.
	May 3rd. anniversary of the adoption of
a Constitutional form of government by
Poland in 1791, also the anniversary of the
adoption of a Republican form of govern-
ment by all the different nations of the
earth from date of the Swiss Federation, up
to that of Brazil including not only Repub-
lics, but governments constitutional where
the control of finances is left to representa-
tives elected by the people, it being as-
sumed that where this is the case the 
plutocratic or hereditary principle, in so far
as it remains in their government will soon
come to an end.
	October 21st. of each year anniversary
of the discovery of America by Columbus,
1492. September 3rd. anniversary of the 
signing of the treaty of peace between 
Great Britain and America 1783. Febru-
ary 6th. anniversary of the signing of the
treaty of recognition and assistance by
France in 1776. December 24th, signing
of the treaty in 1814, concluding the war
of 1812, that freed the commerce of the 
United States from the exactions of the
mother country and established our rights
upon the ocean.
	April 9th, the anniversary of the re-
establishment in 1865 of peace between the
States. May 8th, the signing of the 
agreement to arbitrate the Alabama Claim
in 1871. May 7th, the Behring Sea diffi-
culty 1892. January 1st, the Emancipa-
tion Proclamation in 1863. March 3rd,
the freeing of the serfs in Russia 1863.
November 4th, the anniversary of William
Penn's treaty of peace in 1682, with the
Indians.
	The anniversaries of events that, in the
opinion of the Lady Board of Managers, are
sufficiently noteworthy, or if no such Board
shall exist in the opinion of the General
Board of Managers, such historic days
marking the world's progress by evolution
or revolution toward the day when "the
sword shall be beaten into the ploughshare
and the spear into the pruning hook, and
men shall learn the art of war no more."
	"At 12 o'clock noon on the anniversaries
of the death of the 'creators of liberty,'
it shall toll giving the number of strokes
that shall announce their age at the time of 
their death."
	It has been estimated that the cost of the
bell will be $6.000 dollars; the delivery
and setting in the tower at Chicago ready
for use 500 dollars. All proper allowances
to be made for copper and tin and other
metals used at full market value.
	Committees have already been appointed
from several large societies, (national or-
ganizations) and also a Committee made up
of one lady suggested by the Governor of
each State and Territory in the Union and
by the President of each Republic in the
world. Also by a lady or gentleman sug-
gested by the executive of each one of the
great patriotic societies of the world, and
such other persons as by their life work
have shown themselves peculiarly fitted to
make a work like this successful, and to

[Column 3]
give to the bell thus created the largest in-
fluence for God, liberty, humanity and right.
	The question as to how the means shall
be obtained to secure this bell has been agi-
tated largely in many ways and after all it
is as yet perhaps somewhat uncertain what
can be gathered, or we have very few facts
to state as yet. It has been proposed to use
all sorts of metal relics, even cannon and to
fuse in the composition gold, silver, copper,
bronze and nickel. Perhaps in our next
issue we may be able to give more positive
information concerning this bell.
	The lady whom Gov. Thomas has ap-
pointed to look after this matter in Utah is
Mrs. W. S. McCornick and she will be
glad to hear from any one willing to con-
tribute money or articles of value to be
used in the work. All articles should be
accompanied with a brief history of the
relic whatever it may be and the name and
address of the donor. The women of this
Territory should be as zealous and as ener-
getic in this matter as those of any other
part of the Union, and should show their 
interest by their good works in agitating
the subject and getting contributions for-
warded to Mrs. McCornick as early as pos-
sible. Any one desiring further infor-
mation as to articles, money, etc. should
write direct to Mrs. McCornick's, residence
No. 1, Centre St. Salt Lake City.
	Penny contributions are acceptable, in
fact it is thought, by some, that penny
contributions from children, all over the
land, would alone be sufficient.


U. W. P. C. VALENTINE PARTY.

	MRS. L. S. DICKINSON entertained the
Utah Woman’s Press Club at her residence,
423, 2nd, South St., in this City on St.
Valentine’s Eve, February 13th. Her
pretty parlors were brilliantly lighted and
everything presented the appearance of
festivity. The lady is a graceful and
charming hostess, and the occasion will
long be remembered by those who were
present, as one of the most enjoyable, social
entertainments of the season.
	The ladies were each expected to tell a
tale or reminiscence of St. Valentine’s Day,
or something connected with the origin or
the cause of the celebration, and one or
two responded with incidents, legends, etc.
but for the most part the time was occu-
pied in admiring the various relics and
Indian articles in Mrs. Dickinson’s unique
collection of curios, which seemed to be
almost a private museum. Indeed the
evening was not half long enough to see
and hear of these interesting things. 
	Mrs. Bang who has lived in Arizona, and
Colorado gave some very entertaining ac-
counts of her varied experience in  these
historic places, where the ancient inhabi-
tants lived and flourished long ago, and of
the finding of old and queer specimens of
various sorts of things.
	Miss Burnham, recently from the San
Juan Valley in Utah and New Mexico told
the ladies of the mounds and cliff dwellings,
pottery, and of the habits, customs and
work of the present tribe of Indians in those
localities, particularly of the Navajo wo-
men and their very handsome blankets.
	In fact there was so much delightful
conversation that the hours flew, by all, too
swiftly and the guests were so absorbed in
the details of Indian life, and the long ago,
that it vas difficult to come down to the
present and common place topics.


Miss Nevada V. Davis recited in a very
pleasing style the humorous poem, 
"Zekiel's Courtship" the young lady has a
very clear, well modulated voice.  She
has a charming naivete style which few
possess and is always attractive.
	The refreshments were delicate, cakes,
candies and delicious coffee and the guests
were enthusiastic in their praises of the
unique entertainment.  When bidding
good night each one was presented with the
poem, given below tied with dainty ribbon,
in booklet form, as a souvenir of St. Valen-
tines's Eve. 1893.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FRIENDSHIP'S SONG.

THOUGH the scenes of my life change,
	And I wander afar from you,
For me, there will be no exchange
	Of the old friend, for the new.

﻿As memories of the olden time,
	Memories of friends tried and true,
Come to me as a merry chime,
	I will think, dear friend, of you.

I'll think of you, beside the stream
	Where we sat in that golden time,
When life was one sweet dream,
	With only threads of fancy to wind.

When the flowers were in bloom,
	And the birds sang all day long;
We sat in the twilight's gloom,
	And sang the same sweet, old song.

Sang of the days of long ago,
	Days in the deep, shadowy past,
When life was all of crimson aglow,
	And winter had no whitening blast.

To us, the ocean of time rolled on,
	And the waves of peace and joy,
Sang of friendship's glad song,
	Friendship, pure as gold, without alloy.
				MRS. LEWIS S. DICKINSON.
SALT LAKE CITY, 1893.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion, will be held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms in this
City, Friday March 17th, 1893.  This will
be an important time in view of the Temple
dedication and the work for the Columbian
Exposition and the several branches in the
County should be ably represented that
there may be a proper understanding of
what is expected.  There will be two meet-
ings, one at 10 a. m. and one at 2 p. m.
and no doubt much valuable instruction
will be given on matters of grave impor-
tance.
	THE evening of February 10th, Mrs.
Mary S. Horne gave a pleasant party at her
residence 532, S. West Temple in this City.
The evening was spent in social conver-
sation and was very enjoyable.  The re-
freshments were all of home cooking
cream biscuits steaming hot, and other
luxuries and nothing could have been more
delicious, or more daintily served than the
refreshments were at this five o'clock tea
by the young ladies of her family, Mrs.
William Horne, Mrs. George Horne and
Miss Nettie Horne. Among those present
were Mesdames Z.  D.  H.  Young, B.  W.
Smith, M.  Isabella Horne, Sarah Cooper,
M. W. Wilcox, E. S. Taylor, E. J. Steven-
son, Etta Ellerbeck, C. Rockwell, M. G.
Taylor, and others.  The writer was also
one of the guests and passed a most delight-
ful evening.  Such pleasant social meetings


bring together in sweet companionship
those that would othewise seldom meet in
these busy days.  Life is so full of work
that some of the workers have need of these
seasons of communion and rest.
	THE Pacific Coast Women's Press As-
sociation have established a monthly peri-
odical at San Francisco "The Bulletin,"
