Vol. 21. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1892	       No. 12.


CONTENTS:
	The Christmas of the Pioneers—Augusta Joyce
Crocheron.  Angelina—A Story—W. Crouch-
U.W. P. CLUB—Gladys Woodmansee.  A Pleas-
ant Evening.  One of a String of Pearls—
Selected.  Columbus.
	EDITORIAL:—A Historic House. World’s Fair
and Silk Industry.  A Happy Event.  Christmas
Time.  Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Preparation—L. L. Greene Richards.
Communings—L. M. H.  Remembered—S. R. E.


PREPARATION.
So much is said, so much is done,
To make old Christmas merry, 
With pleasant jokes and guileless fun,
It should be joyous, very.
Bright hopes, and little cause for fear,
With blessings crown the closing year. 

Since the first this old year to us came—
Take now a retrospection; 
What have we earned of praise or blame,
Of favor or correction?
I said ‘‘have we,” I’ll say have I;
My neighbor’s case I need not try.

But on my own, of right I sit,
As Jury, Judge and Marshal;
And though I find grave flaws in it, 
I still must be impartial;
And state, the evidence I find,
Shows faults, but motives not unkind.

And here, (in common phrase,) I’ll start 
To weeding my own garden,
By asking, from my inmost heart, 
My friends’ and neighbors’ pardon,
Wherein I’ve offered anything,
That could distrust or censure bring. 

And humbly, too, I wish to say,
To all who may have striven,
For you, as for myself I pray,
That all may be forgiven;
And meet, from disputations free,
The grand year, Eighteen ninety-three.

Again, unto myself I’ll speak;
To concentrate my labors,
I’ll earnestly and kindly seek
To bless my poorer neighbors.
Religion undefiled and pure, 
Means, visit and relieve the poor:

And from the world, its sins and strife, 
To keep myself unspotted;
If this I do, I’ll lead the life
To faithful saints allotted.  
God grant, that through the coming year,
My page may truly thus appear.

And give Thy people grace and pow’r, 
To make full preparation, 
For that sublime and august hour—
Thy Temple’s Dedication;
With all that’s said, and all that’s done, 
In this, oh may Thy Saints be one!
Dec. 1892.		L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
FOR THE EXPONENT:
THE CHRISTMAS OF THE PIONEERS

	Christmas is coming! Happiness and 
luxury are in the woods, happiness and 
comfort, for a brief season even for the
poor. 

[Column 2]
	With these words comes a reflection up-
on the first Christmas ever held in this val-
ley, and that by the Mormon Pioneers.
Perhaps the first place in all Christendom,
that the first Christmas has been celebrated 
by them, the Mormon people. Not the 
far-famed city then an oasis in the vast
wilderness of sage brush, watered by its 
one crystal canyon stream then unnamed.
But, in their wagons, tents and hastily con-
structed cabins, a merry, a thankful Christ-
mas, for there were no enemies, no
persecutions, all was hope and faith in the
promise given them. Have they forgotten?
Have they ceased to repeat the legend of 
those days to the children and grandchildren
who have grown up a populouos multitude
around them? Or, can these children 
realize the scenes that in future years shall
be as a romance to historians? Do those
Pioneers sing to the little ones the songs
that belonged to their time? I remember 
hearing one once, and the refrain was this:

"A life on the desert plains,
A home on the mountain’s breast,
Where the Indian rudely reigns
And the sea has gone to rest.”

	Why should those songs which were a 
part of their history, be suffered to fade 
away in the past? They expressed the
emotions, experiences and hopes of that 
time and cheered the Pilgrims, and should
be preserved.
	Are those pioneers remembered and re-
garded as heroes and heroines? Actuated
and moved by the spirit that impelled them, 
is it less grand than the story of the Puritan 
fathers and mothers; that is now a heritage
in every Puritan household? Is not that
spirit of pride already lighted to glow
around the names and memory of the
pioneers? O, wondrous work of a few
fleeting years, so few that not all of those
veterans are passed away. 
	Not many of them saw with prophetic 
eyes the miracle to be wrought by prayers,
faith and works; the miracle already 
wrought and which those eyes not all yet 
dimmed, behold.  O, ye Pioneers! What 
have ye brought to light? Where once
your wagons camped in the arid dust and 
brush. a city’s streets are paved; where
once your camp fire burned, electric lights
now glow, and your cabins have given place
to palatial edifices of industry and com-
merce. Your camp-fire schools are changed
to Academies and Colleges, your looms to 
factories.
	Into the sleeping Utah land came the
prince of light and broke the sleep of ages. 
Your lands of desolate, miry clay have 
turned to bricks, to gold; your eyes have
traced and your hands brought forth to use-
fulness the foundations of coal and iron 
beneath the “everlasting hills;” the granite
and marbles have changed their cumbrous 
shapes to adorn your habitations and the
resting places of your honored dead; the 
mountain streams have washed to view 
their grains of gold; and by the vapors of 
the inland sea and the caldrons of heat
below, the great Alchemist in the subter-
ranean laboratories of nature, has moulded
the veins of silver and copper, lead and 

[Column 3]
gold, wrapped in the rough covering of 
earth. In the desert wastes your artesian 
wells are bursting forth with purer brilliancy 
and far more benefit, than your most famed
political orators; and you have had, if not,
“the shadow of day” “the pillar of fire 
by night,” by the shore of that wonderful
Lake, that the great and the noble come to
view. Where once, barefooted boys (they are
Nature’s noblemen now,) herded their
straying cows and boiled eggs for their din-
ner in the springs that George A. said were
“only half a mile from-some-where” the
magnates of the land hold their feasts, the
feeble invalid and the wonder seeker come, 
in carriages or cars, to drink and bathe in
its healing waters, and bestow their
eulogiums upon its virtues, its delights,
and Utah; and they call it Beck's Hot
Springs. Why! every pioneer’s son knew
its merits long ago. Your “cattle are upon
a thousand hills,” your sheep and lambs
spread like fields of snow and your herds of
untamed horses sweep like clouds across
the plains, until Utah is not large enough;
your names and possessions reach into States
and Territories the wilds of Mexico and the
borders of Canada, while still others bear
the story of the Gospel’s plan to nearly 
every nation upon the earth. Once—the low-
ly and misunderstood Mormons, now, it is 
an honor to be born in Zion, now, to hail 
from Utah is a passport. Now, the voices
of your sons and daughters are heard in the
counsels of Committees of the outside
world.
	Your artists, sculptors, professors and 
authors are acknowledged, your vocalists
and musicians, your choirs and choral 
societies are famed among the professors of
our country. 
	The sons of pioneers who entered this
valley in covered wagons (oftimes torn and 
soiled) and in some cases drawn by a com-
posite team of oxen and cows, with worn
out and repaired harness such as was never
seen before and will never be seen again;
now ride in luxurious carriages behind
thoroughbred horses in glittering harness;
or speed along the old six months trail in 
rail-road carriages in which some of them
are share holders. And this soil of which 
it was predicted, that it would not raise
corn, now yields the fruits of the North and 
the Semi-Tropics, and sends her potatoes
east, her wheat to England, and her dried
fruits back to the States and Territories of
the Union. And yet, when you reached
here, destitute though you were, and the 
crickets destroyed your scanty crops; though
sickness visited you and clothing worn to 
tatters, you were as one said: “a thousand
miles from anywhere,” and you turned
your thoughts to God, your hands to 
labor and waited for the blessing. But the
world you had left followed you when they 
reached here travel worn over the roads you
had made in the trackless wilderness, you 
warmed and fed, and pointed out the way
still on, Still the tide of emigration fol-
lowed your lonely trail, until many nations
have yielded their representatives. Still
they come, but now to wonder, admire and
respect. And one by one, and in groups.


they seek the place where Brigham Young
is laid. Around his silent ashes the foot-
steps of the stranger falls; men who never
saw his face nor heard his voice, but un-
consciously by that visit render tribute to 
his power and majesty of mind among men. 
And they turn to the Temple, a mystery to 
the world, a benediction to us, crowning
triumph of your weary pilgrimage, sacred 
offering to His holy name. 
	Founded under the leader of that
wondrous pilgrimage, it is indeed fitting
that it should be completed under the
administration of Wilford Woodruff, one of
the last of that noble band whose names
will live in immortality.
	Brigham and Wilford! Their names will
arise, more than all others in the Temple’s
history. Each led their people through 
ordeals that tried men’s souls; but the 
clouds are passing away. You had your
black crickets, and the sea gulls came to 
your rescue; you have also had your
political crickets who have tried to devour 
our larger crops but they’ve found the
amount too large and are trying to unswal-
low it, and perhaps, some other Gulls may 
come to our relief in their case. To many 
of our Pioneers, but few more Christmas 
seasons will come, they will have passed to
where the Prince of that Day will greet His
worshippers. Honor, happiness, comfort
and rest be yours while yet you stay; and 
passing to the promised reward, may you
fall sweetly asleep to a glorious awaken-
ing.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON. 
Dec. 12, 1892.


WOMAN S EXPONENT.


ANGELINA.
A STORY
[By W. Crouch]
	I WAS born in one of the most delightful
of all the delightful places in dear old Eng-
land. My childhood was passed, mid
flowers and fruits and waving grain, green
fields, and groves and shady lanes, and the
ever varying and delicious music, of paren-
tal instruction, childrens prattle, the hum-
ming of bees and the singing of birds.
	Well do I remember rising with the lark
in the morning, in the delicious May
weather we then enjoyed. When from the
surrounding meadows, first one would
twitter, and then rise up and sing; and
then another and another, till more than a
dozen larks would be in the air at once,
pouring forth the delicious harmony of their
morning song! By the time the first part
was concluded, the woods and groves would
be alive with choristers. The thrush, the
blackbird, the starling, the linnet, the gold-
finch, the bullfinch, the chaffinch, the tom-
tit and all his followers, with the rest of
the feathered tribe would be pouring forth
their songs of praise, and grateful acknowl-
edgement for the bounties of heaven. And
the great Hallelujah chorus would be re-
peated over and over again with the ut-
most delight and gusto, compatible with
musical harmony.
	My parents were poor but industrious,
and they taught their children to be indus-
trious too. So that the early summer
morning often found us sowing, planting,
hoeing or weeding, in the midst of all this
delightful music and sunshine.
	I suppose there were cold and dreary
winters in those years, but I do not seem
to remember them. I remember how I
loved my father and mother, my two

[Column 2]
brothers, and my little darling, my only
sister. I remember how pleased I felt
when she was born; when I first learned
that I had a sister. How proud I was to be
her nurse. How I would hold her to my
bosom and breathe into her infant soul, as
it were, such loving words as rose so na-
turally then, to lips not yet defiled! And
often have I seen not only my mother but
father do the same. And how often in
after life has my soul seemed to feed upon
the memory of the past, and longed to re-
turn again to, or reproduce such happy
days.
	When we would run through the fields
to meet our father returning from work,
and he wouid often stop, and fondly em- 
brace us all. Then taking baby in his arms,
with words of love and kind encourage-
ment, would lead us home. There to re-
new those tender embraces in which our
loving mother always shared.
	Little did we think then, that the time
would ever come that we should be met
with a scornful frown, but so it came to
pass.
	For some cause that I never understood,
we removed from our peaceful home in the
country to London. I believe that an offer
to my father of higher wages, was the
cause. We had heard wonderful stories of
London, and I remember how we all en-
couraged each other to rejoice in the pros-
pect before us. And alas! I remember too,
how soon we were undeceived.
	The sweet refreshing breeze, the clear
and delicious sunshine, the delightful music
of the birds, and above all the bright green
fields were gone, and seemed to be gone
from us forever.
	Whenever I was sent on an errand, or
had occasion to go from place to place, at
every turn of the street I would look for
green fields but I looked in vain.
	Were I to tell you all the. discomforts of
our new home, it would be but the old
story, that breathes too much of disgust
for description here. Suffice it to say,
every one of us felt unhappy. I can re-
member, how tiresome we children were,
and our dear mother’s patience, and for-
bearance, under all her trials.
	But there was now a new trial looming
in the future, greater and worse than them
all. My poor but good, my kind and
loving father, now-seemed to lose his love
for us, and took to drinking as he said, to
enable him to sleep at nights. I remember
hearing my mother say, “what was good
for her husband, was good for her.” And
as they had walked in the way of virtue
and peace, so they went down the hill to-
gether. But it was not the way of peace
now; Alas no! “the way of transgressors
is hard.” And so it verily was, to them
and us. My brothers learned to roam about
the streets, in bad company, to fight and
swear; and became lazy and saucy to my
poor mother, and untruthful.
	But in the midst of all this degradation,
my little sister Linny, seemed to grow up
so pure and loving; so kind and affectionate,
and even happy. Often as I reflect upon
the past, do I seem to hear her musical
voice, as she would come bounding into the
room, to tell of some kind action done, of
some sweet babe that she had been nursing
perhaps half a day for a penny; and now
that the soul-destroying drink, had brought
us to abject poverty, little Linny’s pence
were often needed for bread.
	One evening, when my father and
mother had been drinking, and had a

[Column 3]
terrible quarrel, I had been tremblingly
watching, in the hope of being able to
prevent them doing each other harm. I had
missed Linny and knew not where she had
gone. When my father and mother were
quarreling, I had often persuaded her to go
to a neighbor’s house out of the way for I
knew such scenes were terribly painful to
her. After getting my parents to bed,
(girl as I was) and seeing them fast asleep,
sat down to wait for Linny; when I heard
her sweet voice gently calling me up the
stairs. We had no candle, inside the house
it was dark; but outside, it was clear and
star light. I crept softly up to the little
back room where we slept. There sat my
sister at the window, gazing on a star,
“Angelina” she said, “sit down beside me
darling, and look at this beautiful star, I
have been admiring it so long, and have
seen fields and flowers, and beautiful trees:
even surpassing the beauty of those of our
dear old home.” “Look,” said she “and
you’ll see the star open.”
	Well we sat down, hand in hand,long and
lovingly together, conversing about the
star, but to me the star opened not, neither
did I expect it would. I remember she
repeated some sweet and comforting texts
of scripture, and passages she had learned
at school, for in the midst of all our sin and
sorrow, we had attended regularly to a
Sunday school.
	The next day Linny was ill: and my
father and mother were sober. Poor Lin-
ny’s sickness increased upon her day after
day. One day she called us all, around her
bed, and told us she knew she was going
to die. “For surely” she said “that
beautiful star was open to me last night,and
saw the angels.” And I verily believe
she thought she did.
	My father and mother now became deep-
ly concerned about Linny, they broke off—
their drunken habits but Linny died point-
ing them to the cross, and expressing a
hope of meeting us all in heaven.
	About this time my father and mother
signed the temperance pledge, and faithfully
they kept their covenant.
	But new trials awaited us, my father’s
constitution was broken, and the miscon-
duct of one of his sons, nearly broke his
heart. In much affliction he toiled on,
but could only earn a scanty pittance. For
alas! who in London will employ a man
that has not strength to do a full day’s work.
	My brother John remained at home, but
Thomas was gone we knew not where.
John was a good lad, and much of our lit-
tle leisure was spent together, at the window
often talking of Linny and the star, until
indeed, we became almost superstitious.
	But our dear parents were more affection-
ate to each other now than they had been
for years and we were leading the lives of
humble penitents, conversing together often
on the love and mercy of God, and our
faith in the atonement.
	But the time of our great tronble came,
our father died; in the faith of the gospel
doubtless, so far as he understood it. And
my mother, my brother and my self went
into service; I obtained a place in the
country. Here I began life anew, with
new hopes, new joys, and new and severer
trials; in my new place I found I had much
to learn. And some people round, while
professing great friendship, were more ready
to teach evil than good.
	There was a man in my master’s employ-
ment lucky for me, (wise people said) he
was neither young nor handsome but he


persisted in paying his addresses to me, and
not supposing him to be guilty of flattery
or deception, I accepted his company some-
times in a walk. One night, when passing
a lonely spot, he made a proposal to me
that I knew was very wrong. And I felt
so indignant, and even surprised and
ashamed that I did not answer; whereupon
he proceeded to violence and a severe
struggle ensued. I resisted with all my
might, and pleaded with the man, begging
him in mercy to desist, but in vain. Then
as I felt my strength failing me, I prayed
to God; When in the vision of my mind
the star opened and a young man approach-
ed, coming to my help. Suddenly I ex-
claimed, “Look! look! who’s that? where-
upon the man, supposing some one was in-
deed coming, ran away in fear. I kneeled
down, and with a girlish heart gave thanks
to God; then walked home alone in safety.
	My mind now became filled with many
and serious thoughts. I saw now how it
was that so many modest and guileless young
women, were seduced and ruined, what a
narrow escape I had had, and how the
heavens had been opened as it were to my
help. And I resolved that I would sooner
die, than I would yield to any inhuman
monster, that sought to gratify his lust at
the expense of woman’s virtue. And that
too often they will do, under the strongest
pretension of the purest love. For this base
man had been very civil and obliging to
me; and had professed to love me with all
his heart, yet upon the slightest danger to
himself, he ran away and left me, and that
in a lonely place, on a dark night.
	I now became more than ever reconciled
to my lot as a servant, paid more attention
than ever to my duties, and had less desire
than ever to be gadding about.
	About this time my thoughts were often
stirred within me, concerning the way of
salvation. Sabbath after Sabbath, did I
attend Church. Joined in the formal prayers,
heard the minister preach, but my mind
was neither enlightened nor comforted. So
prayed in all humility and earnestness to
the Lord, the Almighty God, to guide me
into His knowledge.
	One night I had the following dream,
and of what should I dream but the star.
I dreamed that I was borne away in space,
how, and by whom, I could not tell; but
soared to my favorite star, and as I
approached the ineffable glory, the star
opened, and I entered its hallowed portals.
There I was met by the same young man
that I had seen in my vision before; and
he pointed out to me the beauties and
glories of the place and the exceedingly
pleasing appearance and happy condition of
the people. He told me that if I would
be true to the light of the star of truth,
and follow the divine guidance for which I
had been praying, that I should one day
come there again, be one of that heavenly
order and share their joys.
	Then he brought me down to earth, and
parting said, “If in any turning point of
danger or doubt in your eventful life to
come you can but behold, in the vision of
your mind, the opening star you may
advance.”
	One day, not long thereafter, I saw a
man sitting on a stile near the house; and
my attention was irresistibly drawn to him,
I knew not why. He appeared to me like
one who was tired and hungry, and I felt
a wish to relieve him. My master and
mistress were both kind hearted and good to
the poor. Presently the man approached

[Column 2]
the honse, and as I met him at the door, 
I said to him, “I wanted you to come, for I
fancied you were hungry, and I have food
that I can give you.”
	Thank you young woman, said the man,
but I must first do the will of Him that
sent me. I perceive, said he, that you are
one of the daughters of Israel; and to such
am I sent, even to. the lost sheep of the
house of Israel, to tell them the way of
salvation.
	While he was talking to me the vision of
my mind seemed lit up by the light of
eternity, and again the star opened, and I
regarded the poor wayfaring man as a
messenger from heaven. The more I
heard, the more I believed, and the more I
longed to obey, and inherit the blessing of
the glorious gospel.
	In short, I believed all he told me, cast
in my lot with the persecuted people of
God. Believing in Apostles and Prophets,
the gospel of salvation by Jesus Christ,
faith, repentance, and baptism for the re-
mission of sins, and the gift of the holy
ghost by the laying on of hands. And I
began more than ever to delight in honesty,
integrity, truth and virtue, and every thing
of good report; and I labored and prayed
continually, that I might keep the com-
mandments, and be saved in the kingdom
of God.
	I now had new motives for exertion, and
patient toil; for I had heard of a better
land, even the land of Zion. And every-
thing, even the star of my destiny seemed
directing me to it.
	So I continued in my place three years
after this, during which time I had more
than one offer of marriage, but upon neither
of these did the star open, and I refused.
	By the end of that time I had saved
money enough, and proceeded on my way
to the land of Zion, under the good star of
my destiny, and kind heaven’s approval.
	I have no time, nor inclination, to relate,
here all the taunts and persecution I had to
endure on account of my faith in, and
obedience to the gospel. Suffice it to say,
the star of my destiny was over me, and I
had full faith and confidence in Him who
rules the stars.
	Soon after I joined the Church I wrote a
long and loving letter to my mother, but
she supposing herself to be a good Chris-
tian,it seemed natural to suppose that I must
have been deluded, and she wrote to the
effect that she must renounce me as a
daughter, unless I renounced my faith.
	This letter from my mother whom I
loved so much, gave me great affliction.
For surely the spirit of the Lord did not
dictate such a course. I wrote again loving
as before, and if I felt one bitter thought I
did not express it, but she never wrote to
me after until she heard I was leaving the
country.
	I was standing on board ship ready for
departure, in the midst of a company of
Saints, we had just been singing one of the
songs of Zion, when I saw my dear mother
stepping on to the deck. The next moment
was locked in her embrace. My mother
tried hard to persuade me to return with
her; and as I felt the affectionate pressure
of her maternal embrace, and fondly looked
upon her aged and careworn countenance,
my bosom yearned over her, and my heart-
strings seemed to cling around her more
than ever. But all these strong ties of
nature, had to be sundered, for I could not
persuade my mother to accompany me;
though the money she brought for my

[Column 3]
ransom, as she called it, might have paid
her passage, over. But truly do I now
know what it is, to forsake my dearest
relative for the sake of the kingdom of
God.
	This parting with my mother was the
most painful part of my life. My brother
Thomas had left the country and had not
since been heard of. John had married,
and settled in a distant country. And here
was I, leaving my poor aged mother alone
and almost helpless in the world. And
how could I resist the conviction that I
ought to stay with her, as long as she lived,
aud comfort her. And yet, over and above
all this, there was the great command of
Jehovah, “Come out of her O my people,
that ye be not partakers of her sins, and
that ye receive not of her plagues.”
	Up to this time I had had no association
with any congregation of saints. And now
I soon found opportunity of making my-
self useful. But I was beginning to take
offence at the conduct of some, when I
heard a kind voice near me saying, "Are
you perfect sister?” And turning I saw—
but much improved in appearance—the
poor wayfaring man that three years before
I had seen sitting upon the stile, and whom
I had relieved with a morsel of bread, and
from whom I had received in return the
words of eternal life; and now he taught
me to understand myself, and my relation-
ship to those around me, that I must not
look for perfection here but, said he, “these
are the poor and despised, and in some cases
the most unlearned and down trodden of
poor fallen humanity; and these, said he,
let us be willing to hope are all trying to
become saints of God in very deed.”
	By the daily exercise of faith in Him,
who holds the winds in His fiat (as it were)
and the waves in the hollow of his hand, we
got over the sea in safety; and traversed
our great overland journey of nearly two
thousand miles of toil and trial—suffice it to
say we had trials by sea and by land; but
we had gained an experience that was bet-
ter to us than gold.
	When we had reached that part of the
way where we obtained the first view of our
mountain home, the joy of our hearts was
beyond compare. Again was the vision of
my mind lifted up as before, and I indulged
in the fancy, that the star opened and again
saw a young man coming toward me, bnt
this time that part of the sight was more
than a passing vision, it was a reality and
so soon to pass away, it was the poor way-
faring man that I had once relieved with a
morsel of bread.
	There we were, comparative strangers to
each other in a strange land among
strangers, and yet not among strangers but
brethren. And this we felt in our hearts
and souls to be indeed the case. But here
we stood at the altar of God, plighting our
vows to each other of eternal love and
fiidelity, without money, or property, but
with our strong hands and willing hearts,
to assist each other in forcing from the
elements of this desert land, the necessities
and comforts of life! And co-working to-
gether with all the saints, in the building
up of the kingdom of God.
	My husband was one of the traveling
Elders who had been called, in England, to
preach the gospel; so that like me, he had
not been to Zion before. I heard him give
some account of his labors, and a thrill of
holy joy ran through my soul, as I heard
the Prophet say “well done.”
	(continued on page 94.)


[Column 1]
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE 91)
ANGELINA.
	After a few days spent at head-quarters,
enjoying the hospitality of the saints, and
the delicious rest thus afforded us; after our
long and tedious journey, we started again
to a distant valley in company with some
of the older inhabitants, to form a new
settlement. As we left the comfortable
city, to march through the dreary wilder-
ness, I thought of what seemed to me a
still greater hardship and a still more dreary
journey, of our father Adam and our
mother Eve when, for so small an offence,
they were driven from Paradise.
	Weary and foot-sore we reached our
destination. It was a naked valley! Sur-
rounded by rocky mountains. Here we
sat down and wept (at least I did) then
prayed and sang praise to God.
	The leader of our party, a man made
venerable by wisdom and years, then rose
up—exhorted and instructed us how to
draw from the elements the necessities of
life. Then raised his hands and blest the
land, and the fountains of water, in the
name of Israel’s God.
	Here we essayed to live in tents and
wagons, huts or bowers, as best we could.
We were comparatively happy, while try-
ing to make each other so, and every one
of us labored with all our might to make a
field and plant it.
	For two full years we lived, in a tent, but

[Column 2]
by that time many comfortable houses had
sprung up, as it were, out of the ground;
and soon to our joy we found that the few
Redmen, of that solitary place, were glad
for us and the wilderness was beginning,
indeed, to blossom as the rose.
	We all lived near together for mutual
defence, and our Sabbaths were spent in
holy communion and worship. We
realized the blessing of heaven upon the
land, for it yielded in rich abundance.
	About this time I wrote the following
letter to my mother.

My Very Dear Mother:—
	I have written to you twice before, but
received no reply, my concern for you in-
creases, but still I cling to the hope that
this will find you alive and well.
	Through mercy I am well and happy,
more so than I have ever been before.
	It is now nearly seven years since I left
old England and came to this mountain
valley, then a bleak and barren wilderness,
but I came here with a company of saints
in obedience to the law of the Lord; and
He has greatly blest us for our obedience,
and has blest the land for our sake; so
that it now abounds with corn, fruit, and
vegetables of almost every kind. All
kinds of trees are growing up and bid fair
to become as large and beautiful as those
that surrounded the home of my childhood.
Children too are multiplying around us, I
have already added three to the number of
your grand-children, and often wish I had
you here to help me manage them.
	Dear mother, I have learned by experience
that it is good to try my best to be a saint
of God in very deed. Let us continue to
pray for each other that we may be delivered
from all error and false doctrine. That our
minds may be enlightened to know the
truth. To understand the will of the
Lord and do it.
	Dear mother, I can solemnly assure you
that I do know by the gift and power of the
Holy Ghost, that God has commenced His
marvelous work of the last days. To
build up, and establish His kingdom upon
the earth, for the salvation of all who
believe, and obey the gospel of his son; and
gather out from among the nations to the
place of His appointing. For surely
destruction will come upon the wicked.
	Dear mother, let me ask, are you not a
believer in Jesus? O mother! I know that
you believe. What does the Lord require
of you then? But first to obey the first
principles of the gospel, faith, repentance,
and baptism for the remission of our sins,
and the laying on of hands for the gift
of the Holy Ghost. Then shall it be given
you, to know for yourself, that your sins
are forgiven and that this is the kingdom
of God.
	With reference to the long journey to
this place, it is a great undertaking; but
the Lord, who has commanded, is our help-
er, and our experience in all our travels is
more of joy than sorrow. The whole
journey I managed, being young and
strong, to suffer but little. My greatest
pain was leaving you, it was to me a great
and abiding sorrow. But on board ship I
found plenty of work to do in assisting the
overtasked mothers, in the care of their
children. Wherever I could I lent a help-
ing hand and found comfort and peace in
trying to comfort others. Our land journey
was far more pleasant, we knew that we
were doing right, and there was love and
rejoicing generally in the Camp of Israel.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.								1


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE D. WELLS,	 -	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $I.oo one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3 00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to 
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	DECEMBER 15th, 1892.


[Column 1]
﻿A HISTORIC HOUSE.
HOUSES have histories as well as in-
dividuals, and some of them pass through
a variety of singular experiences also like
their masters and mistresses, which written
up after the manner of Dickens for instance
might be very interesting to read even in
this day rich with incidents worth nothing.
To tell the various scenes that have been
enacted in many old habitations would be
to go over the events of many lives, and
might not be entertaining to those connected
therewith.
Whether notable or not the house now
occupied by the writer, is certainly histori
cal in many ways. Old and gray and
weather-beaten, built in the very earliest
time of the settlement of this great City,
and by its founder Brigham Young. Oc-
cupied first by members of his family, and
considered one of the homes of this great
leader and pioneer, whom Edward Tul-
lidge has designated as an empire builder.
The homes of all truly great men are in
a sense historic and of national value, and
Brigham Young’s name grows more and
more illustrious the world over as the
years roll by. At an early period in the
history of the house Daniel H. Wells came
to dwell in it, and here during his residence
therein were transacted many things per-
taining to the growth and advancement of 
public interests, pertaining to the Church
and the Territory, civil, political and mili-
tary as well as things spiritrual.
In the prime of his life, it may well be
said, Daniel H. Wells took up his abode in
the house as it originally stood—an adobe
structure of four rooms, afterwards adding
two more, larger than the others, remark-
ably spacious for those days. Several of
the Wells’ children (some of them now
quite widely known) were born here, and
many came to ask counsel and to hold com-
munication with its genial master. Meet-
ings of men who were taking up the cares
and responsibilities of a new government
were held in this room—for the last seven
years known as the little office of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and deliberations

[Column 2]
and conclusions were arrived at, that had
weight with the community.
The old stone wall with its massive pil-
lars gives a sort of feudal dignity to the
place, and thousands of strangers, stop and
wonder, and some admire the tone and
style this superb, though homely, structure,
antique in its appearance, lends to the long
low dwelling it protects and shelters behind
its gates.
Leaving that past, the history of which
has been recorded in the History of Utah
by Bishop O. F. Whitney, we may with all
due propriety mention more recent matters 
pertaining to the old home known for forty
years as the Wells’ House.
There are in all communities leading wo-
men citizens as well as men, and in this
particular house perhaps as many of these
have gathered from time to time as in any
one house in Utah.
To some this may seem a little exagger-
ated but the facts will we are sure verify the
statement.
Eliza R. Snow, the President of the
Relief Society, the largest organization of
women, this side the Rocky Mountains
was a regular visitor here as long as she
lived and here in this very room most of
the business pertaining to the conducting
of the Society in all its several Stakes and
branches, not only in Utah but throughout
the world has been deliberated upon and
decided. Many thousands of letters per-
taining to this charitable organization have
been written here at this same desk, and
from here sent abroad to nearly all parts of
the civilized world.
Zina D. H. Young who succeeded the
former President, lias made this place her
headquarters in the same way, and still
continues to do so.
Meetings of several different organizations
have been held here regularly or at intervals,
where much has been planned relating to
the interests of women and their intellectual
and spiritual development. The preliminary
gatherings for the work of organizing
some quite important associations have been
held in this house, and credentials prepared
for those who have gone as delegates to
represent the respective associations at
headquarters in Washington and other
places East and West. All the preparatory
work for the Woman Suffrage Association
of Utah Territory, the selection of officers
and their appointments, the Constitution
and By-laws was done here, previous to
the public meeting held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall.
The Woman’s Co-operative Mercantile and
Manufacturing Inst’n. which represents con-
siderable capital and is managed entirely by
women was originated and held its earlier and
afterwards regular Board Meetings here for
some time.
The Utah Woman’s Press Club was or-
ganized and the Constitution formed here,
and holds its regular meetings in this same

[Column 3]
house. Without alluding to the improve-
ment made and the work done by this club
of writers, we can assuredly say it has been
a great pleasure to meet from time to time,
these bright intellectual women whose con-
stant effort is the advancement in the broad-
er paths and fields of the higher education
of the world of mankind including in its
largest sense womankind.
And now we come to the latest
organization effected here of which no
previous mention has been made in the
columns of our paper, The Reaper’s Club.
This is really a literary club of women, who
are past school or university life, but who
wish to keep pace with the progress being
made nowadays, in the great variety of
studies,such as history, ancient and modern,
current literature in all its forms and phases,
and whose interest in the intellectual and
moral development of the world is such as
stimulates them to make every effort pos-
sible for general enlightenment, moral,
spiritual and physical growth. The club
is limited to thirty members beside five
honorary members the topics so far have
been Queen Isabella, Columbus, Ferdinand,
The Reformation, Savonarola. Among the
things which make this an interesting house
old as it is and queer as it seems compared
with the modern cottages, is the great num-
ber of celebrated people, local travelers,
tourists who have made visits within its
time-honored walls, or calls long or short
at different periods since it was built.
In the palmy days of the early pioneers,
Squire Wells (as he was generally designat-
ed) did a great deal of entertaining; and
though those were the days of scarcity and
high prices, he was famous even then, for
his hospitality. Many dinners and evening
parties were given here to the brethren and
sisters, and upon occasions to men who
were occupied in official positions civil and
military.
Probably there are not one of the Apostles
of this or former times or those in authority
in this Church who have not been entertain-
ed at some one of these social gatherings in
this house, besides many hundreds of others;
not to speak of the many marriages
solemnized here, and other happy occasions;
and indeed of even the deaths of some
people of note, which are known to have
taken place in this old house.
Referring to celebrated people, who have
found welcome in this old house during our
sojourn therein, we may be excused perhaps
in mentioning foreigners, authors, editors
and people entitled to newspaper notoriety.
Among the many not literary have been
distinguished men in Church and state
throughout Christendom, also Barons, Dukes
and Military men, Duchesses, Countesses,
Dowager Countesses and many poets,
authors, lecturers, doctors and newspaper men
and women of more or less celebrity; besides
the people who have neither rank or title,
but simply want to see and hear.


[Column 1]
	People who have beeu attracted here 
because of this and that; some who have
had letters of introduction from those whom
we had met elsewhere or who had called
before, and some who felt drawn to the
place because of its quaint appearance and
surroundings, or from idle curiosity, or a
desire to know about the peculiar doctrines
of our faith, or were interested in questions
pertaining to woman’s advancement, en-
franchisement and higher education.
	Lastly the romance of this old place is
greatly enhanced by the many poems and
stories written here, and which perchance
were better from the very glamour, that
lingers round the place made sacred by so
many tender associations and recollections
of the past. In the great future which
awaits Utah, these memories may find place,
and the past as it reaches farther and farther
from view grow more rosy-hued and the
children of that generation look back with
a degree of pride and reverence on what was
written behind these “historic walls.” If
there was no sentiment in the world there
would be no poetry,and much of the history
of the heart as well as of the people would
be lost to mankind. We all like to know
not only what transpired in the past but the
feelings, affections and sentiments of those
who took part in the affairs of the times in
which they lived and flourished.
it seems a great pity that such houses
should be torn down, or to destroy the ro-
mance, that clings to these old primitive,
colonial homes of the early settlers who
distinguished themselves in the establish-
ment of the colonies and whose habitations 
are almost a part of their identity.
	But so it is and must necessarily be, the
old must give place to the new, and the
world move onward as the years roll by.
	In the days which we recall when this old
house was new and we were young, life
was quite different from that of the present
time. There were no regular mails, no
daily papers, few women’s papers here or
elsewhere, everything was very poor and
narrow and limited comparatively; women
did not only their own house-work, but
made soap and candles, spun and wove, did
their own knitting, dress-making and milli-
nery, but taught the children and helped in
all sorts of ways. We do not care to go 
back to those days, nor do we wish to see
people live in the old style, but we do hope
some of the old landmarks may be pre-
served to mark the days that are departed,
and to tell the tale of the early Pilgrims
who laid the foundation of this great and
flourishing city.
	Many are the pleasant associations con-
nected with this old house in the mind and
heart of the writer. Memories of loved
ones whose familiar forms and faces, seem
to haunt the rooms where they were wont to
linger and gladden with their sweet pres-
ence. That delightful past lives in its
richness still, and sweetens the lonely

[Column 2]
present with the fragrance of its per-
fume.
"Long, long be my heart with such memories 
     filled!
Like the vase in which roses have once been 
       distilled:
You may break, you may ruin the vase if you will,
But the scent of the roses will hang round it
      still."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WORLD’S FAIR AND SILK INDUSTRY.

	THE work for the World’s Fair or Columbian
Exposition is going on in the Territory in various
departments, and all sorts of legitimate ways and 
means are being adopted to raise money whereby
to forward the work of collections and exhibits.
There are many articles in process of construction
and it will not be very long until the women will
be able to report positively on some of the work.
Of one fact we feel assured that no other State or
Territory has made the showing in silk culture
and home manufacture of silk, that has been made
here and almost without capital; simply by the
active energy and enterprise of those who have
not only believed in home industries practically,
but have been willing to go to, and do with all
their might, by the exercise of brain and will-
power as well as their hands, whatever was pos-
sible to forward this laudable industry. A small
beginning certainly, and the results sometimes
discouraging, but when one goes over the whole
ground as we have been doing lately and estimates
the full amount of mulberry trees raised, of eggs,
worms and cocoons; of spinning, weaving, dyeing,
twisting, reeling, and manufacturing into articles,
such as sewing-silk, flosses, embroidery silks,
ribbons, laces, vails, handkerchiefs, dress-goods,
fringes, etc. It is quite a history of work,and has
been done with but very little machinery and
most of that of rude home construction.
The greater part of the work has been done by
women and children in all parts of the Territory,
and much credit is due Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
not only for encouraging this industry, but she
has traveled and worked more for it, we really
believe, than any other person. When Brigham
Young laid out his mulberry farm south of the
City (now Forestdale) and built there Mrs. Zina
Young -went down and took charge of the
cocooneries remaining (there one year until
there was a fairly good start of the enterprise.
She has been the pioneer worker in the silk all
the way through, and deserves the credit. She
was the President of the Deseret Silk Association
organized in 1875, the society having auxiliaries
in every county and nearly every town and
ward in Utah. Most of the people here know of
the great exertions made to raise cocoons and
make a success of this industry, but it languished
for lack of means, which ought to have been
forthcoming from those who had abundance to
have made it profitable and would thus have elderly
women, who could by this means have been self-
supporting when not able to do more laborious
work.
	The Legislature of Utah appropriated
fifteen hundred dollars to buy machinery but
through some mistake of the purchasers it did
not prove of the practical value expected. The
Relief Society has also given means, and
individuals as well have subscribed stock, but
because perhaps of gold and other mines yield-
ing wealth sooner, it has not been sustained in
the last few years as it was previously. Brigham
Young had the utmost faith in it and made the
very first start, sending into foreign countries for
the best seed to produce trees for the food of the
worms, as early in 1856. 
	Women and men have been emigrated from
foreign lands who were skilled in the employment
in various parts of the work thousands of dol-

[Column 2]
lars have been thus laid out, Father Graves of
Provo did more than any other man to further this
important home-industry. The WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT in its volumes contains the record of this
work with many interesting details. Now it is
hoped a new impetus will be given that will en-
rich the Territory and be more advantagous,
than many schemes that are receiving much at-
tention from capitalists and men and women who
are desirous of developing the country. Brigham
Young in his first sermon preached on the Temple
Block said, “The elements are full of silk” and
he was right, for it has been successfully proved,
as to the quality of the raw material. In the
centennial year, 1876 the display of our home
silk, in the Constitution Building attracted great
admiration from tourists and persons crossing the 
continent, who called to see what the people a
thousand miles from civilization had to show as
products of their industry and skill.
	In September 1880 when President Hayes with
wife and party visited the West, while here Mrs.
Hayes was presented from some ladies as a
souvenir of her visit with an elegant lace fichu,
which had been greatly admired by ladies who
had traveled in foreign lands where the most
elaborate and beautiful lace work is on exhibition
in public places.
	Of this fichu the cocoons were raised by Mrs.
Scheneter of this City (German) the silk prepared-
here and the lace weaving done by Mrs. Ursen-
bach formerly of the Jersey Isles. Our  limited
space prevents our saying more now but there is
much more might be written with all propriety
about what the women of this Territory have
done for silk culture.
	The silk portieres that the women of this Ter-
ritory are having made for the Woman’s Building
will be an elegant and appropriate gift. Made of
silk raised and prepared in skeins eleven or twelve
years ago by women for their own personal use,and'
designed and embroidered by our own artists,
these portieres will be effective in representing
our efforts in this direction.


A HAPPY EVENT.

"HAIL!  wedded love
Perpetual fountain of domestic sweets!"
	Married in Wallace, Idaho, on Monday,
December 12, 1892 Miss Daisie D. Woods and
Harry R. Allen, the ceremony was performed in
the Episcopal Church, which was beautifully
decorated for the auspicious event, and the newly
wedded bride and bridegroom, left soon after on
a wedding tour for San Francisco and other points
of interest on the Pacific Coast via Portland.
	The bride is our eldest grand-daughter and the
daughter of the late Bishop Newel K. Whitney's
youngest child, now the wife of Major W. W.
Woods the nephew of Gen. D. H. Wells.
	The bride is an accomplished young lady in
many ways and is well-remembered as a very fine
and sweet-toned singer.  She was until recently a
resident of Salt Lake City where she was born
and reared, and is highly esteemed by many dear
friends and relatives, who join with us in wishing
her the utmost happiness and prosperity in her
new relations in life.
	The bridegroom is an upright, honorable young
man highly respected among his friends and pos-
sesses good business capacity.  He is the son of an
Episcopal Clergyman of Chicago, and like the
bride a descendant of the Pilgrims.
	Mr. and Mrs. Allen will commence housekeep-
ing when they return from their trip to the Coast
and for their future happiness every good wish
is fervently expressed by their many friends.  It
is unnecessary to add they are great favorites in
the best society of Wallace, and as they are both
musically inclined will be sure to entertain well
in their own little Swiss Cottage among the pines


and ferns. May their future life be as sweet as the
songs they sing for others.
“The kindest and the happiest pair,
Will find occasion to forbear;
And something every day they live,
To pity, and perhaps forgive."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CHRISTMAS TIME.

	Christmas time again and in some hearts the
full tide of joy is running over, others there are
whose homes are sad and whose souls cannot al-
waysanswerto themerrie.merrie Christmas greet-
ing s of the great wide world so much misery exists
for which no panacea is provided and none seems
practicable, and to the tender and sensitive soul
these sorrows that cannot be healed, the tears
that cannot be wiped away, are sources of unhap-
piness. Yet one must not frown on the world or
grow disgusted because all are not made happy
but each one try to do his share in relieving the
burden of want and care for some unhappy one,
thus sweetening one’s own Christmas day and of-
fering.
	It is good that this time of refreshing conies,
good for the children who need these pastimes,
good for grown people who need this change from
daily toil and to renew old time associations, or
family relations.
	Were there not some day set apart for relax-
ation and social reunions,life Would become,stupid
and monotonous, and sentiment in families die
out altogether as it is very nearly crushed now
with money making speculations. Business be-
fore pleasure has been so strongly applied that it
has come to be business before the expression of
affection even in the most tender relations of life.
And so thrice welcome Christmas! A respite for
the weary, a time to feel for the needy, to gather
one’s own family round, the table of cheer and
the hearthstone later, where stories, songs and
jests, fill up the time and old memories are awak-
ened and family incidents related that bind the
hearts of children to the homestead, and make
firmer the union of kindred and friends.
	For the children’s sake particularly we rejoice
in Christmas and for the tenderness it gives to
human hearts and for “auld acquaintance sake,”
and the precious tokens of remembrance that are
given and received on this blessed day, when for
the sake of Him whose birth we commemorate we
remember the poor and needy and His words
“Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of these
little ones, ye have done it unto me.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE beautiful Pansy Calendar of Grant
Bro’s. is a handsome souvenir of that en-
terprising firm, and will not only be a very
useful article of household value and an
ornament too, but is undoubtedly a good
advertising investment. It is certainly a
very lovely thing and not likely to get out
of sight on account of its size or lack of
beauty. We tender our thanks for the
holiday remembrance, and wish the firm
success in business ventures for the coming
year.
	THE stores and shop windows are bright
and gay with holiday goods of all descrip-
tions. Never before were there so many
beautiful things displayed as one sees
nowadays. The book stores however are
the most interesting to the writer, Duncan
Mc’ Allister is making a fine display, keeps
the newest books, and magazines, by the
most popular authors and editors, and has
many handsome and unique souvenirs and
gift-books of the newest patterns and in
great variety. Hargetts Bro’s have also a
fine colleotion in the same line' and style of


goods, and last but not least by any means
C. R. Savage’s Bazaar and Art Gallery is
packed full of everything nice and new in
that line and the genial proprietor, who has
cartered to the public taste for a quarter of a
century deserves the patronage of his old
friends and new ones too. His selections
in the way of books are all that could be
desired and his toys are almost more, for the
variety and profusion bewilder the purchaser
completely. Altogether Salt Lake cannot
complain of its book-sellers, for they keep
the market well supplied with fine stationery
and current literature.
	THE Woman’s Cooperative Store has
Christmas goods of a variety of kinds as
well as other goods for ladies and children
furnishes dress materials and trimmings and
the Dress-making parlors of the establish-
ment are ir. running order, employing
competent help and guarantee satisfaction
in the work. In Millinery also the store is
not behind other shops, and it is a good
place to get hats and bonnets, besides wor
men should patronize institutions managed
and conducted by women who have stepped
forward’ in the matter of business. Go to
the Woman’s Store and see what there is to
buy there before purchasing elsewhere.
	THE Juvenile Instructor is a good place
to do business in the way of Christmas
goods, they sell cheap, and supply country
demands: they keep a great variety of
stationery of the finest qualities, they have
a fine stock of the best books, all the Church
works, and are very accommodating. They
also have a good supply of toys, dolls,
games and many such like articles for
children and young folks, and there is
scarcely anything in this style of goods or in
this line that one cannot find at this fine
new building just East of the Templeton
Hotel. The Juvenile Instructor handsome-
ly bound would be an acceptable Christmas
Gift to almost any one, and is safe to recom-
mend in the way of reading matter.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Dear mother your daughter is still alive,
won’t you come over and see her before we
die. Even while I am writing, the dear
children are prattling about what they will
do and say when grandmother comes, and
they join with their father in best love to
you.
	May the Lord Almighty bless you dear
mother, and make you a blessing to me
and mine; is the earnest prayer of your
ever affectionate and dutiful daughter,
						Angelina.
	Little more than seven years had passed
away when my husband was sent on a
short mission to England, and when he
returned—O happy day!—he brought my
mother with him.
	My mother had been converted to the
faith, so she said, while praying for me
the spirit had enlightened her mind to
discern the truth. And here I am, again
realizing the joys of my childhood, as I
look with pride upon my mother with my
babe in her arms, for 1 have now four
children.

	Since I laid down my pen, mother and
years have passed away. The kingdom of
God is progressing, and the valleys of the
mountains are being filled with an industri-
ous, thriving and God-fearing people. The
wilderness and solitary place is glad for
them and is made to blossom as the rose
and now the bright grain is waving, the
gardens are full of wealth and beauty. In
the orchards apples, pears, peaches and
plums are hanging in rich abundance.
Avenues of trees are growing along our
streets, and our children are growing up
around us in the fear of the Lord, and in
the faith and wisdom of the kingdom.
	My mother, after being for years a bless-
ing to me and my children, has laid down
her life in peace, in a good old age, and the
star of my happy destiny shines upon her
grave.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
COMMUNINGS.
I have fairy-like dreams of the past,
And delicate visions of thee,
That come as the evening stars shine forth,
Far over the land and sea.
When the bright silvery moon looks down
With a celestial glow,
My spirit flies on wings of a dove,
And I roam in the long ago.
While joy notes blend in my happy heart,
With its life's deep and solemn rhyme,
And over the future's shining gate,
There is written a scroll divine.
There's a beautiful niche in my heart,
Ever sacred for such as thee;—
Sinless and pure from the world apart,
As the stars that light up the sea.
	L. M. H.


REMEMBERED.

Oh! the first sweet message from home,
	How it thrills my heart with delight,
As a beam from Heavenward flown,
	To illume my soul with its light.
Yes it breathes the sweetest of thought
	That a language ever could tell,
This little white paper has brought
	The news that my loved ones are well.

Another sweet consciousness too
	Is expressed, in silent sweet tone;
That I am remembered by you,
	Away in our dear mountain home.


And when thou in reverent mood
	Approaching the Father above;
Seek blessings for absent or good,
	Then I am remembered in love.

Like the air distilling its dew,
	Like stars to the darkness of night,
And flowers sweet fragrance and hue,
	Comes this beam of Heavenly light.
							S. R. E.


U. W. P. CLUB.
	THE U. W. P. Club convened in the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT "parlor" Nov. 30, 1892,
Mrs. E. B. Wells in the chair. Prayer was
offered by Mrs. L. G. Richards, minutes of
previous meeting read and approved. Roll
call responded to by original sentiments, or
gems of thought such as the following from
Mrs. L. G. Richards.
"Since character is the only structure thou cans't
	build,
That will not fall or fail thee,
	Oh! ambitious youth;
Build deep, build strong, build high, but only
	gild,
	And decorate with fair, untarnished truth."
	The secretary then read the yearly report
of the club, which was accepted by the
members.
	Miss N. V. Davis, in a mos pleasing and
realistic manner, continued her description
of "A Trip to Alaska" to the great enjoy-
ment of all present.
	The club was next favored with a poem
entitled, "Thanksgiving," written and read
by Mrs. R. M. Fox.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells called attention to the
fact that the U. W. P. C. had been organ-
ized on Halloween, and hoped that another
year we might celebrate it in an original
way; which suggestion was put as a motion
and voted upon; a committee to be appoint-
ed the previous meeting for the arrange-
ment of the same. Mrs. E. B. Wells and
Miss Davis then read selections from
"Burns" illustrative of the character of the
day as observed in Scotland.
	An original poem was then read by Mrs.
Phebe C. Young.
	An able, interesting, and instructive
article, on the "World's Fair," written
and read by Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze.
	The suggestion of a programme com-
mittee by Mrs. E. B. Wells was favorably
received, and followed by the appointment
of Mrs. Lula Greene, Richards, Mrs.
Mary Freeze and Mrs. Georgina Young as
that committe to act during the winter.
An amendment to article iv of the "By
Laws," of the club, was offered by Mrs.
Phebe C. Young, in the form of a motion
viz, that we have four Vice Presidents at
large, instead of one as heretofore the
motion was carried, and Mrs. Susa Y. Gates
and Mrs. Julia A. Mac Donald, were ap-
pointed for those positions.
	The Motto and Badge were again discus-
sed, but no satisfactory conclusion arrived
at regarding them. Refreshments were
partaken of, while discussing critics and
criticism in the club. Benediction R. M.
Fox.
	Programme for Dec. 30th. Roll call
exercise Holiday sentiments original lines.
Original poem. Miss N. V. Davis. Mrs.
C. C. R. Wells, article on. the close of the
year, 1892 Mrs. Dickinson, descriptive
poem. G. Woodmansee, music. Discust
sion and decision on the Badge and Moto-
by the club. 
	GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Rec. Sec.


A PLEASANT EVENING.
	A few friends met by invitation at the residence
of Mrs. Belinda P. Musser, on Tuesday evening
December 6, and passed the time in delightful
conversation. Among the guests were Presidents
Angus M. Cannon and C. W Penrose, also Mr.
Charles Ellis, Laron Pratt and others. Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young, Dr. E. S. Barney, Dr. R. B. Pratt,
Miss Annie M. Cannon, Mrs. Laron Pratt, Miss
Maude Pratt, the last named young lady sang a
few favorite songs in charming voice and style.
Miss Pratt is not only a fine singer but willing to
gratify and entertain her friends who love to hear
vocal music.
	Mrs. Musser’s supper was a complete success
and was handsomely served. There seemed to
be nothing lacking in the way of variety, and
every dish well-cooked and seasoned to the most
fastidious taste, the guests enjoyed it and did
ample justice to the abundant feast of good things.
These social reunions help to brighten the long,
cold winter evenings, and the renewal of old
acquaintances is in itself a pleasure.—ED.


ONE OF A STRING OF PEARLS.
	WITH the waning days of December we com-
mence to turn new leaves and register new vows.
How just and brave and true we are going to be
after January 1st! That fellow whom we have
done our best to injure we are going to forgive.
That special peccadillo we have cherished we are
going to abandon. That debt we have shirked
we are going to pay. And so we enter upon the
untried year as children start to school on Mon-
day morning, with clean bibs and faces. Alas!
how many of us come tagging home at the end ol
the year, like these same children at the close of
the day, tatters, soiled garments and tears. But
however much we fail, and however hopelessly
we fall short of the standard set before us, never
let us give over striving, my dear. The time
spent in forming all these good resolutions is not
wasted time, any more than that time is misspent
which a steamer spends in coaling up. The
wheels rest while the furnace fires take on a rud-
dier light the contention down in the furnace
room among the rods and pistons and valves is
hushed for awhile, while the great ship takes on
new fuel. Just so the soul grows richer by that
divine impulse which holds it to the dock of a
good intention. Even he who stumbles most,
yet keeps walking between falls, is better than he
who sits on a fence and whittles his idle life away
in useless shavings, like a truant school-boy with
a pine stick and a new jack-knife. Is it not better
that those children of ours, those precious little
feather-heads who give us so much trouble now
and then, should promise and faithfully try to be
good, than that they should never make an effort
toward right-doing? And to the Father who
watches us so patiently out of heaven as we
stumble and riot along our way, is it not far bet-
ter in His eyes that we aspire, even though we
seldom attain? The eagle that attempts to soar,
even though his wings are clipped, has more of
the eagle nature in him than one that is content
with his cage and with his keeper.		SELECTED


COLUMBUS.
	GENOA has become immortalized as the
birth-place of Columbus. The years 1433-
1435 are given by different authors as the
time of his birth. It seems fitting
that so sublime a mariner should be brought
forth and reared on the shores of the sea.
Columbus lived in an auspicious time. The
15th century, like the 19th, the 5th and the
10th, has been noted a period of great
transition. Some of the greatest artists
and sculptors flourished. The printing
press, the mariners compass, the use of
gunpowder, the astrolobe were then known.
So also a reformation in Christianity was
necessary, and the teachings of the Martyr
Savonarola, and the doctrines of Luther
were brought forth. So too Columbus ap-
peared at the appointed hour when our
earth and intellect demanded him, he
received his instruction at the University of
Pavia, where he devoted his time to the
study of navigation, the natural sciences
and nautical astronomy.
	His thoughts were set on religion and
business alike. Like the Mediterranean
mariners of the present day he engaged in


[column 1]
commerce. He never began a letter with-
out writing a line of prayer in Latin in-
voking the aid of Christ. He read the
Bible from beginning to end, believed in
its prophecies respecting the discovery of
America and could repent the Catholic
prayers like any priest; he was an ac-
complished navigator, and repeatedly made
practical voyages. In 1477 he says he
sailed 100 leagues north of the Island of
Thule, or Iceland, but does not seem to
be aware of the traditions of the Scandi-
navians respecting the discovery of
America by the Norsemen 500 years
previous. He sailed south as far as the
coast of Guinea, the Island possessions
of Spain and Portugal, as the Azores,
Madeira, Canary and also the Island of the
Meditteranean. The stories and legends
of the great wealth of India were then
agitating the minds of the people of
Southern Europe. Commerce with India
was then carried on by way of land, the
route around the Cape of Good Hope was
not then known.
	Columbus was desirous of shortening the
route to Asia by sailing westward and thus
facilitating trade. He was convinced of
the sphericity of the earth; but believed
in the dimensions assigned to it by Ptolemy
which were much less than the actual size,
and that the solid parts of the earth ex-
ceeded the liquid. He also over estimated
the size of the Asiatic Continent. His
theory was that if he sailed west beyond
the possessions of Portugal and Spain, he
would soon reach the eastern coast of Asia.
Had he known of the immensity of the
actual distance westward to Asia, it is
doubtful that he would have discovered
America. In 1470 we find Columbus in
Lisbon. His presence here is like the
presence of artists in Rome, Lisbon was
one of the greatest maratime cities of the
age, engaged in commerce with all the
known nations of the earth.
	Here he married Felipa Perestrello the
daughter of a discoverer. The Island of
Porto Santo was conferred on the family of
Perestrello for some achievement, by Don
Henry of Portugal. Here Columbus re-
paired after his marriage and learned many
things advantageous in his future discover-
ies. Columbus had several conferences
with the king of Portugal who listened to
him with favor, but his demands were so
great that Don John did not comply. He
however decided to appropriate the designs
and ideas of Columbus and make the
discovery for himself so under pretense of
provisioning the Cape Verde Islands, he
sent out an expedition to follow the course
mapped out by Columbus. This proved a
failure and when Columbus learned of the
treachery of Don John his indignation was
so great he decided to quit Portugal im-
mediately. His wife having died, he took
his only child Diego, intending to lay his
claims before the Spanish sovereigns. He
also sent Bartholomew, his brother 1485 to
obtain assistance from the English
monarchs, Bartholomew was taken by
the Corsairs, chained to the oar as a gal-
ley, but after three years escaped gained an
audience with King Henry of England, who
was pleased with his plans, but from whom
he received no assistance. Columbus did 
not obtain an audience with Ferdinand and
Isabella until 1487, but he now had some
powerful allies who espoused his cause, among
which were the Dukes Medin Celi and
Medin Sidonia the great Cardinal Mendoza
whose power was such that he was styled
the third King of Spain. Columbus seems

[column 2]
to have arrived at the Spanish Court at an
inauspicious time. Ferdinand and Isabella
were then engaged in the expulsion of the
Moors and the conquest of Granada, and
could think of no rival undertaking, he
however received personal aid as the
treasurer's accounts show that sums of
money were paid him in May 1847, Aug.
1847, Oct. 1847, June 1846, to defray his 
expenses.
	In despair he went to Cordova the home
of Beatrice and his son Ferdinand. Thence
to the convent of La Rabida where the
good monks entertained him and were
astonished and charmed with his scientific
and religious ideas. They interceded with
the Queen in his behalf. She summoned
him to Santa Fe where he was promised a 
hearing after the conquest of Granada, he
gladly remained and engaged valiantly in
the fight. Jan 2nd 1492, Boabdil with his
brilliant following surrendered to Don
Ferdinand. Columbus now presented his
claims, he demanded the supreme office of
admiral, viceroy over the lands he should
discover, of the revenues resulting there-
from, and as the means of successful dis-
covery, he asked for three caravels and a
good allowance of money.
	The Queen complained of these
exorbitant demands and he was abruptly
dismissed. He again thought of repairing
to France, when a wealthy Jew Santangelo
and the Marchoiness Moya interposed in
his favor. In April 1492 the argument
known as the Capitulations of Santa Fe
was signed granting Columbus all he asked.
	The expedition consisted of the Santa
Maria with a crew of 50 men commanded
by the Admiral, the Pinta with 30 men
commanded by Martin Pinzon and the Nina
with 24 men commanded by Vincente Pinzon
	On Friday which was a day of good
omen Aug. 3, 1492, Columbus set sail from
Palos and stood out for the Canary Isles.
After an eventful voyage of 10 weeks, land 
was seen by a sailor, of the Nina, Rodrigo
De Friano Oct. 12, Friday 1492. This was
called by the natives Guanahani and by
Columbus San Salvador. Columbus besides
discovering many small Islands, discovered
Cuba and Hayti. The products of Hayti
were so much like those of Spain, that he
named it Espanolia or little Spain. On the
coast of Hayti the Santa Maria was so
badly wrecked, it had to be abandoned and
from it was built Ft. Nativity. The ad-
miral being desirous of returning to Spain
to report the good news, left Arana a kins-
men of Beatrice in command as governor of
the improvised fort.
	Martin Pinzon the commander of the
Pinta in his desire to find gold had deserted
the expedition, so the admiral had to re-
turn in the Nina, Jan, 4th 1493, he started.
On the homeward voyage a terriffic storm-
threatened destruction, and Columbus fear-
ing that all would be lost, wrote a des-
cription of the new found-land sealed it in
a keg and threw it overboard, trusting that
by the grace of God his precious secret
might fall into good hands. He reached
Palos, Friday March 5th, 1493. Columbus
seated before their majesties, told of the
new found land, exhibited the mysterious
plants, the strange beasts and birds, the
gold and the nine Indians who were to be-
come Christians. Columbus now had
reached the zenith of his glory. All his
honors were conferred on him, and pro-
positions were made for a second voyage.
This time 1500 persons went to colonize, to
Christianize the inhabitants and make more
discoveries. The Island Domnicia was

[column 3]
reached Nov. 3, 1493 after a most success-
ful voyage. This time he discovered Porto
Rico and Jamaica. Fort Nativity was
burned and the inhabitants deserted.
	He remained until 1496 discovering more
Islands and gold in considerable quantities.
He also established the West Indian Slave
Trade. In his great desire to obtain gold
he became avaricious, rumors of his misrule
reached Isabella who summoned him to
Spain. He reached Cadiz June 15, 1496,
in a state of great dejection; he was how-
ever again received into favor and asked for
mere supplies and ships which were granted
him. May 1498 he started on his third 
voyage. This time he discoverd the conti-
nent of South America which he supposed
was another collection of Islands until he saw
the immense quantity of water, the Orono-
co carried to the Ocean he knew that it was
a continent for which he had long sought. 
He then returned to the West Indies, sent
five ship loads of Indians to Spain as slaves
which so incensed Queen Isabella that she
ordered their release. More rumors of the 
mismanagement of Columbus reached Spain.
Their majesties accordingly commissioned
Boabdilla to go to Hayti and inquire into 
the trouble. On reaching Espanalioa he put
Columbus and his two brothers in irons.
	But he was once more forgiven and re-
ceived into favor, in May 1502 with four
caravels and 150 men he started on his 4th
and last voyage, from which he returned in
1504 and as he was too ill to go to court,
his son Diego represented him. Columbus 
died May 1506. His will states that the
honor or admirality shall fall on Diego and
his heirs male, failing these Fernando and
his heir, failing these Bartholomew and his
heirs male. The male issue of the admiral
became extinct in the third generation and
the estates and titles possessed by marriage
to a scione of the house of Broganza,
buried at Valladolid thence to Seville thence
to Hayti thence to Havanna.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
	until 4 p. m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lat s
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmedt
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
	No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
			Three doors west of Theatre.

MRS: M.E. VAN. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	AVD JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAK  CIY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
