Vol. 21.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1892.		No. 5.


CONTENTS.
	Farewell—L. M. H.  In Rural England—A
Story. Women’s News—Alma Priscilla Alden.
Appreciative—N. P. L.  The First Primary—
Minerva E. Knowlton.  R. S. Reports.  W. S. A.
Report.  A Pioneer Address—Mrs. Electa Bullock.
Modern Advertising—Thomas Warwick.  Pri-
mary Stake Secretaries.
	EDITORIAL:—The Industrial Problem.  Mrs.
Parker and Miss Hefron.  Edmund Russell.
Chautauqua Assembly.  Editorial Notes. Ladies’
Semi Monthly Meetings. Stockholders’ Meeting
—Gladys Woodmansee, Sec.  Items From the
North—Mrs. M. S. Anderson. Nature—M. E. K.
	POETRY:—Arouse—Genevieve Lucile Browne.
Will You Come When I Am Dying—Lucy.
Mother’s Birthday—Alofa.


[Column 1]
AROUSE.

MANKIND, to whom the gracious God has given
	The fairest gifts contained in Heaven and earth,
His vast sublime benignity has striven
	To make thee well contented from thy birth
	With his full bounties, and to prove thee worth
These blessings, freely placed thee on thine
	honor,
	Now hast thou surely brought about a dearth
Of virtue in the scales of the great Donor.
For slowly hast thou sunk in sin and error;
	The second step how easily the first
One follows, ’till thou look’st about in terror,
	To find thyself within a region cursed,
	The victim of a tortuous evil thirst;
Until, sore rent with an insane-desiring,
	The soul, its own perdition’s bonds to burst,
With all its strength the being fall’n is firing.
But presently the sweet soul’s voice grows
	fainter,
	And dies away unto eternal space,
And then thou givest o’er to thine attainter,
	The sensual, a[-]l thy pure and radiant grace;
	For guiling Sin, half veiling what is base,
The claims of life and love is undermining,
	That thou ere long may’st look upon his face,
A godless beauty in his shame defining.
And then the soul is stifled and is deadened,
	Submerged in pleasures gross and sorrow’s
	stream,
And when a sigh steals o’er the senses leadened,
	Like soft and sad reproaches in a dream,
	The wilful heart turns from the heavenly theme,
Responding, “What has God in goodness given
	To me? I’ve naught to lose nor yet redeem—
My soul has ever been with sorrow driven.

“My life has been an unfulfilled desiring,
	A restless search for what will satisfy;
Vain pleasure, naught but transient hope inspir-
	ing,
	Seems but a cruel phantom passing by,
	And God gives not to me for what I sigh;
So will I drift, and if I chance to please me
	With Sense’s charmers, that around me lie,
Whate’er they be, oh,therewith may I ease me.”
And askest thou what has our Maker given
	To thee—ah, know he gives to all mankind
The fairest gifts contained in earth and Heaven,
	That for us all his goodness has designed.
	He made the earth that thou a home shouldst
	find,
Adorned with rarest plants and fruits and flowers,
	The towering, misty mountains, richly lined
With hordes of treasures that may all be ours.

[Column 2]
Thou hast dominion over all that liveth
	And moveth on the earth and in the sea;
The Seasons, and the rain and snow He giveth
	To moist’ and fertilize the earth for thee,—
	The Sun’s great golden glory graciously
Is poured from out the Heavens in abundance,
	At night, the Moon’s soft silver—faithfully
All nature serves thee with her rich redundance.
And thou hast life and strength to onward bear
	thee
	And bend all that thou needest to thy will,
Thy senses’ sweet endowments, which have made
	thee,
	When rightly used, a power thy wants to fill.
	Thou hast an intellect, sublimer still,
Than any gift that governs life or motion,
	Which can thy deeds with depth and greatness
	thrill,
And steer thee wisely through life’s rolling ocean.
Thou hast a soul, that fills thee with a passion,
	Too pure and nobly wrought to be earth born,
That wakens to thy life in fervent fashion,
	The first rare radiance of a fairer morn
	Than e’er the breast terrestial may adorn,—
A soul that thrills thee with the fires of heaven,
	Responsive to the Infinite, they warn
Thee to retrieve thy being, folly-riven.
Then sigh not that thy life hath naught but sor-
	row
	To break the prairie of a desert waste,
That thou from degradation’s depths must bor-
	row
	That which to render it unto thy taste,—
	But live in yielding to that prowess chaste,
With which the intellect and soul hath crowned
	thee,
	Nor let false pleasure, painted and debased,
Her petty lies and larcenies e’er wound thee.
Oh, Mankind, rise, and breathe the air’s diffusion.
	Exhaled by virtue and simplicity;—
As Nature follows crime with retribution,
	So will she to the noble gracious be.
	Then Reason’s light doth teach thee well to
	see,
An earnest life will yield the deepest pleasures,
	The highest uses of thine entity
Will win thee trust and love, man’s greatest
	treasures.
	GENEVIEVE LUCILE BROWNE.


[column 1]
FAREWELL.

	“A WORD that must be and hath been.”
If in the vocabulary of the English
language a word can be found which has
wrung tears from mortal eyes and called
forth keen emotion from the heart—which
has caused that tender chord to vibrate,
which binds together the sons and daughters
of Adam’s race, it is the word “Farewell.”
This word when spoken by a friend to
whom we are bound by the strongest ties of
friendship and affection, informing us that
we shall not meet again this side of the re-
surrection morn, awakens in our bosoms
feelings only known by those who have ex-
perienced them.  Should we stand, beside
the deep waters of the ocean, where day by
day thousands are called to recognize some
fond friend rescued from the yawning deep,

[column 2]
while others are called to witness some relic
snatched from the bosom of the rolling bil-
lows, informing the anxious beholder that a
cherished object sleeps beneath them, we
should perhaps gain some idea of the feel-
ing wrought by the word, Farewell. Here
stand the parent, the child, the husband
and wife, brother and sister, friend and
companion—about to experience the sorrow
of separation.  The proud vessel is ready to
take from the parental embrace, the polar
star towards which true affection has ever
been directed.  Sympathy and love swell
the bosom with anguish; tears, sad tears,
 are falling from the eye—but Farewell,
Farewell is spoken, and the scene of parting
is known and felt in all its intensity.  Hear
the thrilling words, “God bless you—Fare-
well, Farewell.” How often does the
breeze that comes from England’s shores
and America’s coasts, inform us of the
broken affection which the one yet simple
word has caused, and the many hearts it has
crushed!
	Go to the bedside of the fond mother
whom death, the visitor of mortality,is soon
to take from earth; bitter tears are flowing,
telling plainly the anguish of their hearts.
But the summons has come and the dear
one must go.  Oh! how heart-rending—
how touching her last words.  Husband,
children, dear ones all—Farewell! What
heart so hard, so devoid of sympathy as not
to be touched by a scene like this, and how
often have we witnessed them?  How often
has the word, Farewell,fellen upon our ears
more solemn than the funeral knell!
	Today we meet our friends, embrace them
in the arms of brotherly love—rehearse the
events of by-gone days, when the rays of
love encircled the brow, and the heart found
a residence and a home.  We recall fresh to
the memory our days of childhood around
which linger a halo of joy and innocence
never to be forgotten; but tomorrow we bid
them Farewell.  Not only do our friends bid
usadieu, but all nature animate and inanimate
is constantly bidding us Farewell; change
and decay are busy.  Time is carrying us
forward to our eternal home—yes,—“Home,
sweet home.”

	“No cloud those regions know,
	Forever bright and fair;
	For sin the source of mortal woe,
	Can never enter there.”

	How joyful the thought that such a home
is ours! Forever shall we surround the
throne of celestial glory, to join in the song
of redeeming love with the ransomed Uni-
verse of the Almighty God; never, never
more to speak the sorrowful, solemn word,
Farewell.
						L. M. H.


In old age one sees farther and clearer
than younger people do.  It is like living
on a hilltop, from whence the ups and
downs of life appear in their just propor-
tions, and every way one looks one beholds,
as it were, “the crooked made straight, and
the rough places plain.”—Miss Mulock.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XX.
	When the door closed after Rob Har-
rison Esquire the "literary light" and his
friend Everhard, Anna, drawing a long
breath as a sigh of relief, said to her cousin,
"here is another obstacle in my pathway,
just when the coast seemed clear, and I felt
myself independent, this relative my
mother's cousin comes forward as a pro-
tector; pray, how many do I need?"
	"And so Anna you are not pleased with
your mother's cousin, [she did not repeat
to her that he had been her mother's lover;]
one would think a relative on that side would
have been most welcome."
	"Jane,  cousin mine, he assumes too
much; he comes patronizing me first of all,
before he knows anything of me."
	"No doubt Anna, Burke and Hemenway
have told him what a child you are in mat-
ters of importance beyond music, dancing,
dress and manner. But, soberly, is he not
very handsome?"
	"Yes, well, passably so, but strange in-
deed that you should notice that, you who
never could see anything to admire in men,
not even in the good old Doctor, who loves
you so devotedly. I am astonished; there
must be something extraordinary in Rob
Harrison when you can admire him."
	"O, I don’t know as to that—he has a
fine face and wonderful eyes, very much
like your own, and yours are like your
mother's I suppose. By the way, is it not
strange there is no painting of your mother
in the hall at the Castle? Did it ever occur
to you?"
	"Never, I scarce ever heard her name
mentioned, old Mrs. Hess our former head
housekeeper spoke of her sometimes, but
Mrs. Burke was not installed in the house-
hold in her day, and she always protested
against every thing Hess said or did."
	"Cousin Anna, you did not invite Mr.
Harrison to call again or to come to the
Castle when we return; it was a discourtesy
on our part, or on yours, for neither of the
gentlemen seemed to have eyes for me."
	"How could I think of anything with
him staring at me, in that dreadful way;
but I suppose he'll come again, to see if I
need his advice, or protection forsooth."
	"Don't Anna, you may need both, none
of us know what lies in store, and the
friendship of a truly good man is rare and
that Mr. Harrison is an exceptionally good
man I feel tolerably sure."
	"Wait cousin, until you hear the Doctor's
opinion, or have you had an intuition? If so
I have no more to say; you are invariably
right in your presentiments."
	The girls talked on and on of the strange
visit until joined by Clair and others, and
for the time the subject was waived, but
not forgotten, and it was not likely to be
either, for his destiny and theirs were linked
and interwoven, and the forebodings of
Jane Conway were not without foundation.
	The days that followed were like others
at that season of gaiety except for the
visits of Mr. Harrison, who came often
enough to learn the status of affairs. He
also heard from the outside how things
were moving in reference to Clair and the
title, though he kept these matters to him-
self except as he gave fatherly advice to the
young man, who took kindly his sug-
gestions, and profited by them. Ere long
it was apparent to Anna, who was becoming
more and more versed in affairs of the heart,
that her cousin or uncle, as she had de-

[Column 2]

cided to designate him by his particular re-
quest, was deeply in love with her feminine
cousin Jane. She had not dared to mention
it, though she had been strongly tempted
to tell her strong-minded cousin, that it was
dangerous to receive Mr. Harrison's at-
tentions, etc; but how could she speak to
her of it, knowing of her engagement and
also how reluctant she had ever been to ac-
knowledge that even Dr. Bland was in love
with her. And so she passed it by, but
gossips would not, and soon Lady Walton,
hearing it talked of, sounded Lady Anna
who confessed to her Ladyship that she had
become convinced of the fact.
	"And what is this very dignified, con-
scientious young woman going to do with
two lovers at once?" remarked Lady Wal-
ton with some asperity, for she had not
forgotten that Miss Conway knew of her
interview with Sir Edward and it had often
nettled her when she came in contact with
her.
	"I have not the slightest idea, but know-
ing her uprightness in all matters, I am
sure she will do exactly right."
	Lady Walton was nonplussed and drop-
ped the subject for the time, but she watch-
ed Miss Conway jealously, but closely as
she scrutinized her conduct, she could find
nothing to condemn.
	At last the gay season drew toward its
close and the young ladies felt it was time
to return to their country home. Matters
had been pretty well adjusted in the mean
time and Clairville Hilliard was likely to
get the benefit of the title unless something
unknown came in the way. Dr. Bland was
growing very impatient of the long delay,
for such it seemed to him, though he
busied himself making all the final prepar-
ations in his home, and in attending to
every duty in detail pertaining to the estate
of Sir Edward, and the poor and sick all the
country round.
	Finally the season really closed, that is,
Lady Walton gave an eleborate ball as she
knew it was expected by her set, and Mait-
land's fiancee was the belle of the ball, and
so his mother had intended it should be
from the first. She wore her favorite color,
sea-green, and pearls were her only orna-
ment in the way of jewelry though her
dress was nearly covered with the most ex-
quisite lace; she was like a sea-nymph; her
wonderful golden hair was arranged so as
to display its magnificence and ornamented
with pearls in the most perfect taste; when
she danced it was as though she flew fairy-
footed or glided in air; she was so unlike
other young ladies that she could not fail to
be attractive wherever she went; there was
a naivete, a freshness too about her that was
delightfully charming. Uncle Rob as he
watched her in the great hall gliding about
was as one enchanted, it carried him back
to the time when his cousin had made his
heart beat rapturously, and he walked out
into the fresh air to regain his bewildered
senses; some one else was in the same or a
similar mood, for he saw a few steps away
from him a woman pacing up and down as
though in deep thought. She was dressed
in pure white, a mantle trimmed with swan's
down thrown loosely over her head almost
concealed her face, but he recognized Jane
Conway, and wondered why she should
wish to withdraw from the gay crowd. She
caught sight of him almost at the same
moment and it was impossible to avoid
speaking. Both felt it, a sort of unwelcome
encounter, they were anxious to avoid each
other, yet fate would have it so. Mr. Har-

[Column 3]

rison seeing the dilemma made bold to ask
why she was out in the night air, was she
not fearful of taking cold in such a light
costume? She replied freezingly, and he
urged her to avoid the damp or she would
scarcely be equal to the journey contempla-
ted so soon. And he added,as if by way of
drawing her into conversation, "would you
mind telling me how you like the country
residence of your late uncle, and what there
is of interest in the neighborhood?"
	"O, as to that you can come and see for
yourself, there is a fine park and plenty of
game in the hunting season, and I've no
doubt that would suit you as it does most
Englishmen."
	"I was wondering if you would think it
worth your while to invite me for any season,
the hunting season is a long way off, I
might be far enough away before that time
comes."
	Jane scarce knew what reply to make
but added, "No doubt my cousins will wish
you to come soon, they will be lonely after
the gaieties of London, there is no society
there, that is it is a long way to the nearest
neighbor's and in fact we never have visited.
My uncle did not mingle with the people in
that vicinity, and consequently we do not
know them."
	"Then when you return do you expect to
live in retirement after such a round of
pleasure as your cousins have kept up the
last few months?"
	"I scarcely know; there will be some
changes in the house I presume, it will be
positively necessary if Clair succeeds to the
title, you must know better than I do, I've
never known much of such matters, my life
was very quiet until I came to stay at my
uncle's and since then so much has happened
that I wonder how I have kept my senses."
	"This is most interesting, pray enlighten
me. I am totally uninformed of matters in
English country life anywhere, though
when a boy (and that was long ago) I knew
Devonshire pretty well, a charming pastoral
country. But really we must not linger here,
not only the damp air, but Anna might be
looking for you—are you not her chaperone
tonight?" And, lowering his voice: "I wish
you were mine instead, I have more need of
one, unused as I am to society." Miss Con-
way affected not to hear him and hurried to-
wards the house, but met Clair in the hall-
way as they were about to ascend the stair-
case, who boy-like, unthinkingly, when he
saw the two coming in together mischievous-
ly exclaimed aloud, "what would the Doc-
tor say?"
	It was too bad to spoil this pleasant lit-
tle interview by stern facts. Clair was inno-
cent enough about it though Rob Harrison
had not heard of the Doctor except as Miss
Hilliard had spoken of him, and had not
once suspected he was more than the guard-
ian of his cousin, but his suspicions were
aroused now, not that he had fallen in love
seriously—how could he, a confirmed old
bachelor! He had solemnly vowed to remain
single and yet he wanted society, woman's
companionship; he had been a mother's boy,
all she had, and they had been all in all to
each other; she had stood by him when his
heart had been torn as it were by his cousin's
precipitous miserable marriage; they went
away together afterwards, and his mother
died abroad, he had wandered here and
there seeking fame—or solace, and now had
become more or less interested in these un-
protected young people for whom he felt
a sort of fatherly care; he was inclined to be
forgiving in his nature, and now that Sir


Edward was dead he cherished no ill-will
but lavished affection freely upon the daugh-
ter, remembering too she was the nearest
relative he had. He had guessed something
of her life through the association of the
past few weeks, and realized what an ad-
vantage, a blessing in fact, it was to have a
young woman like Miss Conway to watch
over her; and at times he felt as if he
would not leave England again until he
saw her fairly settled, happily married.
He was not sure that he approved of Mait
land Walton, and he certainly disapproved
of Lady Walton’s influence, and it partly
reconciled him to their going away, know-
ing Anna would be less in her society.
	Since Clair’s playful reference to the
Doctor, he had serious thoughts, whether
there could have been any meaning in his
words, but he would not inquire lest his
meaning should be misconstrued, for he nev-
er even imagined himself in love, and as for
Jane, he knew she was not, and fancied it
would be a difficult matter for her to fall in
love with an ordinary man—and to him all
men were more or less ordinary, for he had
seen the world and mingled much with man-
kind. Really he knew very little of women,
and therefore judged Miss Conway imper-
vious to the grand passion.
	All the winter long Miss Conway had
been doing dainty work, such as ladies take
delight in previous to entering upon the
new relations of married life, but after Mr.
Harrison’s frequent visits the work lagged
and was put aside. She had never seen a
man with such a conversational power or
such a wonderful fund of information. He
had traveled extensively and never tired of
talking of countries and people, all new to
his attentive listeners. The final leave-tak-
ing came at last and Rob Harrison had to
say good-bye to his new-found friends. He
kissed Anna as of course he had a right to
do; but how should he say good-bye to her
cousin! He considered it and determined to
be brave, he would at least kiss her hand,
but he did not get opportunity, for the party
were ready at a veiy early hour in the morn-
ing and were all wrapped in furs and gloved.
He embraced Anna tenderly, kissed her on
both cheeks and turning to her cousin said
a simple good-bye, though he longed to say
a great deal more. Clair urged him to
come as soon as they were fairly settled and
show him what would be needed to make
the place habitable for,said he, “the old place
is only a tumbled down ruin now, and not
fit to invite respectable people to visit, though
the surroundings are magnificent.”
	Mr. Harrison was in hopes the ladies
would add their entreaties to Clair’s but Miss
Conway was absolutely silent on the subject,
and Anna only faintly echoed Clair’s last
words “we shall expect you.” The coach
drove away, and walking slowly toward
his hotel Rob Harrison reasoned with him-
self, and wondered why he should care
about this plain young woman that seemed
to pass unnoticed by all for he had not heard
from any one of the many gentlemen who
had spoken so often of his cousin Lady
Anna, one single word of Miss Conway.
And yet he knew she was a very superior
person. He felt it very strongly and
wondered other men were not also aware of
her superiority.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


False friendship, like the ivy, decays and
ruins the walls it embraces, but true friend-
ship gives new life and animation to the
object it supports.—Burton.


WILL YOU COME WHEN I AM DYING?

	WILL you come when I am dying?
		Fold my weary hands in thine,
	'Till time’s wheels in their swift flying,
		Backward turn to days lang syne?
	Sing to me those songs of childhood,
		Trill them o’er in sweetest tone,
	’Till loved voices long since silent,
		Blend and mingle with thine own?
	Fair soft arms around me twining,
		Tender smile and fond caress,
	Give each dark cloud silver lining,
		Scatter cares that long opprest.
	Hope’s bright star gilds plainest duty,
		Infant’s joys and childish fears,
	Youth developed into beauty,
		Come as backward roll the years.
	Light from heaven’s clear vault shining,
		Penetrates thro’ ages mold,
	Brings again life’s dewy morning,
		Radiant with green and gold.
								LUCY.


MOTHER'S BIRTHDAY.

DEAR mother, ah! that saintly name
	Makes each fond impulse start;
Afar or near, 'tis e'en the same,
	Soft spoken from the heart.
Dear mother! tender thoughts of thee
	Will crowd our memories still,
Though we have crossed the mighty sea,
	To teach the Master's will.

The hands that never weary grew—
	By love's fond impulse fired;
The face so pleasant, kind and true,
	By us so much admired;
The loving heart which offered prayers
	In our behalf each day,
In fancy greets us everywhere,
	To cheer our lonely way.

Near half a century now hath fled
	Since thou an infant lay—
On rapid wings the years have sped,
	The moments passed away.
They have not idly passed we know,
	For thou, dear, noble one,
Among the humble, weak and low
	Thy willing work hast done;

Hast taught thy children faith and love
	And hope and charity—
Hast given all praise to Him above
	In sweet humility.
Then has thy mission been in vain?
	Ah, surely, surely no!
For thou a blessed crown will gain—
	A world of joy will know.

Thy birthday! may it bring thee peace—
	And each succeeding year, 
May heaven's gifts for thee increase—
	May nothing cause thee fear;
And many, many glad returns—
	May you, dear mother, see;
And live until your spirit yearns
	From all life's cares to flee.
			ALOFA.
SAMOA, July 1, 1892.


WOMEN’S NEWS.
    As the days pass on the thought comes to
each one of us how great our loss in the
death of Mrs. D’Evelyn! Not only did she
perform the duties of the ass’t recording
secretary dutifully and well, but as the
chairman of the visiting committee and one
of the number on press-work and entertain-


ment; to the cares imposed by each was she
ever ready to respond in true, hearty good
fellowship and lend her sympathetic and
kind co-operation. The little orphaned ones
so pitifully left are on the ranch with the
little babe of Mrs. Parkhurst, where their
tiny hearts and lives bereft of maternal af-
fection can draw in that love springing
from nature’s own, whose silent truths can
teach them much that’s beautiful and
grand. The lovely floral tributes to Mrs.
D’Evelyn have been photographed and the
club contemplates sending one to her
mother so far away in Ireland.
 
	In Kate Field's Washington there ap-
peared in a recent number, Mrs. Charlotte
Perkins Stetson’s article on “Masculine,
Feminine, and Human.” This article is
spoken of as being intensely interesting and
written in a masterly style.
 
	The annual convention of P. C.W. P. A.,
will be held in San Francisco on the days of
the 21, 22, and 23 of September—at which
time the election of new officers will take
place.
			ALMA PRISCILLA ALDEN.
	SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 1892.


APPRECIATIVE.

	The following is from a gentleman in the
South who received a complimentary of our
paper recently:
Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	This is only intended to convey to you the
information that the WOMAN'S EXPONENT came
to hand by the last mail and rest asured I am much
pleased with the work, and sincerely wish that a
copy of it was in the hand of every person in-
terested in the welfare of the human family.
And in the mean time believe me, most respect-
fully,
			N. P. L.
July 26, 1892.

THE FIRST PRIMARY.

Editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister:—It is fourteen years today since
the first Primary Association was organized
in the church with Sister Aurelia S. Rogers
of Farmington, President. Today being
our annual meeting day, we held a meet-
ing and reorganized, the officers now be-
ing Miss Nettie Abbott President, Miss
Mary Millard and Mrs. M. E. Knowlton
Counselors, Miss Phebe McLaughlin Secre-
tary.
	There were twelve visiting sisters present, 
Stake Pres't Rogers and Counselors Hess
and Clark being among the number. We
had an excellent time. Our programme
consisted of songs, dialogues, recitations,
questions and answers on the creation, and
a review of simple Bible Stories, gotten up
for the occasion, short speeches by a num-
ber of the sisters, and altogether we had a
time long to be remembered, not the least
pleasing feature of the entertainment being
the response to roll call by sentiment,
four years old darlings answering in
this way.
	There was also a letter read from Sister
Lula Greene Richards regretting her in-
ability to be present at our meeting, and ex-
pressive of love and good feeling for the
little ones. Very Respectfully,
			MINERVA E. KNOWLTON.
	FARMINGTON, Aug. 11, 1892.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	SEPTEMBER 1, 1892.


THE INDUSTRIAL PROBLEM.

	WHEN one comes directly upon the scene of a
recent strike, it becomes a positive necessity to
enter into the subject more or less; one can
scarcely be neutral in opinion if one may in ex-
pression. Being specially interested in the sub-
ject on general principles, and as one of the im-
portant questions of the day, and having relatives
in the immediate vicinity of one of the terrible
strikes (the one in Northern Idaho) it has been a
study with the writer for the past few weeks, and
reading what is said from time to time in the
papers, one can scarcely help forming an opinion
of some sort in the premises. But here we are
right on the spot where the thickest of the trouble
occurred, and having it from the people them-
selves who are most deeply concerned and have
suffered from the consequences. Perhaps after
some days' sojourn we may be able out of all we
see and hear to get a clear understanding and to
write something for the readers of the EXPONENT.
	The soldiers are here and the prisoners too (or
were), though some are to be tried to-day or are
taken over for trial in Coeur d' Alene City where
the lawyers and judges have already collected to
hold court.
	The citizens of Wallace and vicinity have some
sense of security since the arrival of the troops,
previous to that there was none for either life or
property. No one knew, however innocent of
offence in thought, word, or deed he might be, at
what moment he would be shot, or ordered to
leave the town. The inhabitants were terror-
stricken; men with families, ordered to go, were
left without the least choice and women and
children were at the mercy of the strikers. Some
men did not go and the troops barely arrived in
time to protect them.
	We have not space in this issue for any ex-
tended notice of the situation, but in our next
ssue will have a paper giving some of the real
facts and incidents, meantime we give an extract
from the London Times we culled en route.
	"The labor troubles in the United States have
taken a form not to be distinguished from civil
war. We cannot yet venture to think the danger
is ended. It is small wonder that the course of
affairs is watched with alarm by those in whose
memory the events of 1877 are still fresh."
	Another quotation from the Chronicle of
London, August 20, says:
	"The American people had the most splendid
inheritance ever conferred on a nation, and they
have grossly misused it. Hordes of vulgar office-
seekers have been permitted to fatten on the pub-
lic body; great cities are given over to men who
ought to be in prison; and millions on millions of
acres of public lands are given with a light heart
to railway corporations, which now threaten to
strangle the republic in their octopus-like grasp.
This is really practical anarchism, which ruins


states, compared with which the anarchism of a
handful of desperate families is almost innocuous.
That is the general moral of a labor war, but
there are special questions relating to railway
and convict labor. It is simply monstrous that
capitalists are allowed to use convict labor, so
monstrous that no self-respecting community
could possibly tolerate it."
	WALLACE, IDAHO, August 23, 1892.


MRS. PARKER AND MISS HEFRON.

	ON Wednesday we had a very interesting call
from Mrs. Parker, of Chicago, and Miss Hefron,
of Utica, N. Y., two ladies who have been at Provo
assisting Col. Parker in the summer school
lectures there for teachers. The Colonel returned
home several days before his wife and Miss
Hefron. We were very much disappointed that
Mrs. Parker could not give her lecture upon
Dress Reform here in the Tabernacle, but she
assured us that it would be a pleasure for her to
come again, and as she had an engagement in
Kansas for October she will likely come as far as
Salt Lake; at least so she thinks now, unless
something unforeseen prevents her.
	Mrs. Parker has been quite strongly impressed,
since coming here, with many of the things which
have come under her observation, or been
brought to her notice. She talked freely with the
writer, asking questions about the early pioneer
life, and the conditions affecting women and
children under the law; and she has taken home
with her many books treating upon the doctrines
and principles of the Church, its history and
special matters of importance.
	People like Colonel Parker and his wife, Presi-
dent Elliot and wife, and others of intelligence
and liberal views who come here without
prejudice and stay long enough to see for them-
selves, cannot fail but do good by the impressions
they will make concerning the position here, and
by and by this people and their work in build-
ing up this Territory will be better understood
than it is at present.
	We were specially interested in Mrs. Parker
because of her being one of the Committee on
Dress Reform appointed by the National Council,
and also, as we found on meeting her, that she had
a very fine, well-modulated voice and most win-
ning address, she would make a profound im-
pression upon her audience wherever she might
speak. All these things tell well for woman's
cause, and help to uplift it.
	There is no doubt but Col. and Mrs. Parker
have done a good work among the teachers here
in this Territory and broadened their ideas and
methods, as contact with others always does
naturally.
	We are very glad to be interviewed by such
people as Mrs. Parker, and Miss Hefron, and
Miss Balgarnie, and Capt. Thomson of the Royal
Army of England, with whom we had a most in-
teresting conversation on Mormonism when, on
his way from San Francisco to New York, he
passed through Salt Lake City. In fact, this city
has come to be a great center of attraction for
tourists, romantically situated as it is midway
between the Missouri river and the Pacific Coast,
and with its peculiar history of a peculiar people.
The Temples built in various places are singular
attractions and significant of this people and
their religion.


[Column 1]

EDMUND RUSSELL.

[The Exponent of the Art of Expression.]
	The visit of Mr. Russell to this office on Thurs-
day, August 18th, was a real pleasure, to say the
least. To describe this apostle of Delsarte we
are totally incompetent, but we can tell our

[Column 2]

﻿readers in our own way something of him and
his ideas, which seem new ones to the uninitiated
in the art of expression which he enunciates
emphatically by means of his own personality
when you come face to face with him. He must
be seen and heard if one would realize what
his work, and the art he represents, has de-
veloped in him. He gives you in a few minutes'
conversation, in word painting, many wonderful
suggestions and makes you feel them to be real
stepping stones upward and onward.
	If he had been common-place and uninterest-
ing, coming as he did with a letter of introduction
from Mrs. May Wright Sewall, whose friendship
is so dear to the writer, and who is one of the
brightest and most deservedly popular women of
the country, and is the President of the National
Council of Women of the United States, we
should most certainly have been glad to show
him some courtesy or favor; but when we found
him such a perfect conversationalist, and so de-
sirous to hear of our country, and our homes, our
only regret was that our time was limited, and
that we should not be able to hear him in some
large parlor or building in this city, though we
most sincerely hope he will remain and speak
here.
	To be sure we had heard of his celebrity and
his aesthetic success, or successes, but never
dreamed his work anything so real and yet
ideal.
	The underlying facts are, or seem to be, to
make the most and the best of actual life, or to
get the best results from all one does, and to do
everything with that intention.
	Mr. Russell does not approve of the modern
method of education, because of its abnormal
tendency to the development of the mental
faculties at the expense of the physical.
	It is said Delsarte "studied man's nature from
a physical as well as mental standpoint, believing
that the mental, the moral and the physical
should be educated at the same time, and each in
perfect harmony with the other."
	We as a people should go a little farther and
say the spiritual nature also. Perfect harmony of
all attributes, of all work, is the perfection of
skill in any direction, or in any science, or in any
matter. That is the established fact, but how to
produce that harmony is the problem.
	If men and women knew how to produce har-
mony in this life, they would have discovered the
royal highway to happiness. Unfortunately
though they may have made some little progress
in some certain directions, the progress is very
slow towards perfection but that is the object a
few are aiming to attain, a perfect life. Truths
are eternal even if we do not receive them, or put
them to use.
	Mr. Russell considers the use of tea and
tobacco bad practices, he also thinks wearing
corsets is bad, compressing the vital parts of the
human body; he says too, that men seldom
breathe right, women never. His lessons are
something like the kindergarten system, illus-
trated by "object lessons," and are said to be
very pleasant affairs, of which we cannot have
the least doubt, after having had several talks
with him, although all in one day.
	Perhaps the best thing to tell the readers of the
EXPONENT would be that there is much of his
teaching that we already know as a people, but
we do not put it in practice as we should.
Brigham Young taught this people how to live
morally and spiritually and temporally, and if
they had observed the hints he gave and the
truths he set forth in the sermons he preached
from time to time, the progress and development
in many directions among this people would have
been much greater.
	New developments in art, in science, and in
philosophy are being obtained and are for the
benefit of all; there will be still greater dis-


coveries made doubtless in many directions, and
by and bye those who live for it will attain to a
higher standard of perfection physically, morally,
mentally and spiritually, and it is something de-
voutly to be hoped for. As Hamlet said: "There
are more things in heaven and earth than are
dreamed of in our philosophy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CHAUTAUQUA ASSEMBLY.

	The Chautauqua Assembly has grown to be a
national affair so to speak. In nearly every state
and territory a circle or club has been organized
and is in working order, and yet many people do
not understand its object or scope. It seems to
the writer that it is one of the most generally
educational institutions of the day. We give be-
low some brief minutes of an Assembly held at
the head quarters in Chautauqua, N. Y., taken
from The Mail and Express of New York City,
which may give some idea of the definite work of
this institution, and since we know there is a
circle or assembly here in Utah, it is of some local
interest to become more familiar with its plans
and methods. The communication is dated
August 12th:
	Dr. Doremus gave his last scientific lecture
Wednesday night, the subject being "The Order
of Life on This Planet." A large chart was
suspended above the stage, showing the strata of
the earth. The lecturer gave a lot of experiments
on the chemistry of the air.
	"The Public School" was the topic of Emily
Huntington Miller's paper before the Girls' Club
yesterday, and it was an able discussion of the
foes of our school system and the relation of
parent and teacher in the care of the child.
	Bishop J. M. Hoburn, in a lecture on India,
gave the results of thirty years' observation as a
missionary in that land. He laid especial em-
phasis upon the woeful relaxation in the caste
system, which is fast passing away.
	The Boys' Congress held its final session
yesterday, and the exercises were attended by a
great number of visitors. The cabinet made
speeches before the congress recommending re-
forms in their department, and the congress dis-
cussed a bill for the establishment of a civil
academy and to make Anarchists cease seditious
utterances or leave the country.
	Wednesday was Denominational day, and
twelve churches held meetings in the afternoon at
various points on the ground. The usual Bible
conference was held at 2 o'clock, under the direc-
tion of Dr. Jesse L. Hurlburt. The C. L. S. C.
class of '91 held a social meeting at 5 o'clock in
the afternoon. A musical tea was given by the
Girls' Club in the college building. Nearly three
hundred members of the club and their guests
were present.
	The ten classes, from '86 to 96, which are rep-
resented in the new Union Class building, met in
the Hall of Philosophy and marched to their new
quarters and took formal possession. The build-
ing is of wood, three stories in height, and cost
$10,000.
	The Chautauqua Political Economy Club,
under the direction of Prof. Richard T. Ely, held
its first regular meeting Wednesday and dis-
cussed the question, "Has Political Economy an
Ethical Basis?" Miss Slocum was the leader.
	President J. G. Schurman, of Cornell Uni-
versity, delivered a lecture in the Hall of
Philosophy at 5 o'clock on the topic, "Free Will
versus Automatism."


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this City on Friday, September
23, meetings commencing at 10 a. m., and at 2 p.
m., as usual. Officers from all the branches of the


Society in the county are urgently requested to
come, that there may be a fair representation of
the work with its growth, development and pro-
gress temporally and spiritually.
	THE Secretaries of the several Stakes of Zion
both here and abroad are specially requested to
send semi-annual reports immediately, properly
prepared upon the printed blanks, to Mrs. Romania
B. Pratt, M. D., Assistant Secretary, 206, North,
Second West, Salt Lake City, that she may have a
correct and full report of the status and work of
the Relief Society ready for the October Confer-
ence.


[Column 1]

LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETINGS.

	THE Ladies' semi-monthly meeting in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, July 16, 1892, was an in-
teresting occasion. Counselor Elizabeth Webb
presided. Meeting opened with singing, "Lord
we come before thee now," prayer was offered
by Sister E. S. Taylor, continued by singing,
"Welcome best of all good meetings" &c. Sister
Webb made some general remarks suitable to the
occasion, and requested the sisters to speak and
bear testimony. Sister M. Y. Dougal spoke of
the necessity of diligence and faithfulness and of
the judgments to be poured out in the last days
and that they would commence in Zion. Alluded
to the temptations around the pathway of the
young people at the present time.
	Sister Julia C. Howe followed and spoke of the
spirit of God manifest in the meeting, and of the
higher duties and responsibilities of this people.
	Sister Mary Silver spoke encouragingly to the
Scandinavian sisters and of their integrity to the
Gospel, also referred to the evils of the present
day and the calamities coming upon the earth.
	The sisters joined in singing, "There's a feast
of fat things" etc.
	Sisters Corbett and Brown each bore testimony.
Sister E. S. Taylor spoke a short time upon the
duties of the Saints and the individual work each
one had to do, urged the sisters to greater faith-
fulness. Sisters Snow, Smith and Forseith each
one bore testimony to the truth.
	Sister H. C. Young spoke of a prophecy in re-
gard to the Scandinavians and advised them to
teach their children their own language.
	Sister Mary E. Bassett, Sister Margaret State
and others each bore testimony and at the close
Sister Webb expressed her good and kindly feel-
ing and that the good spirit had been with us;
spoke of the work to be accomplished for the re-
demption of the dead. Adjourned with singing,
and prayer by Sister E. S. Taylor.

	On July 30, at the Ladies' semi-monthly meet-
ing, the President, M. I. Horne, presided.
Opened by singing "Where the voice of friend-
ship's heard," prayer by Sister H. C. Young,
singing "O, happy souls who pray." Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved. President
Home made an interesting speech upon the
prophecies and their fulfillment. Spoke feelingly
of the labor troubles and strikes throughout the
land and thought we should all watch and pray
without ceasing. Sister H. M. Whitney dwelt
upon spiritual things, and of her sorrow at the
condition of the world, desired to see the Temple
completed, and alluded to her anxiety for the
young.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke upon charity
and the healing of the sick, also concerning testi-
mony and many other things.
	Sister Parry of Cassia Stake bore a good testi-
mony, also Sister Cook, Sister Silver, Sister B.
W. Smith, Sister Brown, Sister Phelps, Sister
Stevenson and Sister Howard. President Horne
closed with some interesting remarks, and the
sisters sang "Our God we raise to Thee;" bene-
diction by Sister E. S. Taylor.

[Column 2]

	August 13, 1892, Counselor B. W. Smith pre-
siding: singing, "Come O, thou king of kings,"
prayer by Sister E. Webb, continued by singing,
"Our God we raise to thee." Sister Smith spoke a
short time and was followed by Sister S. M. Kimball,
who spoke upon co-operation and improvement
and urged all to seek for intelligence. Sister E.
Stevensen spoke upon sacrifices and missionary
labors and other important matters.
	Mrs. Ashbrook, M. D., was invited to speak,
she alluded to the opinions of the outside world
concerning this people, but she had proved them
to be honest and upright; stated that she desired
to overcome her pride and accept the truth, and
asked an interest in the faith and prayers of the
sisters.
	Sisters C. C. R. Wells, Corbett and others bore
testimony and Sister B. W. Smith closed with
some remarks about the love we should cultivate
for each other. Singing, Doxology, benediction
S. M. Kimball.
		MARGARET A. CAINE, Sec., pro tem.


STOCKHOLDERS’ MEETING.
	MINUTES of the semi-annual Stockholders’
meeting of the W. C. M. & M. Institution, held
August 13th 1892, in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms.
	Meeting was called to order by Vice President
M. Y. Dougal, President M. I. Horne being
absent from the city. Prayer was offered by C.
C. R. Wells. The minutes of the previous or
annual meeting were read and accepted. The
semi-annual report of the financial condition of
the business was then rendered by the Secretary.
	The following names were presented as nomi-
nees for members of the Board of Directors, that
quorum never having been full: Mrs. Lula Greene
Richards, Mrs. Minnie James and Mrs. Sarah
Howard,of Bountiful. Also the name of Mrs.E. H.
Woodmansee as Treasurer, and Gladys Wood-
mansee as Secretary, they having previously been
appointed to those positions by the Board of
Directors. The vote was called for and proved
unanimous in favor of sustaining these ladies as
members of the Board, and as Treasurer and
Secretary.
	Vice President M. Y. Dougal then spoke favor-
ably of the enterprise and dwelt upon the many
advantages to be derived from such an institution.
She urged the sisters to patronize the store, and
to agitate the matter, thus advertising it among
their friends. Was pleased with the report which
shows that we are not dead yet, but we must
have more patronage and a larger capital to work
with if we would make a success of this under-
taking.
	Mrs. E. H. Woodmansee then said that in be-
half of herself and daughter she would say that it
was in deference to the wishes of the Board of
Directors that they had again accepted these posi-
tions, as Mrs. Minnie James and Mrs. Carrie
Thomas, being occupied with domestic affairs,
were not able to devote their time to the Institu- 
tion. Spoke of the benefit of being able to ap-
prentice our daughters under a good influence,
and said if we will be patient some one, in the not
distant future, will have the pleasure of declaring
a dividend. Mrs. M. W. Wilcox spoke encourag-
ingly of our condition, and urged the necessity of
selling more stock; mentioned the pleasant in-
fluence which had always existed in our Institu-
tion. Mrs. C. C. R. Wells said that the Institu-
tion is as safe as the bank so far as we have gone,
but our hands are tied for the want of more capi-
tal; urged the sisters to take more stock and sus-
tain this Institution, as it will be for our benefit
in many ways.
	Meeting adjourned for six months or until the
Saturday nearest the 15th of February.
GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ITEMS FROM THE NORTH.

Editor EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER:—I am always pleased to receive
my EXPONENT, it seems like having a good visit
with an old friend. I was acquainted in my
younger days with several of the sisters that write
good articles for the paper and it fills my heart
with joy and satisfaction to read them.
	The health of the Saints in Bannock Stake is,
generally speaking, good at present. I had the
honor with Stake President Temperance
Hinckly of the Relief Society, to accompany
President Ricks and his Counselors, (as also
Sisters E. Ricks and C. Smith in behalf of the
Young Ladies' Association) on a tour around the
south part of Bannock Stake. We held twenty
meetings, traveled two hundred and eleven miles
and home again in ten days. We had an enjoyable
time, were met with welcome and good cheer,
wherever we went with the Saints. It seems to me
that those who desire to live their religion can
see the necessity of doing so more and more
every day. I can testify to the fact that there is
a united band of faithful sisters in the Bannock
Stake Relief Society, willing to respond to every
call made upon them.
	I forgot to mention Patriarch A. E. Hinckly
was with President Ricks on his tour; he blest
the Saints in the congregations, also their fields
and all they possessed, that they might grow and
increase; also N. C. Watkins, Principal of Ban-
nock Stake Academy traveled and talked in be-
half of having religious classes for those that
could not attend the Academy. How wise in 
President Woodruff! He is truly a father looking
after the interests of our children, the poor as
well as the rich, to see that all are educated in
the principles of the Gospel, the future hope of
Zion.
	These are a few rambling ideas; excuse me for
encroaching on your valuable time and believe
me a sincere friend of the EXPONENT.
	MRS. M. S. ANDERSON.
KAINTUCK, BINGHAM COUNTY, IDAHO.
Aug. 5, 1892.


NATURE.

	WE are all lovers of the beautiful I believe, yet
we must all realize that imitation will not com-
pare with that which is real, accordingly the God
of nature must surely have the preference, in our
love and admiration, because His intelligence
supersedes all else.
	There is however another class of people who
are not capacitated to imitate nature of this kind,
yet learn useful lessons by observation and re-
flection.
	We have a specimen of this kind in our school
books which I read in my youth, but they have
long since been called in and others now supply
their place; the one I would refer to is a poem
called the “The Shepherd and Philosopher.” I
think I can repeat it. It reads thus:

	THE SHEPHERD.

“His head was silvered o’er with age
And long experience made him sage
Through summer’s heat and winter’s cold
He penned his flock and fed the fold.

His hours in cheerful labor flew
Nor envy nor ambition knew,
His modest worth and generous fame
Through all the country raised his name.

A deep Philosopher whose rules
Of moral life were drawn from schools,
The Shepherd’s homely cottage sought
And thus explored his reach of thought.

Whence is thy learning? hath thy toil
O’er books consumed the midnight oil?
Hast thou old Greece and Rome surveyed
Or the vast sense of Plato weighed?


Hath Socrates thy soul refined,
	Or hast thou fathomed Tully's mind?

	The shepherd modestly replied:
	I ne'er the paths of learning tried;
	Nor have I roamed in foreign parts
	To read mankind their laws and arts.

	The little knowledge I have gained,
	Was all from simple nature drained,
	In constancy and faithful love,
	I learn my duty from the dove.

	The hen, which from the chilly air
	With pious wings protects her care;
	And every fowl that flies at large
	Instructs me in a parent's charge.

	My dog, the trusty of his kind,
	With gratitude inflames my mind;
	I mark his true and faithful way
	And in my service copy Tray."

	This reminds me of our Savior's words, "Ex-
cept ye become as a little child ye can not enter
into the kingdom of heaven."
	Do not we see in this poem what the God of
nature can do for one who has honesty of soul
and sincerity of heart in believing there is such a
Being who overrules the destiny of the human
family if they will only lend a listening ear to the
still small voice which naturally belongs to man
who is made in the image of God and has a germ
of the Deity to begin this journey of life?
	Yes, it both ennobles and refines the character of
those who will make themselves acquainted with
its marvelous charm, for such it truly proved to
be to the shepherd, giving him the deportment
of an educated person.
	Please read the history of our Savior Jesus
Christ, see what attainments He arrived at, yet
uneducated in worldly wisdom, though He was
compelled to learn both.
	Let us remember then that we did not come
into this world just to eat and drink and sleep,
but to learn these lessons, which we can do if we
practice the lessons that Jesus gave.
								M. E. K.
	Aug. 15, 1892.


[column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
JACKSON.
	Report of the organization of the Relief
Society of the Laklata Branch, of the Burn-
ham Ward, organized Mar. 27th, 1892,
as follows: Sister Lydia Taylor was chosen
to act as President, Sisters May Rogers,
and Agnes Smith Counselors, Sister Mary
Taylor Secretary, Miss Lillie Taylor assist-
ant Secretary, Sister Amanda Taylor
Treasurer. The brethren who officiated in
setting apart these officers, were President
F. A. Hammond, Bishop L. C. Burnham,
Elders F. A. Young, J. S. Smith, and D. J.
Rogers.
	MARY J. TAYLOR, Sec.

DAVIS STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society Conference
of Davis Stake, held at Kaysville, July 22nd,
1892. Pres. Susan Grant presiding. There
were present from Salt Lake City President
Zina D. H. Young and L. G. Richards, also
Bishop Barton of Kaysville and others.
Meeting opened by singing, “Glorious
things of Thee are spoken;” prayer by
Counselor Jane Holt; singing, “Truth re-
flects upon our senses.” Minutes of the
previous Conference read and approved.
	Pres. Grant expressed her pleasure at
again meeting in the capacity of a Conference.
I know it is very busy times here and we
can’t expect very many to come to Confer-
ence; many of us have spent our lives in
this Kingdom, and it would be too bad not

[column 2]
to hold out to the end and get the blessings
that are in store for the faithful. Myself
and Counselors have visited the northern
branches of the Society and have organized
one new Society at Summit Basin; where
ever we go we find a few faithful souls and
they are the ones that will receive the
choicest blessings.
	Pres. Zina D. Young spoke of the
necessity of the young sisters attendingthe
Society; referred to our sons and daughters
marrying out of the Church, many of them
have seen the error of their ways. Let us
all have a spirit of forgiveness and
kindness to all; said that our little duties
should be attended to.
	Bishop Barton: It is the very busiest time
of the year with us, if it was a few weeks
earlier or later more could attend. When
we speak it is not the many words we use
but the sincerity of our hearts; spoke about
using our influence for good, there never
was more need of faith and perseverence
than now, when we neglect our duties dark-
ness takes possession of our minds. Paul
could see the present day, he said the people
would be more lovers of pleasure than God-
liness. I trust that we may always feel the
spirit of humility and never forget to show
our gratitude to God. I feel, Sisters, to ap-
preciate your labors; let us all be true to
God and ourselves.
	Pres. Muir represented West Bountiful as
doing well and all seemed to want to do
their duty.
	Pres. S. B. Layton made some very in-
teresting remarks; said she desired to live in
the fear of the Lord all her days; was thank-
ful for having had a knowledge of this
work when young, also that her lot had
been just as it had. She then spoke in
tongues, which was interpreted by Sister
Clark, Sister Zina bore testimony to the
truth and correctness of the interpretation.
	Counselor Hatch represented South
Bountiful.
	Meeting was then adjourned until after-
noon; singing “Now let us rejoice in the
day of Salvation.” Benediction by Bishop
Barton.
	Afternoon Services: After the usual
opening exercises Sister Lula Greene Rich-
ards addressed the sisters. “How beautifully
our Father in heaven has organized this
Society; the branches are all linked together;
if we neglect any one thing the Lord has
given us to learn, it will show itself some-
where;” spoke very earnestly about prayer,
said that we should have it in our hearts all
the time; if we make sacrifices to do good
we will not lose any thing by it; we should
try to reform our children and ourselves.
"I think it is a great privilege to be here
with Sister Zina and I ask the Lord to bless
us all.”
	Sister Aurelia Rogers made a few remarks:
“I feel that I dare not shrink from my duty.”
Spoke about children, said we should teach
them good principles. “I love to come to
these meetings and have my spiritual
strength renewed.”
	Sister Zina spoke upon traditions and
obedience, said if we wanted obedient
children in the Church they should be taught
obedience home. Spoke of prayer and of
ordinances for the sick and referred to
clothing the dead for burial; spoke of the
duties of the teachers and secretaries and
many other important matters.
	Sister Lizzie Smith spoke of the interest
she felt in spiritual things and thought our
time should be more spent in learning
spiritual things and less in temporal,etc.


Coun. Jane Holt was deeply interested in
this latter-day work especially in the young
people and in the primary Associations,
spoke upon prayer and several other
subjects.
	Pres. Grant said we have heard many
good things and been truly edified and blest.
Singing "How beauteous are their feet who
stand on Zion's hill." Benediction by
Brother Smith. Conference adjourned
for three months to be held at East Bounti-
ful. 
PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W. S. A. REPORT.
				———
		SOUTH BOUNTIFUL W. S. A.
	On invitation from the Woman Suffrage
Association of South Bountiful, Dr. Elvira
S. Barney and Mrs. E. McFarlane of Salt
Lake City, also Mrs. Lucy A. Clark of
Farmington, and Mrs. Martha Fackrell of
West Bountiful visited the association of 
South Bountiful.
	The first speaker was Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark who gave instructions pertaining to
the World's Fair; and other business was
laid before the association. Mrs. McFar-
lane next addressed the house, spoke of the
ballot for woman and treated the subject in
an interesting manner, and touched on other
points pertaining to the suffrage question.
Dr. Barney after expressing herself well
pleased with the work of the association,
dwelt at some length on EQUAL RIGHTS;	
explained many things in regard to the
situation and position of woman today; a
few spicy jokes were mixed in with her re-
marks which were very appropriate. All
wished to hear from Mrs. Fackrell, and she
responded in a brief speech in behalf of suf-
frage and equal rights. Meeting adjourned 
for one month.
		SARAH H. HOWARD, President.


[Column 1]

A PIONEER ADDRESS.

BY MRS. ELECTA BULLOCK.

	[Delivered at the celebration in Provo,
July 24, 1892.]
	The 24th day of July! The pioneer day
of Utah it is called; and why do we con-
tract the term to apply only to Utah? Why
not give to it its full and true application,
and say: "The 24th day of July! The
pioneer day of the Inter-mountain region
and the Pacific Coast.
	Truly this is the day when every man
and woman who has been the recipient of
the God-given privilege of this Divinely
favored land, between the Missouri river
and the Pacific coast, should bow their heads
in humble reverence, and lift their hearts in
earnest praise and thanksgiving to their
Father in heaven for this day—the anni-
versary of the day when that brave and in-
spired band pitched their scorched and
tattered tents in the Great Salt Lake Valley
and seized upon the key that opened up to
our race the new and golden world.
	I am asked to speak to you today in be-
half of the women, who have taken so
noble and prominent a part in the almost
incomprehensible drama that has been
played for the last forty-five years upon this
land, to which the eyes of the world are
turned today.
	To do my subject even an approximate
justice, or to give their unparalleled history

[Column 2]

a passing notice, would require more time
and ability than I have at my command.
	On the 7th day of April 1847 the pioneer
company left the Missouri river and com-
menced their journey toward the setting
sun. It consisted of 148 souls—143 strong,
brave men, three equally brave and courag-
eous women, and two children.
	History tells us somewhat of those noble,
self-sacrificing women, how their untiring
efforts and cheerful influence were brought
to bear upon the hearts of those earnest
toilers in their weary march; and in every
line of their record we find inspiration to
boble deeds and higher thoughts.
	When preparing for the perilous journey
to the unknown west, and the hearts of 
Israel were o'ershadowed with anxiety for
the friends with whom they were about to
part, for how long they knew not, the
shadows of gloom were all dispelled by the
inspiration of song, and in one grand chorus
the hosts of Israel sang:

	"The time of winter now is o'er,
		There's verdure on the plain;
	We leave our sheltering roofs once more
		And to our tents again.
	Oh! camp of Israel onward move,
		O! Jacob rise and sing;
	Ye saints the world's salvation prove;
		All hail to Zion's King."

	And brightness took the place of gloom,
hope banished despair, faith removed and
took the place of doubt, and under the
music of that pioneer song, the march was
taken up, the camp-fire was made more
cheerful, the stout hearts of brave men made
more hopeful and courageous, and those in-
spired words and that music were given to
Israel by a woman.
	And when the fleeing hosts took up the
journey to follow their leader into the
wilderness, that song of a woman brought
cheer and sunshine to the exhausted souls,
after their weary day of travel. Through
all the terrible vicissitudes of that memor-
able journey, and the innumerable trials of
those who came hither subsequently, wo-
man's noble work and elevating and refin-
ing influence were seen and felt in a thou-
sand different ways. We see her when de-
voting her attention to the helpless and in
many instances half-starved children; anon
giving succor to the unfortunate sick, and
again by her encouraging words and un-
swerving faith, banishing from her hus-
band's, brothers' or sons' heart every
shadow of discouragement and planting
there the grandest purposes and noblest
ambitions, perchance mounting her steed
and driving stock upon the trail, or manag-
ing her ox or horse team, as the situation at
the moment demanded, suiting herself to
every circumstance, and cheerfully meeting
every emergency, and with a faith peculiarly
her own, seeing the hand of God in every
condition she was called upon to meet.
	When the valley—the resting place and
future home—was finally reached, we see her
hand in hand with her husband and father,
toiling along unmurmuringly at every
legitimate occupation presenting itself to
her, whereby she could assist in earning the
common necessaries of life, and make a
home for family, and render assistance to
friends.
	And when the great tide of emigration
commenced across the continent to the
"Land of Gold" and the exhausted pilgrims
arrived in the Salt Lake Valley, the created
oasis in the desert, sick in body and at
heart, the ministrations of the tender hands
of those pioneer women have nursed many

[Column 3]

and many a dying soul back to life and ulti-
mate prosperity; and how cheerfully were all
labors of love and charity performed by
them! I have the distinguished honor of
knowing from personal experience and ob-
servation, the truth of what I say. In the
opening up and settling of new countries his-
tory presents no parallel to that of pioneer
Utah. Never in human experience has such a
band of grand pioneer men been surrounded
by such noble, high-minded, pure, and
earnest women. In the organization of the
social fabric of our great commonwealth,
woman has ever been the principal factor,
and her gentle refining influence has borne
its divine fruit, in the rearing throughout
these Rocky Mountain valleys the most in-
telligent, refined, prayerful, virtuous and
progressive posterity that the pioneers of
any country were ever blessed with.
	It is universally conceded that Utah has
the greatest amount of musical ability of
any country on earth in proportion to its
population, and I ask you if that fact is not
one of the direct results of virtuous, pure-
minded Christian mothers? It is said "by
their fruits ye shall know them," and I
stand here today and proudly invite your
attention to the fruits of the social system
that those pioneer women assisted in estab-
lishing, and with religious devotion have
maintained, and challenge the intelligent
world to say they are not good.
	We have but to look into the faces of
those bright, sweet little darlings around us
here today—listen to their angelic music,
follow them to their comfortable and happy
homes; note their advanced condition in all
educational matters, and bow to the fruits
of pioneer principle and effort.
	In the commercial history of our common-
wealth woman is no less prominent than in
the social. For many many years in the early
history of Utah, there was but little clothing
worn that did not pass through the hand of
woman—first to the hand card, thence to the
hand spinning-wheel; thence to the hand
loom, and from there to the wife tailor, to
the household knitter, and the female hatter.
All that the cunning and device of human
hands could perform under the circumstances
those women zealously seized the oppor-
tunity to do and with brain and hand
labored to save and maintain the credit of
their husbands and fathers, both at home
and abroad, and formerly there was no
country on earth whose credit was superior
to that of Utah.
	As to the female literary ability among us
but little need be said. It is too well known
to require comment from me today. It is
unnecessary for me to bring before you the
brilliant array of female literary talent, so
well known to the educated world, but suf-
fice it to say, that according to advantages
and population we have no peer in this or
any other country either in prose or song.
	And do you ask me about our political
record? If you do, let me briefly answer
you. From time immemorial we have
carried in the front, held up to the eyes of
all the world the banner we proudly wave
today, "Not Superiority, but Equality."
Memorial after memorial have we modestly
but earnestly forwarded to the legislative
authority of our great country asking that
our principle be recognized; we have never
wavered from our purpose, and with the
help of God we never will until we are in
the full possession of that which we know
we have earned, for ourselves and our
daughters and our daughters' daughters,—
the recognition of "Political Equality."


——————————————————
	We believe that woman has given to the
politics of our land that which is purest and
best in them. We believe that when she 
receives the recognition of political equality
she can and will eliminate from politics
many of its evil and most damning influ-
ences of today; we believe that when given
the opportunity she will do as much for our
political system as she has done for our
social, commercial, and literary systems.
	We can point proudly to the brief period
when we enjoyed the well earned privilege
of franchise in our Territory and truthfully
say to the world that there was no citizen
elected to office by our votes that proved
unworthy of the public trust reposed in
him. We are proud of the fact, that while
we were exercising our franchise, there
were no disgraceful disturbances at the polls
and that there was less blasphemy than 
there was before, or has been since. 
	And when the elective franchise was ruth-
lessly taken from us, under our most solemn
protest, it was done by just such corrupt
means and measures as women will cast out of
politics when the time shall arrive that they
are empowered to accomplish that much de-
sired end.
	And in conclusion permit me to say that
we realize and fully appreciate the facts that
we are—
	Equally taxpayers with the men;
	Equally amenable to the laws of the land,
	Equally interested in seeing the laws
properly administered and vindicated;
	Equally earnest in every material ad-
vancement of our commonwealth.
	And as pioneer mothers of the Great West
we feel that that which is our right is being
withheld from us, but we have faith that
our strong progressive sons will stand nobly
by our banner until their mothers, wives,
sisters and daughters will receive their
proper recognition—"Political Equality"
not superiority.
		—————————


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

MODERN ADVERTISING.

[Extract from the writings of Thomas
Warwick.]
	Few people realize the extensive use that
is made of newspaper columns for black-
mailing purposes; but a New York detective,
who makes it a point at stated intervals to
answer all the personals in the papers,
states that in one case, out of eighty letters
he received in return to his inquiries, there
were only half a dozen on the score of
which he had any doubts, the others all
coming from well-known gangs of black-
mailers.
	The method employed by these men for
"working the racket" is as follows: The ad.
first appears in the paper in the regulation
style so familiar to every one: "Refined
young lady of twenty, bright blue eyes,
lovable disposition, seeks companionship of
educated young man."
	There are always plenty of fools ready to
answer such an advertisement, and the
young man is soon so deeply tangled up in
an affair that when he wishes to break off
he finds it too late: the blackmailers hold
letters and other tangible proof against him,
and inform him roundly that he must either
pay a few hundred dollars or have his name
brought into the courts on a breach-of-
promise suit. Of course, in many instances 
their schemes are successful, the young man
or his family paying the required sum in or-
der to avoid any scandal.
	The opposite case is also of frequent oc-

[Column 2]

currence. The advertisement that appears
this time is that of the educated young man
seeking the companionship of the refined
young lady. It is surprising how many
young ladies of good family there are who
answer these advertisements, "just for fun,"
and who have their letters addressed to one
of the numerous private postoffices in drug
stores, etc. But, like the ostrich which
hides its head in the sand when pursued,
they soon learn to their cost that they are
no match for the hunters. After carrying
on their amusing correspondence for awhile
with their unknown advertiser, they tire of
it, and endeavor to put a stop to it. Im-
mediately they begin to receive letters in
their own name and addressed to their own
homes, threatening to publish the letters
they wrote in jest unless a certain amount
of cash is forthcoming. The wily black-
mailers play a sharp game, and easily ascer-
tain the identity of their fair correspondents
from the very beginning of the affair.
	If the aid of a good lawyer is secured the
treacherous letters may be usually bought
back at from twenty-five to fifty dollars, but
when the young woman is afraid to confess
the matter to her parents, and has property
of her own, the swindlers often receive large
sums in this manner.
	But the devil does not confine his atten-
tion to the advertising columns of the news-
papers. He knows too well the value of
printer's ink to overlook the possibilities of
the reading matter, and the fact that his ads.
are inserted free of charge is not calculated
to deter him from pushing work in this di-
rection. I refer now more particularly to
the column upon column of space which
the newspapers devote to creating and ex-
tending the notoriety of criminals. There
cannot be the shadow of a doubt that these
newspaper accounts do more to stimulate
crime than almost any other one cause.
Not only does it act by appealing to the love
of notoriety of those who are already crimi-
nals, and so encourage them on to worse
and worse deeds, but it appeals to those who
are too ignorant to attempt crime by them-
selves, but who, on reading of the doings
of others in the papers, find here examples
ready set for them, and which they can
easily follow. Moreover, constant contact
with vice blunts the moral feelings, and
constant reading of the acts of criminals is
apt to have the same effect, and to so
familiarize the minds of the people with
crime that it loses its first repulsiveness.
We must not forget that one of the great-
est safeguards against crime is the instinc-
tive feeling of disgust which it inspires, a
disgust which arises from education amid
fine surroundings, and that without this
first feeling many crimes would have been
committed which are now unrecorded.
	A step in the right direction would be
for the reputable newspapers to abolish the
personal column. As to the sensational
reading matter, it would probably be out of
the question to do away with this, as the
public demand for this kind of news is so
great that the publisher who refused to
print it would soon find himself without sub-
scribers. But there is one step which the
best papers could and should take. It is
the suppression of the name of the criminal
in the accounts of his crime. The individu-
al man being thus merged into one general.
class, with no distinction whatever, the
notoriety would be greatly diminished, and
would be less of an incentive to crime than
it is at present. In other words, crime
would be shorn of its glory, or at least of a

[Column 3]

great part of it, and this would be a good
and valuable work accomplished.


PRIMARY STAKE SECRETARIES.
	The stake secretaries of the Primary As-
sociations are requested to send in their
yearly reports by September 15th, 1892.
The new report blanks can be obtained by
sending to Miss May Anderson, 108 South,
Seventh East, Salt Lake City, General
Secretary, P. A.


MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS
SCENIC LINE OF THE WORLD
RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILWAY
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
..THROUGH THE..
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily 
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made in Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D.C. DODGE, A. E. WELBY, J. H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr.		Supt.		G. F. & P. A.
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
he country promptly responded to.
AVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CIY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
