VOL. 21			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1892.			NO.11


THE GREEN STREET.

OF the ways I wandered o'er
In enchanted days of yore—
I love best a verdant street
Traversed by my childish feet.

It was long, and straight, and wide—
Grass grown thick on either side
Of a road that ran between—
Slim gray rill through shores of green.

On one side a low stone wall
O'er whose rim the rise and fall
Of the wheat-fields tidal—flow
Shimmered in the summer's glow.

And along their outer edge,
Leaning on the wall's slim ledge—
Near the gaps by bold hands made
In some well requited raid—

Peach trees—pink with spring's pale flush,
Or with ripe fruits crimson blush
Made a still, sweet, stir of bloom
In the street's green-silenced gloom.

I have trod it oft at dawn,
When along its way were drawn—
At my fancy's beckonings—
Cavalcades of queens and kings;

Princes proud, and barons bold,
With a blaze of green and gold—
Come in pomp of princely state
All to make my day elate.

Then at twilight I have known
Every mound and hollow grown
Populous with elfin throngs,
Holding fete with dance and songs.

But the eerie shades of night
Made the streets a place of blight
Sprites of doom and shapes of dread
Trod its thorough fare instead.

Oft our childish steps have stayed
Long without the lonely glade
Faltering long, in doubt to choose
In the dusk's conjuring hues—

Human foes that ambushed lay
In the street to bar our way—
Or those things of darker fear,
Rustling in the cornfield near,—

Which our shrinking forms must brush
Should we brave its vibrant hush:—
Shapes that kept our way beside
As we swam the wheats' deep tide—

Counting every yard a league,
Bristling thick with still intrigue—
Ere we reached all safe and whole
Fond home-roof that made our goal.

[column 2]
Gray old roof! thy gables too,
Knew the streets' familiar view—
Glimpsing through intricacies
Of the tall box-elder trees.

And thy many porches made
Grateful gift of snmmer shade
At the end of its green path
Bare in sunshine's amber bath.

Some few rods from off the road
That green orchard forest showed
At whose edge a long path wound
To the homestead's farthest bound;—

Down beyond the barn, whose walls
Saw our grayest festivals;—
To the spring, whose crystal tent
Pitched amid the field's extent

Drew the hordes of rushes tall—
Sweet-briar-wild-rose-bush, and all
The lank grasses there to drink
At this silver-bubbled brink.

Childhood's homel how fond and fast
Memories of thy ways file past
My heart's open window-pane,
Bringing back thy days again.

Years have passed; the verdant street,
Worn with tread of many feet,
Lies—a dusty, common way—
Beaten down from green to gray.

Now a depot's busy mart
Claims the orchard's quiet heart;
Where the wheat-wands waved, there lies
A prone field of steels and ties—

In whose maze, with hootings dire,
Gowlish things with eyes of fire—
Serpent-shapes, with dragon guide,
Day and night unceasing glide.

But no longer in the dawn
Princely retinues are drawn;
And no rush of fairy feet
Fill the spaces of the street.

Passed the quaint and quiet life,—
Blotted out in noise and strife;—
And the romance of its time
Shut in these blind walls of rhyme.
				JOSEPHINE SPENCER.


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England. Social Re-uninon. N.A.
W.S.A. A Trip to England. U. W. P. Club
Woman's Work on the Sandwich Islands. A 
Pleasant Journey—Ellis R. Shipp, M. D. Physio-
logical Lecture—Martha Keeler. W. S. A. Salt 
Lake Co. Notes and News. Obituariy. Eleanor
Cottrell Martyn. 
	EDITORIAL.—Women and the World's Fair.
Editorial Notes. A Happy Event. Wedding Bells.
	POETRY.—The Green Street—Josephine Spen-
cer. Only a Year Ago—Hyacinth.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XXVI.
	THE sacred ceremony performed, the try-
ing ordeal passed, Uncle Rob giving the
bride away, and the leave-takings over—the
grand old family coach was at the door with
its handsome white horses and appurtenances
for it bore the "Walton Arms."  Lady An-
na who was still Lady Anna in her beauti-
ful personality with all the sweetness and
grace of her own dear self—without so
much as a wedding breakfast (as in these 
days) was  handed to a seat in the coach of
Lord Walton's family; young Walton the
proud bridegroom following in haste, as
though afraid at the last moment of losing
his prize.  Mrs. Bland wept profusely, she
had never shed so many tears since her
mother's funeral.  She could scarcely ac-
count for it herself and her husband was
very much annoyed.  Uncle Rob thought

[Column 2]
it uncalled for, and Clair who sympathized
most with her, wondered why she should 
weep like that when his own grief was quite
as real although not so demonstrative.
	Lady Anna was perfectly happy; she was
not one who cared much for wealth and
popularity, nor did she know how necessary
it was to her happiness and well-being in
society.  She had never yet comprehended
those great and homely truths that so affect
our lives temporally viz. the social con-
ditions.
	In the possession of her heart's desire, the
wife of the man of her choice, this innocent-
minded young maiden felt such perfect hap-
piness and security, that all else and all
other friends, home, the paternal mansion,
and its associations were momentarily for-
gotten. Her parting from cousin Jane to
whom she owed so much was as nothing
at such a time but to Jane Bland it was
painful.  She did not even remember that
her destination would be among Clair's
native mountains, she only rejoiced in the
beautiful present, perhaps it was as well;
yet it was painful to those who were left be-
hind, who loved her for herself, her native 
goodness, her personal worth and genuine
qualities.  The servants threw pecks of rice
after her and the old honse-keeper sent not
only an old shoe flying after her, but horse-
shoes as well, even more than one.
	After the coach had gone quite out of
sight, and the relatives of the family of the
late Baronet had spent themselves in gossip
about the affair, the breakfast was an-
nounced and Uncle Rob, Clair, Doctor
Bland and wife, the Bishop and Rector with
all the guests from a distance, including
Lady Walton, and some of the Walton
relatives, gathered around the table, to par-
take the wedding feast.  Gloomy enough
too for the absence of the bridal party cast a
shadow over the sumptuous morning meal,
even though all present seemed anxious to
make the best of it.  A strange melancholy
settled down upon the company, and not all
the witticisms and reminiscences of the
older relatives could dispel the settled con-
viction that many of them seemed to feel
that the change now made, would not be
the only radical one within a short time.
The subject of the future being brought up
each one seemed willing to respond or to
give an opinion and the universal verdict
was that never again would they meet in
that old ruin; many things pointed in the
direction of some new and unknown
changes, that were incomprehensible, a
quiet observer might see several of those
most interested, had strange presentiments in
regard to the future.
	The wedding breakfast over, the party
gathered in the drawing-room and conver-
sation became more general.  A bright fire
of hard wood glowed cheeringly and lighted
up the heavy dark mahogany furniture and
sombre wainscoted walls.  Wine, fruits and
nuts were upon the table, for dessert was to
be served there that the servants and old
retainers might come in to partake the
breakfast, perhaps it was the exhilaration of
the wine that made the company grow fam-
iliar and loosed their tongues.  Uncle Rob


Harrison appealing to Mrs. Bland inquired
her view of the condition of the family and
the Castle and also of Clair’s leaving it to
go abroad with him. “And where would
you wander, and how long keep him from
home, it seems to me a young man just en-
tering upon the duties of a vast estate, has
obligations to fill that require close atten-
tion, a year or two hence he might be bet-
ter prepared, when he has repaired the
house and made himself familiar with the
position he is to occupy in public life.”
	The reply was, “Now is his time he is
free and untrammelled in every way, he is
totally unfit as far as experience goes and
would possibly make some serious mistakes,
having no adviser to look into his affairs
and give counsel, and the lodgekeeper who
knows every foot of the place could manage
as he did in your Uncle’s time, and when
Clair has had the advantage of travel and
observation, he will have greater influence
in the County and be more of a man among
men, at present he is only an inexperienced
stripling.”
	“Yet he is older than Anna who has as-
sumed a position of such vital importance,
my heart goes out to her in tender pity,
and some way I cannot help feeling how
much she needs a woman’s advice, dear
Anna she is one of the most dependent
creatures, and has less idea of the world
than any girl I have ever seen, she is im-
pulsive and generous, trusts implicitly where
she has given her confidence, and I tremble
for her reason, were she deceived by one
she loved and believed in.”
	“You speak as though you entertained
positive fears of evil, is not young Walton
the soul of truth and honor, would he de-
ceive or wrong a woman; If I had any
doubts of his devotion, I would never have
given that innocent, confiding,young cousin
of mine into his care I assure you Mrs.
Bland. I love her as my own sister or
daughter, I will see to it that her happiness
is not wrecked as I live,’’and so excited did
he become that Jane Bland feared the Wal-
tons, who were at the other side of the long,
low room would hear the remark. Dr.
Bland who had remained silent until then,
broke in saying, “It is only the sadness of
the farewell that has wrought upon my
wife’s emotions Mr. Harrison it causes to her
look upon the dark side, she loved Anna
with her whole soul, so much indeed that
she almost felt it wrong to have a home of
her own. I had hard work to persuade her
that she needed companionship; her life
here was very exciting, and she is of a
nervous and susceptible as well as emotional
temperament.”
	Finding her husband so good a champion
Mrs. Bland left him the field with Mr.
Harrison, and turning to Clair asked him
where they intended going. “To the West
Indies I believe "he replied as Mr. Harrison
has seen the East Indies he seems anxious
now to explore the West."
	"And are you sure you can endure all sorts 
of weather like one used to all climates?"
"Now don't begin to worry over me, I'll 
take chances; I could go anywhere with such 
a friend, and he is so lonely I'm sure he has 
had some great sorrow in his life, been de-
ceived by a woman perhaps."
	"Don't say that Clair, don't become em-
bittered toward the other sex through a 
misanthrope, I hope you will marry some 
genuinely good young girl, and rebuild 
this castle, it would be so much better for 
all the people around and for your cousin 
too who would be so much happier to see a

[column 2]
little life in the dear old place, I have a
particular regard for this old ruin notwith-
standing its dilapidated condition, and all
the changes that have transpired.”
	“If I return safe, of which I have no
doubt, I will gratify you as far as the old
ruin is concerned, and make myself as
popular as possible with the people here-
abouts; entertain in a hospitable fashion
and keep up a style becoming the dignity of
the Hilliard estate.”
	“And perpetuate the ancestral name and
title cousin Clair, you are the last in the
male line of the name, and I have some
pride in that matter, it being my mother’s
name, and she thought it one of the best old
English names in the realm, and often told
me of her great grandfather Hilliard who
was one of the old feudal Baron’s and kept
his strongholds and drawbridge and
brooked no interference from the Knights
and Lords who encountered his dis-
pleasure.”
	The morning wore away and the Wal-
tons and all other guests took their leave;
Dr. and Mrs. Bland lingered later and
finally bade a reluctant goodbye to Clair
and Uncle Rob who were to leave for Lon-
don the next morning. It was the last
family party that ever assembled in that old
mansion, where generation after generation
had been born and bred and gone forth
to make a place in the world. Often Jane
Bland had reflected on the past,her mother’s
youthful days in that once palatial place,
now so ruined and desolate. Frequently
after it was entirely deserted except by the
people in charge, Mrs. Bland would stroll
thro’ the grounds and venturing in would
make a tour of the empty rooms recalling
the visions of the shadowy past, and in her
happier moods the halcyon days of yore,
when gaiety and festivity held sway
That last morning made an impression upon
Rob Harrison and Clair that they never for-
got in after years.


﻿WOMANS EXPONENT.


SOCIAL REUNION. 

	THE first social reunion under the direc-
tion of the newly-elected officers of the “P.
C.W. P. A.” occurred Monday last. The
programme was in the care of the new chair-
man of the Programme Committee, Miss
Adeline E. Knapp of the “Call.” She proved
the right one in the right place, and further
demonstrated what brilliant achievements
lie in the wake of journalistic leadership.
The social was well attended and voted a
pronounced success, a feature of it being
the bright, spirited papers that aroused good
fellowship, rather than a vein of gloomy
reminiscent adventures that only revive hid-
eous nightmares. The opening address was
by the president, Emily Browne Powell,
her subject being the origin of clubs. In
her own racy descriptive style she carried
her hearers to “The Mermaid Inn,” where
Shakespere and kindred spirits made their
rendezvous and in social enjoyment coined
gems of imperishable thought that survives
them as monuments of their genius. Terse-
ly she reviewed the growth of clubs, es-
pecially calling attention to women’s first
venture in that line, and closed only too
soon her interesting discourse with a hope
and abiding faith that their future would be
a never-ending success. At the conclusion
of that address and the social, which she
managed with parliamentary dignity, the
association felt more assured than ever that
their choice of executive officer could not


be improved. Adeline E. Knapp, chairman
of the Programme Committee, made a neat
address in assuming the responsible position
confided to her, and outlined her policy for
her period of office. She declared she
would prohibit the airing of fads for the
selfish enjoyment of perhaps a few at the
skirmishing for literary or eccentric lions to
show our prowess we had in trapping such
curiosities, knew the association had suf-
ficient talent to entertain and proposed using
it. Her address was well received and her
ideas generously applauded. Mrs. Hannah
Neal gave reminiscences of Whittier, her
tribute being that he was sinless, spotless,
immaculate. Miss Kelly Kesher delivered
a bright descriptive piece, “Kentucky
Belle,” with dramatic effect and pleasing
manner. Mrs. Helen G. Fisher spoke of
the vicissitudes of a literary profession, and
with heroism said every disappointment
nerved her to greater exertion, and always
ended in accomplishing her aim.  The re-
view was enjoyable and entertaining. A
bulletin issued monthly, containing a record
of the workings of the members is a sug-
gestion of Miss Knapp’s that will ere long
know fruition. If the success of this, the
first social, presages the future, our club-
room will scarce accommodate the guests
seeking cards of admission.—The Journalist.


N. A. W. S. A.

	The XXV Annual Meeting of the
National American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation will be held in Washington, D. C.,
January 15-19 in Metzerotts Music Hall
on F. St. This beautiful new hall seats
about fifteen hundred people, and in ad-
dition to this hall for the evening meetings,
we have the use of a smaller hall in the
same building for our delegate sessions and
Executive sessions. The advantage of this
will be readily seen by those who remember
the discomforts of last year when the ban-
ners placed for the State delegations had to
be removed in the evenings.
	Dr. Buckley has been invited by the pro-
gram Committee to the Convention, and it
is greatly to be regretted that he cannot be
n duced to accept the invitation.
	Hon. Carroll D. Wright has accepted an
invitation to be present at the XXVth An-
nual Convention of the National American
Women Suffrage Association, and will speak
on women in industry. His well known
interest in this subject and his ability to
present the same, makes him a valuable
acquisition to our program. Rev.  David
Gregg of Brooklyn has been invited to
speak also.
	The Trunk Line Association has granted
the reduction of a fare and a third for a
round trip over lines in their territory. For
further particulars concerning R. R. rates
please address the R. R. Secretary, Nicolas
Shaw, Somerton, Philadelphia.
	Mrs. Bessie Boon Cheshire is Chairman
of the Entertainment Committee, and Mrs.
Ella M. S. Marble, Chairman of the Com-
mittee on Local Arrangements. Both of
these ladies may be addressed, at the Head-
quarters, 1328 I. St., Washington, D. C.
			COR. SEC. N. A. W. S. A.


THE Woman's Chronicle thinks there
should be a crusade started “against the
supercilious manner in which the Associ-
ated Press dispatches report all meetings of
women."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ONLY A YEAR AGO.

The noon-day sun wends its golden way,
	Far across the deep'ning blue;
The twilight hour with its soft'ning ray,
	Imparts but a gentler hue.
Silently over the fading day,
	Unheedingly falls the dew,
Changing its robes to the somber gray
Of the by gone days I knew,
			Only a year ago.

Lonely and shrill rings the wild-bird's cry,
	Through autumnal trees so drear,
Making the shades of the dark'ning sky,
	Hasten the night hour so near.
Drearily, sadly the hours pass by,
	From the lone heart falls a tear,
For the shattered hopes that heavy lie,
	For the dreams I cherished dear,
			Only a year ago.

Gone! Gone! no longer the golden glow
	Through the dying day will dart;
And the zephyrs breathe in music low,
	A requium sad and short.
No more will the joys I longed to know,
	Cause the anguished tears to start;
The parting day bears with footsteps slow,
	All that clustered round my heart,
			Only a year ago.

Farewell! sweet dream, for the day is dead;
	'Twas by an icy blast slain;
Over the sorrowful hours now fled,
	Chant but this one sad refraim—
Farewell! Farewell! o’er the lonely bed,
	Where my cold withered hopes long have
		lain;
With nothing to mark the farewell said,
	That gave but shadows and pain,
			Only a year ago.

Tread softly around the new-made grave,
	With its buried contents deep;
Lift not the mantles that o’er it wave,
	The long, mournful watch to keep.
Would that my memory ceased to crave,
	And my heart forget to weep,
For the vanished year and all it gave,
	All I lost and sought to reap,
			Only a year ago.
							HYACINTH,
ALPINE, Nov. 1892.


[column 1]
A TRIP TO ENGLAND.

[Continued.]
	I always slept splendidly while on my
voyage, scarcely ever waking from the
time my head touched the pillow, until the
getting up bell sounded in the morning.
But the getting up, dressing and wash-
ing etc. was the performance that I did not 
enjoy. After a long and severe struggle
with myself I would conclude that it was
really time for me to leave my couch, or
sometimes Mrs. M. would come in to wish
me good morning, thus shaming me into 
leaving it, and I would forthwith proceed to
climb over the side of the berth on to the 
floor, where immediately, without any
effort whatever on my part, I was slid 
across the room to the little hard couch be-
fore mentioned, where my clothes were de-
posited, and if I was thoroughly awake and
ready for the sport, I might prove success-
ful in making a grab for them before slid-
ing back to the berth; but if perchance the
first time I made a misgrab, there was yet
another chance for me, as it would not be
more than a minute before I would find 
myself en route for the couch again, then to
the berth and then to the couch alternately.
	If my stomach had been in proper order,

[Column 2]
the performance might have been con-
sidered somewhat amusing, and I might 
perhaps have been fired with ambition to
become expert at dressing under trying cir-
cumstances, but as the matter stood, these
continued excursions back and forth, only
aggravated my condition, and I was obliged
every now and then to lie down during a 
number of these excursions. But even 
after the dressing part was accomplished,
it required a great deal of manoeuvering and 
holding on like grim death, to keep in one
place long enough to get washed; this
second performance completed a fresh start
must be made in order to get my hair
combed and twisted up in some style or
other, and after the whole fatiguing process
was gone through with, it required con-
siderable resolution to get upon deck in-
stead of giving in to the feeling of exhaus-
tion and lying down for an hour or two,
I always found my faithful companion 
waiting to offer his arm for a promenade 
when I put in an appearance on deck.
This refreshing exercise always produced
the desired effect, that of making me feel 
better. Whether rain or shine, calm or 
rough, a brisk promenade up and down the
deck, would never fail to revive us.
	All the passengers indulged in this exer-
cise and it was quite amusing to watch
them pair off two and two so long as the
ladies held out, but as there were more 
gentlemen than ladies, some of them must
necessarily be left without fair companions,
which fact caused a kind of rivalry between
them. 
	As the time passed on we became more
familiar with our fellow passengers; engag-
ing in conversation with some of them, and
learning bits of the biography of them all,
which proved to be quite interesting and 
altogether contained the necessary elements
of a modern romance.
	It has been observed by some wiseacre,
that "Truth is stranger than fiction," and
I am almost led to believe that it is verily
so.
	There was the young and apparently en-
thusiastic Baptist Minister who was bound
for a mission up the Congo river, I did not
envy him, tho' admiring his enthusiasm and 
devotion in the cause which he had es-
poused. Next, the stately sun-browned sea
captain who abstractedly paced the deck 
seemingly lost in meditation. We learned 
that his ship had been wrecked on the
Pacific ocean, his crew lost, while he himself 
barely escaped in a life boat to an island,
where he was forced to remain, like Robin-
son Crusoe, tho' happily not so long, until
a passing vessel should pick him up. He
had traveled across continent and was then
making his was homeward.
	Then there was the traveled English
gentleman whose roving propensities would
not permit him to remain contentedly at
home amid his family and friends in his 
native land far any length of time together.
He was then just fresh from Mexico, and
wore some odd Mexican arrangement made
of shell material which answered instead of 
an overcoat. He looked very dignified
with his grey hair and tanned skin, as he
too paced the deck, ever complaining of the
cold, while the rest of the passengers felt to 
rejoice as they basked in the warm rays of
the sun. There was also a young and in
his line, successful artist, who was return-
ing to home and mother in search of a heal-
ing balm to apply to a great wound lately
made by the one he had called wife.


She had eloped. with a, perhaps, "hand-
somer man," and not being satisfied with
leaving his bed and board, had endeavored
to wrest from the poor fellow, the greater
part of his worldly possessions, amounting
to $50,000.
	Of course we had only one side
of the story, and considering the circum-
stances, he certainly seemed remarkably
cheerfully and to all appearances enjoyed
himself as much as any one on board.
	We had also a very fair specimen of a
political sycophant, a mean groveling tool
used by any political schemer who would
reward his servility most liberally. At 
least this was the character deduced from
his own statements. He was on his way to
France, no doubt in the interest of some
scheme which would not bear the penetrat-
ing light of day upon it. His manner was
smooth and warm, greeting all the ladies
as if they were special friends.
	Another man was seeking the land of his
nativity to obtain if possible consolation for
the loss of his wife and five children who
had crossed the "Mystic River" but two 
months before, smitten by some epidemic
that had swept through New York.
	Next in order was the young English
dude after the Lord Dundreary style, who
was just returning from Florida where he
had lately superintended the setting out of 
an orange plantation. He also was the
happy posessor of a youthful crocodile with
which he often amused himself as well as 
some of the other passengers when he be-
come weary of the bar.
	Next to the dude, may be mentioned the
young Irishman with his wife and little son
whom they called Brewster. He was sup-
posed to be the younger son of an aristo-
cratic family, and though apparently possess-
ing not even ordinary attractiveness, he had
succeeded in procuring for his life's com-
panion, one of New York's heiresses, and
they were enroute for his estate in Ireland.
The ladies were a Miss S. who had been
visiting friends in America and was then
returning to her home in Scarsborough, to
her the good natured jolly Purser of the
boat paid his particular addresses, and the
political rogue when he had a chance.
	Mrs. B.—an ideal English woman with
plump rosy cheeks and splendid “sea legs”
as the captain would say, a picture of health
to all appearance but who nevertheless
posed as an invalid and was taking the
voyage for her health, with her high and
fiery tempered little daughter Elsie, who
cut up shines every once in a while.
	Miss E.—a young German girl from
New York, who had completely captivatee
the young Irish ship doctor, whose namd
was Fitzgerald; I found it highly amusing
to watch them from the corner of one eye,
as they indulged in their little tete a tetes
on the deck. Beside there was the consump-
tive man whose voyage terminated in the
great beyond; he was lowered in the mighty
deep.
	Captain Rigby, who hadn’t much to
say to any body, and the company of Mor-
mons consisting of five ladies and as many
gentlemen, completed the list of cabin
passengers. And doubtless our party fur-
nished as much food for reflection and cause
for amusement to the other passengers, as 
the said passengers furnished for us.


MISS FANNIE MITCHELL, of Athens, Ga.,
is writing a history of Athens during the civil
war.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 1st, 1892.


WOMEN AND THE WORLD’S FAIR.
	THE World’s Fair work in Utah is pro-
gressing surely if not so rapidly as in some
other parts of the country. We hear good
reports of work, from some of the County
organizations, and the meetings are regular
and the women generally are becoming in-
terested as enthusiastic audiences testify.
Utah certainly should make a fine showing
in minerals, fruits, and in education proper,
and especially in the line of music. Un-
fortunately the mountains cannot be moved
thither, or the Lake either, and these being
the chief attractions of the country, places
Utah at a disadvantage, but surely there
must be some peculiar product, industry or
enterprise to represent that will bring
celebrity.
	However if it is but little that can be
done first and foremost let it be done well,
let quality and excellence be the criterion
instead of size or quantity. Remember
nothing shoddy, or of poor material, or in-
ferior work can pass muster. Bear this in
mind in all that is done.
	In Salt Lake County the committees in
the different departments of work and re-
search are pretty well organized, and con-
sist of some of the ablest and best informed
women in the City, and they certainly are
qualified to accomplish all it is possible to
do, to make a creditable representation of
whatever is suitable for the exhibit in the
Columbian Exposition. It should be the
ambition of every woman who loves her
country and her home to assist in this
laudable undertaking.
	The advantages it will give to women all
over the world cannot be too highly esti-
mated. Even in the little that has been
done here already one can see the awaken-
ing to thought, and the resolve to become
better educated individually and generally,
on all matters pertaining to the exhibits to
be made by the world at large, the history
of countries, and the laws and customs of
ancient and modern nations.
	This among women whose school days
are over, and who now actively engage not
only collecting material for exhibits, but

[Column 2]
knowledge of various things and kinds,
amounts to a diffusive strengthening of wo-
man’s powers that must necessarily result
in good. Every woman also who takes
hold of the work will be materially benefit-
ted, her views of mankind and womankind
enlarged, and her opinions broadened and
the standard of her judgment become bet-
ter and higher.
	This work is bringing women into a
nearness of contact that will increase con-
fidence, and a more universal sisterhood will
be established by the association and re-
lation of this vast army of workers.
	There is very little time left in which to
work, things have really been put off un-
til the eleventh hour, but it is to be hoped
though Utah may be late she will be fully 
equipped, and will receive her proportion of
the benefits of this occasion that marks the
centuries of progress as well as of time.
One of the greatest phenomena of the age
will be the immense strides made by women
in many, if not nearly all countries as com-
pared to the circumstances and conditions in
former times. In many branches of indus-
trial arts, in knowledge, scientific and use-
ful, or domestic, women are competing with
men and frequently excel, and the world
still remains in its sphere and orbit and is
not turned upside down, nor are the laws of
nature reversed.
	If anything could be said to more strong-
ly emphasize the fact of efficient and active
service for the public good in the World’s
Fair matters, we should be only too glad to
help push the enterprise forward; every in-
dividual woman, who has time and means
at her command should use her best en-
ergies to assist the movement and make
it a complete success, that she and all others
may look back upon the representation with
pride in after years.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Relief Society Conference of this
Stake will be held in the 14th Ward Assem-
bly Rooms on Friday Dec. 16, 1892 com-
mencing as usual at 10, A. M. and at 2 p.
m. as this is an important time in view of
officers and members from all parts of the
county as possible, that the teaching and
instruction may be understood alike by all.
	A NUMBER of death notices and other
matter are again left out for want of space.
A story "Angelina" which is partly in type,
will appear in the Christmas number which
will be made as attractive as possible. The
World's Fair work in this Terriory, must
have place now as there is very little
time in which to accomplish a great deal.
From Sanpete County President we learn
that clubs have been organized in every town
and village. The women there intend to
keep up with the times. In West and
North Jordan these clubs have been or-
ganized and an appointment is out for Sandy
for Saturday Dec. 10. There are many


other places to be visited yet in this interest,
and it is desirable that the woman in each
locality do some thinking on their own ac-
count in order to dispatch the work after
the organization is effected.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	THE U. W. P. Club held its first an-
nual meeting Oct, 31st, Mrs. E. B. Wells
presiding. Prayer Dr. Romania. B. Pratt.
Roll call responded to by original verses;
minutes of the previous meeting read and
approved. Treasurer's report for the year
read and accepted. Unfinished business,
motto and badge; Mrs Fox's idea regard-
ing the same. A small medal the size of a
five dollar gold piece, with the initials U.
W. P. C. in raised letters on the surface,
and a small ring attached so that it might be
worn as a charm, or an attachment to breast-
pin or bracelet. Mrs. C. C. R. Wells sug-
gested a scroll to be used in the same way.
Subject left for farther consideration.
	Mrs. Georgianna Young and Dr. Maggie
C. Shipp were voted in as members of the
club.
	Officers for the ensuing year were then
sustained or elected in the following order.
Mrs. E. B. Wells President, Mrs. Phebe C.
Young first Vice President, Mrs. L. G.
Richards second Vice President, Susa V.
Gates, of Utah Co. and M. A. Y. Green-
halgh of Millard Co. Vice Presidents at
large, Miss Gladys Woodmansee Secretary,
Mrs. C. C. R. Wells Assistant Secretary, Mrs
Annie W. Cannon Cor. Secretary, Josephine
Spencer Ass't Cor. Secretary, Ruth M. Fox
Treasurer, Dr. R. B. Pratt Auditor.
	Notice was given of the intended amend-
ment of the constitution. Preliminary
business being disposed of, the programme
was carried out as follows: continuation of
"A Trip to England," by G. Woodmansee.
Humorous poem, composed and read by R.
M. Fox, original poem read by Josephine
Spencer.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells briefly spoke regarding
the general conduct of women during strikes,
and then read a letter from Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp, descriptive of her journey to Ann
Arbor, and named many of the interesting
and characteristic features of that University
town.
	Dainty refreshments were then partaken
of.
	Programme for next meeting continu-
ation of "A Trip to Alaska" Miss N. V.
Davis, poem R. M. Fox, Mrs. E. B. Wells
an article on "Halloween", Dr. Maggie
Shipp an article on "Thanks giving," Mrs.
Phebe C. Young on "Liberty Park"
Lillie Freeze an article on the "World's
Fair." Roll call to be responded to by
original sentiments. Benediction Mary
A. Freeze.


WOMAN'S WORK ON THE SAND-
WICH ISLANDS.
II
	WE procured a carriage at the wharf and
were on our way to the Branch President's
house, when a breakage in our vehicle
necessitated us trying our ability at pedes-
trianism in which we were successful, as
our attendants carried our luggage. It was
well we had prepared our minds for what-
ever we might have to endure else the ap-
pearance of our first stopping place might
have weakened our desire to continue on
our journey, knowing that this was the


[Column 1]

﻿largest and most modernly inhabited of any
village through which we were to pass—
but what was modern civilization to us at
that time; our visits were to those who have
been deprived of a knowledge of modern
improvements and who are content with
such comforts as nature herself provides.
And after carefully scanning the respective
corners of our bed in search of centipedes,
and feeling assured that mosquitoes would
be our worst torment (and we were told
that they were not bad in this district) we
enjoyed a sweet though short repose, feel-
ing grateful for such comfort as we were
receiving. The morning brought with it
rain instead of sunshine, which the natives
said, was like us, "a stranger" to the place;
but the heavens were pleased and showered
their blessings on the parched vegetation.
Our breakfast consisted of salt meat, onions
and poi, which we partook of gratefully if
not heartily, endeavoring to mold our fas-
tidious appetites to whatever was provided
for us. Many of the natives who had heard
of our arrival called to see us. The Presi-
dent of the R. S. Mrs. Lilia West
being one of the number. She had pre-
pared for us staying at her home and heed-
less of the torrents which continued to fall,
she and Kaluapalaoa, our native assistant,
went to procure a carriage for Sister Thur-
ber myself and baby, and soon we found our-
selves in more clean and comfortable quar-
ters; with a welcome that made us feel that
we were at home again. After partaking
of a nice warm meal in haole (white) style
we walked out to view the surroundings;
the rain had ceased and the sun was shining
brightly, and our present elevated situation
enabled us to overlook the entire village
from the calm capacious bay to the tower-
ing mountains of Mauna Kea, 13,805 feet
above sea level 'neath whose brow we were
now sheltered and Mauna Loa 13,650 feet
whose somber greatness together with the
picturesque town of Hilo slumbering in its
shades of foliage nestled low by the waters
edge with its rippling waterfalls glistening
in the sunlight, added to the novelty of the
scene. Oh the left is the famous pleasure
resort Halekainehe (house by the murmur-
ing sea) just opposite the pretty cocoanut
island a tempting place for an ideal seaside
home. How we strained our eyes with the
hopes of seeing just the smoke of the
famous volcano of Kilanea now thirty miles
nthe distance, and how we would have en-
joyed a trip there had we not felt that we
must be about our "Father's business."
The natives were busy in preparing for our
meeting on the morrow and the day passed
pleasantly in visiting, writing and in view-
ing the beauties of nature. Our meeting on
Saturday the 13th was attended with suc-
cess and the spirit manifest in appreciation
of our visit was very gratifying. At the
close of the meeting a native luan (feast)
was enjoyed by all present, a description of
which has often been given through the
columns of your paper. Early next mom
ing we mounted our horses in Hawaiian
style, and our company now seven in num-
ber commenced its arduous journey on
horseback. The town had a very pretty
appearance after the heavy rainfall and the
moss-covered rock wall around the Court-
house, and many of the old residences forci-
bly reminded me of Portland. The
Wailuku river which rises on Mauna Kea
and flows through the town has many
pretty tributaries which terminate in
waterfalls.
	The steel extension bridge across a

[Column 2]

picturesque little gulch which opens in a
small bay is a place of special attraction.
Here the natives were spending the Sab-
bath riding in on the breakers. The cane
fields begin at Hilo and are almost un-
broken for the next 90 miles. At ten
o'clock we were at Aleamai' where we
stopped and held meeting. The natives
were already awaiting our arrival, and
listened attentively to all that was said.
After meeting, fresh horses were procured
and we went on to Kahuwa a distance of
four miles commencing our journey over
the land of gulches. Our stopping place
was again far upon the mountain-side over-
looking the surrounding country which was
now one vast table-land sloping towards the
sea, and is much cut up with gulches.
The high altitude and bracing air sharp-
ened our appetites for poi and for the first
time we enjoyed it as well as our much
needed rest. The next day we held meet-
ing with the folks and as usual had to go
about a mile and a half to the meeting
house, after meeting we again enjoyed a
feast on the good things of Hawaii, and re-
turned feeling encouraged in our attempt to
arouse the sisters to a sense of duty. Next
morning with a fresh cavalry we started
out for a longer ride than usual fifteen
miles over tableland and through gulches
many of which are from 200 feet to 300 feet
high where the road crosses, extending al-
most perpendicularly, both above and below
the crossing, the road finding its difficult
way down the face of the pali. The water
used in the cane field on the tableland
above is carried over the gulches in flumes
of trussel work from five hundred to nearly
one thousand feet in highth, and they have
the appearance of net work across the
mouth of the gulch. The natural beauty
of these gulches cannot easily be described.
They are filled with tropical vegetation,
fern olia's kukui ti puhala, bread, fruit,
trees, etc. artistically arranged by nature's
hand.
	Night brought us to Veloka tired and
exhausted to a home where no food awaited
us, nor was it to be purchased at that place,
for exceptional to the rule there wdre no
stores in this vicinity, but I was too sick to
think about food. I asked for a bed, and
was glad, to have my request granted.
Kaluapalaua was troubled lest we should
suffer with hunger. We had a little con-
densed milk and a few crackers which we
had brought for baby, and which Sister
Thurber kindly prepared for him. He had
been without food since early morning, and
for the first time had cried with hunger and
fatigue. Kalua asked if we could eat such
as could be obtained. We told her we
could, and about nine o'clock a piece of half
cooked hee (devil fish) and a bowl of sour
poi was brought to our bedside. We were
glad when morning came, but were late in
getting started as horses were hard to catch.
We partook of such as was set before us
and were glad to again be on our journey.
Another fifteen miles over similar roads and
scenery brought us to Aleakili. We were
in hopes of meeting better accommodations,
but our experience taught us that where
there was no Relief Society, the people
were poorly prepared to care for those who
might travel among them, and through the
experience we had gained we brought with
us a little canned meat which with sweet
potatoes composed our supper. We ex-
pected a meeting with the sisters, but the
president of the branch, informed us they
had nearly all left, and the remainder so

[Column 3]

scattered that meetings could not be held.
We next went to Paauhau and enjoyed
meeting with the sisters. Our traveling
was becoming more practical and less
novel, but the scenery not less interesting.
In the morning we started again without
breakfast for an eight mile ride into the
Waipio valley. This is the first valley
since we left Hilo fifty-five miles behind.
This place is celebrated for its scenery. It
is about three fourth's of a mile in width,
and extends into the mountain about twenty
miles. The cliffs rise perpendicularly on
either side to a highth of three thousand
feet. The descent into the valley is by a
road three-fourths of a mile long, running
diagonally down the face of the pali. Over
these cliffs used to flow the waterfall Hilawe
1600 feet high, but the water is now car-
ried in pipes to the plantation Kukuihaele.
The manner in which we were, enter-
tained in this place would take time and
space to describe, but the best that was to
be had was at our disposal, and the sisters
vied in showing us respect. Our meeting
was well attended by both brethren and
sisters, and was one of the liveliest thus far
on our trip. Our evening was spent with
the village folks in listening to the sweet
songs of the young natives accompanied by
the guitars, and we could but say of
Waipio:—

The twilight approaches, all nature is lovely,
	Neither pencil nor pen can its beauty, portray,
The roar of the ocean, the waterfall's ripple,
	The lofty peaks hiding the sun’s latest ray.

The green beds of rice in the lois are growing,
	Nestled closely within the river's long bend,
The flowers are fragrant and great in abundance,
	A joy to our heart they ever will lend.

There are beauties of nature and grandeur sur-
		rounding.
	And scenes we'll remember in the future
		quite well;
But the grass hut before me all shattered and
		shabby,
	Is to me of more interest than to you I can
		tell.

It is there where the Elders have often been
		sheltered,
	Made welcome, and cheered in their labors
		of love;
By this same little flock, who now sit around us.
	I wonder if ever we'll meet thus above.

I deem it a privilege to my God I am, grateful,
	To travel the land where their feet have oft
		trod,
To lift up my voice with the same proclamation,
	Explaining the teachings of our Savior and
		God.

	To be continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT JOURNEY
------
	OFF on the Union Pacific at 6 p.m. off
in a rush and a whirl with scarcely time to
grasp the hands of our loved ones and bid
them a hasty farewell. On this particular
occasion the train seemed to start before any
one was ready, and such scrambling I never
witnessed before, some running to get on and
many trying to get off the train, and for a
time there was a conflict of the emotions
between the saddening sensations of parting
and the somewhat comical and exciting
manoeurves of those who feared they would
be left and those who were liable to leave
home thus uncerimoniously. But a few
moments sufficed to restore equillibrium, and
very soon with lightning-like rapidity we
are flying as on the wings of the wind,each
moment taking us farther from our loved
ones, away from our mountain home and
the sacred associations and the sweet and
peaceful scenes of our childhood. The sad-


[Column 1]

﻿dening almost sickening depression of our
departure was intensified by evening's deep-
ening gloom. Dusky shadows crept close-
ly upon us, enveloping with sombre mantle
the forms of our fellow-passengers. But
ere long the brilliant electric light sent
forth its cheering rays and we endeavored to
collect our thoughts while the brain kept
time to the monotone of human voices, and
the grinding of iron wheels; occasionally we
were started from our reverie by the shrill
voice of the iron horse as it galloped fierce-
ly along through hamlet and City, over
valley and plain now toiling up the moun-
tain side and again winding through the
canyon gorgelong after we were snugly
tucked in our berths did the tempestuous
whirlings of the brain endeavor to keep
pace with the swiftly moving train.
	At last weary nature found repose we
slept till the morning dawned, and as we
looked from our windows,what a transition.
No longer could we behold the fertile fields
and waving trees of the land of our choice—
only barren hills and plains with an oc-
casional glimpse of a railroad town to break
the monotony. As we gaze we retrospect—
and remember that travelers in this region
did not have even these oaseses to greet them
in their weary pilgrimage—methinks I see
even now the old covered wagons with one
two or perhaps three yoke of oxen and their
faithful drivers tramping along-side So of-
ten exhausted and foot-sore but always un-
complaining and cheerful, the good wife
sitting in the front end of the wagon sew-
ing or knitting while several children amus-
ed themselves in their narrow home over
the rough unbroken roads. Along the
narrow defiles up the steep mountain side
and oftimes fording the deep swift run-
ning stream—slowly tediously plodding day
after day, sometimes traveling only thirty
miles or less from early morn till close of
day and oftimes a whole week of such days
would pass without even a glimpse of hu-
man habitation.
	Denver is the first city of any moment,
but as we stop but a few minutes there is
no time for sight-seeing.
	Just before reaching Kansas City we pass
through more fruitful scenes and we begin
to see wherein man might make a comfor-
table livlihood by tilling the soil, and our
tired eyes are rested by sight of bountiful
crops of corn and trees loaded with autumn
fruits. In Kansas City we find, that ever-
pervading rush and bustle with perhaps on
this occasion a little additional, for the City
is astir with recent Fair matters. One
rather amusing incident that seemed to be
attracting considerable attention was an
immense ox hitched to a cart, the animal
wearing a fancy head-dress of many color-
ed ribbons and driven by a grey haired
negro.
	Here too we see forcible examples of the
marvelous power of electricity as we see
the cars glide so gently, and without any
perceptible effort up the steepest hillside.
After a short rest and with replenished lunch
baskets we are once more aboard the train
and rushing on to the next important land
mark of our journey the far famed Chicago!
Who would think in contemplating this
Mammoth City with its glorious monu-
ments to men's genius and industry that
it, so brief a time since, was mostly a heap
of blackened ruins, laid low by the fiery
dragon. One would almost think that only
fairy fingers could in so short a space of time
remove all traces of devastation and erect
these collossal structures of modem architec-

[Column 2]

ture; and now we have added to these won-
ders, the marvelous "World's Fair Building;"
The average human mind stands in awe while
contemplating these vast piles of wood, stone
and mortar arranged in rugged and still
symmetrical forms. Truly a study for the
most aesthetic soul.
	Those who have visited Chicago need no
description of the crowded thoroughfares
and the throngs of crushing, hurrying human-
ity. In being transferred from the C. and
A. to the Chicago and Great Western, our
driver in his desire to gain time, attempted to
get ahead of other teams; this proved
a sad mistake for himself and passengers, as
well as the long train of vehicles following;
for forty-five minutes we were blockaded
and could not move an inch in either
direction—with this condition at the present
time under ordinary circumstances, what
can we expect a few months hence when
the great tide of humanity from all parts of
the world turn their faces toward the setting
sun. After a half day pleasantly employed
in sight-seeing, we board the train once
more, this time for our final destination.
	The suburbs of Chicago are no less inter-
esting than the quiet interior. The com-
modious farm-homes, green lanes, smooth
boulevards, and passing a little farther on,
Lake Michigan dashing high against the
shores, the white spray at times coming so
near that we can almost imagine we feel its
moisture on our brows.
	We reach Ann Arbor at 9,30 p. m. Satur-
day, too late to secure permanent quarters
so must submit to hotel fare until Monday
morning. For whatever the temptation
might be, or perchance even an apparent
necessity the good people of this Christian
and highly intelligent little City could not
countenance the breaking of the Sabbath
day. An example many of our home folks
would do well to follow. On this particu-
lar morning as we walked forth to find some
of our Utah friends a deep sense of peaceful
stillness seemed to prevail even the very
atmosphere, for scarcely a leaf stirred and
no sound greeted our ears save the occasion-
al ringing of the college bell which strikes
not only at the hour, but the half and the
quarter. Methinks no more gorgeous scene
could greet the eyes than that we beheld in
and around the campus—the gathering
places of the numerous brain workers of
far-famed Ann Arbor. The original plan of
the grounds is at once interesting, ingenious,
and beautiful. Asphaltum walks, smooth,
green lawns, and stately shade trees of great
variety the latter showing the venerableness
of time, and at present we might fancy the
touch of fairy fingers—or might it not be
the touch of divinity for what other Artist
could give these varied artistic colorings and
innumerable shadings of the luxuriant foli-
age; the maple predominates and its bright
yellow and crimson leaves with a back-
ground of dark evergreen, and here and there
the chestnut of lighter green and brown,
makesa picture on our mental vision never
to be forgotten.
	The campus grounds consist of two or
three square blocks and here are situated the
College buildings the central figures of inter-
est. The main University building though
quite commodious and well adapted for class
work is rather plain and common place, and
must have been built a long time ago, it is
four stories surmounted by a large dome
and of a peculiar greyish brown color, has a
large hall for state occasions and popular
lectures. There is also a large chapel 
where students are all invited to come and

[Column 3]

hear a scriptorial chapter every morning.
The remainder of the building is divided in-
to numerous rooms for class exercise princi-
pally for literary work, and even the
enumeration of the various branches taught
there, might be wearisome so we forbear. 
	The medical building also bears the traces
of time—a rather unpretentious building of
itself though a number of large Corinthian
pillars in the front give it an air of import-
ant dignity. This school occupies a high
plane in its facilities for medical knowledge,
many of the professors having world-wide
celebrity in their specialties of practice and
teaching, and in addition to these important
requisities they are perfect gentlemen show-
ing the most perfect courtesy and consider-
ation to women—giving the same oppor-
tunities to both sexes equally; but this is a
subject we wish to discuss in a future letter,
so we will pass on to the consideration of
the various halls of learning. There are
special buildings for practical Anatomy
Chemistry, Civil Engineering, a magnifi-
cent Museum and a grand old library.
These are all of more modern architecture
and finishing, the latter particularly being a
source of great convenience to students in
the various departments, it being free to all
every day in the week except Sunday of
course, and containing extensively ancient
and modern literature. One pleasing
feature connected therewith is the perfect
quiet and good order that is maintained by
the hundreds of students that are constantly
coming and going—coming here to spend a
few moments or hours as the case may be
before, between, or after classes, perhaps to
look up special points referred to during
the lecture or to prepare for a recitation yet
to come. Not upon the Campus proper
but just west across the street is a large
stone structure Newberry Hall or the School
of Music. A very wealthy lady, Mrs.
Newberry of Detroit, bequeathed a large
sum of money for its erection and it is cer-
tainly a very creditable monument to her
generosity.
	Ann Arbor may very appropriately be
called a College town, for without the Uni-
versity of Michigan it would be quite an
insignificant geographical feature. The
residences are nearly all frame structures
and apparently built for the accommodation
of students most houses containing a num-
ber of suites, a nice large study room, and a
bed-room or alcove separated by heavy
chenille curtains and nearly every home you
enter shows much taste and skill in the wo-
manly art of home decoration. And here
it seems to me the housewife's duties are
reduced to a minimum—very rarely do you
have to step on the ground, for board or
asphaltum walks extend around every block
and I don,t think I have seen mud or dust
since I left home so that one good sweep-
ing and dusting a week is sufficient to keep
rooms neat and tidy.
	There are some fine buildings on Main
Street the business part of the City especial-
ly the Court House on the steps of which,
the other day, we listened to a Democratic
speech from the candidate for Vice President
A. Stephenson.
	The weather here is simply charming;
a more delighiful October could not be well
imagined, until the last week we have been
very comfortable without wraps, and now it
is bright and clear, though the air is cold it is
bracing. There are at present four thous-
and students registered at the University so
you can well imagine the streets and cam-
pus present a lively appearance during the


school days of the week, the great majori-
ty of these students are young people but
occasionally we see a grey haired matron or
gentleman apparently as energetic and en-
thusiastic as the youngest and most
sprightly.
	Well I fear I have made this letter too
long already; I do not wish to weary you
as I have something more I want to say to
you in the future. With love to you our
dear president, and all the members of the
club; I am yours sincerely,
				ELLIS R. SHIPP M. D.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
		PHYSIOLOGICAL LECTURE.

	THE following is a synopsis of a lecture
given before the Woman's Hygiene Phy-
siological reform class at Lehi Aug 31, 1892,
by a member.
	The subject is the period of child-life
when development into manhood and wo-
manhood begins.
	The little boy and girl may grow up un-
der the same conditions yet you will notice
by their walk and talk a difference in their
natures. At the age of ten perhaps every
thing being normal the boy will display
qualities suited to the hardier side of life;
the girl will lean to the tender side and so
it will be through life. They are not
created the same, their vocations in life
must neccessarily be different in many par-
ticulars if they would reach the exalted end
intended by their Creator. What is the end
intended? That to which I refer, is to be-
come exalted beings as our Creator. But
we are dealing now with a preparatory state.
Physical, mental and spiritual development.
Each has its bearing upon the others and to
have the training well balanced must go
hand in hand. The little child must be
physically mentally and spiritually trained.
	Let me speak first of the physical train-
ing. God's laws and Nature's laws are
perfect and are one. If we govern and are
governed by perfect law, is it not reasonable
to suppose the resnlts will be most satis-
factory?
	There are many things to be considered
in the physical development. Diet, dress,
work, play, rest.
	What kind of food shall our maturing
children eat? Pickles, pastry, candies and
nicknacks? Many do eat such things, but
notice the results. On the other hand, give
them food made from grain, fruits,
vegetables. And in all the plain palatable
and digestible forms that wide-awake moth-
ers are capable of preparing, at the same
time forbidding stimulants by teaching them
the evil effects, being yourself an example
and then again notice the results.
	How shall they be clothed? Cotton un-
der-wear, long tight waists, garters, thin
stockings and tight shoes. Mark the
effect?
	On the contrary: give them perfect free-
dom in every part of the body, woolen or
silk next the skin; every thing supported
from the shoulders; shoes suited in quality
to the season. And last though not least,
let every part of the body have perfect free-
dom and be properly protected. Work,
play,rest and exercise—all must be governed
in wisdom. But I will speak especially of
the work.
	I think that children should be taught to
work. Do not allow idleness for just to
the extent it is allowed, it will bring ruin.
Give them work but let the work be of
such a nature that it will not injure them.

[column 2]
As they advance into their teens, do not
put the girl upon her feet and expect her to
stand day in and day out, do not put her
at the wash-tub or ironing-table three or
four days out of every week. If you do it
is at a risk of her womanly development.
	Now we will take the mental and
spiritual training. Great injury is wrought
the growing girl by urging her or allowing
her, to master her education too early in life.
Many of our young girls are exceedingly
brilliant and as they discover the beauties
of the different branches of knowledge
which fill them with so much delight, it is
but natural that they will make an effort to
master as many of them as possible. They
must not be allowed to put too great a
strain upon their mental powers, because
the mental draws its support from the
physical body and if exerted to extremes
exhausts the physical organism. The most
important organs particularly can be great-
ly injured and in many instances they are
completely robbed of their power to per-
form their part of the mission of life. If
these things were not so often done in ig-
norance, how many would be the crimes to
be accounted for? Is it not a crime to will-
fully thwart the designs of our Creator?
	Among other blessings, God has given
womankind one grand mission to perform,
namely that of becoming mothers. No in-
vention can cover it. Woman must per-
form that work herself. And how proud
she ought to feel of the distinction; and
with what exalted feelings should she in-
spire the minds of her daughters in regard
to their existence: making plain to their
minds the plans and designs of our Creator
in peopling the earth. For in these tender
years of their lives while developing
physically they are laying the foundation of
their constitution, their character and their
future hapiness.	MARTHA KEELER,
	Provo.


W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	The S. L. Co. W. S. A met as per ad-
journment in the 13th Ward Assembly
Rooms, on Tuesday Oct. 18th, Vice Prest.
L. K. Spencer in the chair. Opened by
singing “Wyoming,” prayer Elizabeth M.
Price. Singing “Oh come come away”
minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved. Roll called, the program was
rendered as follows: reading by M. A.
Freeze, on the duties of mayor, song
Maggie Bassett, speech Elizabeth Mc’Far-
lane, in which she expressed an opinion
that it might improve the city government
if we had a lady mayor.
	M.Y. Dougall echoed the sentiments of
the former speaker, and thought if women
had more to do with the municipal govern-
ment, that many of the present evils would
not exist.
	E. M. Price, speaking of some of the ob-
jections to woman suffrage, thought the
time would come when the men would be
as much ashamed of the present condition
of public affairs as they are now, of the
ancient “ducking stool.”
	Vice Prest. N. C. Taylor thought that if
women were associated with men in the
Court Room, etc. the floors would be kept
clean of tobacco juice,and men’s feet would
stay on the floor, instead of reposing on
tables and window-sills.
	Ter. Prest. Sarah M. Kimball mentioned
some reforms brought about by the Kansas
women, when they had a share in the City


government, and thought that if men and
women were associated together in this
capacity, it would be elevating to both, also
that when Utah should present a constitution
asking for statehood, justice to women re-
quired, that it should contain a clause, con-
fering equal political rights and privileges
on men and women. Said it was woman's 
province to purify politics, but if she were
coming down to the level of some men, it
would be a great letting down, we will be
known by our fruits.
	Short speeches were made by Maria Holt
and E. Mc'Farlane. Vice Prest. Phebe C. 
Young related an incident, where a woman
was arrested and cast into prison on 
suspicion of being intoxicated, and was
found dead the next morning with a new
born babe by her side; thought that if a
police matron had been there, such lack of
care would not have been exhibited. Said
we could hardly expect that men would be 
condemned for crimes against women, by 
men who were guilty of the same crimes
themselves. 
	Dr. E. S. Barney said she favored acting
upon principle, rather than policy. 
	Prest. Howard announced that the next
meeting would be for the election of officers
and renewal of membership. Mrs. Bassett
again delighted the assembly with a sweet 
song, and the meeting adjourned. 
			C. C. R. WELLS, Sec.


A HAPPY EVENT.
				——
MAY sweet content be yours upon life's sea,
	And every day fulfill a dream of bliss,
Then whatsoe'er your lot or destiny
	True love will bring you trust and happiness.

	In the Manti Temple, November 3rd 1892,
Elder Thomas L. Sloan and Miss Edna M. Wells
were united in the sacred bonds of marriage.
The bride is the youngest daughter of the late
Gen. D. H. and Martha G. Wells, and the bride-
groom the son of Phebe and the late Edward L.
Sloan formerly editor of the Salt Lake Herald etc.
	There was no reception given; but the young
couple went quietly to housekeeping without the
demonstrations usual among the young folks
nowadays; though both are very popular in
society and received showers of congratulations
and some very elegant and choice presents.
Everything looks favorable and propitious now
for a prosperous voyage on the sea of life; and
may their happiness be as complete as it is pos-
sible for mortals to enjoy. The bride is popular
in society, a gifted, amateur artist and has many
other accomplishments; and withal is domestic
in her tastes and fond of home; Mr. Sloan pos-
sesses those sterling qualities of head and heart
that have endeared him to his friends and are es-
sential to success in life.
	May their experiences be such as develop the
best and truest interests and excellences in the
building of a home here and hereafter.


WEDDING BELLS.
"But happy they the happiest of their kind!
Whom gentle stars unite; and in one fate
Their hearts, their fortunes and their beings
blend."
	It becomes our duty and a very pleasant one
 too to record the marriage of Miss Josephine
Simmons one of our compositors in this office
for some years, and who has also "made up"
the forms for the EXPONENT for two or three years
past. Miss Simmons is one of the young girls
who has made a success of type-setting, and it is
our sincere wish that she will be as successful in
her wifely duties as she has been in her work here;
but we are very well aware it requires more
varied talent.
	Miss Simmons we feel has begun right. She
was married to Albert Wilks an exemplary and
upright young man, in the Logan Temple Novem-
ber 2nd 1892.
	On the evening of Thursday November 3rd a
reception was held at the residence of ther moth-
er Mrs. Henrietta Simmons of the 20th Ward this
City, which we had the pleasure of attending


There were present most of the members of the
Simmons family and several of her grandfather's
family, the late Bishop Edwin D. Wooley. A
very merry and happy party they made, the bride
was animated and witty and the bridegroom sedate
but apparently intensely happy. The greetings
were warm and genuine, and there were kisses in
great abundance, from the large assembly of re-
latves. Quite a handsome crowd, there were
matrons, young married people, babies, various
kinds of music and recitations were given during
the evening and each one seemed willing to con-
tribute something to the enjoyment of the oc-
casion. There were a great number of useful
presents,and some very beautiful things given, and
the supper was delicious, in the strict sense of the
word. In fact there seemed nothing lacking to
make the occasion all that a model wedding party
should be. The memory of that evening should 
be ever an agreeable reminiscence in after years.
	May the happiness of this young couple increase
with their love and respect for each other as time
rolls on and in all the experience they may be
called to pass through may they rely upon the
principles of truth, aud have that faith in the Lord
and in the Everlasting Gospel which will sustain
them through the storm of adversity as well as
the sunshine of prosperity.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿NOTES AND NEWS.
	In Glasgow, Scotland,  15,740 women
have municipal suffrage.
   MISS ALICE STONE BLACKWELL is at-
tending the Woman's Congress at Mem-
phis, Tenn.
	It is with much sorrow that we chronicle
the defeat, in the Vermont Senate,  of  the
Woman Suffrage Bill which lately passed
the House so triumphantly.
   DR. MARGARET CLEAVES has been unan-
imously elected secretary of the Electro-
therapeutic Society,  of New York, being 
the first woman to hold this office.
	A MEETING of the Executive Committee
of the National Council of Women will be 
held in Chicago,  December 14-15.  Many
matters of importance  relating  to  the
World's Congress of Representative Wo-
men, to be held under the auspices of the
Woman's Branch of the World's  Congress
Auxiliary and the National Council of Wo-
men,  will be discussed at this meeting.
   FRANCES E WILLARD went to England
with Lady Somerset, sailing on the  Majes-
tic, Nov. 16.  She will return to America
in April.  Miss Anna Gordon, who accom-
panies Miss Willard, will spend the winter
organizing children's work in England.
	Mrs. Gladstone is as young as her hus-
band. Although she is eighty,  she has 
never yet known what it was  to need 
spectacles, and her eyes are as bright as
those of a young girl.  Sir Andrew Clarke
says she ought to be called the Grand Old
Woman.
	Rev.  Edward E. Hale seconds Miss
Willard's nomination of Jean Ingelow for
poet-laureate.  He says in  the Boston
Commonwealth:  "A queen should have a
woman for her laureate.  Victoria is to look 
among the women of England,  to know
who has written, or  who can write,  such
poems as shall honor a reign,  now more 
than half a century long,  which has a
literature of its own, as in all other regards
it has  its own distinctive history.   This
woman is Jean Ingelow."
	The little adopted son of Mrs.  Palmer
will press the button that is to send the
electric thrill through the great machinery of
the Exposition.   The  little fellow is a 
Castilian by birth, and the son of an officer
in the Spanish Army.  He was christened
Murillo Castelar Palmer by the great orator 
and poet, Emilio Castelar.
   MISS CLARA BARTON,  of  Washington,

[Column 2]
D. C., of Red Cross fame, is with the  Ray-
mond excursion party enroute to Califor-
nia.  She is accompanied by Dr.  Hubbell
and Miss Almon.  Miss Barton says that
it is probable that the International Red
Cross Society will make an elaborate ex-
hibit next year.
	Between twenty and thirty women have
already registered as students of the post-
graduate department at Yale.  Yale has
received over $2,000,000  the past year.
President Dwight states that a million
more has been pledged.  The principal be-
quests have been from the Fayerweather
estate,  from  Mrs.  Olive  Winchester,  of
New York, who gave $100,000 for the erec-
tion of the new scientific building, and from
Mrs. Osborn, of New York, who also  gave
Osborn Hall, and who in her will left about
$100,000  to  Yale.  It is good  to  enrich
Yale.  But women,  when they bequeath
money to educational institutions, should 
remember the colleges that admit women to
all their privileges.


OBITUARY.
Editor EXPONENT:
	THE grim monster "death" has had another
victory, and that will be the theme of this writ-
ing.
	My beloved wife Louisa, died Friday evening
the 28th of October 1892, at 7,30 o'clock, of
bilious fever. She was taken sick on the 5th, and
after lingering twelve or fourteen days she began
to get better, and we had great hopes that she
would recover, for on the 19th and 20th she was
so much better that she sat up in a chair; but the
next day, she took a relapse, and from that on
until the following Friday, the day of her death
as stated, she was very sick all the time. The
Elders were frequently called in to administer to
her, and we all did the best we could to exercise
faith in her behalf. She was also remembered in
our public worship.
	The children naturally clung to her life, and
would not and could not give her up, for they
loved her dearly. Four children are left to
mourn her departure, two boys and two girls,
aged respectively 25, 21, 19 and 17; all of them at
home and unmarried.
	She meets her first born on the other side of the
vail, a darling baby who died at one year old.
	Mary, the youngest of the girls, had a presenti-
ment a few days before her mother died, while
praying in a sacred place, a spirit or voice told
her that her mother could not get well; but still
we clung to her, and did not want her to part from
us; and she herself did not want to go; but we
all believe now that it was the will of the Lord,
and hence we try to reconcile our feelings as best
we can.
	She died as she had lived faithful and true to
the gospel and in the hope of a glorious ressur-
rection. She was perfectly conscious to the last
and spoke till within two or three hours of her
death, admonishing her children to be good and
true. The day before she was taken ill, she was
round visiting the sisters in her district together
with Sister Hedervig Christensen, as teachers.
It would be the truth to say that she was very
benevolent and kind-hearted to the poor, and a
reward even for this will await her.
	She was born in Nyborg Denmark the 25th of
September 1838, and was the daughter of Rasmus
and Kirstine Jasperson.
	In 1857 she left her home by steamer for
Aarhuns a province in Jutland to provide for her-
self. In that City there was a large branch of the
Church, and she became acquainted with the Lat-
ter Day Saints, and was baptized Sept. 6th 1860.
The next spring she emigrated to Utah, and then
you know the rest, for if I mistake not she came
to live with you right away in the City after her
arrival.
	On her visit to Sanpete in May 1864, together
with Mary Flygare, I became acquainted with her
and we were married in the Endowment House
on the 15th of June following.
	I believe that you thought a good deal of my
wife, and would like to hear some of the par-
ticulars of her demise, and I can assure you that
she thought a great deal of you. There is, how-
ever, some pleasure even in death itself. She
was beautiful even in death and she was laid
away neatly in a nice white coffin, and the
children will hold this in dear remembrance.


We did some work and received some special
blessings in the Manti Temple where President
Wells presided.  In these things I rejoice and
hope to prove worthy that we may all meet again.
	With kind love and regard from the children
and myself, I remain your brother in the gospel,
						LAURITZ LARSEN.


ELEANOR COTTRELL MARTYN.

	Died May 16th 1892 at Cleveland, Ohio, Elea-
nor Cottrell wife of Henry L. Martyn in her 66th
year.
	The death of a wife and mother is always a
sad occasion and especially so when sudden and
unexpected, and those nearest and dearest are
scarcely able for a time to see the hand of the
Lord in the sorrow that falls upon them, but did
they but realize the rest for the weary soul,
after the toil and struggles of mortality they
could not mourn for them as they sometimes do.
	We were shocked at first to hear of the death
of this good woman a relative whom we had
hoped to meet again sometime, but we know that
it must some day be the fate of all living; and that,
“Angels of life and death alike are His;’’ 
	Without His leave they pass no threshold o’er;
Who then would wish or dare, believing this
	Against His messengers to shut the door.”
Mrs. Martyn whose death is only now an-
nounced in our columns, was quite a superior wo-
man in many respects, a consistent Christian and
number of the Baptist Church and actively en-
gaged in benevolent work and a firm believer and
advocate of the advancement of women in all
lines of progress.
 Mrs. Martyn whose maiden name was Cottrell
has relatives somewhere in this Territory from
whom she was very anxious to hear while she
was living. We should be very glad if any one of
that name in the country would communicate
with us and we could give the address of her
husband and family.
	May the comforting influences of the Holy
Spirit rest upon the aged husband and the family,
is the prayer of one who is interested in their
present and future welfare.—Editor.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
Office: II South, First West Street. 
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
until 4 pm. 

Woman’s Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS 
AND STATIONERY, EQUI- 
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles. Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
	No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
			Three doors west of Theatre.

MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her residence, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 pm.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

David James & Co. 
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
AVD JAMES.  Box 306, Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
