Vol. 21.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1893.			No. 23.


CONTENTS:
	Passing Thoughts—Camelia. The Pilgrims.
S. L.Co. W. S. A.—Ella W. Hyde. Silk Culture.
A Lesson—Ida Haag. Thoughts About Women
Past and Present—Isabella Pratt Price. Obituary.

	EDITORIAL:—World’s Congress of Women.
Only a Glance. Luncheon at the Richelieu.
One Day in June. Editorial Notes.

	POETRY:—Night—Hyacinth.  June—Selected.
Grandma’s Angel—Selected.


NIGHT.

THE twilight hours linger not,
	As in the days past by;
But with seraphic wings are caught,
	To far off realms to fly.

Between the dark and waning light,
	No soft’ning shade is found,
Before the Goddess Night,
	In robes divine is crowned.

Athwart the canopy of blue, 
	Long e’er the day has fled,
Glimmering stars of silver hue,
	Fairy-like glances shed.

And even the balmiest sigh, 
	Breathed by the zephyrs low,
Awaken in harmony nigh,
	Quietude to o’erthrow.

Far off in the ling’ring daylight,
	That seems to fainter grow,
The silv’ry sheen of the starlight,
	Is changed to golden glow.

Heaven a silent watch doth keep,
	Over the slumb’ring world;
In whose ebony vault so deep,
	Meteor lights are hurled.

Faint the gleam of a distant light,
	That breaks the darkened way,
Fair Luna, crowned with sceptre bright,
	Begins her supreme sway.

Pale Moon, resplendent Queen of Night,
	Sail on thy heavenly way;
To thine astral home where sunlight
	Ne’er sheds its shining ray.

Oh Night, sublime and beautiful,
	In mystic silence wrapt;
With awe replete, yet merciful, 
	In thine arms to be clasped. 

Peacefully rest thy weary wings,
	In calm security;
Safely, as by thee are all things
	Locked in obscurity.
					HYACINTH.


PASSING THOUGHTS.

	So many things are written and told
about all the great people of the earth, but
whoever read or heard the biography of
that charming old lady—Mother Goose—
certainly no one’s writings are so widely
circulated and so universally admired as
hers. The quaint and charming style that
so pleases the little child, even before he

[column 2]
can talk, when he “Rides to Boston” on
his papa’s knee, or “Pats a cake,” to the
fond delight of his admiring mamman, never
wearies nor grows old and tiresome. For
as the years roll on we read between the
lines and discover Mother Goose not only
to have been the children’s poet but a
philosopher and moralist as well. John the
Piper’s son received a just punishment as
all thieves should, and Dame Gill was
taught to minister to her brother’s wounds
in a right womanly manner, and so through
ever little verse is a lesson taught. You
may think I have been trying to sweep
the cobwebs out of my brain this morning
by going back to childhood rhymes, and so
I have, I have been trying to recall the
lines to see if some of them did not tell,
who was Mother Goose. There are two
poems which might describe her. The old
woman in the shoe, and if she had so many
children of course she never had time to
tell us who she was, and then the old
woman who went seventy times as high as
the moon, and if she was the one, we sup-
pose she has not yet come back to explain
about herself, but found so much work for
her broom that she is still sweeping cob-
webs out of the sky. All the same Mother
Goose was a grand old lady, and so long as
there are children in the world her name
will be an honored one, and people will
wonder and ask who was Mother Goose?
We love her because she has done so much
for the children and the mothers, and if
some of our readers can only tell us more
about her we wish they would, and in the
future biographical dictionaries may we
find the life of Mother Goose, but the in-
credulous will say she was a myth, there
never was such a person no more than
there was a William Tell, or a hatchet be-
longing to George Washington. Alas! how in
this day of realism are our idols shattered;
if Mother Goose is a myth who wrote those
nursery rhymes.
	Its a long step from Mother Goose to the
great master of English verse, and one
might well hesitate before bringing them
into the same subject, but in one respect
they are alike, that is in having their iden-
tity doubted, and it is a still longer step
from the cradle to the grave; but doubt is
linking them, and this doubt is a very ugly
creature and is doing much mischief in this
beautiful world of ours. I wish he never
had been born, for he creeps into the cor-
ners of hearts and tries to destroy the faith
he finds there. This faith is his greatest
enemy, for doubt is so wicked that he hates
faith for the good that he has done, and it is
his highest ambition to destroy him.
Doubt is not natural to a child, he is un-
known, but faith is born in the child, it is
his first instinct and his first principle, and
if raised in a atmosphere of faith, if those
in whom he believes, believes in One still
higher, he will continue to be faithful and
neither to doubt nor question, but should
the surrounding atmosphere be one of
doubt and suspicion, the child begins to
lose faith in those he trusted and becomes
a doubter and an unbeliever. Men say there
is no divinity, we cannot see nor feel nor

[column 3]
hear him, our reason does not prove him.
Does your reason disprove them; no, a
thousand times no. The infidel has little
to live for and his own unhappy- state ought
to cause him to keep quiet and not force
his ideas upon those who have a faith, it
can do him no good for believing in noth-
ing, he has nothing to return for that sub-
lime principle which he endeavors to des-
troy. Wonders are accomplished daily by
the principle of faith. It makes men
better one to another, and from childhood
to the grave it is a staff to lean upon. Oh,
why destroy any thing so beautiful, so
sublime—mothers guard against this doubt;
keep him from your homes, for he brings
neither happiness nor joy, but is a menace
and an evil-doer.
						CAMELIA.


THE PILGRIMS

				[Concluded.] 
	The company now commenced exploring
the coast, no Indians were seen and they
afterwards learned that a plague had swept
off great numbers of them and the country
had been abandoned, thus leaving it free
for them to choose a dwelling place.  
	While still on the Mayflower a child was
born, Perigrine White, the first English
child born in New England.
	His mother afterwards became a widow,
and was married again, being the first bride
of the new colony. 
	Finally on the 22nd of December, 1620,
the landing was made on Plymouth Rock,
an event that is celebrated in every part of
our land, and who among us that can trace
back our lineage to this brave, devoted God-
fearing band, but is proud to say, "OUR
Pilgrim Fathers.” 
	Of the manners and customs of the
Pilgrims, their many perilous adventures,
hardships and romantic incidents, with
which every American is more or less fami-
liar, we must treat lightly in this limited
space.
	During the first dreary winter full half
their number died. One of the first being
Rose, the wife of Captain Standish.
	Seven times more graves for the dead
were made than habitations for the living.
They were buried by the bank, not far 
from the landing—a spot still venerated—
and lest the Indians should take courage to
attack the survivors from their weakened
state, the soil that covered the graves of
their beloved relatives was carefully beaten
down and planted with corn. During the
pleasant New England summer which
followed the colonists took heart and all
seemed well. But in November The For-
tune arrived bringing many mouths to fill
but no provisions. Having to divide with
these newcomers, caused a scarcity among
the people and great suffering ensued.
Men often staggered on the street for want
of food, and they were not without appre-
hensions of an attack from the Indians. At
this time Canonicus a powerful sachem sent
to the village a bundle of arrows tied up
with the skin of a rattle snake, but Gover-


nor Braddock promptly filled the skin with
powder and ball and returned it, and this
hint was not without a salutary effect.
	At this time a party of some sixty men
came over from England and settled near.
They were nothing like the Pilgrims, but
were a lawless, reckless set. They com-
menced plundering the Indians and thus
secured their enmity.
	The Indians commenced depredations,
and Captain Standish being somewhat
hasty though brave, took speedy revenge,
surprising and putting to death the chief
with several of his Indians.
	When Robinson, their good pastor, heard
of this he wrote to the colonists, “Oh how
happy a thing had it been had you con-
verted some before you killed any.”
	Afterwards many were converted, and
some sent as missionaries among their own
people.
	The laws of the Pilgrims are a good in-
dication of their character.
	It is an interesting fact that the first law
on record secures trial by jury, consisting
of twelve honest men under oath.
	Another law was that if any were
elected to the office of governor and would
not serve he should be fined twenty pounds
sterling; this is quite different from our
time.
	Another, if any man offered proposals of
marriage to any young lady without first
obtaining the consent of her parents should
submit to a fine or corporal punishment.
	Denial of the Scriptures as a rule of life
was punishable by whipping.
	The Pilgrims were unwilling that any
one should charge an exorbitant profit on
what he sold. These are some cases in
court. J. B. for buying rye at four shill-
ings per bushel and selling for five. A
Miss Boulton was guilty of slander and the
court condemned her to the humiliating
punishment of sitting in the stocks.
	John Phillips for smoking on the high-
way was fined twelve shillings.
	S. H. for carrying a grist of corn from
the mill on Sunday, fined twenty shillings
or to be whipped, and W. F. for permitting
him to take it from the mill fined ten
shillings.
	J. W. was ordered to be sharply reproved
for writing a note on common business on
Lord's day.
	Women for abusing their husbands were
sentenced to be fined or whipped at the
post, but this surpasses all the others. No
garment shall be made with short sleeves,
and such as have garments with short
sleeves, shall not wear the same unless they
cover the arm to the wrist; and hereafter no
person shall make any garment whatever
for women with sleves more than half an
ell (22 inches) wide.
	During the first season land was not
owned by individuals, every man worked
and put his earnings into the common store,
but this was not a success.
	When a certain amount was given to 
each individual they worked with much
more courage and enthusiasm.
	The first time that the landing of the
pilgrims was publicy celebrated in Plymouth
was December 22nd, 1869, almost one hun-
dred and fifty years after the event. This 
is the menu:
	“First, one large baked Indian whortle-
berry pudding; two, a dish of succotash;
three, a dish of clams; four, a dish of
oysters; five, haunch of venison roasted
in the first Jack brought to the colony;

[column 2]
sixth, a dish of seafowl. Seventh, a dish
of fresh fish and eels. Eighth, an apple-
pie. Ninth, a course of cranberry tarts and
cheese made in the old colony.”
	In imitation of their ancestors all luxury
and extravagance were avoided, everything
being served in the simplest manner.
	Another celebration that must be men-
tioned was the 200th anniversary. After a
speech by Daniel Webster of two hours
duration and other ceremonials, a pro-
cession was formed,and taking their way to
the banquet hall sat down to a table spread
with all the luxuries the country afforded,
but on each plate was placed five grains of 
corn; this excited feelings of amusement,
interest and emotion in different individuals,
but when it was understood that this was in
commemoration of that time in the history
of the pilgrims when there was only a pint
of corn for the whole colony and when it
was divided gave just five grains to each;
the five grains at the banquet were eaten
with a greater relish than any of the
dainties, or were carefully treasured as
mementoes. 
	The celebrated rock must be mentioned,
though briefly. In revolutionary times to
inspire still more patriotism it was raised
from its place and drawn by forty oxen,
followed to the Liberty Pole Square.
	In raising it, the rock was broken and
this was looked upon as a signification of
the division of the British Empire.
	In 1834, July 4th, it was moved again
and placed in front of Pilgrim Hall where
in now remains protected by a noble
structure, which serves the double purpose
of security to the rock and a monument to
the pilgrims and bears the names of the
forty-one who signed the compact on board
the Mayflower.
	In looking back at the character of the
pilgrims from this distance, their religion
and lives appear somewhat sombre, some
have called them vindictive, but this is
rather unjust. They certainly did many
things that seem unjust and harsh, such as
their persecution of the Quakers, selling
Indians into slavery, beheading and
quartering others, etc. but we must judge
them from their standpoint and from the
public opinion of their day, and not from 
ours of greater freedom and liberality of
thought. 
	Their lives have furnished themes for
romance and song.
	Where can we find a sweeter story of
simplicity and truth than that of Priscilli,
the Puritan maiden, whom Longfellow has
immortalized. Another sweet sad story of
Puritan sternness is that of Hester Prynne
in Hawthorne’s “Scarlet Letter.”
	This illustrates their severe, strict justice,
seemingly robbed of that sweet virtue
charity, wherein the young girl Hester for
her one error, bitterly repented as it was
and atoned for by a whole lifetime of suf-
fering and devotion, was yet condemned to
wear on her breast the badge of her shame
the scarlet letter, all her life and with her
child live apart from the self-righteous
community.
	We cannot better close this subject than
by quoting the fine words of Sprague:

	“O never may they rest unsung,
	While Liberty can find a tongue,
	Divine gratitude a wreath for them,
	More deathless than the diadem,
	Who to life's noblest end,
	Gave up life's noblest powers,
	And bade the legacy descend
	Down, down to us and ours.”


WOMANS EXPONENT.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the
Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened in the
13th Ward Assembly Rooms, May 16th,
1893. Vice-President Elizabeth M. Price
in the chair. Opened by singing, “A
Suffrage Song,” prayer by the Chapalin.
Singing, “The Reason Why.” Roll called
and minutes of previous meeting read and
accepted. Vice-President Elizabeth M.
Price said she thought when the hurry and
excitement of the World’s Fair was over
there would be more attend the meetings,
and more interest taken in them. This is
an age of progress, women should educate
themselves in politics, for they must come
to the front.
	Mrs. Mary Silver, Mrs. Mary Bassett and
Vice-President Elizabeth Macfarlane all
spoke upon the importance of attending
suffrage meetings and of improving every
opportunity of becoming posted in regard
to politics. Said women should have an
understanding of law, thought what was
good for men was also good for women.
Mesdames Sarah Phelps, Mary Sawer
Snow, Ann Plazer, Sophia Lang, Mary
Irvine and Mary Morris, made some inter-
esting remarks on suffrage. It was sug-
gested that the ladies take the Woman’s
Column, as there were some good things in
it pertaining to suffrage.
	Meeting stood adjourned until the third
Tuesday in June.	E. W. HYDE, Sec.


JUNE.—The month of roses—that stately
queen of Flora's kingdom. Now the wind
scatters the pink and white petals of the
fruit blossoms through the air, the moun-
tains fairly glow in their deep and livid
colors, the dark green fields ripen into
purple blossoms and the garden paths are
sweet and beautiful with jasamine, wood-
bine and roses.
	Of all the year June is the happy month.
No fear of chilling frosts nor dread of ex-
cessive heat to blight and mar the beauty
of the earth. The child, the youth, the
man all revel in its sweetness and its glory.
With what delight the children hail the
closing days of school, and after the worked
for closing exercises have passed, without
thought of care enjoy to the utmost the
field day. The sweet girl graduate dons
her fresh white gown and is showered with
roses and congratulations. The weary
professors lay aside the text books and bid
farewell for a season to the school room to
take a vacation tour in search of new scenes
and new subjects for the following year.
	It was a happy thought that the first of
this month should be chosen for Primary
Day, for when nature smiles so brightly the
children smile as well.
	THE stand the Republican League took
on the Woman Suffrage question must be
very gratifying to the women of the country,
especially so to the women of the Repub-
lican Party, 375 votes in favor and 185
against. The women interested in suffrage
will certainly fully appreciate the noble
efforts of Mr. Blackwell in their behalf.
	BECAUSE of the sojourn of Mrs. Wells
in Chicago the story, “In Rural England, ”
has had to be omitted from the last two
numbers of the EXPONENT; but we trust
the very interesting and entertaining news
concerning doings and sights in Chicago
will suffice for the present and by the next
number, if possible, the thread of the story
will be taken up and continue a uninter-
ruptedly to the finish.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


JUNE.

JUNE has the charm of melody to wake
	The air to music when her name is heard;
	In grove and field hers is the magic work
To win from silence song for summer’s sake;—
The winds low whispering, the sudden break
	Of silver syllables where streams are stirred,
	The muffled trumpet of the bee and bird
Whose lyric notes float downward, flake by flake.

Dear child of summer, yours the happy choice
	Delicious days and dewy nights to bring,
To make the gardens fragrantly rejoice,
	To give sweet tune to every silent thing,
To hold the world enraptured by your voice
	And tempt all nature, poet-like, to sing!
								SELECTED.


GRANDMA’S ANGEL.

MAMMA said, “little one, go to see
If Grandma’s ready to come to tea,”
I knew I mustn’t disturb her, so
I stepped as gently along, tip-toe,
And stood a moment to take a peep
And there was Grandma fast asleep. 

I knew it was time for her to wake;
I thought I’d give her a little shake,
Or tap at her door, or softly call,
But I hadn’t the heart for that at all—
She looked so sweet and so quiet there
Lying back in her high arm chair,
With her dear white hair, and a little smile
That means she’s loving you all the while,
I didn't make a speck of noise,
I knew she was dreaming of little boys
And girls who lived with her long ago
And then went to heaven, she told me so.

I went up close and I didn't speak
One word, but I gave her on her cheek
The softest bit of a little kiss
Just in a whisper,and then said this,
“Grandma, dear, its time for tea,”
She opened her eyes and looked at me
And said, “why pet, I have just now dreamed
Of a little angel who came and seemed
To kiss me lovingly on my face,”
She pointed right at the very place,
I never told her it was only me 
I took her hand and we went to tea.
						SELECTED.


SILK CULTURE.

	WE are very happy to note the sudden
interest taken in the silk industry, and hope
it will lead to active work in such a way
that those who have labored so faithfully
will receive an impetus for more work and
a more thorough system will be adopted.
The beautiful portieres and furniture made
from the Utah silk awaked quite an interest
in the subject. Our own people were sur-
prised to discover how much had been done,
but the newer residents of Utah were most
surprised and greatly delighted. Mrs. C.
E. Allen recently prepared and read at an
entertainment given before the ladies of the
Unitarian Church, a very able article on
silk culture in Utah, and though in the last
issue we published an article on the same
subject by Mrs. Stringham, we believe a
synopsis of Mrs. Allen’s article will be in-
teresting to our readers:—
	“The opportunity to make an exhibit of
Utah silk in the woman’s building was
not given until just before the opening of
the fair, but the committee have labored
assiduously, and have obtained a consider-
able amount. Mrs. Caine has gone, up
and down the Territory collecting silk

[Column 2]
material, and the people have been very
generous in their response to her appeal for
contributions. She has collected dress
silk, pongee, lace, twist, reeled silk and
cocoons. Some of the dress material is
very beautiful, though made upon a hand
loom, the same that is used for weaving
rag carpet.
	No attempt will be made to obtain a prize
on manufactured goods, but it is believed
that Utah silk is of a very superior quality,
and if a prize can be obtained for our raw
material it will give a great impulse to the
industry.
	A very brief account of the silk industry
in other countries will help to show what
our Utah industry may become. The pro-
cess of rearing the silk worm, reeling the
thread and making it into cloth was dis-
covered in China 2,600 B. C.
	The knowledge of the art spread through
eastern Asia, before the Christian era. In
the year 555 A. D. two Nubian monks
brought silk worm eggs to Constantinople
and the Emperor Justinian established the
industry there. Sericulture spread rapidly
through Europe and became one of its chief
industries. In France at the present time
silk is manufactured to the value of one
hundred and twenty million francs annually
and from 800,000 to 1,000,000 operatives
are employed.
	Silk culture was introduced into America
in 1522 by Cortez. Georgia was founded
as a silk colony. John I. endeavored to
force Virginia to raise silk but they pre-
ferred to produce tobacco. Many of the
colonies made successful attempts at silk
culture, but during the revolution it was
entirely suspended. From 1825 to 1844
the interest revived and silk culture might
have become well established if it had not
been for the schemes of some jealous men.
The price of mulberry cuttings ran ’from
$3 a hundred up to $300 and even $500.
Many persons lost their entire fortunes.
	It was not long after this revival of inter-
est in sericulture that the Latter-day Saints
came to this valley. Brigham Young quickly
perceived how well adapted this climate
was to silk culture. He mentioned the fact
when fixing the site for the temple, and in
his first sermon in the valley spoke of
sericulture as one of the industries which
should make this people prosperous. He
sent to France for mulberry seed which he
had planted in his own garden, and person-
ally superintended the work. He gave
away cuttings to all who would take them.
Later on he sent to France for silk worm
eggs, distributing eggs and leaves to all
who cared to experiment with them.
About 1865 he built a cocoonery at Forest
Dale and placed a competent person in
charge. Soon after this, a systematic at-
tempt was made to introduce the industry
throughout the territory. Mrs. Zina D.
Young went from ward to ward explaining
the method of caring for the worms and
urging the importance of the industry.
	A general interest was soon awakened
and many trees were planted. When the
people were not able to build a cocoonery
they made a cocoonery of their houses for
the required six weeks in the spring,
literally turning themselves out of doors.
In 1876 the Deseret Silk association was
formed. An exhibit of beautifully reeled
silk was made at the Centennial which re-
ceived a diploma. At the Territorial fair
in 1877 there were exhibited numerous silk
fabrics—handkerchiefs, lace, stockings,

[Column 3]
artificial flower work, and dress silks of
various kinds.
	Soon after the Legislature appropriated
fifteen hundred dollars to encourage the in-
dustry. This sum was too small to equip
an adequate manufacturing plant and an
effort was made to obtain some capital by
forming the Utah Silk association. They
invested about seven thousand dollars .and
did a good business for a time. Utah county
still has a flourishing silk association and
produce some good material.
	Silk is an indispensible article of com-
merce. The demand for it is growing all
the time. If Utah could produce more of
the necessary raw material it would greatly
add to our prosperity.
	At the close of the talk there was ex-
hibited the sage green silk in the sage de-
sign by Mrs. Dallin: threads from the
material of the Utah curtain, spun silk, silk
from perforated cocoons, Utah and Japanese
cocoons and a fine piece of Utah silk which
had been in use constantly for fifteen years.”
—S. L. Herald.


A LESSON.

	If standing on a lofty pinnacle one could
look down upon this great sea of human
life, how many lessons of a different
nature one might learn, how many do we
then learn as we mix up with, and struggle
for existence in this great tumultuous sea.
	A friend once taught me a lesson which I 
hope never to forget.
	One summer afternoon I was visiting my
friend Mrs. H, and after adjourning to her
neat cosy sitting-room to enjoy a quiet time
by ourselves, as we termed it, she soon be-
came busily employed with a beautiful
piece of fancy work, while I seated myself
on a low ottoman at the opposite side of
the room, and began passing away my
time by poring over the leaves of a photo- 
graph album.
	We had been silent for some time, each
one seemingly busy with her own thoughts. 
Now and then my glance would leave the
book and fall on my friend, and a pleasing
picture she made, sitting at a open window,
dressed in sweet negligee, well becoming
such a sultry day. She was a little above
the medium height, and possessed a full
rounded form; on this particular day she
wore a loose, cream-colored house dress of
some fine material, a cluster of dark red
roses was pinned on her bosom, her jet
black hair, naturally wavy, was tastily coiled
low in the neck. She was of English
birth, indeed one might easily imagine her
a descendant of some titled family.
	After one of these lingering looks, I again
began turning over the leaves until I came
to the picture of a man I had noticed before,
and whom I had met at my friend's house
several times.
	Suddenly I broke the silence by asking,
“how is it, Mrs. H, that you who are so
entirely of a different nature, are so closely
bound to this family by the ties of friend-
ship? I am told by good authority that he
cannot even write his own name, while his
wife is a perfect oddity, and really have you
noticed how their little daughter so idolizes
you that she mimics almost every move
made by you, until it becomes amusing?"
Mrs. H. made no remark, nor even looked
up until I had finished my outburst of talk,
then with heightened color, and with such
a look of reproof that I shall never forget,

		(Continued on page 175.)


(﻿Continued from page 171.)

she replied: “As uncouth and illiterate he
may appear to you, to me he is a noble
man. Himself and wife have proven to
me many times, in my hours of adversity
and trouble, that they are possessed of
warm, true hearts and noble impulses, both
of them will always be numbered among
the foremost of my circle of friends.
You, my dear friend, have yet to learn, “that
a friend in need is a friend indeed."
	Then with much enthusiasm she por-
trayed to me many touching incidents of
faithfulness, and acts of true friendship too
sacred to make bare to the public gaze, and
as I looked upon her, her face seemed far
more beautiful as it so plainly portrayed the
noble soul within.
	The lesson sank deep into my heart, and
I more fully realized that the roughest looking
diamonds are often the best, I begged my
friend’s pardon, and after becoming more fully
acquainted with the family, became one of
their warmest friends, and felt the truth of
the words, “All that glitters is not gold."
	A few years later I was again visiting at
my friend’s house in a different part of the
country, and under much altered circum-
stances. Again I was turning over the
leaves of her album, suddenly I came to
the photo of a young and beautiful girl,
whose well poised head, and delicate fea-
tures betokened culture and refinement.
To my question, “who is she?” Mrs. H—
smilingly replied, “Why don’t you recollect
the little mimmic?”’ With much surprise I
again gazed upon the photo what a
wonderful change I mentally exclaimed,
and that interview of so long ago came
vividly to mind.
	This then was the way she had returned
their great kindness in her hour of need.
Well knowing her influence, she had used
it in every delicate way possible, so that the
little mimic had grown into a beautiful and
accomplished young lady, fit to adorn any
society.
	What a grand lesson of faith and true
friendship. To me my friend seemed more
beautiful than ever, here indeed was one of
nature's own noble women, and since then,
as I have seen her in anguish and sorrow,
joy and sunshine, as her soul shone forth
in all its grandeur, steadily avoiding all the
quick sands of life that might in any way
degrade her pure womanhood, I have felt
to thank God that we have such noble
women in our midst, those that are worthy
of emulation. The hour of midnight is upon
me. Peace be with you all.—Written for
the U. W. P. Club by	IDA HAAG.


172 				WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, -	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS, CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Term’s: one’copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by. mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
 	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 &228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
-econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,			JUNE 1, 1893.


WORLD’S CONGRESS OF WOMEN.

[Column 1]
	THE World's Congress of Representative
Women which convened in the Art Palace
in Chicago, commencing May 15, 1893, 
and continuing to May 21, inclusive, was
the most wonderful gathering of women 
that the world has ever seen. Its value 
among the nations of mankind in all 
countries, from which representation came,
and the results that will hereafter ensue 
cannot be estimated in the extent of knowl-
edge and wisdom disseminated, nor in the
spirit of love and abundant charity and
peace that were diffused throughout its
assemblies from its first session until its
last.
	A larger love and fellowship for and with
all humanity must necessarily follow such
a tremendous effort for the good of all
peoples. There is bound to be a great up-
heaving of the better and finer elements of 
society, and of higher education, through
and because of the intense and exalting 
views and sentiments that have been set 
forth and emphasized by the leaders of
thought and of principle along every line
of representation and illustrative work,
whether by force of reasoning, comparative
analysis, or by deep study and scientific
research, or by that deeper intuition that
comes as a spontaneous gift of excellence
to those who are prepared to receive.
	The experience of all those (if one may
speak in this large sense) who have attend-
ed the Congress and taken part in the pro-
ceedings, has been deeply suggestive of the
larger idea, the broader philanthropy and 
benevolence, peace and purity that is yet to
crown the world.
	Women of all lands have met on a com-
mon and universal platform, and the one
band that bound them has been peace and 
love and the inspiration of progression and 
advancement to the better and higher in the 
moral, mental and spiritual, as well as the
physical growth of the world. Serious
reflection and a deep solemnity has per-
vaded the heart of this great Congress of
women; and there is a significance
underlying this important work that should
be recognized by all thoughtful, truth-
seeking people and by all who are coming
to comprehend the vastness of the under-
taking of bringing into such beautiful
harmony women of all religions of what-
ever kind, or of no sentiment, or creed up-
on that subject, and uniting them in one 
great sisterhood, saying effectually, come
let us know each other better and love each
other more for the sake of the uplifting of

[Column 2]
those who sit in darkness, that they may
see how good a thing it is to dwell together
for a little season, for a jubilee of welcome
and of greetings to those who have come 
from afar, and to the stranger within the
gates of the nation that promises protection
and freedom to all, of whatever creed or
faith.
	Perhaps the most popular woman of the 
Congress, if we except Mrs. Palmer, was
Susan B. Anthony; everywhere she was
followed by immense crowds eager and
anxious to hear her speak, no matter what
the subject.
	Really the woman suffrage question was 
one of the most popular themes of dis-
cussion presented, and at the department
meeting of the suffrage organization the 
hall was crowded to suffocation, and a 
policeman had to be called to clear the way
for Miss Anthony, and as soon as she left
the meeting the crowd followed her in their
enthusiasm through the corridors into the 
main hall, where they gradually subsided
into a normal condition.
	The entire Woman’s Congress has been
such an unparalleled success, that it is likely 
to detract from those which immediately
follow it. For instance, the Press Congress
which commenced on Monday had much 
less enthusiasm and the numbers are
insignificant as compared with it, and this 
is the close of the second day.	The World’s Fair proper was scarcely
thought of while the Congress of Represen-
tative Women was in session, except as an
educating factor, a great object lesson, and 
its power of utility. Certainly it was the 
Columbian Exposition that made the Con-
gress of Women possible at this present
date—and also that rendered it more popu-
lar to men as well as women, but it was in 
a very great measure due to the earnestness,
activity, force and persistent determination,
fore-thought and concentrated, vigorous ex-
ecutive work of the chairman and secretary
of the Woman’s Branch of the Auxiliary
that the Congress attained to the excellence
acknowledged by all who visited it and
especially those who took part, for they 
know whereof they speak. The President,
Mrs. Palmer, and the Vice-President, Mrs. 
Hamotin, were both deeply interested in
the Congress; but in consequence of their
official positions and the duties pertaining 
thereto could not devote the time Mrs. 
Sewall and Mrs. Avery gave to the details
of the matter. The Congress has now 
passed into history and will be recorded in the 
archives of the country as one of the greatest
events of modern times. All honor to those 
who planned and executed such a Memorial
Congress for the women of the world. 
Their names will not only be emblazoned
upon the history of America, but en-
graven upon the hearts of the people of 
our own and other nations, as heroines
worthy the magnificent cause of elevating
woman and preparing the way for all wo-
men to advance like an army well equipped
to stand for a mighty cause dearer than 
life, their homes and the solidarity of hu-
man interests.
	The receptions tendered to the ladies of
the Congress during the week added much
to its pleasure, and gave the women op-
portunities of introductions and social 
converse they would not otherwise have
enjoyed.
	The West End Club issued hundreds of 
invitations for a reception on Tuesday, May
17, at the Illinois Club House, Ashland

[Column 3]
Boulevard. The house was handsomely
decorated and illuminated, a band of music
playing behind a wall of flowers and ferns,
at the farther end of the reception hall;
several rooms were crowded beside the large
main hall with beauty, gaiety, sprightli-
ness, and brilliancy, as well as fine figures
and elegant costumes. In fact the whole 
affair baffles all description; one not ac-
customed to scenes of this kind could only 
gaze silently on the beautiful picture and
admire the ease and dignity which 
characterized the ladies who took charge of 
the arrangements. Refreshments were 
served to all in a most artistic way, and
though the ladies informed us the Club 
was new, the members must have been long
accustomed to the etiquette of formal re-
ceptions. The floral decorations added
greatly to the delight of the guests.
	Wednesday afternoon was the reception 
of the Illinois Press Association, and 
Thursday the Chicago Woman's Club, 
both of them grand and enjoyable; and 
Friday Mrs. Potter Palmer gave a reception 
at the Woman’s Building. Band of music,
speeches, and violin solo by a young lady;
many distinguished women were introduced
to the audience from the platform.
	After the exercises the ladies were free to 
visit and converse, and in the adjoining 
room tea from Ceylon was served by real
Ceylonese girls in their native dress; which
was quite a picture in itself.
	There were a large number of Utah wo-
men there, among whom we noticed Mrs.
Amelia F. Young, Mrs. Carlie Y. Cannon 
and her daughter, Carroll; Mrs. Maria Y.
Dougal, Miss Mary Teasdel, Miss Josephine
Spencer, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson and her 
daughter, Rubie; Mrs. Josephine West, and 
Emily S. Richards, President of the Board
of Lady Managers for Utah; and Miss May 
Preston, the Secretary. There were also 
the delegates to the Congress, Mrs. Zina D. 
H. Young, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, Mrs. 
Elmina S. Taylor and her daughter Miss 
Mae Taylor, Mrs. Martha H. Tingey, Dr.
M. Hughes Cannon, Mrs. Zina Y. Card,
and perhaps one or two more whose names
we do not now recall. It was a charming 
afternoon and was one of those happy ex-
pressions of generous sympathy and inter-
est in the work of the Woman’s Congress
that Mrs. Palmer has been in the habit of
extending to all the public enterprises;
manifesting her delicate appreciation of the 
good work women are doing for the cause 
of human progress.
	Mrs. Palmer and Mrs. Henrotin received 
together, many hundreds being introduced 
meantime, and having the very great
pleasure of a word from this truly gracious
and queenly woman who has shown her-
self so abundantly competent to fill the 
arduous duties assigned her by the Con-
gress of the United States. Mrs. Salisbury, 
one of the Vice-Presidents, as also Lady
Commissioner for Utah, was present and 
showed us with pardonable pride the 
elegant silk curtains made in Utah of
native silk for the Woman’s building; also
the piano scarf, the broadcloth curtains, etc.
all displayed on this memorable occasion.
Mrs. Palmer, Mrs. Henrotin and Mrs. 
Salisbury are a trio of attractive, brilliant 
and fascinating women; unsurpassed in 
their attainments for the place of honor
assigned to them, and are a credit to the 
country they so ably represent.
	This article is already too long and yet it
seems nothing has been told. The
magnificence, the extreme elegance of


these entertainments, is beyond language
to convey to those who have not seen it for
themselves. At another time we will tell
our readers of the luncheon given by Mrs.
Sewall at the Richelieu, on Saturday 20th,
and of Mrs. Pa mer’s reception at her own
house on Monday 21st, which the Utah
ladies had the pleasure of attending.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ONLY A GLANCE.

	THE Columbian Exposition is certainly
the greatest event in the largest sense of
the word that has been in any age of the
world of which we have any knowledge,
so far as learning, invention and practical
utility for the higher development of the
arts and sciences are concerned.
	To attempt any adequate description of
this mammoth, this gigantic human under-
taking would require a superhuman effort
almost, at any rate a tremendous power of
physical nerve force and mental calibre.
One may go day after day in the same
building (either of the large ones) and yet
feel he has not seen the half there is to be
seen.  Writing up the World's Fair is be-
ing done on a very infinitesimal scale.  It is
like throwing a pebble into the water, and
is a most unsatisfactory work; and yet so
many attempt it, the daily papers here have
the best chance of course, and yet large as
they are, and bright as the men and women
are who are upon the editorial and repor-
torial staffs of these ponderous dailies,
even they do not pretend to write up and
keep pace with what is going on in all
departments.
	Many things are unfinished, and men and
women are constantly doing and making
improvements, and the more they plan, and
the more they do, the more complicated the
work of summing it up becomes.  Then
there is the constant current of people com-
ing and going.  Who can expect to tell of
even the noted people, who are so modest
as not to force themselves upon public notice
to be mentioned in the daily press.
	What one can say is only like a side
scene, and barely a suggestion of the great,
actual, intense fact that has begun to change
the whole tenor of life in the great City of
Chicago.  It comes over one every now and
then like a magnificent dream of splendor
and enchantment, and it is hard to believe
even in the midst of it, that it is a deep
and far-reaching reality, permeating the
entire present, and reaching out to the great
unknown, and significant future.  We
have many of us been saying that life was
full of promise, the world was opening out
into broader fields and a higher expanse of
intellectual endowment, of civilization and
enlightenment, and yet with all the pro-
phetic intuition of the inspirational soul,
none of us  ever imagined in our fondest
dreams of any thing so lofty, so intensely
educational, so mighty in its tendencies and
benefits, as this Exposition now seems to
have become.  All the sciences of all the
ages seem to have culminated in this one
period of time, and the wheels of progress
still roll onward "conquering and to
conquer."
	A goodly number of our Utah people,
bright  men and women, have been visiting
the Exposition grounds day after day; for 
our own part, we have been wholly occupied
for two weeks with congresses and the
consequent duties and obligations, social and
otherwise the congresses involved.
	Only now for the last day or two have

[Column 2]
we begun to peep in at the enormous won-
ders of this gigantic enterprise that has
drawn together people of all nations, with
their best productions in every art known to
mankind as well as the learned professions,
and the products of industries not yet ar-
rived at the perfection styled arts in modern
phraseology.
	The writer is free to confess she knows
not where to begin or what to see first;
however, making a bold dash to accomplish
some little in the way of sight-seeing, we
began with one place seemingly more in
our own line of work—viz., “The Wo-
man’s Building.” We had attended one,
two, three receptions there, one of these
the unveiling of the statue of Harriet
Beecher Stowe, with ceremonies or exercises
in the beautiful and artistically decorated
library; in fact had been chaperoned
through some parts of it by one of the
Lady Managers, and yet felt in view of its
exquisite beauty how comparatively little
we know; and so as we say in the story,
this was our starting point.  Like many
other buildings it contains many unpacked,
unopened boxes, mysteries yet to be revealed.
There is more even now than one can 
readily study or describe, and the fact seems
always uppermost how little we poor mor-
tals know of the great, wide, wide world in
its richness and abundance—how small and
insignificant we are in and of ourselves.
	As all our readers are doubtless aware, the
architect was Miss Sophia S. Hayden of
Boston (how glad I am ’twas a Boston wo-
man.)  The building is two stories high
and the rotunda is sixty-five by seventy
feet reaching through the height of the 
building and covered with a skylight.  On
the roofs of the pavilions are open areas.
One serves as a cafe and one as a tea
garden.
	At the extreme ends of the rotunda are
two immense paintings, containing many
figures, and scenes in the most delicate
colors, and the effect upon the observer is
almost entrancing; it lifts one into a region
of highly cultivated art and leaves the im-
pression of the picture engrafted upon the
imagination. In the midst of the beauty
and delight of these crowning efforts of
woman's genius, displayed in the building
and its adornments, it is difficult to define
the emotions that possess the human soul,
at least the soul of a sympathetic, sensitive
woman.  It seemed we were lifted out of
this every day, practical age in which we
are living, into a land of beauty, of lights
and shadows that blended in the most at-
tractive harmony of color and of effect, and
all around above and below were things of
beauty of the finest order.
	Mrs. Candace Wheeler, who has had
charge of the decorative work and the
blending of harmonious colors, and objects,
is herself the personification of exquisite
taste in dress and appearance, and her
sweet unaffected ways win all hearts.  One
sees at a glance how well the lady man-
agers have chosen in making the selection
they did for this important but onerous
position.  All the pictures, needlework,
lace, embroidery, and tapestry here have
been done by woman’s hands and skill,
wrought out of her ingenious brain.  The
pictures she has painted, the books she has
written, the papers she has edited and pub-
lished, the silk she has manufactured, the
spinning, weaving and knitting, with all 
and every sort of work or of invention, all
these are here a splendid testimonial of
woman’s power and force in the great liv-

[Column 3]
ing, breathing world of which she is a
necessary factor in the economy of nature.


LUNCHEON AT THE RICHELIEU.

	THE invitations were very handsome,
large cards with the seal and motto of the
National Council of Women, the United
States at the top and the names of its officers
just underneath.
	The invitations read, "The Officers of the 
National Council of Women of the United
States desire the pleasure of your company
at a luncheon, given in honor of the
Officers of the International Council of
Women, at half past one o'clock on the
afternoon of Saturday, May, 20th, 1893.
—The Richelieu."
	The envelopes also had the seal and
motto lithographed the same as the card.
It was very fine indeed, quite in keeping
with the Council itself, and the grand re-
ception to be given.
	There were four delegates from Utah
present, and we feel sure they will never
forget the splendor of the rooms, nor the
brilliancy of the entertainment.  There
were a number of distinguished foreigners
in attendance.  A description of the dresses
worn and of these ladies themselves would
be interesting to most of our readers, but
we are not good at that sort of thing, but
can tell you their faces beamed with in-
telligence which made them all appear
radiantly beautiful.  Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, President of the National Council,
was the presiding genius and leading spirit
of the occasion.  She looked like a queen
and her premier, Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery,
was near to assist and execute her behests,
and do honor to the occasion, which was
such an opportune time to manifest apprecia-
tion of the delegates who had come from
other lands.  The parlor where the guests
assembled was like a garden of lillies and
roses, and the beautiful women gathered
there were the real gems of lustre and
loveliness from the various countries
whither they had come.
	It was a scene of beauty and of elegance;
but after a few moments' conversation with
each other the announcement was made
that dinner was served in one of the rooms
above.  The guests mounted one staircase
after another until the banquet hall was
reached, bright with banners and most
fragrant with roses, and the fact is
significant that there were assembled there
the representative women of the highest
and finest civilization of the world.
	The tables were presided over by the
hostesses of the occasion, the central one
having in the chair of honor the dignified
President of the Council, May Wright
Sewall.
	The eight tables were arranged in the
form of a cross and there were something
over a hundred guests present, though the
vacant seats stated the fact that others
had been invited but were for some reason
absent.  The floral decorations were oblong
in form, piled high with American roses
(dark red in color), smilax and ferns.
	The menu on a handsome card was in 
French and the delicacies were elegantly
served.  Conversation at each table was
lively and enjoyable, at least it was where
we were seated; at the head of the table
was Isabella Charles Davis, the Recording
Secretary of the National Council, who
presided graciously and conversed with all
as freely as possible.  The writer was seated


on her right, and next was Mrs. Lydia
Coonley, a very influential woman of
Chicago, who had charge of the Musical
Concert, which closed the Woman’s Con-
gress. At this table were Mr. and Mrs.
Nordquist of Finland, and Fraulein Koethe
Shirmacher, Mrs. Pico Beck Meyer, Frau
Ann Simson.
	After the repast, which lasted a long
time, as eleven courses were served, the
music, which had been played at intervals
far enough away to make a charming
sensation, struck up in lively style, “God
Save the Queen,’’and immediately the ban-
queters rose to their feet and the women of
Great Britain felt they were honored.
Mrs. Sewall rose and in a few graceful
words of welcome congratulated the ladies
and informed them of the presence of her
husband at the banquet, which she said
afforded her unspeakable pleasure. Mrs.
Foster Avery spoke in her modest and
happy style and alluded to the sad fact
that her husband was not there, and both
ladies paid very pleasing compliments to
the foreign delegates and the husbands
who had accompanied the delegates. The
foreign delegates were asked to rise, and
the showing was very good.
	Mrs. Fenwick Miller, of the Illustrated
London News, responded to the call for
England, Madame Isabella Bogelot for
France, Margaret Sullivan as an Irish-
American, Fraulein Koethe Shermacher
for Germany, other countries represented
by foreign delegates were Greece, Finland.
Bavaria, Spain, Sweden, Denmark, Nor-
way and Bohemia. Clara Barton, the
famous Red Cross celebrity, Jennie Lozier,
President of Sorosis, Isabella Charles
Davis, Frances Boshy and Mary F. East-
man, each made brief but pertinent
speeches. Susan B. Anthony was called,
and as she rose from her seat every one
was standing, waving her a salute, she look-
ed over the sea of faces of her friends beam-
ing upon her and in her off-hand way said,
“Sit down, girls!” whereupon they all sat
down.
	After the ladies had so many of them
spoken, Mrs. Sewall called upon the
gentlemen present who had come across
the sea and continent to bring their wives
to the Congress of the world, and each one
spoke a few words of stirring sympathy
and genuine encouragement.
	As a fit closing to this memorable enter-
tainment Mrs. Sewall said she had intended
to have prepared some memento of this 
great occasion that each one could carry
away as a remembrance of the time, but in
the midst of the work found no time to
prepare a suitable gift, she therefore beg-
ged the ladies before leaving the table to
take some of the roses as a simile of
affection in the hearts of the American wo-
men for their sisters in every land, explain-
ing that this rose, the “American Beauty,”
if not so graceful in form or delicate in hue,
as were many roses, had the sweetest breath
of all those that bloom on American soil.
This characteristic gathering of noted wo-
men of the National and International
Council was a  beautiful and appropriate
occasion for cementing the friendship of
women from various countries and from
the two continents.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ONE DAY IN JUNE.

	A PERFECT morning dawned in Chicago
on the 6th of June, the day Her Royal

[Column 2]
Highness the Infanta of Spain was expected
to arrive at mid-day. At the Palmer
House there seemed to be a great stir, and
people were coming in crowds; around the
outside entrance the conversation was most
amusing—the old colored porter was inces-
santly sweeping the steps and side walk;
the colors of Spain and the flag of our
country were swaying in the breeze, and the
servants seemed prouder than ever,explain-
ing to each other this and that about Spain
and the Infanta. The elevators were
decked too for the occasion and all was
bright and gay as a fine day could be.
	The parlors that had been made ready
days before were decorated with ferns,
palms, pansies, roses and apple blossoms,
and the bright sunshine streamed in upon
the fresh paint and varnish making it seem
more fit for a princess. The three big
archways in the rotunda were hung with
the flags of both nations. The guests of
the hotel and many more who had crowded
in, congregated in the hall leading to the
apartments assigned, and were a formidable
array against the officers who attempted to
clear the passage way; forced from their
position they filled the staircases leading
above, but the cool-headed officers warned
them to vacate lest there should be an
accident, and finally succeeded in crowding
them back to the east end, leaving the way
from the elevators clear for the royal party.
Expectancy was on tiptoe and so were the
crowd inside, standing on chairs, and sofas
and in window seats, and jostling each
other, pushing and elbowing, up and down
to get a better position.
	Outside the cannons were fired, the
bands of music were playing, but those
who were in could not get out, nor even
into their rooms. There they must stay now
until the princess should come. At last the
murmur rose as it were in the air, and
whispers in the crowd—and soon handker-
chiefs were waving all around and the
royal party stepped from the elevator to
the parlor floor, and those of us who were
crowded back to the east end of the hall
saw very little, the writer saw her back,
pretty well but not a glimpse of her face
—she was dressed in some soft grey mater-
al, and wore a small bright red hat, the
ladies were exclaiming one to the other the
moment the parlor door closed, “how
gracious,” and “how sweet,” “how charm-
ing,” “how elegant,” and all sorts of pretty
compliments were paid, but she was none
the wiser, nor doubtless did she care; it
was really quite exciting however, especially
beforehand; some of the women were very
greatly incensed at having to vacate the
seats in the hall, and one could hear the
remark repeated over and over, “when
Frances Cleveland came they didn’t pay
her this honor, and she’s our queen and the
first lady in the land,” and many similar
references were made to distinguished
Americans. One English woman declared
she would not move unless she chose, and
said openly to the officer, ‘‘and supposing
we won’t move back,” he replied coolly,
“then it will be a matter of compulsion.”
She did not relent however, and declared if
he laid his hand on her she would appeal to
the British Consul, she was a guest of the
house. Isabella Bucher Hooker, the grand
old veteran woman, maintained her position
with quiet dignity in one of the easy chairs,
where she could see the whole affair; she
was not disturbed,though she had been told
to move like the rest. Afterwards some of
the ladies insisted Mr. Palmer had done right,

[Column 3]
others said it was a matter of business, and
so the opinions varied. We met Mr. Horne
in the hall just when the excitement was
dying out, had not seen him before since he
was in Utah in 1876; he chatted pleasantly
for a few minutes of the people he met
while in Salt Lake, and the places he visited
there. He looks as young as he did seven-
teen years ago, he seemed very proud of
Mrs. Palmer, and well he may be for she is
a most charming and gracious woman, and
is every inch a queen in grace and dignity,
she has won the hearts of the people by
her admirable tact, executive, management,
and loveliness of character.
	We had been loitering during the morn-
ing expecting to see our dear little niece
Edna arrive, but finding at two p. m. she
had not called, we took the train for the
World’s Fair grounds and in fifteen minutes
more we were at the station, and made our
way in with the crowd that throngs the
way day after day with every train,
Naturally we turn towards the Woman’s
Building, but today determined to see the
German village and other places in the Mid-
way Plaisance. So hurrying on we turned
in at the gate which leads towards the
German village, past Java district and half
a dozen other foreign places; crossing the
drawbridge we enter the archway of a
German castle. On one side is the museum
and at the doorway a characteristic young
German in native costume is calling out in
a deep voice what wonders are to be seen
inside for twenty-five cents. We turned
towards the dining room, fitted up in the
style of a German banqueting hall, the
black bread and strong coffee and many
other delicacies were being served to the
hungry World’s Fair visitors; after lunch-
ing there our next resort was across the
wide thoroughfare to the Panorama of the,
Bernese Alps, which we enjoyed very much
indeed; having so often heard descriptions
of the romantic scenery, we were anxious
to get an idea from the panoramic view; it
was next to being there for one could easily
imagine the reality from the effect of the
painting. The shepherds were tending
their flocks and herds of goats and cows,
and the hotel Manlichen not far off was also
very like what one would suppose it to be.
In the distance the blue waters of Lake
Thun, beyond Lake Thun lies the plains of
Antertaken; the slopes bloom with Alpine
roses and blue gentian, and one fancies
the edelweiss among the snow; the short
grass and fir trees look real, as well as the
rocks and mosses. The loquacious manager
told us that Agassiz ascended the Jungfrau
in 1841, and also Professor Desor both of
Neuchtael in Switzerland, and that it is
more than 12,000 feet high. Lest our good
friends of Switzerland should laugh at our
description we will only add that as we
gazed our fill at the snow-capped mountains
and beautiful vales below, we felt like one
in a foreign country or in dreamland, and
coming out into the open street and look-
ing at the strange faces and wonders all
around, one must be impervious to sight
and sound not to be greatly impressed, you
no sooner emerge from the doorway, than
you see Turks, Arabs, Greeks, Japanese,
and here are the ladies (men too) in Sedan
chairs,being carried about, and the wheeling
chairs trundled along by the boys in their
blue uniform. A little distance away is
another view of Switzerland, “A day in the
Alps," and the, Alpine glow worked by
electricity. Entering a dark room, half
circle like a miniature theatre, one sees just


enough to show the piano and the electric
machinery; in front the dark blue curtain,
the music begins to play, the man with the
electricity also begins his work, the curtain
rises slowly, he touches one button after
another and the scene is enchanting. It
is sunrise in the Alps—the scene changes
again and again, giving all the delightful
lights and shades and finally a tremendous
storm of thunder roaring and lightning
flashing, very realistic—then the storm
clears away, the sunshine lights up again
all the peaks of snow and they glow like
fire in the sunset; twilight comes on apace,
the stars peep out, the moon rises over the
mountain tops, and the queen of night
holds her reverie of enchantment; the cur-
tain goes down, the music ceases, and the
people go out bewildered into the glaring
sunlight of the White City.
	Our next visit was to the Venetian Glass
Works, where we saw the processes of the
glass blowers; a very beautiful sight indeed,
and after watching them for some time,
went through the wareroom to see the
display. One cannot help wishing to buy,
if only a gift for a friend, and some pieces
are only a trifle—but there are so many
beautiful things and those who have only
a scanty supply of the needful—must come
out empty-handed.
	Again we wander on past the inner gate-
way of the Plaisance, and towards the
fountains, and though we pass crowds upon
crowds of people, see not one that we ever
saw before; the artificial lake with its pretty
white swans and flashing gondolas, and
which are always attractive, we pause as we
pass to admire, and then hurry on eager to
see more before nightfall, and there is so
much to see one knows not where to turn.
However this time I turned to see the
French Marine cafe, a picturesque building
just at the water’s edge—all around on
the balconies were the tables (white linen
fluttering in the breeze,) and the music
playing, but above it rang out the German
chimes and we hastened  on towards Ger-
many.
	It is impossible to tell in one letter what
has been seen in a day or part of a day at
the Exposition; but after going to the
German building we hastened to the station
lest we should not return by the World’s
Fair train with a ten cent ticket, for at seven
o’clock these trains stop, and of course we
had seen enough for one day, and not once
the face of a friend after leaving the hotel.
	Reaching the Palmer House, weary and
hungry,we remembered the invitation to
the Central Music Hall, where Mrs. Albert
Barker was to recite, and whom we wished
very much to hear; and so after taking sup-
per and reading all about Eulalie in the
evening papers, wended our way to the
place of amusement. Central Music Hall
is a very handsome building inside, and a
good place to see and hear, we had been
there once before to a Dress Reform meet-
ing; this was more like a full and very
fashionable dress affair, diamonds were
flashing and jewels gleaming all around.
The organ music was the orchestra and it
was excellent. It was the opening night
of a series and Mr. Barr McIntosh, the
manager, was on the program for "A Few
Pointed Remarks,’’and they were certainly
pointed. He also read a letter, he stated
that had just received from the Infanta,
(which was not included in the program)
to show his standing in foreign countries
where he had visited.
	The artists were all particular good,

[Column 2]
each in the line of work he or she repre-
sented; but the dancing and singing
pleased the writer most of all. The Spanish
Dance of little Miss Gladys Theodora with
tambourine, and little Genevia, actress and
dancer,and Miss Gladys in the “Red, White
and Blue’’ dance were the most attractive.
Miss Jessie Miller, the “California Child
Cornetist,” was very wonderful. The
singers, both men and women, had fine
voices and it was really the singing we
liked best. Miss Laura Lucile Harmy,
soprano, was perhaps the best, though Miss
Belle Chamberlain has a very rich and pure
mezzo-soprano voice. Miss Jennie O’Neill
Potter after announcing that she would
give as an encore, “How Salvator Won
the Race, ” recited pathetically, "Swinging
in the Grapevine Swing,’’ and then, true
to her promise, gave the other in a truly
exciting style which elicited loud applause.
Mrs. Albert Barker, styled “The Bird
Songstress,” created quite a furore with
her extraordinary mimicry of bird notes,
which she does not produce with her lips,
the sounds being of the thorax it is a re-
markable vocalization. She gave as an
encore, ‘‘The wind and the moon,’’which is
more extraordinary still. One might
imagine the whistling roaring wind as it
comes in shrill and piercing blasts from the
canyons of the Rocky Mountains, and yet
she does it in the most natural manner,
without apparent effort. We must not for-
get Miss Helen Mar, the humorous reader
and raconteur. Mr. W. P. Mc'Henry,
baritone, has a superb voice,and. Ashfon D.
Goodrich, improvisator, played, the piano,
and’ whistled bird imitations with much
ability.‘‘Southern Melodies” by the
Virginia Students was vociferously ap-
plauded. All the music and other artists
were good but one cannot go into details,
there is no time save for generalities.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	

﻿


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A BRIGHT French woman is seeking a
nomination to the Chamber of Deputies.
Of  course her election would not take
place even were she nominated, no more 
than the election of Mrs. Lockwood to the
presidency, but not long since the women of
France scarcely dared speak on political 
matters in fear of banishment and like
a treatment to that of Madam Da Stael and
Madam Recamer, but thanks to the free
institutions of a Republican form of govern-
ment the French Woman's wit and power
is no longer confined to the salon but she 
has many public privileges which she uses
not only for the advancement of her own
self, but for the benefit of all mankind.
Thus step by step woman's sphere is
broadened and her realm will yet embrace
the universe.
	WE feel sure the people of Utah will be
pleased to know that the two pictures sent
by Miss Kate Wells, of Salt Lake City,
were accepted for the Woman's Building.
The Indian Chief colored by her, hangs in a
very conspicuous place in the gallery up-
stairs, at the right hand of the staircase, so
that when you turn to the right it is the
first in the long line of these beautiful pro-
ductions. The colored photographs of the
six girls is not yet placed but will no doubt
be where it can be seen and admired. The
book of poems, ‘‘Songs and Flowers of the
Wasatch," has reached Chicago safely and
Mrs. Margaret Blaine Salisbury, to whom


it is dedicated, will take care that it is where
it will make the best showing.
	It is certainly a very beautiful book, and
Utah may well be proud of the work, both
poetical and artistic. It is excellent in
every respect.


THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN
		PAST AND PRESENT.

	THERE has been a great deal said and
written about women of late years; how
brave and noble some have been in speak-
ing and lecturing on moral and social re-
form and political liberty for women.
	It is all very good, but I wonder why
they do not inculcate more love and rever-
ence for Deity in their speaking, and lectur-


[Column 1]
ing, certainly pure religion is a necessary
element for all to possess, particularly wo-
men who are public speakers and it is of
vital importance to them in all the walks of
life. Surely it would be wise for those wo-
men who aim to be public benefactors, to
speak about the prevention of those crimes
that are wasting away the people of this
and other nations. They might save some
from degradation by so doing.
	We often read the names and characters
of women of Bible fame; there is no doubt
but those women, in connection with their
husbands, suffered a great deal of persecu-
tion and death for their religion and it
gives one the horrors to read the history of
that time.
	It is true that some of the Mormon wo-
men of this Gospel dispensation have been
tried to the very heart’s core for their
religious belief through persecution and
prosecution. They have made and are still
making a history for themselves that will
astonish future generations. We also read
the characters of thousands of Nephite wo-
men who were brave and noble in their day.
Where can we read of more nobility of
soul in women than can be found in the
Book of Mormon, especially in the Book of
Alma, in the story of Helaman and his two
thousand sons or striplings, as he chose to
call them, who were so full of the spirit of
faith, implanted in their bosoms by their
loving and God-fearing mothers. These
mothers taught them that if they did not
doubt, God would deliver them from the
hands of their enemies. Their mothers’
teachings and prayers made them valiant
with courage for the cause, and bravely they
took up their weapons of war, and went forth
to battle in the name of Israel’s God,
conquering and subduing the enemies
of their adopted country.
	Where can there be found a more noble
example of fealty to God than the Nephite
mothers possessed. We surmise they had all
of the vicissitudes of human life to con-
tend with. Well, as mothers in Israel,
would we not do well to emulate those
Nephite mothers, teaching our noble and
ambitious sons such God-like, principles?
I know I will as far as I have the ability.
We know of the past but do not know of
the future, or what a day may bring forth;
the American motto is, “In time of peace
prepare for war.” We read considerable
about the beauty of the Nephite women, it
consisted mostly in the workmanship of
their own hands, in making and wearing
their own apparel. What a pity they did not
continue to do so. Yes, we read of mothers
of kings doing it. I do not know what
some of our royal mothers would have to
say, nowadays, about spinning and weaving
cloth for their royal sons to wear, we know
the pioneer women of Utah did it and were
glad to get the material to do it with; I
know I was and if we did not have kings
to wear it, we had prophets and sons of
prophets. What a glorious time of
religious freedom it was then when we
worshiped the Lord in home-made cloth.
I wish it was made now and worn by some
of the sisters of our Church! I think there
would be more humility of heart and less
partiality shown through the love of dress.
Do not think for a moment the writer does
not love a nice dress, for I do; but I do not
intend that the wearing of a good dress or
anything else shall run away with my
discretion in other matters, besides it is not
the wearing of fine clothes that is wrong
but the pride it is likely to produce.

[Column 2]
Vanity and pride were among, the first
things that caused the downfall of the
Nephites as a nation, by the wearing of
fine and costly apparel and all kind of
jewels and rich ornaments. They became
stiffnecked and proud in their hearts toward
the Lord their God. Let us learn a lesson
from them and cultivate the spirit of
humility one towards the other,and not look
down with contempt on those who are not
able to dress so well, for we should remem-
ber they might be the Lord’s poor and that
man looketh on the outward appearance
but the Lord looketh on the heart.
	Thinking of these things will do us good,
our love for the Gospel will be strengthened
and fortified and prepare us to pass through
trials and afflictions which the writer knows
some have an abundance of. We also
know we shall get the blessings the Lord
has promised by complying with His re-
quirements. One word, about the Salt
Lake City Temple that has just been dedi-
cated. I was privileged in going to see it
myself. It looked so grand and beautiful,
and oh! what a glorious influence I felt. It
was so peaceful and holy that I almost lost
myself in my thoughts. In thinking of
the goodness of God in permiting me to
come forth in this gospel dispensation and
to be made a recipient of such glorious bless-
ings as there are to be obtained in the
Temples.
	I could write much more but let this
suffice. Now is a day for all hearts to be
comforted, and filled with love one for
another so as to enable the Lord’s people to
stand firm in the faith whatever troublous
times may come.
	Respectfully, a Sister in the Gospel, 
				ISABELLA PRATT PRICE.
Mill Creek Ward, May 12th, 1893.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THIS year the Queen of England cele-
brated her birthday by bestowing many of
the honors she always showers at this time
upon the journalists. This proves how
great is her respect and her admiration for
all the noble service performed by the men
of the English press. She has knighted
John Tennill, the artist in Punch. It is
said that his picture of Gen. Gordon stand-
ing behind an earthwork and looking across
the desert for some sight of an English
soldier to rescue him did more than any
political speech or pamphlet to touch the
English hearts and rouse them to a sense
of duty to their deserted soldiers on the
Nile. Queen Victoria understands this,
which is why she has rewarded him.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Goshen, in the midst of her dear
family and friends, our beloved sister and co-
laborer, Louisa Gwyther Taylor, after a long and
severe sickness, March 15th, 1893. She was born
in Bristol. Somersetshire, England, Jan. 15th,
1827. Was the daughter of Thomas and Louisa
Gwyther. In 1847 she first heard the gospel as
taught by the Latter day Saints, believed, received
and obeyed the same, with full purpose of heart.
Was married to Elder George Taylor, Oct. 19th,
1853. She was a full believer in the gathering,
and emigrated to Utah in 1860, and settled in
Goshen. When the Relief Society was organ-
ized, she was chosen secretary; which office she
faithfully fulfilled for 23 years, when death re-
leased her. She was also a faithful Sabbath
School teacher, and a member of the choir. A
faithful Latter-day Saint, loving mother, a true
friend and diligent worker in the great work of
the Lord. She leaves a husband, one son, three


daughters,and sixteen grand-children,who greatly
mourn her loss.
	The Relief Society  adopted  the  following
resolutions of respect to her memory:
	Whereas—her faithful labors as a secretary in
the Relief Society, a useful member and beloved
neighbor, were  so  esteemed, we  feel to tender
our heartfelt sympathy  to the bereaved husband
and family.
	Resolved,  That a copy of these resolutions
be sent to  the EXPONENT, one to  the husband,
and  also  be placed  upon the  records  of  the
Relief Society.

Her life speaks a volume of kind words and deeds,
She has spent a long  life in supplying the needs
Of the poor and the lowly, the tried and the true,
There   was   nothing too   hard    for her    kind
		heart to do.
					MAY JOHNSON, Prest.
					MARY DODDS
		Committee.	MARTHA CHRISTENSON,
					JULIA OKELBERY,


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
	until 4 p. m.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
 ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
  AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
   POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S.
WEST TEMPLE STREET,
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY. 

	The Leading Retail
Cash House,

R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

 Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FOR[--]
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
[---] promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City

DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP, will commence
her summer class in Obstetrics and Nursing
on Monday May 1st 1893.
    Office and residence 34  East, 5th South
Telephone 383.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
