VOL. 21. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1893. No. 17. 18


CONTENTS:
	Passing thoughts—Camelia. Family relations.
S. W. Richards. Personal Reminiscences.
World’s Congress of Women. The Woman’s
Branch of the World’s Congress Auxiliary
--Rachel Foster Avery. Queen Elizabeth.
Miscellaneous. Notes and News; Expression of
Sorrow.
	EDITORIAL:—President Woodruff's Party.
Elizabeth Howard. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Blessed are they who sow—L. L.
Dalton. Woman’s Sphere—Ruby Lamont. Lines
of Comfort—Annie Rowley. Soliliquy—Emily
H. Woodmansee.


BLESSED ARE THEY WHO SOW.

Blessed are they who sow good seed,
	Beside all waters fair,
And send abroad the gentle feet
	Of oxen and asses ther;
Who cause the rugged hills to smile
	With fields of waving grain,
And clothe with verdure, mile on mile,
	The parched and panting plain.
Blessed are they who set the roots
	Of shade-trees cool and wide,
And prune and nurture pleasant fruits,
	That man may be satisfied;
Who train the vine that climbs so high,
	And the vine that creeps so low,
And lead, their tender rootlets nigh,
	Refreshing waters' flow.
Blessed are they who dig and hew
	Foundation stone and beam,
And build fair homes for spouses true,
	Where hearth-fires warmly gleam;
Who blessings ask on plow and seed,
	On ox and furrowed plain,
And call on One to give the meed
	Of sunshine and of rain.
Blessed are ye who thus have done,
	O Saints of Latter Days,
Who from the earth you bread have won,
	And given your Lord the praise;
Who troops of sons and daughters rear,
	From lust and blood-guilt free!
God will love souls so clean and pure,
	To all eternity.
	L. L. DALTON.


Written for the Exponent.
WOMAN’S SPHERE.

A SATIRE.

Yes brother, she’s a woman; see thou to it .
That she keep faithfully along the track,
The beaten track of ages; be it narrow,
What doth it matter if it is beaten hard,
And clean and dustless—If she move an inch,
This way or that, then might she serve thee less;
For see, she might look upward to the stars,
And wonder at the greatness of the sky,
Perchance to shrink beneath the load of care,
That makes her field so narrow, wand’ring thus
She might grow dusty with a higher sense,
And thy wants be forgot! Instead of chords,


Of harmony, what harroweth now thine ears,
A harsh, discordant clamor! A shrill cry,
That soon the gates may open to the plan
And let the cushioned prisoner wander free,
To change her fashioned her nature for the wild,
Aggressive temper of the wilderness!
Ah, poor, misguided woman! Keep her true!
True to the same old path that all the days,
Her sisters have beat hard and wet with tears,
Lest eyes as grand as thine be dimm’d with dust,
Or crushing whips I scorn might bruise her white
   ness;
True to the mark! Let not her skirts flaunt
   round,
And pass the bounds of social creeds and customs;
Let not her curious mind unveil the tomes,
To read the secrets of God’s universe;
For He who made them craveth not that she,
Should love or comprehend them to His glory,
Her sweet soft eyes, formed but for love or tears,
Must never sparkle to triumphant truth,
Nor have they any need of widened vision,
Keep down the windows lest the sun-light’s gold,
The verdant landscape or the gleaming stream,
The soft blue dome above, the flashing worlds
Allure her soul to happy, upward flight,
And she forget her duty, past the mark,
The dust would stain her spirit; she might think,
Without thine aid or guidance; e’en to Heaven
She would aspire without thy stronger hand,
Trusting, the jade! To Christ, to lead her on
Safely and soft through labyrinths of time,
Nay, this must never be! Thy part to rule
Would be forever slighted; love would die,
A long forgotten art; sweet childhood’s smiles
Orphaned of mother love, would soon grow old;
An artist mother would forget the babe
That nestled, trusting, on her cold, hard breast!
Then keep her in the good old trusted track
In which the faithful women of all time
Have walked so true before her, why should
   change,
Come o’er her spirit? All have gifts alike—
All woman’s gifts; and if she dare to stray
Or long for other fields or wider skies,
Then whip her back with stinging, cruel words.
	RUBY LAMONT.


[Column 1]
PASSING THOUGHTS.
	IT has been a very long, tedious winter
and one grows tired even of the cheery fire
and the long evenings when the storm
blows out side and we gather round the
hearth, and eat pop-corn and molasses
candy and tell stories and sing songs, for
winter has trespassed so far on to the would
be spring time that, in truth, the pop-corn
is gone, the molasses jug is empty and the
stock of stories and songs are well nigh ex-
hausted and we long for the spring and the
return of the birds, that new songs may be
sung, new stories learned, new crops raised
to replenish the stores for another winter.
	So it is, one always seeks and longs for
change. Are we never satisfied? The
wealthy seek more wealth, the wise more
wisdom and it is better so. How dull the
world would be, if all were content to sit
right down and take life as it is, without
trying to change. There then would be no
advancement. no improvement but a never

[Column 2]
ceasing sameness; and it makes one shud-
der to think of such monotony. It is this
desire for constant change that broadens the
mind, creates ideas, strengthens the body
and develops the soul.
	I wonder if any of us realize how much
happiness there is in this world after all, we
read so much about sorrow and poverty
and the great institutions erected for the
benefit of the suffering, that one almost
feels that it is indeed a "sorrowing world"
and yet even in the humblest corners, and
poorest quarters there is happiness. It is
not half such a bad world after all. It is
the spirit of the world's inhabitants that
make it good or bad. I know a woman
who is very wealthy and lives in a grand
home with every luxury, who longs at
times, with tears in her eyes and a trembling
heart for a dear little home she knew in
child-hood, where the wind blew through
the cracks and the frugal supper of bread
and milk prepared by the little mother
would be far sweeter now, than the elegant
course dinner prepared by her trained ser-
vants, many of us are the same, we dream of
those humble little homes of our child-
hood and think them almost heaven if
those homes of the past were so happy for
us, why do we presume that the humble
homes of today are not happy, for those
who own them, if the spirit desires hap-
piness it can find it in the humblest home as
well as in the grandest. It is not the set-
ting of the gem that renders it brilliant, it
is the gem that adorns the setting. The
marguerite is as white and beautiful in its
native fields as in the conservatories of the
palace. Improvement and advancement
are gained more readily by a happy spirit
and changes for the better come to those
who wait and work not to those who wait
and idle.
	Work, that's the word and that's what
brings true happiness, if among the poor
there is so much sorrow, is it not because
they have no employment? True charity
is to give employment and let each one
earn his reward, then there is no dependence
and the independent sonl is certainly the
happiest.
	It is not the idle man who becomes great.
When I was a child I used to think that
geniuses never worked, now I know they
are the hardest workers. I thought that
Burns could write his poems without an
effort and never needed to study or work
to gain the praise of the world, but after-
wards learned he had a pretty hard time
to gain that praise, and after his hard daily
toil spent many hours studying how to stamp
his genius on the world.
	I believed that writers could sit down and
write novels without any trouble at all
imagine my surprise when I read that Lew
Wallace was seven years writing "Ben
Hur" and yet the work is worth those
seven years labor and the author's genius
shines through every page. God bestows
gifts upon us but leaves us to employ those
gifts ourselves. No matter how much
native genius a man may have, it is his
work in bringing it forth that makes him


[Column 1]﻿ 
great. An idle genius makes the man no
better than no genius at all.

	The readers of the EXPONENT we know
are mostly mothers and wives, who have
so many cares connected with those loved
offices that little time is allowed them for
reading, and what a sweet rest it is some-
times when the baby is being nursed to
sleep, to pick up the paper and read some
bright notes about what other women are
doing or perhaps read in the meantime
something about the home decoration, the
table setting—the nursery, the kitchen, the
laundry, and thus many little items may be
learned in a few moments to lighten the
labor and brighten the home. A young
woman once said to me, "I spent so many
dollars and a number of long afternoons
attending a cooking school and after all the
things I learned never amounted to much I
find my own kitchen the best cooking
school in the world," and of course the
remark was true just as she might spend as
many dollars taking music lessons, and
then find her piano the best professor after
all. It is the practice that makes perfect,
and in order to cook meats, make light bread
delicious desserts one must have practice
and a great deal of it. The cooking school
must be considered only as the preceptor,
but do you know my dear readers that these
schools are now quite a fad among fashion-
able women and in the large cities east, the
beautiful parlors of the most wealthy wo-
men are used as lecture rooms, where a most
proficient house keeper tells her lady friendt
how to concoct dainty and savory dishes
for their tables: now surely time is not
wasted, on these afternoons, not if the
listeners go home and prepare these dishes
themselves, in fact is it not rather a profit-
able way of being sociable with one's friends
a pleasant afternoon together and something
learned besides?
	The other day I saw some very handsome
portieres now you know when the idea of
hanging curtains over the door way first
came out I was so charmed, but goodness
who could afford them certainly only the
rich for they were always of such heavy
and expensive material that the doorways
of most homes, where the income was only
moderate had to go uncurtained but these
pretty portieres, solved the problem; they
were not at all expensive made only of blue
demin so prettily decorated with a scroll
pattern of white braid. They hung over
the door entering the dining room from the
parlor and a table-cover of the same
material and pattern made the room look
quite stylish and pretty. Of course house
plants always adorn a dining room and a few
cut flowers on the table, or a blooming plant
with the pot neatly covered with white
paper wonderfully enhances the appearance
of the table.
	Among the recipes given for flavoring
we so often are told to use the English bay
leaves and in this country they are hard to
obtain, but have you ever tried the peach
leaf: it resembles the bay leaf very much
and yields delicious flavor but should be
used only moderately. The bay leaves are
the leaves of the cherry laurel a small ever-
green grown on the shores of the Mediter-
ranean and can only be obtained at the
grocers in large cities where many varieties
of imported delicacies are kept, so of course
in most country places are not obtainable.
	The Utah women are doing a wonderful
mount of beautiful work for the World's

[Column 2]
Fair and how nice it would be if an exhibit
could be made at Conference time that the
visitors from the different counties might
see what their neighbors have been doing,
but this will be impossible as before the
coming conference, the articles must be
shipped to Chicago but the EXPONENT will
endeavor to write a description of these
beautiful things that its readers may know
what Utah women are doing for the
World's Fair. CAMELIA.


138 WOMANS EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	FAMILY RELATIONS.

	[S. W. RICHARDS.]
	FAMILY relations! What of them:
Much every way. In them are embodied
all hopes worth cherishing:—all joys worth
contemplating:—all loves that are enduring;
and all labors that shall determine and
secure the desired reward of everlasting
lives, and the exaltations to which those
lives are lawful heirs.
	It is in these relations the soul of man
finds its powers of development. Its loves,
its sympathies, its tenderest emotions, pas-
sion subdued and the natural man putting
on the divinity of the Gods; all are found
deeply rooted and flourishing in their
growth, where family ties bind soul to soul
and two are one.
	The maiden of tender years looks for-
ward to the anticipated time when the joys
of wedded life shall be hers. The manly
youth who would honor the laws of his be-
ing, seeks most reverently the aid of his
appointed "help meet" in the relation named;
and with their loves as firmly joined as
their hands and hearts, they enter upon a
new life—a life of heaven’s ordaining.
	This relation ordained of God for man,
is of necessity as eternal as the being by
whom it was ordained and appointed unto
him; and eternal honors, obligations, and
responsibilities, are necessarily attached to
and grow out of it.
	True father hood and mother hood may
be secured in this relation, by which man
puts on the character of God, his father;
even Him who is the father of us all: and
may in time like one of old who was in the
image of God think it not robbery to be equal
with God: and why not? From this re-
lation springs the increase that grows into
kingdoms; and those kingdoms in the pro-
gress of their development will demand
thrones, principalities and powers;—the
same position and powers as are now ascrib-
ed to our heavenly Father, and by virtue
of which He is God.
	In tracing the inevitable results of this
relation, they lead us not only to divinity
but to infinitude, to the eternal, the never
ending and must have worlds on worlds to
meet the demands of eternal increase.
	These considerations growing out of the
family relation afford unmistakable evidence
that man’s mission to earth is of no vain
import. In it is involved all that is manly,
angelic and Godly and demands the first,
highest and holiest, endeavors of those who
engage therein. The motives, and every
incentive on the part of the actors, must
be strictly in conformity with the law of
God. These eternal consequences can
only result from an eternal covenant of
union, for time and for all eternity; and
that covenant sealed by an everlasting
priesthood which is without beginning of
days or end of years; an authority that is
not affected by the limits of time but like
God, is from everlasting to everlasting, or
in other words—was before time and will

[Column 2]
be after time shall have ceased, and must
ever continue in the midst of an endless
increase.
	Any young man who would attempt to
build his house and home upon any other
foundation, would not be worthy of the love,
hand and heart, of one of the fair daughters
of God.
	Here in this relation are found all the en-
dearments lingering in those heavenly
words of Mother, Home and Heaven, in
which are found all that is Sacred lova-
ble or can be desired by any soul to which
the spirit of God giveth understanding.
	The youth of Zion who will give heed to
these important truths, need never be
found in the condition those were to whom
the Apostle Paul was speaking, when he
told them the time was short when they
who had wives should be as though they
had none; and as our fathers and mothers
have been who passed from earth before the
Priesthood came to them, and they were
taught the eternity of God’s ways. Their
covenants of marriage were only for time;
and when either party had passed its portals
the covenant and all its consequences came
to an end. No possible hope of its renewal
lingered with them by which the powers
and blessings of a reunion should be theirs
in and after the resurrection. There were
no eternal considerations attached to their
covenant. It was only made to have force
’till death should separate and death has
gloried in its power of divorce, rending a-
sunder those ties designed to be like Him
who ordained them—eternal and everlasting;
and what is more terrible, if anything can
be more so, is the fact that the increase
under such a covenant, the children of
such a union are like the parents, without
any claim of relationship beyond the bounds
of time: they remain singly and alone and
are as the angels, ministering for others who
have secured their kingdoms, and are rulers
in the midst of Deities.
	“That kingdoms and thrones to God belong,
	Is truth re-echoed in our song,
	All those below with those above,
	Shall join the chorus ‘God is Love.’
	All knees must bow and tongues confess,
	To Christ the son of righteousness.”
	For the kingdoms of this world shall be-
come those of our Lord and Christ. Man,
in his development and increase, has pro-
duced many of them and will continue so
to do until they become innumerable to
man.
	Our father Abraham was assured that
his seed should be more in number than
the sands of the sea shore, or even the dust
of the earth; and many should be made
kings and priests to reign over them.
	In all these grand developments of in-
crease the man is not without the woman.
There is no creative power in the one with-
out the other. Neither can ever be like
God without the other. The history of the
race and the promises of God are alike to
all, and the destiny of the one is that of the
other.
	Now let the daughters of Zion who are
the daughters of God, give heed to their
ways that they be not found allied to any
one only by virtue of an everlasting cove-
nant, confirmed and sealed by an everlast-
ing priesthood; lest their lives be in vain,
their love become hate and their hopes
perish as all things must that are only of the
earth; and with the earth must pass away.
While in this life, by virtue of covenant
and ordinance, secure the right to inherit
all desired blessings in the life to come.


WOMAN’S' EXPONENT.


LINES OF COMFORT.

	Presented by the Primaries of American Fork
Ward to Sister Sarah Eggertsen Cluff of the
Utah Stake Presidency of Primaries, on the oc-
casion of the death of her beloved son Alfred E.
Cluff aged fourteen years, who died at his home
in Provo, Dec. 25th, 1892.
WE love you kind sister, and join here to send
		you
	A few lines to comfort your grief stricken heart.
And pray that the spirit of peace may attend you,
	For we know it is hard with a loved one to
		part.
When Christmas to others its good cheer was
	bringing,
	It filled us, dear sister with sorrow and woe
To know in your ears the sad death knell was
	ringing,
While the hot, scalding tears from your dim eyesdid
	flow.
But bright is your hope in the happy reflection,
	That the boy you’re bereft of so faithful and
	true,
Will rise with the just in the first resurrection,
	As a star in the crown of your husband and
	you.
How sweet is the thought, when our lov’d ones
	are taken,
	To know that they traveled the straight nar
	row way,
With a fervor of purpose that could not be
	shaken,
By the wiles of temptation that lead us astray.
Your son has been summoned to fill some high
	station,
	Of honor with heroes we love and extol,
To preach to the spirits the plan of Salvation,
	That the Gospel of peace may be offered to all.
We mourn with you sister and share in your
	weeping,
	But still we can feel that repining is vain,
Your Alfred is well and in heaven’s safe keeping,
	No more to be subject to trouble and pain.
We honor you sister as one who is gifted,
	Of God, and by nature to lead and to guide,
How oft has the veil from our blind eyes been
		lifted,
	As the spirit would lead you our errors to chide.
Take comfort then sister in this your affliction,
	The sad blow of death that so suddenly came,
Will be found when you look in the proper
	direction,
To weave sweet, fresh laurels to honor your name
	ANNE ROWLEY.
	In behalf of the Primary Association of Ameri-
can Fork of Utah Stake.


PERSONAL REMINISCENCES.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	DEAR Old Friend:—My Exponent had
not come for some time, and I had began to 
feel hungry for, and wonder why it had
not reached me.  When yesterday I heard
a dump on the doorstep and there was a
parcel of four numbers truly a feast of fat
things.  As I read the beautiful inspiration.
"The Christmas of the Pioneers," by our
gifted Sister, Augusta Joyce Crocheron, my
mind went back to the spring of 47, when
I, a young girl of seventeen, had just ar-
rived at Winter Quarters from my home in
England.  Notwithstanding the dire pov-
erty, and much sickness which prevailed,
most of the people were preparing to follow
in the wake of the Pioneers who had just
started on their journey.  My husband,
with others was busy mending wagons,
looking up yoke-bows, making bow-keys,
or pins to hold the bows in the yokes, hunt-
ing up the cattle, mating them, finding
chains, especially lock-chains, for, bear in

[Column 2]
mind there were no "breaks" to hold wag-
ons back going down steep hills in those
days.
	These and a hundred other things occu-
pied their time.  While we were busy
making and mending wagon covers,
making crackers, and in every way aiding
and assisting to prepare for the long and
toilsome journey.  At last we started and
got as far as the Elk Horn River, where we
camped about a month, waiting for the rest
to arrive, so as to organize into companies
of hundreds, fifties and tens.
	The brethren made a large and substan-
tial raft, on which to ferry us across, for the
river was swift and deep, and every wagon
and person had to cross in that way.  The
cattle were made to swim over.  I forgot to
say that our family being numerous and
help scarce, two of we women rather thought
we could manage with the oversight of my
husband to drive our own team, which
consisted of a yoke of cattle, for, though
just coming from a large city, and not
being used to this kind of a life—never
having seen cattle yoked together; still I
thought, well- what any other woman can
do, I can, so, shouldering my whip, I
drove out of Winter Quarters, and soon
learned to manage my team first class.
	I learned to put on the lock-chain instant-
ly at the top of a steep hill, and would
jump out quickly while the cattle were
going, to take it off, so that the impetus
afforded by the end of the descent would aid
them in starting up the other side, for we
often passed through deep gullies  On one
occasion I was jumping out while the
cattle were going, and my skirt caught on
the tongue bolt, and threw me down, and
before I could extricate myself the nigh
front wheel passed over my leg just above
the ankle.  I scrambled into the wagon the
best way I could, I turned down my stock-
ing expecting to see a bad bruise for it was
very painful, but lo! and behold there was
no bruise there.  I was much astonished
but very thankful.  The pain soon passed
away and I drove my team as usual.  I
must relate another remarkable incident
that happened.  While toiling through the
quick-sand of the Blackhills—the
“reaches” had been shortened, teams
doubled, and, while they were toiling slowly
up the hills all but the driver pushing be-
hind, one of our dear little ones, a boy
fifteen months old, being asleep was left in
the wagon.  It being a hot day, the sides
of the cover had been tied up.  The child
on awaking, finding himself alone, looked
out at the side and fell right between the
wheels, the hind one passing over his limbs
before he could be rescued.  His father
picked him up—I durst not look up for I
expected to see his tender limbs severed
from his body, but strange to say—owing
to the soft sand, and the great mercy of
God, all the hurt was a red mark made by
the iron tire across his limbs.  His father
administered to him, and in a little while he
was holding the whip apparently as well as
ever.  The first part of the journey I
enjoyed much, being young, and having
good health, I did not mind the driving and
the labor incidental to such a journey, cook-
ing, washing and etc.  At night, when
we drove into camp the wagons formed in
the shape of a horseshoe, the first two with
the front ends pretty close together, the next
drove close enough for the tongue to lie out
side of the wheels of the first one, and so
on until the fifty were in place.  The en-
closure forming a corral for the cattle

[Column 3]
through the night.  Each driver unyoked
his cattle (I frequently unyoked mine) then
those whose turn it was, herded them till
dark.  The rest of the men would father
material for fires, often nothing but dried
grass or Buffalo chips as they were called.
	As we neared our destination, our jour-
ney became wearisome and full of toil.
Grass became scarce, cattle began to give
out, often, when an ox gave out, a cow
was put in its place.  The roads were
rough, wagons had to be pitched up, till
sometimes you would wonder how they
could go at all.  One of my calamities was
my lock-chain giving out, and in going
down a hill I had to hold the nigh ox by the
horn and tap the off one over the face and
keep saying, "Whoa, Back; Whoa, Back,"
and nearly hold my breath till I got down
to the bottom, then stop, draw a breath of
relief, see that all was right, then on again,
for others were right on our heels and we
had to get out of their way, (you can just
imagine what a condition our skirts were 
in.)  I never shall forget the last day we
traveled, and arrived in the Valley.  It
happened to be my turn to drive that day
Sept. 28th.  The reach of our wagon was
broken and tied together after a fashion,
and the way the front wheels wabbled about
was a sight to behold.  I kept expecting
every minute to see the poor old concern
draw apart and come to grief, but it held
together and when my eyes rested on the
beautiful entrancing sight—the Valley;
Oh! how my heart swelled within me, I
could have laughed and cried, such a co-
mingling of emotions I cannot describe.
My soul was filled with thankfulness to
God for bringing us to a place of rest and
safety—a home.  No doubt our valley looks
astonishingly beautiful to the strangers who
come here now, but it cannot evoke the
same emotions as it did to us, poor weary
tired, worn out, ragged travelers.  When I
drove into camp, unyoked my cattle, and
sat down on the wagon tongue, and began
to realize that, in the morning I would not
have to hitch up and toil through another
day, such a feeling of rest—blessed rest
permeated my whole being that is impos-
sible to describe, and cannot be realized
except by those who have passed through
similar scenes.
	After a day or two my husband with
others began to explore Emigration and
other canyons, made a road to the timber
and in a very short time a log room was up,,
a rough fireplace was built, what few chairs
we had brought with us, our trunks and
boxes were brought in, and a few rough
seats were improvised, enough for us to
assemble around the fire with a semblance
of a roof over our heads (we did not wait
for it to be finished) that was an evening
never to be forgotten.  The first one of the
kind in more than three months.
	We spent the evening in singing
prayer and praise to that kind Being who
had brought and guided us to this haven of
peace and safety.  Soon more rooms were
added, and made as comfortable as possible,
we slept in our wagons far into the winter,
after our breath would be frozen and our
pillows.  But those of us who were well
did not mind it very much, we were con-
tented and happy.  I accompanied my hus-
band into the canyons, cooking and making 
things as comfortable as I could, for him
and the men with him.  I well remember
the first night I slept on the ground with
the star bedecked firmament over head.
To be continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE D. WELLS, - - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
rom 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.
 
SALT LAKE CITY, - - March 15th, 1893.


PRESIDENT WOODRUFF’S PARTY.

THE evening of the first of March was a
red letter day in the family of President
Woodruff on account of the celebration of
his eighty-sixth anniversary.
	The party was made up of a few of his
old-time companions and fellow laborers in
the Gospel, some with whom he had travel-
ed many thousands of miles on land and
sea; probably there is no man living in the
Church who had traversed as wide an ex-
tent of country and in as many lands to
carry the Gospel of salvation, as President
Woodruff has, and for this and many other
reasons he is very greatly reverenced by
this people, as well as for the position he
holds as President of the Church. Among
the assembled guests were President Larenzo
Snow of Brigham City, Apostle Franklin
D. Richards and wife, Apostle Moses
Thatcher of Logan and wife, Apostle F.
M. Lyman, of Tooele, and wife, Apostle
John Henry Smith and wife, Apostle
Abraham H. Cannon and wife, President
A. O. Smoot of Provo and wife, President
J.T. D. McAllister of St. George, President
Angus M. Cannon and daughter:
	Presiding Bishop W. B. Preston and wife
Bishop Robert T. Burton and wife, Bishop
John R. Winder, Elder Joseph Horne and
wife, Mesdames S. J. Cannon, Zina D. H.
Young, B. W. Smith, E. B. Wells, Carlie
Y. Cannon, P. P. Jennings, M. M. Barratt
and quite a number of relatives whose
names are not mentioned here. The day
was also the anniversary of the birth of
Sister Emma Woodruff, who shared with
her husband the honors of this happy
celebration.
	The house was tastefully fitted up for the
occasion, flowers in profusion, lovely as a
dream, the gifts of dear and valued friends,
the tables were handsomely decorated with
the graceful smilax and flowers, and at each
plate a card,bearing the name of the person
with an original motto and the signature of the
President himself all in his own hand writ-
ing, which made a pretty souvenir of the
occasion. The dinner was sumptuous and
the sociability of the old-time friends was
most enjoyable.
	During the evening some impressive
speeches were made by the brethren Pres-
dent Lorenzo Snow taking the lead, his
tribute to the President was tender and
eloquent. President Joseph F. Smith in his
characteristic earnest and lofty style al-
luded to President Woodruff's position, his
remarkable life, his sterling integrity and
unbounded zeal and implicit faith, and dwelt

[Column 2]
upon his noble example and the great hold
he had upon the hearts of the Latter-day
Saints. President Snow gave in his remarks
some incidents of their missionary experi-
ences quite touching that had been recalled by
the inscription upon the card presented to
him. Apostle Moses Thatcher also paid a
glowing tribute of appreciation and love to
the reverend host and all seemed to vie with
each other in expressions of love and esteem.
	The President responded in his usual af-
fectionate and gentle manner and gave some
reminiscences of the past that were very
interesting. He also gave in his child-like
but prophetic way some vivid glimpses of
the future that can never be forgotten by
those present.
	It was a most characteristic gathering of
some of the tried and faithful ones, under
particularly pleasant circumstances, and one
could scarcely help contrasting such an occa-
sion with the troublous time of adversity
and hardship of the past, and acknowledg-
ing the hand of the Lord in blessing Israel
with prosperity.
	President Woodruff may his days be
multiplied and his blessings increase more
and more as the years roll on and his soul
be satisfied in the love of the people.


ELIZABETH HOWARD.

	MRS. ELIZABETH HOWARD who depart-
ed this life on March 12th, of this year was
one of the most prominent women in the
Church and one of the most useful; her loss
will be deeply felt by all those engaged in
public duties and especially engaged in the
organizations of women. Mrs. Howard's
death occurred at the residence of Mrs.
Mary Ann Hunter of Grantsville, Tooele
County where she had gone to attend the
Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society,
the Y. L. M. I. A., and the Primary
Associations of that Stake of Zion. She
had enjoyed this last mission very much in
indeed and so expressed herself over and
over again to the sisters, shaking hands with
the sisters and bidding them farewell in the
most affectionate manner and saying, "her
work was done and she was going home,”
meaning she was coming home to Salt Lake
and certainly could not have had any other
thought, although her words seem to have
been significant. 
	In personality and in manner Mrs. How-
ard was one of the most charming and
agreeable women we have ever met. As a 
friend and companion in all places and at
all times, she was always the same pleasant
obliging true and loving sister in her labors
and work, whether in prosperity, or adver-
sity, in journeyings and times of trial and
hardship for the Saints. Her friends will never
forget her cordial warm hearedness and
buoyancy of spirit that was like a ray of
sunshine wherever she went. In times of
sickness she would go and administer com-
fort and consolation,and such sympathy and
help as it is possible to give when one has
the most intense desire to alleviate suffering
and sorrow. We can never erase from
memory her last visit to this office, the day
before she left the City upon her last mis-
sion to the sisters.
	Elizabeth Howard's maiden name was
Anderson, her parents were Robert and
Lucretia Anderson, and she was born at
Carlow, Carlow county, Ireland, July 12,
1823. Mrs. Howard's father was a reform-
er, a man of means and influence in his
country, and suggested several govern-

[Column 2]
mental and social innovations that were
afterwards adopted by the government and
the people. Her parents were Presbyteri-
ans, and she was brought up strictly in that
faith. She was married to Wm. Howard,
the eldest son of Scott and Catharine How-
ard, June 9. 1841, In 1851 she heard of 
the Gospel and embraced it and came to
America in 1853 with her husband and
family, arriving in Utah in September of
the same year, residing the first few years
in the thirteenth ward in this city. 
When the Relief Society was organized 
in Big Cottonwood she was chosen secre-
tary, which office she filled until she ac-
companied her husband on a mission to
England in 1868. During her sojourn in
Great Britain she was frequently called up-
on to speak upon the principles of the Gos-
pel and subjects of that nature. Divines
and men of learning found her quite equal
to answer them on every point, and her
part of the mission had often been spoken
of as very creditable and important, for it
was at a time when women had scarcely
been heard to speak publicly on our faith
except at home. 
When President Brigham Young about
twenty-four or twenty-five years ago called
upon the women of Zion to go out as
missionaries among the women in the
several Stakes of Zion, Mrs. Howard was
one of the first to act in this capacity, and
from that time she has been diligent in
season and out of season in all kinds of
weather, no matter how hard the journey
or how rough the roads, she always went
with the same cheerful, good spirit and
seemed particularly blest in the labors that
fell to her to perform.
	In 1871 Mrs. Howard was chosen
counselor to Mrs. M. Isabella Horne in the
General Retrenchment Association, in place
of Mrs. M. A. Smoot, who had moved to
Provo; soon after she was elected president
of the Relief Society of Big Cottonwood
ward, but resigned a few years ago on ac-
count of other duties. When the Relief
Society of Salt Lake stake was organized
Mrs. Howard was appointed secretary,
which position she held at the time of her
demise.
	When the Deseret Hospital was establish-
ed in May 1882, Mrs. Howard was appoint-
ed Chairman of the Visiting Committee and
was very efficient in that work. At the 
time of the reorganization of the Board of
Directors April 1884, Mrs. Howard was
elected Assistant Secretary and Treasurer,
of the Deseret Hospital which office she oc-
cupied at the time of her decrease.
Mrs. Howard was for one year, from
October, 1891, to October 1892, president
of the Woman's Suffrage association of
Salt Lake county. She has traveled very 
extensively in the interest of woman's
work from the time this sort of missionary
work commenced, and was a very sincere
and earnest laborer in all these important
directions. She was an impressive and
entertaining speaker, had an excellent
voice and was never at a loss for words,and
wherever she went she was heartily
welcomed and infused an element of cheer-
fulness by her buoyant spirits and whole-
souled manner.
	The Howard home at Big Cottonwood
has been for years a gathering place for old
and young on all sorts of festive occasions,
Mrs. Howard being a charming and genial
hostess, young people and old people shared
equally in her hospitality, in fact she was a
universal favorite.


Mrs. Howard was the mother of ten
children, eight of whom survive her, five
sons and three daughters, over seventy
grandchildren and two or three great grand-
children she also leaves two sisters to
mourn her loss, which will be severely felt
by them, as she was a most affectionate
and devoted mother, sister, friend and
counselor. Mrs. Howard was a woman
of magnificent presence, brilliant, witty,
winning and attractive, she will be greatly
missed among the visiting sisters, for she
was always on hand to perform the duties
assigned to her, undertaking the most
arduous journeys in all kinds of weather.
Blessed be her memory forevermore!
	The funeral of Mrs. Howard was held in
the Assembly Hall in this City, the hall
was beautifully draped in white, the casket
was white, and everything bespoke purity,
emblematic of the life upon which her
spirit had entered.
	On the stand were a number of ladies
her associates and friends, Mesdames Z. D.
H. Young, M. I. Horne, B. W. Smith, J.
S. Richards, E. B. Wells.  President
Angus M. Cannon presided, Presidents J.
F. Smith, F. D. Richards, J. T. D McAllister
J. E. Taylor and C. W. Penrose, Bishop O.
F. Whitney, Bishop Halliday, of American
Fork, also Bishop D. B. Brinton of Big
Cottonwood Ward where Mrs. Howard
had resided for many years were upon the
stand.  The mourners were seated directly
in front and near the casket which contain-
ed the mortal remains of the one so dearly
beloved by them all.
	The exercises opened with the hymn,
	"O my Father thou that dwellest,"
by the Tabernacle Choir, prayer by Presi-
dent Mc'Allister singing again, the old
hymn from Pope's ode entitled "The Dying
Christian,"
	"Vital spark of heavenly flame,
	Quite, Oh! quit this mortal frame,"
After the music ceased President Joseph F.
Smith delivered an appropriate discourse,
dwelling upon the glorious hopes of the
Resurrection which the Gospel opens to the
minds of the Latter day Saints, and paying
a glowing tribute to the virtues of the
deceased in whose honor the people had
assembled.
	The other speakers were Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne President of the Relief Society of
Salt Lake Stake of which organization Mrs.
Howard was Secretary, Mrs. Z. D. H.
Young General President of the Relief
Society throughout the Church and her
Counselors Bathsheba W. Smith and Jane S.
Richards who each spoke in terms of ap-
preciation and of love and praise of the
dear one just taken away in the midst of
her labors. Bishop Brinton made a few ex-
cellent remarks also Bishop Halliday who
had been an intimate friend in a brotherly
sense and who was much affected in parting
from her, his words found voice in every
heart and his meed of praise was very ten-
der and emotional.
	President Angus M. Cannon made the
closing address in which he congratulated
Sister Howard and those to whom she was
connected, and exhorted her children to
emulate her noble example and never
swerve from the path which she had trod,
gave good advice and spoke eloquently of
her virtues and lovely attributes of charact-
er. The hymn,
	"Unveil they bosom faithful tomb."
was sung to the, "Dead march in Saul"
benediction was pronounced by Apostle F.
D. Richards.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The day was very unfavorable but many
carriages followed the hearse to the
cemetery.
	The pall bearers were her sons and son-in
-law and one grandson. The floral tributes
were very beautiful, one lovely pillow of
white lilies with the word "Rest" in violets,
was given by the Relief Society as a loving
memento, and another equally lovely by
the Woman Suffrage Association. There
were many other offerings of flowers, one
handsome bouquet of Calla Lilies one of the
most exquisite roses and a sheaf of wheat
with other very handsome pieces. Sister
Howard's name will ever be held in fond
remembrance and in reverence by those
associated with her in various labors in the
Church, and though we know she has pas-
sed from death unto life, yet we miss her
presence here, the congenial, intelligent
companionship, the ever joyous counte-
nance, the cordial warmth of greeting the
sweetness of her disposition, and the many
innumerable good qualities that shone so
brightly to gladden the lives of others; but
she has gone and we must be satisfied to
bow in humble submission, and acknowledge
His hand who doeth all things well.


SOLILIQUY.

[On beholding the remains of our beloved and
widely esteemed friend the late Elizabeth
Howard.]
MY lov'd congenial friend and art thou dead?
	And shall we hear thy cheery voice no more,
Has thy endearing Spirit home-ward sped;
Or has thy last "Good-bye" indeed been said,
	Can the companionship of years be o'er?
So long thy staunch affection's strengthen'd me
How could my heart, do less than cling to thee?
Oh! do mine eyes hehold thee stretch'd and low,
	Who lately was so full of vigorous life, 
And buoyancy, that had to overflow,
And sympathies that set our hearts aglow,
	And kindly wit, and sterling virtues rife?
Where is the winning smile, the gladsome grace
The cordial soul, that beautified thy face?
My friend I call thee, yet in truth I ought-
	To know thou wert the friend of many more;
With such compassion was thy bosom fraught-
So many joys and griefs to thee were brought-
	Thy generous nature—was an open door;
Within thine ample heart, was always space—
For numerous friends, to have a resting place.
Nor can we sense, how much we’ll miss thee yet;
	This sudden stroke, we scarcely comprehend,
And fain we would awhile our loss forget—
In deference to thine orphan’d ones regret—
	Who mourn, their mother, counselor,
	 and friend!
Oh! that we could some healing balm impart—
To strengthen or to soothe, each sadden’d heart.
Methinks if I could hear thy kindly voice,
	That to thy children thou would’st bid me say
“Let not your hearts be troubled,” but r ejoice,
Death sent a messenger,so swift and choice,
	And painlessly your mother passd away:
And instantly on her enraptur’d sight—
Hurst the supernal regions of delight.
A happy change, (my friend) it was for thee,
	Yea, blest are all who over death prevail.
But ’tis the nature of humanity—
To mourn the absent lov’d ones specially,
	And long to lift the intervening veil,
That most effectually conceals from view
Departed ones, the loving and the true.
Patience becomes us all who yet remain,
	Who still must bear life’s burdens day by day,
Who needs must struggle, seemingly in vain


And often brook unmerited disdain.
	Striving withal to walk the narrow way
Hoping through much endurance to be free,
And o’er the grave to gain the victory.
Well might we envy all who’ve “fought the fight.
	And kept the faith” and laid their bodies down
Who’ve pass’d the pearly gates and earn’d the
	right—
To be arrayed in regal robes of white
	And wear triumphantly the lustrous crown, 
And swell the hallelujahs of the blest
Whose works do follow them to realms of rest
But very soon, yea, in a little while,
	The span allotted us will be complete, 
Oh! fit us Lord, by each uplifting trial—
To enter in where nothing can defile
	To courts eternal, ‘Where the old friends meet”
And where forever freed from death’s embrace,
Congenial souls commingle face to face.
EMILY H. WOODMANSEE


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE near approach of Conference and
the dedication of the Temple in this city is
bringing an influx of visitors from the
several Stakes of Zion, and some from other
parts of the country as well, and the greet-
ings of old friends and acquaintances is
beginning to be quite noticable already on
the streets. Business places seem to be
putting on a sort of gala appearance and no
doubt a more perceptible change will come
later on,
	THE work for the World’s Fair is in part
coming to a close; some shipments of goods
have been made and others are nearly
ready. The women engaged in this matter
of exhibits have been diligent in season
and out of season in encouraging and urg-
ing those who were making articles to be as
expeditious as possible in finishing off, so
that Utah may not be behind, in making a
showing equal to its capacity in this regard.
There are some fine articles of fancy work
etc, and in industrial art some excellent
work has been done, and in the way of
woman’s work in charities and organizations,
no Territory of its size and numbers can
make a better or more thorough showing.
Time will prove whether the women of
Utah excel in any of the arts or professions.
The silk portieres for the Woman’s Build-
ing will assuredly be a very great credit to
the women of the Territory.
	THE representation of women from this
Territory at the Woman’s Congress is likely
to be quite large considering the remoteness
of the locality. The National Wom-
an’s Relief Society and the Young Ladies'
National M. I. A, will each hold a meeting
on the 19th of May in one of the Depart-
ment Halls assigned to them in the Art
Building outside the Fair grounds. Of the
Congress proper considerable has been pub-
lished but of the part our organizations are
to take, or who are going down to attend
the Woman’s Congress very little has yet
been said. We feel safe however in antici-
pating a strong phalanx of bright intelli-
gent and able representatives.
	THE sisters ought not to forget how
essential it is for them to sustain the Expo-
nent. The need of it has been widely felt
during the last year while we have been
looking up on all matters pertaining to
woman’s work and mission, and the writer
has been strongly reminded of the words of
President Brigham Young, “tell the sisters
to take the Exponent and preserve it, for it


will be a record of their history” and so it is
in a great degree. All officers of the Relief
Society and all the members of the Society
who can, should take it and read it and
keep it by them for reference, and if one is
not able to do so alone two or three can put
the means together, but there are very few
certainly who cannot afford one dollar per
year, to help maintain an organ devoted es-
pecially to the elevation of woman kind and
humanity everywhere.
	WE learned with deep regret of the death
of Miss Mary E. Seymour, which occurred
the last week in March, after a four days
illness from pneumouia. For the last five
years Miss Seymour has been the editor and
publisher of the Business Woman's Jour-
nal which was lately merged into the
American Woman's Journal, published by
a stock company. Miss Seymour was a
member of the American Society of Authors
and of the Woman’s Press Club.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WORLD'S CONGRESS OF WOMEN.
Under the Auspices of the Woman's
	Branch of the World's Congress Aux-
	liary, Chicago, May 15-22, 1893.

	THE world’s great advance towarde a
higher wisdom than that which estimates
value merely by material gain, is interest-
ingly exemplified in the mere fact that
superb provision is made for the presentation
of the intellectual and moral progress of
mankind, side by side with its material
improvement at the approaching Columbian
Exposition.
	Over 100 Congresses for the discussion of
the vital subjects affecting human welfare
are to be held in conjunction with the Ex-
position, the first beginning May 15th, and
continuing one week, the others to follow
in successive weeks until the close of the
Fair in October. In order to make these
Congresses most easily accessible to the gen-
eral public, the managers of this depart-
ment of the Columbian Exposition have
wisely arranged that they shall be held, not
within the Fair grounds, but near the center
of the city, in the beautiful new Art Palace
erected for this purpose on the lake front,
close to the principal hotels. Into this new
temple of learning every one that thirsteth
for knowledge of the best thought of our
day on the problems of the period may,
without money and without price, enter
freely, and hear these questions discussed
by able speakers.
	The opening Congress, May 15 to 22,will
probably attract the largest convocation of
women to be found in Chicago during any
one week of the Fair. For at this time is
to be held the Memorial Congress devoted
to the unique purpose of setting forth the
intellectual, moral and material progress of
the women of the world from the discovery
of America in 1492, down to the present
time. To this special Congress have been
invited women of eminence from every
portion of the civilized world, many of
whom have already signified their intention
to be present and participate. Here will be
gathered together, from the four quarters of
the globe those most noted for their interest
in Education, Industry, Art and Literature,
Philanthropy and Charity, Moral and Social
Reform, Religion, Science and Philosophy.
Civil Law and Government. In two halls
of the Art Palace (with seating capacity of
2,500 each) programs of equal interest will

[Column 2]
be carried on simultaneously, dealing with
the above subjects in a popular manner,
while, in fifteen other halls of the building,
specialists will find provision for the dis-
cussion of their favorite topics in greater
detail.
	The closing day of this Congress, Sunday
May 21, will witness that which is, possibly,
the most striking proof of the wonderful
change in woman’s position manifested
within the last half century—her entrance
into the pulpit as ordained preacher, and
into the field of music as composer. Sun-
day morning the religious services will be
conducted by a body of regularly ordained
women ministers from all denominations
which recognize women in this capacity, the
sermon to be delivered by the Rev. Anna
Howard Shaw, of the Methodist Protestant
Church, one of the most eloquent speakers
in the United States. In the evening a
sacred concert, with music composed, ren-
dered and conducted by women, will close
the exercises of the day and week.
	Verily, may every woman’s heart swell
with joyful anticipations, as she considers
this signal proof that at last even a portion
of the ruling sex is ready to say to her,
“Well done good and faithful servant; thou
hast been faithful over a few things, I will
make thee ruler over many;’’ for while
woman’s exclusion from the pulpit con-
tinued every message she uttered in the in-
terests of morality suffered a depreciation
in popular esteem similar to that of coin
deliberately debased by the Government.
Woman in the pulpit at this Chicago Con-
gress is an omen of the new day of univer-
sal justice, when mankind shall at last agree
that ability, and not sex, shall decide what
is proper to be done by each human being
and not for women alone, but for the whole
race will that new day be glorious, for it
shall mark the opening of the epoch of the
hghest human development.
	THE unique feature of the coming.
World’s Fair, that which chiefly dis-
tinguishes it from all its predecessors, is the
arrangement for a series of Congresses in
which the moral and intellectual side of the
world’s progress may be set forth in con-
junction with the exposition of its material
advance.
	Near the centre of the city, conveniently
close to the principal hotels, a beautiful
building has been erected by the co-opera-
tion of the Directory of the World’s Fair,
the City of Chicago, and the Chicago Art
Institute, for the express purpose of pro-
viding suitable quarters for these Congress-
es, but which is also planned to remain as a
permanent, memorial Art Palace for the
city. This building, with an entrance on
Michigan Avenue and Adams Street, com-
prises two large halls, each with seating
capacity of twenty five hundred, and twenty
smaller halls, seating from two hundred to
seven hundred each, which together furnish
perfect appointments for the conduct of the
various Congresses and Conferences to be
convened between May 15th, and Novem-
ber 1st.
	While in each of these more than one
hundred Congresses (devoted to the dis-
cussion of Education, Industry, Art and
Literature, Philanthropy and Charity, Mor-
al and Social Reform, Religion, Science and
Philosophy, Civil Law and Government)
women will participate according to the
degree in which they have taken part in the
interest or activity indicated by the title of
the Congress, one special Congress has been

[Column 3]
arranged, to be called the World’s Congress
of Representative women, in which these
great subjects will be viewed from a differ-
ent standpoint, its object being to discuss 
not the subject in itself, but the relation of
the women of the world to the subject.
	With this object in view, invitations have
been sent to every national association of
women in the United States, Canada,
England, Ireland, Scotland, France, Ger-
many, Belgium, Norway, Sweden, Den-
mark, and Finland, and to individual wo-
men of eminence in Italy, Greece, Spain,
Poland, Russia, China, Japan, South
America, New Zealand, Austria, Holland,
Turkey, Iceland, Mexico, Switzerland, and
India to send representatives to this special
Congress.
	Two kinds of programs have been plan-
ned, one presenting the topics to be con-
sidered in a method calculated to interest
general audiences, the other arranged with
reference to specialists who wish to con-
sider the same topics with greater detail
than would be possible for large miscellane-
ous gatherings. The intention is to make
this (which is the first of the series, opening
May 15th, and continuing one week) a
Memorial Congress, and to have its papers
and addresses chronicle what the Congress
itself will celebrate, namely, the progress
of woman since the discovery of this conti-
nent in 1492. Each country represented
in the Congress is expected to send reports
showing woman’s advance in that country
along the various lines above mentioned,
setting forth her present educational oppor-
tunities, and the agencies through which
these opportunities have been, received, also
the objects now sought in each country by
its leaders.
	Eight rooms in the Art Palace will be set
aside for the use of the eight General De-
partments into which the work of the Con-
gress is divided (one room being assigned-
to each department,) and in these rooms
will be conducted a constant series of,
special conferences of an informal
character, which will enable women en-
gaged in the same work to become acquaint-
ed with one another, and also with the
various methods by which the work is pro-
secuted in different parts of the world.
	In the other seven halls meetings of the
various associations represented in the
Advisory Council of the Congress will be
held, each association to have one day for ,
its own special use, arranging its own pro- ‘
gram, providing its own speakers, and with
its own officers presiding. Those who
have already completed their preparations
and requested the use of a hall are as fol-
lows: The Woman’s National Indian As-
sociation, Association of Collegiate Alumnae,
American Society of Authors, Woman’s
Baptist Home Mission Society, General
Federation of Women’s Clubs, National
Woman’s Christian Temperance Union,
Woman’s Republican Association of the
United States, National Council of Women,
Woman’s Western Unitarian Conference,
Columbian Housekeepers’ Association,
National American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation, Woman’s Foreign Missionary
Society of the Reformed Church in the
United States, International Council of
Women, Non-Partisan National Women’s
Christian Temperance Union, Young
Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Association
Wimodaughsis, International Kindergarten
Union, Woman’s National Relief Corps,
Daughters of the American Revolution,
Order of thh Eastern Star, Loyal Women


[Column 1]
of American Liberty, National Alliance of
Unitarian and other Liberal Christian Wo-
men, International Young Women’s Chris-
tian Women, International Young Wo-
men’s Christian Association, National Wo-
man’s Relief Society, National Christian
League for the Promotion of Social Purity,
Woman’s National Alliance.
	One hall will be used each day of the
week for the especial purpose of hearing
and discussing reports of organizations.
	Nine meetings may thus be in progress
simultaneously, two in main hall and seven
in the department halls, giving a wide
variety of choice to the thousands who will
assemble in Chicago during this most in-
teresting week.
	Monday will be devoted principally to
the opening of the Congress, the addresses
of welcome, introduction of foreign dele-
gates and their responses in behalf of their
respective countries. Tuesday morning ad-
dresses in the large halls will be on the
Civil and Social Evolution of Woman and
the Administrative Ability of Woman, in
the evening on Woman the New Factor in
Economies, the Industrial Position of
Woman in Germany, and the Industrial
Position of Woman in France; Wednesday,
the Ethics of Dress, Woman on the Stage,
the New Womanhood of Italy, our debt to
Zurich and to Brussells, and Woman in the
Pulpit; Thursday, Woman as a Financier,
Woman in Municipal Government, the Po-
litical Future of Woman, the Solidarity of
Human Interests; Friday, Woman’s War
for Peace, Woman as a Social Leader, the
Professions and Trades underlying the
Home, Woman in Science, Woman’s place
in the Republic of Letters; Saturday, both
sessions will be devoted to the presentation
of the work of women in organizations,
considered in respect to Religion, Philan-
thropy, Education, Moral Reform, and
Political Liberty, with a general discussion
of the economy of woman’s forces through
organization. Sunday morning there will
be a religious service entirely conducted by
women ordained as ministers, representing
every denomination which has admitted
women to the ministry, and the Congress
will close Sunday night with a sacred con-
cert with music composed, rendered, and
conducted by women, and a closing ad-
dress on the influence of Columbian Ex-
position in woman’s development.
	Amongst the noted foreigners who will
attend this Congress are Madame Isabelle
Bogelot of France, Treasurer of the Inter-
national Council of Women; Miss Kirstine
Frederiksen of Copenhagen, Recording
Secretary of the International Counsil of
Women and President of Dansk Kvindesam-
fund; Lady Henry Somerset, the Countess
of Aberdeen, Mrs. Alice Cliff Scatcherd,
Mrs. Cobdenvenwin, Lady Harberton, Mrs.
Earnest Hart, Mrs. Florence Fenwick
Miller, and Mrs. Ormiston Chant, of Eng-
land; Miss Meri Toppelius and Mrs. Ebba
Nordqvist, representing the two national
associations of Finland; Dr. Marie Popelin,
of Brussells; Madame Fanny Zampini
Salazar, of Italy; Miss Hulda Lundin,
Principal of the Sloyd, of Stockholm; Miss
Augusta Fenger, representing Dansk
Kvindesamfund, Mrs. Nico Beck Meyer,
representing de Samlede Kvindeforeningen,
and Mrs. Olesen, representing the
Kvindelig Fremskridts Forening, of Den-
mark; Dr. Ella Mensch, of Darmstadt,
representing a Frauenverein, Fraulein
Augusta Forster, of Kassel, and Frau Hed-
wig Heyl, of Berlin; Miss Helen McKerlie,
[Column 2]
of Ireland; Mrs. Edith J. Archibald, Dr.
Emily Howard Stowe, Mrs. Elizabeth M.
Tilley, Mrs. Judge Foster, Mrs. Mary
McDonnell, Mrs. Dr. E. A. Blakely, Mrs.
May L. Gibbs, Dr. Augusta Stowe Gullen,
Miss Madge Robertson, of Canada.
	From our own country will gather a dis-
tinguished host representing every phase of
woman’s thought and work: Mrs. Potter
Palmer, Mrs. Chas. Henrotin, Julia Ward
Howe, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Helen
Gardener, Annie Jenness Miller, Susan B.
Anthony, Frances E. Willard, Augusta
Cooper Bristol, Amelia S. Quinton, Mrs. J.
N. Crouse Charlotte Emerson Brown,
Lorraine J. Pitkin, Charlotte Perkins
Stetson, Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, Alice
Freeman Palmer, M. Louise Thomas,
Ursula Gestefeld, Sarah B. Cooper,
Margaret Ray Wickins, Hattie A. Robinson,
Clara Barton, Mrs. W. D. Cabell, Lucy
Stone, Mary A. Livermore, Frances E. W.
Harper, Dr. Mary Putman Jacobi,Emmeline
B. Wells, Mrs. John Wilkinson, Lillie
Devereux Blake, Elizabeth B. Grannis.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿	QUEEN ELIZABETH.

	QUEEN ELIZABETH was the daughter of
Henry VIII. and his second wife Anne
Boleyn: and was born Sept. 7th, 1533; her
family name was Tudor her mother was a
very beautiful woman with whom her
father fell in love while she was lady in
waiting to the queen, his wife, whom he
divorced in order to marry his new love.
Her reign, however, was of short duration.
When Elizabeth was scarcely three years
of age, her father, in a fit of jealousy,
ordered her beheaded. At the time of
Elizabeth’s birth Henry was very much in
love with her mother but was, of course,
disappointed that she was not a boy, but as
all the realm looked upon her as heir to the
throne he decided to give her a grand
Christening accordingly she was wrapped in
royal robes of purple and ermine with a very
long train which was borne by Lords and
Ladies, who deemed this a very great
privilege. In the splendid procession
which attended her to church, were four
Lords who walked two on either side hold-
ing over her a magnificent canopy. The
ceremony was performed by Cranmer the
Archbishop of Canterbury, On her return
she was followed by four additional persons
of rank bearing costly and beautiful presents
by her several Godfathers and Godmothers.
Nor was this all her father had an act of
parliament passed, solemnly recognizing and
confirming her claim as heir to the crown
and the title of Princess of Wales was
formally confer upon her when these things
were done in order to further his political
schemes, he offered her to the King of
France as a wife for one of his sons, which
offer was rejected. After the death of her
mother little Elizabeth had a residence
assigned her at a place called Hunsdon and
was put under the charge of a governess
named Lady Bryan who, in a letter to one
of the Lords, stated that his little charge
was lacking in raiment and those things
which her position demanded. When
Elizabeth was fourteen years old her father
died leaving two heirs between her and the
throne. A young brother, son of a third
wife, who died at the age of sixteen and an
elder sister, daughter of Catherine the first
wife, who died at the age of sixteen and an
elder sisterm daughter of Catherine the first
wife a great council of sixteen persons of
the highest rank governed in Edward’s

[Column 2]
name until his death when Mary ascended
the throne being at that time about thirty-
five years old, she is described as a cold
austere maiden lady forbidding in her ap-
pearance and manners, and a very decided
Catholic. She had not been queen but a
very short time before she had Lady Jane
Grey, her husband and father and some-
others beheaded. Lady Jane was a very
lovable woman the very personification of
beauty genius, piety and virtue she had very
much against her own mind, by the advice
of her relatives and friends, set up a claim
to the throne and reigned ten days, after
which time she very gladly relinquished to
Mary. For this she lost her life in her
seventeenth year. Elizabeth had taken
sides with her sister in the contest and was
very properly permitted to share her
triumph, so far as taking part in the honors
and festivities usual on such occassions.
	No sooner had Mary entered upon her
duties as queen than she had many suitors
for her hand in marriage among them was
Philip a Prince of Spain and a great grand-
son of Ferdinand and Isabella. Mary was
very much pleased with this offer as his
prospects were very brilliant, he was also
very much younger than herself, being
about twenty-seven years of age, at this time
the people of England were generally of the
Protestant faith and consequently quite un-
easy about Mary’s contemplated marriage,
as Philip was a very stern and severe man
as well as a very ardent Catholic. This
with the knowledge that she had very
quietly but efficiently been forming measures
to bring back her government and nation
to the Catholic faith did not tend to their
peace of mind after they had worked so
faithfully to place her on the throne.
Mary’s ministers advised her to be a very
careful and circumspect and suspend opera-
tions, against the Protestant Church for a
time which she did, but the alarm had gone
forth and the House of Commons appointed
a committee of twenty members and sent
them with a humble petition to the queen
that she would not marry a foreigner; it
was of no avail however, she was very
much displeased and dissolved Parliament.
Philip’s father hearing of the obstacles in
the way borrowed money to the amount
of two million dollars which his son was to
return, as soon as he got posession of Eng-
land, and sent to buy up influential men
of the realm to favor the marriage; he also
sent a very magnificent embassy to Lon-
don which with the large bribe seemed to
silence the opposition. After a great many
stipulations guarding the rights of Mary
and England to satisfy the English people
the wedding was allowed to take place.
Mary seems to have been very nervous and
unhappy for fear Philip should be disap-
pointed in her beauty and would fail to love
her; in fact she complained that he had not
written to her and been as attentive as she
thought he ought to be, to a prospective
bride that was bringing him a kingdom for
a dowry, but woman like she thought her
troubles would be all over when she once
got him all for herself. When that was
accomplished she was happy for a short
time only. Philip left her and went back
to Spain in a year after, and did not return
but once and that was to compel her to join
with him in a war against France. This
war proved very disastrous for England.
The town of Calaison the French side of the
channel a very great stronghold had been in
the posession of the English for two hun-
dred years and they were very proud of it.


This was lost and they were very indignant
about it and murmured at their queen
whom they said was very energetic in im-
prisoning and burning her own subjects,
but could not cope with their enemies
abroad.
	Mary sank beneath this blow she said she
should die, and if after death they should
examine her body they would find Calais
like a load upon her heart. She died on
the 17th, of November 1558, to the un-
speakable relief of the greater portion of
her subjects she had reigned a little more
than five years and during that time had
scantioned the most cruel and fiendish
deeds of murder; the acts which had
abolished the Papal supremacy were repealed;
this was an indication to the Protestants
that there were dark days ahead. It is said
not to mention those who perished in dun-
geons and those who expatriated them-
selves no less than three hundred, of whom
one hundred were women and children,
were burned alive at the stake; the first
martyrs in this persecution were two emi-
nent Divines of the Reformed Church, Hoop-
er Bishop of Gloucster and Rogers a Clergy-
man of Essex, Archbishop Cramner Ridley,
Bishop of London, Latimer, Bishop of
Worcester soon followed after. Many of
the Catholic prelates were exercised in
their behalf, and even Philip himself was
moved to pity at such deeds of infamy.
She left no heirs, indeed I do not think she
deserved any but she earned for herself an
unenviable fame, and the dreadful name of
Bloody Mary.
	In the meantime Elizabeth had suffered
no little annoyance at the hands of her sister;
although they tried to keep up the appear-
ance of friendship they were natural
enemies it could not be otherwise owing to
the circumstances attending their mother's
marriages wherin it could not be decided
which was the legal wife, and they could
not remain friends any great length of time,
besides Mary was jealous of Elizabeth, she
was afraid the malcontents would urge her
claims to the crown, and she felt that she
must improvise some way of getting her
into her power, she therefore wrote her a
letter stating that she was not safe and had
better come to her for protection; but
Elizabeth did not want to go and moreover
she was sick and her attendants sent a
certificate to the effect that she was not
able to travel.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	EVERY cup that holds self-sacrifice in it
is a holy grail.—Dr. Lyman Abbott.
	THERE are a thousand hacking at the
branches of evil to one who is striking at
the root.— Thoreau.
	THE measure of our sincerity, and there-
fore of the respect of men, is the amount
of health and wealth we will hazard in de-
fence of our rights.—Emerson.
	A WOMAN may vote as a stockholder up-
on a railroad from one end of the country
to the other. But if she sells her stock and
buys a house with the money, she has no
voice in the laying out of the road before
her door, which her house is taxed to keep
and pay for.—George William Curtis.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	LADY BROOKE has a Shakespearian
garden at Warwick Castle, for which she is


by degrees gathering every flower and shrub
named by the bard. The Prince of Wales,
it is said, planted the first specimen.
	MISS ANNE WHITNEY has completed a
fine portrait bust of Miss Frances E. Wil-
lard. 
	MISS ELEANOR E. ARCHER is rate col-
lector at Bradford, england. She is said
to be the first woman to hold that office.
	MRS. VICTORIA G. WHITNEY has been
admitted to practice in the St. Louis (Mo.)
Court of Appeals. She is said to be the
first woman to gain entrance to this court,
though Miss Phoebe Couzins was admitted
to practice in the Circuit Court of St. Louis
many years ago.
	ELIZABETH A. REED, author of "Hin-
du Literature," has lately completed a new
work, "Persian Literature, Ancient and
Modern." Mrs. Reed has just been elected
to the "International Congress of Oriental-
ists," and is the only American woman in
the full membership of the Philosophical
Society of Great Britain. Her forthcoming
work traces the growth and development of
the literature of Persia from its orgin in
Babylonia about 4,000 years ago.-Ex.
	THE CITY COUNCIL of Toronto has just
voted 14 to 8 to petition the Ontario Leg-
islature for the extension to married women
of the municipal suffrage which single wo-
men and widows have had for years in
Canada.
	SANTA FE, New Mexico, has a woman
on the Board of School Examiners. She
is a teacher of recognized ability.
	IN the Fine Arts exhibit at the World's
Fair will appear three pictures from Wind-
sor Castle, loaned by Queen Victoria, and
several from the Prince of Wales' collec-
tion.


EXPRESSION OF SORROW.

(To the Editor of the Woman's Exponent.)
GRANTSVILLE MARCH 1893.

	DEAR SISTER:—You can have no idea of
the deep feeling of sorrow that the death of
Sister Howard has caused here. We had a
most excellent Conference, I never was at a
better, it was so humble yet so full of the
spirit of God. Sisters Howard and Ed-
dington as you know were here, they
seemed so full of the spirit of teaching and
the Sisters so willing to be taught that it
was truly “A feast of fat things.” There
were two Relief Society meetings one
Teachers meeting, two Young Ladies
meetings and the Primary, and all well
attended.
	Sister Howard in one of the meetings
referred to the quickness with which the
cholera took its victims, and a wish that she
might die suddenly, she little thought she
would not leave Grantsville alive, but have
to be taken in a casket. To have looked at
her we who have seen her often here, she
looked so handsome and in better health
then ever before, and more full of the
spirit of God. Remember I who write this,
knowingly never flatter either the living or
the dead, but write this in all soberness
and truth. As you know she was taken
with the paralytic stroke that ended her life
at the residence of President M. A.
Huuter, only a few minutes before the
attack she was laughing and joking with
Sisters Hunter and Eddington, Sister


Hunter saw her fall and thought she had
fainted, but alas! she was struck by death,
this was between 9 and 10 o’clock on Satur-
day morning the eleventh; they had been
talking and arranging for their return to
S. L. City. Every thing was done that
could be done, but all in vain, Sisters
Anderson and Louisa Hale feel sure that
some of the time between her being taken
and her death, she was conscious for they
asked her to press their hands in answer to
thei r questions, and she did so. She did
not open her eyes or speak after she fell and
died about two o’clock on Sunday morning
the twelfth. She will rest in peace for her
work is done. Her son and grandaughter
arrived at 8 p.m. Saturday and were with
her from that time until she was taken
away, truly followed by very, very sorrow-
ful feelings by both brethren and sisters,
	M.A. House Secretary.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
,	Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
			until 4 p. m.

	Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
		    Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
	      AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
		 POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
	No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET,
  			  Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

		MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and [---]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Order[---]
[illegible line]
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City

	DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP, will commence
her summer class in Obstitrics and Nursing
on Monday May 1st 1893.
	Office and residence 34 East, 5th South
Telephone 383.


F. D Richards
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.145

