VOL. 21.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1893.					No. 22.


CONTENTS:

	The Pilgrims. Silk Culture in Utah—Susan A.
Stringham. The Flower Garden—Flora. Pass-
ing Thoughts—Camelia. Women as Physicians
—Pharma rete. To My Dear Friend, Camilla C.
Cobb—Lydia D. Alder. Sandwich Islands Relief
Society—Mrs.Nellie Grace. King James of Eng-
land. Notes and News. Obituaries.

	EDITORIAL:—Spring Hints. Editorial Notes.

	POETRY:—A Memory of Spanish Fork Canyon
—Laura St Vrain. Little Marjorie—James Whit-
comb Riley. My Kate—Elizabeth Barrett
Browning.


A MEMORY OF SPANISH FORK CANYON.

	THE same old cedars crown the steep,
		Where evening splendors flame in gold;
	But the sad winds that never sleep,
		Sigh of some bygone grief untold,
	And all the restless waters weep:
		"A long farewell! O days of old!”

	Yet on a soft midsummer night,
		When larger burns the evening star,
	Set in a sky of ruby light
		Glooming to amythist afar;
	The mountains glow from height to height,
		And dreamland’s portals swing ajar.

	I hear the mountain torrent roar
		Through castled rocks and tangled vines,
	And watch the eagle rise and soar
		And wheel above the stately pines,
	Then downward sail to rise no more,
		Where the wild passion flower twines.

	Again my heart beats high as when
		The old enchantment ruled supreme:
	I roam the fragrant, dusky glen
		Where maples arch above the stream,
	Wooed by a southern wind, and then
		I wake, and find it all a dream.
						LAURA ST. VRAIN.


THE PILGRIMS.

	Our Pilgrim Fathers: Where could
there be found a theme more inspiring?
	The very name calls up feelings of
veneration and loyalty in the breast of
every true American. Their history is
full of interest, and abounds in deeds of
heroism, while the annals of their suffering
bring tears of pity to the eyes of anyone
endowed with sympathy for the distress of
their fellow creatures. To understand
thoroughly the causes that led to their
separating themselves from the parent
church, and abandoning their mother coun-
try, and the differences in their belief, we
must take a hurried review of some subjects
that have already been treated upon here.
The reformation in the 16th century gave
rise to many varieties of opinions, and an
astonishing change was wrought by the
preaching and labors of such men as Luther,
Calvin and others. But when all the cir-
cumstances and influences of that time are
considered, it is not surprising that good
men, honest and conscientious, held
opinions not altogether accordant on many
religious topics, and adopted practices and
views of the meaning of the Holy Scrip-
tures which produced dissension and diffi-
culty in the very earliest days of Protest-
antism. The Church of England is Pro-
testant as sympathizing with the protest
made in Germany, and Catholic as claim-
ing to be a portion of the universal apos-
tolic church of Christ. In the 16th century
its vassalage to Rome was broken off, and
since then the Roman church has main-
tained a hostile attitude towards it. The
Church of England has always had a
national character. Henry VIII., as every
student of history knows, was not much in-
fluenced by love of truth and purity in
what he did towards setting England free
from papal tyranny and superstition. He
had his own ends to serve, and looked
out for that in every step which he took.
If he did no good to Protestantism, if he
were a tyrant and a beastly tyrant too, he
certainly crushed under his heel the insolent
pretensions of the pope to rule over and
draw revenue from England, and in so
far at least, was an instrument in the hands
of God for beginning the good work in
England. During his reign the punish-
ment of death was decreed against all who
refused to acknowledge the doctrine of
transubstantiation. Edward VI. died
young, and unhappily before much could
be done for reformation. Mary succeeded
him, and very soon gave the English people
a bitter draught of that cup which Rome
has always made her victims quaff when
she has had them entirely under her con-
trol. It is said that more people were ex-
ecuted during her reign than in all the
reigns before or since. Elizabeth came to
the throne with a large share of her father’s
imperiousness, and with energy and ability
probably unsurpassed by any monarch that
has ever, as yet, guided the destines of
England. She was fond of show and dis-
play in religious things, and was determined
that the established church should have

[Column 2]
all the advantage and dignity which these
could afford. She was conscientiously op-
posed to popery, and equally indisposed to
the bold, stern simplicity of the Puritanical
worship. She had no liking for those who
opposed her views, and held a tight hand,
during all her reign, over the heads of those
who pleaded further reformation and larger
liberty than the Church of England had
ever been willing to allow.
	Under James and Charles we still find
the same difference of opinion, and the
several opposing sects that had parted off
from the parent church in opposite direc-
tions, each contending for what they con-
sideredtheir rights. The Puritans had no
more notion of toleration than any other
party; its object, like that of every other
party of those times, was not the mere
toleration, but the exclusive establishment
of its own system. But every change,
every debate, helped to bring about religious
toleration in the end, and as the Puritan
movement was largely a movement against
arbitrary authority, it was necessarily a
movement in favor of freedom. The Puri-
tans planted themselves upon the open,
naked Bible, as the only safe chart and
guide in religious and civil duties and
obligations, and scouted at all tradition,
without exception, as certainly the rem-
nants of popery and superstition. The
Church of England adherents, while, they
freely and fully declared that the Holy
Scripture contains all things necessary to
salvation, yet claimed that deference was
due to the testimony and practice of the
primitive church, and were willing to
yield respect to what they deemed primi-
tive tradition and the unanimous consent of
the fathers and doctors of the first ages.
They counted ceremonies such as were re-
tained in the Church as useful and edifying,
and calculated to help forward the cause of
truth and godliness. The Puritans com-
plained of all ceremonies as marring the
simplicity and purity of the Gospel. They
also denied the need of ordination by a
bishop in order to preach the gospel and
administer the sacraments, while the other
party refused them and have always refused
to allow any one to officiate in the Church
of England, unless he first receive order by
the laying on of a bishop’s hands. Some
very interesting productions written during
these controversies, may be found by those
who have the inclination to read them in
Milton’s L’Allegro, Il Penseron and Comus.
	Under James I. the Puritans asked to be
allowed, while remaining as ministers in
the church to omit certain ceremonies
to which they objected, but this
he would not agree to.
	The persecution now became so severe
that the Puritans could no longer endure it,
and a company of them fled to Holland,
where they could enjoy religious freedom.
They remained there, many others of their
faith continually joining them, during
twelve years. Their pastor, John Robin-
son, was a very worthy and honorable man,
and gave them such good care and instruc-
tion that they lived there in harmony and
peace for all those years. But they were


﻿loyal to England at heart, and disliked
the thought of having their posterity
merged into the Dutch nation. They were
ill at ease, and their thoughts turned to-
wards the New World, both on account of
their religion, and also on account of their
temporal advancement.
	About the 22nd of July, 1620, all who
were considered strong enough to endure
the hardships of pioneers, embarked on
board a small vessel, the Speedwell that had
been purchased in Holland, preparatory for
their long journey. The parting was very
affecting, their good pastor kneeling in their
midst, giving them his parting blessing,
and commending them to the care of God.
With many sad farewells and earnest hand-
claspings, they started on their remarkable
voyage. At Southampton, England, they
were joined by a larger vessel, the historic
Mayflower. The two vessels started,
but the Speedwell was found to be unsea-
worthy, and after putting back twice for
repairs, the Speedwell was finally abandon
ed, and all who could be accomodated
crowded into the Mayflower, and on Sep-
tember 6th, were finally launched on their
way. Their being obliged to leave part of
their number behind, here caused another
distressing scene of farewells. The voyage
was disagreeable and perilous in the ex-
treme. They encountered the equinoctial
gales, and for days were tossed about in an
almost disabled condition. To add to their
distress one of their number died and had
to be buried at sea.
	It was not until the 9th of November
that they came in sight of land. They
attempted to land in several places, but
were in danger of being swamped, and
after waiting for some time, finally found
their way into Cape Cod Harbor. The
Pilgrims were men of prayer, and asked
the Divine guidance and blessing on all
they did. On Saturday, November 11th,
religious services were held on board the
Mayflower, returning thanks to God for
His goodness to them, and imploring His
aid in the future. As there were some
signs of insubordination on board, it was
deemed advisable to enter into a voluntary
compact for self government. John Carver
was chosen governor for one year, and
Miles Standish captain, and the whole
number of men, who with their wives and
children amounted to one hundred and one
souls’ affixed their signatures to the follow-
ing document:
	“In the name of God. Amen. We
whose names are under-written, the loyal
subjects of our dread Sovereign Lord, King
James, by the grace of God, of Great
Britain, France and Ireland, King, defender
of the faith, etc.
	Having undertaken for the glory of God
and the advancement of the Christian faith
and the honor of our king and country, a
voyage to plant the first colony in the
northern parts of Virginia, do by these
presents solemnly and mutually, in the
presence of God and one another, covenant
and combine ourselves together into a civil
body-politic, for our better order and
preservation, and furtherance of the ends
aforesaid, and by virtue hereof to enact,
constitute and frame such first and equal
laws, ordinances, acts, constitutions and
offices, from time to time as shall be
thought most meet and convenient for the
general good of the colony; unto which we
promise all due submission and obedience.
	In virtue whereof we have here-under

[Column 2]
subscribed our names. Cape Cod, 11th
November, 1620.
	In the reign of our sovereign Lord, King
James of England, France and Ireland 18,
and of Scotland 54.”
	This, document was the germ of our free
and popular self-government, the benefits
of which cannot be too fully appreciated
even down to the present time.
			[To be Continued.]


LITTLE MARJORIE.

"Where is little Marjorie?”
There’s the robin in the tree,
With his gallant call once more
From the boughs above the door!
There's the bluebird's note, and there
Are springvoices everywhere
Calling, calling, carelessly,
"Where is little Marjorie?"

And her old playmate, the rain,
Calling at the window pane
In soft syllables that win
Not her answer from within—
"Where is little Marjorie?"
Or is it the rain, ah, me!
Of wild gust of tears that were
Calling us—not calling her!

"Where is little Marjorie?"
O, in high security
She is hidden from the reach
Of all voices that beseech;
She is where no troubled word,
Sob or sigh is ever heard,
Since God whispered tenderly—
"Where is little Marjorie?"
			JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY.


WOMAN S EXPONENT.


SILK CULTURE IN UTAH.

	THE silk industry was fairly started in
Utah as early as the year 1867.
	Mrs. Dunyon, a resident of Draper, went
to President Brigham Young and stated
that her father understood the raising of
silk and that she believed that it would
prove a profitable industry here as the
climate, etc., was everything to be desired
for the successful raising of the silkworm.
President Young had previously sent for
the seeds of the black and white mulberry
trees to France which he planted on one
of his farms called Forest Farm. He also
sent East for some silkworm eggs. Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young, who was for years
President of the silk association in Utah
taking charge of the same and that year
raising two hundred pounds of cocoons and
thirty-six ounces of eggs for another year.
	For several years the silk business proved
almost a failure and in 1872 it was taken
up by Mrs. Dunyon and myself, we meet-
ing with extraordinary success; we raised
about seven hundred pounds of cocoons
that year.
	I also learned to double and twist the
silk on a wool spinning wheel.
	The silk proved of first-class quality and
learned to raise silk in its crude state,
thouroughly understanding the different
processes from taking care of the eggs up
to preparing the raw silk for weaving, and
this in face of the fact that we had no
machinery of any kind. Mrs. Robertson
taught us how to double and twist and
spin the silk.
	As regards the feeding and raising of
silkworms the process is one in which
great care and attention is required.
	The moths or millers are placed upon
sheets of paper to lay their eggs, one mil-
ler will lay five hundred eggs or more.
	The eggs are left on the sheets
of paper and placed in a perforated box
until spring when the mulberry leaves be-
gin to grow ready for feed. The eggs have
to be kept warm until they are hatched,
when hatched they are about the size of a
point of a pin and being black they can just
be seen.
	You could then take what worms that
you could place comfortably on your hand
and they (placed on hurdles) when fully
grown would fill a room sixteen by sixteen
feet and eleven feet high.
	From the time the worms are hatched
until they are ready to spin is about five
weeks.
	They molt every five days and they are
changed every five days from one hurdle
to another, one half of the quantity being
placed on the hurdles as they increase in
size.
	When first fed the mulberry leaves are
broken up in small pieces and fed to
them, but as they increase in size whole
leaves and then branches are given, and the
last two weeks the worms have to be fed
day and night.

[column 2]
	When they have eaten and are ready to spin
they begin to hunt a place by throwing their
head around as though they were trying to
catch at something. Then we prepare
frames of lath, far enough apart for the
worms to crawl into, a double set of lath,
as it were, the worms seem to like the
roughness of the lath. They attach their
webb, something like a spider’s webb. only
thicker to form their cocoons in, that is,
they hang themselves in the wall and build
all around, compressing themselves into
one quarter of their natural size, spinning
from the inside, until they are increased;
they then change, it takes from three to
four days to make a cocoon and then they
lay dormant about five days after the
cocoon is finished. You have to pick out
the largest cocoons for those that you want
to produce eggs, and in about five days they
come out as millers which mating produce
eggs for the next year. Those of the
cocoons that we wish to produce silk, we
put in the sun or an oven to kill the
chrysalis. Those that the millers come
out of are called perforated cocoons and the
thread being broken they cannot be used
for the finest silk but for an inferior grade.
	Now the cocoons in which the chrysalis
has been killed are ready for spinning, we
would take a dozen or twenty-five cocoons
according to the size of the thread we need
and putting the cocoons into boiling water
take a small cluster of broom straws and
beat the cocoons until you catch up the
threads and then hang the threads up on
a hook or a wire and run upon to the rest
ready for twisting.
	It was very difficult to feed them at
Forest Farm,as the mulberry trees were too
high.
	The mulberry trees should be raised in
brush and planted in rows and each row
should be cut every other year.
				SUSAN A. STRINGHAM.

	MISS MARGARET WINDEYER has been
appointed by the government of New South
Wales as a commissioner to the World’s Fair.
She is the daughter of Sir William Windeyer,
the senior Puisne Judge of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales, and will
represent the colony of which her father is
so distinguished a citizen.
	LADY HENRY SQMERSET has been re-
elected president oi the British Women’s
Temperance Association by a majority
of sixty-nine. There had been a strong dif-
ference of opinion on the matter,  Lady
Henry being regarded by the conservative
element as too radical on some subjects,
especially on woman suffrage. Her re-
election is a triumph for the progressive
party. The defeated minority withdrew
from the meeting.
	THE old Liberty Bell was greeted with
cheers all along the way on its route to
Chicago. When it arrived, the great crowd
cheered itself hoarse. As we read this
account we wondered whether the men who
cheered for the deeds for which this old
bell rang would themselves uphold the
claims of justice for women, who are dis-
franchised just as the colonists were, and
do it so nobly that for centuries the world
will give them glad welcome? We hope
so.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MY KATE.

SHE was not as pretty as women I know,
And yet all your best made of sunshine and
	snow
Drop to shade,melt to nought in the long trodden
	ways,
While she's still remembered on warm and cold days—
							My Kate.
Her air had a meaning,her movements a grace;
You turned from the fairest to gaze on her face;
And when you had once seen her forehead and
	mouth,
You saw as distinctly her soul and her truth—
							My Kate.
Such a blue inner light from her eyelids out-
	broke,
You looked at her silence and fancied she spoke;
When she did, so peculiar yet soft was the tone,
Though the loudest spoke; also, you heard her 
	alone—
							My Kate.
I doubt if she said to you much that could act
As a thought or suggestion; she did not attract
In the sense of the brilliant or wise; I infer 
'Twas her thinking of others made you think of
	her—
							My Kate.
She never found fault with you,never implied
Your wrong by her right: and yet men at her side
Grew nobler, girls purer, as through the whole 
	town
The children were gladder that pulled at her
	gown—
							My Kate.
None knelt at her feet confused lovers in thrall;
They knelt more to God than they used,that was 
	all:
If you praised her as charming, some asked what
	you meant,
But the charm of her presence was felt when she
	went—
							My Kate.
The weak and the gentle, the ribald and rude,
She took as she found them, and did them all
	good;
It always was so with her,see what you have!
She has made the grass greener even here with 
	her grave—
							My Kate. 
My dear one when thou wast alive with the rest,
I held thee the sweetest and loved thee the best:
And now thou art dead, shall I not take thy part
As thy smiles used to do for thyself, my sweet-
	heart—
							My Kate.
			ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING.


THE FLOWER GARDEN.
          
	THE blue heavens seem to smile upon a
dark and fretted land, and as the rays of
sparkling sunshine are thrown across the
surface, that land becomes brighter and
reflects the smile. The soft breezes of
spring note the meeting and wave congratu-
lations, and with the wind and the sunshine
the coldness leaves the soil and the earth is
ready for the tiller’s hand. We venture
from the sheltering house and gaze on the
surrounding landscape. ‘Tis but a thought
quickly executed to gather all signs of
debris and litter together and cart them
away. A huge bonfire made of the dry
weeds, the bits of paper, and other rubbish
around the yard is a delight to the children
and a speedy and happy way of getting rid
of it. The yard once cleaned, then the soil

[Column 2]
needs turning over, that the sun may re-
move the dense dampness, then a breaking
of the hard lumps and leveling the soil and
it lies ready for the seed. There are hun-
dreds of beautiful ways to arrange the
yard,and landscape gardening is become an
art. As a pastime there is nothing
pleasanter than the care of a flower garden.
Children so enjoy helping and if to them a
spot of the yard is given for them to plant
and weed and water not only are they pass-
ing the hours pleasantly but are at the
same time taking practice lessons in botany
and horticulture and assisting in beautify-
ing the home surroundings.
	Some talk about the old fashioned flowers.
is such a thing possible, does nature have
fashions? If so, give us those dear old
fashioned things and we will arrange them
for a background to this flower garden of
ours, for what garden path is complete with-
out the tall hardy hollyhock to brighten the
way and amuse the children with their
big fanciful flowers, and then the old
fashioned flowers are mostly annuals and
once in the ground require very little care.
As to trying to describe a flower garden, so
many sweet visions of these pretty spots
present themselves before me, and I should
like the time and space to describe severally
the dear old gardens I have seen, but alas!
there are so many. What home is com-
plete without its little garden and yet may
I be forgiven if I try to describe one I
know so well for it will be a guide perhaps
to us all. It lies in the pretty and thriving
town of Ogden, and a dear oid lady who
has worked many years at the loom and at
other hard labor, uutil her hands were hard
and rough, her body weak and tired, now
in her prosperous days enjoys beyond all
things else the care of her flower garden
and such a spot it is. She will take you
through her yard and point with such
pride to the arrangement and selection of
these pretty things. On either side of the
gate rises to greet you a tall and queenly
rose and along the path lies a border of
sweet alysum, candy tuft and the blue
lobelia, near the door on either side are
large round beds of geraniums,ever a favor-
ite flower especially for bright and showy
coloring, and we are told if one wishes to
have flowers all the year round to leave the
old plants in the ground and only slip them
for the winter the young slip will grow
sufficiently during the winter to supply
the next years beds, and thus one always
has healthy and flowering geraniums.
	Along the outer border are tall graceful
dahlias,and a deep and brilliant back ground
they make to the beds and clusters of
delicate daises, petunias, asters, marigolds,
larkspurs, mignonette, nasturtiums and
the sweet scented stocks and wall flowers
and the universal favorite the hearts-ease
or pansy. We touch a beautiful little pink
blossom and ask what it may be, “That is
an English primrose from my brother’s
garden,” and this sparkling white flower
pray what is that: “Oh! that is the evening
star, it opens its pretty face to the starlight
but the golden sun is too dazzling for its
dainty bloom: so you see I have flowers day
and night, summer and winter. In early
morning when I open the window to air
my rooms these beautiful morning glories
greet me’ and at night when I take a fare-
well look at my garden these little stars
seem to say good night, we will watch the
flowers until you come again." "A very pret-
ty garden” one might say, “but we haven’t

[Column 3]
a brother in England to send us primroses
nor are we near enough to a florists to get
the cuttings and roots of these pretty things
you describe. Perhaps not, but let me tell
you, just begin a garden if you have but a
single plant to put therein and when the
soil is ready look about you for something
to plant; in a meadow near by hidden
among the grasses are wild violets, true they
are not fragrant but their deep green leaves
and purple flowers are just as pretty, if not
so sweet, as the tame one and then perhaps
cultivation will produce the lacking quality.
I mean to try it, for my little girls have
planted them along the north side of the
house and this morning I counted seven
blossoms on one root and, strange to say,
those flowers were almost as blue as forget-
menots although the others were purple.
Do your boys or your neighbor’s boys go
into the canyons for wood? If so, have
them bring down a few young pines and
plant them in groups here and there in
your yard.
	The foliage is evergreen and if not so
fine as the Arba vitae, it or other imported
shrub is certainly a noble looking tree; and
while felling the wood get them to dig up
a few of those lovely columbines, no
gardener ever raised a lovelier flower than
this and it can easily be found in our
mountains, so also can long feathery ferns
but of course one must have a moist, shady
place for them. Now when the few wild
things are started see how quickly your
neighbors and friends will help you “Why
are you going to have a flower garden, let me
give you a few roots, I want to clear out my
beds and I have some seeds as well that
you may have.” I know some one will
say this to you for I myself started a
garden this summer and the little girls
brought home seeds from school that other
little girls had given them and I only
bought one lilac bush and now in less than
a month I have a long row of lilacs all
along the north front, nine bushes I believe;
and violet and pink roots, in plenty and I
never asked for a single one, but in a few
years I expect to help some one else from
these pretty plants for I love to see gardens
every where.
	There is a time of day when too early to
light the lamp and too late to work indoors
without it; one naturally seeks the garden.
It is that sweet dreamy twilight hour, and
that is the time of all others the garden
wants you most. The sun has left the
garden heated and thirsty and now in the
cool early evening an hour’s work in the
garden is a great delight. FLORA.


The fact  that an   English  duchess  has
been  sent  to   a  common  prison   for  six
months for contempt  of court,   has led  to
many  comments  of  approval  that justice
was no   respecter  of persons  in   England.
But it is, all  the  same,  when the  offender
is of  the  other  sex.   While  the   Duchess
goes to prison for  a technical  offense Lord
Hastings, a dissipated rake,  and unworthy
of his great name, is fined a paltry  £50 for
the most despicable outrage upon a serving
maid which would  certainly  have sent   an
ordinary person to prison.
	MRS. ISABELLA BIRD BISHOP, the well-
known  traveler     and   writer   of books of
travel,   is the   first  woman  to deliver an  ad-
dress  before the British House of Commons.
She   was summoned   there to tell   what she
had   seen   of   the    Christians   in   Turkish
Koordistan.


WOMAN'S    EXPONENT.

 WOMAN'S    EXPONENT.

EMMELINE D. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camilia). -  Editorial Contributor.

	Published  semi-monthly,   in  Salt  Lake   City,  Utah.
Terms:  one copy one  year, $1.00   one  copy  six  months,
50 cts.   No reduction made for clubs.   City  papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage  one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates:. Each square, ten  lines of  nonpareil
space, one time. $2.50 per  month, $3.00.    A  liberal  dis-
count to regular advertisers.
 	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing,  Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I.    Business hours from
10 a.m.  to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER  WOMAN'S  EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered  at  the  Post  Office  in Salt  Lake City,  Utah, as
econd  class  matter.
SALT LAKE CITY - - - MAY 15, 1893


SPRING HINTS.

	IN the spring when nature puts on her
fresh and bright apparel, one longs also for
a change and as the warm days approach
we begin to plan lighter and fresher adorn-
ment both for the home and person.
	For wearing apparel there are so many
inexpensive materials in tweeds and serges,
in light colors, soft gray sand browns, tans,
and if one prefers, dark blues, that make
stylish and pretty gowns, but there is noth-
ing fresher or prettier than the ginghams,
and this year the patterns are especially
pretty in such bright contrasting colors in
plaids or stripes and best of all they wash
so clearly and nicely and are so cheap that
one can easily afford to be well dressed.
	Emptying out the wardrobes and folding
and laying aside the winter clothing and
wraps, to make room for the new lighter
clothes is rather a tiresome piece of work,
but if well done one fully appreciates it in
the fall, for it is such a comfort to take out
the warm clothing and find it all ready for
use, no mending, no buttons to sew on, and
best of all no moth-eaten places.  When
one is ready to lay aside the winter clothes
they should be properly mended and clean-
ly brushed and hung for a few hours in the
sun to make sure no moth is laid away 
with them, then carefully folded or rolled
and placed in a close box.  If one chooses a
little camphor or tobacco sprinkled among
them is good, but you will find black pep-
per will keep the moths out just as well,
still if the box is well made and a tight-
fitting lid there is not much danger from
moths.  If you have no chest for the clothes
a seamless sack will serve the purpose just
as well, and if you prefer, wrap in news-
paper first.
	Kerosene is taking quite a place in the
house work, but of course one must take
great care in the use of it.  Servant girls
are likely to misuse it, as an exchange said
lately, "five hundred things are made of
kerosene, including angels."  First of all
don't let the girl light the fire with it.
	A spoonful of it mixed with soap into a
soft soap and turned into the boiler will
make a soft suds for washing that cannot
be improved upon.  To clean the bath tub,
the sink and the zinc under the stoves it is
a great help and it adds a luster to the
tiles and hearth if used with the soap when
washing them.
	Just now when there is so much sickness
around, perhaps the readers of the
EXPONENT would like to know how to

[Column 2]
fumigate a room thoroughly and easily, and
I can give you a perfect and a proven
recipe.
	Close all the air holes, even the stove draft,
and throw all the bedding and clothes of
the room loosely on chairs or other furniture,
take a pound of sulphur and break it in
two or three pieces, place it in a tin plate
and place the plate on the bricks or in a pan of
water so there will be no danger of fire,
pour alcohol over the sulphur and light it,
light the one farthest from the door first
and move quickly so as not to inhale any of
the fumes, close the door tightly and leave 
the sulphur to burn.  It will be some hours
before the room can be opened and it is best
f possible to leave it a day and night, then
the following morning raise the windows
and let the air and sunshine in.  No gem
or bacilli can possibly live through that and
if this is carefully followed your room is
ready for cleaning and occupying again.


[Column 1]
	﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MAY—The month of flowers, the month
of beauty. The hill sides are sweet with
the purple sweetwilliams and wild peas
and the fragrance of the fruit tree blossoms
greets one from the garden. Even now, in
this backward spring, the pretty peach
blossom and the fragrant plum and pear
beautify our gardens and nature is smiling
through the storm. Not only does the
beauty of the month of May touch the
heart but the thoughts that this month
bring to us of the loved dead; for always
when the flowers bloom do we long to
gather them and lay them on the graves,
’tis such a little thing to do for our dear
ones, only to take a few blossoms to their
resting place, but it is a tender remembrance
and that one day in all the long year should
be given to the dead is most fitting. True,
every day, the thoughts of the mourner are
with the loved and lost and many a pil-
grimage does she make to the sacred grave,
but Decoration Day is a day for all and the
heart’s sorrow is softened by the mingling
of other sorrows. Then the city of the
dead is a mass of color and as one views it
carpeted with roses and lilies and sweet
blossoms I am sure animosity and ill-feeling
are unknown and good will and affection
for our fellow men prevails throughout the
land. This beautiful day each year brings
us nearer heaven and heaven nearer us.
	Mme. Isabella Bogelot of France has
recently arrived in this country. She
comes to attend the Woman’s Congress at
Chicago as a delegate from the society of
the Liberated Prisoners of St. Lagare of
which society she is the Directress-general.
The notices of the arrival of this dis-
tinguished woman and the extensive descrip-
tions of her personal charms and her won-
derful work in the different eastern papers
proves her greatness as a public benefactor.
Mme. Bogelot began her public career in
1876 and in 1888 was elected Directress-
general. Since that time she has repre-
sented the society at several times abroad—
at the Roman Congress in 1885, at
Louisanna in 1887 and at the Council at
Washington in 1888. What of her charms
and her work? Her charms are her great
human sympathy and her kindly ministra-
tion especially for unfortunate women, and
her work is her continued labor for the
cause of her society. In her own words she
says, ‘‘Why I give my whole time to it,

[Column 2]
every day from morning until night and I
have been doing it for the last eighteen
years. She took a course in clinics so that
if cases of surgery or medicine should be
necessary while engaged in her philanthrop-
ic duties she would be found competent.
	No woman even in the lowest prison cell
is too degraded or too low for her kindly
ministrations; and she opens her arms and
her heart to the unfortunate and strives to
lift them to a brighter, nobler life with her
magnetic influence and deep spmpathy and
her own beautiful life. She has brought
hundreds of fallen women from their low
positions and taught them so that their
lives were no more dishonored that they no
more contemplated self destruction but
tried to live honestly and uprightly.
	The past winter in this city such a work
as Mme. Bogelots was begun. It is called
“The Rescue,’’and is a home for fallen wo-
men who wish to reform or for unfortunate
girls who have been led astray and desire
to retrace their steps and lead virtuous
lives. It is not a home for them to idle
away their time in useless repining nor is
it a reform school with iron bars and prison
rules but a real true home, where work is
provided both for the mind and the hands
and a moral atmosphere pervades. These
noble souls who saw the field for such a
society and felt to sacrifice their time to the
work of it must have the same instincts
and human love which has actuated Mme.
Bogelots and her associates. May their
success be such that the difficulties of the
work will not be heeded. It is sad to
realize that Salt Lake City should require
such a society. Not many years since the
sight of a drunken woman onthe streets
was unknown and at first if at rare
instances such a sight were seen it struck
the beholder with horror, but with the
opening of mines, the increase of railroads,
the advance of the city towards a metropoli-
tan plane, crime has also increased and with
it of course the necessity for such a society.
May the brave women who have organized
it find among themselves such a leader as
Mme. Bogelots, for then their work will
certainly become successful and their names
be ever great for the good that they have
done.
	THE young women are beating the young
men in McGill College, up in Montreal, too.
Although only eleven women are taking the
degree of B. A. out of a graduating class of
thirty-nine, yet out of eleven graduating in
honors six are women, and out of five
medallists three are women, showing that
in taking honors the women have, in propor-
tion to their number, done three times as well
as the men.


PASSING THOUGHTS.

	SOME people object to fairy tales and say
they are taught to deceive; for myself I
do not think so.  Aside from the entertain-
ment they offer there is always a moral and
usually a very good one connected with
them.  Generally speaking, people are not
very fond of moralizing, they object to
being found fault with or to having their
faults pointed out to them, but under the
guise of a charming fairy tale many a mor-
al lesson is taught and indelibly impressed
on the mind.  This truth was recently
most forcibly brought to my mind while
spending an evening with a most beautifu;
young lady, and I mean to repeat an old


[Column 1]
well-known fairy story with the moral I
learned the other night.
	Many years ago in the far country, there
lived a widow with two daughters, Rose
and Flora.  Rose was plain looking, while
Flora was most beautiful to behold.
	The mother was a vain, foolish woman
who desired wealth and position above
virtue and truth, and through this beautiful
daughter she hoped to obtain her worldly
desires, and she strained every effort and 
means within her power to advance Flora
and educate her, that she might become
the wife of a nobleman.  She caused Rose
much sorrow in that she made her toil and
work, and she had to wait on her sister
hand and foot, in fact Rose was a mere
servant while Flora was treated like a
princess. One day poor Rose, worn out
with hard work and her feelings having
been hurt by the scolding she received, be-
gan to weep and lament.  Just then an old
lady came to the door and asked for some-
thing to eat and a place to rest, she saw the
trouble in the house and the cause, and she
told the wicked mother that some day her
daughter Rose would become great and
beautiful and that every time she opened
her mouth to speak pearls and diamonds 
and precious gems would fall from her 
mouth, and whenever Flora spoke toads
and snakes would fall from her mouth.
The mother was naturally very angry and 
drove the old woman away, but sure enough
one day a prince stopped at the house on
his way through the forests for a drink.
Not knowing his high position, Flora in a
haughty, ill-mannered was replied she did
not wait on travelers, but Rose seeing an
opportunity to do some good, immediately
waited on the Prince who was very tired
and thirsty, and so sweet was her manner
and so gentle her way that he became in
love with her and asked her mother to
give her to him in marriage.  Not knowing
his rank and believing him to be only a
common traveler, Flora did not interfere
but great was her anger and dismay when
she learned her sister's husband was a prince,
and she became very bitter and never
used nice language but rude and sour and
wicked words always passed her mouth,
while her sister Rose became a great princess
and taught her people so much goodness,
and only words of kindness and truth and
wisdom ever left her mouth.
	Now of course everybody sees the moral,
but why tell the story now?  The point is
this, my young friends, though very beauti-
ful, it is not becoming to be too opinion-
ated and too free with slang and bitter e-
pressions.  When I was a little girl and
that story was told to me I used always to
shudder and turn cold at the thought of
snakes and toads dropping from anyone's 
mouth and I used fairly to suffer in my
feelings for that poor girl who was so cursed;
but do you know expressions of hate and
envy and malice have that same effect upon
me now.  No young woman, be she ever so
beautiful, can afford to use strong and un-
pleasant language.  I do not mean profanity,
that would indeed be dreadful, and I am
thankful to say I know no young woman
who is profane, but I have heard girls
speak very rudely and disagreeably and
when they do so, I always think of the
poor unfortunate girl in the fairy tale;
but how fortunate we are to know so many
girls whose every word is a gem.
	To be sweetly spoken is a beautiful gift
and no young lady can afford to be ill-
tempered and ill-spoken, for some day the

[Column 2]
prince will come along and the soft and
gentle words will touch the heart one longs
to know, while rude words only wound or
at least displease. CAMELIA.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Is it not about time that joking at the ex-
pense of public women should be stopped?
You can hardly take up a daily paper
throughout the land but you will find a
coarse fling at some earnest reformer, the
single woman of unavowed age, or the
mother-in law. Her age is a pebble in the
hand of every underwitted reporter to
fling at her. Her zeal is but the jeer of
triflers, whose influence in the world, com-
pared to hers, is less than the breath of a
broken bellows. Her individuality is mere
crankism in the estimation of striplings,
who, if they should live until Time him-
self grew gray, would never know one-
hundredth part as much as she did before
she learned the alphabet. Men who never
in this world, nor in the far-away possi-
bilities of the next, can hope to sprout a
soul, bandy jests at her expense; stale
witticisms are flung at her airily as old
boots are thrown at vagrant cats. Is there
nothing left for man’s veneration? Has it
come to pass that even the divine love of
motherhood, with all its tender patience
and jealous care, is without honor among
men? Our grandmothers tell us, as one re-
calls the legends of a forgotten past, that
there was a time when children were taught
to be reverent; when young men were
chivalrous and old men courtly, yielding a
beautiful deference to woman, as her right,
and to motherhood as to the coronation that
made a mother queen of heaven! Did you
ever stop to think, when you joined in the
laugh that followed some coarse minstrel
joke at a mother-in-law’s expense, of all
that is involved in that term? A mother
has received from heaven, heavens’
choicest gift—a precious child. She has
brooded over every moment of its infant
life; she has stood next to God in its help-
lessness; she has nursed it through terrible
illness; she has guided and controlled,
prayed away temptation and interposed her
own bosom between the shafts of sorrow
and its tender heart. The child has grown
to womanhood, dear as her own soul, as
necessary to her being as sunshine is to the
gaunt old earth—when lo! up steps a dap-
per youth and beckons her girl away.
Where love leads young feet will follow,
and the mother’s heart is bereft of its
treasure, given over to the care of a
stranger. I declare, when I think of it
I wonder there is a sane mother-in-law in
the world.


WOMEN AS PHYSICIANS.

WRITTEN for the U. W. P. C. June 27,1893
	This is a subject I feel incompetent to do
justice to as we find the pens of many of
our great writers busy extolling the women
physicians of today for the proficiency in
the science and art of medicine to which
she has attained. Nor can there be enough
said or written on this subject until it be-
comes acknowledged to be as necessary for
every girl and woman to be carefully trained
in the medical science, as it is for her to
learn to read and write. Woman is the
heaven-appointed guardian of infancy and
youth, and to her belongs the careful train-
ing in all that tends to elevate man
physically, as well as mentally and morally.


There is a mother aptness in woman that
naturally adapts itself to the conditions of
the sick room, especially do we see this in
women of experience.
	Health is the greatest earthly boon that
can be given to man, and the science that
teaches how to preserve and restore it
should be taught to those who mature,
bring forth, and nurture mankind in its
infancy. Anciently the care of women
was in the hands of women. We read
that midwifery was entirely in their hands
both among the Egyptians and the Heb-
rews. We have all read, no doubt, in
Exodus how the Hebrew midwives out-
witted the king of Egypt, when he de-
manded that they should kill all the male
children, "But the midwives feared the
Lord." They cared nothing whatever for
the great king of Egypt. "Therefore God
dealt with the midwives, and the people
multiplied and waxed very mighty."
There is no reason to suppose that those
women did not understand the science and
art they were practicing, for we find even
to this late day, carried out amongst that
people, physological principles and hygenic
laws, that have long since past into tenets,
or traditions of their faith; but to which
modern physiologists attribute the vitality
and hardihood of the race and especially
the health of their women.
	The Greeks and Romans conferred this
branch of medicine to women. Pharnarete,
the mother of Socrates, was a midwife, and
Plato explains the functions and mentions
the duties undertaken by those women."
The works of Arsino and Cleopatra give
accounts of the women of those days being
well versed in the doctrines and practice of
medicine and then understood. We are told
there was early a law passed in Athens
prohibiting women practicing physics in
any of its branches. Modern writers have
considered this a proof that the science
did not prosper in their hands. But may
we not judge men that then, as now,
had a desire to occupy alone, all the
lucrative and important positions that
should have been occupied by both sexes.
It is well understood that during the dark
ages women were held as very little better
than slaves, and poor advancement was
made in this science as well as all others.
We need not be surprised that the ideas and
barbarous blunders of one man, although
he is considered the father of medicine, was
carried out in practice in Europe for nearly
two thousand years after his death, when
we consider that woman, with her quick
perceptions of error, was excluded from the
study. We have no further account of
women accomplishing anything in any of
the branches of medicine until Mesdames
Lachapell and Bavin, French accouchers of
great eminence, who were born in the
seventeenth century and who were not
afraid to depart from the errors practiced
and taught by their masters and "To
whose high position and scientific research
is attributed the starting point of a new era
for obstetrics in France." America has
taken the lead in educating her women as
physicians, so women have flocked here
from many other lands to receive the bless
ings and honors conferred upon them in the
medical institutes that are established
here. Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell was the
first woman in this country to obtain the
degree of M. D. She commenced her
studies in 1843. After struggling and study-
ing under different professors, and giving
careful attention to hospital work she was


[Column 1]
admitted to a full course of lectures at the
Geneve College, N.Y., where she graduated
in 1849 and afterward rose to great
leminence in her profession. In connection
with her sister, Dr. Emily Blackwell, she was
at the head of a hospital and medical col-
lege for women in N. Y. City.” These wo-
men are considered the pioneers. In 1844.
the subject of women as physicians began
to engage the attention of some of our scien-
tific men.
	“In 1848 Samuel Gregory opened a medi-
cal school for women and over fifty thousand
dollars was bequeathed to it from different
sources. From that school was graduated
many who attained to great proficiency.
The Large Eclectic College of Ohio was
one of the first to welcome women as
students. In 1850 the Rochester Eclectic
school opened its doors to women. In 1853
the Pennsylvania University was started in
Philadelpha with separate departments of
instruction for men and for women. Since
the doors of the medical colleges have been
thrown open to women, thousands have
graduated with honors and rose to great
proficiency in the practice of medicine, and
many have shown superior ability, as
principals, deans, and professors of the
various branches of medicine in the medi-
cal colleges all over our land. Many of
these experienced women physicians have
spent years abroad searching out the kernels
of experience, to bring home and enrich
this country already abundant in scientific
research.
	Dr. Clemence J. Lozier was one who
early studied medicine. She commenced her
studies in 1849, after several institutes had
refused her admission because she was a
woman. She graduated at the Syracuse
Eclectic College in 1853, and by her untir-
ing efforts a woman’s medical college was
established in New York City in 1863.
She visited Europe, where every courtesy
was show her for the inspection of hospitals.
Dr. Annie Bromall, a graduate of the Wo-
man’s Medical College of Philadelphia,
attained to great proficency as a practitioner
and as a lecturess. She spent years abroad
visiting hospitals in Paris, Vienna and
London. Mary C. Putman, who graduated
in 1864,and afterward studied in Paris, was
the first woman admitted to visit the school
of medicine in that city. Dr. Sarah
Hackett Steavenson was the first woman
admitted to the American Medical As-
sociation. This occured in June, 1876. The
Philadelphia Evening Bulletin of June 2nd,
said, “the doctors have combined mil-
lennial and centennial glories. The largest
assemblage of the medical profession yes-
terday honored itself by bursting the bands
of ancient prejudices and admitted a wo-
man to its membership by a vote that
proved that the long waged battle is won
and that henceforth professional qualifica-
tions and not sex is to be the best of stand-
ing in the medical world.
	Dr. Emily Horton Cleveland,of Philadel-
phia, who was eminently superior as
practitioner and lecturer, is often mentioned
in relation to her great domestic qualifi-
cations as wife and mother. Dr. S. H.
Stevenson very appropriately has said, .
“one can spend a lifetime in scientific work
without being known outside of her im-
mediate circle. If the vitality which a
surgeon uses in carrying out a single
operation, or that a physician expends in
carrying through a single case, or a
physiologist consumes in a single lecture,

[Column 2]
if the same amount of energy was coined
into letters and published as literature, the
author’s name would be heralded abroad by
every tongue. We are indebted to some of
America’s greatest women for much that
has been written on these interesting facts;
and there are still volumes to be written.
Women as physicians are seeking to dis-
seminate knowledge among the masses,
to establish a better condition of physical
culture, to bring about reform in dress
thereby getting at the cause and prevention
of diseases among their own sex that need
not exist.
	Utah has made a start in this direction,
she has her pioneer women physicians,
who have made great efforts to establish
schools of obstetrics that we might have
plenty of scientific and practical midwives;
but the demand for such help is very very
much greater than the supply. Our towns
are rapidly growing in population and those
settlements, which a few years ago would
have to go many miles for a doctor in case
of emergency now support one, two or
more doctors. There should be a thorough
woman physician in all such places. We
require very many young women to take
up the study of obstetrics who can give
plenty of time to become thorough masters
of the science and art of this study. It is
a department of medicine that is of very
great importance and especially should it
be so to us. To excel in this special branch
is considered to have reached the euclid
of the profession. We find men with us
taking the places that should be occupied
by women, as the care of women and
children should be in the hands of women.
There, is no wonder that there is such a
cry against women as physicians in Utah.
The men know if this department of medi-
cine was occupied by women, many of
them would have to turn to other pursuits
or seek other climes for a livelihood, which
would no doubt be a good thing for Utah.
For, while we realize that we have many
men who are fine physicians and gentlemen,
we have many whose characters would not
bear inspection and are not fit creatures to
wait on the fair daughters of Zion. An-
other reason that women should be
physicians—women will combine their
knowledge with faith. Women have
always had great faith, it is natural for her
to lean on a Superior Being, and shall we
become so professional that we depart from
our old time blessing? “The prayer of
faith shall heal the sick.” A glowing
tribute could be paid to the women of
faith who worked with the sick in early
days before physicians came to Utah. I
am not afraid to say that the mortality in
the same number of cases and conditions
is not nearly so great with our women
physicians as with men physicians, because
of their faith.
	Often in the very face of death, when no
earthly power could aid, in the midnight
hour, in the anguish of her soul, she would
cry to the Great Physician of all, “O Father
if it is not against Thy decree, give, O give
back the life that she might live to rear her
children and teach them to tread the paths
that lead to thee, ” and she has been re-
warded, a miracle has been wrought and
many lives restored, and God has answered
her, “Go,my daughter, with thy faith I am
well pleased keep in thy good work what
e’er thou [---] eth for mine afflicted shall be
granted for my angels they are with thee
and I will not refuse. Struggle on in thy

[Column 3]
great calling, no mission is there greater
than to help my precious daughters to
bring forth the souls of men and no case
shalt thou have that thou canst not deliver,
for I will bless thee with great skill, and
remember if thou canst not then I will."
Such are the blessings that the daughters
of Zion will receive that will prepare
themselves for the work.
	PHARMARETE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TO MY DEAR FRIEND,
		  CAMILLA C. COBB.

       On the death of her darling Gracie.

“No more! a harp-string’s deep and breaking tone,
   A last low summer breeze, a far-off swell,
A dying echo of rich music gone,
   Breathe through those words— those murmurs
      of farewell:
					No more!”

    IT is so hard   to   part from  the  darling
over whom you have   watched  with tender
love  and  solicitude;   so  hard  to  see  the
warm breath of  life freeze  on  the pale lips,
and the loving eyes close to  open  no more
in this life!
    Yet sister—friend,   dear   little  faithful
mother,   think   of her   in   the realms  of
glory, basking  in  the smile  of Him  who 
said, “Let the little ones come unto me for
of such is the kingdom of  heaven.”
    Let all the thoughts of   your darlings be
of the great happiness they now enjoy, in
their heavenly home;  how they  anxiously
await your coming, how  they  watch  over
you and love you more and more.
    May  the  words  of your   Gracie always
comfort you, “God loves  us beyond;" and 
may  her dear hands  hold  the golden  cord
that shall draw you to her.
    May her love be the beacon that will light
you through  the rest  of your   journey   in
life.
    Your   many,   many  friends  feel   deep
sympathy for you, dear  Camilla, and  fain
would help  you in  this dark hour.    Yet
with confidence we leave you in the hands
of a loving Father   “Who doeth  all  things
well.”
    May  His love   support  you  and  may
sweet strains of   celestial music   fall   on
your tried spirit,  like  the low  murmur  of
many waters in the ear, lulling  and sooth-
ing you to a sense of peace and rest, that
the world cannot give or take away.    Then 
in the end you will feel to say,

“Through long, long years to seek, to strive to
	yearn
   For human love—and never quench that thirst,
To pour the soul out, wi nning no return, 
   O’er fragile idols, by  delusion nursed—
				No more!

“On things that fail  us, reed  by reed, to  lean, 
   To mourn the changed, the far away, the dead;
To send our troubled spirits through the unseen,
   Intensely questioning for treasure fled—
				No more!

Words of triumphant music—bear us on  
   The weight of life, the chain, the  ungenial air;
Their deathless meaning,  when  our  tasks  are
	done
   To learn in joy;—to struggle, to despair 
			No more!

Words of despair! yet earth’s all earths—the woe
   Their passion breathes—the desolately deep!
That sound in heaven—oh! image then the flow
   Of gladness in its tunes—to  part, to weep—
				No more!"
			Lovingly,
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
SALT LAKE CITY, May 13, 1893.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SANDWICH ISLANDS RELIEF
			SOCIETY.

	[Report of the Relief Society Conference
of the Hawaiian Islands held at Laii Oahu,
April 8th, 1893.]
	As usual on such occasions, the native
sisters assembled at "Lanahuli" arrayed
in white and each wearing a society badge,
bearing the inscription "Ka Heii Manawale,"
Through the energetic efforts of our good
Marshal of the day, "Pono," the procession
was soon formed into line, and at ten
o'clock promptly was marching to the
enlivening strains of music discoursed by
our Laii Martial Band. Upon arriving at
the meeting house, all were comfortably
seated in their proper places by three of our
young native sisters who acted as ushers,
and who deserve great credit for the success 
with which they carried out their part of
the programme, viz., dispensing water to the
thirsty, arousing those who were inclined
to sleep, keeping order among the little
folks, etc.
	The house was profusely and beautifully
decorated with ferns and flowers; at the
back of the stand hung large pictures of 
Brigham Young and of the First Presidency,
draped with festoons of red and white cloth
and ferns. At each side of the stand, over
the entrance ways were to be seen pictures
of the Salt Lake Temple, one representing
the Temple in its early course of erection,
the other showing the beautiful edifice since
its completion. The walls of the Taber-
nacle, on either side, were ornamented
with banners of various kinds inscribed
with some of the noble sentiments uttered
by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Our Presi-
dent, Sister Libbie Noall, called the Con-
ference to order and after the usual opening
exercises, reports were read by the Sec'y,
Sister Kekuewa Nakuaau, showing a mem-
bership of 692; number of meetings held
during the half year 429.
Balance in treasury at date of last report, $367.75
Money donated during this term...174.44
			DISBURSEMENTS.
Donation to the poor	. . . . . . .	53.50
"	"	"	Temple	. . . . .	93.45
"	"	"	Missionary fund . . 17.05
Tithing						10.70
Miscellaneous donations		63.60
Balance in treasury				304.49
	The remainder of the two sessions of our
Conference was devoted to the "Eleles," or
representatives of the different branches
from the several Islands, numbering about
thirty-one, who gave in their reports as to
the condition of their various societies,
which reports proved to be the most com-
plete and satisfactory that have been com-
plete and satisfactory that have been pre-
sented before the Conference for several 
years; every society upon the Islands, with
but two or three exceptions, were repre-
sented, and all reported as being in a fairly
prosperous condition, this speaks well for
the integrity, faithfulness and liberality of
the sisters, when we take into consider-
ation that the majority of the Saints are
very poor, having but limited means where-
with to meet the demands made upon them.
The reports of the "Eleles" were inter-
spersed with words of instruction from the
white sisters, also songs, solos, duets, etc.,
which added life and spirit to our meetings.
	The presiding authorities of the Relief
Societies in all the world were unanimously
sustained by the Conference, after which
the following local officers were sustained
for the ensuing six months:
	Prest. of the Relief Societies of the 
Hawaiian Isles, Libbie Noall; Counselors,

[column 2]
Jennie Harding, Nellie Grace, Maggie
Davis, May Duffin, Annie Thurber, Katie
Hottendoof and Lizzie Brown.
	Of the native sisters, Kekuewa Nakauau
and Kahuhu; aids, Kalua Palaoa and
Niaulani. Rec. Sec'y—Kekuewa Nakuaau
with Luka Kauhine as her assistant. Cor.
Sec'y. Nellie Grace; treasurer, Matthew
Noall. Sister Noall spoke at some length,
giving the sisters timely words of counsel
and instruction pertaining to their duties,
also read a letter from the first presidency
of the Relief Societies, touching upon the
duties of the different officers of the society,
this letter was explained in full to the un-
derstanding of all present. President Noall
followed, addressing the Saints in his
usual lively and spirited manner, encourag-
ing them in their labors, after which he
spoke upon the necessity of organizing a 
Primary Association and the benefit that
would result from such an organization;
this subject had been previously agitated
and discussed by the sisters and all were of
one heart and one mind in desiring to take
upon themselves this new labor in behalf
of the native children of the Laie branch.
	The following names were submitted to the
Conference and sustained as officers of the 
Association: Libbie Noall Prest., Maggie
Davis and Lizzie Brown, Ioane I., Sec'y,
Elena Ass't Sec, Musical Director, Nellie
Grace, Treas. Katie Hottendorf.
	A social reunion and dance at the school
house in the evening, proved a happy
sequel to the day's proceedings and was
thoroughly enjoyed by all.
	A special officer's meeting was called by
our President, for the benefit of the visiting
sisters, wherin they might counsel with the
missionary sisters upon subjects pertaining
to the welfare of their societies, which
would not be advisable to discuss in a pub-
lic meeting.
	They left their "aloha mii" with us, and
took ours with them to be distributed
among the Saints of their respective dis-
tricts; and thus they parted from us, feeling
amply repaid for coming to conference, and
filled with the good things they had heard,
so the good work is rolling on in this part
of the world and the missionaries take
pleasure and satisfaction in proclaiming glad
tidings of joy and salvation to this branch
of the house of Israel, and they feel proud
of the honor bestowed upon them in being
counted worthy to assist in pruning the
vineyard of the Lord for the last time.
				MRS. NELLIE GRACE,
	Cor. Sec. Relief Society of the Hawaiian
Islands. Laie, April 20th, 1893.


[column 1]
KING JAMES OF ENGLAND.
	JAMES the first of England and sixth of
Scotland was the only son of Mary Queen
of Scotts and Henry Lord Darnley, was
born in Edinburgh, June 19, 1566; at the
death of Queen Ellzabeth he succeeded to
the throne of England. Scotland had been
a separate kingdom since the time of Robert
Bruce but now became united with England
in a gratifying manner, having given in-
stead of receiving a king. A few weeks be-
fore the death of Queen Elizabeth, a con-
quest commenced four hundred years be-
fore, by Strongbow; was completed by
Mountjoy, and scarcely had James the first
mounted the English throne than the last
O’Donnell and O’Neil, who held the rank
of independent princes of Ireland, kissed
his hand at White Hall, thus uniting

[column 2]
England, Scotland and Ireland, it would be
supposed the united kingdoms would be
very powerful; both nations were intelli-
gent, courageous and in mental cultivation
the Scotch equaled any other country in
their religious fervor, they were Protestant
while Ireland still remained true to the old
religion. Ireland was treated as a province
won by the sword and Scotland did not
escape,in many ways being treated as a sub-
ject province, but we find the condition quite
the reverse it seemed to be no more importance
than the little kingdom of Scotland had
done. Macaulay think at this critical time
it really was fortunate that James was not
a great leader, for it was a time when
England should be absolute or parliament
control the executive administrations; being
weak minded and good natured. He
further says it was at this time those
strange theories which Tilmer afterwards
formed into a system and which became the
badge of the most violent class of Tories
and high churchmen first emerged into
notice. It was gravely maintained that
the Supreme Being regarded hereditary
monarchy as opposed to other forms of
government with peculiar favour, that the
rule of succession in order of primogeniture
was a divine institution anterior to the
Christians and even to the Mosaic dispen-
sation, that no hnman power, not even that
of the whole legislature, no length of
adverse possession, though it extended to
ten centuries, no power could deprive a
legitimate prince of his rights, that the
authority of such a prince was necessarily
despotic, that the laws by which in England
and in other countries the prerogative was
limited were to be regarded merely as con-
cessions, which the sovereign had freely
made, and might at his pleasure resume,
and that any treaty which a king might
conclude with his people was merely a
declaration of his present intentions and
not a contract of which the preformance
could be demanded.
	James was very secure under this act.
He boasted of his kingcraft and irritated
his parliament by telling them they held
their privileges only during his pleasure
and had no more right to question him
what he should lawfully do than to question
Deity in the same moment. He maintained
the same policy as regards religious belief,
the authority of the Church of England; per-
secuted the Roman Catholics, which severties
caused the gun powder plot, and from the
quickness with which he grasped and acted
on this occasion it is supposed he had
knowledge of it previous to the official
notice. The project was on the fifth of
November, 1605, to overthrow the govern-
ment by placing explosives under the house
of parliament when it was in session, after-
ward warning all who were Roman Catholics
not to be present,to ignite it and blow them
into eternity, it was the warning of these
Catholics which gave the clue to the pro-
ject in time to prevent it. Guy Fawkes,
although only an accomplice, not the origi-
nator, has been a name detested by all
England.
	James married in 1589 Princess Anne,
daughter of Frederic the II. of Denmark.
During a visit to Scotland in 1619 his eldest
son Henry, Prince of Wales,died. He was de-
sirous of effecting a marriage between his son
Charles, now Prince of Wales, and a Span-
ish Princess and it was while negotiation
for this marriage that insults were received
which resulted in war.
	James' claims to supremacy in religious


as well as civil government led to severe per-
secutions; he confiscated the property of
the Roman Catholic and he manifested his
dislike in many other ways.
	The Puritans or dissenters from the
Church of England were also severely per-
secuted on account of the simplicity of
their faith, and claims of the New Testa-
ment as religious authority caused his per-
secution to extend to this class, fearing they
in their earnestness might have an influence,
which would rob him of his supremacy.
Some fled to Holland, and during these per-
secutions in 1620 the Pilgrims left
England for America.
	Shortly after or about this critical time King
James died, and Charles the First ascended
the throne. He was by nature stronger
than his father, but possessed the same
political views. By the same religious in-
fluence surrounding him, he was made to
believe he could not divest himself of his
despotic authority, and when necessity re-
quired his acting as judge could break any
contract he might make.
	The House of Commons was composed of
able statesmen, who were determined to
conform to parliament, or to govern with-
out law.
	The king dissolved parliment and levied
taxes without legal right. Another parli-
ment was called and dissolved, and still
another, with stronger opposition than
ever. One of the fundamental laws of
England was that the king could not im-
pose taxes without the consent of parlia-
ment; administration was bound to be con-
ducted by law. The king was forced to
call parliament, and on the third of Novem-
ber, 1640, this memorable body began its
sittings. Both houses were firm in their
opposition to his dispotism. He was obliged
to consent to many things against his con-
viction. Seeking to make peace with the
Scots and gain their favor, he visited Scot-
land; while there a massacre against Pro-
testants took place in Ireland, and it seemed
that all hope of peace was destroyed.
	On returning to England he found
Parliament more exacting than ever to-
wards him, but a spirit of greater liberty
towards the people seemed to predominate,
though there still existed the belief in
hereditary monarchy and dissensions arose
in the House of Commons. To weaken
the Royalists would be to obtain possession
of the king. Cromwell seemed to under-
stand the situation. It was desired to
terminate the contest between the crown and
parliament and give the supreme control
over to the executive administration.
	Many Royalists through their love of
monarchial government, were attached to
hereditary monarchy; they took sides with
King Charles, though they were not in
sympathy with his conduct and condemned
and lacked confidence in his policy, yet they
venerated the kingly office.
		[To be Continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	“IT was a happy omen of the position
which woman was to hold in America, that
the only person who comprehended the
majestic scope of his plans, and the invinci-
ble qualities of his genius, was the able
and gracious Queen of Castile. Isabella
alone of all the dignitaries of that age
shares with Columbus the honors of his
great achievement. She arrayed her king-
dom and her private fortune behind the
enthusiasm of this mystic mariner, and


posterity pays homage to her wisdom and
faith.
	“The overthrow of the Mohamedan pow-
er in Spain would have been a forgotten
scene in one of the innumerable acts in the
grand drama of history had not Isabella
conferred immortality upon herself, her
husband and their dual crown by her
recognition of Columbus. The devout
spirit of the Queen and the high purpose
of the explorer inspired the voyage, sub-
dued the mutinous crew and prevailed over
the raging storms. They covered with
the divine radiance of religion and human-
ity, the degrading search for gold and the
horrors of its quest, which filled the first
century of conquest with every form of
lust and greed.—Chauncey M. Depew in
Columbus Oration.
	Miss Jennie Young, the American
girl whose enterprise in building a railroad
to extensive salt deposits which she owns
in Chihuahua has created a stir throughout
Mexico, has been granted a valuable con-
cession by the Mexican government for the
establishment of colonies in the States of
Chihuahua and Coahuila. . Miss Young
left for London, England, a few weeks
ago, and while there will arrange to bring
over several thousand English families to
settle as farmers upon the lands which she
secured from the government. Miss Young
has been in Mexico several years, and is
well known to President Diaz.


OBITUARIES.
Editor Exponent—
	DEAR SISTER, it is with feelings of sadness we
record the death of another dear sister. Cleopatra
Burrgess Keele, the beloved wife of Elder M. A.
Keele, departed this life 1st of May, 1893 Sister
Keele was born at Springville on 4th of August, 
1858. She was a good Latter-day Saint. During
her last illness she manifested great faith in the
ordinances of the Gospel. Everything was done
that loving hands could do but the powers of
death prevailed and she passed away surrounded
by loved ones and friends. She was a true wife
and mother, had eight children, five survive her to
mourn her loss. The funeral services were held at
the meeting house May 2nd. A large concourse
of relatives and friends followed the remains to
their last resting place. May God comfort the
bereaved husband and children is our prayer.
				SARAH G. MEEKS, Prest.
				BETSEY S. GOODWIN, Sec. 

Editor Exponent:
	ANOTHER of our aged mothers in Israel has
been called beyond the vail. Mother Eleanor
Turner Willden, relict of the late Charles Willden,
departed this life April 30th,1893, at the residence
of her son Elliot. Sister Willden was born at
Laughton Lemorthen, Yorkshire, England in the
year 1810; joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter Day Saints in 1843, and emigrated to this 
country in 1849. Has resided in Southern Utah
forty-one years. She leaves four sons, two
daughters, seventy grand children and sixty-six
great-grandchildren. Mother Willden was a
faithful worker in the Relief Society, having been
a teacher in that organization a great many years.
She was a zealous believer in the cause of truth.
				R. W. TYLER, President. 
				A. M. TANNER,Secretary.
BEAVER CITY, U. T.,May 15th, 1893.

	DIED Wednesday, April 26th, 1893. in the 16th
Ward, Salt Lake City, Sarah Luck Cumberland, 
in the sixty-fifth year of her age. She was born
February 24th, 1829, in England. Was married to 
Francis Luck, Feb. 29th, 1849, by whom she had
one son who died in infancy.
	She joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in her youth and was diligent in The
performance of every good work, such as dis-
ributing tracts, visiting the sick and relieving
heir wants, as far as it was in her power. She
was always willing to divide her last morsel with
tthe needy, she was ready to obey the counsel of 
those whom God had appointed to lead His
people.
	She emigrated to Utah in a company of Saints


September, 1857, that was led by Homer Duncan
and some other Elders.
	I will here relate a circumstance which occured
while on her journey to Zion. They were met
by a company of apostates on the way back to
their old home, some of whom she had been
acquainted with in England, when they were in
the Church. They told Sister Sarah she would
be sorry before winter was over if she did not
turn and go back with them, telling her what she
might expect if she went on, but Sister Sarah had
found the pearl of great price and did not feel
to barter away her present and eternal happiness
for what she had already proved could never
satisfy a candidate for eternal life, in the presence
of Him who had gone to prepare a place for all
the faithful in Christ Jesus, so she determined to
hold on to the rod of iron with all the weak-
nesses of human nature to contend with.
	She was married to Henry Cumberland Jan. 20,
1868, she has been diligent in working  for the
Relief Society; filling the office of assistant
secretary for many years and has filled the office
of secretary four years, during which time she
was always prompt, precise and truly faithful in
the performance of every duty pertaining to her
calling. 
	We shall miss her much but now she‘s gone
we’ll not recall her to a suffering world like this.
				DIANA REED, President.
     				MERCY R. THOMPSON, Treasurer.


DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
	Office: II South, First West.Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2
			until 4 p. m.        
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n 
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
		AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
			POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S.
WEST TEMPLE STREET,
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables. 

	MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.
R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30and 32 East 1st South St.,

			SALT LAKE CITY

		The Leading Retail 
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

	DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and For-- PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City

	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, will commence
her summer class in Obstetrics and Nursing
on Monday May 1st 1893.
	Office and residence 34 East, 5th South
Telephone 383.


<Elizabeth Pugh﻿>
WOMAN'S EXPONENT
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
