VOL. 21. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1892. No. 7.


CONTENTS.

	Soul Message—L. M. Hewlings. In Rural
England—A Story. Notes and News. Constitu-
tional Amendments N. A. W. S. A.—Rachel
Foster Avery. A Trip to Bannock Stake—M.
Isabella Horne. Empress Frederic and Wo-
men's Federation—May Wright Sewall.
	EDITORIAL:—Conference Notice. Relief Society
Conference. Primary Officers Meeting. Editorial
Notes. Utah World's Fair Commission—May
Preston, Sec'y. World's Fair Work. Delsarte
and Education. Edmund Russell and Delsarte.
Woman's Work on the Sandwich Islands—Libbie
Noal. Solution of the Labor Problem—W. G. C.
Edholm.
	POETRY:—Isabella—Hannah T. King. Vaca-
tion—Alfred L. Townsend. Whittier—Margaret
E.Sangster. The Deacon's Son—Mrs. L. S.
Dickinson.


[Column 1]
		ISABELLA.

OH, Woman! Genius, power, kingdoms,
Thrones, with all their charms, and prestige—
Sceptres, subjects, ministering spirits—
Hover round thy footsteps, to watch thine eye,
To catch thy lightest word and that obey;
To stand in highest altitude, erect and firm,
And ne’er turn dizzy with the regal height—
Who still is WOMAN, still her nature holds,
Pure, unsullied, as a queen should be,
Who has an ear for Truth, for Genius,
In whatever form it comes, though stript
Of worldly grandeur—all the world calls great;
And standing like the far-famed obelisks
Of far-famed Egypt, alone, unread,
With naught to herald it but that intense,
That persevering Genius God bestows
On those He singles out to do His work;
His work on earth where man his agent is,
And woman too, his partner and co-mate
In all the grand essential moves upon
The mighty chess-board of the game of life.
Such was Isabella, Sovereign of Castile
And Queen of Ferdinand and Spain.
To Ferdinand—himself a king—she brought
Her throne, her kingdom, subjects, and herself,
And laid them at the feet of him, to whom
More, more than all, she gave her loving heart—
A gem of which a monarch might yet be proud;
And he—most rarely found—proved worthy,
Of all the wealth she showered on his head.
They lived, and loved and reigned conjointly,
Hand and heart united in their regal work,
When lo! a man in humble guise presents
Himself, and with them craves an audience.
He is admitted. In person, regal
As the pair to whom he is presented;
She has an eye at once to read the man;
A heart to feel he bears upon his form
The duplicate of HIM who gave the mission,
And sustained throughout, in every need the man
Ferdinand gives attention—Isabella
Enthusiasm. She felt the man of God
A messenger direct, and hence prepared
To learn his mission and obey his voice.
Columbus spoke! and then at once a queen
Stood forth as the apostle of his cause;
A queen, a woman, a proselyte of truth,
A truth that did enrich his day and age;
Was first received by woman’s gentle heart;
Isabella was that woman, and she
Never waver’d, but until death was true.
Before her court’s indifference, before
His enemies, or his reverses, she
Believed him true, and was upon the throne
His proselyte, and to the grave his friend.

[Column 2]
Ferdinand, in this, was worldly-minded;
Isabella saw, with spirit eyes, he
Was a man of destiny! a man of God!
And told the man appointed to investigate
The claims Columbus advocated,
That they were haggling with God the price of
Empire, and of souls, whom to idolatry 
Their infidelity would leave. The king
Had not the faith that he could meet expense
So mighty as a naval outfit for
The man, who, in returning, promised
An Empire that should astound the world
And ages yet unborn.

Isabella listened to the colloquy, then with a
Burst of heavenly enthusiasm cried,
"I will undertake the enterprise alone
For my crown of Castile; I will pawn
My diamonds and my jewels, in MY eyes
Most worthless, compared with what is offered
By this great, good man, whom God has sent to
	us.”
This noble burst of woman’s feeling triumphed.
The king chagrined, consented to inspect
His treasury and see what could be done!
“Disinterestedness is the true wisdom
Of great politicians!” Columbus
Was re-called. He bow’s at the feet of her
Who’d nobly won for him the victory;
His soul was full of sweet emotions,
And she wept tears upon his noble head;
Ferdinand was moved and ratified the deed,
And into unknown seas the explorer passed.
						HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]

SOUL MESSAGE.

	WORDS are the lights which the genera-
tions carry, these kindle lamps along the
track of life, some of them give a glorious
lustre, clear as the most brilliant star, while
others are dim flickering and uncertain.—
We may read sermon's in stones and run-
ning brooks, it is said, and marvelous tales
are whispered through forest trees, through
song of bird and hum of bees, but there
came to me this hazy, chilly morning a
message through a small shell and little
pebble picked up on the shore of the sacred
Sea of Galilee. That little pebble and tiny
shell placed in my hands as a memento of
travel in the Holy Land were unconsciously
the bearer of a real soul message. It lifted
me from out the four square walls of my
room, bore me away from common cares
and common things and from all sense of
tired feet or weary brain.—Holding them
in my hand I went out with thee, dear one,
over the mountains and by the sea of Gali-
lee through the gardens of Jerusalem, to
the Red Sea, River Jordan bathed in its
tide, went up to the mountain of Tempta-
tion and over the plains of Gennesareth
wandered through towns and cities that
were once busy with life and swarming like
a great bee-hive, now in ruins, desolate and
deserted.
	 North and East, over the valleys and
cities of Syria, far beyond the great desert
to the plains of Assyria and Babylonia
where once were teeming multitudes and
magnificent palaces,—we stood together by
the mighty pyramids while they told us of

[Column 2]

the past greatness and splendor of a re-
nowned kingdom—we gazed out and over
the desolated, queenly City of Tyre once the
heart and centre in many respects ot the
world's life—we looked back and down the
ages where we saw countless caravans mov-
ing over the mountain passes and along the
narrow coast tracks bearing the wealth of
Arabia, of Babylonia, of India, and from the
busy harbor saw the mighty ships sail
away laden with the same merchandise for
the Colonies planted along the shores of
Greece, Italy, Africa and Spain.—Proud
City of Tyre! once rejoicing over the fall of
Jerusalem thinking to enrich thyself still
further from its ruin.
	Where is thy greatness and beauty now?
Where are the silver and fine gold that thou
didst heap up as the dust and as mire of
the streets? Where are thy swift horses
and magnificent gilded Chariots, thy sons
and daughters, and pleasant houses? Thy
lofty watch towers? Thy proud Navy and
Merchant princes? The Lord God has 
brought the deep upon thee, and great
waters covered thee," and thou who wert
once so famous art now but a heap of
ruins.
	The Hebrew prophet proclaimed the
message against thee which God had given
him. That message has been literally ful-
filled. Heaven and earth shall pass away
but my word shall not pass away.
			L. M. HEWLINGS.


IN RURAL ENGLAND. 
				XXIII. 
	And Jane Conway awakened by her
maid, was conscious of her wonderful dream,
and also of the realities of the present so
full of importance and of doubt and mis-
giving concerning herself. She dressed
hurriedly and was soon seated at the break-
fast table doing the honors as though
nothing had happened to disturb her
serenity.
	Burke and Hemenway were going away
but would ride over the adjoining grounds
first with Clair, and that was a relief, she
ardently hoped they would invite Dr. Bland
to join them; but why should she postpone
the issue that awaited her? She asked her-
self this question silently. “Cousin Anna 
you had better remain below and speak to
your guardian about your affairs when he
comes in this morning?” said Miss Conway
as she saw her cousin about to go as the 
Doctor came up the walk towards the castle.
O, my affairs are all right, I am not in the
least concerned, not half as much as I am
for you my dear cousin; you look pale and
tremble, you are not in love with Dr. Bland,
and yet you have promised, how I pity you,
why didn’t you ask Uncle Rob what to do?”
And as she spoke Jane blushed scarlet, but
Anna did not perceive it. “I know what-
ever you decide now will be right,” Anna
continued, “for you have such forethought
and measure everything you do with line 
and plummet, but here he is and now bon
jour,” and away flew Anna that her cousin
might be alone with the man she had pro-


[Column 1]

mised to marry. The interview was a long
one, Clair and his lawyers returned from
their ride, and the two men departed on
their journey in fact the sun was in the
meridian ere the Doctor and Jane emerged
from the drawing room. Both looked very
grave yet withal satisfied, and before an
hour had passed, Jane had informed Anna
that her marriage was to take place as soon
as the preliminary arrangements could be
made.
	"And I always thought you would be a
spinster and so did papa, and keep our house
and take care of us all and our children."
	"You were all wrong as you will see in a
few weeks, and my dear cousin you will be
the responsible person in the house, and it
requires tact to keep an establishment like
this in running order, everything is at
sixes and sevens now with this grand fete
and Mrs. Burke is on her high heels with
having her gentleman cousin down from
London, "the great solicitor of the late Sir
Edward," as she says, and it will take some
days now to get all the household machin-
ery in order again."
	"Dear Jane do give me a few lessons in
management before this wedding comes off.
By the bye where are you to be married?
and what will you wear, and how many
bridesmaids will you have? Do tell me all
about it!"
	"Dont talk so rapidly dear asking so
many questions in a breath, and I will an-
swer some of them. We are to be married
in the little Church near by, and as for
bridesmaids I had not thought of them at
all, and you know we are still in mourning
for my uncle, that decides the dress."
	"How very stupid, we went to balls and
parties in London, without the insignia of
mourning, why should you feel it essential
to wear black at a wedding, particularly the
bride, my old nurse told me when I was
a child that it was bad luck to wear black
to a wedding, and I'm sure it must be for
the bride to be in black."
	"That point is settled Anna neither the
Doctor or myself are at all superstitious,
and therefore it will make no difference
whatever your nurse may have told you."
	"How about the house cousin when can
we see it, will you go to day to look at it,
and take me with you? I thnk it must be
very nice to go to a new place, and not live
in such a weird, dusty, dark, old ruin as
this is, where the very owls and bats prowl
about at night."
	"As to that, I have a fondness for this
house, it has a history, that is exceedingly
interesting, think of the long line of an-
cestry that have occupied these rooms, and
the daring exploits of the brave men who
fought in the great battles of the country;
I love to look at the armory though it is
rusty and neglected."
	"I have no taste for all this paraphernalia,
I like the living present, full of life and
beauty and activity. Clair is welcome to
this tumble-down rookery, and I hope when
I marry Maitland that we shall have a new
house and live in London and visit all the
fine places, and not go round and round,
over and over, the self same identical places
and walks and drives, year in, and year out
as we do here; I'm so tired of this place,
and as for its history who knows it? I
didn't even know about my own mother
until uncle Rob told me."
	"I often fancy I see the people coming
and going through these rooms Lords and
Ladies and Dowagers, and hear them talk-
ing to each other indistinctly, and depend

[Column 2]

upon it Anna people are impressed by their
surroundings, whether you believe it or
not." said Miss Conway. "O, Jane you
make me feel queer, what has come over
you, to give way to such fancies? I shall
not like to stay here, when you are gone, if
you go on like this, I shall be expecting to
see something, one of those old men or wo-
men, who lived so long ago, really you
make one shiver with dread."
	"Anna these people are not coming back,
it is just my imagination that is so vivid, I
would like to see them if it were possible,
and if I should not be too much alarmed, I
want to know about the unseen. What has
any one ever told us that is satisfactory?
Nothing! absolutely nothing! Ask whom
you will, they don't know. My mother
told me more during her illness, of the
Bible and its teachings, than I have ever
heard from any one however learned.
There must be something in the future
more than our ministers teach, and I long
so to know, I yearn for that knowledge
which divines and philosophers talk of, but
they do not possess."
	"I'm sorry your not a minister yourself
Jane, you could tell us something more
than Mr. Phillips does, he is so stupid, he
can't talk about anything in the world, or
beyond."
	"My father was a clergyman and I may
have something of his nature and tendency,
but Anna my mother was as lofty in her
ideals and as pure in her aspirations, and as
conscientious in all her life as any minister
could possibly be however devoted, and I
feel that I shall some day find a better way
than we have been taught, one in which we
can do more good, we do not make any
sacrifices; we scarcely go out of our way to
relieve suffering: we nurse and tend our
own, and think in doing that we are hero-
ic."
	"Jane you do surprise me with your
peculiar views of morality and religion. I
know you have the most exalted ideas of
life and its service, and the Doctor will co-
operate with you in the charities that seem
suited to such temperaments as yours; as
for me I'm too indifferent to do good even
though I do appreciate it in you and honor
you for your freedom of thought and ex-
pression; just now I'm thinking of Mait-
land and that absorbs my time and intellect
too."
	"You have a kind heart Anna and should
circumstances change, you might yet feel
as I do that we should live for something
outside our own domain, experiences in life
often bring out rich qualites that have lain
dormant and neglected."
	"Don't say such dreadful things to me
Jane you make me feel like a culprit, its
very unpleasant—I'm sorry you are not in
a happier mood just after your interview
with Dr. Bland, he must have ruffled your
feathers methinks, I never knew you quite
so prosy."
	"I think we've talked enough on this
subject, but seriously Anna I never have
had so many grave reflections before,
possibly it is because of the new role I am
about to enter upon that is making me feel
how very important a thing it is to give
yourself into another's keeping."
	"It may make that sort of impression
upon you cousin Jane, but it seems to me
if I were to be married so soon I should be
the happiest girl alive, united with Maitland
never more to be separated to be always to-
gether henceforth, must bring superior hap-
piness."

[Column 3]

	"I trust you will find that sweet content
in your married life that will satisfy the
highest aspirations of the human soul my
dear Anna; for my own part I do not ex-
pect it, there mnst be somethlng higher in
the world than simply living on from day
to day as people do, and I long to reach
those high ideals that to us now seem un-
attainable. I would that I knew more of
science, the science of life, what it really is,
and for what purpose we were created."
	"Doctors know a great deal about those
mysteries don't they cousin? Dr. Bland
will be able to enlighten you on those points
surely when you are married."
	"Candidlly Anna he understands no more
than I do the things I long to fathom, nor
does any one I fear, we must have greater
knowledge to comprehend these occult
sciences. God alone knows; and the old
prophets had light revealed to them direct,
but in our day there is no revelation from
heaven save that which comes to us inward-
ly, these perceptions that we only feel but
cannot express."
	"I wish Jane you were better satisfied
with things as they are and not reaching
out after the unattainable, or if you want
knowledge, study with some of the great-
est divines and see whether they could tell
you the things yon long so ardently for."
	"No Anna I am going to marry Doctor
Bland and be a faithful, obedient submis-
sive wife—that seems to be the line of duty
marked out for me now, only occasionally I
have these misgivings and then I shake
them off and bury myself in everyday
work, nevertheless the time will come when
women will have a broader platform to
work upon and life will be so much more
desirable."
	This conversation showed plainly the
drift of Miss Conway's mind and heart.
She was a women of strong mentality,
capable of great undertakings, and she felt
within her the boundless possibilities of a
mighty work in raising the standard of wo-
manhood, to a lofty independence and free-
dom of thought and action, but she realized
how helpless woman herself was under ex-
isting conditions; yet the prophecy of the
future was prescient within her soul.
	Time sped onward rapidly and Jane
Conway realized how soon the wedding
ceremonies must be solemnized. She had
sometimes accompanied the Doctor in his
morning visits to patients in the vicinity
carrying with her flowers and delicacies such
as invalids require and withal taking into
these lowly homes a sweet influence and a
spirit of cheerfulness, and many a dear old
soul had said, "what a happy pair, how
well they are mated." The Spring had
come and the fields and meadows were
green with the fresh grass, and dotted with
cowslips and butter-cups, the hedges were
teeming with fragrant blossoms that filled
the air with sweet perfume and on every
tree the birds were caroling songs of melody
and all nature rejoiced in the spirit of love-
liness.
	Maitland Walton had returned from the
metropolis and every day rode to the castle,
Lady Anna and Clair joining him in riding
or walking through and around the beauti-
ful grounds and parks that were teeming
with beauty and bloom. Lady Anna was
profoundly happy and everything wore
color de rose for her; and she could not see
why her cousin should be so melancholy, at
the approaching nuptials.
	Coming into the room one day suddenly
after a saunter through the fields she dis-


covered her cousin in tears, and without
stopping to consider, threw her arms around
her and thinking to console her; with tell- 
ing her good news said, “don’t cry Janie
Uncle Rob is coming and we shall have the
jolliest times and he’ll be best man at the
wedding.” The very best medicine Jane
Conway could have had was to hear that
Mr. Harrison was coming, for she knew
she must be brave now, there must be no 
shadow on her brow, he must not suspect
her secret (if in deed she had one) and to
avoid her cousin Anna’s suspicions of the
real cause of her desponding, she professed
to be delighted at the same time inwardly 
accusing herself of hypocrisy.
	“When is your Uncle coming?” she in-
quired as if apparently anxious. “We
must prepare rooms for him Anna, you
know he likes apartments rather secluded
as he has so much writing to do; I will see
to it immediately, it may take some time to
get the rooms well aired, for Mrs. Burke
will persist in keeping them so close, that
they really get musty.” All this to keep
Anna from noticing her excitement and
away she went to look after the comfort of
the expected guest. And sure enough she
had not much time to lose, for he arrived
the same night. Miss Conway was not
there to greet him, though he asked for her
directly after his coming into the house,
	“And what a dear old place this is,” he
said to Anna, “it is like a fairy tale or le-
gend to be here, everything is so quaint and
antique; one ought to have wonderful
dreams of the past in a place like this
whether waking or sleeping. And so your
cousin is to be married very soon Clair tells
me” said he addressing Anna “and the
Doctor, is he young and accomplished that
he carries off such a prize?”
	“No Uncle Rob he is not young he is get-
ting grey, but he is very wise and good,
and excellent in every respect.”
	“And so is your cousin wise and good as
you say of the Doctor, I hope she will be
happy, she deserves the best of husbands;”
this last with an emphasis that made Anna
stare, and she wondered why he was so
particular about the matter. “You will
see Dr. Bland tomorrow I’m sure, Uncle
Rob and of course you will like him; the
wedding is to take place a week from
tomorrow.”
	“So soon,” said her uncle, and Rob Har-
rison with out further comment, asked to
be shown to his room.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


VACATION.

		BY ALFRED L. TOWNSEND.

A stretch of rapids, shadow flecked;
	A fringe, of rushes, fresh and green;
A sloping mountain, pine bedecked;
	A waste of brush, spread in between;
A breath of breezes softly blown,
	A whispering sound of rustling leaves;
A haze the forest fires have thrown;
	A mossy rock the water cleaves;
A slender willow river swung;
	A circling eddy cool and dark;
Some far off music softly sung,
	A floating bit of broken bark,
 A shady nook beside the stream,
	A dainty hand. A lovelit eye;
’Tis joy to live, ’tis bliss to dream,
’Twould be a pleasure e’en to die.
		The Carlifornian Illustrated Magazine.


WHITTIER.

BY MARGARET E. SANGSTER.

HIS fourscore years and five
	Are gone, like a tale that is told.
The quick tears start, there's an ache at the
		heart,
	For we never thought him old.

Straight as a mountain pine,
	With the mountain eagle's eye,
With the hand clasp strong, and the unhushed
		song,
	Was it time for him to die?

Prophet and priest he stood
	In the storm of embattled years;
The broken chain was his harp's refrain,
	And the peace that is balm for tears.

The hills and the valleys knew
	The poet who kept their tryst.
To our common life and our daily strife
	He brought the blessing of Christ. 

And we never thought him old,
	Though his locks were white as snow.
O heart of gold, grown suddenly cold,
	It was not time to go.
			Harper's Weekly.


THE DEACON’S SON.

THE Deacon and his son Bill,
   Live on a farm down East.
Each, had the others ill will
   It seemed, for life time leased.
Somehow, they never could agree,
   To please both, you dar’nt please one.
Some grieved and wondered why,
   Others said, he’s a Deacon’s Son.

Bill was queer from the first.
   The older he got, the queerer he grew,
When most boys were at home,
   He was somewhere, nobody knew,
But me, and I dar’nt tell
   The stern, old Deacon his father,
He had gone to visit the widow, 
   Just to save the Deacon the bother.

A kind heart had he, and a will
   That was never known to weaken.
When others were gone, he stayed home,
   And took care of the Deacon.
Tilled the farm like an old man,
   Fed the young that had no mother;
But when the father loved the widow,
	The son would love no other.

One day—Bill was happy then,
   He found the Deacon smiling and said,
With dignity rare in one so young,
   Father, she’s my choice. May we wed?
The Deacon suddenly grew tall, and 
   Looked as if his life’s work was done,
Then answering in withering tones
   Said: “No he’s a Deacon’s son.’
					MRS. L. S. DICKINSON,


NOTES AND NEWS.

	May Wright Sewall is compiling an article
for a syndicate of papers on "The President's
Home."
	The Indian exhibit at the World's Fair
will include representatives of every tribe
from the extreme north to Terra del Fuego.
	Sarah Janette Duncan, the Countess Nor-
raikow, Frances Harrison, Sophie Almon-
Hensley and Mrs. Sarah Curzon are dis-


tinguishedCanadian newspaper women who
have made their mark. 
	Laura Sedgwick Collins, the talented
Lyceum entertainer, is called by critics the
Mrs. Scot-Siddons of America. She has a
composite frame. She is a scholar. She is
a writer. She is a musician. She is a
beautiful woman.
	MISS SOPHIA C. HAYDEN has been call-
ed to Chicago to furnish designs and dimen-
sions of the Woman’s Building, of which
she is the architect, for the information of
those women throughout the country who
desire to furnish certain parts which are to
be ready for placing in the building before
they are presented. Miss Hayden expects
to be able to have these designs and dimen-
sions ready to send out by the last of the
present month.
	REV. CAROLINE J. BARTLETT writes to
the Kalamazoo, Mich., Telegraph, that she
has been taking part in English politics,
making her first political speech in a foreign
land Accompanying her friend, Miss Flor-
ence Balgarnie, to a workingmen’s meeting
in North London, at which the latter was
to speak, Miss Bartlett was also introduced
to the audience, composed of hundreds of
workingmen, who listened “with their hats
off.” Miss Bartlett also describes a short
interview with Justin McCarthy, the Irish
leader.
	Mrs. Potter Palmer, President of the
Board of Lady Managers, who has recently
returned from a European tour, reports that
the women of Europe, particularly of
Great Britain, France, Germany and Bel-
gium, are deeply interested in the World’s
Fair, and are working hard to make the
womans’s branch of it a splendid success.
The women’s commissions, which have
been formed in these countries, include
many of the most distinguished and honor-
ed women known at court. The outlook
is most promising for a great exhibit of
women’s industrial, educational and chari-
table work, from both this country and
from abroad.


CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS
N. A. W. S. A.

[To the Officers and Members of the N. A.
W. S. A.]
	As the time is drawing near for our next
annual meeting, I earnestly call your at-
tention to the following article of our Con-
stitution, and ask that if you have any
ammendment to propose you will send them
at once to me, that they may be published
in good season in the suffrage papers, as re-
quired.
	ARTICLE V. This Constitution may be
amended by a two-thirds vote at any annual
meeting, after one day's notice in the Con-
vention, notice of the proposed amendment
having been given to the business committee
not less than three months in advance, and
by them published in the suffrage papers.
	I will gladly send a copy of the Constitu-
tion to any one wishing it.
			RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
				Cor. Sec. N. A. W. S. A.
	Somerton, Philadelphia.


I have no fear that men will be less
manly or women less womanly when they
meet on terms of equality before the law.—
John G. Whittier.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,
second gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	OCTOBER 1, 1892.


CONFERENCE NOTICE.

	THE Sixty-third Semi annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will 
convene in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, at
10 o'clock on Thursday morning, October 6th,
1892.
	The officers and members of the Church gen-
erally are cordially invited to attend the meetings
of the conference.
				WILFORD WOODRUFF,
				GEORGE Q. CANNON,
				JOSEPH F. SMITH.
							First Presidency.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE general semi-annual conference of the Re-
lief Society will be held in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall in this city on Monday, October 10,
1892, meetings commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.
Officers and members of this organization from all
the several Stakes of Zion are most cordially in-
vited to attend these meetings, as there will be
important business pertaining to the Relief
Society brought before the conference.
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG, Pres.
			JANE S RICHARDS,
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
				Counselors.


PRIMARY OFFICERS MEETING.

	There will be a meeting of the officers of the
Primary, Association held at the residence of C.
B. Felt, 155 North Main St. Thursday Oct. 6, at
7 p. m. Representatives from each of the Stakes
of Zion are requested to be present.

		PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

	The Third General Conference of the Primary
Association will be held in the Assembly Hall in
this City, Oct. 7, at 7 p. m.
	All interested in the Primary work are cordially
invited to attend.
				LOUIE B. FELT, President.
				LILLIE FREEZE,
				CLARA C. CANNON,
								Counselors.
				MAY ANDERSON, Secretary.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THERE will very likely be a meeting called of
the Utah Woman’s Press Club while Conference
visitors are in the City.
	WE must apologize for not giving in this issue
the article on mines and disturbances in Northern
Idaho, particularly describing our interesting
visit to the Gem mine. There are so many local


affairs to be mentioned that things of less im-
portance must wait.

	THE Territorial Fair to be held in this City the
present month promises to be the most varied in
kind and mammoth in proportion of any that has
preceded it. It ought to be in view of the repre-
sentation expected for the World’s Fair in ’93.
Certainly the management is in good hands and
the people are right in expecting the best results
of the enterprise. It opens on Tuesday October
4th.
	TME W. S. A. Ter. Convention will be held in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms in this City
Wednesday Oct. 5,—begining with an Executive
session in the morning. Delegates are expected
from all parts of the Territory and the President
Mrs. S. M. Kimball and an Ex. Com. are prepar-
ing an attractive programme of exercises. In the
evening a reception for the Association delegates
and friends will be held at the residence of Mrs.
Phebe Y. Beattie, Ch. Ex. Com., at 55 N. West
Temple—elaborate preparations are being made
and suitable decorations will be a feature of the
reception.


UTAH WOLD'S FAIR COMMISSION.

	The following letter will explain itself and it is
ardently hoped that the ladies of Utah will avail
themselves of this opportunity to show their in-
terest in the matter.—ED.

Mrs. E. B. Wells,
	President Board of Lady Managers, Salt Lake
		County.
	DEAR MADAM:—The floral emblem for Utah
will be balloted for at the coming Territorial Fair
in October. The Board of Lady Managers have
selected the following flowers as candidates, Sego
Lily, Yellow Primrose, Indian Paint Brush, Wild
Rose, and Marguerite. Please notify the Ladies
of your county so that all who attend the Fair in
Salt Lake City, may cast a ballot for their favorite
flower. All who do not attend the Fair may send
their ballot by Postal Card. The polls will be
open until the 25th of October. Let us impress
upon you the fact that notice of this, should be
immediately, and widely spread, and all ladies
should cast a ballot for our emblem, in order to
show their interest in Utah and her exhibit, at the
World's Columbian Exposition.
		Yours Respectfully,
			MAY PRESTON, Secretary.


WORLD'S FAIR WORK.

		S. L. COUNTY LADIES ORGANIZED.

	AT a meeting of ladies held in the Social Hall
in this City, Monday Sept. 26, at 2 p. m. an or-
ganization for Salt Lake County was effected.
There were on the platform the two Lady Com-
missioners for Utah,Mrs.Margaret B. Salisbury and
Mrs. Whalen, also Miss Keogh, Alternate and the
President of the Ter. Board of Lady Managers for
Utah, Mrs. F. S. Richards and Mrs. C. W. Lyman,
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. James B. Boggs,
Mrs. George Y. Wallace and other representative
women of the Territory. Mrs. E. B. Wells Presi-
dent of S. L. Co., having previously been elected
by the Ter. Board acted as Chairman, Mrs. May
E. Talmage was appointed Sec. pro tem and read
the call, also the minutes of a meeting held in the
Templeton Hotel, Sept. 10, for a similar purpose.
	Some explanations having been made the busi-
ness of electing officers was proceeded with.
Mrs. G o. Y. Wallace was elected First Vice Pres.
Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Second Vice Pres Mrs.
Bertha Bamberger Treas. Mrs. Margaret A.
Caine Sec. Board of Directors as follows: Mrs.


Amelia Folsom Young, Mrs. James B. Boggs,
Mrs. E. C. Clawson, Mrs. C. E. Allen, Mrs. Grace
Young, Mrs. J. C. Royle, Mrs. Nettie Y. Snell,
Mrs. A. K. Smith, Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck, Mrs.
Ferdinard Fabian of this City, Mrs. Elizabeth
Howard, Big Cotton Wood, Mrs. Maria Holt,
South Jordan; Mrs. C. C. Goodwin, Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs, Elizabeth Pixton, Taylorsville; Mrs.
Hattie Hooper Young, Miss Emma McCornick,
Mrs. W. W. Riter, Mrs. Wendell Benson, also of
this City; Mrs. H. P. Kendall, Camp Douglas.
	During the afternoon short and appropriate
speeches were made by Mrs. Zina D. H. Young,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
and Mrs. F. S. Richards. The speakers alluded
to the early days in Utah and expressed an
earnest wish for a creditable representation at
the Columbian Exposition in 1893. Mrs. Whalen
of Ogden greeted the audience pleasantly and in-
vited all the ladies to attend an important meet-
ing to be held in Ogden on Saturday, Oct. 1st.


DELSARTE AND FDUCATION.

	MISS Maud May Babcock B. E. who has re-
cently come to teach in this City and has been en-
gaged by the Faculty of the Utah University is
certainly a very pleasing and attractive person as
well as an accomp ished elecutionist and teacher
of Delsarte.
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates met Miss Babcock last 
summer at Harvard, and was instrumental in
securing her services for Utah during the fall and
winter months, though she is under engagement
to teach at Harvard again next summer. She
has already taught at that university two years.
	The young lady comes with, most excellent
references, and these with the impressions she
makes personally are a sufficient guarantee of
her winning favor and achieving success.
	The notices in leading papers of New York and
other cities are very emphatic in praise of her
recitations and readings of the most difficult
pieces, tragic, dramatic lyric and sensational.
	Miss Babcock graduated from the National
School of Oratory of Philadelphia with honors
receiving the degree of Bachelor of Elocution;
and has since made a study of Delsarte Expres-
sion and Shakespeare under the best exponents
of these branches in New York and Boston.
	Miss Babcock in teaching physical culture fol-
lows the methods of Franklin Sargent of New
York City who has a theatre and Lyceum com-
bined at Berkley New York.


EDMUND RUSSELL AND DELSARTE.
EDMUND RUSSELR has been in this City over
six weeks, and during that time has familiarized
himself tolerably well with the City and its sur-
roundings,as well as the people taken as a whole,
and a few in particular. He has given several
lectures in courses and in classes, and has really
been over-crowded with work for the time being.
Very busy people like the writer have not had
the privilege of hearing many of his talks or
lessons, but we have heard one course of three
lectures, that we enjoyed very much indeed, and
from which we gleaned much valuable informa-
tion that we hope to apply in doing good, if only
in self-development. And really one cannot im-
prove one’s self without benefitting others.
	There is so much more in Delsarte methods
than one could possibly believe before coming in
actual contact with the work, or having it ex-
plained in the pains-taking way in which Mr.
Russell has been kind enough to give it.
	One hears of Delsarte as of a great artist,
painter or scientist, without realizing that the art
he made a life-time study had methods, rules and
practises that would apply to every individual all
along the lines of lifework.


The first lecture of the course we attended was 
of Delsarte himself, his life and work, and was
one of the most interesting sketches we have
ever had the pleasure of hearing.  This lecture
of itself would it seems to us give any one a de-
sire to know more of the fine art of expression in
life, and the happiness to be attained through the
best and highest development of the physical as
well as the mental, moral and spiritual which is
so sought after by many; how to reach this
standard of excellence is just beginning to be
understood by a few.  Light has come into the 
world and is increasing, if there is any good
thing or true principle that some of us have not yet
reached, by all means let us avail ourselves of any
opportunity to possess it that is open to us, and 
make it applicable, useful and beneficial.  Del-
sarte is said to be “a cure for nervousness,” then
by all means American women, should make it a 
study; and it might add much to their power for
good, and certainly to their influence at home
and elsewhere.
	To most women the home is the one place
where they desire to be appreciated and under-
stood, and how very often, they spoil everything
by that nervousness that is so common in women
of fine-strung, or as is often said, high-strung
temperament: and misunderstandings arise so fre-
quently and are attributed to being “out of sorts”
that if there is an art or a study that will heal or
help this malady; no time should be lost in get-
ting at work. “To be healthy is to be happy,” is
an old familiar saying, and much does depend
upon health, and if the Delsarte methods tend to 
an improvement in this direction to a fine
physique, the building up of the constitution, or
human body as a whole, then indeed should we
hail with gladness such a heaven-sent boon.
	The prolongation of human life with all one’s
faculties sound and good is one of the objects
that this people called Latter-day Saints have
sought to achieve; there is no doubt that correct
rules of living, such as are given in the “Word of
Wisdom,” would do much towards accomplish-
ing the results sought for; how few comparatively
observe these requirements, the fact is, all want
the blessing, without the effort.
	It is true as Mr. Russell says, we are not likely
to receive benefit, without doing as well as hear-
ing.
	Many who have attended series of lectures,
lessons and talks have testified to the great ad-
vantages they have derived from Mr. Russell’s
suggestions and instruction; and would be glad
to avail themselves of further opportunities under
his teaching. He goes to San Francisco from
here and will be given a reception by the Century
Club of that City October 5th.  He has letters of 
introduction to leading ladies and gentlemen
there that ensure for him a welcome, and with
the wealth and prestige of that great City, there
will be a wider opportunity for success in his 
profession, yet we doubt if there will be a higher
appreciation of his talents and his work in
Delsarte.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿WOMAN'S WORK ON THE SANDWICH
ISLANDS.

	PERHAPS some who have an idea that the mis-
sionary sisters of these Islands have one con-
tinual summer's holiday in "Gathering up the
shells from the sea shore," and in searching
pretty ferns from the Gulches, and gathering
curiosities of different kinds for themselves and
their dear friends at home, may be interested in
learning just how we do spend our time, and
what our object in view is. Then if any of us re-
turn not as well supplied with the above men-
tioned desirables, be not disappointed dear
friends. For we realize that there is much to be
done here among the women of this nation and
we are trying to teach them both by precept and

[Column 2]

example the great work there is for women in
this age of the world. Our harvest is great and
the laborers are few, and the returns of our toil
seem slow though our faith is strong in the be-
lief that if "we cast our bread upon the water
after many days it shall return."
	We have gained a testimony for ourselves that
in the performance of duty, be that duty what it
may, there is joy, satisfaction and contentment of
spirit, and that the neglect of duty brings the re-
verse. Eight months ago we formed ourselves
in a school of the missionary sisters, eight in
number and have since that time held regular
weekly meetings, studying the principles of the
Gospel, and other subjects pertaining to the ad-
vancement of woman. We have also observed
certain by-laws which have governed satis-
factorily our labors both temporally and spiritu-
ally, and each of the sisters has expressed the
pleasure she takes in the performance of her
labors and of the unity existing between us. On
the 6th of July last at the anniversary of the or-
ganization of the Relief Society of this branch, a
special meeting was held in which missionary
sisters were selected to visit the adjacent Islands
assisted hy a native sister; which appointment
we willingly accepted, trusting that God would
make us equal to the task before us and fit the
back for the burden. Some may have doubted
the prudence in sending women to travel unas-
sisted by an Elder over such roads as there are
upon these Islands, but as that was out of the
question, they having been several months at
their respective fields of labor, we were willing to
prove that while woman is necessitated in depend-
ing upon man for much, she is not dependent for
her energy and courage.
	Sister Katties Hottendorf assisted by Kealalina
was appointed to the Island of Kanai and sailed
from Honolulu July 25th. The remainder of us
were detained till the 9th of August when we
boarded the comfortable, clean Kinau for our re-
spestive islands. The day was calm and pre-
sented a favorable appearance for a pleasant
voyage, and we had sailed nearly an hour with-
out being sick, and were about to think we were
going to escape that dreaded malady, when an
Officer remarked, "That little cloud yonder will
soon make you feel more uncomfortable than you
do now," which proved to be true, for strong
winds and high swells, caused the Kinau to toss
herself recklessly from billow to billow, regard-
less of her precious freight, and we were forced
to become tributaries to the mighty Pacific. The
sight from the ocean, of Honolulu to Diamond-
head as the land fades in the distance to be seen
once is always to be remembered. The peculiar
formation of the once active craters of "Punch-
bowl" and "Diamondhead" now covered with
beautiful tropical vegetation surrounded by the
modern improvements of civilzation present a
picture that would take space to describe.
	Our first stopping place was at Maui, and we
rouse ourselves to see where we are, and there
is Lahaina sleeping in the shadow of her mighty
mountain. The white caps of the rolling deep
flashed back the light of the full clear moon.
The air had a tropical langour, the boats are
lowered mid confusion and splashing of oars, to
take passengers and freight ashore. Here we
are surprised in meeting with Brother Duffin who
had come aboard to meet his wife and accom-
pany her to her place of appointment, they de-
cided to go over to the next bay, about fifteen
miles, as horses cannot be obtained here for
traveling. So it is up anchor and away through
the moonlight over the rolling deep to Maalaca
bay where we bid "Aloha nui" to Brother and
Sister Duffin, and Napohuelua her assistant, and
then on to Makena where the surf breaks on
barren rocks under the great dome of "Haleaka-
la," here the channel had the appearance of a
wild rushing river and it was hard to imagine we

[Column 3]

were at sea. My room companion expressed
her fears in landing saying she was once lost in
this bay early in the evening and had no hopes of
seeing land again, but daylight brought to her
troubled mind relief.
	Makena bay is left and we reach the nearest 
point of Hawaii, "Mahukona," by 8 o'clock in
the morning, here our patience is tried by a long
stay, in the strong hot wind blowing off shore,
but the sight of the domes of the three moun-
tains, "Hualalai" "Mamakea" and "Manna Loa,"
together with the encircling mountains of Maui,
and the island of Molokai in the distance
furnish a study for the mind and relieves the
monotony.
	We stop at Kawaikae and Upolo, then go back
on our way to Hilo. The entire scene is one of
varying beauty beginning with the cane fields of
Kahala which stretch their sea of green almost
to the edge of the red cliffs, and here number-
less spots walled in by rock fences designating
the homes of the ancient Hawaiian, and the im-
mense population that must have existed on that
apparent barren land.
	We pass the Waimanu bluffs which extend in
one long blue sweep from the inland hights until
it makes its tremendous 1600 foot leap into the
surf. At Laupahochoc the fresh land breeze
comes across the water bringing with it odors of
ferns and woodland vegetation; here a tramway
extends from the surf abruptly to the top of the
cliff on which all imports and exports are taken
to the Plantation above. The village is pretty
and unlike any other we have passed in occupy-
ing a small basin between two immense moun-
tains. Two hours after leaving here we are for
the first time since leaving Honolulu in a calm
sea and to our joy are at our destination at Hilo
bay.
	Though it is half past 2 o'clock Thursday
morning, making a thirty-six hour sea voyage,
and though strangers in a strange land we are
glad to put our feet once more on land, and our
company three in number took a special boat,
with the rest of the "Reverends" as we were
honorably titled, to shore, where for a short time
there seemed to be considerably excitement
among the natives over our arrival, many saying
it was the first time they had seen a Missionary
Sister of our Church.
			LIBBIE NOAL.
	[To be continued].


SOLUTION OF THE LABOR PROBLEM.
	THE Carnegie troubles with the laboring men
have brought the labor problem to the front in
the minds of all. The only solution lies in the
divinely given Golden Rule "As ye would that
men should do to you, do ye also unto them"
This has been strikingly illustrated by the
millionaire merchant prince and Evangelist Mr.
Charles N. Crittenton, who has taken into
partnership five of the heads of departments in
his great wholesale house in New York, pro-
nounced by the New York Times "probably the
largest in the world." The New York press is
full of praise for this notable deed. The New
York Herald says: "On its face the transaction
was simply the reorganization of the house of
Charles N. Crittenton as an incorporated com-
pany."
	As a matter of fact it was a voluntary sur-
render by Mr. Crittenton of a considerable in-
terest in his very prosperous business to five of
his old employes. Many employers have adopted
one means or another of making their employes
sharers in the profits of their business and there-
by securing their hearty co-operation. But the
voluntary transfer by a man of large means of a
large interest in his business to his employes
without the payment of a penny, is unique.


Edward G. Wells, Third Vice-President of the
company says: "It is capitalized at $800,000, Mr.
Crittenton having turned into it every dollar’s
worth of assets of the house of Charles N. Crit-
tenton, of which he was the sole owner.  The
stock is all taken, being held by Mr. Crittenton.
Messrs. Alfred B. Kennedy, William A. Demarst,
Franklin B. Waterman, Thomas E. Delano and
myself.  Mr. Crittenton is President of the com-
pany. 
	"All of the men who have been taken into the
company are old employes, the youngest of the 
five in point of service being myself with a record
of thirteen years in Mr. Crittenton’s employ. Mr.
Kennedy, who is the buyer for the house, has
served twenty-six years, Mr. Demarst, the head
of the retail department, twenty years; Mr.
Delano, the general manager, twenty-eight years,
and Mr. Waterman who runs our advertising de-
partment, sixteen years. Others may be taken in.
	"I presume that we were selected on account
of our long service and thorough familiarity with
every detail of the business of the house, but I
should not be surprised if some other old em-
ployes were taken into the company later."
	Mr. Crittenton is himself devoting his entire
time to Evangelistic work and his fortune to
founding Florence Crittenton Missions for the
rescue of erring girls. The story of their found-
ing touches all hearts to tenderness and all eyes 
to tears.  A few years since his little four-year-
old Florence on her dying bed pleaded "Papa
sing 'The Sweet Bye and Bye.' With choking
voice and breaking heart her father sang the
beautiful words and her beloved spirit floated
heavenward on the wings of song. Though the
Bye and Bye might be sweet, the present without
his darling seemed so overwhelmingly dreary,
that he did not care to live.  But in his sorrow
the Savior who had taken the little child in His
bosom, brought comfort to his bleeding heart and
he found strangely true the words of Christ "My
peace I give unto you."
	Then he began to prove that he was indeed a
follower of the lowly Nazarene who forever dig-
nified labor by being Himself a carpenter, who
in the midst of his toil uttered these royal words
which would forever settle all strife between 
capital and labor, "By this shall all men know
that ye are my disciples if ye have love one to
another."
	Mr. Crittenton was so full of love that he went
down into the slums and helped to uplift the
fallen, and one night when he was pleading with
a poor erring girl to leave her life of shame, he
said in the words of Christ, "Neither do I con-
demn thee, go and sin no more." Through her
tears she said, "Where can I go?  Quick as a
flash came the thought "Where can she go?”
scarce a door save a door of sin is open to her
and then and there he determined as a memorial
to his own little Florence to found a home where
other father’s little girls lost in the whirlpool of
shame, might be rescued and restored to a life of
virtue.  So at 21-23 Bleeker St. New York, nine
years ago was opened the First Florence Critten-
ton Mission, a large double four-story house
where food and shelter and clothing and a home
are freely given, and under the influence of
Mother Prindle the W. C. T. U. Matron, hun-
dreds become Christian women.  Over five hun-
dred girls annually find a home here and three-
fourths of them are redeemed.
	Mr. Crittenton has also established Florence
Crittenton Missions in New Brunswick, N. J.,
San Jose, Sacramento, Los Angeles and San
Francisco, California.  The latter was formerly
known as "The Pacific Rescue Home," success-
fully carried on by a number of philanthropic
people, but since Mr. Crittenton has become its
President the name of his darling child has been
given to it.
	These Missions represent an investment of
[Column 2]
nearly a million dollars, while his private charit-
ies foot up nearly as much more.  It is the dream
of his life to found a Florence Crittenton Mission
in every large city in America and Europe, and
plans to that end are made with the Woman’s
Christian Temperance Union, under the leader-
ship of Miss Frances E. Willard and Lady Henry
Somerset.
	As an Evangelist Mr. Crittenton is wonderfully
blessed of God, thousands having started heaven-
ward under his loving ministrations.  He gives
his services freely, and though himself an Episco-
palian, being an officer of Holy Trinity Church,
Harlem New York, he is perfectly at home in
pulpits of all denominations, where he is warmly
welcomed by th- pastors  Perhaps the one dis-
tinguishing characteristic is the universal love he
inspires in all hearts, which make many think as
a little child said, "Mamma, don’t you think Jesus
when he was on earth must have been like Mr.
Crittenton?"
			W. G. C. EDHOLM,
				Supt. Press, World's W. C. T. U.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A TRIP TO BANNOCK STAKE.

	ON Friday morning August 12, accom-
panied by Sister Lillie Freeze I left Salt
Lake City to visit the sisters in Bannock
Stake. We left on the 10.5 a. m. train for
Idaho Falls. We had a very pleasant visit
wtth Brothers John Henry Smith and C. C.
Card who were going to attend the Bannock
Stake quarterly conference. On arriving at
Idaho Falls about seven o'clock we found
President Ricks with a carriage waiting our
arrival; and were soon on our way for
Lewsville, a distance of sixteen miles, ar-
riving at ten o'clock very tired and dusty.
We were kindly received by Brother Miller
and wife with whom we remained the next
three days. Saturday morning (13th) at
ten o'clock we met with the Primary Asso-
ciation and after I had made a few remarks
to the children, Sister Freeze addressed
them and took an active part in their ex-
ercises which was very educational to the
children.
	At 2 p. m. we met with the Relief Society
(Sister Jardine President), and the Young
Ladies. We instructed the sisters on the 
importance of the organization of the Relief
Society and their duties as wives and
mothers, Sister Freeze spoke to the young
people in a very interesting manner, exhort-
ing them to live pure lives, and be Latter-
day Saints in all their associating together.
	Sister Freeze is well qualified to instruct
the young people of Zion.
	Sunday morning, 14th, at 10 o'clock the
Stake Conference commenced. The house
was filled to overflowing, people coming
from 12 to 25 miles with their families to at-
tend the meeting. Much valuable instruc-
tion was given by the brethren; a good
spirit prevailed in all the gatherings of the
saints.
	President Ricks invited the visiting
sisters to occupy the stand on Sunday even-
ing, we consented; the house was literally
crammed, the brethren were present in large
numbers and we felt encouraged by their
presence. We had an excellent time to-
gether. Attended conference the next day
Monday, 15th, at four p. m., after the meet-
ing closed we started for Rexburg, distant
sixteen miles, arriving about sundown.
The writer was hospitablly entertained by
Patriarch Arza Hinckley and family, Sister
Hinckley is the Stake President of the Relief
Society. Tuesday, 16th, we started again
at nine o'clock for Parker Ward, where

[Column 2]

meeting was held at two o'clock, the house
was filled with the people from Egin and
other wards.
	Sister Winters drove her own conveyance
and brought a load of the sisters from Rex-
burg returning the same evening traveling
twenty-five miles as well as fording Snake
River twice. I forgot to mention our hav-
ing to ferry over Snake River on our way
from Lewisville to Rexburg which detained
us a while on our journey. The meeting
was a spirited one the sisters being urged to
a more fatthful discharge of their important
duties in the organizations. They were all
glad to meet and shake hands with us. Our
company spent the night with Bishop
Parker and family, who did all they could
to make us comfortable. Sister Parker
went into the garden and picked fresh ras-
berries for our supper which was a great
treat in that far off Northern country;
Brother and Sister Parker were old friends
of ours and we enjoyed ourselves very much
	Wednesday, 17th, drove to Willford, dist-
ance six miles, ate dinner with Sister Pratt,
President of the Relief Society, held meet-
ing at two p. m., another full house, the
visiting sister and President Ricks occup-
ied the time. At 4 o'clock started for Rex-
burg a ride of ten miles where we met (in
the evening) with the Young Men and
Young Ladies in their conjoint meeting; a
full attendance; a good spirit prevailed,
much good instruction and counsel was
given; we met old friends and made many
new ones. Thursday, 18th, met with the
Relief Society again, the house was filled;
it being the first visit that the sisters from
the city had made, all seemed anxious to
hear their teachings. The choir came to all
our meetings their lively singing adding
much to the spirit of the meeting, we had
an excellent time together which will be
long remembered by all present. Sister
Freeze met with the children; a great many
bright children were present, and were well
behaved. Sister Freeze in her happy man-
ner interested them about an hour. At
5 p. m. we were on our way to Menan,
arriving at sundown, eighteen miles ride.
Stayed all night with Bishop Stephen's family.
	Friday, 19th, were again on the move at
eight a. m. traveled twenty-five miles, ar-
riving at Iona about noon, held meeting at
2 o'clock with the Relief Society also Pri-
mary Association.
	I was astonished at the extent of country
and the quantity of water everywhere.
Such large canals which extended for miles,
I asked President Ricks if he could give me
an estimate of the length of the canals. He
said there were two thousand miles of
ditches and canals. We rode through miles
of beautiful wheat and other grain, fenced
on either side which was wonderful, when
we were told that all the work had been
done in such a short space of time; it being
only nine years since the first houses were
built.
	At about 5 o'clock we started for Idaho
Falls arriving safely at 6:30, distance from
Iona seven miles. Met with the Relief
Society at eight; again a full house, people
coming from fifteen to twenty miles to at-
tend the meeting. Mothers with children
in their arms knowing it would take them
till midnight to ride home.
	A Primary was organized after the meet-
ing. This ended our labors in the Bannock
Stake. We spent a very pleasant evening
at Bishop Thomas's; with President Ricks
and wife also Counselor Steele. At 12.30


we left for the depot; in fifteen minutes the
train came along; we shook hands with our
friends, stepped aboard the train and were
soon speeding on our homeward journey
arriving at nine o’clock in Salt Lake City
very tired yet thankful to our Heavenly
Father for his preserving care over us. We
had a pleasant but arduous trip, traveling
six hundred miles. Too much praise can-
not be given to President Ricks for his kind
fatherly care over us, in seeing that we
were comfortably provided for meeting us
at the train and traveling with us around
the Stake, and seeing us aboard the train
for our homeward journey. We shall never
forget our trip to the good folks of Bannock
Stake.
				M. Isabella Horne.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿EMPRESS FREDERIC AND WOMEN’S
		FEDERATION.

			PARIS, FRANCE, Oct. 20, 1892.
Editor Woman's Journal:
	In my last letter, written from Berlin, I
briefly characterized many of the interest-
ing associations composed of women, and
institutions founded by them, which I had
been privileged to visit. One fact concern-
ing them I reserved for this article, of
which it forms a necessary part.
	From the “Scheppeler Bette Verein” to
the “Volks’ Kuchen,” all of the societies
and works referred to are “Under the pro-
tection of Her Majesty, the Empress Fred-
erick.” It was some time before I realized
the full import of this phrase. In spite of
what I had long ago known of the activity
of the Empress, while yet Crown Princess,
in establishing courses of university lectures
for women, and in facilitating educational
opportunities for girls of all ranks, I still
unconsciously associated “Her Majesty’s
Protection” with the royal patronage which
bakers and brewers, tailors and milliners, in
all monarchical countries, are wont to use
as a trade-mark indicative of the superior
quality of their wares. But, when I found,
in the “Pestalozzi-Froebel House,” games
and studies presented by the Empress; and
in Frau Heyl’s wonderful cooking school a
case of phials from the royal hand, con-
taining the chemical constituents of the
common grains, vegetables, and fruits, pre-
sented by Her Majesty on one of her visits
of inspection; when I learned that the Prin-
cess Victoria was Frau Heyl’s first pupil in
the art of gardening; when I knew that
the Empress had recently inspected “Tan-
neck” (the country home where Fraulein
Crain lives with the “Pension” portion of
her pupils), and had gone from observatory
to dog-kennel in her survey of the premises;
when, in “The Victoria Training School
for Nurses,” I saw numerous evidences of
Her Majesty’s personal vigilance and sym-
pathy, I began to understand that the phrase
“Under the Protection of Her Majesty, the
Queen and Empress Frederick” was of vital
significance to all things to which it is ap-
plied; and, moreover, that it is a sure pledge
of noble motive and capable management
in the institutions enjoying it. Presently, I
discovered that most of the remarkable
group of women by whom I was welcomed
were members of what they constantly re-
ferred to as “The Empress’s Circle.” I
noted that the tone in which the “circle”
was mentioned by its members had an ac-
cent of proud, noble, modesty, but no hint
of boastful vanity. I found every member
of this “circle” to be a woman of serious
[Column 2]
purpose, engaged in some work whose mo-
tive lay outside of self. Every one of the
“circle” whom I met realized and deplored
the relative weakness consequent upon
isolating her own work from that of others,
and as we discussed the means of securing
a federation of forces for the common inter-
ests, one after another explained the ob-
stacle to such a union, always ending with
an expression of eager desire for it, and
with the statement: “The Empress Fred-
erick has always desired just such a feder-
ation, and if it can be accomplished at all
in Germany, it will be only through her in-
fluence.” Several of these leaders, each in
a personal interview, suggested my seek-
lng an audience with the Empress and un-
folding to her the ideas of the National and
International Councils of women and the
plans for the general World’s Congress of
Women at Chicago in ’93, with a view to
enlisting Her Majesty’s aid in securing for
this Congress a good delegation of German
women.
	It may be difficult to believe that the sug-
gestion was, at first, not agreeable; such,
however, is the fact. As a simple Ameri-
can woman, unfamiliar with the manners of
Empresses, possessing a tongue untrained
to the phraseology employed in addressing
imperial personages, I felt that I should be
quite out of place in a Queen’s audience
chamber. Deliberately to seek an inter-
view with the Empress, and thus to become
responsible for the impression produced in
the royal circle by the plans for the work of
the Congress Auxiliary of the Columbian
Exposition, was a role to which I felt un-
equal; and not until it had been pressed up-
on me as a duty by many deeply interested,
did I consent to ask for an audience. I re-
ceived a favorable response from Her
Majesty s chamberlain, and the audience
was set for Saturday, August 6. The sum-
mer residence of the Empress is at Hom-
burg, a watering place eleven miles north
of Frankfort-on-the-Main. The Schloss is
an interesting building, formerly the resi-
dence of the Electors. It was once occu-
pied by the daughter of George III., who
married a German prince, and like most
European castles it is clothed with historic
reminiscences. After traversing numerous
courts and corridors, we reached an ante-
chamber where we were received by the
Countess Perponcher, chief lady in waiting
of Her Majesty. After a few minutes con-
versation, which showed her to be conver-
sant with the object of my visit, the Countess
conducted me to an interior apartment where
Her Majesty presently appeared, the Coun-
tess at the same time quitting the chamber.
	In a moment the gracious cordiality of
Her Majesty’s welcome gave me the ease
of an accustomed guest, and in the more
than an hour that the Empress kindly de-
tained me, my mind was fully occupied with
the subjects before us, viz. : the condition
of the women of different countries, par-
ticularly of those of Germany and the
United States, as respects opportunities for
education, for employment, and for the ex-
ercise of personal liberty, and the best
methods of securing on the Committee of
Honor for the Congress of ,93 the German
names that would carry most weight at
home and abroad, and be truly representa-
tive of the best that Germany has attained,
so far as its women are concerned. As, in
reply to Her Majesty’s searching questions,
the complete outline of the plans for this
Congress was revealed to her, she expressed
the warmest approval, and her strong de-
[Column 3]
sire that Germany should send worthy dele- 
gates who can gather as well as give, and 
bring back for home use an enlarged com-
prehension of the significance of “the wo-
man movement,” and new enthusiasm for
its advancement. Her Majesty was also
deeply sympathetic with the ideas that un-
derlie the organizations of the National and
International Councils, and the urging the
usefulness of their application to societies
of local scope. She talked freely of her 
own efforts to federate the different societies
and institutions organized by the women of
Berlin through the “circle” of which I
had learned so much in that City, and to
which I have above referred as “The Em-
press’s circle.” During the winter it is the
habit of the Empress to invite the mem-
bers of the Circle” to take tea with her
once or twice a month. On these occasions
each one (who, as I have before intimated
is the working head of some institution or
society enjoying the Empress’s protection)
reports the state of her own work. All ad-
vise together, and endeavor to make their
works mutually supplementary. The Em-
press spoke of their little meetings as if they
were a source of great pleasure to herself,
told me some incidents to illustrate the help-
fulness of even such informal federation of
interests, and expressed the strongest desire
to see such a federation take national pro-
portions under permanent, formal organi-
zations.
	The Empress deplored the present state
of unrest among the working people, and
protested strongly against the injustice of
those who attribute it to the fact that edu-
cation has been made accessible to the mass-
es, and hold liberal reformers responsible
for it. With the democratic conviction to
which one is accustomed in a republic, but 
which one does not expect from royal lips,
Her Majesty declared with emphasis: “It
is not too much education which produces
these revolts and outbreaks, among the
people everywhere, these strikes and dis-
sensions; not too much but too little edu-
cation is the trouble.” Her Majesty ex-
pressed the opinion that intellectual and in-
dustrial education should accompany each
other in all classes of schools for all classes of
people; that respect for useful things and for
the people who can produce them, together
with a desire to be useful, should be incul-
cated in every child; and that all systems
of education which ignore this part of 
their plain function fail on the side of
practical morals. In discussing industrial
education, the Empress Frederick can speak
with the authority of experience, for, as a 
child she was educated to habits of industry,
was instructed carefully in household arts,
and has worked all her life very perserver-
ingly in her studio; producing both sculp-
ture and paintings which indicate that, had
she not been born to other duties, she would
have been a professional artist. Moreover,
the leading industrial and technical schools,
for girls in Berlin have been founded under
Her Majesty’s protection, and she, with the
Emperor Frederick, was active in the es-
tablishment of the “Kunst Gewerbe” 
museum.
	When I explained that the “General
World’s Congress of Women” would be
divided into several departments, and that
it would be the aim of the committee
charged with preparing the programme to
secure from the delegates of each country
a report that would give both the history
of the progress of women in their respec-
tive countries and their present status in


respect to the subject considered—the Em-
press expressed the most cordial interest,
spoke of the vast help that the published re-
ports of this Congress will afford to students
of social economy everywhere, and said
that they will, indeed, be a cyclopoediea of
all phases of progress that affect woman's
life.
Several times Her Majesty said, "I would
go to Chicago myself, I would attend this
Congress, were I not such a bad sailor."
Repeatedly expressing her desire that Ger-
many be well represented in the Congress,
she gave me the address Frau Minna Streck-
er, who has charge of the institutions
founded by the still universally mourned
Princess Alice, and urged me to see her. I
endeavored to do so, but the absence of
Frau Stricker from Darmstadt made it im-
possible for me to meet her, though her in-
terest in the Congress is assured.
Nothing certainly could be more gratify-
ing to American women, or more helpful
and gratifying to German women who in-
terest themselves in progressive movements,
than to have the Empress Frederick accept
the protectorate of the German committee
and delegation in the Congress of '93, if
circumstances permit her to do so.
Requesting to be kept informed of the
plans as they mature, and making valuable
suggestions, which I trust may be executed,
Her Majesty terminated an audience which, 
instead of proving an ordeal, was to me the
most interesting experience of a summer
which has been full of vivid enjoyments.
The Empress talked on many subjects
only indirectly connected with that reported
here. Her manner was characterized by
uncommon simplicity and frankness. I
left Homburg with the consciousness that I
had been in the presence of a truly royal
mind; of a mind accustomed to originate
and to contemplate large views. I felt that
I had seen a woman who has taken life
seriously; who has developed her own
powers by the steady use of them; who has
warmed her heart not only in the glow of
that family affection which, inculcated in her
English home, ripened into an ideal domes-
tic life in Germany; but also in persistently
maintaining the wider human relations
which have made her a co-worker with
the noble women who are striving to
elevate the ideal of German womanhood,
and who look up to her as their revered
chief. 
The Empress contemplates a conception
of womanhood that may be universally ac-
cepted as the Ideal. As Her Majesty de-
veloped this idea somewhat, I was impress-
ed with her frank assumption of the oneness
of humanity, and with her aspiration to
further the recognition of the solidarity
of human interests. I left the castle with
the conviction, which has grown upon me
as I have recalled Her Majesty's questions
and utterances, that I had enjoyed an
audience with "the cleverest woman in
Europe," for this is the title often bestowed
on Victoria of Germany.
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Mary Goatman, who departed this life at Mendon
Utah, on Wednesday, July 6th, 1892, aged sixty-
seven years.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has in his in-
finite wisdom removed from our midst our be-
loved sister, and

[Column 2]

	Whereas, her faithful labors as a counselor in
the Relief Society, and a generous, and useful
member thereof, a beloved neighbor and com-
panion. Therefore be it
	Resolved, That we the officers and members of
the Mendon Ward Relief Society do mourn her
loss realizing that we have lost a noble sister
whose hand was ever ready to help the sick and
afflicted.
	Resolved, That we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathy to her bereaved family.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the records of the Relief Society, and 
a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			MARIA BAKER, President.
			MARY SONNE, Counselor.
			EMMA HUGHES, Ass't. Sec.

RHODA ANN FULLMER.
	Died at her daughter's residence in the 7th
Ward, Salt Lake City, at 2 a. m., August 18, 1892,
Rhoda Ann Fullmer, widow of the late David
Fullmer, and daughter of Zera and Rhoda Mar-
rion. Deceased was born in Union Township,
Luzern County, Pennyslvania, Feb. 12th, 1813.
Married Sept. 18th, 1831. Embraced the Gospel 
and was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, July 1836.
	She was a member of the first Relief Society
organized by the Prophet Joseph in Nauvoo, and
underwent many trials and privations with her
family and the Saints in that place. Emigrated
with the early settlers of Utah in the fall of 1850,
suffering many hardships with fortitude and
patience. Deceased was selected as Second
Counselor to Sister Hickenlooper who was Presi-
dent of first Relief Society in the 6th Ward of
this City.
	When the 5th and 6th Wards were connected,
she was chosen and set apart as President of both
Wards. In Sept. 1877, was again called to act
as President of the 6th Ward Relief Society (the 
two wards having been separated), which posi-
tion she held with honor and integrity up to the
time of her demise. Sister Fullmer was a true
Latter-day Saint, a kind and affectionate mother;
was the mother of eleven children, nine of whom
live to mourn her loss, besides many grandchild-
ren, and greatgrandchildren.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions of respect to Rhoda Ann Fullmer
who departed this life, having been our beloved 
President of the Relief Society, twenty-five years,
from 1867 to 1892. We her co-laborers in our
Relief Society meeting Sept. 1st, 1892, deem it
fitting that we record our appreciation of her
labors.
	Whereas in the providence of our Heavenly
Father we have been called to mourn the loss of
our beloved President and friend, who having led
a life worthy of imitation has been called home.
We desire to pay a tribute of respect to our
sister.
	Resolved that in behalf of the 6th Ward Relief
Society, we tender our sympathy to the bereaved
family, having lost a loving mother and friend.
We pray the divine healer of all sorrows to com-
fort and bless them and may that Spirit that
brings peace and consolation, be with them in
time of trouble.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family. Also entered upon the
Relief Society record and a copy be sent to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			ALICE BUTTERWORTH.
			ELLEN WATSON.
			ELIZABETH W. CONDIE.


[column one]
DOCTOR MATTIE HUGHES CANNON,
Office: II South, First West Street.
Office practice for Diseases of Women from 2 until 4 p. m.

[column two]
﻿Dr. Maggie C. Shipp
Will commence her Winter Class in Obstetrics
and Nursing on Monday, October 24.
Address: Dr. Shipp, 18 Main Street.
	Telephone 383

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 63 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Three doors west of Theatre.

MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her residence, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p. m.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash Hous
R.K.THOMAS

[Logo of Rio Grande Western Railway]
THE
Standard Gauge
RAILWAY!
THROUGH THE
ROCKY MOUNTAINS!
Choice of Three Distinct Routes,
AND THE
MOST MAGNIFICENT RAILROAD SCENERY
IN THE WORLD.
Two Fast Express Trains Daily
EACH WAY BETWEEN
OGDEN, SALT LAKE AND DENVER.
ELEGANT RECLINING CHAIR CARS!
Free of Charge.
Direct Connections made In Union Depots.
THE MOST THOROUGHLY EQUIPPED RAILWAY
IN THE WEST.
D.C. DODGE, A. E.WELBY, J.H. BENNETT,
Genl. Mgr. Supt. G.F. & P.A.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
AVD JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CIY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

