[Vol45 | December 1958 | Sequence: 09 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Crawford]
[Editorial: The 128th Semi-Annual Church Conference Vesta P. Crawford]
the editorial staff of the magazine Science (now combined with Scientific Monthly ) there are nine women. ME. GENEAL J. CONDON, of Salt Lake City, Utah, has attained an international reputation and won a gold medal at the International Flower Show at the New York Coliseum, for her method of preserving flowers indefinitely by using sand from the shores of the Great Salt Lake. [v* BAKER PRIEST'S autobiography Green Grows Ivy has recently been published by McGrawHill Book Company. It is the story of the girl born in a Utah mining camp who became 'Treasurer of the United States. Mrs. Priest relates her experiences as telephone operator, saleswoman, model, housewife, mother, civic worker, and Government official. The book is filled with the pervading influence of a deep and lasting love in family relationships, particularly emphasizing the role of Mrs. Priest's mother, Clara Fearnley Baker, in her daughter's lifetime happiness and success. Page 815 C-—> EDITORIAL c~© VOL. 


 NO. 12 She 128th Semi-Annual Church Conference HE 128th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the historic 'Tabernacle on 'Temple Square, Salt Lake City, Utah, October 10, 11, and 12, with our beloved President David O. McKay conducting all six sessions and the Priesthood meeting. 'Two of the General Authorities were absent. Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of the 'I'welve was touring the South African Mission, and Elder ElRay L. Christiansen, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, was visiting the European Missions. Four hundred Singing Mothers, from twenty-two stakes in Southern California, who had sung for the Relief Society Conference, under the direction of Florence Jepperson Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society, presented music for the Friday and Saturday sessions of General Conference, and on Sunday, the Tabernacle Choir, under the direction of Richard P. Condie, provided the music. Two new General Authorities were sustained as Assistants to the Council of the Twelve: Elder William J. Critchlow, former President of South Ogden Stake; and Elder Alvin R. Dyer, former President of the Central States Mission, and appointed in August 1958 as First Assistant in the General Superintendency of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. The assurance, comfort, and inspiration that result from conscienPage 816 tious adherence to the principles of the restored gospel were expressed as a theme by the speakers at the conference sessions. President David O. McKay, addressing the conference on Sunday morning, spoke of the duties and responsibilities of lay members of the Church in defending the gospel and exemplifying its principles in everyday living. I have in mind and in my heart the feeling that the religious influence, sincere religious influence in the heart, or the life of the individual, is the most refining influence in the world. God wants us here. His plan of redemption so far as we are concerned, is here, and we, my fellow workers in the Church of Christ, are carrying the responsibility of testifying to the world that God's truth has been revealed; that men and women can live in this world, free and uncontaminated from the sins thereof, following as nearly as humanly possible, Jesus.... Then the testimony of Jesus abides in the soul, and strength comes to each individual to withstand the evils of the world. President Stephen L_ Richards ascribed the perilous condition of the world as being largely due to ignorance of gospel principles and the lack of Chistian attitudes and behavior on the part of individuals. He spoke of the light that should "break forth among them that sit in darkness." That light, my brethren and sisters, has come to the world. It is the light of revelation, and through revelations has come the true interpretation of the EDITORIAL Christ, his mission, and his gospel. All men of all nations embraced within the family of the Eternal Father are entitled by his decree to receive the light and to receive an understanding of the true, revealed order of the kingdom of God The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, established under the direction of the Father and the Son, is the custodian of the revealed principles of the Restored Gospel and the authority to administer its ordinances under divine commission. Speaking of prayer as "the royal road between each of us and our Heavenly Father," President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Discussed the universal need for prayer. I think there is no common denominator for all the peoples of the world that can equal the desire to pray and the resulting prayers. Brethren and sisters, let us continue to be a praying people. Let us pray, keeping in mind some of the great principles involved therein. Let us go to our Heavenly Father for his advice, his counsel, his help. He will always answer if we are righteous in our asking, and if we are asking for righteous things that would be for our good and benefit. 817 The great foundation in one way of this Church is the doctrine of continuous revelation, continuous revelation to the individual, to the leaders of the Church, all for our good and benefit and for the advancement of his work. In giving a final blessing to the saints assembled in the Tabernacle and to the saints all over the world, President McKay spoke of his appreciation for the General Authorities and the devotion of all of them and their families to the Church. "God bless Zion, the pure in heart," he said. God bless our friends with whom we associate, who are contributing, too, to the advancement of this great Church. We appreciate their fellowship. God bless those who speak evil against us because they do not know us, and give us charity in our hearts for them, and may He enlighten their minds and open the vision of their souls that they may see Christ's Church as it is and that for which it stands. Hasten the coming of our Lord, when peace shall reign and the kingdom of God be established, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. —V. P. C. <> No Lack of Miracle Maude Rubin Here everything is green—the waves, the grass— Green sickles move on eucalyptus trees Cutting the heavy fragrance. Palm trees mass These sun-baked western hills. No need to freeze Red mittened fingers gathering boughs; long-lost That morning sparkle of the fern-leafed frost. Oh, lovelier than greenness, time propels My thoughts on slender tracks of silver sound; The smell of pine and spice and fruity cakes; The mystery of Christmas-coming-round, Instead of all this growingness that makes The winter into spring. Oh, may they feel No lack of miracle, of holy light, These bright-eved children, when at last they kneel To pray for blessings on this sacred night. And teach my truant thoughts to stop and 'know That little Jesus never played in snow. Be Honest with Yourself NO, THANK YOU! How should you answer the person who invites you to "take a cigarette" or "have a drink" — or do anything which is against your conscience or contrary to the teachings of your Heavenly Father? What should you say? How much do you need to explain or apologize? When, if ever, should you compromise just a little for the sake of appearances? The answer is easy. Just say "No—no, thank you." Don't waver. Don't Page 818 BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF 819 worry about how others may think or act. Be your own natural, honest self. Everyone admires sincerity. If the invitation to indulge in something you don't believe in comes from a host or hostess while you are a guest, your answer will come even easier. The obligation of courtesy is not that of the guest but of the host. The gracious host will never press you, never question your right to be yourself in matters of conscience. He will admire you for your forthright stand. It's natural to want to be liked by the crowd. But compromising with principles is always wrong, often dangerous. What is right? What is wrong? Fortunatcly, there are ways for members of the Church to recognize right from wrong. Read the Scriptures; listen to the teachings of your Church leaders. And listen, also, to the whisperings of that "still, small voice." When it whispers: "It's wrong; don't do it!" — say firmly, honestly, finally: "No, thank you — no!"