[Vol45 | December 1958 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
at  its  1906  level.    But  the  saving  of  lives  is  not  enough. 
The  story  of  TB  today  is  the  story  of  250,000  Americans  suffering 
from  active  tuberculosis.  It  is  the  story  of  1,750,000  Americans  with  in- 
active TB  who  risk  relapse  unless  their  health  is  maintained  at  a  high  level. 
It  is  the  story  of  some  90,000  Americans  now  healthy  who  will  be  struck 
down  by  TB  in  the  coming  year. 
Whether  or  not  you  are  among  the  millions  fighting  a  personal  battle 
against  TB,  you  will  share  in  the  tremendous  cost.  The  annual  cost  of 
TB  has  increased  more  than  $100,000,000  since  1952  to  a  total  of  more 
than  $725,000,000.    Most  of  this  comes  out  of  the  taxpayer's  pocket. 
Christmas  Seal  funds  contributed  by  the  people  to  the  3,000  volun- 
tary tuberculosis  associations  throughout  the  United  States  are  spent  pri- 
marily to  prevent  the  spread  of  TB  through  health  education,  through  case 
finding,  through  rehabilitation,  and  through  medical  research.

'Jjeck  the  uLalls 
Helen  Spencei  Williams 
'pODAY    the    beloved    old    carol  and  dime,  florist,  or  display  stores, 
"Deck  the  Halls  W^ith  Boughs  some  tinsel  ribbon,  narrow  baby  rib- 
of  Holly,"  takes   on  a  new  theme  bon,    some   pearl   and    gold   beads, 
and  a  new  look.    Christmas  decora-  straight  pins,  and  good  sharp  scis- 
tions  by  Florence  Williams  combine  sors.     The  florist  tinsel  and  narrow 
all  the  wonderful  modern  ideas,  ma-  baby   ribbon   can   be   purchased   in 
terials,  and  colors,  with  the  precious  fifty  yard  bolts  which   is   the  least 
old  traditions  of  the  Christmas  sea-  expensive  way  to  buy  them, 
son    to    make    this    year   the   most  It  might  be  well  to  begin  w^ith 
unique  one  we  have  ever  had.  a  large  size  ball,  at  first,  until  you 
The  only  essentials  that  versatile  get  the  knack  of  making  one.    The 
and  creative  Florence  insists  on,  are  small  balls  are  a  bit  more  difficult 
that  Christmas  trimmings  must  be  to  handle. 
gay,  heartwarming,  and,  above  all,  First,  cut  your  velvet  in  bias  one- 
beautiful,  and  that  we  should  all  inch  strips.  Florence  warns  that 
know  the  joy  of  making  them  with  these  should  be  marked  first  in  pen- 
our  own  hands.  She  believes  that  cil  so  that  they  will  be  cut  true  and 
each  year  something  new  should  be  even,  as  the  covering  of  these  balls 
added,  that  we  should  not  stand  of  styrofoam  with  the  velvet  is  the 
still  and  always  look  back,  but  that  basis  of  making  these  ornaments 
we  should  establish  a  few  new  tra-  beautiful  and  professional  looking, 
ditions  of  our  own  each  year,  using  Stretch  the  bias  strips  of  velvet  as 
the  many  new  things  and  materials  tightly  as  possible  in  pie-shaped  see- 
that  are  being  made  available  to  us  tions,  criss-cross,  until  the  ball  is 
in  this  wonderful  modern  day,  seek-  entirely  covered.  Secure  each  see- 
ing for  anything  and  everything  tion  firmly  with  a  pin  at  the  top  and 
lovely  and  praiseworthy  and  of  good  bottom  of  the  ball,  but  be  sure  to 
report.  hold  the  material  taut  as  you  pin. 
Her   tables   are  piled   high   with  After  the  ball  is  completely  cov- 
materials   to   make  a   new   type   of  ered  with  the  velvet,  cover  the  raw 
Christmas  balls  for  tree  trimming,  edges  with  the  narrow  baby  ribbon. 
There  are   Christmas  tree  balls  of  Then  the  fun  of  decorating  the  balls 
every  color  combination  imaginable,  begins.     The   colors   and   combina- 
balls  that  you  and  I  can  make  with  tions  of  trimmings  are  yours  for  the 
scraps  of  velvet  and  ribbon  and  with  choosing. 
bits    of   gold   and   silver   trimming,  On  one  ball  Florence  used  bright 
braid,  old  jewelry,  and  fancy  pins  green  velvet  cut  from  an   old  dis- 
and  odd  earrings.     So  now  is  the  carded  party  dress.     Next  she  cov- 
time  to  get  out  the  old  button  box,  ered  the  raw  edges  with  green  baby 
scrap  bag,  and  jewelry  case.  ribbon,  then  stretched  strips  of  lacy 
Perhaps  the  only  outlay  of  money  gold,    inch-wide    tinsel    purchased 
for  the  creating  of  these  tree  orna-  from  a  florist;  next  she  placed  tiny, 
ments  will   be   in   the  purchase  of  bright  red  silk  braid  and  black  rat- 
styrofoam  balls  of  all  sizes  at  the  five  tail  braid  alternately  to  make  the 
Page  820

"DECK  THE  HALLS' 
821 
Hal  Rumel 
\'ELVET  AND  RIBBON  BALLS  DECOR-\TE  A  CHRISTNL\S  TREE 
Arrangement  b\-  Florence  C.  Williams 
ball  look  exotic.  The  pins  at  the 
top  and  bottom  which  hold  the  \  el- 
vet  ribbon  and  trim  were  covered 
with  a  gold  ornament  made  of  a 
fancy  button  and  beads.  A  loop  of 
gold  thread  was  slipped  under  the 
last  loop  of  ribbon  and  trim,  and  a 
Christmas  ornament  hook  was 
added  to  hang  the  ball  on  the  tree. 
Florence   has   made   over  a   hun- 
dred of  these  balls,  and  what  a  glori- 
ous arrav  of  color  combinations  she 
has  used  in  the  makingi  One  is  of 
white  vehet  with  gold  braid  and 
tinsel  ribbon,  with  pearls  and  gold 
beads  stuck  here  and  there  onto 
the  ball.  The  top  and  bottom  are 
adorned  with  an  ornament  made  of 
an  earring  of  pearls.  Another  one 
is  made  of  shades  of  red  with  silver
