[Vol45 | December 1958 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Fiction | Title: You Can | Author: Jennings]
Can Sew — X— Other &dge Finishes Jean R. Jennings THE preceding lesson dealt with a fitted facing as an edge finish. However, in the progress of sewing there are times when a facing is not a satisfactory finish because of either the dress style or the type of material being used. In these instances some other edge finish is needed. Binding is one of the most popular and practical methods of finishing edges. A binding, usually made from a bias strip of material, strengthens and decorates an edge. Since a binding is carried over a raw edge, it shows equally on both sides and differs fundamentally from a facing which is not seen on the right side. Bindings are more suitable than facings for edges of transparent fabric. Bound edges can be used instead of facings in places where two layers of fabric would be too heavy. The width of a binding is determined partly by the texture of the cloth. On transparent fabrics and dainty small garments it should be very narrow, even as small as oneeighth-inch. On firm fabrics, bindings may be one inch or even wider. The method of applying bindings should be suited to their width, the fabric, and the shape of the edge being bound. A single layer of cloth is usual for firm fabrics, but a folded bias strip, called a double or French binding, is better on Sheers and light weight, slippery materials. The success of good binding depends first on obtaining the true bias grain of the material, evenly cut strips, and proper joinings. As the true bias grain is the diagonal of both lengthwise and crosswise grain, bring the straight crosswise CUTTING AND JOINING BIAS STRIPS LENGTHWISE \ NN NN x ASIMSSOWD <— Page 824 --x SEAM Figure 1 YOU CAN SEW — X — OTHER EDGE F! NISHES 825 I SINGLE BIAS Figure 2 edge parallel with the lengthwise edge. 'The diagonal fold thus formed is the true bias. Press the fold lightly and cut. 'To insure even edges and strips of even widths always measure accurately with a ruler or gauge. Bias strips are always joined on the straight grain of the goods. In joining strips lay the two diagonal ends together, right sides together, having the edges match at the point where the seam starts. (See Figure 1.) Stitch and press seams open. The width of the bias strips from which the binding is made will be six times as wide as the desired finished width of the binding for the French fold type, used on sheer fabric. For the regular bias binding, cut the strip four times the desired finished width. To make the French fold binding, fold the bias strip double, right side out, and baste or press lightly. Baste in place to the right side of the fabric with all raw edges together. Stretch the binding slightly on inward curves and ease it on outward curves. *Stitch in place with a seam allowance that is one-third the width of the bias fold. Before turning the binding down, press along the line of stitching. Turn the binding over the raw edges to the wrong side and bring DOUBLE BIAS Figure 3 the fold to the line of stitching. Blind hem in place, catching hand stitches into the machine stitches already in place. In applying the single binding, the seam allowance is just one-fourth the width of the strip. After the first stitching, the loose raw edge is folded over just to meet the other raw edge of the bias. 'The fold thus formed is brought down and blind hemmed against the machine stitching. After the binding is finished, press lightly on the wrong side. Avoid pressing bias edge finishes too flat. To apply wide bindings to sharply curved edges requires skill and great care. Special pains must be taken in shaping the bias which must be shrunk on some edges in fabrics that are not soft and very flexible. Narrow bindings are much simpler than wide ones and can be applied to shaped edges much more easily. Corded edges are not as commonly used, but are very attractive and give an especially rich look to the garment when used. To make a corded edge finish, begin with a bias strip the same as for binding. 1. Stitch cable cord or heavy string of the desired thickness into one edge of 826 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 the bias strip, using the cording presser foot. The seam allowance below the cord should be at least five-eighths inch. 2. Pin and stitch the cording to the garment with the wider allowance uppermost. 3. Trim the garment seam allowance and the under layer of the bias strip to one-fourth inch or less. 4. Turn under the edge of the upper Javer of the bias one-eighth inch and edge stitch. 5. Turn bias down and tack lightly in place. For a piped edge use the same method as for cording. A piping differs from a cording only in having no cord in the folded edge. Both pipings and cordings are often made in contrasting materials to add a color accent. Cording and piping also add a decorative effect when set in seams - at waistlines, at the top of ruffles, around cuffs and collars, and used to outline yokes. <i. Who Can Know She Stars? Maude O. Cook Who can know the secret of the stars, That nightly shine in splendor in the sky? In patterned rhythm, Mars and Venus move, And galaxies majestically glide by. If we could know the meaning of these orbs, And read the secret locked in their embrace, We would see God in dignity and power, Moving in wonder-workings throughout space. Oi Tlew Serial "She Silver Leash to Begin in Yanuary new serial "The Silver Leash," by Beatrice R. Parsons, will begin in the January issue of the Magazine. Readers of the new serial will find vivid characters, mystery, and suspense in a story of changing loyalties. 'The story relates the complex problems confronting LaRue Harding when she visits her sister's family in Fivelakes, Arizona, and how she finally learns that service and sacrifice can make life beautiful. The author, Mrs. Parsons, has written many excellent stories for the Magazine, and her serial "Uncertain Possession," appeared in the MagaZiN€ IN 1952. "Not to the Swift'' Deone R. Sutherland Cuapter 6 (Conclusion) Synopsis: Julie Markham, who lived with her widowed mother in Chicago and studied music, became engaged to Professor Craig Carlson, a teacher in the school. Julie's mother wanted her to have a career, but Julie and Craig went West for their temple marriage and Craig accepted a position teaching in a small college. 'Their son was born in April, and Julie was so busy and happy that she almost forget her music. However, she sang for stake conferences and for school programs. She was lonesome for her mother, whom she had not seen since her marriage, and finally Mrs. Markham telephoned to say she was coming for a visit. RAIG and Julie and baby Ralph waited patiently for Mary Markham's plane. The plane was late, and Ralph was beginning to get tired. They didn't want to go home because each delay they had been assured it would be but twenty minutes more. 'The winter weather, Julie supposed. At last the plane was announced, and Julie and Craig hurried to the fence. Julie's mother looked very smart in her dark suit and red scarf beneath the fur coat over her shoulders. Julie wondered if she looked as dowdy as she felt beside her mother. "Julie, you don't look well enough to be expecting again. Do you think it's wise so soon?" Julie's mother couldn't keep back her fear. Ralph had begun to fuss, and Craig was trying to get him comfortable in his arms and carry a bag at the same time as they walked to the car. They had had to stand in line for her mother's two bags, and this last delay was too much for the baby. "Craig and I want a large family," Julie said. Oh, dear, she sounded too grim for words, Julie thought to herself. Maybe in the car Ralph would go to sleep. Mother would see tomorrow what an angel he really was. When they reached home, things seemed to go a little better, though Ralph woke up and cried. He feels how nervous I am, Julie thought, and he's reflecting how I feel. "Tl have to quit worrying about making things go right," Julie said to Craig later. "Everything goes wrong when I do." Mary admired the house and walked out briefly in the snow to look at the big yard. "Craig and I are really going to get busy on the yard next summer," Julie said. "It seems to me you'll have more than enough to do next summer," her mother said drily. Craig bought an extra ticket to the symphony concert, and Mary agreed that the music was exceptional. She enjoyed driving about and seeing the new beautiful chapels. Craig and Julie wanted to drive her the three or four hundred miles to visit her husband's relatives, but she tefused. 'The weather was bad, and she felt the trip would be uncomfortable for Julie. Julie had almost given up hoping that Ralph would get acquainted with his Grandmother Markham. Craig's mother had just to call from Page 827 828 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 the doorway, and Ralph would tumble over himself in delight to see her. "It's simply that Ralph has seen so much of Mother," Craig assured Julie. "Leave your mother alone with the baby. 'They'll soon get acquainted." "IT can't do that," Julie protested. "Mother has but a few days more." But Craig insisted Julie go with him to spend an evening with some other faculty members, and Mary agreed to stay with the baby. Julie insisted they come home early. Everything had gone very smoothly. Ralph was being quietly rocked to sleep by his grandmother when they came in the house. '"He's a very good, sweet baby," Mary told them earnestly. Craig took Mary to the campus, and she spent the morning looking about the college and the town. "T met a very nice man named Mr. Stuart who is the registrar," Mary remarked later to Julie. "Even though it's winter one can see that the campus is very pleasant." The last two days of Mary's visit, she spent staying in the house looking out the windows or rocking Ralph. "She must think this is the dullest place she ever saw," Julie said to Craig after they were in bed. "I really hate to see her go back to Chicago, but I guess she prefers it infinitely to Bradley." "She seems very attached to Ralph," Craig said, trying to comfort Julie. They waited dispiritedly with Mary for her plane at the airport. "Youll come next summer, Mother, won't you? Everything is so lovely here in the summer." "Tl try," Mary assured them, and then the rush for departure began. Craig and Julie drove slowly home. 'They had hoped to encourage Mary to move West to be near them, but they felt they had not succeeded. Yet it was sad to think of her going back to Chicago alone. T ele », "s oad OBERT Markham Carlson was born in the middle of a blustery cold March. "How can the miracle seem even greater the second time?" Julie wondered happily to Craig as_ they bathed him together in the first few weeks that he was home. It was more difficult for Julie to get out with the two children, but as summer brought mild warm weather she began to go to Sunday School and sacrament meeting. One evening at a neighboring ward Craig sang "In My Father's House" with piano and violin accompaniment. Julie felt the tears wet against her eyelashes as she held Ralph on her lap. 'Tiny Bobby lay asleep in his car bed in front of the bench beside her. Craig had a great gift and he shared it freely. Was she really beginning to understand that people could contribute all of their talents or abilities no matter where they were? In her heart, now, she knew that. If only her mother could find this peace also. Really learning to love people was the answer to a full and complete life, and it began in the home with a husband like Craig and children like theirs. Craig taught summer school again, so the work in the yard progressed slowly. Julie took the children in the yard with her, the baby in his bed and Ralph toddling about. She worked slowly on the flower beds. They had drawn plans of the "NOT TO THE SWIFT" yard, but in the end had returned to the original old-fashioned general outlines for the flower beds. Julie turned the rich black earth slowly around the new shrubs and flowers. She would have liked to water in the afternoon, but so would little Ralph, so Julie kept peace by waiting until he was in bed for the night. He was dragging his little shovel about the yard, now stooping to inspect a blade of grass, now putting on a burst of speed that sent him rolling happily on the grass. "Julie, I can do that." It was Craig home early. She hadn't heard his car. "I parked in front. I thought you might like to go for a drive when it's cooler." Craig kissed them all soundly and sat down on the grass while Ralph climbed over his shoulders and landed in a heap on his lap. "Say, Julie, I ran into the registrar, you know, Mr. Stuart, and he said he'd written to your mother. What would he have been writing to your mother about? I was already late to a class, and someone else came up right then so I didn't get a chance to ask him anymore." Jule lifted the baby out and held him up to inspect the garden. "I don't know. I can't think that Mother would be interested in going back to school. She hasn't mentioned anything in her letters about him. I guess it couldn't be anything very important or she'd have said something." "Why don't you ask her next time you write?" Craig said, holding onto Ralph's legs. "Come on, boy, let's go get cleaned up and help Mama with the dinner." "I'm going to write anyway," Julie said, following with Bobby. "I was hoping so that Mother would 829 come this summer. I wish she could mect Bobby. Mr. Thayer must owe Mother a half dozen vacations." ULIE'S mother wrote that she was coming the first of September. Julie went into the living room and curled up in the most comfortable chair. She read the letter again. What would Julie think if her mother took a job in Bradley permanently? She had written Mr. Stuart about openings in his office, and he had given her a lead. On consideration of her recommendations and qualifications, she had been offered the job as assistant registrar. She planned to get a small apartment close to the campus. Mr. Thayer had been very nice about everything, and she had agreed to break in her elated assistant for her job. 'The letter ended, "Would you and Craig mind my being so near?" Jule tried to catch her breath. The letter seemed too good to be true. She would write her mother immediately. No, she would call her tonight. Surely the budget could stand one call on this wonderful occasion. Oe se Ee) oe) ok RAIG and Julie helped her mother get settled in her new apartment. It wasn't until her mother had begun her new job and was quite settled that Julie mentioned how she had surprised her. "I thought you didn't like Bradley at all. I thought that visit with us had spoiled our chances for ever getting you to move here permanently." Mary Markham looked at Julie in surprise. "Why, Julie, I loved having a chance to catch my breath. I kept remembering how peaceful and quiet the snow was outside your big window when I was sitting in 830 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 your living room one day rocking Ralph. I looked down at him, and I found myself wondering what life was all about. What was I doing living off in Chicago when my heart was with all of you. Yes, I was very depressed at leaving, and I was worse when I got back there. As soon as I was able to make my decision, life began to have real meaning for me again." Julie kissed her mother's cheek. That night after dinner when her mother had gone home, Julie sat on the edge of the bathtub watching Craig brush his teeth. "Everything has turned out so well, Craig; do you think Mother will always be happy out here? Do you think she'll ever regret moving West? I'd hate to feel responsible." Julie yawned. It had been a long day. "Time will tell." Craig rinsed his toothbrush. "We'll have to wait and see, I guess." RAIG mentioned the Messiah a few days later to Julie. "But it seems so early to talk about the Messiah," Julie said. "No, you don't understand. This is a special big event, It's one of the most beautifully finished music productions out here. 'The music department head wants you to try out for the soprano. 'They have professional singers or singers of professional caliber sing all the major roles. I want you seriously to consider doing it." Craig kissed the back of her neck. "The children during the rehearsal time will be well taken care of by two grandmothers and the proudest father in the world. I want you to try for the role before the committee which selects the soloists. I'll drive you down and do the accompaniment." ""I've studied it, of course, but it's been so long ago. I'd have to practice. I'd never get the role, but I believe I would like to do the tryout. What music will I need?" "It's in my brief case. I brought it home today." Julie hadn't known how much she really wanted to sing the role until _ it became hers. She went down to the music building and practiced with Craig. How little she had understood and felt this most famous of all Handel's oratorios before. Had she really grown up in this respect also? Craig and Julie had family prayer before each of the final rehearsals and before the first of the two performances. As Julie took her place with the other soloists she began to pray in her heart again. She had prepared herself for this role as completely and adequately as it had been possible. Now she placed herself in her Heavenly Father's hands. The first two parts passed as in a dream. 'There was no sound in the great hall. She had a feeling that for this moment she had been preparing all her life. 'This was why she had been blessed with her voice. "I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth." She sang not only with certainty of talent and preparation, but also with the certainty of knowledge in this greatest message of all. Julie's mother wept when she found Julie after the performance. "Julie, I almost failed you. All the time it was in this place that your talent was to come to fruition. How could your own mother have been so blind?" But Julie refused to let her mother say more. She no longer needed "NOT TO THE SWIFT" praise from others to tell her how she had sung. She knew she had done far better than her talents alone could have carried her. 83] and chuckled over the great grunts and groans that Craig made with Ralph astride his chest. Craig's eyes met hers for a moAfter the last performance, which was held on the following day, she and Craig returned to a quiet house. She put some of the bouquets of flowers that had been sent to her about the house in vases. Craig ment. 'Then he said lightly, "Ts it an anticlimax to be home, Julie, and have it all over?" "No," Julie said trying to hide how deeply she felt, "I would be no other place." (The End) wrestled with Ralph on the living Julie rocked the baby room floor.