[Vol45 | December 1958 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
One of the rewards of studying literature is that it specifies generalized causes and movements as seen working in the mind of one single, separate person. And no thread runs more truly along the center core of New England Puritanism than does that of the Mather family. By meeting briefly the three generations of Mather men, we see the birth of the dream of the New Zion, watch it rise to its heights, then degenerate before the new currents of belief and value which shaped the American colonies in the decades preceding the Revolutionary War. Richard Mather (1596-1669) Influenced by John Cotton and Thomas Hooker, Richard Mather (rhymes with rather) came to Dorchester, Massachusetts, in 1633, after his Puritanical beliefs caused him to be suspended as a minister in England. For his physical Strength and endurance, his full 849 voice, and his sincere devotion to Puritanism, he was known as "a mighty man." The church was always his first love; then came his great love of books, his power of swaying his audiences with his words, and his never-satisfied need to publish his many writings, thus finding prominence and fame in the religious world and in his own community. It was Richard Mather who first wrote the basic theory of Puritan church government. 'Theologically his most important work was 'The New England Platform (1649) which applied the covenant principle to local churches. 'Thirteen years later, when he saw the existence of the church threatened by its own requirement that only those among the second generation who had received a spiritual illumination of vision were worthy of membership, he drafted the Half-Way Covenant. 'This controversial document eased membership requirements sufficiently to insure the church's selfperpetuation. The most popular book to which he contributed was the Bay Psalm Book, the first book published in America. Appearing in 1640, less than ten years after the Puritans arrived, it was reprinted more than seventy times before the Revolution, yet only eleven copies survive. In 1947 one of these was sold for $151,000, the greatest sum ever paid for an English work, more than twice the total paid for its nearest rival, Shakespeare's First Folio. Until recently it was believed that the preface to the Bay Psalm Book came from Mather's pen, but recent scholarship proves it to have been written by John Cotton, although 850 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 Paul's 'Photos INCREASE MATHER Mather probably translated some of the Psalms, as did many of his fellow ministers. The aim of the book was to restate the Psalms of David in language sufficiently plain that a direct, simple transmission of thought was no longer obstructed by fancy words and elegance of phrase. As the preface states, ""God's altar needs not our polishing." 'The translation of the Twenty-third Psalm is unique. It begins: The Lord to mee a shepheard is, want therefore shall not I Hee in the folds of tender grasses, doth cause me downe to lie: To waters calme me gently leads restore my soul doth hee: Hee doth in paths of righteousness: for his names sake leade mee. The morning of his death he tried to enter his library to open his beloved but temporarily neglected books. Seeing he could not make it, he said, "I have not been in my study several days; and is it not a lamentable thing that I should lose so much time?" 'The Mather dye was cast early and firmly. Increase Mather (1639-1723) Four of Richard's six sons became ministers. Increase, the youngest, was the greatest leader of them all, and greatest of the Mather clan. Blood tells, particularly so with the Mathers. Increase: entered Harvard at age twelve, thus far its youngest pupil. He learned Latin, Hebrew, and Greek, and, upon his graduation at seventeen, sailed for Dublin, where his brother Samuel was a noted preacher, to graduate from 'Trinity University with distinction. As one might expect of a Mather so promising and proud, he preached from various prominent English and Irish pulpits for the next three years, New England now being too small and remote a place for his talents. However, when Cromwell's Commonwealth. Crumbled, so did the fond vision of Puritanism's ever being the dominant church in England. Soon after Charles II was restored to the English throne, Increase found it more comfortable as a dissenter to return home. He received offers from dozens of churches, but began preaching at the North Church in Boston. During the first thirty years of his sixty-two year ministry, he became the most powerful man in the colonies, without question. When James IT came to the throne in 1685 and Massachusetts was in grave danger of losing all rights of self-government, it was Increase Mather who convinced James II, and, after 1688, his successor William of Orange, that Massachusetts should receive a new charter, despite her past severe LESSON DEPARTMENT acts of intolerance against fellowEnglishmen who held heretical religious views. When, to receive any charter at all, Increase was forced to guarantee true religious toleration henceforth, the absolute authority of the theocracy came to an end, and with it much of Mather's political and ecclesiastical prestige. In those first brilliant decades of hope fulfilled, the shining star of the Mather dynasty rose to its highest point. This one small community of Boston in the four decades preceding 1660 had drained off to itself hundreds of university graduates. By 1700, a community of seyen thousand, it supported two printing presses, second only to London, and half a dozen booksellers, some of whom became wealthy; at the time of Increase's death, when it had grown to ten thousand, Boston had supported four newspapers. During the 160 years between 1640 and 1799, almost thirty-six thousand separate entries were published, requiring twelve volumes of bibliography merely to list all the titles. And in this prolonged ferment of reading and publishing, Increase Mather was the top scholar as long as he lived, rivaled and surpassed by only one: his son Cotton. During his years in Boston, Increase published at least one book every year, totaling at his death in excess of 130 titles and sixty-five collaborations. Throughout his maturity his "scholar's day" was at least sixteen hours. In addition, he organized a society for scientific discussion, and corresponded regularly with various eminent scientists in England. This intellectual fervor was not in spite of his religion, but because 851 of it. He was but practicing to a zealous degree a central tenet of Puritanism as stated by Benjamin Whichcote when he said, "The Christian religion is intellectual, rational, and spiritual." 'Therefore he was the logical choice to be Harvard's new president, an offer which he, at first, declined in favor of his purely religious duties. Finally accepting, he was in full control of the school for sixteen years, furthering scientific studies and the newest theories from England, while at the same time safeguarding the conservative religious beliefs. Exactly as his father had done before him, he resented life's shortness and every moment which kept him from his books, since through them, he believed, he could best serve his fellows. As he wrote: Not many years ago I lost several months from study by sickness. Let every God-fearing reader joyn with me in prayer, that I may be enabled to redeem the time, and (in all ways where I am capable) to serve my gencration. Perhaps he served them through books too much; he needed his books more than his people. Relying more on tradition than on human warmth, he became austere and dogmatic. Impatient with those less zealous than himself, he tricd to force love and respect, which is only to destroy them. So intense became his self-esteem and his inability to share responsibility with others, that his enemies were no longer only the worldly profit-seckers and religious opponents outside his tightly controlled theocracy; his own followers revolted. 'Though he remained in his church office until his death, he was cased out of his 852 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 control of Harvard while still in the prime of life. Decades before he died, in 1723, the dream of perpetuating the New England Zion was for most men dead. But while Increase dreamed of that glorious past, his son Cotton tried to recreate it. And like his father and grandfather, his tool, of course, was the one most highly esteemed by all the Mathers: the pen. Cotton Mather (1663-1728) Born two years after his father Increase returned to Boston to begin his life's work there, Cotton outlived him but five bitter years. 'Though the two lives thus ran parallel, Cotton lived in the shadow of his illustrious father, obsessed with the fear that he would not "measure up." He must not fail, nor could the Puritan theocracy, to which he stood as chief heir-apparent. To a defense of these two overwhelming propositions he dedicated his life, but in vain. In his love of the past he forswore unappreciative realities of the present, continuing his withdrawal until he became a_ living anachronism. Outwardly, in scholarly pursuits, at least, he outshone his father. While Increase published 130 titles in his lifetime, Cotton published over 450. Increase spoke only Latin, though he could read Hebrew and Greek; Cotton was completely at home in seven languages. His private library contained over two thousand volumes, by far the largest in New England. Like his father, Cotton entered Harvard at age twelve, but his schoolmates found him to be a spoiled prig who had no time for entering into their play, so busy was he composing written moana ) Photos COTTON MATHER prayers asking forgiveness for their cruel words and actions. A nervous, stuttering child, he overcame his defect sufficiently to serve with his father as co-minister of the North Church, but he could never exert any influence politically, and he became an overseer of Harvard rather than its president, as he had hoped. The Puritan Cotton Mather's strength lay in his realization that God cared about his fate, yet whether he was among the chosen whom God had "pulled out of the Horrible Pitt" or whether he was to be damned, he could never know for sure. Cotton Mather's diary is a glowing revelation of the anxious tension to know which dominated his life. Always probing within himself for "the Mark of an effectually called Person," he submitted himself to as many as sixty periods of fasting and twenty vigils within one year. Further, by his "fastings, contritions, humiliations, supplications and abasements," he sought consciously to create within himself the symptoms he so desperately LESSON DEPARTMENT sought. When he was ignored socially, he pouted; when his will was crossed, he ranted; in his later years, he referred to the rising generation which spurned his guidance as "silly, foolish people" and "insignificant lice."". He was strongly opposed to entrusting common people with major decisions, feeling that "the highest privilege of the people is to be ruled by the Godly." Knowing, as he knew his name, that God had enchained the devil, but that he had "hornbly lengthened out the Chain," he entered in his diary the all-consuming purpose of his later years: I have set myself to countermine the Whole Plot of the Devil against New England, in every branch of it, as far as one of my darkness can comprehend such a work of darkness.

Through his diary we see him pathetically driven by his own desire to do good, that he might fulfill his own early promises of greatness. But in his loneliness, spurts of confidence, frustrations, and fears, he becomes nearly a pathetic figure. The Salem Witchcraft Trials Between 1647 and 1662, fourteen people had been hanged as witches in Connecticut and Massachusetts, then for over twenty years nothing happened until the early eighties. Increase Mather finished making a collection of proofs that the devil was actively working against Christ's cause, an editing task which had been begun by ministers in England and Ireland, then turned over to him. Entitled Remarkable Providences, the collection was published in 1684 to impress New Englanders with the increasing enormities of 853 their sins; else God would loosen the devil's chain even further. The accounts were objectively published just as Increase received them, but he erred by giving the prestige of his name to them without checking, at firsthand, with the original informants. As examples of "The Devil's Sport" which he carries on with us, Increase Mather cited chairs flying mysteriously through the air to alight on the supper table, a man beaten by his leathern breeches just after blowing out the candle to retire, cheese being wrested from a boy's hand just as he was to bite it, children eating ashes, barking like dogs, and clucking like hens. Such writings published by the greatest personal force in the community could not help but affect the people. At Salem, a group of teen-age girls began screaming that devils were biting and pinching them. In the prestige of the court they named various neighbors as witches, first poor, unattractive old women, but then more prominent people. Single-handed, Increase stopped the trials, an order for eight more executions was annulled, over 150 accused persons were released from jail, and all confessed witches were pardoned. While less than forty persons were killed as unconfessed witches in all of New England, several hundreds were executed in Eingland and Scotland during the reign of Queen Elizabeth, while unnumbered thousands died in Germany and Scandinavia during the century. Cotton Mather had nothing directly to do with the trials. It was amer "the tmals were over tliat Cotton blackened himself in the eyes of posterity with his ever-active 854 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 pen. By appealing to outworn covenant theology, he tried to make these deaths seem just and necessary. Magnalia Christi Americana Designedly Cotton Mather's greatest work (it took him three years to write it) and the one which represents him most fairly is Magnalia Christi Americana, translated as The Great Achievements of Christ in America. Divided into seven sections, its thousands of pages in general recount the "remarkable providences" by which God had guided the destinies of his people in New England, and it honored her great heroes of the past seventy years since the founding in 1630. Traditionally, the Puritans used history to prove that God had darkened the world during the Middle Ages, then slowly allowed man to receive more light and truth through the Renaissance until the New England venture brought his intent to a climax. In the words of the eminent John Cotton, grandfather to Cotton Mather, every Puritan felt a "panting, longing, eager desire" to see this fulfillment accomplished within himself. Bradford, Wé5inthrop, and other historians recorded day-to-day history as it happened, noting moral values and evidence of God's guiding hand. But not so with Cotton Mather. Cotton portrayed the New England past as having been in a delicate balance. For a certain measure of faithfulness God had allowed his people an equivalent amount of prosperity and happiness; likewise for so much sin, a balancing amount of punishment in the form of sickness, storm, drouth, or Indian attack had been measured out before the score had been evened once more. Man had fallen, but by a series of dramatic crises and victories he had recovered. Yet though evils covered the land once more: Therefore have we good reason to hope that this Day of Trouble, is near to an end, if our sins doe not undoe all that hath been wrought for us. Thus, as one might expect, New England history written for New Englanders was really another sermon in historical disguise. Cotton Mather's Mature Style When he so desired, Cotton wrote with a plain simplicity reminiscent of Bradford, as exemplified in his beautifully written life (text page 69). It was this philosophy of "the plain style' which had prompted his grandfather Richard Mather to rewrite David's Psalms, so compatible was it to the Puritan mind. Yet, in 1726, twenty-two years after Magnalia appeared, Mather published his Manaductio ad Munisterium designed to advise prospective young ministers on various matters, among them literary style. Completely repudiating the concept of the plain style as being theunformly gray container in which all contents had for too long been couched, he said, "Every man will have his own style which will distinguish him as much as his gait." Mather asked for the privilege of writing in the style which would insinuate onto his page the insight he had gained from his vast reading; then his "composures" would be "not only a cloth of gold, but also stuck with as many jewels as the gown of a Russian ambassador." LESSON DEPARTMENT We could ask no better description than his introduction to Magnalia (see text, page 63). It is overly wrought to our senses, and so laden with Mather's lifelong collection of literary jewels that its thought ls difficult to follow. It does, nonetheless, attain the epic grandeur which Cotton felt most appropriate to his subject. And whether the subject is more accurately New England or 855 Cotton Mather it would be hard to say. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why did Richard Mather rewrite David's 'I'wenty-third Psalm? 2. What was Cotton Mather's use of New England's historical past? 3. How did he justify his departure from the Puritan's traditional ''plain style'?