[Vol45 | December 1958 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: No]
Brown, of the Council of the Twelve Apostles; Elders ElRay L. Christiansen and Gordon B. Hinckley, Assistants to the Council of the Twelve; and Bishop 'Thorpe B. Isaacson, First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric. Present also were Edward O. Anderson, temple architect, A. Hamer Reiser, former British Mission president, and _assistant secretary to the First Presidency; Selvoy J. Boyer, President of the London 'l'emple; President Clifton G. M. Kerr, of the British Mission, together with the other mission presidents then presiding in Europe. The sisters of the Church were well represented, as well, at this sacred occasion. 'There were the wonderful wives of the brethren just mentioned (except for Emma Ray McKay, wife of the beloved President, who remained home in compliance with doctor's wishes). In addition there were Jeanette Morrell, a sister of President McKay, with her daughter; Leah D. Widtsoe, wife of the late apostle, John A. Widtsoe (who for years presided over the European Mission); Jennie FP. 'I'. Richards, wife of Stayner Richards who, as British Mission President, began negotiations for the temple site; our own beloved Belle S. Spafford, General President of the Relief Society of the Church; and Emily Bennett, First Counselor in the General Presidency of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. Scattered throughout the audience, of course, were other humble, dedicated sisters. IRST and foremost at the dedication itself, was the attendance of the Prophet of the Lord of his day, President David O. McKay. To sit in his presence, to look into his eyes, to listen to his power in counsel, instruction, and prayer, is, at any time, to feel through him communion with the Father. At the dedication many saints tasted of this experience for the first time. In six different sessions he preached six different sermons—each inspiring to its particular audience. 'The dedicatory prayer he offered twice a day for three days, each time with grandeur and fervor. Faces that recall the warmth of uninvited tears coursing down their cheeks, ears that still throb remembering the thunderous tones of "The Spint of God Like a Fire Is Burning" — testify of God's joy and approval of his house and servants. Kw OK OK OK OK HAT, then, might some future historian write on the books of his generation as he seeks to abridge the record of this occasion? From the lips of the "special witnesses of Christ" in attendance came much wisdom and advice. 'These fragments can only leave to the imagination how much more glorious the whole of what they spoke: President Joseph Fielding Smith: Only in the temple can the fulness be received.... Brothers and sisters, prepare yourselves by your faith and prayers to receive the blessings to be granted you. Elder Henry D. Moyle: 'The Lord has called no man to this work anywhere who does not have a desire in his heart to keep the gospel.... Human wisdom applies to human things, God's wisdom to divine. A NEW SPIRE TOWARD HEAVEN 805 Courtesy Deseret News GENERAL AUTHORITIES AT THE LONDON TEMPLE President David O. McKay (center); at the left Elder Richard L. Evans of the Council of the 'Twelve; at the right, President Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve. Elder Richard L. Evans: Keep sweet and simple in your life, keep clean, keep faithful. Prepare yourselves to come to the house of the Lord and accept these essential ordinances. Elder Hugh B. Brown: The doctrine of the immortality of the soul is basic to all that will be done in this temple, be cause in large measure it will have to do with "that other living called the dead." Temple work brings the here and the hereafter very close 'together and makes the change which men call death appeal as it really is, a birth, a continuation of the eternity which is now. Elder ElRay L. Christiansen: If we receive the blessings of this Temple, we must first of all prepare ourselves to receive them. Hearts must be pure to enter here There must be a process of sanctification on the part of each of us How may we become pure in heart? By casting away hate and guile and rancor and il will and jealousy and anger and covetousness. Elder Gordon B. Hinckley: This building stands as a testimony of four great fundamentals of our doctrine: first, as au evidence of the faith of this people that God lives, a real personality, and that Jesus, his Son, is the Savior and Redeemer of mankind; second, as an evidence of a conviction that the soul is immortal; third, as an evidence of the assurance that the family is eternal; fourth, as an evidence of our faith that God is just and merciful, that he loves all of his children, and has provided a way whereby all may return to him. Bishop Thorpe B. Isaacson: Dedicate your lives to the Lord pray fervently for faith in Christ and in the Se and for strength to live the gospel.... We are never better than when we are on our knees. 806 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 Courtesy Deseret News VISITORS GREETED BY PRESIDENT BOYER At the left: President of the London Temple, Selvoy J. Boyer; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, (center); at right: Mrs. Ruth Winston, Lord Mayor of Southgate, England, the city's first woman mayor. The dedicatory prayer in its greatness pleads for all peoples. Excerpts follow: On the occasion of the dedication of this, the fourteenth temple, may we first express overwhelming gratitude just/ to be alive in this great age of the world. We pause this morning to open our hearts to thee for this special privilege. No other time in world history has been so wonderful — no other age wherein thy secret powers have been more within human control; in no other era hath thy purposes been nearer human comprehension. Help us, O Lord, truly to live. Thy mercy, thy wisdom, thy love are infinite; and in dispensations past thou hast pleaded, as thou dost now plead, through chosen and authoritatively appointed servants, for thy erring children to heed the gospel message and come to thee. Holy temples are a means of extending thy loving mercy to thy children even beyond the grave.. «=. With humility and deep gratitude we acknowledge thy nearness, thy divine guidance and inspiration. Help us, we pray thee, to become even more susceptible in our spiritual response to thee. We express gratitude for the right of free peoples to resort to the ballot, and for freedom to meet in legislative halls to consider problems and settle difficulties without fear or coercion of dictators, of secret police, or of slave camps. O Father, help people everywhere more clearly to realize that government exists for the protection of the individual, not the individual for the government. Millions are being influenced by false ideologies which are disturbing the peace of mind, and distorting the thinking A NEW SPIRE TOWARD HEAVEN of honest men and women. O Lord, guide and protect thy messengers in their efforts to convince honest people in all lands and climes that Jesus Christ is ""The way, the truth, and the life," and that '"'there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved." Help all, O Father, to realize more keenly and sincerely than ever before that only by obedience to eternal principles and ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ may loved ones who died without baptism be permitted the glorious privilege of entrance into thy kingdom. If any with gloomy forebodings or heavy hearts enter, may they depart with their burdens lightened and their faith increased; if any have envy or bitterness in their hearts, may such feelings be replaced by self-searching and forgiveness. May all who come within these sacred walls feel a peaceful, hallowed influence. Cause, O Lord, that even people who pass. The grounds, or view the temple from afar, may lift their eyes from the groveling things of sordid life and look up to thee 807 and acknowledge thy providence. We re-dedicate our lives to the establishment of the kingdom of God on earth for the peace of the world, and to thy glory forever. %K HK HK OK Yes, when the book is opened by which this generation may _ be judged, human mistakes cannot be excused for lack of warning and guidance from on high through ordained prophets. 'This occasion ranks with other glorious spiritual sessions wherein the members of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints meet to renew themselves and hear further instruction. If only the spirit of the dedication of the London 'Temple may inspire a re-dedication of our lives to be diligent in the work, to keep our testimonies steadily aflame, to be doers of the word—thus to please the Lord! Photograph by Irvin T. Nelson MEMBERS OF 'THE NEW CHAPEL BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Left to right: Hattie W. Beckingham, President; Sarah Palmer, First Counsclor; Doreen Kenwood; Joan Bennett (knecling) Macaleen, Secretary-I'reasurer.; Phyllis Tart, Second Counselor; Tllen The women are pictured gathering leaves from the trees and shrubs on the London Temple grounds. 'They have identified, named, and mounted forty varictics. Christmas Is Where the Heart Is Rosa Lee Lloyd soft leather flats and flopped down on the bed beside her roommate Marcia Sloan. "Whew!" she breathed. "Only two more days until Christmas. I leave for home tomorrow. I can hardly wait!" Marcia raised herself to her elbows, opened her brown eyes with their tentative twinkle, sizing her up. "Youre the silliest!" he said. "Here we are at State Hill College and all you do is brag about going home for Christmas. Why don't you grow up?" Kitsy's blue eyes deepened, sensitively, but she hung on to her smile. She couldn't let Marcia know she had hit her weak spot. Being grown-up seemed to be the most important thing to Marcia. You had to be emancipated, as she called it, and think for yourself. You couldn't mope around because you were homesick for your mother and your dad nor talk about how wonderful everything had been at home. That was strictly juvenile, according to Marcia, who was going on eighteen, a year older than Kitsy. "T like your new flats," Marcia said irrelevantly, sliding to the side of the bed and stepping into them. "Look, they just fit. I thought they'd be too small because you're such a little twerp.' "Tm five feet two!" Kitsy defended herself. "And I'm one hundred and five pounds. Even my brother Bull says that's okay." "I guess it's just your attitude," Marcia said slowly, tipping her dark head sideways, sizing her up again. Page 8C8 I ITSY Hardwick kicked off her "You're the baby doll type. But you'll learn," she added, hopefully. "Give you another year here at State Hill and you'll be real fun for Christmas. Look at me. I have a date with Cliff Hyland. Howie — Grant will be with us, too, because they aren't going way up home to Montana for Christmas." Kitsy wondered how Marcia could possibly endure a Christmas like that. 'Then she remembered that Marcia's mother was away traveling. But Marcia never talked about it. She was too busy having fun. "Cliff has told me about turkey newberg at Harvey's Place," Marcla was saying. "Howie might get a job singing there Christmas Eve." "Howie has forgotten Christmas," Kitsy said flatly. Marcia's eves narrowed. "I don't know why he likes you so well, Kitsy," she said tightly. "But he does. You know that. That's why you try to whittle him down all the time." "He likes me?" Kitsy sat upright. "All he can talk about is football. I tried to help him with his English I, and where did I get? He made fun of all the poets." Marcia nodded. "I know," she conceded. "Howie is strictly commercial. 'That's because he has to earn his way through school." "He doesn't seem to have a heart," Kitsy said. "He's always clowning and pulling faces. I don't believe he ever really thinks about life and things, or even Christmas!" "Look who's talking big!" Marcia said. Her eyes were very bright as she walked to the door. "I'm going CHRISTMAS IS WHERE THE HEART IS down to dinner. Something sweet," went out. Kitsy lay back on the bed and turned her face to the wall. Hope they have She said as she HE couldn't live through Christmas if she and her brother Bill weren't going home to Orchardville, She had to be with her family in their big, two-story white frame house on Poppy Street. Closing her eves, Kitsy pretended to sleep, even though it was nearly dinner time. Dinner, Mom and Dad would be having dinner in the dining room with the long French windows that opened out to the garden. Now the trees and bushes would be fluffy white with snow; even the big tall pine by the front porch would have drippy little ice crystals that would glimmer in the moonlight and in the sunlight, too. It was the prettiest tree on Poppy Street. They decorated it every Christmas with gaily colored hghts clear up to the tiptop branches. Uncle Sid and Aunt Peg flew up from Los Angeles, because they thought Christmas at the HardWicks was just perfect. Thinking of Aunt Peg made Kitsy feel warm side. She was Mom's sister, five years younger, and she was very gay and cute, even if she was nearly forty, "We're one big family," Dad often said to them in his hearty Way. "Our home is your home." Home, Kitsy whispered to herself, her throat pinching in. Home. It was the most beautiful word in the world, even if Marcia didn't talk about her parents. Kitsy's eyes went to the clock 809 as she swung her feet to the floor. She had to eat because she had skipped luncheon and had eaten a candy bar instead. The telephone rang sharply. At the sound of Bill's voice her heart quickened. It was good to have a brother here at school, even if he was pinned to Barbara Edwards, who acted as though she owned him. Sometimes Bill had a sort of Upper-classman attitude toward her, but tonight his voice was different, solicitous and gentle, trying to tell her something without hurting her. Fear tightened her throat. Their father had just telephoned, Bill told her. Mom had been working too hard and she was so tired this morning that she couldn't get out of bed. Dad had called Dr. Wilkins. "A heart attack!" Kitsy moaned. "Oh, Bill, please say she's all right." "But she is," he went on. "Gt Overwork getting ready for Christmas the way she does. Dr. Wilkins put a stop to it right off. He had Dad bring her up to the hospital here in Center City so she can have proper care and rest. They've closed the house up for awhile," Kitsy couldn't breathe.