Parental Responsibility President David O. McKay [Address Delivered by President David O. McKay at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1962] ors, members of the Relief Society General Board, representatives from Relief Societies throughout the world, sisters and brethren, while listening to the excellent addresses delivered by Sister Larsen and the three members of the Presidency of Relief Society, I have been deeply impressed with the thought that this is one of the most significant gatherings in all the world. In the first place, in this — Spafford and Counsel- 876 audience filling this historic Tabernacle to overflowing, is gathered one of the largest assemblies of women in the world. In the second place, you are honored by being presided over by three of the greatest women in the world, and I choose my words advisedly. Next, the motive of this gathering is the noblest, because you have in your hearts the desire, the purpose of teaching your children, teenagers, and adults, the gospel of Jesus PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Christ, the greatest message in all the world. And today you have met together for the first time since the Supreme Court of the United States has re-emphasized or has passed on the rule of re-eemphasizing your divine obligation to teach the word of the Lord to your children. Since you last held a conference of this kind, the Supreme Court of the United States has made it unpatriotic for public schools to teach your children to pray. So, I think we are meeting on a most important occasion. What I said about the greatness of this audience I apply to the membership of the Relief Society in all the world. What I said about your Presidency I have also said to others outside the confines of the Church organization itself. And now in what I am going to say, | desire the inspiration of the Lord to reemphasize the responsibility of this body of Relief Society members to save souls as one of the obligations placed upon you by the Prophet Joseph himself. I should like to make a plea to you this afternoon to teach your children and others out of the books of the Church, the way to life and salvation — a plea for more parental responsibility. As a preface to the message I feel impressed to emphasize, I shall make brief reference to some facts and educational trends in early United States history. In 1850, the character and culture of the American people commanded the respect of the entire world. European parents sent their sons and daughters to our institutions that they might imbibe this faith-inspiring atmosphere. The Sabbath was 877 nationally recognized and observed. The churches were well attended. Divorces were rare. Today, according to the latest figures available, lawlessness is on the increase, the cost of crime at all levels in the United States is $22 billion, over $4 billion more than is spent for education. It represents a cost of $128 last year for every person in the United States. The crime rate has increased thirty-four per cent in the past five years, while the population has increased seven per cent. In other words, the rate of growth of crime outstrips the rate of growth of the population by nearly five to one. Sisters, what has happened to change this Christian concord of 1850 into this criminal chaos of 1962? NE hundred years ago, Ameticans were still being reared in public schools which included religious instruction. The great New Fingland Primer, which for more than a hundred and fifty years had been the textbook of the American schools, was just passing into discard. Eighty-seven per cent of the contents of this remarkable book, which had built the sturdy character of fathers, grandfathers, and great-grandfathers was the Bible. But from that time on, the Book of books ceased to be an important factor in public instruction. The lawmakers in Washington were intent, and commendably so, to make effective the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which says: "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or pro- 878 hibiting the free exercise thereof," to which we all subscribe. Ostensibly to make more restrictive this amendment, last June, the Supreme Court of the United States, by a vote of six to one, made unconstitutional the repeating of the following brief prayer written and recommended by the board of regents for use in the New York public schools. And this is their prayer: Almighty God, we acknowledge our dependence upon Thee, and we beg Thy blessings upon us, our parents, our teachers, and our country. By making that unconstitutional, the Supreme Court of the United States severs the connecting cord between the public schools of the United States and the source of divine intelligence, the Creator himself, "in whom we live and move and have our being." Mr. Justice Black points out in his personal note added to the decision of the Supreme Court that "It is neither sacrilegious nor antireligious to say that each separate government in this country should stay out of the business of writing or sanctioning official prayers and leave the purely religious function to the people themselves, and to those the people choose to look for religious guidance. To me, the ruling is surprising, when we realize that the noblest purpose of the public schools as a function of government should be to teach loyalty and obedience to the laws of the country. Our country's greatest asset is its manhood, upon which depends not only the survival of the individual freedom vouchsafed by the Consti tution and Bill of Rights, and all other ideals for which the founders of the Republic fought and died, but the survival of the best that we cherish in present-day civilization. NLY through proper education can these fundamental principles become fixed and _ guiding influences in the lives of human beings. Our educational system will radiate such principles only to the extent that we employ in our elementary schools, high schools, colleges, and universities men and women who are not only eminent in their chosen professions, but loyal to the Constitution of our land; influential as leaders, noble in character. The most potent influence in training youth to cherish life, to have increased respect for human kind, to keep their word of honor, to love justice, is the life and personality of the teacher. He who reputedly was the wisest American (Emerson) said: "Character is higher than intellect; a noble soul will be fit to live as well as to think." By law, the public schools of the United States must be non-denomr national. They can have no part in securing acceptance of any one of the numerous systems of belief regarding God and the relation of mankind thereto. Now let us remember and emphasize that restriction applies to the atheist as well as to the believer in God. Last June that ruling called attention to my feeling, which I wish to emphasize today — attention to the responsibility of revitalizing religion in the Church and in the home, making prayer much more PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY important than it has been in the lives of our children. To members of the Church such admonition is but a reemphasis of the word of the Lord as given in the divine commandments to parents who have children in Zion, "or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized" (D & C 68:25-26). The real tragedy in America is not that we have permitted the Bible to slip out of our public schools, but that we have so openly neglected to teach it in either the home or the Church. Never before was there such need of revitalizing the teaching of faith and repentance on the part of parents. Never before in the history of our country was the state in greater need of young men and young women who cherish the higher life in preference to the sordid, the selfish, and the obscene. RECORDS indicate that four serious crimes were committed each minute in the United States last year, and many of them by young boys and girls. It is true, of course, that not a few of these delinquents come from broken homes in which children have been denied proper training. May I tell you a story. Once I had great pleasure in training a wellbred colt. He had a good disposi- 879 tion, was clean, had a well-rounded eye, was well proportioned, and, all in all, was a choice equine possession. Under the saddle he was as willing, responsive, and co-operative as a horse could be. He and my dog "Scotty" were real companions. But "Dandy" resented restraint. He was ill-contented when tied, and would nibble at the tie rope until he was free. He would not run away, just take the bridle off his head and stand free. Thinking other horses felt the same, he would proceed to untie their ropes. He resented being confined in the pasture, and if he could find a place in the fence where there was only smooth wire, he would paw the wire carefully with his feet until he could step over to freedom. More than once my neighbors were kind enough to put him back in pasture. He learned even to push open the gate. 'Though his depredations were provoking and sometimes expensive, I admired his intelligence and ingenuity. But his curiosity and desire to explore the neighborhood led him and me into trouble. Once, on the highway, he was hit by an automobile, resulting in a demolished machine, injury to the horse, and _ slight, though not serious, injury to the driver. Recovering from that incident, and still impelled with a feeling of wanderlust, "Dandy" inspected the fence surrounding the pasture. He even found the gates wired. So, for awhile, we thought we had him secure. One day, however, somebody left the gate unwired. Detecting this, "Dandy" unlatched it, took "Nig," 880 his companion, with him, and _together they visited the neighbor's field. 'They went to an old house used for storage. "Dandy's" curiosity prompted him to push open the door. Just as he had surmised, there was a sack of grain. What a find! Yes, and what a tragedy! The grain was poison bait for rodents! In a few minutes "Dandy" and "Nig" were in spasmodic pain, and shortly both were dead. OW like "Dandy" are many of our youth! They are not bad; they do not even intend to do wrong, but they are impulsive, full of life, full of curiosity, eager to do something. 'They, too, are restive under restraint, but if they are kept busy, guided carefully and rightly, they prove to be responsive and capable; but if left to wander unguided, they all too frequently find themselves in the environment of temptation and too often are entangled in the snares of evil. Parents should be _ sufficiently companionable with their boys and girls as to merit their children's confidence. They should be companions with them. When _ parents shirk this duty, perhaps teachers can succeed where parents fail. 'Teach the boys that it is chastity during youth that gives vigor, strength, and virility of manhood. Teach the girls that chastity is the crown of beautiful womanhood. When young men and young women learn that, and join hands in holy matrimony, with a love that entwines their hearts, it is the memory of a virtuous life that contributes to the happiness of the home — not the memory of philandering or the suspicion of one or the other's having been unfaithful in youth, instead, a memory that they came together as God would have them, prepared to go through life as parents worthy of pure children. It is chastity, not prostitution that contributes to the perpetuity and virility of the race. "Train up a child in the way he should go" is a worthy admonition to parents and teachers for all time! One day he [Jean Valjean] saw some country people very busy pulling up nettles. He looked at the heap of plants, uprooted, and already wilted, and_ said: "This is dead; but it would be well if we knew how to put it to some use. When the nettle is young, the leaves make excellent greens; when it grows old it has filaments and fibres like hemp and flax. Cloth made from the nettle is worth as much as that made from hemp. Chopped up, the nettle is good for poultry; pounded, it is good for horned cattle. The seed of the nettle mixed with the fodder of animals gives a lustre to their skin; the root, mixed with salt, produces a beautiful yellow dye. It makes, however, excellent hay, as it can be cut twice in a season. And what does the nettle need? Very little soil, no care. No culture, except that the seeds fall as fast as they ripen, and it ls difficult to gather them; that is all. If we would take a little pains, the nettle would be useful; we neglect it, and it becomes harmful. Then we kill it. How much men are like the nettle!' After a short silence, he added: "My friends, remember this, that there are no bad herbs, and no bad men; there are only bad cultivators." [ quote this from Les Miserables to impress us all with the responsibility of guiding children and youth. Our Sunday School and other auxiliary organizations offer excellent opportunities as aids, but not as sub- PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY stitutes. 'The responsibility of parents is to see that their boys and girls are put in the environment of these meetings and take advantage of their aid in guiding the young from babyhood to adulthood. I have quoted this to you before, but I think it is appropriate this afternoon. He stood at the crossroads all alone The sunlight in his face; He had no thought for the world unknown, He was set for a manly race. But the roads stretched east and the roads stretched west, And the lad knew not which road was best. So he chose the road that led him down, And he lost the race and the _ victor's crown. He was caught at last in an angry snare; Because no one stood at the crossroads there To show him the better road. Another day at the selfsame place, A boy with high hopes stood; He, too, was set for a manly race, He was seeking the things that were good; But one was there who the road did know And that one showed him which way to go. So he turned from the road that would lead him down, And he won the race and the victor's crown. He walks today the highway fair Because one stood at the crossroads there To show him the better road. God inspire parents and all teachers, and leaders of quorums and auxiliary organizations, all organizations in the Church, to stand at the "crossroads," and lead youth onward and upward along the way of truth and integrity into the presence of God, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.