Handiwork for Christmas as neal Any hard-shelled nuts, such as walnuts, pecans, hazelnuts, Brazil nuts, acorns, horse chestnuts. Large and small hard pine cones. An electric drill set in a vise, with a small finishing nail inserted inStead of the drill. Stiff wire cut in 2% inch pieces, A jigsaw to cut through the pine cones. Florist pins that look like this or stiff wire formed in the same shape. Eb A commercial clue. Three yards of 214 or 3% inch MOSs green velvet ribbon. After your materials are assembled, either Wrap the circle wreath with green plastic ribbon, or spray paint it to conceal the white color. Next, holding a nut firmly in one 912 by Florence C. Williams push the nuts and pine cones into the styrofoam circle placing them as close together as possible in order to conceal the basic circle. When you have covered the front of the wreath completely, stick a heavy Wire into the back for hanging. To preserve your wreath for many years, spray it with clear plastic, which also gives it a lovely sheen. Make four or five loops of green velvet ribbon, tie it and insert it into the wreath with a florist pin. It IS now ready to hang on your front door, above your mantle, or it can be used as a centerpiece for your Christmas table. Mother happened to have three handsome brass bells which she placed in the center of her wreath before hanging on the door knocker. Color Transparency by Hal Rumel Christmas Wreaths The other wreaths pictured here were made in the same manner. However, in both these wreaths, various kinds of artificial frujt were used, as well as soft pine cones (both natural and sprayed gold), and colored Christmas balls. Around the edges of one, fresh holly was stuck into the wreath with florist pins. The other one is fin- => & Transparencies by Arthur Gritfin Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. Ished with Euonymus leaves. Why not try pine or cedar? As you walk in the fields and canyons nearby, open your eyes to the things around you, such as dried seed pods and weeds, and you can make your wreath an original creation to enjoy for many years. TARTING with the bag nestled in the pine branch directly below the candles this bag would make a lovely gift to be used for evening wear. Shop for an inexpensive cloth clutch bag, or if you have one of which you have grown tired, reline and recover it yourself. The one pictured here is black silk. In her ribbon box, Mother found quarter-inch velvet ribbon in shades of purple, green, and fuchsia, and one-inch black brocade ribbon embroidered with small field flowers. Using pins, and starting about 1/4 Baskets and Bags inches in from the side of the purse, she applied five rows of the varicolored velvet ribbon, tucking the ends under the band at the top, and going completely around the bag. Next, she glued the velvet ribbon in place. The brocade ribbon came next, then three more rows of the velvet ribbon, a repeat of brocade, another set of velvet, one more row of brocade, and last, the five rows of velvet ribbon. If there is not a band at the top of the bag to hide the edges, a piece of fine round braid may be glued on to cover the ends of the ribbons. Rummage through your ribbon box and dis- 914 cover the many attractive combinations you can assemble. The next bag (hanging below the candles), with the brightly colored flowers embroidered with a satin stitch and buttonhole stitch, is truly a work of art. Mother bought an ordinary tapestry bag for $5 and began working on it several months ago. She would pick it up in the evening while watching television, or carry it toa party. While sitting and chatting, she would take out her needle and embroider a flower or even a leaf. What an heirloom this will be. The first basket on the rim of the sofa (at the left) has been fun to use at Christmas, for her grandchildren know "Nanny" has a surprise for them when she goes to visit with iton her arm. It isa roomy, wicker basket with two jolly stuffed holiday figures sewed on, plus a row of gay red braid to trim the bottom. For a gardening friend, the next basket (center) makes an appealing gift. Made of shiny reed, it is filled with seed pods of the Oriental poppy. To make this, cut a piece of florists' oasis, or any other porous material to fit the shape of the basket. Leaving various length stems on the dried pods, push them into the oasis until the desired arrangement is achieved. A bright yellow bird perched atop the handle adds a note of spring. The circus basket (at the right) Color Transparency by Hal Rumel would be fun for someone planning a resort vacation. Spray a basket white, cut out circus animals of brightly colored felt, and glue them to the purse. Each animal could be decorated with discarded pieces of jewelry. To complete the illusion, add strips of gold braid to resemble the bars of a cage. The three small bags resting on the back of the sofa are made in the same manner as the first bag described. They were bought for $1 each in the basement of a department store. The red and white bags at the ends are especially treasured by the young girls in our family, for the figured Tyrolean braids decorating, the bags look well with both school clothes and afternoon ski outfits. The braid and ribbon on these three bags cover the entire purse. Plastic bags could not be used as the glue will not hold. One of the two burlap bags is lined with red, the other with orange broadcloth, with zippers inserted into the lining of each for a money purse. Mother trimmed the inside of the handles and finished the top of the lining with two-inch Swiss braid. The strips of burlap are sewed together with a zigzag stitch. To decorate the bag at the left Mother embroidered large pompons of colored yarn. The other burlap bag (at the right) has just returned from a jaunt to Europe, where it must have felt right at home, as it 916 is covered with peasants made of yarn, giving it an old-world look. Speaking of evening, what could be lovelier for your own daughter than her first party bag done in strips of baby blue velvet and soft blue and gold brocade ribbon, such as the one in the picture (on sofa at left). And now, why not a Christmas shopping bag for you? The large black felt one in the center will put you in a holiday mood, with its Christmas carolers and tree cut out of felt and appliqued with glue. Mother made the large red sewing basket (on sofa at right) for me several years ago, and I must say it always seems to be full. Find a durable basket, spray it bright red, and line it with red and white checked gingham with an attractive edging of scalloped blue felt inserted. Shape the lining to the sewing basket and sew it on by hand. A _ heart-shaped gingham pocket, trimmed in the same scalloped felt, is attached to the lining. Red felt geraniums, with green leaves, are cut with pinking shears, and sewed to the handle and rim of the basket. A 1/4 yard long tube of green felt is tied in a bow on the handle. From the ends protrude a bright red darning egg and pin cushion. Glued to the edge of the basket is a tiny farmer sitting in his wagon, looking to see if his clothes have been mended. HRISTMAS will be more festive in our house this year because of the pine cone and nut tree which Mother made for us. We will place it on a Chinese red lacquered compote which is centered in a wreath also made of nuts and pine cones, and use it on a low round table in the living room. Around the tree will be branches of freshly cut pine which have been fireproofed so we can tuck bright red candles here and there. What a warm and fragrant spot to gather for our stories and music on Christmas Eve. Gala Holiday Tree If you have studied the directions for making the nut wreath, it will be easy to make a tree for your home. From your florist or display house, obtain a styrofoam cone. These cones come in various sizes, and should be sprayed either green or brown, or wrapped with green plastic ribbon. If necessary, you can make a cone of chicken wire and moss, being careful to keep a true cone shape. Prepare the nuts and pine cones in the same manner as for a wreath, and push them into the styrofoam cone, beginning at the bottom. It is more attractive to use a full row of pine roses to start the tree. Next, place the nuts on the tree in groups of three, adding pine cones here and there, until you reach the top. To finish, place a pine cone rose on the top. Color Transparency by Hal Rumel When making any of her Christmas decorations, Mother accomplishes much more by drilling, gluing, or assembling whenever she has ten or fifteen minutes to spare, rather than trying to finish the product at one sitting. The tree can be an exciting family project and one that boys as well as girls will enjoy.