VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 46 — "He Who Has Repented of His Sins, the Same Is Forgiven, 932 more satisfying and useful lives? The process of repentance has been said to consist of the application of the four "R's." These are, recognition, remorse, resolve, and restitution. Certainly, the first step in true repentance consists in a genuine recognition of our faults. After recognizing our mistakes, the next step follows naturally, we must be sorry and regret them. Then comes a genuine desire and resolve to eliminate them and, finally, to make full and complete restitution. President Joseph F. Smith expressed _ this thought beautifully when he said:... True repentance is not only sorrow for sins, and humble penitence and contrition before God, but it involves the necessity of turning away from them, a discontinuance of all evil practices and deeds, a thorough reformation of life, a vital change from evil to good, from vice to virtue, from darkness to light. Not only so, but to make restitution, so far as is possible, for all the wrongs we have done, to pay our debts, and restore to God and man their nghts — that which is due to them from us. 'This is true repentance, and the exercise of the will and all the powers of body and mind is demanded, to complete this glorious work of repentance; then God will accept it (Journal of Discourses. Vol. 19, page 190). According to an ancient account, a man in a far eastern country was caught stealing. As a part of his punishment a large "S" was branded on his forehead. Applying the great gift of repentance, this man overcame his sin and lived a life of virtue and service in his community. Some years later a stranger asked one of his friends the meaning of the "S" that had been burned into this man's forehead. The friend replied, "I don't really know, but judging by his life, I'm sure it must stand for 'Saint.' " Every day we live there is room for' repentance. Every one of us needs constantly to be cleansed by this purifying principle, for we read, "... There is not a just man upon earth, that doeth good, and sinneth not" (Eccl. 7:20). The apostle John re-emphasized this truth when he said, "If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us" (1 John 1:8). Probably one of the greatest difficulties we encounter in repenting lies in the rationalization of our socalled "little sins." Most of us have consciences that are sufficiently sharp to bring us remorse when we | make big mistakes. Our "little" sins, however, such as jealousy, malice, gossip, and similar weaknesses are easy to rationalize, cover up, and forget. If we truly are going to repent, we should follow the admonition of the ancient apostles when they said to lay aside "all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil speakings" (J Peter 2:1) and "Put on therefore kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering; forbearing one another, and forgiving one another" (Col. 3:12-13). Repentance has a purifying power because associated with it and as a fundamental part of it, is the glorious principle of forgiveness. As the Lord has promised in The Doctrine and Covenants, "he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more" (D & C 58:42). Milton has said that forgiveness and repentance are "the golden keys that open the palace of eternity."