LITERATURE e America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 38 — Herman Melville (1819-1891) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 512-537) For Third Meeting, Objective: To become acquainted with Melville as man and as American that we mav better understand the close relationship between his life and his writings. ERMAN Melville, born in 1819 in New York City, was reared there and in Albany, New York. His mother was Maria Gansevoort — New York City Dutch, saturated with centuries of tradition, regal and stern in money and pride. She was proud of her patriot ancestors. Her parents were conscientious members of the Dutch Reformed Church. She inherited their piety and was strict in her religious observances all her life. 'This religious orthodoxy left an impres- 936 sion upon young Herman though he later turned away from it. Herman worshipped his father, Allan Melville, who loved travel and was a merchant in elegant imports and fineries. During a business depression he became bankrupt before Herman was in his teens. Bravely he tried to provide for his family but he died from overwork and worry in 1832 leaving his responsibilities to his widow and eight children. 'The shock of being the beholden poor relatives in complete contrast to their former security stunned young Herman who was forced to leave school for office jobs, boarding about as a_ rural schoolteacher and finally, at eighteen, shipping as a cabin boy aboard a merchant vessel bound for Liverpool in 1837. This incident, sometimes thought of as an escape from hardship, was more romantic than real. Actually his mood was understood, and _ his departure planned by his widowed mother and his envious but helpful brothers who went down to New York to make the necessary arrangements. The cowardice and inhumanity of the wealthy cabin passengers aboard the vessel outraged his sense of fairness and human brothethood. On his arrival in Liverpool, still resentful and confused at the disturbing change in his fortunes, he attempted to guide himself through the city by the map his father had used thirty years earlier, but learned after wandering through "the black spot on the river Mersey" with its abject poverty and degraded misery that "the thing that had guided the father could not guide the son." 'Thus young Mel HERMAN MELVILLE From a Painting by Goff Dowding Reproduced by Permission of Wheelwright Lithographing Company ville, in his untried innocence, fell from the security of family pride into a violent awareness of the evils of his time which became an even stronger reality, one of the great themes of American literature. Following his return home he taught school at intervals in New York. This he disliked; it did not prove congenial with the things he really wanted to do. Pioneer of the Exotic Mystic Pacific The spirit of westerning, which has been the germinal force of our American greatness and character, applied to western waters as well as to western lands. The Sandwich (now the Hawaiian) Islands. Were discovered by Captain Cook in 1778 during the American Revolu- LESSON DEPARTMENT ion; in 1788 the first British settlement, a penal colony, was established where Sydney, Australia, now stands. Some sixty years later Melville discovered the vast Pacific for literature when, on January 3, 1841, he shipped at New Bedford, Massachusetts, aboard the whaling ship Acushnet for the South Seas. He was twenty-three, one of 18,000 Americans seeking whales. On 735 American vessels out of goo whalers then afloat on the oceans of the world. Whaling was one of the vigorous young Nation's major industries, adventurous, lonely, rough, dangerous, but immensely profitable to the crews and ship-owners whose vessels returned, every barrel filled with precious spermaceti oil from which the best candles were made. But crew mortality was high. Composed of "the bottom-dogs of all nations and races, one-half were green hands such as Melville, and more than two-thirds deserted every voyage." If the vast west, stretching endlessly to the Pacific was huge, the Pacific which bordered these unspoiled, empty, wealthy lands was ten times more so. Optimism, expansion, desire for space, free lands and oceans, dominated young Melville as they did his countrymen. The pioneering credo known as Manifest Destiny surged strong in the impassioned young writer: God has predestinated, mankind expects, great things from our race; and _ great things we feel in our souls. The rest of the nations must soon be in our rear. We are the pioneers of the world; the advance-guard, sent on through the wilderness of untried things, to break a new path in the New World that is ours. In our youth is our strength; in our inexperience, our wisdom. At a period when 937 other nations have but lisped, our deep voice is heard afar.... And let us always remember that with ourselves, almost for the first time in the history of earth, national selfishness is unbounded _philanthropy; for we cannot do a good to America but we give alms to the world. The Acushnet was better than most ships, but when its luck changed for the worse Melville began to find conditions intolerable. Accordingly, he and one of his shipmates, "Toby" Green, deserted in a harbor of the Marquesas Islands on July 9, 1842. 'They sought refuge among the natives who were reputed to be ferocious cannibals. Although they held Herman a prisoner after "Toby" escaped, they were friendly and free from the economic worries of civilization. On August 9, an Australian whaler rescued him. Conditions on the new ship turned out to be even worse than on the Acushnet. When it put in at the harbor of 'Tahiti, Melville again escaped to a neighboring island. After two weeks' wandering about the island, he was picked up by a Nantucket whaler and taken to the Hawaiian Islands, May 2, 1843. Weary and homesick, he enlisted in the United States Navy for a voyage home on the frigate, United States. 'The voyage lasted for fourteen months. While it gave him a strong distaste for the floggings so often used in maintaining naval discipline, the ship provided him with a number of interesting companions with whom he corresponded and whom he never forgot. The crew arrived in Boston and was discharged on October 14, 1844. Early Novels In retrospect, Melville dated the beginning of his life from 1844, his 938 twenty-fifth year, when his seven years of intermittent sea-voyaging ended. Early in 1846 Typee, his first novel telling of his four-month stay among the friendly, happy cannibals of the Marquesas Islands in the South Pacific, made him famous over night. This was followed in 1847 by Omoo. The simple charms of Polynesian life detailed in Typee and Omoo created for Melville a wide audience. But Melville could not escape from seeing that the white man's entry into the great oceania brought to the hitherto peaceful islanders ruthless and violent pillaging, smallpox and _ social diseases, conflicts and frustrations within the natives' social, cultural, and religious lives, and he did not permit his readers to escape seeing these results. Mardi, published in March 1849, is also based on his South Pacific experiences but in it Melville changes his style to allegory and satire. Redburn, based on his voyage to Liverpool and published in September 1849, opposes the evils of the Liverpool slums and expresses concern over the horrible conditions in the immigrant's black hole below deck compared with the selfish comforts of the cabin passengers. In White Jacket, published in 1850, he voices his hatred of military medicine and surgical practices, constant severe floggings, and tyrannical military authoritarianism which he witnessed as a common seaman while aboard the United States. As long as such abuses were allowed to exist Melville felt our Declaration of Independence with its guarantees of "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness' was a mockery. These early novels brought him popularity, fame, and money, but no lasting self-esteem. In his own scornful phrase he feared being remembered only as "The author of Typee and Piddledee'; instead, he yearned to write so "true" a novel that it would not make money. Moby-Dick, published in 1851, fulfilled that dream — perhaps all too abundantly. Other novels written and published after Moby-Dick are: Pierre (1852), a study of good and evil; Israel Potter (1855; Piazza Tales (1856), which include "Benito Cereno,' perhaps Melville's best short story; The Confidence Man (1857); Billy Budd (1924), a seafaring novel published after Melville's death and considered second to his masterpiece Moby-Dick. The Domesticated Author In 1844 Melville's distinguished family was delighted to have the bronzed young sailor safely home, and even more delighted with the exciting tales which he reeled off to them with animation and power. But after only two years at home, with the successes of Typee and Omoo now behind him, he had to borrow money to rent a large house in New York City in preparation for his marriage, August 4, 1847, to Elizabeth Shaw, daughter of Chief Justice Lemuel Shaw of Boston, perhaps the closest friend Herman Melville had ever had. But from the beginning of his married life Melville's family circle included his mother, his four unmarried sisters, and his brother and his bride, all for whom Melville felt full love and responsibility. Realizing how large his "family" was, it is not LESSON DEPARTMENT surprising to find Herman applying for a government position. Soon his first of four children was born. He went to England to insure best possible publishing arrangements for his books, then removed his family to "Arrowhead," a large farm just outside Pittsfield, Massachusetts, not far from Hawthorne, who became his confidant and _ literary stimulant. It was here that he wrote Moby-Dick and lived for thirteen years. Following the sarcastic and hostile reception accorded Moby-Dick, Melville's health beban to fail. In 1857 he sailed for the Holy Land and Europe, returning five months later restored in health and spirits. Unsuccessful in his attempts to gain consulships, Melville tried lecturing, but by 1860 he felt he was a failure in this as in all else.. In 1863 he moved once more to New York City where he worked as a customs inspector for almost twenty years, and where he lived in retirement until his death in 1891. Melville's Poetry During the last thirty-five years of his life Melville wrote little except poetry. His earliest printed poetry as we know it appeared in his third novel Mardi. Although we have no evidence of earlier poetic writing, we may _ reasonably assume that he had written verses before the ones printed in Mardi. Melville's wife wrote her mother in 1859: "Herman has taken to writing poetry. You need not tell anyone, for you know how such things get around.' Whatever meaning she intended to convey by this remark, it is fact that Mrs. Melville assumed the responsibility of 989 seeing through the press the volume he had prepared. Melville wished to have his poems published but feared the reaction of his readers. "The publication of a first volume though a matter of no moment to the world... Is still of some concern to the author," he wrote. Indeed, it was of such sensitive concern to Melville that he evaded the task of finding a publisher by taking passage for San Francisco on his brother's ship, the Meteor. Mrs. Melville, however, sought the help and opinion of Evart Duyckinck, the well-known editor of the Literaty World. His efforts were unsuccessful in securing a publisher, although he spoke favorably of the poems. 'This caused Mrs. Melville to write Mr. Duyckinck that she did not consider rejection by the publishers a true test of the merits of the writing. "I think infinitely more of your opinion of it, and feel some confidence in its worth, since it has been such a profound secret between Herman and myself for so long that I rejoice to have my own prejudice in its favor confirmed by someone in whose appreciation we can feel confidence." 'The loyalty and faith expressed in this letter are but one evidence of the devotion and encouragement which Elizabeth Shaw Melville gave to her husband during their lifetime together. The poems never appeared as planned. If he was sadly disappointed by the failure of his book to find a publisher, he tried to conceal it in the half jocular way in which he wrote his brother 'Tom, May 25, 1862, that a trunkmaker had taken the whole lot of it off his hands at ten cents a pound. He suggested if Tom were not "such a 940 devil of a ways off" he would send him a trunk lined with the stanzas as a presentation copy. He frequently referred to his poems in this depreciatory manner. When the Civil War began in 1861, Melville volunteered his services but he was rejected, even while his cousins of similar age were accepted and advanced in their military careers. However, the war moved him to affirmative action such as he had not known since Moby-Dick. In 1866 he published Battle Pieces, a collection of his poems prefaced by his fervent plea for a reconstruction policy of "doing as we would be done by," and of allowing no consideration to "tempt us to pervert the national victory into oppression for the vanquished." The pity and terror and irony of war he caught in such memorable examples as are found in our text, "The Portent" (page 536), "Misgivings" (page 536), "Shiloh" (page 537), and "The House-Top" (page 537). Clarel, A Poem and Pilgrimage in the Holy Land, was written shortly after he took up his duties as Customs Inspector for the Port of New York (1865). It was inspired by his own trip to the Holy Land and was written under extreme difficulties, with nerve-shattering labor. Only with the selfless devotion of Elizabeth to sustain his spirits was he able to give it shape. It remained unpublished until 1876 when, through the generosity of his Uncle Peter Gansevoort, it was given to the public. It was completely ignored by his readers. <A_ long, two-volume poem, it hopelessly bewilders the casual reader. It begins as a story of Clarel, a theological student, who becomes engaged to a young Jewess, Ruth. Following her father's death, he is forbidden by Jewish custom to see her so he leaves on a pilgrimage to the Dead Sea and Bethlehem. From here the story fades away into a description of places and a record of conversations on science, faith, and problems of the modern age. When the story finally reappears with the sudden discovery of Ruth's death, the emotion it might have aroused in us is lost for we have forgotten her. And yet, students of Melville seem to ponder over this work longer than any other, for it is the key to his thought in his later years. Here "he has it out with himself," coming at last to a fixed place where "he can stand for the rest of his days." We are rewarded, however, when we come to the Epilogue which concludes on a triumphant note: Then keep thy heart, though yet but illresigned — Clarel, thy heart, the issues there but mind; That like the crocus budding through the snow — That like a swimmer rising from the deep — That like a burning secret which doth go Even from the bosom that would hoard and keep; Emerge thou mayst from the last whelm- | ing sea, And prove that death but routs life into victory. In the last six years of his life Melville produced two other volumes of poetry, John Marr and Other Sailors (1888) and Timoleon (1891). Until he found himself anew in Billy Budd, written during the three years immediately preceding his LESSON DEPARTMENT death, Melville found his greatest creative release in poetry. Often uneven in quality, patched, and rough, nevertheless some of his works, such as "Art," and "Maldive Shark" achieve their own power to a degree not unworthy of Melville. ART In placid hours well-pleased we dream Of many a brave unbodied scheme. But form to lend, pulsed life create, What unlike things must meet and mate; A flame to melt a wind to freeze; Sad patience — joyous energies; Humility — yet pride and scorn; Instinct and study; love and hate; Audacity — reverence. These must mate And fuse with Jacob's mystic heart, To wrestle with the angel — Art. Like his friend Hawthorne, Melville knew full well the duality of life. To them the great challenge lay in condensing and unifying seeming opposites into one blending truth. While Melville did not always succeed in his poetic endeavors, the art which is the unexplicable secret of his prose is at once evident. It is necessary that we know Melville, the man, completely alive in the searing cross-currents of his time, that we might have background for a reading of Moby-Dick, which among other major forces is one of the greatest treatments of mortal pride and evil ever written. A simple, subtle statement of the relation of obvious brute evil to concealed, intellectual evil is found in THE MALDIVE SHARK About the shark, phlegmatical one, Pale sot of the Maldive sea, The sleek little pilot-fish, azure and slim, How alert in attendance be. From his saw-pit of mouth, from _ his charnel of maw They have nothing of harm to dread, But liquidly glide on his ghastly flank Or before his Gorgonian head; Or lurk in the port of serrated teeth In white triple tiers of glittering gates, And there find a heaven when peril's abroad, An asylum in jaws of the Fates. They are friends; and friendly they guide him to prey, Yet never partake of the treat — Eyes and brains to the dotard lethargic and dull, Pale ravener of horrible meat. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Enumerate some of the experiences of Melville's early life which influenced his writings. 2. In the poem excerpts included in this lesson do you think clarity of expression was the most important characteristic? 3. What did Elizabeth Melville contribute to Melville's success as a writer? Note: Clarel is a two-volume narrative poem. Class leaders are not expected to read this poem in order to present the lesson.