Bread By Shirley Rei Gudmundsen And some there are That stand and serve The bread of each day's necessity To the hungry world, And smile? Knowing its hunger And its need. Ah?you wonder, then, At the fine cruelty of excellence P? That he who hungers most Should serve the best! Developing the Moral Judgment A JOINT RESPONSIBILITY OF HOME AND SCHOOL Radio Address Given over KSL in January, 1929 By Dean Milton Bennion, University of Utah Many people, young and old, go wrong because they do not think straight, and especially because they fail to foresee the consequences of what they do. In every field of business and professional activity such foresight is, at least under modern conditions, absolutely essential to success. Thus some moral phases of vocational activities may come into the focus of attention because they are inevitably associated with vocational success. In practice, however, this works in opposite ways. With unscrupulous individuals it may lead to immoral practices on the assumption that such practices further success. Thought Controls the Moral Life It is in the leisure time activities of individuals and of social groups, however, that distinctly moral or immoral habits are likely to be developed. It is also in these leisure time activities that conduct is apt to be most thoughtless. This may be because thinking is hard work, and leisure time activities are generally sought as means of relaxation. The remedy evidently lies in doing some preliminary work in deciding upon the kind and the consequences of the leisure time activities to be engaged in. If these are properly selected, some of them, at least, may be safely indulged in as relaxation. To what extent is systematic effort being put forth in the home to train young people in moral thoughtfulness? This queston should be answered for each family, and probably can best be answered by the parents if they will take time to check up on themselves. We shall undertake to suggest what they may and should do, with the help of their schools, toward developing this phase of education. There may be times when it is necessary to tell children dogmatically what they must do or refrain from doing. These occasions should, however, be reduced to a minimum. It should be the general practice to guide older children, and youth especially, by appealing to their understanding, by making clear to them the probable consequences, both immediate and remote, of various types of conduct and to develop in them a sense of responsibility for these consequences as they affect both themselves and others. It is evidently the lack of this training that is the cause of much  of the misconduct of the present generation, so much complained of. This statement is purposely made to include adults as well as youths. Officers charged with the enforcement of the laws know very well that much of the trouble is due to the thoughtlessness, irresponsibility, and selfishness of grownups as well as of the immature. Drunkenness Comes From Thoughilessness By way of illustration of such conduct consider the case of drunkenness. Has any one ever known of a young person who deliberately set out to become a drunkard? Or have all drunkards become sttch inadvertently and as a rule by seeking sociability and relaxation in their leisure time through moderate drinking with no thought of becoming drunkards? A scientific answer to this question might be sought by questionnaire and statistical methods. Probably an offhand reply may be regarded by some as very unscientific; but is there need of such scientific procedure to determine what every experienced observer already knows? May it not be taken for granted that the beginnings of drunkenness go hand in hand with thoughtlessness? In this connection it should be noted also that any use whatsoever of intoxicating drinks is to that extent intoxication, and that the foundation habit which results in what is commonly designated as drunkenness is formed during the period of early indulgences in such beverages. All young people and older people who may be tempted to such indulgence, should be led to understand and picture clearly to themselves the evil consequences both to themselves and to others of the use of alcoholic beverages, In pre-prohibition times the physiological consequences were taught in the schools. Since then evidently too much dependence has been placed upon the mere force of the law, which force is greatly weakened when numerous people fail to see the justice of the law and the beneficent effects of its general observance. It is these effects that should be systematically taught in both home and school. The physiological effects are, of course, important, but manifestly less so than are the economic, mental, and social effects of this type of self-indulgence. Any person of ordinary intelligence and reasonable degree of self-control who can be led to picture in imagination the ruinous consequences of such indulgences will gladly obey the prohibition laws of the state and the nation. When this result can be attained through the combined educational efforts of the home, school, and church, the problem of law enforcement, in this particular, will be solved. Bootleggers cannot do business without patrons. Morality Arises from Self-Restraint The same method may be applied to the problem of sex relations, with emphasis, however, upon the positive values attainable DEVELOPING THE MORAL JUDGMENT 479 through such relations when properly made as permanent life relations and subject to proper restraints?such restraints as will conserve the highest good of the race and the lasting satisfaction of the individuals immediately concerned. Young people should be led to think of their own future possibilities as life companions of persons of the opposite sex and, in this connection, of the possible joys of home and family relationships. In the light of these prospects the destructive forces of prostitution and other illicit sex relations become almost self-evident. Yet there may be occasions when it is advisable to direct attention specifically to the evil consequences of unchastity. Because this is generally regarded as a very delicate subject and one that calls for great wisdom in treatment it has been much neglected both in the home and in the schoo!. It is now conceded in theory that the home should be primarily responsible for this phase of education, and that the school should supplement home training and instruction as best it can.* How to Train in Truthfulness A moral education problem of universal concern to parents is that of training young people in habits of truthfulness. Can this be done successfully by mere command to be truthful or by the fear of punishment for lying? Students of this question are thoroughly convinced that it cannot. On the contrary, fear of punishment may have the reverse effect. Children will very commonly acquire the habit of lying as a protection against punishment. Many confirmed liars are doubtless made in this way. Fear of the natural and inevitable consequences of wrong doing doubtless has a proper place in moral training, but fear of humanly imposed consequences which there is a chance of escaping by lying is likely to be more harmful than helpful to moral development. Training the child to be truthful calls first for a relationship of love and confidence between parent and child together with a developing understanding on the part of the child, as he matures, of why it is wrong to lie. The reasons grow out of the social consequences of lying on the one hand, and of truth telling, on the other. It is easy for youths and older children to understand these consequences; how lying tends to break down confidences and undermine the foundations of all business and satisfactory social relations. The proper test of any type of conduct is to consider its social consequences were it made universal, and then to apply Kant's fundamental principle of conduct: "So act that thou canst will as a rational creature that thy maxim become a universal law of conduct;" or try the golden rule. Kant's form of stating this Both parents and teachers may obtain helpful suggestions from the American Social Hygiene Association, 370 Seventh Avenue, New York City. Some bulletins of this organization are sent free on request, while others are sold on a cost or less than cost basis.  principle may be too ponderous for the immature minds; the golden rule may not appeal to a selfish mind; but surely any normal mind of high school age can understand what would happen to society, and especially to business, if every one became a liar. With this assumption in mind he should readily arrive at a judgment of why it is wrong to lie. The same procedure may lead to approval and commendation of truth telling as a moral standard. It is absolutely essential to human welfare and to social progress. There remains, of course, the task in this as in other cases, of developing the feelings of the child in such a way that he will habitually act in agreement with his moral judgment. Respect for property rights and the prohibition of theft may be treated in similar fashion. Children very early and apparently very naturally assert their rights to their own property although they do not so readily recognize similar rights of others. In this case there is especial need of developing in each child understanding of the golden rule as applied to property; this rule may later be encuged to other forms of conduct where its application is less obvious. Attaining Harmony at Home A home problem of almost universal concern is that of inharmonious relations between children in the home. It is not unusual to hear a mother tell of the terrible quarrels and hateful attitudes manifest on the part of a fourteen year old boy toward a sister near the same age, and to note the consolation that comes to many such mothers when they are told that theirs is no unusual family experience. Perhaps the greatest comfort to parents, however, is to be given some assurance that the children will probably outgrow it. The facts seem to be that they may or they may not; something should be done to help them outgrow this habit, for such it often becomes. It is so much an outgrowth of deep seated feeling that development of rational judgment with respect to it, on the part of the child, seems almost hopeless. The best chance of doing this, however, is not usually in the heat of passion on the part of either the parent or the child; nor is such judgment best developed in public or in the presence of the exciting object. It had better be undertaken in private with one child at a time and in moments of emotional tranquility. Persistent efforts of this sort may, in due time, make an impression. Meantime measures of some sort need to be taken to prevent perpetual family turmoil, serious damaging of dispositions, both of children and of parents, and other possible disastrous consequences to mental health.