Recompense By Estelle Webb Thomas Miss Anne Hallowell was thirty-five years old; and even it she had wished to conceal the fact, which she never did, but which women since Eve have been accredited with doing, it would have been as impossible a feat in Mapleton as to have tried to keep secret the year Columbus discovered America, or the equally important year that the Mapleton dam went out. For one thing there was always old Granny Blevins, who at any time could push her spectacles up on her forehead, count up on her fingers and say, "Let me think?Anne's thirty-five, twenty-first December. My, that was a blizzardy night! I well remember how Mr. Hallowell came a-stampin' and a-knockin' at my front door?," and there wasn't a young matron in town who had not said, '"Let's see, now, Anne Hallowell's from December to June?or some such matter?older than I am. My goodness, who'd have thought that Anne would have been the old maid of the bunch!" And the children?it had become a formula to ask Miss Anne's age each fall when school opened, as though she were a stranger of whom one had never heard and then give the inevitable answer, "My land! You that old? Why, you're as old as my mother, and purty near as old as my dad. Ain't it funny you ain't never got married!" Miss Anne would listen abstractedly and murmur, "Isn't, Jack, not ain't!'' While perhaps some adoring little girl smoothed over Jack's crudities with the whisper, "I'm a-going to be an old maid school-teacher when I get big, just like you, Miss Anne!" And then Phil Morton knew. "Two years, two months, two weeks, and two days older than you, Anne!" - He had said it so often that it said itself now, whenever he thought of Anne. He had said it the day he was old enough to go to school, when Anne had had to wait an interminable two years. He had said it when they were high school sweethearts, and on that memorable occasion when Anne had shyly promised to marry him when they both got old enough. He had said it again, ruefully, when Anne had broken that childish engagement and said without bitterness that she would be an old, old lady before she would be free to marry, and he had said, "'I'll still be two years, two months, two weeks and two days older than you, Anne, so it will be all right." But Anne had been firm and Phil had for a time brooded darkly, nursing what he thought was a badly broken heart. But a young man in that romantic condition is an easy mark for Cupid, RECOMPENSE 485 and not without some surprise Phil found himself engaged to be married to pretty, round-faced little Alma Jennings. Alma was a good wife, a model wife, in fact; and if Phil's conduct was not always irreproachable, it was not for want of wifely counsel. Of course, Phil was happily married. He would have been the last person to deny it; but sometimes, sitting in church by his plump little wife and three round-faced children, he would glance speculatively across the aisle at Anne's clear profile, her dark eyes intent on the preacher, her brown cheeks flushed, and wonder, idly, what 'life with Anne would have been. As she wearily plodded through melting snow-puddles under naked shade trees, on this afternoon in early spring, Anne Hallowell was thinking of those long-gone days. It was seldom in these later years that she had time or even inclination for such reminiscencing, but it had all been resurrected today by the return to his home town for one brief day and night of the famous explorer and scientist, Dr. Stanley Davies. "The fellows" were giving him a "Do" at the town hall that evening, and he had called at her schoolroom to see Anne at recess, and incidentally to renew the offer he had made so long ago. Eighteen years! She had been just seventeen when young Stanley Davies, fresh from college, with many honors and more ambitions, had been attracted by her distinctive charm and courted her with the same intensity he gave to anything that claimed his attention. But although she had felt flattered, and any girl in Mapleton might have thought herself fortunate to have captured Stanley, it had been Phil who had held her girlish fancy then. And she had never seen Stanley since the night of her regretful refusal until today. Today in the dusty, prosaic schoolroom, with the cold, pale spring sunlight through the murky window bringing out all the lines in his clever face, the portly, successful man, incredibly matured in mind and body, who had called with no intention save the friendly renewal of an interesting acquaintanceship, had, as unexpectedly to himself as to Anne, rather diffidently and tentatively, renewed his boyish proposal instead. Anne was so different from what he had been expecting! So complete a fulfilment of what her vivid girlhood had promised. How the life of an "old maid school-teacher" in Mapleton could have so developed her, he could not imagine; but somehow, this Anne seemed just as desirable to the middle-aged scientist as that long-ago maid had been to the callow college youth. He took the second denial more philosophically, however, than he had the first, and assured Anne warmly, more than once, that he was at her service if ever the time came when he might prove his friendship. He little guessed, nor did Anne, how soon she would ask him to redeem his promise. A sumptuous automobile, better than those commonly in use  in Mapleton, sped by, splashing mud on Anne as it passed near the unpaved sidewalk. Anne had a brief glimpse of a beautiful, discontented face before it was gone. The doctor's wife was nome again. Almost simultaneously there came from the little corner drug store a shriek of laughter followed by a lower chuckle in a boy's voice. Through the open doorway she could see the doctor's son, Richard, absorbed in the attractions of bold-eyed, painted Peg Bunting. Peg, a product of the vague section known as "the other side of the track," had been a problem all through the brief period of her school days, and almost from her babyhood had enjoyed the title of "fastest girl in Mapleton." She was older, and how infinitely wiser in the sort of knowledge in which she specialized than Richard Weston, and it was with a feeling of almost physical nausea that Miss Anne saw the boyish, high-bred face so near and so absorbed in the cheaply pretty, sensual one so temptingly near his own. There was a stricken expression on Anne Hallowell's own face as she went slowly on down the dreary sidewalk. It was true then, what she had heard whispered or hinted with giggles and winks and meaning glances, that Peg Bunting had "caught" Richard Weston. Little Richard, whose birth had meant for her a travail far greater than his mother had known, whose baby face had always so strangely stirred her, and whose every childish scrawl, with all the little gifts that proved his devotion, she had treasured during his first years of school. She remembered jealously when other interests, incidental to his normal boyish development, had supplanted her in his affection. He still spoke nicely and courteously when he met her as was to be expected from the son of Dick Weston and aristocratic Elizabeth Van Veering; but it had been years since he had actually seen her. As she turned into her own gate and entered the little white house which was the only home she had ever known, Anne's face automatically cleared. Her step was brisk and her smile warm as she stepped into the little living room. Her mother, as usual, sat by the fire, a knitted shawl around her narrow shoulders, her work basket by her side; but her thin, white hands were idle in her lap. At Anne's entrance she looked up with a worried frown. "Anne, can you pick up my stitch for me? I must have dropped it hours ago, and haven't been able to find it since; I'll never catch up with my knitting!" That accounted for her unaccustomed idleness. Anne could hardly remember a waking moment in the last ten years that those thin, white fingers had not been knitting?relentlessly knitting a cocoon, within which they were both being shut from life and reality. It had been fifteen years since Mrs. Hallowell's bodily health had failed, ten since her mind had gradually returned to RECOMPENSE 487. Childhood and she had become Anne's first and almost only consideration in life. Anne picked up the lost stitch now, thus restoring her equanimity, then changed into a gingham house dress and went methodically about her preparations for their early supper.; She toasted bread over the coals her mother had been nursing to the right heat for the last half hour, made tea, and spreading with a clean, white cloth the low table which a few moments before had held her mother's work and the pictures over which she liked to pore as a rest from her knitting, she set it with delicate old china?the tea, toast, and a jar of marmalade. Her mother, with the appetite of a delicate child, merely pecked at the food, and Anne, in her sad abstraction, ate scarcely more. The meal over, she gently washed the wax-like face and hands, brushed the still lovely hair, and carried the little, old child as tenderly up the stairs as ever mother took an ailing child to bed. Down in her living room again, Miss Anne hesitated a moment, - then went swiftly to the telephone in the corner and called the doctor's residence. "Dr. Weston?" she asked in a crisp, impersonal voice when her call was answered. "Mrs. Weston," came the answer in the soft, cultivated drawl of the doctor's wife, "the doctor is preparing to go out this evening. Was it something professional?" "Yes, and urgent!" replied Anne, quickly. "May I speak to him for a moment?" "I'll see." Mrs. Weston's tone was icy, but Anne waited, holding the receiver patiently until her message should be delivered. "You, Dick?" she said, when presently his unmistakable deep tones came over the wire. 'This is Anne. I must see you tonight. Can you come at once?" She did not think to apologize for interrupting his plans for the evening, nor did he notice the omission; he supposed her mother was suffering one of her frequent nervous hysterias; and with a brief, 'Yes, at once," hung up the receiver. It seemed but a few moments to Anne, waiting by the open fire, before his step sounded in the little hall. Amd indeed he had hurried. The thought of Anne facing those rending scenes alone was always terrible to him. At sight of her calm, pale face and the quiet room his own face expressed astonishment. "What is the matter?" he asked almost sharply. "Where is your mother?" "Asleep. It isn't Mother," said Anne in her low voice. "Sit down, Dick, I want to talk to you." The doctor obeyed automatically, never taking his eyes from her face. Anne leaned forward. "Dick," she said, her tone almost accusing, "do you know where Richard is tonight?" The doctor paled and a worried frown creased his brow,  "No," he confessed, after a moment; "I wish I did. Something has?Richard is changed. I?can't seem to get at him any more. I am away so much?and he seems to be always out or going out when I am at home." His frown deepened. "If his mother was ever home?she came this afternoon, and you'd have thought he would have wanted to spend this evening, at least, with her; but he made some excuse and was gone as soon as dinner was over." It had been a relief to pour out his worry to Anne, and he had spoken with scarcely a pause; but now for the first time he seemed to sense the significance of her question. "Why, Anne, what?do you know where he is?" "Didn't you know, Dick, that he has been?been?" she hesitated for a word?"been seen constantly with the Bunting girl for the past month?" Nothing but Anne's voice and the expression in her deep eyes softened the bald statement. The doctor whitened. Richard! His clean, fresh lad with his frank, innocent eyes! "Not that?that? bad girl across the tracks?" he almost whispered. "That girl," said Anne, her own face white. "Dick, we've got to get him away! I couldn't bear?nothing must happen to him. He's?he's got it in him to be something. Dick, listen! All afternoon I've been thinking?you know Stanley Davies is here?" "I was going to the banquet for him," said the doctor, impatiently, "but what about Richard?" "Richard has always been interested in exploration? crazy about it?read everything he could get hold of on the subject," said Anne swiftly, as though she was his mother. And indeed, she knew far more of Richard's mind and tastes than his mother did, and went on when the doctor made as though to interrupt her, "Stanley told me today he would always grant me any favor?surely, Dick, he would take Richard with him on this trip he's just undertaking!" "To Africa!" the doctor gasped. "Yes, to Africa! O, Dick!' Anne was pleading, her lovely eyes imploring his, her slim hands clutching his arm. "Can't you see? It has to be something drastic? Richard is too fine to be lost. If he only had?" she hesitated, then plunged on, "Don't misunderstand me?but Richard needed more home life; he hasn't been safely anchored, Dick!" "As if I didn't know that!' The doctor's face was bitter. "But she'll never consent to let him go, Anne. Although she only sees him for a few months each summer, she'll exercise her divine prerogative as his mother to prevent that?even if Stanley would take him," he added, doubtfully. "I'll arrange it with Stanley!" Anne spoke confidently, RECOMPENSE 489 and added urgently, "Go find him, Dick, and try it! His mother couldn't object when she sees how things are!" When the doctor had gone, Miss Anne again had recourse to the telephone. Dr. Davies was surprised and intrigued at receiving a call from Miss Hallowell just as he was leaving for the city hall. No, it would not be at all inconvenient to call at her home on his way, he assured her, wondering if by any chance she had really changed her mind. Well, his offer stood?but it would really take a lot of readjusting of his plans if he were to take a woman along on this next expedition. Still, Anne?a vision of her calm, understanding face?her deep eyes, rose before him, and he hurried into his overcoat. It was near midnight when the Hallowell doorbell rang for the third time that evening. Anne still sat before the fire, a book in her lap but her eyes on the coals. There was an air of waiting about her and a controlled tenseness in her quiet figure. But it was her usual serene face she turned to the Westons when they entered, father and son, and one glance at their faces assured her of what she wished to know. "Well, we saw Davies, and he offered Richard a chance to go with him to Africa?even offered to stay over a day and wait for him!" The doctor said all in one breath, and then looked at Richard, standing rather awkwardly in the background. The boy stepped forward. "Miss Anne," he said, shyly, twirling his cap about in his hands as he spoke, and fcc the first time in years really appearing to see her, his frank eyes even looking the same adoration which used to be so inexpressibly dear to her, "Dad says you are the one to thank for this?this chance. It's great! It's something I've wanted all'my life! I?I?surely appreciate it ?and I can?tell you?I won't forget it!" His speech was painful and halting, but his look was something Anne Hallowell cherished to her dying day. "His mother is going to Europe with her mother and sister for the summer and perhaps longer," said the doctor, with a significant look, when Anne had put the boy more at his ease with some quiet, gracious reply. "So of course, she won't miss him as she would otherwise have done. It was really to s?e if I would consent to Richard's going that she came back so early." He paused, and Anne thought of the selfish woman who could not endure the hardships of the country town winters for the sake of her husband and son, and who was now going to fail them for the brief, beautiful country summer. "Mother was disappointed that I preferred going with Dr. Davies to a trip to Europe with Grandmother and her," interposed Richard, "but she doesn't understand what this  d means to me; you?you understand more about kids, Miss Anne, I guess because you've taught school so long! I'm afraid Dad is going to be lonely, though," he added, as a contrite afterthought, "all alone for a year or more; you'll not forget him, will you, Miss Anne?" "T''ll not forget him, Richard," promised Miss Anne, and the look she gave the elder Richard was recompense and balm for all the long and arid years before him.