"We must begin not with the adults whose habits and GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 507 ideals are set, but with children who are still plastic. We must begin with the children in the home, the street, and the playground."?Charles W. Eliot. "To guide first steps rightly is better than to alter false steps later." "Early years are the habit forming years." Nature of Obedience. A. Blind obedience. 1. Sometimes necessary on part of very young children because of inability to understand. 2. Sometimes necessary to God for same reason. Easy when necessary because of confidence in parents and in the Lord. B. Reasoned Obedience. "One of the chief services which the Master has rendered His followers is to redeem obedience from forbidding severity and to make it a glad and winsome loyalty. He has said, not 'Go! Obey!' but 'Come! Follow me!' " "The will should not be repressed, but stimulated and guided." "Child nature is not to be crushed, but directed and approved." "Parents should never drive their children, but lead them along, giving them knowledge as their minds are prepared to receive it. Chastening may be necessary betimes, but parents should govern their children by faith rather than by the rod, leading them kindly by good example into all truth and holiness."??-Discourses of Brigham Young, page 323. "Teach the people truth, teach them correct principles; show them what is for their greatest good, and don't you think they will follow in that path?'?Discourses of Brigham Young, page 348. "All that the Lord requires of us is strict obedience to the laws of life."?Discourses of Brigham Young, p. 348. "Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson? "That the rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers oi heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control, or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the  children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the Priesthood, or the authority of that man * * * "No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by persuasion, by long suffering, by gentleness, and meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile, reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; that he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death."?Doctrine and Covenants, Section 121:34-44). IV. Obedience is founded on law and knowledge and responsibility. A. Without law?physical and spiritual?reasoned conduct would be impossible. "Know the truth and the truth shall make ye free." b. Obedience founded on knowledge. We obey the doctor, our parents, etc., because of their superior knowledge. C. Obedience based on affection. The true foundation for obedience is the desire for the well-being of him who obeys. The desire for obedience based on affection only is usually selfish and should rarely be indulged. V. Understanding. True obedience aims at rendering the obedient free, independent, self-directing observers of the law?physical, legal, and spiritual. All other kinds of obedience are temporary and futile. Forced obedience is not constructive; it does not lead to character building. Obedience is a positive power in life and is essential in the building of a noble character. BIOGRAPHIES FOR LITERARY LESSONS Biographies to be studied in the 1929-30 Literary Lessons may be purchased from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, at the following prices, postpaid: Karl G. Maeser, $1.50; The Girl in White Armor, $2.50; An American Idyll, $1.75; A Son of the Middle Border, $2.50; The Lost Commander, $3.00; Joaquin Miller, $1.75; Schumann-Heink, $5.00; Life and Letters of Emily Dickinson, $4.00. (See also note at bottom of page 512.) GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 509 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in November) THE GIRL IN WHITE ARMOR By Albert Bigelow Paine Albert Bigelow Paine, author and editor, was born in New Bedford, Mass., July 10, 1861. He is a former editor of St. Nicholas and is a member of a number of exclusive literary clubs. Since 1893 he has been publishing essays, poems, and biographies rather steadily. Chief among his published biographies are "A Boy's Life of Mark Twain," "Mark Twain, a Biography," "A Short Life of Mark Twain," "Joan of Arc?Maid of France," in 1925, and "The Girl in White Armor," 1927. He was decorated Chevalier Legion of Honor (France) 1928. His home is in West Redding, Conn.?Facts from "Who's Who." Among the best known, the most revered, the most mystical characters of truth and fiction, that of Joan of Arc, the girl in white armor, will always stand preeminent. Cold scientists may scoff, unbelievers may howl, and the sophisticated may smile scornfully, but the Maid of Orleans stands calmly unmindful of them all. What she did is on record. Her deeds speak for her. In "The Girl in White Armor, the True Story of Joan of Arc," Albert Bigelow Paine has caused the maid to live once more, to walk through even this modern world, declaring that voices can reach through from the Unknown country and that they do have power to predict and save. We may marvel, we may doubt, but the cold facts remain. This girl of seventeen did follow the Voices, did save France, did crown her king. But shame and pity of it all, she did burn at the stake in the presence and with the sanction of the very people she had saved. In this volume of 312 pages, published by The Macmillan Company, Mr. Paine has drawn a picture of the Maid of Orleans that is as interesting as fiction. The book reads like a novel and yet rings true. Of course, in so brief an account of the Maid's activities, the entire picture of her times cannot be given; but enough can be shown to reveal the girl in her beauty and power, and her contemporaries in their loyalty and their wickedness. Beginning with an account of the Tree which played such an important part in the early life of Joan and in her miserable trial, Mr. Paine follows the story through all the great events of 1429, 1430, and 1431. In a concluding chapter he gives us  a travelogue through France, following the footsteps of the youthful French martyr. The story is incredible. Were it not vouched for and were it not based in every particular upon records that cannot be impeached, one would be inclined to doubt. For who, without weighty evidence, could believe that a maid born and reared in humble circumstances at Domremy, far from the centers of population of her country, could at the age of seventeen go before men trained in war and induce them to turn armies over to her command and in addition to follow her to hopeless battle? Who could believe that she could go before her exiled king and make him believe that she had heard the King of Heaven declare that he was to be crowned at Reims? And then, who could believe that she could endure hardship, face powerful enemies, drive out the alien English armies and free the cities according to her prediction? Last of all, who could believe that after anyone had done all this that the king whom she had crowned, the soldiers she had led, the poor she had comforted, the country she had saved, could be so ungrateful as to allow the friendless girl to be inhumanly imprisoned in terrible dungeons, heartlessly treated by the scum of the earth, and at last burned at the stake as a common witch? Yet, it is all true. The records made at the time prove it to the everlasting shame of France, England, and humanity in general. Albert Bigelow Paine, a gifted biographer and writer, has gone over the trail Joan made from her little village home, Domremy, through all the country round about to Rouen, where the maid yielded up her life. He has been in the towers where she slept and has visited the dungeons in which she was imprisoned, and through his gift of writing has given to the world another biography of the girl who has since been sainted and holds a sacred place in the hearts of all those who love romance and high spiritual achievement. In a straightforward manner Mr. Paine has recounted the high lights of the great story. With deft pen strokes he has pictured the essential acts in one of the unique dramas enacted upon the human stage. Cleverly he has woven in at strategic points in the narrative the exact words of various characters as they have been preserved in official records and personal diaries for these five hundred years. In so doing he has made his narrative less graceful than it might otherwise have been but infinitely stronger and more interesting. Touches like the following make the book unusual: "So we complete the picture of the little peasant girl: diligent, tender-hearted, devout; requiring duty of the bell-ringer, offering reward if he performed it; mingling with her companions yet GUIDE LESSONS OR NOVEMBER 511 finding alone a companionship they could not understand. Said one of these: ""Often while we were at play, Jeannette (Joan) drew apart and spoke to God. The others and myself teased her about it.' "Certainly she was different. Her priest of that time declared that there was not her like in the village." The picture Mr. Paine paints of the young girl struggling tu gain an audience with de Baudricourt and of the loyalty of Durand Laxart is one which cannot but impress all readers. That the biographer believed in "The Voices" as firmly as did Joan herself, there can be no doubt. Laxart, it seems, believed fully in the girl. Of him Paine says, "The nation of France owes a debt of gratitude to Durand Laxart." It seems to me that Jean de Metz and Bertrand de Poulengy should also share in whatever debt of gratitude is due the "honest Laxart," for had it not been for "those two high-hearted soldiers of fortune" the maid might have had more difficulty in reaching the king. The picture we have of the king, Charles VII, can hardly do other than fill us with disgust, although we must with our imagination attempt to reproduce the situation in order to be just to all. Were a girl seventeen years of age to come to one of our leaders at present with a tale as fantastic as that which Joan told, perhaps she would be received in no better manner. Had the king reached out his hand to save her or even to attempt to save her during that last trial we might have forgiven him al! Else. As it is, he must remain one of the most despised and despicable among men, sharing only with Cauchon, the Bishop of Bauvis. The combined censure of humanity. Joan was at her zenith when she entered Orleans. The girl in white armor with her sword of the cross carrying her great banner is the picture of her we all like best, perhaps, for at that time only did she have the undivided support and faith of her followers. Her power to foretell and her power to lead are both emphasized by Mr. Paine, who evidently believes that Joan was possessed of supernatural knowledge. His narrative taken from the records would seem to indicate that according to the well known test of a prophet, the maid was a prophet indeed; for time and time again did she reiterate her prophecies, and time and time again were they fulfilled to the letter. As we read, we are likely to wonder, if the Voices could direct her and could rout the armies of the English, why they could not save her from the awful fate she suffered; and thus one comes up against the mystery of life and its relationships. Why, we might ask in the same breath, was Christ allowed to be crucified and Joseph Smith to be shot? In fact, the same  question might be asked concerning all the martyrs since the world began. The details of Joan's imprisonment and trial are horrifying; but that they are true, there is no doubt. That is perhaps why in his foreword the author says, "The story of Joan of Arc is hardly a tale for young children, and, strictly speaking, this is not a children's book." Mr. Paine, however, relieves the narrative by constantly referring to the "Voices" which, no doubt, were a comfort to the beset girl. If there is in fiction a more terrible picture than that of Cauchon's "Beau Proces," as the trial of Joan was called, then I have not come upon it in my reading, Chapter Twenty, "Afterward," which tells the story of 'What came to Cauchon and Others," rather satisfies those of Mr. Paine's readers who have not quite reached the full stature of a Christian. Most readers, no doubt, subscribe sufficiently to the old Mosaic code to enjoy this working out of justice. Members of the class would, no doubt, enjoy Mark Twain's "Joan of Arc" and De Quincey's essay. Since in this year the world is celebrating the five hundredth anniversary of the great deeds of Joan of Arc, class leaders and teachers should have little difficulty in finding plenty of material about the Maid of Orleans. "The Girl in White Armor," however, is the work under consideration. Questions and Problems 1. Why is Albert Bigelow Paine well prepared to write a short biography of Joan of Arc, like "The Girl in White Armor''? Can you give reasons why Joan of Arc is worthy of world acquaintanceship? 3. What qualities make this book especially readable? 4. Can you see why such a girl as Joan of Arc should inspire many works of art in sculpture, painting, story, biography, etc? 5. Read De Quincey's essay on Joan of Arc. Note the tone of the piece. It can be found in De Quincey's Essays or a part of it can be found in Twelve Centuries of English Poetry and Prose. 6. Find what you can regarding Cauchon, Bishop of Bauvis. An American Idyll is not out of print as the August number of the Magazine stated. However, Noon, scheduled to appear in the January, 1930 issue of the Magazine, is out of print, but the lesson outlines on the other eight biographies (listed in August, page 453, and in September, with prices, page 508) will be arranged to cover the nine months' course. GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 513 JOAN OF ARC?SKETCH OF HER LIFE Albert Bigelow Paine begins his narrative of the life of 'Joan of Arc by telling of a great beech tree which overlooked the valley of the Meuse which was variously called 'Ladies' Lodge" and "Fairy Tree," because, according to tradition, the ladies of fairyland sometimes danced there. Around this great tree Joan, or Jeannette, as Joan was named, also danced there with the children of her time who hung garlands for the fairies on the tree. Joan of Arc was born January 6, 1412, in Domremy. Her parents were Jacques d'Arc and Isabelle Romee. Isabelle Romee was a devout Catholic and taught her little girl of her religion and told her stories of the saints. Joan grew to be a saintly little creature. One of her companions declared, "Often while we were at play, Jeannette drew apart and spoke to God." On August 17, 1424, news came to the village that the French army had suffered another defeat at the Battle of Verneuil. Shortly thereafter (she was then thirteen) Joan received "the first word of the work she was to do." "On a summer day," Mr. Paine says, at the hour of noon, in her father's garden, she saw toward the church a great light, and heard a Voice. * * * The Voice came from the direction of the light, 'a worthy Voice,' full of dignity. She was told to be a good child, that God would help her, and that she would go to the rescue of the King. And the angel spoke to her of "the pity (the sorrow) that was of the Kingdom of France." Telling of it later Joan said that she knew the Voice to be that of a celestial being?Saint Michael. She also saw a figure, accompanied by angels. She once spoke of their appearance at the spring below the Fairy Tree. Probably on that account the tree was mentioned frequently in her trial. Her visitants (she had them frequently) finally told her that she had been selected to save France, to crown the King and give him back his kingdom. "To the Saints Joan pledged her maidenhood 'for so long as it pleased God'; that is, until her mission was ended." On October 12, 1428, the siege of Orleans, a key city of France, was begun by the English. Joan could stand it no longer. Her Voices must be obeyed. She finally persuaded Durand Laxart, an uncle, to take her to Robert de Baudricourt, a powerful captain. She told de Baudricourt to tell the Dauphin to hang on and not to cease the war; that he would be made King and that she would conduct him to his coronation. "Who is your Lord?" de Baudricourt demanded. "The King of Heaven," was Joan's simple reply. De Baudricourt, unimpressed, told her to go home. Bertrand 514. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE de Poulengy, however, was impressed by her. Jean de Metz met her soon afterward and was so impressed that he said, "To thee, Joan, I, Jean de Novelompont, called Jean de Metz, pledge my knightly faith, and promise thee, God aiding, that I will conduct thee to the King." It was these two gallants de Poulengy and de Metz, who finally took the peasant girl to the King. The King received her hesitatingly, but soon she was placed at the head of an army that marched upon Orleans and saved it. The city joined in a great procession in honor of the Maid of Orleans. Later she joined in other campaigns, but she was at her height at Orleans. On July 17, 1429, five hundred years ago, Charles VII was crowned King of France in the cathedral at Reims, the same cathedral which figured in the World War. From this point Joan's star began to set. She was soon doubted, wounded, and at last captured by the English who had threatened her many times with a fiery death. She was held in captivity for weeks. At last, however, she was brought to trial before sixty judges in Rouen. Cauchon, Bishop of Beauvais, had charge. After days of trial and struggle, Joan was condemned and burned at the stake May 30, 1431. Later in the day her executioner said to friends: "I shall never be saved, for I have burned a holy woman." A churchman said, "Would God my soul were where I believe the soul of that woman to be."
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in November)
LESSON 17. CHANGES IN THE COURSES OF STUDY AND THE METHODS OF TEACHING IN THE SCHOOLS
(Based on Chapters 18 and 19 of The Child: His Nature and His Needs)
In the last lesson we discussed the changing objectives of American schools. In this lesson?which, it will be noted, covers two chapters in the book?we consider the changes that are taking place in the courses of study and the methods of teaching in the public schools of today. In the next lesson, which will be the last in The Child: His Nature and His Needs, we shall attempt to sum up and bring together the main points of the entire eighteen lessons.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER
As announced last month, the six lessons for January to June inclusive will survey The Field of Social Work. There will be no book required for this set of lessons; the outlines, however, will contain references to appropriate readings.
A. The Changing Course of Study
In comparison with European schools it is correct to conclude with the author of this chapter, that American schools are, in general, much more modern and less bound by tradition. Yet from the standpoint of the profound changes which are taking place in American social and economic life today, our schools are backward; they are changing their courses of study and their methods of teaching with painful slowness. In fact, this situation is the basis of a major criticism of American schools today. The truth, therefore, lies somewhere between these two extreme comments.
In some enlightened places, the schools are progressively adapting their efforts to the preparation of the child for the life he is probably going to live. These experiments have great significance and are being observed with a critical eye by school people generally. Many innovations, however, have been introduced under the guise of careful experimentation, and presumably after careful thought, but which turn out to be nothing more than spurious ways of "jazzing up" the curriculum. Who will not recognize the tendency?possibly in one's own community, so aptly described by a writer in the August, 1929, Century* as follows:
"Walk past a typical high-school building * * * Choose any hour of the day. * * * The broad demesne of this establishment is filled with the fleeting forms of children. The welkin rings with their shouts. The school band is discording a cheap march. Boys in decorated B. V. D.'s are batting balls * * Others in khaki and brass buttons are shouldering guns, beating drums and blowing bugles. On the other side of the grounds the girls are doing much the same thing * * * boys are applying wrenches to auto frames. Others are hammering the tops of cooky-boxes * * * yet more are feeding a hungry printing-press with good white paper that will soon whirl out covered with juvenile wise-cracks. Across from the tin-shop a group is preparing the musical program for the next 'pep' meeting that is to inspire the gladiators of Webster in their struggle with Longfellow. In the library, the executive committee of the Webster Parent-Teachers' Association is meeting to determine whether to put on a carnival or a minstrel-show to raise money for a new stage curtain. The library is closed to the few earnest students who have mistakenly believed that it is a place for books and study * * *,"
 
Genuine change, born of need and a careful analysis of the situation, is a much coveted thing in education. But the introduction of change merely for the sake of change is distinctly hazardous. The author has wisely emphasized the utilitarian principle now gaining currency in American education, that the school must prepare the child for actual life. However, let us see to just what extent this is true of education as we know it.
Take, in the first place, the matter of vocational education. Do our schools really prepare children for some vocation or other? True, we have some agriculture, some business courses and a little home-making in the high-school curriculum, but who would contend that this is a satisfactory, well-integrated scheme of vocational education? Furthermore, how much vocational guidance is offered the average secondary-school pupil? These same questions might be raised in regard to character education.
Take also the question of education for parenthood, more specially for motherhood. The traditional courses in hygiene, home-making, etc., are offered, to be sure, but does the high-school girl-graduate learn anything about home-nursing, children's diseases, mental hygiene of childhood, sex education, etc.?
Finally, we might mention the increasing importance of preparing children for the intelligent use of their leisure time. What, for instance, does the average public school do by way of systematically cultivating avocational habits and interests in its pupils? It does something, of course, but rarely does it do anything explicitly in this direction.
Of course, the vision of the "what to do" in education is obviously clearer than our understanding of the "how to do it." Most school people and boards of education would readily assent to these needs, but very few have the vision, the courage, the preparation or the financial backing to enable them to do what seems indicated.
Other Questions
1. What specific courses are offered to your children in the public schools that were not available in your day (or vice versa)? Is this difference an improvement? Why or why not?
2. How valid is the criticism that "we (in the U. S.) do not train our pupils to be students or scholars; we merely entertain them with a great variety of knowledge?"
3. Who determines the courses of study for the school children in your community? Are the wishes and opinions of parents ever consulted on such matters? Should they be? Explain.
*"What Makes Teachers Cranky?" by One of Them, August, 1929, Century, page 469.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 517
4. What constructive criticisms can you offer regarding the courses of study in the public schools of your community?
B. The New Methods of Teaching
Perhaps the most striking difference between the schools of today and those of a generation ago is the freedom and informality of present-day education. The over-strict discipline of a former day has gone. Nowadays, the child is encouraged to express rather than to repress his individuality in the class-room. The old problem of discipline, for instance, is easily dealt with in the modern school, not by threats of punishment, however, but by interesting the pupil. New skills are also achieved by new methods. For example, equal emphasis is placed on the silent as well as the oral reading ability of the child. Alongside memory training, the ability to think, to evaluate and to solve problems is emphasized. Moreover, children in the modern school not only read about a subject?such as history, for example?but they learn with the aid of projects involving music, dramatics, literature, etc. The schools of today are also well-equipped with laboratories, museums, maps, etc., all of which increase the efficiency of the learning process in general.
To some extent?although not as much as they should?children participate in their own management. Here the rudiments of citizenship can be taught and the art of living together learned in a dynamic way. The spirit and characteristic of the modern school is activity. The old "sit-still" education is happily passing. The good teacher knows that activity is synonymous with life and growth; that inactivity is mental and physical death, so to speak. The formal subjects such as grammar and arithmetic are nowadays made dynamic by the new methods in education which make free use of the play and competitive element. Occasionally there will also be found the school which makes discriminating use of those revolutionizing devices, the movie and the radio, in order to vitalize the subjects taught. During the last school year, for instance, many eastern school systems equipped their buildings with receiving sets so that the children might learn?direct from that great artist, Walter Damrosch, conductor of the New York Symphony Orchestra?the elements of music and music appreciation.
To know how to use these newer devices, and to be able to choose wisely from among the many psychological and mechanical aids to teaching which are clamoring for adoption, demands more intelligence, education and training on the part of the teacher than ever before. For this and other valid reasons, only competent well-paid teachers should be in charge of the schools of today.
 
Other Questions
1. What are the usual criticisms of American educational methods?
2. What is the Montessori method?
3. Do the schools in your community make any use of the moving-picture or the radio in conjunction with the teaching process?
4. To what extent do the pupils in your schools participate in self-government?
5. What constructive criticisms can you offer of the educational methods employed in the schools of your community?