HARRIS Three Generations of Brigham Young University Graduates Three Generations of "Y' Graduates By Harrison R. Merrill, Brigham Young University Approximately fifty years ago, up from the little town of Benjamin, located a few miles south of Provo, came Eunice Stewart to attend school at Brigham Young University. When she signed her name as a student that first day, perhaps she did not know that she was the beginning of a line of "Y" students among whom would be a president of the institution, and a granddaughter who would go to Mexico to teach in a community which she would later help establish. Approximately twenty-five years later, Franklin Stewart Harris, son of Dennison E. And Eunice Harris, found his way to Brigham Young University. There he labored diligently, in 1904 was graduated from high school, and in 1907 took a Bachelor of Science degree. Young Franklin, endowed with the spirit of his pioneer ancestors, and pressing beyond the intellectual frontiers in search of further knowledge, soon became nationally known in his chosen field of agronomy. He returned from Cornell to teach in the Utah Agricultural College, where his outstanding ability soon placed him at the head of the Experiment Station. Then his Alma Mater called. Dr. George H. Brimhall, having grown old and gray in the service of his school, deserved to spend some years of his later life free from the onerous cares which his position forced upon him. In looking for his successor the Church Board of Education found Franklin Stewart Harris and elected him president of his and his mother's school. President Harris brought with him to Provo a small family of children. They entered Brigham Young University; and this year, fifty years after his mother's graduation and twenty-five years, approximately, after his own, his daughter, Arlene, took her degree. Arlene has accepted a teaching position at Juarez, Mexico, the home town of her grandmother and her father. The end of the line is not yet, perhaps. A quarter of a century hence another with his or her middle name Harris may come up to the old school that has meant so much to the Harris family. On the fifty-third commencement day, Eunice Stewart Harris returned, June 5, last, to attend the graduation exercises of her granddaughter, and stood with her son, the president of the institution, and his daughter Arlene, to be photographed.  Of course, there are many other cases of three generations of "Y" graduates; but these were especially interesting since the three were practically a quarter of a century apart, and Franklin Stewart Harris happened to be president at the time of his daughter's graduation.