[Column 1]
giving fuller accounts of interesting social
events.
	June 4, 1908, the 40th anniversary of
the marriage of Brother and Sister W. B. Dou-
gall was celebrated in their handsome new
home N. State Street, in a most beautiful
way without ostentation or show. The
rooms were artistically decorated with roses
principally, as June is the month of roses.
Old friends were invited to participate in
the festivities, and many fervent congratu-
lations were offered as well as gifts and
blessings. The great feature of enjoyment
was the choice vocal and instrumental music
exquisitely rendered for the delectation of
the guests, the selections being made from
old masters. Another feature that will al-
ways mark the event as of great significance
was the eloquent prayer offered by Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, dedicating by re-
quest the new home of Brother and Sister
Dougall. The evening was rainy outside,
but within all was peaceful and enjoyable.
The bride of forty years wore her wedding
gown of long ago, and carried a bouquet of
bride roses, and looked as charmingly happy
as though she were in reality the young
bride. The bridegroom bore his honors as
grandly as he could have done on that great
occasion forty years before.
She full of grace and rich in happiness.
He with the sober years of manliness.
	A reception was tendered United States
Senator Reed Smoot, Tuesday evening, June
9, at the home of Brother and Sister Jacob
F. Gates. The affair was unique in many
respects, and rather informal, and very de-
lightful. Hon. Thomas Hull was master of
ceremonies and did the honors admirably,
relieving the host and hostess, so that their
pleasure was enhanced instead of hindered.
Clive’s band furnished excellent music, and
the speeches were short and interesting,
wit and brilliancy interspersed. The speak-
ers were Elder J. G. McQuarrie of the East-
erm Mission, President Joseph F. Smith,
President F. M. Lyman, Hon. Reed Smoot
and Mrs. Reed Smoot, who gave a glimpse
of Washington society, and a real Utah
home in Washington. There were recita-
tions by young talented women, Maud May
Babcock and Mrs. Belle Ross, Apostle H.
J. Grant sang “The flag without a stain,”
and there were other distinguished gentle-
men who spoke briefly and interestingly.
Light refreshments were served during the
evening. Among the distinguished ladies
present we recall the venerable lady Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith, Sister Rhoda
Lyman, and many younger women, wives
of Apostles, and Presidents of Stakes.
Brother and Sister Gates are to be congratu-
lated on having made a perfect success of
this reception.
	Wednesday, June 10, 1908, annual meet-
ing of the Daughters of the Revolution, Utah
State Society, met in room 509 Templeton
Building, to elect officers for the ensuing
year. After preliminany exercises and the
transaction of some business, the following
ladies were elected by unanimous vote of
the members present: Regent, Mrs. Elizabeth
R. Wright; First Vice-Regent, Mrs. Emily Y.
Clawson; Second Vice-Regent, Mrs. Lucy W.
Smith; Recording Secretary, Mrs. Clarissa
Y. Spencer; Corresponding Secretary, Mrs.
Julia F. Lund; Treasurer, Mrs. Emily H.
Willey; Registrar. Mrs. Isabel M. W. Sears;
Historian, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth;
Chaplain, Mrs. Rachel Campbell. After
the officers were elected the annual meet-

