[Column 2]
ing was adjourned for one year, and notice
given that the next regular meeting would
be held on Wednesday, September 16, as
usual after summer vacation.
	Thursday, June 11, was the formal open-
ing of Whitney Hall, a new building erected
in the 18th ward of this city, adjoining the
Ward Chapel. The occasion was some-
thing of a house-warming and was in a way
informal, as the hall is not yet to be dedi-
cated. There were opening exercises of
prayer and singing conducted by the Bishop,
T. A. Clawson, and an eloquent address
suited to the occasion by Elder Orson F.
Whitney, Bishop of the ward for many
years, giving a sort of history of the ward in
the past and explanations as to the name,
all of which was very briefly summed up
necessarily. President Joseph F. Smith
spoke feelingly and reverently of those who
had rendered service in the ward in the past,
and congratulated those who had assisted in
getting so commodious a place for social en-
tertainments. There was excellent music,
vocal and instrumental, followed by danc-
ing and supper. At some future time we
hope to give a good sketch of this building
named for the late Bishop Orson F. Whit-
ney and his illustrious grandfather Presid-
ing Bishop Newel K. Whitney.
	Friday Evening, June 12, the General
Board of the Young Ladies M. I. A. gave a
reception in Whitney Hall to the visiting
Stake officers, the First Presidency, Apos-
tles and Church officials, and the General
officers of the Relief Society and Primary.
It was a very grand affair on a broad scale,
and the music, dancing and refreshments
were all of a high order of excellence. The
spirit of unity and good fellowship was par-
ticularly apparent, and it equaled if it did
not surpass, the yearly entertainments or re-
ceptions of previous years. It is a sort of
Herculean undertaking to give these large
affairs and make them a success. Our young
ladies however have never failed to give sat-
isfaction to all invited, find it is a great
pleasure to entertain so royally those who
are laboring so effectually in the various lo-
calities, far away from headquarters when
they come once a year to receive instruction
from those who preside over all.
	Saturday, June 13, 1908, was Primary day
for the General Society and Stake officers.
Every year the day of the “outing” is look-
ed forward to with eager anticipation by
those from a distance particularly. Wanda-
mere now seems a very popular resort for
summer pic nics and excursions, it has many
attractions, and is kept free from "hood-
lums” which is very desirable. This year
the Primary chose Wandamere, for the enter-
tainment of the Association and guests; the
day was not very propitious but one cannot
always have fine weal her even in June. There
were a large number assembled and more
than an abundance of good things to eat;
the meeting of old friends at times like these
is a very great pleasure and the General
Board of the Primary is noted for the great
courtesy and liberality extended to all inter-
ested in this important work for the children
of Zion.
	This year Utah Daughters of the Pioneers
gathered at Wandamere the 15th of June for
their annual outing, and as Flag Day, June
14, came on Sunday it happened to combine
the two things. The President Mrs. Susa
Young Gates conducted the exercises, had

[Column 3]
Clives band engaged and progra[-] arranged.
There was considerable enthusiasm, some
very fine singing by talented young girls and
excellent music, and quite a number of vet-
erans were present, belonging to various
organizations. Some very good speeches
were made, the President herself being
most happy in her remarks and several of
the speakers particularly the ladies gave
entertaining reminiscences.
	The marriage of Zina Young Card and
Hugh B. Brown took place in the Salt Lake
Temple, Wednesday, June 17, 1908, the
bride is the granddaughter of President
B[-]igham Young and of Sister Zina D. H.
Young one of the most noted women of her
time in the Church, and the daughter of Pre-
sident O. S. and Zina Y. Card. After the
ceremony a wedding breakfast was given at
the home of the bride’s mother at which
were assembled the immediate family of
Sister Zina and a very few invited guests,
among the number the editor who con-
sidered it quite an honor, to be one of so hap-
py a wedding party. The most elaborate
congratulations were given and many gifts
of love for the young couple to take with
them to Canada, where they intend to make
their permanent home, and may it be a pa-
radise on earth and the Holy Spirit dwell
therein.
“Across the threshold led
And every tear kissed off as soon as shed,
His house she enters, there to be a light,
Shining within when all without is night;
A guardian angel o’er his life presiding,
Doubling his pleasures, and his cares dividing.”
	Wednesday from 3 to 6 p. m., June 17,
Mrs. C. F. Wilcox and her daughter Miss
Mona who had but just graduated from the
Utah University gave a reception in honor
of the happy event. It was a very pleasant
and enjoyable affair, although the rain pour-
ed down in torrents, the ladies came, many
in full evening dress; the decorations were
artistic and exquisite and the delicacies
served in the way of refreshments were dain-
tily delicious. As it was also the birthday
of Dr. Wilcox’s mother; she assisted in
receiving the entire afternoon; excellent
music rendered by a string band, added to
the pleasure of the guests who seemed to
enjoy every moment. It was indeed a charm-
ing affair and everything was delightful ex-
cept the weather, and that was out of doors.
	At the home of Mrs. John Groesbeck, Jr.,
Tuesday, June 23, a luncheon party was
given for her mother Margaret G. Clawson,
the guests were most of them Temple work-
ers about 25 or 30. The rooms were prettily
decorated with roses and other June flowers,
and the luncheon was par excellence, and
naturally very appetizing and seasoned with
wit and humor necessarily when Margaret
Clawson and Phebe Kimball get together;
this sort of conversation is good for diges-
tion. Half the pleasure of Sister M. G.
Clawson’s parties is the fine viands and the
other half is the enlivening conversation, it
does not depend much on her guests. She
has always been popular with the young
people, and now she is becoming very popu-
lar with the elderly sisters.
	Mrs. A. W. Carlson gave a garden party
on June 23, at her own residence, out doors
and in; some of Sister Clawson’s guests left
early to attend this Garden party, which was
made very attractive by the beautiful trees
and shrubbery, and especially by the cherry
trees, full of ripe red cherries, that added


