[Column 2]
spectors of the accused. Also in reform
schools; in the promotion of juvenile courts;
in the cleansing and beautifying of cities
and towns; in the promotion of public mor-
als. It was a woman legislator who intro-
duced a bill, which became a law, against
the wearing of huge hats in places of amuse-
ment by which the general public has been
greatly benefitted. Woman has vigor-
ously supported enactments against expec-
toration on street cars and street pavements,
and similar regulations for the public health
and convenience.
	By the enfranchisement of women, the
agitation over the much vexed question of
political equality has been settled in Utah,
and the contention and strife which it has
evoked has passed away, and woman shares
with man the power that full freedom
brings. And this puts her in her proper
place by his side, instead of under his
thumb or his foot or other unjust domin-
ion. It has not robbed her one whit of her
womanliness or hindered the performance
of home duties. She is just as good a wife,
a mother, a sister, or an aunt as she could
be without the rights and privileges which
the ballot brings to her. She can teach
human rights and the principles of govern-
ment to her children, and imbue her sons
with the spirit of that liberty she herself en-
joys. She is no longer a political serf, but
a citizen in the full sense of the term, a part
of the nation, having a voice in the making
of the laws which she is required to obey, in
accord with the eternal principle that, “all
governments derive their just powers from
the consent of the governed.” Utah stands
third on the list of educational status among
the forty-six states of the American Union,
and her position is largely due to the influ-
ence of free, progressive and enfranchised
womanhood.
	There are offices in the gift of the people
for which women are especially adapted.
There are others which can be better filled by
men. The good sense of the voter, both
male and female, is, or should be, exercised
in their selection. This has been exempli-
fied in the workings of equal suffrage, and
the universal acceptance of this righteous
eqnality cannot fail to bring to the world
greater freedom, higher justice, closer union
and advancement in every thing that will
elevate humanity, and bring them to that
condition of harmony, fraternity and peace
foreseen by the prophets and heralded by
the poets and sages of ancient and modern
times.
