[Column 2]
to save the situation, the teams were un-
hitched and wheels blocked; the teamsters
run to shelter, and the storm drove the cattle
in every direction; after it was over it was a
day’s work to find the cattle and get them
together. Meantime John had come with
the stray cattle, the teams were hitched up,
and Sister Mary Smith and her family, with
teams and wagons climbed the mountain,
passed the company, and came on, arriving
in the valley twenty hours ahead of the Cap-
tain. “And thus was her prophecy fulfilled.”
	This little narrative needs no comment it
speaks for itself. Reminiscences of pioneer
women of the Church would fill volumes. It
is not only men who paved the way to make
Utah and the surrounding localities what it
is, but women have borne their share of the
burdens and hardships. We would not like
to carry the impression that because Sister
Mary Smith was heroic and self-sustaining,
and business like in methods and achieve-
ment, that she was heroic and self-sustaining,
and business like in methods and achieve-
ment, that she was in the least degree mas-
culine, such was not the case, she was
womanly to the heart’s core, she loved her
husband with intense devotion, she suffered
almost more than martyrdom in her feelings,
but she rose to the occasion in every trial,
and her prophetic nature no doubt helped
her stand the test of adversity and to prosper
where many weaker ones signally failed. 
These are but a small part of the personal
impressions made upon me of this sainted
woman. Her name must be handed down
in history, as one of the bravest heroines of
that period of the exodus from Nauvoo, and
the subsequent pioneer journey to the Great
Salt Lake Valley. A woman of mark and
distinction, not only in rare instances where
great victories are to be wrought-out, but in 
the days of the severest persecutions and
mobbings of Ohio and Missouri. Through
all these she came forth unscathed, a con-
queror to succeed! a mother to the mother-
less as well as her own! she kept the home
pure and bright and with her marvelous skill
and frugal management, plenty for her own
and to spare for those in need of true chari-
ty. Sister Mary Smith lived a magnificent
and glorious life, there was much of shadow
more than of sunshine in it, and many times
storms, tempests, and sometimes tragedies. 
Such lives are the grandest triumphs when
all is over and even “Death is swallowed up
in victory.”
	It is not possible to write of such women
without strong emotion, and a vivid appreci-
ation of the overwhelming conflicts of human
nature, with the higher soulfulness that suf-
fered and conquered.

Our vision of the infinite, afar,
	Is quickened and we draw so near
We almost see the gates of life ajar,
	And angel voices shouting praises hear;
And we interpret in our own poor way
	Some of the doubts and mysteries we’ve seen
But in the light of an eternal day
	Then we shall know why all these things have
		been.

Mary Fielding Smith, born July 21, 1801,
at Honidon, Bedfordshire, England, died in
Salt Lake City, Utah, September 21, 1852.

	Sister Mercy Rachel Fielding Thompson,
younger sister of Sister Mary Fielding Smith,
was much better known among the people
here than her older sister, having lived in
this city fifty years and more after the death
of her sister Mary. 
	Sister Thompson was a woman of exceed-
ing great faith, one who loved to converse
upon spiritual subjects, was familiar with
the Bible and with all church works. It

[Column 3]
was her delight to talk of the Prophet
Joseph and his brother Hyrum and the won-
derful manifestations of their power and
authority, that were quite familiar to her
from association with the gifted Prophets,
Seers and Revelators. 
	Sister Thompson had been connected
with the Relief Society from its inception
and her estimate of woman and her strength
of mind and active energies was of the very
highest, and too, from believing that the
Prophet Joseph Smith had conferred upon
the sisterhood great blessings, that were to
be unfolding from time to time, and that
were in the process of development of great
intellectual and spiritual progress.
	Sister Mercy Thompson, the younger sis-
ter of Sister Mary Fielding Smith, of the
famous English Fielding Family, was in
many respects very unlike her senior sis-
ter, although she possessed some of the
same traits of character. Sister Thomp-
son lived many years in this city and
was very widely known, by her re-
markable work among the sick and afflicted,
which endeared her to many hearts, and
like some other benevolent women of her
time she was endowed as it were with the
gift of healing, she went much among the
poor and lowly of the Latter-day Saints, and
in many homes, she was like a ministering
angel; and in those early times in the val-
ley, when all were comparatively short of
provisions and means, she always seemed
to have wherewith to help others. 
	Sister Mercy Thompson was indeed a wo-
man of mark. In studying her character
one finds much that was unusual in her de-
velopment. Certainly she had like her il-
lustrious sister Mary the best education
given to young women of that time, and the
same sort of home training and discipline,
but the writer believes that the training of
a large family of children, such as Mary
Smith had to rear, and being in the midst of
such circumstances as the work necessitates,
brings out and strengthens more powers of
the soul and consciousness, than the quiet
life of a small household. At any rate its
tendency is to round out one’s character in
many directions. 
	Sister Thompson was of a distinctively
religious nature, one who would make al-
most any sacrifice to assist in building tem-
ples and other charitable and philanthropic
enterprises of a like nature. 
	She was a woman who had made the
most of her opportunities, she had married
younger in life than her sister Mary, and her
husband was a man of literary attainments,
and not having a large family to rear like
her elder sister, she had more time at her
disposal to cultivate her mind and spiritual
energies. We know moreover she was natur-
ally self-reliant, industrious and enterpris-
ing, and possessed the quality of thrift and
a sort of assertive independence. 
	Our sisters familiar with the Relief So-
ciety work can remember how zealous Sister
Thompson was in this field of labor, and
the untiring ministrations of charity that ex-
tended in a wider field than her own par-
ticular locality in the 16th ward and its
vicinity, but she was more, if I may say so,
more of a zealous devotee of temple work,
and sought by all the means in her power to
promote it by giving liberally of her means
and in various other ways. 
	Some people wait for opportunities to
come, but Sister Thompson sought for ways
and means to carry out her desires concern-
ing work for the dead, and with this end in
view in the summer of 1871, she visited


