[Column 1]
	“After this she sent back and succeeded in
getting by buying and hiring on credit, seve-
ral yoke of oxen from brethren who were not
able to emigrate that year, and when the
companies were ready to start she and her
family were better prepared for the journey.”
	The writer knows, all the difficulties en-
countered of this tedious journey across the
plains that year, when women were taken
care of, and protected by able-bodied men;
and also by observation and acquaintance
with women, who traveled depending upon
their own exertions and watchfulness of
every detail, how strenuous the circum-
stances were through which these pioneer
women had to pass, and how brave and un-
flinching scores of them were in the midst of
such scenes as they must of necessity now
and then encounter.
	But to continue the relation of Sister Mary
Smith’s victory; without enumerating the
many disasters by the way, when cattle were
lost and Indians and buffalo and other wild
creatures came down upon us “like the wolf
on the fold,” “one day driving slowly through
the sand and dust near the Sweetwater the
hot sun pouring down upon the poor ani-
mals hauling heavy loads,” one of Sister
Mary Smith’s best oxen laid down in the
yoke, rolled over on his side and stiffened
out his legs spasmodically, evidently in the
throes of death.”
	All the teams behind were stopped of
course, and people came forward to know
what was the matter. “The Captain on
ahead came back to know what was wrong. 
No one supposed the ox would recover, and
the Captain’s first words were, “He is dead
there is no use working with him; we’ll have
to fix up some way to take the widow along;
I told her she would be a burden upon the
company.”
	Meanwhile Sister Mary Smith was looking
for a bottle of consecrated oil she had in one
of the wagons, and just then came with it,
and asked her brother Joseph Fielding and
the other brethren to administer to the ox,
thinking that the Lord would raise him up.”
“They did so pouring a portion of oil on the
top of his head, between and back of the
horns, and all laid hands upon him, admin-
istering the ordinance as they would have
done to a human being that was sick. In a
moment he gathered up his legs, and arose
to his feet, and traveled right off as well as
ever. He was not even unyoked from his
mate.”
	September 22nd the company crossed over
“Big Mountain” near the valley; the western
side of it was very steep and they had to
rough-lock the hind wheels, and the forward
cattle were turned loose and only the wheel-
ers retained on the wagons; being anxious
to shorten the journey now they were so
near, they drove on until late into the night,
and camped near the foot of “Little Moun-
tain.” During the night several of Sister
Mary Smith’s cows that had been turned
loose were lost in the brush. The next morn-
ing John Smith went back to hunt for them. 
The Captain gave orders for starting earlier
than usual, although he knew Sister Mary
Smith would be obliged to wait till John
came with the lost cattle. The company
went on and she was left alone, with her
family. John was long in returning and she
could see the company ahead toiling far up
the mountain. At this time it seemed as
though her prediction would ingloriously
fail. But as the company neared the sum-
mit of the mountain a cloud burst, and the
rain poured down in torrents, causing utter
confusion. The cattle refused to pull, and

