[Column 1]
greatly to the beauty of the landscape. Mrs.
Carlson is a charming hostess and a prime
favorite with her friends, who are very num-
erous. We are sorry we have not space to
elaborate more fully on these two parties 
that occurred on the same day, but we can
remember them, and the ladies we met at
both places, and the good fellowship that
brings those who meet often closer to-
gether and year after year the ties grow
stronger.
	Thursday, July 9, was the anniversary of
the birthday of Mrs. Sophia Sharp and her
daughter Mrs. James E. Jennings gave a 
party in her honor to a large number of her
mother’s relatives and friends, in her hand-
some and commodious home. As it was
the midsummer many of the ladies were in
white, and all in light beautiful raiment
making an artistic picture in the midst of
the elegant furnishings of the rooms and the
exquisite floral decorations. The refresh-
ments were dainty and delicious and beauti-
fully served by little girls in white with rib-
bons, etc.,  the pretty grand daughters of
Mrs. Sophia Sharp and Mrs. Priscilla Jen-
nings. One may be sure there was no lack
of interesting conversation where so many
intelligent ladies were gathered and the par-
ty was therefore a brilliant success in every
respect. The Exponent extends congratula-
tions to the dear little lady, and wishes for
her many more returns of the day with health
and strength to enjoy life, and may her lines
be cast in pleasant places henceforth.
	Saturday, at 12 m., July 11, a luncheon
was given at the Utah University by the
Dean of Domestic Science Miss Lucy Van
Cott, and some special invitations were giv-
in a way informally, the General Officers and
Board of the Relief Society and of the Young
Ladies Associations were invited and the
affair was made very delightful and inter-
esting. New methods were explained, and
the general condition and status of this par-
ticular department were practically explain-
ed. Miss Van Cott seems to have made
good use of her advanced training in Eastern
Colleges, and is very competent to undertake
the superintending of a wider system of the
work, than is possible at present even in the
new University building that her students
occupy at present. She gave a fine talk on
the subject which is in reality a home topic,
Prof. Wm. Stewart spoke on the kindergarten
and kindred subjects a department which is
his pet theme, and Prof. Kingsbury occupied
a few minutes on the general situation of
the University and in praise of the pioneers,
and of their descendants taking a greater in-
terest in the institution founded by them so
many years ago in the new west. The writer
was requested to speak and incidentally al-
luded to the topic which Prof. Kingsbury
had so eloquently and ably referred to, and
also expressed the pride felt by all the early
settlers in the growth and excellence of this
University established in the Great west at
such an early period. Mrs. Martha H. Tin-
gey spoke by special request, expressing the
feeling entertained by the young women in
that organization, to help forward the good
work undertaken by Miss Van Cott which 
was certainly a laudable undertaking and
should be encouraged and patronized by the
community. The lady visitors were shown
through the buildings and explanations were
made to the party in regard to the buildings
and grounds.
	Tuesday, July 21, the Relief Society of the
four Stakes of Zion had their annual outing

