A BLESSING PENNED LONG AGO.
(The writer long since dead.)
	First of all that I would crave as the rich-
est of heaven’s blessings would be wisdom
from my Heavenly Father bestowed daily,
so that whatever I might do or say, I could


not look back at the close of the day wi[-]h
regret, nor neglect the performance of any
act that would bring a blessing. I desire
the Spirit of God to know and understand
myself, that I might be able to overcome
whatever of tradition or nature that would
not tend to my exaltation in the eternal
worlds. I desire a fruitful, active mind,
that I may be able to comprehend the de-
signs of God, when revealed through His
servants without doubting. I desire the
spirit of discernment, which is one of the
promised blessings of the Holy Ghost.
	I particularly desire wisdom to bring up
all the children that are, or may be com-
mitted to my charge, in such a manner that
they will be useful ornaments in the King-
dom of God, and in a coming day arise up
and call me blessed.
	I desire prudence that I may not through
ambition abuse my body and cause it to be-
come prematurely old and care-worn, but
that I may wear a cheerful countenance, live
to perform all the work I covenanted to per-
form in the spirit-world and be a blessing to
all who may in anywise need aught at my
ha[-]ds.
	I desire with all my heart to honor and
respect my husband as my head, to ever live
in his confidence and by acting in unison
with him retain the place which God has
given me by his side, and I ask, my Heav-
enly Father, that through humility, I may
be enabled to overcome the curse which was
pronounced upon the daughters of Eve. I
desire to see my kindred and friends em-
brace the principles of Eternal Truth, that I
may rejoice with them in the blessings
which God has in store for all who are will-
ing to be obedient to His requirements.
Finally, I desire that whatever may be my
lot through life I may ever be enabled to ac-
knowledge the hand of God in all things.
	These desires of my heart were called
forth by Joseph sending me word*
***that he had not
time to write as he would like, but I could
write out the best blessing I could think of
and he would sign the same on his return.


