[Column 2]
can one sum up his nobility of soul, his ten-
derness in the home circle, and to all with
whom he had to deal, especially women,
young or old.

	“Tho’ modest on his unembarras’d brow
	Nature had written—Gentleman.”

	Bishop Preston never hesitated to under-
take hard work; pioneering, colonizing in
the West as he has done requires men of
strong character and determination; he was
a good leader among men, and no doubt one
of the finest business managers in this wes-
tern land, this new country as to speak. He
was selected at different times to fill some
of the most important and trustworthy posi-
tions, and he never failed in his allegiance
to the people, or the trusts committed to his
care.
	William Bowker Preston was born Nov. 24,
1830, in Virginia, on the family plantation,
and became familiar with all the duties and 
responsibilities of a Southern planter.
	In 1852 he went on a trip to California in
the time of the gold fever and studied the
mining situation in Sacramento, but after
some experience in digging for gold, started
a plantation in the Yolo valley, where he
met the family of Brother John Thatcher
and became a convert to the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints of which the
Thatcher family were members. Subse-
quently and not long afterwards he came to
Utah, at the time of Johnston’s army, when
President Brigham Young issued a call to
all of the members of the Church to assemble
in the Rocky Mountains. Wm. B. Preston with
the Thatcher family arrived here by way of
San Bernardino Jan. 1, 1858, and soon after,
he married Miss Harriet Ann Thatcher, Feb.
24, 1858. The marriage proved a happy one
judging from their beautiful home life, and
unbounded hospitality in entertaining of
which hundreds and thousands of Latter-day
Saints have partaken.
	After that time Brother Preston became
identified with large public interests, and
was in constant service whether at home or
abroad filling missions; there were always
responsible positions to be filled and he was
qualified to undertake whatever labor in the
Church he was called to perform, with honor
and credit to the Church and all concerned.
	Finally as a climax of his long career in
positions of trust and confidence, he was
chosen to succeed Bishop Edward Hunter
as Presiding Bishop of the Church in 1884, 
this gave him opportunities to be known to
all the people of the Latter-day Saints. The
years that followed this appointment were
weighted with heavy responsibilities requir-
ing great wisdom, prudence and knowledge
of business principles, to cope with the con-
ditions and circumstances in which the
Church affairs were placed in consequence
of adverse laws and various grievances that
had to be met and dealt with.
	Through all those trying years of his
stewardship Bishop Preston bore his share of
the responsibility with diplomatic energy
and heroic fortitude. He was unwavering
in his devotion to duty, and allegiance to
the Church. He maintained the dignity of 
his calling as Presiding Bishop so as to win
the admiration of all his associates in office,
fulfilling every duty to the entire satisfaction
of all the people concerned in Church inter-
ests at large; so far as it is possible for man
to do, certainly with unusual and intelligent
ability in that line of work which requires
diligence, patience and the quality of leader-
ship; an influence of power in management
that promotes peace and harmony among

[Column 3]
men of many countries with the attendant
customs and traditions.
	Bishop Preston has left a noble record on
the tablets of time.
	His memory will be engraven upon the
hearts of his co-workers and the Saints
generally. His wife and family to whom
he was so deeply attached must feel keenly
the loss of his dignified presence in the home
circle, and his intense sympathy with all the
griefs and sorrows that come into the lives
of those near and dear, but they doubtless
realize he has gone to his rest among the
blest, where some of the nearest and dearest
of his own kindred and children had gone
before him. “Blessed are the dead that die
in the Lord, yea from henceforth they rest
from their labors and their works do follow
them.”
	Bishop Preston departed this life on Sun-
day afternoon August 2, 1908, at 3 p.m. He
was sojourning for a change during the hot
weather with a part of his family at a sum-
mer resort in Cottonwood, he had not been
very well for some time but not seriously ill
until the crisis came, and he passed peace-
fully away like “one lying down to pleasant
dreams.” Such deaths are glorious, and yet
those near and dear must mourn, it is human
nature to feel keenly the loss of the society
and companionship of those we love. Brother
and Sister Preston had been married over
half a century, fifty years last February, and
to the wife bereft of the sweet companion-
ship of a beloved husband, the father of her
children awakens the sympathy of her friends
and the community, and yet we know “He
giveth his beloveth sleep.

He sees when their footsteps falter, when their
	hearts grow weak and faint;
He marks when their strength is failing, and lis-
	tens to each complaint;
He bids them rest for a season, for the pathway
	has grown too steep;
And folded in fair, green pastures, He giveth his
	loved ones sleep,
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
Weep not that their toils are over, weep not that
	their race is run;
God grant we may rest as calmly, when our work
	like theirs is done!
Till then we would yield with gladness our treas-
	ures to Him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth his
	loved ones sleep.”

	Bishop Preston’s body was brought to this
city and after he was arrayed in his beauti-
ful white robes and placed in the casket he
was taken to the Assembly Hall which had
been tastefully draped in white; many floral
offerings of lovely blossoms adorned the cas-
ket, gifts of loving friends and associates.
	Impressive funeral services were held at
one p. m. President Joseph F. Smith was
present, the Tabernacle choir rendering the
sweetest music. Eloquent tributes to his
life and character were paid by the First
Presidency and Apostles, and after the con-
clusion of the services here the body was
taken to Logan for burial in the family plat
there, where members of his family had prev-
iously been buried.
	Funeral services were also held in the
Tabernacle at Logan, the city where so many
years of his active life had been passed in the
Master’s service.


