RELIEF SOCIETY REUNION.
	Minutes of the Tooele Stake Relief So-
ciety Reunion held in Grantsville on June
25, 1908, at 2 p, m., President Alice R.
Woolley presiding. All the Stake officers
were present, Alice R. Woolley, Rose
Hammond, Maggie W. Anderson, Mary E.
Halladay, Lillian Gillespie, Lillian H. An-
derson. After the opening exercises, Presi-
dent Woolley welcomed the sisters, told us
every ward in the stake was represented, for
which she was very thankful. Felt that
Relief Society work was a great blessing to
the sisters, uniting them in love and unity.
Relief Society work is likened to the work
of our Savior. Asked the Spirit of the Lord
to be with us. She received a telephone


message from President Gowans saying that
on account of the sickness of his wife he
was unable to be with us; sent regrets for
other members of the Stake Presidency.
	Sister Louie Hale made a few remarks;
was so glad to meet with the sisters. Felt
thankful that the Relief Society was organ-
ized to make us better women and mothers.
Said Sister Mary A. Hunter, our former
Stake President sent her love and wished
she could have met with us today.
	Sister Agnes Judd played an organ solo.
	Sister Rose Hammond spoke of the happy
hours she had spent in Relief Society meet-
ings. Testified to the good spirit enjoyed
by the sisters, and hoped we would always
realize from whom our blessings came.
	Sister Lillian H. Anderson read a humor-
our piece entitled “How we Hunted a
Mouse.”
	Sister Shields, of Lake View Ward, sang
a solo.
	Sister Emily Anderson was thankful to
meet with the sisters, hoped we would have
a good time together. A good Relief Soci-
ety member is a good member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We 
renew our friendships in these reunions.
	Sister Lillian Gillespie read a paper on
the beauties of motherhood.
	Sister Maggie Anderson wished all to
understand  that when we hold a stake re-
union every one is invited to attend, spoke
of the blessings of Relief Society work, we
need spiritual food when we are raising our
families.
	Sister Lizzie Barrus sang a solo, “Count
Your Many Blessings.”
	Sister Steele read a paper entitled “An
Old Fashioned Standard of Life.”
	A paper prepared by Sister Jean Bennion
of Vernon was read by Sister Mary E. Hal-
laday, as the writer was unable to be pres-
ent.
	The reunion program closed by singing
“O, ye mountains high.” Benediction by
Sister Mary E. Halladay.
	The company then assembled on the lawn
beside the meeting house where refresh-
ments were served to all, which ended a
very enjoyable sociable time.
