[Column 1]
Canada, the temporary home of the Field-
ings after leaving England, and while there
sojo[-]rning among her old friends and her
husband's relatives, collected much ma-
terial to add to the family record of the
Thompsons.
	She returned in March, 1872, and in Oc-
tober of the same year she started again on
a trip to England for similar purposes; ac-
companying President George A. Smith and
the Palestine party as far as England. Ar-
riving there she visited the home and scenes
of her girlhood, and numerous relatives and
friends, though she made it her principal
business to gather reliable genealogy for her
Temple records. During this time she bore
her testimony of the restoration of the Gos-
pel in this dispensation, wherever and when-
ever opportunity presented itself, and there
can be no doubt that such seed scattered
abroad will some day spring up and bear
fruit. Sister Thompson returned in June,
1873.
	Travels and journeyings of this kind give
a broader and more comprehensive view of
life, and are educational in the best sense
of the word; equipping one with more ma-
terial for doing good and rendering aid, and
service to others in the great work of this
age, when so much is to be accomplished by
the Saints both for the living and the dead.
	Sister Thompson was not a woman to
hide her light under a bushel, but to let it
shine abroad to the enlightening of her co-
laborers in the vineyard of the Lord, and so
we found her after these missions (if such
we may call them) doing more for her fel-
low-workers than ever before.
	The one virtue or characteristic that
seemed most beautiful of all in her later
life was the patience and resignation, which
was manifest in the fortitude with which she
bore pain and suffering, when she who had
been so active and apparently strong, be-
came more or less helpless, and dependent
upon others to assist her in moving about
(even in the room) when she could move at
 all. In this she showed the true spirit of
heroism. Not only did she bear her afflic-
tion bravely, but when her friends called
upon her, the atmosphere of her presence,
seemed to be of one being perfected through
pain and affliction.
	The sisters who called on her to express
sympathy came away comforted in the as-
surance that suffering had sanctified the
soul, so full was she of blessings for all and
praise to God for all His mercies and good-
ness; and one recalls in this connection the
words of the poet who wrote:
" 'Tis alone of his appointing
That our feet on thorns have trod.
Suffering, pain, renunciation
Only brings us nearer God."
	On June 15, 1898, a number of sisters went
to the home of Sister Thompson with hearts
filled wit[-] love and blessing for this aged
sister, to cheer and gladden her, and con-
gratulations for the birthday anniversary,
bringing appropriative gifts and choice flow-
ers in abundance.
	The day was spent in charming converse,
Sister Thompson relating many incidents of
the days of Nauvoo and those earlier scenes
of sacrifice and suffering for conscience sake.
Those dear sisters who were there on that
day can never forget the heavenly influence
that pervaded the room and seemed to fill
the hearts of all present. Three months
from that day Sister Thompson passed away,
and many of those present on that memor-

