lineament of her face, and she had a com-
manding figure; a sort of martial bearing,
the carriage of a woman who could lead an
army to battle.
	Of all the sisters whose severe trials and
hardships have been almost beyond human
endurance, it seems to me Sister Mary
Smith’s have been greatest. And yet her
faith never wavered, her courage never fal-
tered. The Spartan mothers so lauded in
history could not have been more heroic
than this mother in Israel, whose name
might with all propriety be emblazoned
in letters of gold on the Smith scroll of
fame.
	Under all circumstances in which she was
placed however trying, she was equal to the
occasion and triumphed; she scarcely needed
counsel for she was ever instructed from the
One above, and yet she was obedient to
proper authority.
	Not only was she of a religious nature by
inheritance; but also by early home training,
and discipline. It is well known that in
that day young girls did not have the educa-
tional advantages that are now accorded
them, but the Fieldings were people of the
educational class, and the best opportunities
of advancement for girls were given them;
and great pains was taken with young girls
at that period to acquire ease and grace of
manner, and proper deportment and polite-
ness, at all times. The cultivation of moral
development and preparation for home life
was a part of every young girl’s training, that
she might be a model wife, and even if she
remained a spinster know how to manage a
household.
	In this respect most of the women of that
day and age excelled those of a later time,
when more attention was given to the school
and to music, especially the piano, and less
to the preparation for the home and family.
	The Gospel as we all know does inspire
its devout followers, to bear all life’s bur-
dens with greater humility, and power of en-
durance, than any moral teaching however
excellent; yet in the case of Mary Fielding
she had this foundation to build upon, and
who shall say that she was not better pre-
pared for the many vicissitudes of her late
years for having the cultivation of those
homely virtues in her early career, so thor-
oughly grounded as to be a part of her very
self. Be that as it may, all of us who have
lived many long years, and have made good
use af our opportunities of studying human
nature must acknowledge, that the founda-
tion of a really well-balanced dominant and
masterful character is laid in early life.
	Looking back upon the time when I first
heard of and met Sister Mary Smith, I re-
call the remarks of sisters, who knew her
much more intimately; women near her own
age, while I was very young, and the impres-
sions I received from them were those that
obtained with me when I met her again, and
more often here in the valley, in the home
of Sister Vilate Kimball.

[Column 3]
	She was a woman who believed in the
charity that teaches people, able to work at
all, to help themselves, and she would and
did furnish employment and food, raiment
and shelter for many homeless and friend-
less ones, when other women perchance sit-
uated as she was would have asked for, and
would have needed assistance. This alone
gives a key to her selfhelpfulness and the
superior capability she possessed of hand-
ling means, and directing the energies and
activities of others; and when a woman can
handle people and means so wisely, and dis-
cretly without capital, except such as ac-
cumulates through her own perseverance and
enterprise, is it not positive proof of genuine
business ability and of an excellent knowl-
edge of controlling forces in life with un-
common skill and diplomacy?
	Sister Smith was not a woman who made
a noise about what she had done, or was
doing, but was very quiet and self-possessed,
and in fact reticent, she did not ask favors,
but was more ready to bestow them, than to
receive.
	She was very exemplary in her tithing and
donations, and in fact in all Church obliga-
tions. Her example is this respect is a very
striking illustration of woman’s independ-
ence and capability to stand alone, and
maintain her position, as the head of a
household, when circumstances required it;
and in this respect she succeeded admirably
with the help of the Lord on whom she re-
lied at all times and in all places.
	The one circumstance of her journey
across the plains, which she undertook in
face of almost superhuman obstacles is illus-
trative of the masterful character of this
wonderful woman, and deserves to be en-
graved conspicuously where our dainty
young women of today could read it when
they complain of daily tasks.
	In 1848, Sister Mary Fielding Smith de-
termined to come with the Saints who were
leaving Winter Quarters on the Missouri
river for the valley of the Great Salt Lake;
after she had strained every nerve as it were
to procure teams and means to go forward
with the company, and with such an experi-
ence, in dealing with cattle, steers, cows and
calves as few women know anything of, her
principal help being very young boys, Jos-
eph F. now President of the Church was
then not quite ten years old, his elder broth-
er John now Patriarch of the Church not
sixteen, Sister Mary Smith finally reached
the Elk Horn river, where the companies
were being organized for the plains, and re-
ported to Heber C. Kimball as having start-
ed for the valley. He assigned her to a Cap-
tain of Fifty who questioned her as to her
outfit, and learning just what number of
teams, cattle and so on, she had, the Cap-
tain said, addressing her, “It is folly for you
to start in this manner; you never can make
the journey, and if you try it you will be a
burden upon the company the whole way.
My advice to you is, to go back to Winter
Quarters and wait until you can get help.”
	Sister Mary Smith replied, with apparent
complacency “Father—I will beat you to
the valley, and will ask no help from you
either.”


