[Column 2]
Let us as mothers in Israel build a firm
character. We believe in eternal progres-
sion. Love one another. There are num-
berless kind acts performed daily by sisters
of the Relief Society of which no account is
kept, she bore testimony to the divinity of
the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Solo, “Sing Me to Sleep,” sung by Sister
Ethel Call.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenbery made
references to some of the false things which
are spoken in the world against the Latter-
day Saint. Said our influence should be
of the best, for we can do more good by ex-
ample than precept. Related a testimony
received by a brother in the east, from meet-
ing with the “Mormon” Elders, who im-
planted in his heart by their acts as well as
teachings a love for the Gospel, and it was
impossible for him to quench the testimony
in his heart, although he had endeavored to
for six years. “We can preach a sermon
every day of our lives in our actions.”
	Conference convened at 2 p. m. with
President Ann T. Walker presiding. Stake
Counselors Julia A. Dabell and Lussania R.
Lawson bore testimony, and had found
great pleasure and satisfaction in comforting
and caring for the sick.
	Secretary Fanny Z. Perry reported the
Rudy Ward not doing anything at present.
President Ann T. Walker reported the stake,
said, “We have over 3,000 bushels of wheat
and $110 cash on hand. The stake presi-
dency have visited every ward in the stake
and found them doing a good work with the
exception of one. The following stake Re-
lief Society missionaries bore testimony to
the grandeur of Relief work: Sally A. Cor-
don, Annie C. Selck, Sarah Scott, and Treas-
urer Mary Ellen Call.
	Sister Elizabeth Wilcox encouraged the
sisters to support the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
Said it had been suggested by the General
Board that some of the papers written on
Motherhood be sent to the editor of the EX-
PONENT for publication.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry spoke of
the beauties of nature, said we are fitted for
the burdens we have to bear, our trials make
us love more and have charity one for an-
other, spoke of the joy and satisfaction
which is brought to one’s soul for waiting
on the sick. “Give a kind word to mothers
for they do need and deserve encouragement.
Make confidents of your children, gain their
love and respect. It is very necessary to
keep good company or you will be contami-
nated by association with evil, bind your
children to you with love.”
	A paper on Motherhood was read by Stake
Relief Society Missionary, Hannah Morgan.
	Mary Anglesey, president of Labell Ward,
reported.
	President William W. Selck, Jr., Josiah
Call and Don C. Walker all endorsed the
remarks of the sisters and exhorted all to
take heed to the counsel given and be ener-
getic workers in the Kingdom of God.
	President Ann T. Walker thanked the
visiting sisters for their visit and comforting
advice and counsel; also appreciated and
expressed thanks to the members of the

[Column 3]
Rigby Ward for their kindness and hospi-
tality shown the sisters.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
after singing and prayer.
	MARY J. M. ROBINSON, Stake Sec.


