[Column 1]
	President J. R. Shepherd thought it a very
wise thing of our president to choose her
secretary and treasurer from St. Charles, so
as to be near at hand when business is pres-
sing.
	A beautiful recitation was given by Sister
Nina Michaelson accompanied by her sister,
she also read a piece that had been compos-
ed for the Relief Society.
	One of the visiting sisters spoke of how
her memories were awakened by the beauti-
ful surroundings, and our lovely climate,
had heard so much from her mother, Sister
Horne, exhorted all to be faithful and take
care and train the children right and lend a
helping hand.
	Closed by singing and benediction.
	Afternoon session at 2 p. m. President
N. E. Pugmire presiding. Opened by choir
singing, “Jerusalem The Golden.” Sacra-
ment was then administered.
	Sister Mary Bagley then spoke for a short
time in a kind motherly way.
	Recitation by Gertrude Rich, “A Child.”
	Then President Laker addressed us.
	Sister James, one of the General Board,
spoke of the good the Relief Society had ac-
complished, we should extend the hand of
friendship, there is no greater blessing on
earth than Motherhood, told how scientists
look at the “Word of Wisdom,” and they
also think it very good to fast, exhorted us
all to faithfulness and doing good.
	A solo by Clara Williamson.
	Sister E. S. Wilcox spoke of how she en-
joyed the talent that had been exhibited and
also in behalf of the EXPONENT and spoke
very interestingly of how we can help each
other in doing everything that is noble and
good.
	President J. R. Shepherd had been very
much interested, spoke of the great help the
Relief Society is to the bishop, said “it is
much more blessed to give than to receive;”
that in the performance of our duties comes
the greatest blessing, to woman has especi-
ally been given love and devotion to her
children. What a wonderful religion we
have, it includes everything, grand and
noble, we have the greatest fraternal organ-
ization. May the Lord bless the sisters and
bless us all.
	President N. E. Pugmire thanked all who
had helped in any way to make the meet-
ings interesting.
	Closed with singing “Lift up your heads.”
Benediction, Elnora Austin.
				LOUISE TUELLER,
							Cor. Sec.
			RIGBY STAKE.
	The first quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Rigby Stake convened at Rigby,
Idaho, June 19, 1908, commencing at 10 a.
m., President Ann T. Walker presiding. Af-
ter the opening exercises roll of stake and
ward officers was called, showing a full at-
tendance of stake officers and seven wards
out of eight. Counselor Ida Smoot Dusen-
berry and Elizabeth S. Wilcox of the Gen-
eral Board of the Relief Society were in at-
tendance. The following wards were re-
ported as being in a fairly good condition
by their presidents: Annis, Alice R. Luf-
kin; Grant, by Sarah A. C. Miller; Lewis-
ville, by Elizabeth Gilchrist; Menan, by Mary
Stephens; Rigby, by Harriet Chandler.
Duet sung by Brother and Sister Silcocks of
Grant ward.
	Sister Elizabeth Wilcox addressed the
congregation on envy, and the temptations
which surround our children. Parents
should guard their children very closely.

