[Column 2]
science. We succeeded at last, and my sis-
ter and I were baptized in June, 1855. We
soon got the spirit of emigration to Zion.
We sought the Lord in humble prayer to
open the way for us with our scanty means,
and the next day the hand cart organization
was established which suited us. We were
young and had no family. We were able
to work whenever needed, and were full of
faith and hope. A little less than two
years after we were baptized we left all that
was near and dear to us in an earthly way
in Denmark, sailing from Copenhagen, April
18, 1857. We arrived in Salt Lake City,
September 13, five months later; but from
July till September we had been working
our way with handcarts for 1300 hundred
miles over sandy hills and big mountains
and rivers; but all was well, we were going
to Zion and we reached the place all right.
Praise be to the name of the Lord.
	I was taken from the camp in a buggy to
McKenny’s in the 10th ward where I worked
all winter weaving. Mrs. McKenny was
good to me and so was everybody else. I
was married February, 1858 to S. P. Eggert-
sen one of my own kinsmen, just before he
was called to go to Echo Canyon to help
watch our enemies. My sister and I were
then moved to Provo where our husbands
found us later. Provo 2nd ward was made
our home and there I have lived for over
fifty years together with my husband and
children. We have helped to build up
Provo both temporally and spiritually and
hope to continue.
	I have been a member of the Relief Soci-
ety from its first organization in Provo, in
1868, and have tried in my weakness to work
in my calling according to counsel, together
with my good band of energetic, united sis-
ters who aimed to make this society harmon-
ize with the Prophet Joseph’s instructions
to the sisters when first organized. I feel
like we succeeded pretty well. I have been
a widow nearly eight years but have child-
ren taking their father’s place taking care of
mother, and working for the upbuilding of
Zion. I feel I am greatly blessed in my old
age, I have friends wherever I go, I am
treated with kindness and respect for which
I am thankful to my heavenly Father. I
have partly lost my hearing, which is try-
ing and humiliating to me.
	I wish every success to the Woman’s Ex-
ponent, hoping it may have a place in every
home belonging to the Latter-day Saints, to
encourage and strengthen them in hope,
faith and charity.
			Yours very truly,
