A WOMAN'S VIEW OF THE SUBJECT.

Man the author of our Bible and our Religion,
	the Maker of our Laws and the Supreme
	Arbiter of our Destiny—Considering the
	mess he has made of it, would not a New
	Departure be in Order?

	Everything depends upon the point of view.
Few women will be found who have given
thought to the subject that would not as a
choice of evils, prefer Mormonism. "By their
fruits ye shall know them.” Statistics show
that crime, misery and debauchery among the
Latter-day Saints are reduced to a minimum,
and may well put us to the blush. Where in any
Christian State of our Union is a parallel to
be found.  But, oh, horror! Does a woman en-
dorse polygamy? Not without qualification.
Since men will have plurality of wives, why
not legalize the relation, both in religion and
in law? Have the courage of your convictions;
give all your wives the shelter of your name,
the refuge of your roof. Woman’s interest is

[Column 2, Mormonism, cont.]
best observed by that system, which at least
gives her legal status.
	We are accustomed to refer with pride to
our Christian homes, as the outcome of our
civilization—yet they are only one step re-
moved from the brothel, the saloon, the
gambling-house. Does it never occur to the
male-mind that all these hideous ulcers which
are eating out the heart of society, are directly
tracable to the one great crime against woman
—the edict of both the church and state—that
she should be subject to man?  Might makes
right,the old,old maxim, handed down through
centuries of rapine, and bloodshed! How far
has an enlightened Republic founded on the
principle of personal liberty, progressed in the
century of its existence? As far as woman is
concerned a mere weak reproduction of old-
world system! It is always the woman “that
thou gavest me;” made for man’s use; a play-
thing, a bauble, a convenience (and under all
conditions a necessity), put to any use, to serve
the lord and master’s sovereign will; in theory
a divinity, in practice a slave to his passions
and his lust!
	Just here every “lady” in the land takes
issue with me, but ignore, as it we may, the
fact remains, the poor outcast is indeed our
sister, and every blow at her strikes you and
me as well. The poison has penetrated through
every grade of society, and man, who made an
“outcast” of the one is not apt to shrine the
other as a “divinity.” To his depraved soul
all women are alike.  It is in this degradation
of humanity that every social evil has its birth,
its growth and its assured longevity!  All
religions have been powerless to arrest the ever
increasing momentum of the social evil. The
Christian minister draws the line at the “out-
cast’s” door—who enters here leaves hope be-
hind—for her no help or solace here nor in the
world to come! Yet there was one, whose teach-
ings we profess to follow, that said, “Neither
do I condemn thee, go, and sin no more.”
	Why should the woman be condemned,
while the man goes unscathed? Surely all re-
ligions teach that God is no respecter of per-
sons—then, why should man make laws to
controvert God’s law? Being so much more
able, physically, to take care of himself than
woman, why should all  safeguards of society
be.for him alone? He claims that the woman
must be taken care of, and such is the care he
takes of her. Just now the civilized world
held its breath in horror at the ghastly revela-
tions made in London, one of the great cen-
ters of christianity and civilization. Just one
glance of the awful abyss was accorded—
enough, one should think, to make every man
bow his face to the dust, and then the gay
whirl of society went on as before. The col-
lective wisdom of the masculine mind can find
no remedy—the only crime committed seems
to be in the exposure. Is not the earth His
and the fulness thereof? It was urged against
the man, who now holds the highest position in
the gift of the people, and, as we proudly claim,
on the habitable globe, that he had failed to
“seal his wives unto him,” and with one voice
the response came from every masculine throat,
“We all do it; why make a scapegoat of
one?” 
	From the intimate relations of the sexes
man can never rise higher than the plane to
which he assigns woman; and this fact easily
explains all the complications into which our
civilization has drifted. We started out from 

[Column 3, Mormonism, cont.]
also premises and have naturally reached
false conclusions. It is the old feudal system,
transplanted to our shores, and its blight has
fallen on our religion, our politics and our
whole social structure.
	With woman, as co-laborer, how beautiful
the world might be. The one not inferior and
degraded, the other with no proud sense of
ownership and authority. Both together,
equal in every natural right—as Omnipotence
intended them to be—earth would be better in
the new condition, and marriage religion,
truth, justice and morality something more
than an empty sound.— Chattanooga Daily
Commercial.						T.


