THE SEASON FOR MEDITATION.

	“It is the melancholy season” of the year,
the time when all nature puts off her beauti-
ful garments with which she has been so pro-
fusely and artistically adorned, and as it were,
bewails her fate, moans for the lovely robes
with which she has bedecked herself and that
she must now lay aside for a season baring
her bosom to the piercing winds that blow so
fiercely and the cruel storms that beat so
heavily, stripping off even the few faded and
tattered shreds, that still remained to cover
her naked limbs.
	What a wonderful creature is nature, and
how emblematic in all her movements and in
all her ways of life, even in sympathy, we
might almost say sentiment and positively say
feeling.  How grand and with what majesty
does she array herself after wearing the royal
crown of summer gracefully passing to the still
more: royal purple and crimson of Autumn,
and with what dignity doth she clothe herself
as though for a queenly presentation to all her
subjects, that they may behold her grandeur
on hill and mountain height and in the mag-
nificent forests in splendor almost dazzling.
	In the Spring one's thoughts come lightly
gushing up from the fountain of the heart like
an overflow, dancing to the rhythm of the
babbling brooks, and merry songs of birds,and
twitter and hum of insects, but in the late
Autumn days, one feels the shadows of
silence creeping on and around, and a sense
of dying beauty with which the deepest feeling
of the heart holds sweet companionship.  Ere
the winter with its yule-logs and Christmas
festivities has really come, there is oft a sense
of dreary calm, as though nature were enjoy-
ing a sort of silent repose, and though the
winds are occasionally restless, and sudden
storms sweep over the landscape, ruffling the
composure of nature and of the human heart
and mind, yet this mood invites to meditation,
thought, reflection, sentiment, if you will, and
even in a peaceful way one falls to musing and
recalling the delights of other days.  The
scenes are shadowy and fill us with something
beyond the power of speech, we commune with
ourselves and find it most effective.  Silence
and repose are sometimes, the most grateful
sensations, for in the bustle of the great living,
breathing, pulsing world, we lose our best
thoughts; they fly away from us and are lost
in the realms of space beyond recall.  At
times when quiet reigns in nature’s realms
we hunt for these lost treasures, and though
we may not indeed find them, we have a touch
of memory from them that brings us calm.
No, we cannot live over again what has gone,
but in memory we reproduce pictures of the
bright, the beautiful, the gay, the sombre and
clouded, all touching tenderly the heart,
through the memories which have lain folded
away from sight, and almost entirely forgotton,
until some trifle in nature, or some particular
mood recalls it, all at once, we know not ex-
actly why.
	The dead past, or the face of a dead friend,
or the gentle touch that thrilled our souls in
bye gone days,may come with a quiver of pain,
or a soft whisper of peace, and, in a moment,
as it were, bursting upon our view will appear
a whole horde of recollections that seemed to
have been buried forever.  How beautifully are
all such feelings toned, and the proud spirit of
mortal subdued by the peculiar con-
ditions of the fading of the green leaves,
“the death of the flowers,” and the sighing
and moaning of the winds of November.
	The remembrance,too, of “fruitless longing,”
aspirations of the soul that have failed of ful-
fillment, endeavors to climb to heights un-
attainable because of the many obstacles in
our pathway, and the rough rocks and sharp
thorns that left us torn and bleeding, and yet
in other places loving hands have tended us,
folded us in the bosom of peace and guided
our weary feet “through the green pastures and
by the still waters.”
	Goodly gifts come too, with the Autumn, a
rich heritage of corn and grain, the sheaves
sometimes exceeding heavy, and luscious fruits
and nuts of brown, these	remind us of the
meritorious labors of those who have garnered
sheaves of good works, and laid up treasures
of wisdom and knowlege against the day of
need, the time when the Lord, the judge of all
the earth, shall require from each an account,
of their labors and the use they have made
of that which was entrusted to their care and
stewardship.

		“So much of change my life hath known,
	I love those dear familiar ways
		In which I walk and muse alone
	In all the calm of Autumn days."

	To ramble undisturbed at this season of the
year and hold sweet discourse with Dame
Nature, not in the passive eloquence of words
but in that communion of exquisite silence
that calls out the truest sympathy, and the
best and purest thoughts and feelings of
which humanity is capable.  Such rare moods
refresh the weary soul and make us feel that
God is ever near to own and bless his chil-
dren.
