SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	NOVEMBER 15, 1885.


[Column 1]
	CHOOSE THE BETTER PART.
			      ------
   The present time is, to the Latter-day Saint,
fraught with the most intense interest, as well as
bit with mighty events, and it causes one to medi-
tate solemnly, and weigh and measure one's own
capacity and strength to endure the trying ordeals
through which the Saints are, and may be called
upon to pass, in order to prove their integrity and
steadfastness to the truth.  Humility, patience
and sacrifice are necessary to the Saint of God,
and one needs to be clothed upon with all the
Christian graces to meet and combat with, and
overcome all the influences, temptations and be-
setments, as well as all the opposition, that
arouses in the soul the fire of indignation at re-
peated insults from those who delight in making
war upon the Saints of God, and destroying the
virute and purity of those who have been made
partakers of the truth, and received that knowl-
edge which carries conviction to the human heart.
As there is joy in heaven over one sinner that re-
penteth, so also is there exultation in the dominion
of Satan over one who is lost from the fold of
eternal life.  The powers of darkness are grow-
ing thicker and darker, and the thraldom of sin
and iniquity is binding faster and stronger its
chains upon those who have stepped aside from
the "narrow way," and been caught even unawares
in the snares and devices of the enemy of all
righteousness.
   A venerable lady, who is now no more, has
often reiterated in our hearing a saying of Joseph
the Prophet, "that the time will come when the
powers of darkness will be so great that they
would be much more to be dreaded than disease,
for they would be more seductive, catching and
deadly in their nature."
   Surely this will come to pass, and how shall the
Saints guard and protect the innocent and inex-
perienced from such unforeseen and terrible
dangers?
   All the protection that can be thrown around
the youth of Zion, all the teaching of fathers,
mothers and instructors, as well as the noble ex-
ample that must ever characterize those who stand
as expounders of correct and holy principles, all
these and more will be necessary to preserve the
purity and faith, and promote the higher spiritual
development of the children of Zion under the
peculiar exigencies of the Saints in this day and
age, and the evils brought into their midst by
those who ridicule virtue, and set a price upon the
heads of men who seek to inculcate and establish
institutiosn that tend to a higher moral plane, and
a broader field of philanthropic effort for the hu-
man family; men who have thrown aside the
advantages and emoluments that the world offers,
for the sake of doing a nobler and holier work for
the benefit of mankind, temporally as well as
spiritually. And this work cannot fail, however
offensive it may be to the government, and to those
who cannot comprehend its fitness and genius, yet
it will endure, and those who fight against it will
be destroyed, just as the prophets foretold.  Mean-

[Column 2]
﻿time the Saints have need to guard every loophole
where sin and iniquity might enter, or any evil
influence penetrate to lead astray the weak, the
young and unsuspecting. 
	If the youth of Zion will hearken to the coun-
sel and instruction of their parents, and of those
who are set to lead and guide in Israel, they will
choose“that better part,” and gain that true knowl-
edge that cannot be taken away.  There is much
to learn in the present for those who will avail
themselves of the grand opportunities which are
now open to them, and also much to be achieved.
There will be abundant material, too, in the events
now transpiring, to make history and biography
replete with thrilling incident and interest.  There
is no monotony in Mormonism, there are always
new occurrences, new scenes, new phases to make
it interesting, and add to its importance as a
religious system and social topic.  The injustice
shown to the people of Utah, after their having
settled upon desert lands and made them habitable
and fruitful, must necessarily have a telling effect
upon the children and rising generation, for they
cannot help feeling and realizing the wrongs their
parents have suffered from that free government
which should have vouchsafed to them protection
and religious toleration, instead of which it has
encouraged and authorised encroachment upon
rights, civil and religious, even to disfranchise-
ment and cruel persecution.
   The report of the Utah Commission to the
Secretary of the Interior,and the extreme measures
these men have suggested to the general govern-
ment, are too much even for many bitter opponents
of the Latter-day Saints to countenance and
approve.
   The judges and their satellites, who administer
and enforce the proscriptive laws, made to punish
men who have chosen the better part, that leads
to exaltation and endless lives, are so blinded by
bigotry and the love of greed that they cannot see
to pluck the beam from their own eyes, but prob-
ing with instruments of keenest quality to discover
the mote in the eye of any true “Mormon.”  The
words of the Savior in regard to the beam may,
with all consistency, be applied to the terrible
and crying social evils that exist in all the great
cities of the world, and indeed throughout
Chirstendom; while here in Utah a few have
accepted a higher and better form of marriage,one
that tends to social purity and the elevation of the
human race, and these citizens cry aloud against
any little mote,which,compared to the practices and
habits of so-called enlightened society, may well
be reckoned as a mote to the beam.  The noble
and heroic examples of many whose lot it has
been to stand before the courts and receive sen-
tence, has won for them the admiration of all who
recognize true manliness.  And there can be no
doubt as to the result of such conduct upon the
youth of Zion.  It will tend to strengthen the
weak and give courage to the indifferent, and
prove beyond a fear of contradiction, to the hon-
est and sincere lovers of truth, that there is an in-
herent power in the institutions of the Church
that enables its followers to rejoice in tribulation,
and through suffering to be made strong, that
thereby they may attain to the same glory and
blessings as Abraham, having been tried like un-
to him and the Saints in all ages.


[Column 1]
	In Memoriam
	Died, in this city, Tuesday, at 2 p.m., Novem-
ber 10th, Mrs. Phoebe Whittemore Woodruff, wife
of the Apostle Wilford Woodruff, President of
the Quorum of the Twelve. Sister Woodruff's
death was sudden, although she had been suffer-
ing from the effects of a fall, which occurred
about four weeks previous, and she had been fail-
ing somewhat in health for the past few months.
The absence of her husband, on account of the
persecution now raging against this people, calls

[Column 2]
out the sympathies of all their friends, and
especially because of their advanced age and the
many years they had spent together.
	In many respects Sister Woodruff was a re-
markable woman. She was strong-minded in the
best sense of the word, and her integrity to the
Gospel could ssarcely be surpassed; she had en-
dured much privation and hardship that her
husband might fill his mission among the nations
without murmur or complaint. Twice she accom-
panied her husband abroad upon missions; once
to the Fox Islands, and to England. She has
ever been an earnest and energetic worker among
the sisters in the organizations of the Relief So-
ciety and the Associations, and has filled several
honorable positions. She was chosen President
of the Relief Society in the Fourteenth Ward at
the time of its organization in the spring of 1857,
by Bishop Hoagland, and held the position until
the move south, resigning after her return, on
account of increased family cares. Sister Wood-
ruff was one of the presiding officers of the
General Retrenchment meetings, that are held
semi-monthly in this city in the interest of women's
associations and advancement. She has traveled 
extensively in the Territory with her husband and
the sisters, exhorting and instructing the sisters in
their duties in the organizations, and in the various 
spiritual and practical labors, in which woman's
mission upon earth consists. Sister Woodruff
was a woman wise in counsel, and one that ex-
celled in judgement. When the Deseret Hospital
Association was organized, she was chosen one
of the Board of Directors, which position she
held until her death. She was well versed in the
Scriptures and in Church history, and gifted in 
faith and prayer, religious in her nature and
characteristically Puritanic in her attributes,
domestic habits and conduct.
	At the Woman's Mass Meeting in the Salt Lake
Theatre, Nov. 16th, 1878, Sister Woodruff de-
livered a powerful extempore address on the
woman's side of the "Mormon" Question, in fact
her whole life, since she received the Gospel, has
been devoted to her faith, and she has abundantly
proved her zeal and devotion by her labors, both
public and private.
	Sister Woodruff was born in Scarboro, Maine,
March 8th, 1807. Her parents were of English de-
scent; her maiden name was Carter, and on her
mother's side Fabyan. In 1834 she embraced
the Gospel, and about a year after went to Kirt-
land, Ohio. Her parents and friends were much
grieved at her leaving them, and her mother re-
marked she would much rather bury her, and
when she was about leaving said to her, in the
most impressive manner, "Phoebe, will you come
back to me if you find Mormonism is false?"
And in the most affectionate manner the daughter
answered thrice repeated, "Yes, mother, I will!"
and her mother knew that she would keep her
promise. When all her preparations were made
she dared not trust herself to say "goodbye," but
wrote her farewell to each, "then ran down stairs
and jumped into the carriage," and drove away
from the beloved home of her childhood, alone in 
the world, for the love of the truth and for the
sake of uniting herself with the Saints of God.
	After her arrival in Kirtland, Miss Carter, as
she was then called, became acquainted with
Wilford Woodruff, whom she subsequently
married in 1836, and was the mother of nine
children, four of them now living; one son, Wil-
ford Woodruff Jun., and three daughters. Bro.
and Sister Woodruff came to the valley in 1850,
he having been called from Winter Quarters on a
mission to the Eastern States, whither his wife
accompanied him, after his return from the valley
with the pioneers.
	Sister Woodruff has left on record some very
powerful testimonies to the truth of the Latter-
day work, and of Joseph Smith, as a prophet, seer,
and revelator.


The writer was personally acquainted with Sis-
ter Phoebe W. Woodruff since the sojourn of the
Saints in Winter Quarters, and always found her
a true friend, a woman whose word was sacred,
true in every place and faithful to duty at all
times, a mother in Israel in very deed, firm and
unflinching in the hour of trial, patient and un-
complaining in adversity, and always a comfort
and strength to her family, and all with whom she
was associated.
	Her funeral was held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, on Thursday, Nov. 12, at one p.m.
where she had so often addressed the sisters in
their meetings. Beautiful flowers in profusion
were laid upon her coffin also a sheaf of wheat,
fully ripe, emblematic of her life and works. The
coffin was borne from her home to the Hall by
members of the family and near friends, followed
by the mourners, snme of the Apostles and
Board of Directors of the Deseret Hospital and
the Relief Society of the ward, in regular proces-
sion.
	The funeral services were conducted by Bishop
Thomas Taylor, and the singing, which was very
touching, was rendered by the ward choir.
Bishop O. F. Whitney offered an eloquent prayer,
and brief speeches were made by Apostles H. J.
Grant, J. H. Smith, Bishop L. D. Young, Prest. A.
O. Smoot, and Apostles J. W. Taylor and F. D.
Richards and the Bishop, each one testifying
to her integrity, faith and good works, and relating,
in some instances, incidents in her life and
character. The last hymn, "Come to me," was
very affectively rendered, and the benediction pro-
nounced by Patriarch John Smith. Thus after a
long and useful life, she has passed to her rest in
the full hope of a glorious resurrection beyond 
the grave. "Blessed are the dead who die in the
Lord."


