FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

		LAIE, Oahu, H. I., Oct. 28th, 1885.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	Since I wrote last, Sister Kaahanui Kaleohano,
one of our best Hawaiian sisters, prominently con-
nected, for many years, with the Relief Society of
these Islands, and mother to Sister Lucy Kahaule-
lio Ioane, now in Salt Lake City, has been called
to her last rest from mortal ills. She was a faith-
ful Latter-day Saint up to her last moment on
earth, and was for a long time a counselor to the
President of the Relief Society of the Islands,
but her failing health made it difficult for her to
perform the duties of that position, and at last
April Conference she was released from that call-
ing, and chosen for a counselor to the President
of the Laie Society, where her duties would be
more local and lighter, without materially lessen-
ing the value of her services to the cause.
	She joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in July, 1851, being baptized by Prest.
Georgo Q. Cannon. She was then about fifteen
years of age, having been born July 2nd, 1836, and
died on September 4th ult., of dropsy, after a
severe and lingering illness of several months,
which she bore with remarkable cheerfulness and
fortitude, putting her trust in the Lord, by which
she was relieved from all fears or anxiety respect-
ing the final change, that for weeks she calmly
anticipated. She was much beloved by all the
Saints at Laie, and by all that knew her, as was
fully attested by the entire colony, who gathered
to pay their last respects to her remains, shedding
many tears for her departure.
	The semi-annual conference of the Improve-
ment Associations was held at this place, on
October 2nd. There was a goodly attendance,
and the exercises were creditably performed, show-
ing commendable improvement in the young peo-
ple, and that an upward impetus has been given


to these interesting organizations of late by the
energy of the presiding officers.
	One of the interesting features of the conference
was the reading of the manuscript newspapers,
one being published by ladies, and another by the
gentlemen. In the ladies', entitled Ka Olino O
Na Mauna—The Splendor of the Mountains—
this being the third number, there were short,
spicy articles under the heading of "Dewdrops,"
"Provoking Mirth," "Means for Recuperating the
Race," "Foundations of Poverty and Real Wealth,"
"The Crown," "Catching the Monkey," a story
with a moral, "The Rose," "Gathering to the
Mountains," "The Famine for the Word of God."
"Beautiful Zion" (poetry), all of which, of course,
were written in the Hawaiian language, and for
the most part unintelligible to me, but, as I am in
formed, will compare favorably with like composi-
tions from among the young people at home, and
from the deep interest awakened in the congrega-
tion by the reading of these essays, I am satisfied
they must have possessed some intrinsic merit.
	The Conference of the Relief Society was held
on the 3rd, it being well represented from all the
Islands.  The reports showed that the different
branches were mostly in good working order, and
alive to the welfare of the widow and orphan, the
sick and destitute, and to the higher duties of
guiding and strengthening the morals and religious
proclivities of the mothers, daughters and children
of the Church, while some few were slack, being
neglected by those who were placed in charge.
Sister E. Farr was again sustained as general
President, with Sisters Wilcox Kalua Coles and
Kaheana Kealakaihonui, as Counselors.  Sister
Nalia Kekauoha was appointed First Counselor to
the President of the Laie Society, in the place of
Sister Kaahanui Kaleohano, deceased.
	Interesting and encouraging remarks were
made by several of the sisters, and all the officers
were unanimously sustained, and the financial
and other reports approved.
	On the 4th the General Semi-annual Conference
convened at 10 a.m., in the large new meeting
house, and continued, with the ordinary intermis-
ions, until the evening of the 6th.  This confer-
ence is said to be remarkable for the number of
people in attendance, and for the unremitting and
increasing interest manifested by all from begin-
ing to end.  The addresses of the Elders, both
foreign and native, were spirited and instructive,
as evinced by their almost magic effects upon the
congregation.  There seemed to be a united and
true Christian feeling existing among the Saints.
The hospitality of this people is remarkable.  In
this respect they are not surpassed, if equaled, by
the Saints in Zion, who are everywhere noted for
their benevolence, generosity and liberality, and,
withal, their patience, forbearance, and long-suffer-
ing.  I find many qualities among these poor
people to be admired, although there is much in
the conditton of society here that is deplorable, as
elsewhere, among more highly civilized people.
	Some few days previous to the conference the
Elders came in from their several fields of labor,
and remained on the plantation until the 17th inst.,
when they again took their departure to the va-
rious islands, and to their labors in the ministry
for the ensuing six months.  During the visit of
the Elders our little society was quite lively, the
brethren enjoying each other's company very
much after their separation.  We seem quite de-
serted now, since our number has become so few,
but from recent reports from home, we are looking
forward to the arrival of several new missionaries
soon. 
	The Saints have purchased a set of brass in-
struments, at a cost of nearly $400, and now, un-
der the tuition of Bro. Isaac Fox, of Lehi, Utah
Co., a selection of young men are making rapid
progress in the art of making music upon them,
and Laie will soon be favored with an efficient
brass band.  The natives take to music much a 

[Column 2]
they do to water—that is, like ducks, or amphibi-
ous animals, or like fish themselves.
	Some twenty-six acres of sugar cane has been
planted this summer, and the crops are looking
well.  This season has been very favorable for
crops. Stock looks well, feed being abundant on
account of copious rains.
	Praying for the welfare of Zion, and the loved
ones at home, I am, with love,
			Your sister in the Gospel,
									J.


