HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

     Strawberry Short-Cake.—Bake a rich paste in pie-plates.
Have six ready, In these spread stewed strawberries well
sweetened; lay one upon another, six deep. In winter,
use preserved or canned berries.

     Cocoanut Pie.—One cup of white sugar, butter size of
hen's egg, whites of three eggs, well beaten, one table-
spoonful of flour, three-quarters of a grated cocoanut, and
milk of cocoanut added last, or a tablespoonful of milk,
scant measure. Bake on pie-plates, lined with puff
paste.

     Mincemeat for Pies.—Three pounds of meat (after it is
boiled;) four pounds suet, three and one-half pounds
raisins, one and one-half pounds currants, one-half pound
dried cherries, three teaspoonfuls of Burnett's Extract of
Nutmeg, and mace to your taste. Four pints white wine,
one pint brandy, four pounds brown sugar.

     Mincemeat for Pies No 2.—Six cupfuls beef, twelve cup-
fuls apples, three cupfuls sugar, two cupfuls butter, two
pounds raisins, one quart cider, three tablespoonfuls cinna-
mon, two tablespoonfuls allspice, one tablespoonful of
Burnett's Extract of Nutmeg.

     Lemon Pie.—Two lemons, four eggs, two tablespoonfuls
of melted butter, eight tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar.
Grate the rinds and add two teaspoonfuls of Burnett's Ex-
tract of Lemon. Separate the yolks from the whites of
the eggs, and beat the yolks with half the sugar, all the
butter, rind and extract; pour in the crust and bake till the
pastry is done; then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff
froth, add the rest of the sugar, put in on the pie smooth-
ly and bake in a quick oven one minute; this makes the
upper crust.

     Lemon Pie No. 2.—One egg, one lemon, one tablespoon-
ful of cornstarch, four heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar; one
tablespoonful of melted butter; mix the corn starch with a
little water. Pour upon it a teacup of boiling water. Beat
the sugar and egg together, grate lemon, then add all to
corn starch. Bake with an undercrust. When done, beat
the white of one egg light, and one tablespoonful of pow-
dered sugar; put on top and brown in oven.

     Yankee Puffs. Two ounces of butter, three tablespoon-
fuls of sugar, three eggs (yolks and whites separate), three
teacups of milk, three teacups of flour, one saltspoonful of
salt, one and a half teaspoonfuls of Burnett's Extract of
Vanilla. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and
well-beaten yolks, then the milk, which should be salted


dredge in the flour by degrees, and when these are well
mixed, add the flavoring and whites of eggs, previously
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in well-buttered teacups,
about fifteen or twenty minutes, till of a light brown. As
these puffs rise very much, the cups must not be filled.
Serve as soon as done with sweet sauce.

	Plum Pudding.—Take three-quarters of a pound of
chopped suet, three-quarters of a pound of stoned raisins,
three-quarters of a pound of currants, quarter of a pound
of citron, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, three-quarters
of a pound of bread crumbs, two apples, cut into small
dice, and a tablespoonful of Burnett's Extract of Lemon;
mix the whole in a basin with three teaspoonfuls of
Burnett's Extract of Cloves, a pinch of salt, six eggs, and
a half a gill of rum or brandy. Butter a pudding mould,
fill it with the mixture, and tie a cloth over the top. Place
a plate at the bottom of a kettle, which is three parts full
of boiling water. Put the pudding in, and boil for four
hours, keeping the pot replenished with boiling water.
Turn out the pudding on a hot dish; sprinkle with sugar.
Pour over half a pint of warm rum or brandy; light it when
putting on the table. Serve with German sauce.


