CORRESPONDENCE. 
CASCADE LOCKS, OREGON, Nov. 8th, 1885.
MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS:
     My ever Blessed Sister.—If I should try I
could not describe how refreshing your kind letter
was away here, although I am surrounded with
dear ones.
     In this romantic place of nature's wild fastnesses
—it would seem reaching "up to nature's God."
In front of the house the rapids commence.  The
grand old Columbia, with silent majesty, like time,
"never reutrns to grind a mill."  Across the river
is Washington Territory.  The banks, as well as
the mountains beyond, are covered with evergreen
—Oregon Fir it is called.  There are little lakes
close to the base of the mountain opposite, manu-
facturing clouds that rise so white and beautiful;
the down stream wind and mountain currents of
air, sometimes causes them to cross each other,
while the green trees below make a most charm-
ing picture; above the clouds are grand, this
morning, especially, as the struggling sun rays fell
in spots at the summit, they gave it a grandeur
truly sublime.
     After twelve days of rain—for twenty-four
hours it had not ceased to come straight down—
this is winter weather here.  The old settlers say
the country is improving, but I often think there is
no place like home, although my duty called me
here, and I am always happy and contented in the
fulfillment of duty.  How lonely it is here, you can
only imagine; comfortable and luxurious in doors,
with books, papers and music, but all these grow
monotonous, in sickness in particular.	*	*
     I intended to have been in the Logan Temple
and part of the time in the city this winter, but
things come so unlooked for.  I am thankful the
Deseret Hospital is getting along as well as it is;
I was so in hopes to have done something to
benefit the institution while in Logan, but fate
seems to control us often contrary to our own
calculations, but I shall try to do the best I can
always.  My health is improving some; the rheuma-
tism is not so bad, although the damp weather is
not so very pleasant; I have to be so careful.
     The lack of appropriation for River and Harbor
improvements by Congress this last year, is a
detriment here.  It will take about four years to
complete the work here if liberally appropriated
for by Congress.
     Dear sister, I often think of the pleasant times
we have had, as neighbors, and in visits, meetings,
etc.; I trust we may yet have many more.  Please
remember me kindly to those across the water,
your own dear self, and the loved ones in Salt
Lake.	*	*	*	*	*	God bless
our dear loved ones, wherever they are—a mother's
daily and most humble petition.
     You have still a busy life in doing good.  I 
ever feel to pray for you all, my dear sisters—
E. R. S. Smith, M. I. Horne, E. S. Taylor—yes,
all that are trying to do good, my heart is with you,
especially when you meet in the Fourteenth Ward
meeting; the faces of the loved ones are ever be-
fore me; I long for their sweet company, the
loving shake of the hand.  I had no thought of
being thus separated when I saw you last, but it
is all right, we learn new lessons that will be for

[column 2]
our good, for we do trust in Father, and acknowl-
edge His hand in all things.
     God bless you, my precious sister.  I often say
in my heart, "The duties you perform are many,"
but there is One who knows.  Sweet peace, health,
strength and wisdom ever be yours, is a loving
sister's daily wish, and all your blessings and
promises, if faithful, will surely be realized, and
they are many, so never be discouraged.
     Love to dear Sister Atwood, Sister Grant and
Goddard, Sister Lydia Ann Wells and the others."
	Your sister in the everlasting covenant,
