ORDERVILLE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Our Relief Society has been in working-
order for the past ten years.  With Louise O.
Spencer as Prest. and Susannah S. Frackrell
and Clarrissa A. Hoyt as her Counselors; with
occasional changes of Secretary and Treasurer. 
Thongh not possessed of a great abundance
of this world's goods, we are still able to add
our mite towards building Temples, assisting
the poor, etc.
     We have this year succeeded in purchasing
a very suitable house, one large room below
and two rooms above, which gives us good
store room.  Our meetings are held regularly,
and a good spirit prevails.
     Occasionally we meet in social gatherings,
one of which took place on Thursday 29th ult,
that being the 49th birthday of Sister Susan-
nah S. Fackrell, her children wished to meet,
with many of her friends, at her new house,
not as a surprise party, but just to have a
good, sociable time.
     Accordingly, about one o'clock, a company
of about sixty persons met, and enjoyed
friendly greetings and a good dinner, after
which a hymn was sung, and the house dedi-
cated; Prest. T. Chamberlain offering the dedi-
catory prayer.
     The brethren being very much hurried with
their labors, then retired.
     After new arrivals were refreshed, the meet-
ing was given into the hands of Prest. L. C.
Spencer.  A hymn was sung, after which a
very impressive prayer was offered by Sister
Clarrissa A. Hoyt.
     Many strong testimonies were borne and
many comforting words spoken, with many
kind wishes for the welfare of Sister Fackrell.
     The meeting closed with singing and prayer,
when the company dispersed, all feeling that
we had had an enjoyable time.
     Praying that the Lord will preserve the
honest in the truth, and comfort and strenghten
all in the trials we may have to pass through,
we remain your sisters and co-workers in the
cause of truth.
     LOUISE C. SPENCER,
     SUSANNAH S. FACKRELL,
     CLARRISSA A. HOYT,
     LYDIA K. YOUNG, Treasurer,
    HANNAH E. HOYT, Secretary.

[column 2]
