HOME-MADE CHRISTMAS GIFTS.

	AN UMBRELLA-STAND.—Take a piece of
stove-pipe of proper length; cover the outside
with Lincrusta Walton, procurable by the
yard at almost any paper-hanger’s; gild or
bronze this with the liquid prepared for such
purpose. Paint the inside of the pipe a dark
red, and fit in a wooden bottom.
	LETTER RACK.—Select two smooth and
strong wooden butter-plates such as are sup-
plied by your grocer; cut one down for the
pocket; place the edges together and glue a
strip of black muslin over them. Give the
whole two coats of black paint. Paste on
daisies cut from cretonne or, better, paint them
on—if you can; varnish the whole rack inside
and out with white varnish; add hanging rib-
bons to match the daisies.
	CUSHION FOR HAIR-PINS.—To the bottom
of a round box—say a collar-box—about four
inches in diameter, and one and a half high,
glue a piece of pasteboard as a rim. Do not
use the cover. Fill the box with curled hair.
Crochet, from straw-colored Saxony worsted, a
cover to fit snugly over the box and thus form
the crown of the hat; crochet a rolling rim on
this and draw it over the pasteboard. Tie a


ribbon around the crown as a hat-band, with a
bow on one side.
	SCRAP BASKET.—Get or make two paste-
board boxes of the desired height, one of
them two inches smaller in diameter than the
other.  Place one within the other, fastening
the bases together, and join at the top with a
two-inch strip of pasteboard sewed strongly
around the tops. Sew a neat cretonne panel
on each side, with a band of plush at top and
bottom and a plush ball and tassel at each cor-
ner.  Line with silesia to match the plush.
Or, the panels may be of satin with flowers
painted in.
	A PHOTOGRAPH CASE—capable of holding
several dozen cabinet or imperial cards may
be made by folding a piece of plush together
and cutting it two inches larger than the card.
Cut out a piece of wigan for lining, a trifle
smaller, and baste it on the plush; then baste
the plush, and line the edges with satin, hem-
ming this on with very fine stitches.  The
pockets are of plush, one quarter the width of
the case; turn the edges of these and hem them
to the back.  Decorate the pockets with “For-
get-me-nots,” or some other appropriate flower-
	SCRAP BASKET.—Get four bamboo sticks
from some furniture factory, or four rustic
sticks if bamboo is not obtainable; gild the
rustic sticks if these are used.  Purchase a
fancy straw basket and line it with satin.
Make the lambrequin of plush of the color of
the lining; cut the lower edge in squares and
point each square.  Embroider a spray of
flowers in the space between the sticks.  Line
it with satin and attach to each point a tassel
made of crewel.  Fasten the lambrequin
over the inner edge of the basket so as to con-
ceal the top of the lining.  Mount the basket
on the sticks, tacking it on from the inside.
	A CARD RECEIVER.—This may be made by
cutting three pieces of rattan, each nine inches
long, and joining them at the top by tying
them together with strong thread.  Spread two
of them far enough apart at the bottom to
make a well proportioned easel, and attach
the cross-piece as a rest.  Cut the envelope—a
perfect square—from a piece of panama canvas;
bind the edges with narrow brown satin ribbon,
and work some little pattern in the corners
with brown silk; fold and overhand the lower
parts together in to envelop-shape, and fasten
it on the easel.  Ravel out a piece of the can-
vas and tie a bunch of the raveling at the top
and at each foot of the easel with a ribbon
bow.
	CHRISTMAS BANNER.—Over a piece of
heavy brown paper of the size of the proposed
banner, stitch a piece of light sea-green cotton
flannel for the central panel, and very dark
cotton flannel for the bands at bottom and top.
The pendant balls are made with the dark
flannel over round pieces of pasteboard.  Sus-
pend them on gilt cord; a heavier cord, to
match, should be used for hanging the banner.
Sew a piece of natural holly in the central
panel; cut the letters from white paper; glue
white cotton on their faces, and then sow the
letters to the dark bands. Glue or stitch
small pieces of cotton all over the banner to
suggest snow.  Larger pieces should be glued
at the top of the bands and upon the pend-
ants.
	PHOTOGRAPH SCREEN.—Cut out eight pieces
of pasteboard, each 8 1/2 iuches by 6 1/2.  In four
of these pieces cut away the centers to form
the mats or inside of the screen.  Cover each
mat neatly with wine-colored satin, letting it
overlap the opening in each mat about half an
inch; slash and baste around each opening.
Cover the back of the mats with silesia and
hem the satin on this.  Cover the other four
pieces with satin on one side and silesia on the
other; overhand them around the edges. Baste

[Column 2, cont.]
the mats and backs together, silesia inside, and
overhand them together on all sides except the
top, which is left open for slipping in the photo-
graphs.  Decorate each mat neatly and grace-
fully.  The name of the person to whom the
screen is to be given may be worked on the
outside.
	A PAPER RACK.—Get a wooden box—a
starch or soap box—from your grocer.  Take
it apart, and plane and smooth it carefully.
Use the bottom of the box for the back of the
rack.  Cut one of the end pieces to a width of
six inches, for the shelf; saw the brackets for
the sides of the shelf from the side-pieces of
box, and cut the lid flown to the right dimen-
sions for the slanting front of the rack.  Ebon-
ize all the parts with the “ebony liquid” used by 
cabinet-makers; nail shelf, brackets, and slant-
ing front, securely; putty the nail-holes and
blacken them, so that they will not be noticed.
Cover the front of the rack with some neat
border design in Lincrusta Walton, gluing it
on, and gilding it, or leaving it the natural
color, as desired.  Put strong cord or fancy
wire through the back of the rack to hang it
up by.
	POCKET PIN CUSHIONS.—To make the pansy,
cut three pieces of purple velvet, and three of
yellow silk, line with bits of white wigan, and
join as nearly as possible in pansy form.  Cut 
a back to fit the whole, cover this with purple
velvet, and join it to the pansy with a layer of
cotton between, sprinkled with sachet powder.
A few lines of yellow paint on the purple
leaves, and purple on the yellow leaves will
give more of the pansy look.
	The star is formed of twelve diamond
shaped pieces of card-board—six for the front
and six for the back, alternately covered with
dark aud light plush or velvet.  Overhand the
parts together, and join the back and front of
the star, placing a layer of scented cotton be-
tween.
	The domino is made of black satin ribbon,
cut to just the size of a domino.  Work the
dots in with white silk; glue both faces to stiff
cardboard; make a narrow edge of black satin,
overhand the dominos together; fill with bran
and sachet powder before closing up one end.—
St. Nicholas.


