PATTY SESSIONS.

[Continued.]

	Sister Sessions speaks of many times of re-
freshing little meetings and mentions many
names of sisters who have since passed behind
the vail that were associated in these meetings
—Louisa Beamen, Vilate Kimball, Sister
Robert Pearce and Sister Leonora Taylor and
Sister Cutler.  In several places in her diary
she refers to blessings pronounced upon the
heads of the sisters that have since come to
pass.
	On Saturday, the 15th of June, 1847, as re-
corded in her journal, having previously made
all needful preparations, Sister Sessions, with
her husband and family, left Winter Quarters
to come to "the mountains," as she terms it.
It was just ten years on that very day since
they left their fireside and home in the State
of Maine to come to the gathering place of the
Saints.  Sister Sessions says, "I drove one
wagon with a four ox team; we went only four
miles the first day, and the next day went on
fifteen miles further; there are fifty-one wagons
with us; third day we travel seven miles, there
was a heavy thunder shower, but we reach the
camp on the Horn River."  Then she des-
cribes the crossing of the river by this large
company of heavily loaded wagons, the various
inconveniences, the sinking of the raft at one
time wetting the meat and grain, the unload-
ing, drying the provisions, etc.  There are
many of us who remember similar occurences
in our own experience on that journey, no
doubt, and wonder, perhaps, as I often do, how
we endured it all so bravely.
	Friday, the 11th, she says, "Fifty-five more
wagons came up, and all crossed the Horn
River safely.  Patriarch John Smith came up
to the company on the 12th, and brought word
that Sister Mary Ann Pratt had arrived at
Winter Quarters.  Bro. Parley P. Pratt went
back from the camp to see her."  On the 17th
she says Bro. Pratt returned and Sister Eliza
R. Snow and a great many others came up.
Here she mentions Bro. John Taylor coming.
"Tuesday, the 15th, the brethren are called
together to organize."  She mentions the sis-
ters "hulling corn,"  and making small cheeses.
The 17th and 18th, the brethren keep coming,
and mentions the marshall going back for the
cannon.  "On the 19th we leave camp at 12
o' clock and travel fifteen miles to the Platte
River, and on Tuesday, the 22nd, the cannon,
Nauvoo Temple bell and the skiff having
arrived a 8 o'clock in the morning, the organ-
ized company moved on, traveling five abreast,
the two cannons, Temple bell and skiff heading
the middle line; go fifteen miles and camp on
the prairie, near the Platte River.  24th move
on ten miles, and stop at 10 o'clock, waiting
for others to come up and have a meeting to
receive instruction.  25th, go two miles, and
camp with a company of Indian traders; Dr.
Bartlett was one of the company.  They had
been to Pawnee.  26th, go twenty miles, and
camp on Beaver Creek.  Sunday, June 27th,
we had a public meeting for the whole camp."
Sister Sessions also writes of a meeting of the


[Column 1]
sisters later in the day, and that her grand-
daughter. Martha Ann, asked to have a little
meeting with Martha Van Cott, and that the
gift of tongues was given them. 28th, the
men were called out to drill, and she speaks of
the bell ringing for prayers throughout the
camp night and morning. "At 1 o'clock our
company moved on, the cannon in the rear;
Parley's division go in the rear this week. 29th,
we travel ten miles, and camp on the Loupe
Fork of the Platte River; we passed the Pawnee
village; it had been burnt recently by the Sioux.
30th, we wait one hour for Smoot's company to
go on out of our way; go ten miles, when we
come up with the whole camp. The men go
out to find a safe place to cross. We passed
another Indian village to-day. July 1st we 
cross; Bro. Taylor's company go ahead, and
we travel about one mile after crossing the
river. July 2nd we go on twenty miles, and
camp on the prairie without wood or water,
but we had a heavy shower of rain with a great
deal of wind. July 3rd we go on sixteen miles,
and strike the pioneer trail near the Platte
River—Peregrine shot an antelope—Bro.
Sheets calls this Musquito Bend. We found
old wickiups to burn to cook our food by.
Sunday, the 4th, we rested and held a meeting.
The sisters had a meeting afterwards at Sister
Thompson's tent. Monday, the 5th, made a
bridge to cross the creek; we travel fifteen
miles; Parley's company go in front. We
traveled all day on the poineer's trail, and
camped on their camping ground; found a
guide board which marked 217 miles from
Winter Quarters, but the way we have come
it is 190 miles. Tuesday, the 6th, we went on
eighteen miles, and camped on the bank of a
stream from the Platte, where Indians had
been camping; some of us burnt the wickiups
for wood, others waded the stream and brought
over wood on their backs. The camp did not 
all come up with us; Smoot's company have
not come, and Grant's company have not been
heard from since Monday. Go fifteen miles
Wednesday, and camp where the pioneers did;
found another guide-board, which said they
had killed eleven buffaloes before the 2nd of
May. Thursday move on a little farther, and
come on the pioneer's camp again; found
another guide-board, and Peregrine and Bro. 
Pratt saw two horses; Bro. Pratt and Bro Tay-
lor caught them; (supposed they had been lost
by the pioneers). The sloughs are so bad we
cannot follow the trail of the pioneers. Friday
night we camp on the Platte River. Saturday
a party from the camp went out to hunt, and
Sunday morning sent back for a wagon to
bring in their game. We held a meeting, and
also a meeting of the sisters. The hunter re-
turned with 1,800 weight of buffalo meat.
Monday morning it was divided out among
the camp; we stopped, after going twelve miles,
to smoke the meat; the brethren went out to
an island to get wood. Bro. Spencer's com-
pany travel ahead this week; he is Captain
over the first hundred wagons. On the 13th
we go fifteen miles, and find the grass very
short; some of our men went hunting and killed
four buffaloes. In Grant's company, the cattle
broke out of the yard last night, killed a cow,
broke off several horns and broke a horse's leg;
they have to stop and recruit, etc. The 14th
we go on six miles, and stop for the rest of the
camp to come up; we've seen two herds of
buffalo to-day, and found a guide-board with a
letter in it, stating it is 360 miles from Winter
Quarters; we call it 284 by our calculations;
killed one buffalo, and divided it out in our 
fifty." Here she writes about oxen being sick,
and tells of the ways contrived to exchange
and to work one ox alone on the lead, etc. On
the 16th she speaks of having seen thousands
of buffalo, that some ran in among their
cattle, and one was shot, and three others
wounded.

[Column 2]
	So the journal goes on day after day, telling
of hardships, of the exertions made to get wood
to cook the food, of the wild game they kill
and divide, etc., of the cattle they have die,
and those that stray away, etc. On the 17th
she states they got word that Grant's company
had lost seventy-five head of cattle. Sunday,
the 18th, they get letters from the pioneers,
and they were read in the meeting; they were
left at the ferry which the pioneers had made.
On the 20th a meeting was called of four hun-
dred, and decided that five yoke of cattle must
be spared out of each hundred to send back to
assist Grant's company. A man was sent back
with them—Bro. Gusten.
	These items are only given in detail to show
how this second company from Winter Quarters
traveled. It being the first company after the
pioneers, and following on so soon after, makes
it of more consequence historically than those
companies traveling later.
	During the time of journeying, almost daily,
it seems from the records, there were children
born—one or more—and so far no deaths, ex-
cept the man that was shot at the Horn River.
Women were miraculously preserved under
these trying circumstances, and the greatest
faith seems to have been given to all, even the
children; indeed, the Spirit of the Lord was
poured out upon them insomuch that they re-
joiced continually.


