FATHERS OF THE NEXT GENERA-
TION.
	Pass by the girl of the period for once, and
consider the ways of the young man of our
day.  Is he such a paragon that he has a
right to set himself up as a railer at the gen-
tler sex?  That the young woman has taken
new fields of work is very true, but she has
done so in spite of the competition of the
young man of the period, and thus earned her
place by the survival of the fittest.  While
she has done this the native young man has
left the plow and the work-shop, and has
sought what he supposes is more genteel em-
ployment, until the useful branches of indus-


try are now largely filled by persons born and
trained in other countries.  While the general
increase of education has opened up many new
employments for girls, and they have taken
their places in them bravely, the young men
have drifted into clerkships or speculation,
or into the small politics, most ruinous of all.
The same is true in matters of higher culture.
The young man has become listless, or idle, or
has gone undisciplined, while the girls have
organized book and music clubs, attended lec-
tures, and otherwise fitted themselves for the
more exacting duties of our modern life.  It
is often the case that, while the rich young
man goes rapidly to the dogs by reason of his
bad habits and worse vices, his sister is en-
gaged in the exacting duties of church or
charity, or in other work which cultivates the
humanities and does the world some good.
The real truth is that, the country over, there
are not enough earnest, deserving, ambitious
young men to marry the honest, sensible, well-
meaning girls who are ready to do a true
woman’s part in building up good and happy
homes.  Our family training, defective as it
may be in many respects, has still kept the
rein on girls, while it has given the spur
to boys, and if the gamblers are sensible they
will try to devise some way to overcome this
inequality, and thus bring the young man up
to such a standard as shall fit him to do some-
thing else in life than to stand off and rail at
the follies or the frivolities of young women.—
Selected.


