[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 15 | Special Feature | Ivon W. Peterson Appointed General Secretary-Treasurer | Belle S. Spafford]
[Ivon W. Peterson Appointed General Secretary-Treasurer Belle S. Spafford]

Spafford = The General Presidency of Relief Society is pleased to announce the appointment by the First Presidency of Sister Evon Waspe Peterson as General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society on November 15, 1967. Sister Peterson has served as a member of the General Board since June 1945, during which time she has made a significant contribution to the advancement of the work of Relief Society as a General Board member, and has endeared herself to the women of Relief Society through her thoughtful consideration of them and through her capable service in working with them. In April 1952, she was named Administrative Assistant to the General Presidency, a_ position which involves responsible managerial duties, which she has met with competency and in a spirit of dedicated service. Through training and experience in both Relief Society work and in the field of business, Sister Peterson is eminently qualified to hold the important office of General Secretary-Treasurer. Prior to her call to the General Board, she held responsible positions with the Red Cross, was secretary for the Community Chest drive for several years, and for ten years she was secretary to the Superintendent of the Granite School District. Since her childhood, she has consistently worked in the auxiliaries of the Church, serving the Relief Society in both ward and stake capacities, generally holding secretary-treasurer or presidency offices. Sister Peterson is by nature modest and unassuming. She is loyal to those who preside over her and is trustworthy in every assignment given her. She is a prodigious as well as a_ highly competent worker. She is the wife of John Vernon Peterson and the mother of two children—a daughter, Carolee Peterson Kempton, and a son, Ronald E. Peterson—all of whom devotedly support her in her Church callings. She is the grandmother of six children. Sister Peterson's parental homethe home of Brother and Sister Willam Waspe, converts to the Church from England—was a home where service to the Church was a way of life. In her new appointment, she has the love and confidence of the General Presidency and her associates on the General Board. Her future service will be a blessing to the sisters and to the Relief Society just as her past service has been. We all wish for her much happiness in her new calling.