[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 46 | Fiction | Janet | W. Breeze]
45 Chapter 5 Throw Down the Gauntlet Janet W. Breeze SYNOPSIS: Nancy Jackson, with two children, accompanies her husband, Grant, on a teaching assignment to the Island of Truk. After a brief stopover on Guam, the family arrives on Truk, where a quonset hut becomes their home. However, Nancy is told by a native doctor that she will have to go to a hospital on Guam for the arrival of twin babies. In the meantime, the family observes the Sabbath and hears part of the Tabernacle Choir broadcast. A letter arrives from the Mortensens, their friends, saying that the Jackson -family will be welcomed by the Mortensens on Saipan, and that another teacher has been found to exchange teaching assignments with Grant on Truk. » The sign was painted white, and the black letters read: "Welcome to Saipan— Capital of Micronesia." The dismal looking concrete and clapboard buildings with corrugated steel roofs were also white, and the dust from the crushed coral road gave the vines of purple Bougainvillea an eerie pastel appearance. "That's downtown," Francine Mortensen pointed out, "Chalan Kanoa, the main village. However, whenever anyone on the hill tells you he is going to the village, it just means he is going shopping, because there are villages and stores dotted all over the island. Mostly, though, we stick to the two stores which 46 are air-conditioned and carry the widest variety of American foods." "That was one thing that really surprised me about Truk," Nancy said. "Truk trading— they carried just about anything one could think of. I really came out to Trust Territory prepared for a steady diet of raw fish and coconuts!" Francine laughed. "Have you eaten any raw fish yet?" "No!" 'Well, you're bound to before long. Sashimi is the most popular party food on the island—raw tuna covered with soy sauce and lemon juice." "T like hot dogs and mustard," Grant said. "Sashimi's all right if you like the smell of raw_ fish," Charles Mortensen said, "because that is exactly what it tastes like." "Til take you shopping tomorrow," Francine said. "The Ladies' Welcoming Committee left enough food in the quonset for you until then. So you can just take it easy today." "Listen," Charles said, turning a bit in the car seat to glance back at Nancy and Grant, "about the quonset. I hope you won't mind it. But since school has already started, the houses are all full." "We're quite used to quonset living now,' Nancy laughed. "Besides—people need things to look forward to. And we can dream about teachers terminating and leaving empty houses next summer!" "Now, that's the right attitude to have," Francine said. "I can tell right now, you two are going to get along here just great!" Amy and Skipper watched wide-eyed out of the windows as the car sped along Beach Road. "It's much more jungly here than it is on Truk," Nancy said. "Oh, that's just our boonies." Francine laughed. '"Tangen-tangen, actually. But back in Navy days, I guess someone started calling it the 'boondocks,' and now even the Saipanese call it the boonies. There really is other growth back in there. Tangentangen is not native to Saipan at all. But the entire island was so devastated and burned off by flame-throwers in the war, that the Government seeded this stuff by air to keep the soil Throw Down the Gauntlet from eroding. Now it's twenty - feet high, and so dense one can't walk through it except with a machete. But it does provide the Saipanese with lots of good firewood for their outdoor cooking. And privacy? Well, you'd never know there was a house on the island!" "Look, Mama!" "Chickens!" "Yes," Charles said. "Our one and only chicken farm on the whole island, where eggs are large, fresh, and only one dollar a dozen." "Oh, not here, too,' Nancy said. "That's one thing I am still wondering about. Our food budget has exactly doubled." "There's one way to_ beat that," Charles said, "get used to local foods, and forget those canned and frozen imports. Now Francine puts together a salad of fresh pineapple, papaya, and avocado that will make you forget what lettuce even was!" "T also know 199 ways to prepare rice," Francine teased. "And that reminds me, Nancy, better put rice and soya on your shopping list. Your house girl will eat it every day for lunch." Then she laughed to_ herself. "You know? Before we came out here [ had one tiny bottle of soy sauce that lasted four years, and it was still only one-third gone. Now we go through one quart a month! Honestly, sometimes I think Olympia drinks it! But then, I shouldn't say anything. I use a lot more of it now, myself." "Excuse me," Grant said, "but did you say our house girl?" "Oh, yes. I hope you don't mind. I went ahead and lined up Amy said. 

47 January 1968

 a maid for you. Actually, I don't refer to Olympia as our maid, even though that's what the girls call themselves. Somehow, the word maid always brings to my mind a uniformed servant drawing a bubble bath, while her /ady eats breakfast between pink satin bed sheets! And it's nothing like that out here at all. In the first place, the Saipanese expect you to employ them; and in the second place, these girls are used to the climate and don't mind one bit standing over a hot ironing board all day." "I have noticed my ironing increase,' Nancy said. "It seems we are forever taking showers and changing clothes." "Right. Se I Hope you'll forgive me for employing Soledad." N ancy rested her head back on the seat of the car and closed her eyes. Maybe it would be nice having help, after all, especially with twins. It seemed such a long time since the day Grant had thrown her life into a turmoil by asking if she had ever heard of Micronesia. She hadn't really rested her mind since. Maybe, with a house girl, she would be able to unwind from the whole overwhelming experience of being uprooted so abruptly. And it would give her more time to spend with Amy and Skipper. But the first thing I want to do when I get home, she thought, is just to sleep, and sleep, and sleep. The Mortensen car climbed the long winding road to the top of Navy Hill, made its way around a broad clearing marked 48 off as a ball field, and stopped in front of a bright yellow garbage can decorated with oversized daisies. In the doorway of the quonset stood a short, but large, Saipanese woman. "Soledad," Francine said, as they got out of the car, "this is Mr. And Mrs. Jackson, Amy, and Skipper." Soledad leaned over, wrapped her huge brown arms around Skipper and whisked him up into the air. "T like babies," she said. Skipper screamed and kicked. "T not a baby! Put me down! Put me down!" Soledad complied with his wishes, shaking her finger at him. "Baba patgon lahe!" "I'm terribly sorry," Nancy said. "I hope he didn't hurt you. He's probably just tired from the trip." "Baba patgon lahe!" Then she waddled toward the car to get the suitcases, as the rest of them went into the quonset. Nancy whispered to Francine, "Doesn't she speak English?" "Oh, yes. What she said was that Skipper was a bad boy. She speaks English all right— but gets frustrated in pure Chamarro!" Then Charles reached out and put an arm each around Grant and Nancy. "You don't know what it means to us to have you here," he said. "You'll never know. We've been the only Latterday Saints on the island for six years. This is a very special day in our lives." "Which reminds me," Francine said, "I usually hold Primary with our girls on Wednesdays after school. So why don't I take your children home with me and bring them back afterwards, and you can rest." "Don't you want me to come to Primary?": "Take it easy today," Charles laughed. "Next week you can be president! And let's see," he began counting on his fingers, "with Francine' playing our piano for Sunday School, we can also use a chorister. And with more children, we will need a new Sunday School teacher so we can split the membership into age groups. Then we have made it a practice to hold our Family Home Evening on Sunday afternoon to discourage the children from wanting to go to the beach with their friends. And after they're in bed Sunday evenings, Francine and I usually read the lessons in The Relief Society Magazine and discuss. Them. Anyway, rest today. You'll have lots to do from now on." "Sounds marvelous!" Nancy said. "For the last month, I have felt totally inactive." As Grant stood at the window and watched the Mortensens drive away with Skip and Amy, Nancy opened her suitcase and began to look around for places to put things. "IT do dat!" Soledad said, grabbing a pile of clothes. "But I don't really know where I want to put them yet," Nancy said. "T show you." And away she went down the hall to the bedroom. Grant turned around 'smiling. "I guess she told you." Nancy shrugged her shoulders Throw Down the Gauntlet and continued sorting through the suitcases, while Soledad came back for more. "IT saw a box of soap powder on the washer,' Nancy said. "Would you mind washing these few soiled clothes we brought with us, Soledad?" "You buy soap in yellow box!" "What's the matter with the soap in the blue box?" Nancy asked. "Yellow box get clothes clean! American magazine say so!" Grant turned his head and tried to keep a straight face, while Nancy walked out to the kitchen to wash the clothes. Then Soledad began singing "I Wanna Hold Your Hand," at the top of her voice, as she dragged the heaviest suitcase toward the bedroom and then returned. N ancy lifted a root-bound Philodendron, resting in a foilcovered jar, down from the top of the refrigerator. "This thing needs' water," she said, holding it under the faucet. But as the water spilled up over her hand, so did something else. And as two black, beady eyes stared up at her from the back of her hand, Nancy screamed, dropped the _ bottle, and shook all over. "Nancy!" Grant said. "It's only a harmless little gecko!" "It was a lizard!" "You scare him!" Soledad accused. "You scare him! Gecko good luck. And you scare him!" Nancy looked at the two of them, shrugged her shoulders in defeat and walked toward the 

49 January 1968

 bedroom. It was the middle \ of the afternoon, but the bare bed with the cool white sheets looked inviting, so she crawled in between. Her legs ached from sitting so SX long on the plane, and her head ached, just because. As a. Sudden shower began rattling against the quonset, Nancy closed her eyes and tried to imagine what it would be like to have a baby on Saipan. Francine had already warned her about the rose-colored bedding— the philosophy being that Dr. Torres' was a low-budget hospital; that Japanese dye was cheaper than American bleach, so they used color to prevent the sheets from wearing out so fast. Francine had also told her to keep her suitcase packed with everything, including silverware, personal items, and towels— even a jug of drinking water, unless she liked the chlorine density of village water. Thinking about' Francine made Nancy smile and begin to relax into sleep. How good it would be to have a friend who understood.... But sleep seemed only a ote ott Met Hee Met et OL HAS O68 0,0 08M snatch in the dark, when she felt someone shaking her. "Why you slipping so long?" "TI am _ slipping," Nancy echoed, "because I am tired!" "It four o'clock. Bus coming. I make bed. You move!" Nancy obediently got up and walked slowly down the hallway to the living room. "Just think," Grant said, "if she were an automatic modern appliance, you could turn her off! But she'll be back tomorrow morning at seven-thirty. And the morning after that, and the morning after that." Nancy slumped down. Into the couch cushions and looked as if she wanted to cry. "T can hardly wait." (to be continued) %o o%e a% a%ec%e ste ote ate ote em Ot 00 02a oS e ne oFe 016 06 0. POET Dorothy J. Roberts He was made to lark the fields of night, Song out of silence in the birth of light. Hear him singing in the dark alone; He was made for longing deeper than the bone; Made for enduring in the root That we might, hungering, partake of fruit. He was made for shadow and weight of snow; He was made for darkness where lush things grow. I 50 He was made for midnight and for pain, The somber silence and the spoken rain. —_—, aaa ——_ FROM THE All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents. Or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department. Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City. Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Relief Society Activities os ae # Twin Falls Stake (Idaho) Cookie Village Attraction at Bazaar December 1966 Left to right: Twin Falls Stake Relief Society Officers: Donnie Miller, First Counselor: Marcella Heider, President; Eloise Olsen, Second Counselor. Sister Heider reports: "A cookie village made by Eloise Olsen was the attraction of the annual Christmas Fair in the Twin Falls Stake. This fair was attended by approximately 500 people who were delighted with the Christmas ideas, handicraft, sewing suggestions etc. "The cookie village consisted of a rock candy schoolhouse, a gingerbread house, and two other houses made from a variety of cookies. Christmas scenes placed inside the houses consisted of Mr. And Mrs. Santa Claus, stockings placed at the fireplaces, and even a kitten on the rug. Outside, Christmas lights on the houses delighted the children as they saw Santa going down the chimney of one of the houses. Elevated above the village was a cookie church with an ice cream cone steeple. "Members and nonmembers alike look forward to this event each
