[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 36 | Special Feature | Birth Defects The Great Destroyer George | P. Voss]
birth defects. With one great victory—the conquest of polio—achieved, the uniquely successful March of Dimes partnership of scientists and laymen is now moving forward against an even greater destroyer of health and life through an intensive assault on those killing and crippling birth defects whose conquest had been for centuries regarded as hopeless. But there is hope. Modern medicine can correct many defects. Research may one day lead to the preventives that will make correction unnecessary. Contributions to the March of Dimes support treatment and research. Children with birth defects can be helped, and the March of Dimes is helping them. The extent of that help is determined by the generosity of an informed public. SILVER RHYTHM Ilva Lou Nebeker A moving picture on the lake, Where waters winter-bound Have made a polished looking-glass Of beauty lost and found. The skaters glide with rhythmic ease, Their arms, like wings, are free, And links of silver laughter weave A mesh of buoyancy. Then like flamingoes flying low They skim across the screen, And distance paints a miniature With silent ice between. 36 DAD: SUZ2Y: DAD: SUZY: DAD: SUZY: DAD: SUZY: DAD: SUZY: (Suzanne is seven years old) Did you ever stop to think Suzy, that you and I never seem to have an argument? I think it must be because you understand me better than the others do. If there weren't any arguments there wouldn't be any help for some of people's troubles. Sometimes it is good to have an argument. That's a pretty deep thought, sweetheart, and I agree with you. The main thing is people should love each other. Well, honey, you can be sure I love you. I love you with all my heart. You shouldn't just love one person. You should love everyone in the family. You should love thousands of people. Love is the most important thing there is. I guess if everyone believed that—and I wish they did—there wouldn't be any divorces or riots or wars. This world would be happier. I wish you stayed home more, Dad. Well, honey, you know I have to work hard to support the family, so we can have this nice house, cars, and clothes and everything. I want you children to have things better than I did when I was a boy. But, Dad, you shouldn't work on Saturdays and Sundays. You should spend more time with the family like Mr. Caine does with his. Life isn't just for working. Life is to live and to enjoy.