[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 64 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Message Courage and Love Alice | Colton Smith]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE—Truths To Live By Message 7—Courage and Love Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 Objective: To be a loving friend or a good neighbor may require courage. Have you ever wronged someone with gossip, angry words, or false accusations? When you met her next how did you feel? Was it easy to be friendly? Did you tend to avoid her? Have you ever had a friend who fell into disfavor, committed a crime, or made mistakes which made him despised, disliked, or scorned by others? Have you known someone who was highly esteemed one day, and without money, power, position, or influence the next? Did you immediately or eventually react differently to him? To admit a wrong, to endure rejection, disappointment, misunderstanding, to risk safety, security, reputation, well-being, for an unpopular but righteous cause, or for the love of a friend requires courage. "There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear." (I John 4:18.) Dr. Jones was a_- brilliant woman, contributing much understanding to the world. She was busy and immersed in her work. She rejected her neighbor, Sister Link, who was not of her faith, and she barely spoke to 64 her. Repeated attempts by Sister Link to be a friend had been rebuffed. One day, seeing Dr. Jones out in her garden, Sister Link had the courage to try again. She went over and said, "I wish I could grow such beautiful flowers. Do you have a moment to tell me how you do it?" Dr. Jones' garden was her avocation. Within the hour she had given both advice and flowers to Sister Link. Now Dr. Jones goes over often to inquire about how "our" plants are doing. During a recent illness of Sister Link's husband, she even brought food to the family. Another woman, a Mrs. Schmidt, no longer spoke to her next-door neighbors. The neighbor's children broke her windows, threw trash in her yard, lined bottles up against her home and woke her up in the night by breaking them with stones. Mrs. Schmidt grew afraid of them and avoided them. Her daughter-in-law came to live with her for the summer. She said, "Mother, they can't be all bad. Maybe they behave so because they are ostracized by all the neighbors." One day, the daughter-in-law took them some newly baked bread. The children were amazed and delighted. Repeated kindnesses began to have an effect. The daughter-in-law invited them over to play with her children. She heard the neighbor's children using foul language. Going into the yard, she explained firmly that such language should not be used. The offending children never spoke such words again in her y D) Lesson Department hearing. Through her courageous love, the children responded with respect and love. It takes courage to find ways to love when one is rebuffed and rejected. To lead out while others wait is not easy. Serving God and one's fellow men without the approval of friends and neighbors requires conviction and fearlessness. As we grow in love we realize that "perfect love casteth out fear." (I John 4:18).