[Vol33 | December 1946 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Literature | Title: Prelude to Christmas]

Prelude to Christmas

Despair had closed Mary's throat. She just couldn't make her vocal cords explain to Bill that that was her Christmas money, that he just couldn't have all of it! Mary had looked at the calendar. She had been crossing off the days until Christmas. There were just six left!

That night, Mary couldn't face Granny the way she felt. Automatically she had brushed her teeth, jerked open the window, and crept shivering between the sheets. "Our Father..." Hours later she had awakened shaking, had sat up in bed and felt the chill of December through her flannel pajamas. She had shaken her brown curls. No—it hadn't been a dream. Bill really had borrowed her Christmas money...!

Each afternoon after that, Mary had walked downtown after school to make certain the shawl for Granny hadn't been sold. Once she had almost asked the clerk to put the shawl away for her, but had decided there wasn't any use. She wouldn't be able to earn two dollars before Christmas.

Now it was Christmas Eve. Bill had never mentioned the money. Mary wished for the thousandth time that she had told Bill it was Christmas money and had just not let him have it! She found herself almost wishing Bill hadn't even come home for Christmas, just stayed at the school. She could have sent him a present then. Now who would give Granny a present? Mary knew Bill didn't have anything, because he always showed her his present for Granny. Poor old Granny—she dotes on Christmas so much, thought Mary. If her stocking were empty on Christmas morning... Mary couldn't bear the thought. She hid behind the curtain so Granny wouldn't see, as she dried her moist eyes.

Tiny snowflakes, like down feathers, fluttered to the ground, each flake intent on building a fresh white path for Santa's sleigh before the eventide. Suddenly, Mary noticed Reah and Carma coming up the walk. They were each carrying gifts wrapped in tissue. Mary turned from the window quickly.

"Granny, Carma and Reah are coming. Please tell them I'm not home. Please, Granny." Mary started to run up the stairs.

"Wait, child. You wouldn't make your old Granny tell a lie would you?"

"All right, Granny, but I wish I really wasn't home. I... I wish I were dead!"

"There, there, child. Go to the door, and greet your friends with a cheery Christmas wish." Then she thought: When these girls are gone I'll have a talk with Mary. She's evaded me long enough. That child's in some sort of trouble, and I mean to get to the bottom of it.

Mary opened the door as the girls knocked.

"Hello, Granny Crockett, and Mary," Carma bubbled, "we brought over a little gift to put under your tree."

"Why! Why, we haven't decorated our tree yet," Mary stammered.

"Well, we'll just put them here on the table then, for now," Reah smiled. The cutting cold had stung her ears to redness.

"I... I haven't wrapped your presents yet, kids. We're late this year." Mary wore an expression of bewilderment.

"Mary, the whole gang is going caroling tonight. They're going to meet at my place about nine o'clock. Please come, your alto is so good," Carma invited.

"I'm afraid I can't go. You see... Granny isn't feeling well." Mary stopped short. Granny had said never to lie, and she seemed to be telling one right after another. Mary felt ill at ease and sighed with relief when her friends finally left.

Mary turned to Granny. She could see that she would have to make an explanation of some kind for her actions. She would tell just one more lie. Granny must never know about Bill's having taken the money.

Just then the back door opened. It was Bill, for he always entered like a gust of wind. He had Sue Rankin with him.

"Hello, Mary and Gran. I'm home." Bill favored them with a grade "A" grin. "Say, Granny, I want to let you in on a secret. Sue's promised to wait for me 'till I get my shingle up. And she even wants to wear my frat pin 'stead of a sparkler. Imagine that! I brought her over to help decorate this tree. It's the prettiest one in town." Bill displayed a well-shaped evergreen, its branches shimmering with fresh snowflakes beneath the kitchen light.

"Why, hello, Sue," Granny welcomed Bill's friend warmly.

Bill pulled out his purse. It was bulging. He started to say something, but Granny, with a wide-eyed glance at the sight of so much money, stopped him.

"Where on earth did you get that money this time of year, young man?" Granny spoke firmly. It was her job to check up on such things, and she intended to do it even in front of Sue, if necessary.

"Why, Granny, I've worked all week at Tyler's, delivering orders," Bill stated proudly. Then, turning to Mary, "Here's five dollars, Mary. A dollar and two cents interest. I'd have paid you back sooner, but they just this minute paid me off."

"But Bill... five dollars!" Mary started to protest.

"That's okay, Sis. Banks charge more interest when they don't require security."

A hard, painful little kernel in the center of Mary's being seemed to be melting out of existence.

At sight of her, Bill's heart was swelled to bursting. He caught Mary in his arms and held her hard. "I thought you knew I'd pay in time for Christmas. Look at the clock. There are still two more hours before the stores close."

Mary's face was shining as she looked up.

"Granny, may I go down town?" Then in a whisper for Granny's ears alone, "I'm going to buy some mistletoe for Sue and Bill."

She hurried for her wraps. "Granny, I'll go caroling with the gang before I come home."

Granny left Sue and Bill to decorate the tree. From the kitchen window she watched Mary as she hurried up Oak Street toward the brilliant lights of the city. Granny was wise as two, maybe three, owls, for she knew that since the Wise Men had presented their gifts to the Infant in the manger that first Christmas, many, many years ago, the making and buying of presents was the prelude to Christmas.