[Vol33 | December 1946 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Theology The Welfare Driggs]
4. Those who are called to direct the program, whether in general capacities, regional, stake or ward.
FUNCTIONS: In order to reach the objectives of the Welfare Plan with any degree of completeness, there must be a clear conception of the necessary functions of the Welfare organization.
These basic functions are:
1. To determine the needs of the people.
2. To gather needed control commodities and commodity contributions.
3. To render needed assistance and to provide employment through work projects.
4. To manage the storage and distribution of commodities.
5. To meet the physical needs of ward members requiring assistance.
6. To promote Welfare work in Melchizedek and Aaronic Priesthood units.
7. To guide agricultural and other rehabilitation.
8. To provide hospitalization for Church cases. (L. D. S. Church Welfare Handbook of Instructions, pp. 7-10.)
Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion
With the help of the suggested readings given below, have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the Doctrine and Covenants to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word," which has been written for our life in this day.
There are but a few active Church members today who have not, in part at least, learned the workings of the Church Welfare plan either through adolescent lessons, Melchizedek Priesthood quorum instruction on Latter-day Saint Church Welfare, or have had complete or outlining the operation of this plan. A copy of this pamphlet should be at hand during the class discussion of this lesson. For the best discussion of the period let us center upon the spiritual outcomes of this plan as these may be discussed from the questions and readings that follow.
1. Who may fall under the condemnation of the Lord given in the passage? Read Doc. and Cov. 56:16-20.
2. On April 23, 1832, in Independence, Missouri, the Prophet was given a revelation as he sat in council with his brethren. Read what the Lord said on that occasion. (Doc. and Cov. 83:1. What significance has this new interpretation to the old one of "love thy neighbor" as given in this revelation?
3. The Lord would have his people seek the welfare of eternity. This, he said, could not be done with eyes full of greediness. (Doc. and Cov. 68:25-32). Why not? What were his commands concerning the sharing of one's properties? (Read Doc. and Cov. 42:30-31; 104:11-18.)
References
