[Vol33 | December 1946 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Our Wives and Our Mothers in the Eternal Plan]
Our Wives and Our Mothers in the Eternal Plan
President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.

[Delivered at the general session of the general Relief Society conference held in the Tabernacle, Thursday afternoon, October 3, 1946.]

As I look out over this great audience, Sister Spafford, I wonder where you are going to put the Priesthood tomorrow. I am greatly honored in being asked to address you again. It seems to me only last conference that this honor was accorded me before. I would like to endorse all that our good sisters have said here today, and to congratulate Sister Spafford on the far vision which she has of the work of your great organization, the greatest organization of its kind in the world. I pray that the blessings of the Lord may be with the Relief Society, for you do a service which no other organization in the Church can do.

My subject today is a request subject. Some months ago, before a stake conference, I gave a little talk which some of your officers heard, and thought that you might be interested if I repeated it, elaborating it somewhat. I apologize for reading it but I had so much to say that I wanted to say reasonably carefully, that I thought my only safety would be in writing it out, and therefore, I shall read it to you.

To find the place of our wives and mothers in the eternal plan, we must trace out the creation and peopling of this earth from "the beginning," yet remembering the Lord has said that "unto myself my works have no end, neither beginning" (Doc. And Cov. 29:33; and see Doc. And Cov. 39:1; 20:26; 61:1; 76:4; 88; 6:13; 93:8-10; Moses 1:3; Ps. 90:2; 102:27) and remembering also that as to this earth John declared: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God," (John 1:1-2) and remembering further that, in our day, the Lord has made clear that for this earth "Man was also in the beginning with God" (Doc. And Cov. 93:29).

I shall trace out the account of the creation according to my understanding of the sequence of the scriptures.

The Lord has declared to us in our day that he "looked upon the wide expanse of eternity, and all the seraphic hosts of heaven, before the world was made" (Doc. And Cov. 38:1). He told Abraham, having first shown him "the intelligences that were organized before the world was": "I came down in the beginning in the midst of all the intelligences thou hast seen" and "organized" them (Abraham 3:21-22).

Thereafter, God held, in the due course of our mundane creation as recorded in scriptural sequence, a Great Council in Heaven, in which it seems all of us may have participated, and he told Abraham that he, God, then stood in the midst of these intelligences, and "among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; And God saw these souls that they were good... And he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits... And he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born" (Abraham 3:22-23).

In the Great Council, so convened, two plans were presented for creating and peopling an earth. The one by Satan proposed to destroy the agency of man and to redeem all mankind that not one soul be lost. Men were to be mere automatons (Moses 4:1-4). This plan was rejected because all growth and progress come by work and overcoming obstacles.

The other plan, proposed by the Only Begotten, left man his free agency, that he might become strong and advance in learning, knowledge, wisdom, and righteousness by conquering error. As part of his plan the Only Begotten proposed: "We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell" (Abraham 3:24).

This plan was accepted. "And then," says the record, "the Lord said: Let us go down. And they went down at the beginning, and they, that is the Gods, organized and formed the heavens and the earth" (Abraham 4:1).

The scriptures hold one language, that the Only Begotten Son was the actual workman who built the world, as well as all that exists upon it, plant, animal, and man. John, in his great hymn opening his Gospel, from which I have already quoted, sang:

"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was life; and the life was the light of men... And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth" (John 1:1-4, 14).

Moreover, in a mighty vision, Moses, by the Spirit of God: "Beheld the earth, yea even all of it; and there was not a particle of it which he did not behold,.... And he beheld also the inhabitants thereof, and there was not a soul which he beheld not; and he discerned them by the Spirit of God; and their numbers were great, even numberless as the sand upon the sea shore.... And the Lord God said unto Moses: For mine own purpose have I made these things. Here is wisdom and it remaineth in me. And by the word of my power, have I created them, which is mine Only Begotten Son, who is full of grace and truth" (Moses 1:27-28, 31-32).

We might observe, furthermore, that God has other worlds in the universe. He declared to Moses: "And worlds without number have I created; and I also created them for mine own purpose; and by the Son I created them, which is mine Only Begotten.... For behold, there are many worlds that have passed away by the word of my power. And there are many that now stand, and innumerable are they unto man; but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I know them" (Moses 1:33, 35; 7:30, 36).

After the Lord described the creation of the earth in the six "days" mentioned in Genesis and in the Book of Moses, or in the six "times" mentioned in the Book of Abraham, he made to Moses the following declaration, paralleled in his words to Abraham:

"For I, the Lord God, created all things, of which I have spoken, spiritually, before they were naturally upon the face of the earth. For I, the Lord God, had not caused it to rain upon the face of the earth. And I, the Lord God, had created all the children of men; and not yet a man to till the ground; for in heaven created I them; and there was not yet flesh upon the earth, neither in the water, neither in the air;

"But I, the Lord God, spake, and there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground. And I, the Lord God, formed man from the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul, the first flesh upon the earth, the first man also; nevertheless, all things were before created; but spiritually were they created and made according to my word" (Moses 3:5-7).

Abraham records the creation of man in these words: "And the Gods formed man from the dust of the ground, and took his spirit (that is, the man's spirit), and put it into him; and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul" (Abraham 5:7).

Thus, as to this earth, there were two creations, first the spiritual (Gen. 1; 2:5; Moses 2; 3:5; 6:51; Abraham 4; 5:5), and then the temporal (Gen. 2:1-25; Moses 3:6-24; Abraham 5:6-18; Doc. And Cov. 29:31), as we name them, though we should remember that, in our day, the Lord has told us, speaking of things "temporal" and things "spiritual," and contrasting them, "all things unto me are spiritual." (Doc. And Cov. 29:34.)

According to the sequence of the scriptural record, the Lord, after making man "from the dust of the ground," planted a Garden, "eastward in Eden"; then made plant life to grow "out of the ground," with "living souls." In Eden, God planted also the two fateful trees—the tree of life and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, concerning which God gave specific commandments to Adam. He caused a river to flow "out of Eden to water the garden." (Moses 3:8-14; Abraham 5:7 ff.; Gen. 2:8 ff.)

The Lord then recorded: "And I, the Lord God, took the man, and put him into the Garden of Eden, to dress it, and to keep it" (Moses 3:15; and see Abraham 5:11; Gen. 2:15).

Following this in the scriptural sequence, the record reads: "And out of the ground I, the Lord God, formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air; and commanded that they should come unto Adam, to see what he would call them; and they were also living souls; for I, God, breathed into them the breath of life, and commanded that whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that should be the name thereof.... But as for Adam, there was not found an help meet for him" (Moses 3:19-20; and see Abraham 5:20; Gen. 2:19).

Thus Adam had some part in this temporal creation, just what part is not definitely set out in the scriptural record, except that he did give the animals their names. By this we might possibly understand that at least he took a sort of census, checked over the creations, perhaps making sure that each of the great animal families was represented by types that were capable of being the progenitors from which might spring and develop the various types and sub-types and species now extant, in the same way and by the same natural processes that the different races and peoples of today's earth stem back to a common progenitor pair—Adam and Eve.

Thus, on the scriptural record, Adam's service may have determined when the creation was complete. But that point is not important in our discussion today.

What were the processes of creation? How was it done?

Paul declared to the Hebrews that "Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God" (Hebrews 11:3)—faith which is declared to be the gift of God (Rom. 10:17; I Cor. 12:9). Now Paul defined faith as "the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen" (Heb. 11:1).

Orson Pratt said: "And as faith is the moving cause of all action in temporal concerns, so it is in spiritual.... By this we understand that the principle of power which existed in the bosom of God, by which the worlds were framed, was faith.... Had it not been for the principle of faith the worlds would never have been framed, neither would man have been formed of the dust" (Lectures on Faith, Sec. 1:12, 15-16).

Through what instrumentality was this faith employed? We have already given the scriptures declaring that the Only Begotten did the work, with help from others acting under the authority and command of the Father (Abraham 4).

What was this authority? Brigham Young said: "If anybody wants to know what the Priesthood of the Son of God is, it is the law by which the worlds are, were, and will continue for ever and ever. It is that system which brings worlds into existence and peoples them, gives them their revolutions—their days, weeks, months, years, their seasons and times and by which they are rolled up as a scroll, as it were, and go into a higher state of existence" (Discourses, page 201; 1941 edition, page 130).

The Prophet Joseph has told us: "The Priesthood is an everlasting principle, and existed with God from eternity, and will to eternity, without beginning of days or end of years; that Christ is the Great High Priest; Adam next and that Adam obtained his priesthood in the Creation, before the world was formed" (Smith's Teachings, pp. 157-158).

Up to this point in the eternal course of world progression, as recorded in the scriptures, the Priesthood had performed the full service rendered, all had been done in the spiritual and temporal creations by the Great High Priest, with Adam, who stands "next," and others assisting (See Abraham 4).
