[Vol33 | December 1946 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Lyman]

Deseret News, "Church Section," April 6, 1946; April 20, 1946. Visiting Teachers' Messages Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 6?Self-Reliance President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, March 4, 1947
Objective: 'To show that the pioneers were resourceful, creative, and self-reliant. NE of the distinctive differences between the first settlers of Utah and other early settlers in Western America was that the Latter-day Saint colonizers came from a larger number of different localities than did those of any other group. There were among them representatives from practically every state in the Union, from Canada, and from several European countries. 'Then, too, among the Latter-day Saints there were farmers, tradesmen, factory workers, teachers, physicians, clerks, etc. This variation in background, training, and experience was a great advantage to these colonists as individuals as it was also to the communities as a whole. It resulted in greater vision, a broader viewpoint, and added to their efficiency in planning and in carrying out their plans successfully. It has often been said that necessity is the mother of invention. It might be added that necessity is also the mother of resourcefulness. And it is resourcefulness which enables people to manage well. It helps them to accomplish things. It begets self-reliance. In resourcefulness, creative ability, and_ self-reliance, the pioneers of Utah were masters of the highest order. With wisdom and foresight, Brigham Young had advised those who were planning to emigrate to Utah to bring with them choice seeds, good tools of every description, machinery not only for farming but also for spinning and weaving. All these things stood them in good stead in their efforts at community building. During the first year in Utah, there was great activity in plowing, planting, and in irrigating. The pioneers soon learned that in this desert land irrigation was a necessity. Gristmills and sawmills were soon built. A tannery for making leather for shoes and harnesses had to be constructed. Other industries were gradually established, and fortunately those were found who, because of past experience in mills, shops, factories, and mercantile establishments, were able to carry on the work required. Upon their arrival in the Valley. The pioneers lived in their wagons until they were able to cut and saw and haul logs from the canyons for the building of cabins. Later, for home building, they used adobe or bricks made of clay and dried in the sun. Cobblestones in clay and soft rocks were also used. Old-fashioned fireplaces were installed for heating and cooking. The fuel used was sage and oak brush. A few pieces 
  DECEMBER 1946 , LESSON DEPARTMENT of furniture were brought across the plains, but most of the furniture was made by the pioneers out of native wood. It consisted, in the main, of tables, cupboards, bureaus, beds, and chairs with willow seats. Dirt floors were the rule in the beginning. Later, floors made from logs flattened on one side, and not always too smooth, were used; and, finally, braided rugs and homemade carpets were added.
The attribute of self-reliance is inherent in the gospel of the Master. One should employ all his own inventiveness and exert himself to the utmost before expecting the Lord or anyone else to come to his aid. It would be well for members of the Church in this day to emulate the example of the pioneers in developing and strengthening, in themselves, the power to be found in self-reliance.