[Vol33 | December 1946 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Editorial | Title: A Tie That Garff]
HEARKEN  TO  COUNSEL  807 
ters,  through  the  Rehef  Society  and  anything  which  is  a  greater  evil  than 
other  organizations,  the  evils  of  this  the  public   dance,    where,   promis- 
thing    which    the    Lord    has    con-  cuously,  people  gather,  no  questions 
demned  through  his  servants,    the  asked  as  long  as  they  pay  their  price, 
prophets.  and  out  of  it  comes  sin. 
The  Savior  said  to  his  disciples  Again,  may  I,  dare  I,  speak  about 
one  time  when  he  got  very  much  an-  it,  even  to  you  mothers,  of  modern 
noyed:     ''Why  call  ye    me,    Lord,  dress.    It  is  not  what  the  Lord  has 
Lord,  and  do  not  the  things  which  indicated  he  would  have.    He  gave 
I  say?"  (Luke  6:46).  to  the  Church  a  law  which  you  can 
We  raise  our  hands  and  say  we  find  recorded  in  section  42  of  the 
will   support  the  President  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  in  which 
Church  and  the  Authorities  of  the  he  says,  "Let  all  thy  garments  be 
Church.    Are  we  doing  it?     I  am  plain,  and  their  beauty  the  beauty 
speaking  not  of  you  sisters  here,  but  of  the  work  of  thine  own  hands," 
I  am  speaking,  when  I  say  that,  of  but  they  are  not.    I  am  speaking  of 
the  members  of  the  Church.  the  women's  dress.    I  do  not  think 
Now    I    say,    these    are  perilous  they  dress    modestly.    This    comes 
times.    The  Devil    is    raging,    and  from  the  world  and  we  partake  very 
there  are  more  temptations,  more  largely  of  these  fashions.    I  suppose 
avenues  for  sinning  today,  among  perhaps  the  women  think  they  are 
our  people,  than  ever  before  in  the  pleasing  the  men.  From  my  under- 
history  of  the  Church.  standing,  and  considering' the  men 
Every  good  thing  that  comes  for  I  associate  with,  they  are  not  pleased, 
the  benefit  of  man,  the  Devil  takes  not  at  all.    Men  in  the  world  may 
possession  of:  the  radio,  for  instance,  be,  I  do  not  know,  but  not  men  in 
What  a  wonderful  instrument  it  is,  the  Church,  Latter-day  Saints.  And 
what  a  means  to  educate  the  people,  why  do  we  have  to  follow  the  cus- 
and  yet  ninety  per  cent  of  the  pro-  toms  and  the  fashions  of  the  world? 
grams    that   come    over    the   radio 
should  not  be  heard  at  all.  You  can  MOW,  there  are  so  many  other 
hardly  ever  turn  one  on  without  things  that  are  evil  I  cannot  take 
hearing  a  tobacco  ad,  a  very  alluring  time  to  mention  them,  that  are 
one,  or  something  else  of  an  evil  na-  placed  before  our  people  today,  both 
ture.  In  the  programs,  many  of  old  and  young,  and  I  want  to  tell 
them,  that  are  given  for  entertain-  you  sisters,  many  among  us  cannot 
ment,  things  are  presented  that  are,  help,  when  we  see  things  constantly, 
well,  shady;  the  jokes,  and  all  these  from  being  influenced.  All  the 
things  are  listened  to  by  our  young  time  we  have  portrayed  before  us  the 
people.  How  can  they  grow  up  in  advertisements  of  tobacco  and  liq- 
the  knowledge  of  the  truth,  in  the  uor,  and  all  kinds  of  ads  in  the  mag- 
love  of  the  truth,  with  such  things  azines,  that  are  unwholesome.  In 
before  them?  some  magazines  that  many  among 
Another  thing  we  ought  to  keep  us  like  to  buy,  there  are  pictures  of 
our  children  from,  and  you  as  moth-  scantily   dressed   women.    Can   we 
ers  should  use  your  influence,  is  the  expect  our  young  people  to  grow 
public  dance.     I  do  not  know  of  up  very  much  with  the  spirit  of  the

808         *  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER  1946 
gospel  in  them  under  such  condi-  time  and  time  again,  he  would  rath- 
tions?  I  wonder  if  we,  ourselves,  are  er  take  his  children  to  the  grave  and 
not  more  or  less  affected  by  it,  see-  lay  them  away,  knowing  that  they 
ing  and  hearing  these  things  con-  were  in  their  purity  and  entitled  to 
stantly.  come  up  in  the  resurrection  to  re- 
Now,  tlie  papers  are  telling  us  all  ceive  the  blessings  of  exaltation  in 
the  time  that  the  condition  through-  the  Kingdom  of  God,  than  to  have 
out  this  nation  is  terrible  in  regard  them  marry  out  of  the  Church  or 
to  divorce.  We  find  it  right  here  out  of  the  Temple  if  that  would  de- 
among  our  own  people.  There  was  prive  them  of  these  blessings,  which 
a  time  when  divorce  was  much  less  it  would,  unless  they  should  repent, 
within  the  Church  than  it  is  today,  And  yet  a  lot  of  our  people  are  teach- 
but  in  recent  years  it  has  been  in-  ing  their  sons  and  their  daughters 
creasing.  Why?  All  of  these  mod-  that  it  does  not  matter, 
em  sins  tend  to  it,  everything  to  It  comes  to  my  attention  that 
weaken  and  destroy  the  influence  of  mothers  are  telling  their  daughters 
the  home.  People  are  losing  the  not  to  go  to  the  Temple.  When  they 
love  for  the  home,  for  the  family,  get  old  then  they  can  go  to  the  Tem- 
today,  and  that  brings  upon  us  these  pie,  but  they  do  not  want  to  go  to 
divorce  difficulties.  And  so  many  the  Temple  until  they  get  old,  until 
of  our  young  people  are  not  looking  their  "charms,"  whatever  that 
upon  marriage  as  the  Lord  would  means,  have  disappeared.  Maybe 
have  them  look  upon  it.  They  do  you  know  what  that  means.  I  do 
not  realize  what  it  means.  They  are  not  think  a  woman's  charms  should 
willing  to  be  married  outside  of  the  ever  disappear.  I  do  not  think  age 
Temple.  Why?  Because  their  should  make  the  difference.  And  so 
mothers,  particularly  so  their  moth-  I  would  like  to  read  to  you  just  one 
ers,  have  failed  to  teach  them  the  paragraph  that  I  wrote  a  long  time 
proper  kind  of  marriage.  Fathers  ago,  and  that  is  all  I  will  have  time 
have  failed  also,  but  the  mothers  to  do: 
are  with  the  children  more  of  the 
time  in  the  home.  And  young  peo-  Nothing  is  more  pitiful  than  to  see  a 
pie  born  under  the  covenant  are  be-  broken,  dismembered  family  where  bus- 
ing married  outside  of  the  Church,  ^^"^  ^"^  '^^^^  ^^^^  separated  and  chil- 
/^T-  rN,,f-o,-^^  ^£  i-i,^  T-  1  J  £i.  dren  know  not  what  to  do.  Sad  are  the 
or  outside  ot  the  lemple,  and  oft-  4.  u-  ^  *.  u^  cc-  •  -i  •  ^x. 
.                        .             '^    i'  v^7  °   *^  ^^'-  stones  which  come  to  the  officials  m  the 
times  we  see  in  the  papers  their  pic-  Temples   and  difficult  are  the  problems 
tures,  and  the  parents  seem   to  be  which  they  are  asked  to  unravel.  Parents, 
elated  over  it,  and  so  they  put  the  ^^ink  of  your  children.     Do  not  let  petty 
pictures  in  the  papers  and  advertise  ^'°"^^^''  ^"^^"^  difficulties  and  misunder- 
tv      £     .    .1     .    -1     ^         .  .     .     ,  standings  come   between   you.     Children 
the  fact  that  the  marriage  is  to  be  ^,^,,^  ^  ^^^^^  to  the  blessings  of  the  sacred- 
outside  the  Temple.  I  should  thing  union,  love  and  happiness  which  belong 
they  would  be  ashamed.  to   the  family.     They    have    an    eternal 
May  I  tell  you  this?     In  the  early  ^^^^^  "P°"  ^^^^^^  parents,  and  when  these 
davs  of  mv  life    nrra^'nrmll     m     fa  parents,  through   some  foolishness,  some 
Lu  iJT-ij  •  -ii-  whim   or  needless    anger,    permit    them- 
ther  would  hold  a  meeting  with  his  selves  to  be   separated,   the  children  are 
family,  and  he  would  talk  to  us.  And  the  great  sufferers.     What  will  the  Lord 
he  has   told  us   in   those  meetings,  (Continued  on  page  843)

The  Place  of  Relief  Society  in  the 
Welfare  Plan 
Elder  Harold  B.  Lee 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
[Delivered  at  the  officers'  meeting  of  the  general  Relief  Society  conference,  held  in 
the  Assembly  Hall,  Thursday  morning,  October  3,  1946.] 
IT  
is  not  likely  that  I  shall  say 
anything  new  to  you  on  this  sub- 
ject of  the  Relief  Society  in  the 
Church  Welfare  Program,  and  I 
shall  only  attempt  this  morning  to 
lay  down  a  few  general,  broad  prin- 
ciples that  might  aid  you  as  Relief 
Society  leaders  to  more  clearly  see 
your  place  and  to  fill  it,  in  the  ac- 
complishment of  that  which  we 
have  been  assigned  to  do  under 
what  has  been  popularly,  or  other- 
wise, known  as  the  Church  Welfare 
Plan. 
I  should  first  like  to  discuss  the 
relationship  that  the  Relief  Society 
organization  has  to  the  Priesthood. 
The  Apostle  Paul  said  to  the  Corin- 
thians : 
Nevertheless  neither  is  the  man  with- 
out the  woman,  neither  the  woman  with- 
out the  man,  in  the  Lord  (I  Cor.  11:11). 
Now,  while  that  had  reference  to 
marriage,  I  would  like  to  paraphrase 
that  to  give  strength  to  this  point: 
Neither  the  brethren  of  the  Priest- 
hood can  succeed  in  the  Welfare 
Program  without  the  sisters  of  the 
Relief  Society,  nor  can  the  Relief 
Society  succeed  without  the  breth- 
ren of  the  Priesthood. 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who 
has  analyzed  for  us  this  relationship, 
has  made  two  very  significant  ex- 
pressions on  this  subject  at  various 
times,  and  I  read  those  statements: 
I  have  in  mind  our  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions; What  are  they?  Helps  to  the  stand- 
ard organizations  of  the  Church.  They 
are  not  independent.  I  want  to  say  to 
the  Young  Men's  and  Young  Ladies'  Mu- 
tual Improvement  Associations,  and  to 
the  Relief  Society,  and  to  the  Primaries, 
and  to  the  Sunday  Schools  .  .  .  and  all 
the  rest  of  the  organizations  in  the  Church, 
that  not  one  of  them  is  independent  of 
the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God.  Not 
any  of  them  can  exist  a  moment  in  the 
acceptance  of  the  Lord  when  they  with- 
draw from  the  voice  and  from  the  counsel 
of  those  who  hold  the  Priesthood  and 
preside  over  them.  They  are  subject  to 
the  powers  and  authority  of  the  Church, 
and  they  are  not  independent  of  them; 
nor  can  they  exercise  any  rights  in  their 
organizations  independently  of  the  Priest- 
hood and  of  the  Church  (President  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  Gospel  Doctrine,  page  479). 
And  then  he  said  this: 
W^'e  expect  to  see  the  day,  if  we  live 
long  enough,  and  if  some  of  us  do  not 
live  long  enough  to  see  it,  there  are  oth- 
ers who  will,  when  every  council  of  the 
Priesthood  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  will  understand  its 
dut}' — will  assume  its  own  responsibility, 
will  magnify  its  calling  and  fill  its  place 
in  the  Church  to  the  utmost,  according  to 
the  intelligence  and  ability  possessed  by  it. 
When  that  day  shall  come,  there  will  not 
be  so  much  necessity  for  work  that  is  now 
being  done  by  the  auxiliary  organizations 
because  it  will  be  done  by  the  regular 
quorums  of  the  priesthood  (GospeJ  Doc- 
trine, p.  199,  3rd  Ed;  April  C-R  1906, 
page  3). 
How  much  time  will  pass  before 
that  will  take  place  none  of  us 
know,  but  until  that  time  comes,  we 
Page  809