[Vol33 | December 1946 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: The Place of Relief Society in the Welfare Plan]

The Place of Relief Society in the Welfare Plan
(Continued from page 817)

When he became thirsty from that terrible agony, he asked for a drink and they dipped the sponge in vinegar and thrust it to his lips. They mocked him, they spit upon him, they taunted him. Can you imagine more human suffering than the Master suffered, but he was not thinking of himself in those last hours, for down near the foot of the cross there huddled a little figure, her shawl pulled tightly about her face. Few friends had gathered around, and only one of the disciples, apparently. The Master had been looking down upon that little woman, and I fancy he had reached into her very soul with understanding. If her Son, this one upon the cross, should pass, who was going to care for her; who was going to take care of her and shepherd her against the pitfalls of one as lonely as she would then feel? The Master apparently thought about that, for he said, in one of the closing thoughts of his life: "Woman," as he nodded to her, "behold thy son," meaning John who stood near; and to John he said: "John, behold thy mother." And John knew what he meant, and straightway after the death of Jesus took the mother into his home and cared for her tenderly.

If you would give true sympathy, then, let yours be the understanding that looks through the eyes of the sufferers and tries to see their problem from their standpoint. That is the only genuine sympathy that I know, and the only kind that should characterize the work of the Relief Society.

I was up at the L.D.S. Hospital some years ago. One of my dearest friends, a man who had grown old in the service, and a grand old patriarch, was lying there with just a few hours to live. Most of the bodily processes that sustained life had ceased to function. His wife was lying down in the southeast part of the city, paralyzed and helpless. Oh, how he would have liked in that moment to have seen his dear companion, but he knew that was impossible because he had had to lift her about, she could not walk, and every move would bring pain to her wracked body. But this little woman down there in her home thought differently. She, too, had that desire, and so she had her children put her in a wheel chair. They put the wheel chair in the back of a truck and they came up to the L.D.S. Hospital and wheeled her up just outside the door where the father was dying.

The daughter slipped in and said: "Daddy, would you like to see Mother?"

"Oh, I should say I would, but I know that is not possible. Give her my love."

"But, if we should bring Mother to you, would it shock you too much?"

He said: "No, I don't think so."

"Well, now don't let it surprise you too much, but Mother is outside the door. We will bring her in in a few moments."

And so the Mother came in. I stood watching that sacred scene. Keep in mind that he was so near death that he could not move to embrace her, and she, in her paralyzed condition, could not bend over to embrace him, nor to caress him. She just sat there and patted his hand as he reached it out toward her, and this is what she said to him: "Daddy, you and I have met a lot of problems in our life, haven't we? We know what it is to go through poverty, don't we, Daddy? We know what it is to go through sickness together, don't we? We know what it is to go through sorrow, don't we, Daddy?" And he said: "Yes, we do." "Well, now, Daddy, we know how to go through this, too, don't we?" He said: "Yes, dear." And she turned to her children and said: "That is all, I am ready to go."

Ah, the understanding of that lovely wife. She gave him the kind of comfort that helped him through the portals of death with a peace that only one with such understanding could have given.

Do you not see now, you sisters, why it is a great Program that the Lord has established. Which does not put the delicate work of contacting those in distress in the hands of a merely paid professional. Cannot you see why a mother who has reared her family, who has gone through these experiences, who lives neighbors to that mother, cannot you see why the Lord has put it upon the mothers of the Relief Society to visit these homes? Because, next to the Master himself, there are none in his Church who have a more lovely touch, a more complete understanding of the hearts and the lives of these individuals who are so precious in his sight.

May the Lord bless you, my dear sisters, to carry on the great work that you have carried on through these years. You are loved as angels of mercy, as true angels of mercy. God give you the strength, the insight, and the determination, and the loyalty.

Never let there be spoken in your hearing, without defense, criticism against the bishop, or against the Welfare Program, or against the Authorities of this Church. If there should come some from these whom you are trying to persuade kindly to co-operate with the bishop, in co-operating with the Welfare Program, where a Program has been developed for ten years to make for the security and peace of our people, when you find them in the homes, do not let yours ever be the voice that joins with them in criticism and saying, "Well, there must be some politics in this, or something else." You always say to them, if you are true to your responsibility as the sisters of the Relief Society: "My brother, my sister, if it were not for the fact that the Presidency of this Church knew that the Welfare Program was God inspired, and was for the blessing and benefit of the children of our Heavenly Father, who are members of this Church, we know that never would it have been given to us."

If you will take that attitude, I want to tell you that power and strength will come to you, and influence for good that cannot be wielded by any other organization on the face of this earth. God bless you to measure up to your high responsibility and do the things that our Father has assigned to the Relief Society in this Welfare Program, I pray humbly, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen.
