NOTES AND NEWS.
	Madame Sarah Grand is to deliver an ad-
dress of welcome at the International Suf-
rage Convention in London.
	Olive Schreiner is about to bring out a
book entitled “Closer Union for South Afri-
ca.” It deals with the political situation.
	Mrs. Fanny Friedman has just did at the
home of her daughter, Mrs. Bertha Burger,
244 East 85th street, New York City, aged
112 years and three months.
	“Miss Ethel L. Arnold says she hopes the
American public “will not be misled by the
lying newspaper reports which represent the
suffragettes as biting, kicking and scratch-
ing the London police.” Evidently some
English journals are as “yellow” as any in 
this country.”
	Over 1,000 representative women from 26
counties of New York State appeared be-
fore the judiciary committee of both Houses
of the Legislature at Albany in behalf of the
amendment striking the word “male” from
the suffrage clause of the State Constitu-
tion.
	Josiah Taft, grandson of Robert Taft, the
immigrant who settled in Uxbridge, Mass.,
in 1680, was at his death the largest tax-
payer in Uxbridge.
	The town meeting granted his widow the
right of suffrage during her son’s minority.
She exercised it creditably to her intellig-
ence.
	On one occasion, the Province of Mas-
sachusetts Bay made a special demand upon
the towns for money (possibly for some
military emergency), and it was the widow
Taft’s vote in town meeting which carried
the question,—her patriotism being shown
by her support of the measure.
		Ex.					C.A.B.
	The 41st Convention of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association will
be held in Seattle, Wash., July 1 to 7 in-
clusive.
	This marvelous city of the Pacific Coast
in twenty years has multiplied its popula-
tion twenty times, increasing from 15,000 to
300,000, a growth unparalleled in the his-
tory of cities. To those who have had the
opportunity of visiting it, howeyer, this
growth is not wonderful, considering its ad-
vantages in relation to ocean transportation,
its commercial possibilities, both local and
foreign, and over and beyond everything
else, its unrivalled scenic beauty.
	The members and friends of the conven-
tion will go to Seattle in a special train from
Chicago, with through sleepers, and upon
arrival at Spokane, the eastern boundary of
the State, we shall be met by “The Woman
Suffrage Special,” and escorted to Seattle,
stopping en route at Pasco, North Yakima
and Tacoma, each city vieing with the other
in extending courtesies and entertainments.
	On account of the Alaska Yukon Exposi-
tion, the exceedingly low rate of $62 for the
round trip has been authorized from Chica-
go, with return until Oct. 31.


