EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Thursday afternoon, February 26, the Au-
thor’s Club gave a reunion and banquet in
the spacious hall of the Lion House. This
club is one of the most popular in Utah and
the members are almost all University
graduates. On this occasion although visi-
tors are not usually admitted there were two
guests Aunt Emm. Wells and Mrs. Preston
J. Cannon, the members were nearly all
present, the hall was artistically decorated,
the club colors red and sage green being
carried out, making the room very pictur-
esque. There were twenty at table each
lady having a place card and the President
Mrs. Harriet B. Harker the hostess in a very
gracious manner gave the fullest liberty to
each one present. Mrs. Augusta W. Grant
was toast-mistress and wit and humor pre-
vailed freely. There were a few piano selec-
tions rendered and one or two songs, but so-
cial chat predominated.
	Monday, March first, some of the members
of the General Board of the Relief Society
came as a sort of surprise to the headquarters,
to spend an hour or two as a reminder of
Aunt Emm.’s birthday and the plain simple
refreshments and dainty flowers were very
much appreciated and pleasing; but the
faces of dear friends on these annual oc-
casions are always like golden milestones
along the way of the years. A miniature
bank filled with silver was presented with a
very graceful speech by Sister Carrie S.
Thomas in behalf of the Board. There are
no fitting words in which to properly
acknowledge these honors therefore one is at
the mercy of one’s friends when favors are
bestowed in such unobtrusive ways.
	The U. W. P. C. and Reapers’ Social gave
a party in honor of Aunt Em., March 12, at
the elegant new home of the President, Mrs.
J. Q. Critchlow; about forty ladies were as-
sembled and there were original poems read
and selections from Musings and Memories
(Mrs. Wells book of verses) and the lady
was presented with a handsome opera cloak;
Mrs. Maria Francis speaking eloquently for
the donors. The affair was a very happy
one and the literary numbers were very ap-
propriate also the kind words and affectionate
sentiments.
	What can one say to one’s friends for the
many blessings, benefits and favors bestowed,
only—“This is the message that ye heard
froni the beginning, that we should love one
another.” 1 John 3: 2.


