RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
BEAR RIVER STAKE.
	The first Relief Society conference of the
Bear River stake of Zion, convened at the
Garland hall, Friday, January 8th, at 10 a.
m. and 2 p. m.
	There were present Stake President Milton
H. Welling, Counselor P. M. Hansen, four
members of the High Council, two bishops,
Clarissa S. Williams and Rebecca Nibley of
the General Relief Society Board, President
Susannah P. Booth and Mary J. Harding
of the Box Elder stake Relief Society and
President Caroline E. Facer of the Malad
stake Relief Society, the Bear River stake
Presidency and members of the board.
	President Julia A. Richards presided.
After the opening exercises, reports were
given by the presidents of the ward organiza-
tions, who expressed themselves as deeply
interested in the Relief Society work.
	President Richards reported the visits of
herself aud associates to all the wards of the
Stake, which were found to be in a live, ac-
tive condition.
	President Susannah P. Booth bore her
testimony to the great good of the benevolent
cause and was thankful to be a worker in
the same.
	Instrumental solo—Miss Lera Clark.
	Vocal solo—Mrs. Mary E. Wanlass.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams had enjoyed
the reports and felt that as a new stake we
were much favored. Gave words of instruc-
tion and encouragement to the sisters.
	During the noon hour delicious refresh-
ments were served.


At the afternoon session the same presid-
ing authorities were present and there was a
large attendance of members. The roll call
showed all the wards represented.
	Sister Rebecca Nibley spoke of the neces-
sity of us sustaining prohibition and urged
that mothers and wives use their influence
in helping loved ones to abstain from intoxi-
cants, etc.
	Solo—“Daughters of Zion”—Sister Essie
Foulger.
	Sisters Caroline E. Facer and Marv J.
Harding, each made a few remarks relating
to Relief Society work.
	President Milton H. Welling spoke of his
appreciation of the Relief Society work and
gave good counsel and advice to the sisters
present.
	Sister Clarissa Williams spoke of the duty
of one toward another, Said, “It is for us to
do all we can for our Father’s children. We
should live near each other, love each other
and be kind and attentive to all even the
non-Mormons who may be in our midst.
Extended the love and blessing of President
Bathsheba Smith to the sisters of the new
Bear River stake.
	Sister Nibley then called for a vote of all
those who would sustain prohibition. The
vote was unanimous.
	President Julia A. Richards expressed her
pleasure at having had such a successful
conference and felt that we had received
much that would encourage us in our duties.
	Prayer—Sister Eva Wilcox.
				MARGARET W. MANNING,
								Secretary.


