[Column 1]
	CELEBRATION PORTLAND RELIEF
			SOCIETY.
Sixty-seventh anniversary of the organization
	of the Relief Society celebrated in
		Portland, Oregon.
	At five o’clock in the afternoon of the 17th
inst. the Relief Society met in the Latter-
day Saints’ Church and held a most inter-
esting meeting presided over by Relief So-
ciety President Sister Sarah M. Pratt.
	After the preliminary exercises Sister Pratt
made some opening remarks explaining why
we celebrate that day throughout the Relief
Society of the Church. She said that it
was because the first organization of this
society wss brought about by Joseph Smith,
the Prophet sixty-seven years ago today and
was the very first woman’s society ever or-
ganized for public work, in the United States
or the world. She bade the sisters welcome
and rejoiced at their presence. She also bade
President Pratt welcome as he had met with
them upon this occasion.

[Column 2]
	The hymns sung in the opening exercises,
were “Praise to the Man Who Communed
with Jehovah” and “We Thank Thee Oh!
God for a Prophet.”
	Sister Pratt read a communication from
General President of the Relief Society,
Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith and General
Secretary Emmeline B. Wells.
	Sketches from the lives of the various Re-
lief Society Presidents, Secretaries and other
officers, had been prepared with great care,
and were listened to with profound enjoy-
ment as they were read before the Society.
One especially interesting a historical sketch
of Sister Peter Whitmer at whose house the
plates were being translated, which necessi-
tated the taking care of and the cooking for
Joseph Smith the Prophet, his wife Emma
and Oliver Cowdery, making her work very
laborious, and adding additional burdens to
her already heavy load, which had begun to
discourge her somewhat. In order that she
might be comforted and strengthened for the
additional burdens, the Angel Moroni met
her and exhibited to her the plates contain-
ing the Nephite record, and turned the leaves
over, one by one, before her eyes and bore
witness that the translation of these records
was the work of God, such consolation and
strength were given to her by this glorious
manifestation that she went about her work
cheerfully during the time that the visitors
remained at her house.
	In this manner and with some very happy
and consoling remarks from President Pratt
the afternoon and early evening were spent.
	As a continuation of this celebration the
Saints of the whole ward met together about
seven thirty in the evening. After partaking
of refreshments prepared by various sisters
of the society the choir again rendered the
hymn “Praise to the Man who Communed
with Jehovah” and after the opening prayer,
three members of the choir and their leader
Elder John E. Evans rendered in the most
pleasing manner the quartett “Come where
the Lilies Bloom;” then an address of wel-
come by the President of the Relief Society,
after which songs, recitations and readings
followed each other in quick succession,
most of these pieces were sacred, one of them
being entitled “The Assassination of Joseph
and Hyrum Smith” by Eliza R. Snow; read
by President Pratt.
	To make a final climax to the enjoyment
of the evening a comedy in one act entitled
“Obstinacy” was most creditably performed
by six young people of the ward, trained
under the supervision of Elder John E.
Evans.
	Our Church was well filled and this cele-
bration was generally voted a grand success
by those who were present.
			SADIE M. Pratt, President,
			IDA DAY, Secretary.


