[Column 1]
of not being able to converse freely with her
friends, and to hear the conversation going on
about her. In a way she was shut out from
society, yet she was a great favorite with all
those, who knew her; a very attractive per-
sonality; she was fond of reading good books
especially Church literature; and was a very
fluent speaker and greatly gifted in prayer.
Even years after her hearing was gone when
she spoke in the meetings of the Saints, one
could not realize she had sat during the en-
tire service without hearing a word; her re-
marks were always interesting and in keep-
ing with the spirit of the meeting.
	Sister Rachel Grant has left quite a pos-
terity although she had only one child of
her own. Ten beautiful grand-daughters and
six great grandchildren, all strongly attached
to her, and mourning her loss; and her son
Heber J, most devoted, loving and tender,
always giving his best to his mother; and
the mother and son have been from his in-
fancy companions and comrades, all that
could possibly spring of joy and gladness,
sympathy and comfort to each other, to
make life desirable, and laudable ambition
a hope and reality. Such ties are stronger
than death, and even in advanced age
mother love is still the dearest thing on
earth. Sister Rachel Grant will live im-
perishably in the hearts of her friends and
her kindred.
	For her there was a glorious reception on
the other side, her husband, dear ones of
her own family and household, and the in-
numerable company of Saints to bid her
welcome in their midst.
	The funeral of Sister Grant was held in
the twenty-seventh ward chapel at 11 o’clock
Friday, January 29, 1909, Bishop James
Maxwell presiding. The chapel was filled
with friends and many prominent business
men of the city. The pulpit and stand were
draped in white with ferns and vines.
	Floral tributes in profusion and in many
beautiful designs. The First Presidency of
the Church and several of the Apostles were
on the stand.
	The service opened with a quartet consis-
ting of Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Miss
Mabel Cooper, George D. Pyper and Horace
S. Ensign, singing, “Thou dost not weep to
weep alone.” Prayer was offered by Elder
Jos. E. Taylor. Elder George D. Pyper sang
a solo “Sister thou wast mild and lovely.”
Elder John Henry Smith was the first
speaker, he said Sister Grant was “faithful
and true, devoted and earnest, a true soldier
of the cross; she had been a guardian angel
among the sick and the afflicted an ex-
emplar of the ideals we hold most dear in
our lives.” He paid an eloquent tribute to
her as a mother, neighbor, friend and Saint.
	President Richard W. Young spoke ten-
derly of the many virtues of “Aunt Rachel”
and the wisdom of her counsel and devotion
to the cause of truth, “She has died with
the love of all who knew her, God will wel-
come such as she.”
	President John R. Winder alluded to the
encouragement he had received from Sister
Rachel Grant and her husband Jedediah M.
Grant (who had preceded her in death many
years) when he first met them in Salt Lake
City 55 years ago; he recounted several in-
cidents that had taken place in her life in
which the nobility of her character was
shown.
	President Anthon H. Lund expressed in a
few choice words his high regard for the de-
parted sister and her son Elder Heber J.
Grant; mentioned the fact of her son being
too young to remember his father when he

[Column 2]
died, but who through his mother’s teach-
ings, had become honored as one of the
Apostles of the Lord.
	Elder Horace S. Ensign then sang “O my
Father” to the old tune which was so fami-
liar to Sister Rachel.
	President Joseph F. Smith spoke in the
most endearing terms of Aunt Rachel Grant
and declared she had been to him dearer
than a mere sister or friend; remarked upon
her loveliness in appearance, and in her
thoughts and actions; he also dwelt upon
the eternal perpetuity of the family relation-
ship as revealed through the Prophet Joseph
Smith, how wives should meet their hus-
bands and parents their children in the re-
surrection. The sermon was full of food for
thought and emphasized with great emotion,
it was a very profound discourse.
	“Farewell all earthly honors,’’ was ren-
dered by the quartet, and the closing prayer
offered by Elder Rulon S. Wells.
	A long procession of carriages followed
the remains to the grave, where the hymn
“Rest on the hill side rest” was sung and
the grave dedicated by Elder J. Hyrum Grant,
as the last earthly resting place of one
honored and beloved a mother in Israel.
“So He brings them home to rest, with the Vic-
	tors crowned and blest.”


