			IN MEMORIAM.
	RACHEL RIDGEWAY IVINS GRANT.
“Weep not that her toils are over, weep not that
	her race is run,
God grant we may rest as calmly, when our work
	like hers is done!
Till then we would yield with gladness, our treas-
	ures for him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth
	His loved ones sleep.
So He calls them in from their labors ere the shad-
	ows around them creep,
And silently watching o’er them, He giveth His
	loved ones sleep.”

	A beautiful old age is faithfully depicted
in the life of Sister Rachel Grant who passed
away very early in the morning of January
26, 1909, at the residence of Elder George
J. Cannon in this city, where she had been
living for some years past with her grand-
daughter, Lutie Grant Cannon.
	Sister Grant was herself an ideal home-
maker in every sense of the word. Her
very presence was restful, and her own
home in the Thirteenth ward where she re-
sided for many long years, had the bracing
atmosphere of real home life. Sister Grant
may have inherited this distinctive attribute
from her Dutch ancestry, and it is also a
characteristic of the Quakers or Friends,
and Sister Rachel really had the air, the
tone and mannerism of the Quakers.
	The writer has a faint remembrance of
Miss Ivins as she first saw her in Nauvoo.
She was dressed in silk, with a handsome
lace collar or fichu, and an elegant shawl
over her shoulders, and a long white lace
veil thrown back over her simple straw bon-
net. She carried an elaborate feather fan,
and now in thinking of fans, we recall the
fascination of that fan, one could easily dis-
cern the subdued Quaker pride in her method
of using it.
	The poem, “Grandmother’s Fan,” would
be an appropriate one for her many grand-
daughters.
	Years after first seeing her in Nauvoo,
when she came to the valley in 1853, and
we became intimately acquainted she was
still the same fastidious, born Quaker.
	Elder Heber J. Grant may well be proud
of his grand and noble mother and of her
antecedents. Her forefathers and fore-
mothers were distinguished people; in the
exceptionally well-written article by May
Booth Talmage, published in the Young
Woman’s Journal in April, 1908, she gives
some points concerning the ancestry of Sis-
ter Rachel Grant. One of these the daugh-
ter of a wealthy nobleman of Amsterdam,

[Column 2]
Holland, married an English Knight. The
girl’s father opposed the marriage because
the man was of inferior rank, and became
very bitter when he ascertained the marriage
had been consummated. The young peo-
ple fearing his power to separate them in
their own country, came to America, and it
is said established the Shreve family in this
country. Its members have been conspicu-
ous in the history of New Jersey, and
“Sister Rachel” is one of the descendants.
	Sister Grant, whose maiden name was
Rachel Ridgeway Ivins was the daughter of
Caleb Ivins (whose grandmother was a
Shreve) and of Edith Ridgeway, his wife.
Their home was in the state of New Jersey,
where little Rachel was born, March 7,
1821. Her father was a merchant, though
living upon a farm with a beautiful orchard
in which also grew chestnut, hickory and
walnut trees; he owned besides his own
store, a gristmill and sawmill. Caleb Ivins
was greatly beloved and was Christened by
his neighbors, “The good Samaritan.” His
wife, report says, was a lovely, spirited
woman, and both Mr. and Mrs. Ivins be-
longed to the Quakers or the Society of
Friends. Afterwards Mrs. Ivins joined the
Baptist Church.
	Rachel Ivins was but six years of age
when her father died, and her mother three
years afterwards.
	These sad events changed the home life
of the family; the children were separated,
Rachel went to Trenton, New Jersey to the
home of her cousin, Joshua Wright, where
she remained until eighteen years of age.
It was in this home she learned the arts of
housewifery though her relatives remon-
strated, saying, “such work belonged to the
servants.” She herself said, as quoted in
Sister Talmage’s article, “I could see the
hand of the Lord in this shortly after com-
ing to Utah and having to assume such
practical responsibilities.”
	Sometime after Miss Ivins went to live in
Hornerstown, New Jersey, with an uncle,
Richard Ridgeway, whose wife had died,
and it was during her stay there she first
heard the Gospel. She has quite frequently
told the story of how “after being induced
to go and hear the Elders preach, she went
home and prayed that the Lord would for-
give her for doing so wicked a thing on the
Sabbath day.”
	However she continued to go notwith-
standing the Baptist minister “declared
that if she did not cease she must give up
her seat in the church.”
	Becoming thoroughly convinced of the
truth of the Gospel she braved the opposi-
tion of relatives and friends and became a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and in 1842 went to
Nauvoo with some of her cousins of the
Ivins family, who built a handsome home
near the banks of the Mississippi river, and
who were true friends to the Prophet Joseph.
	Miss Ivins then became well acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph and his associates,
passing through the trying and thrilling ex-
periences of the Nauvoo persecutions, cul-
minating finally in the terrible tragedy of
the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patri-
arch, Joseph and Hyrum Smith.
	Subsequently following these sorrowful
events the Ivins family went back to New
Jersey, Sister Rachel accompanying them.
	In 1853, August 10, Miss Rachel Ivins
came to Salt Lake City, and has lived here
ever since. In November, 1855, she was
married to Jedediah Morgan Grant and
November 22, 1856, a son was born to Sister

[Column 3]
Rachel Grant, named Heber Jedediah, and
on December 1st, 1856, she was left a wid-
ow, but she had her babe, a child of prom-
ise, born in the new and everlasting cove-
nant of marriage.
	Her wealthy relatives in the East en-
treated her to return to them and she would
be amply provided for with no struggle for
herself and child; but like a veritable Saint
indeed she refused all such offers, prefer-
ring to make her own way among those to
whom she was more strongly attached than
the kindred, who were not believers in her
faith.
	Sister Rachel Grant prospered in all her
endeavors and always had friends among
the people, who were proud of her integrity
and her devotion to her religion. She was
an excellent seamstress and an economist,
although she had been reared in luxury; she
adapted herself to conditions and her home
was always a pattern of neatness, and one
would scarcely believe she earned her living
by her needle, or by keeping boarders.
	During those days when her son Heber
was a little boy she often entertained in the
most hospitable way her friends and some-
times very distinguished guests, and in her
own quaint way quoting again from Mrs.
Talmage’s article “They loved to come and
I loved to have them and ofttimes Heber
and I would live on very scanty fare that
we might have the greater pleasure of pro-
viding sommething good to share with our
friends.”
	It has been our privilege to know Aunt
Rachel as we call her intimately ever since
the organization of the Relief Society in the
thirteenth ward in this city. She was chosen
President in April, 1868, and filled the posi-
tion with great credit and dignity for thirty-
five years. Her first Counselors were Annie
T. Godbe and Margaret T. Mitchell, when
Mrs. Godbe was released Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith was selected to fill the vacancy;
and subsequently when Sister Mitchell’s
husband was called on a mission to the
Sandwich Islands and to take his family, Sister 
Mitchell was released and Sister Lydia Ann
Wells was chosen to fill the vacancy, this was
in 1873.
	In 1882 Sister Bathsheba W. Smith moved
from her home in the Historian’s Office to
the seventeenth ward. Sister Lydia Ann
Wells was set apart as First Counselor and
Sister Louisa K. Spencer was chosen Second
Counselor; with these Counselors and other
officers, teachers and members of the So-
ciety over which Sister Grant presided, there
was a strong bond of affection uniting them
together due largely to the leadership and
executive ability of the presiding officers,
who were all of them women of energy and
zeal as well as faith in the Gospel.
	Sister Grant was all her life associated
with the foremost women in the Church;
Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young and
Bathsheba W. Smith with others, too many
to mention here, were her constant com-
panions. When these sisters began to travel
among the sisters outside of Salt Lake City,
Sister Rachel Grant was one selected to aid
in this work. She was a woman of mighty
faith and possessed of unusual power in ad-
ministering to the sick and afflicted.
	Sister Grant’s serenity of mind and patient
endurance under all circumstances was mar-
velous; for many years she had been afflict-
ed with deafness possibly the result of quinzy
or severe throat trouble, yet she uttered no
complaint, although she realized to an al-
most painful degree the embarrassment of
the difficulty, as well as the disadvantage


