SISTERS BADGER AND NUTTALL.
	It seems rather a remarkable coincidence
that Sisters Annie Taylor Hyde and Sophia
Taylor Nuttall both of one family should de-
part this life so near to each other one on 
March 12 and the other March 20. Sister
Harriet Ann Taylor Badger another sister 
only five months previous.
	Both Sister Badger and Sister Nuttall had
been missionaries in the General Relief So-
ciety for some years and faithful in perform-
ing service whenever called to go out among
the sisters.
	Sister Hyde as is well known was Counse-
lor to the President of the General Society
so all these sisters had been associated in
this important work.
	Sister Nuttall had visited some of the far-
away Stakes Alberta and Taylor in Canada,
and quite a number of others North and
South; she was full of zeal and was humble
in spirit, and gentle in manner, always had
a smile and kind word for her friends.
	At a meeting of the Relief Society of the
Seventeenth ward held Tuesday, January 19,
1909, at the residence of Brother and Sister
Andrew Jenson Sister Nuttall bore her testi-
mony to the Gospel, and gave some good in-
structions to the sisters she testified of the
goodness of God in raising her from a bed
of sickness; and those who saw her on that
occasion felt she would live to go among
the people again, and labor in the Society
as heretofore. We had no idea then we
should never hear or see her in this life but
this was her last public message to the sis-
ters, though we knew it not.
	The meeting was a reunion and birthday
party as well in honor of Sister Fanny T.
Howell an English sister the mother of Sis-
ters Andrew Jenson, who was 80 years of
age on that day and also Sister Abbie
H. Cowley’s birthday who was present.
It was a sort of banquet, and geniality
and congratulations which made it a very
happy occasion. Sister Nuttall participated
in it and enjoyed the affair seemingly as
much as the others. Thus it is in the midst
of life, we know not who may be called next.
There was very good music also; solo sing-
and recitations, and General President Bath-
sheba W. Smith spoke feelingly of the ward 
where she had for Borne time been President
of that Society and mentioned some of those
associated with her in the work who had
since passed away, spoke in praise of Sister
Marinda N. Hyde an intimate friend and
neighbor the former President; it was a very
interesting meeting and a good spirit, many
excellent things were said worthy of record
and remembrance.
	Sister Sophia T. Nuttall’s funeral was held
in the Seventeenth Ward Chapel on Tues-
day, March 23, Bishop F. S. Tingey in
charge. The speakers were Elder Matthias
Cowley, President John R. Winder and Pre-
sident Anthon H. Lund, also the Bishop; all
testified of the excellent traits of character
of the deceased; her beautiful motherhood,
her devotion as a wife, and particularly as a
neighbor and friend.
	There were many lovely floral offerings
and the hall was tastefully draped in white,
fitting emblem of purity. The Relief Society
sisters in the big Utah with a profusion of
flowers occupied a suitable place in the pro-
cession that followed the remains of the de-
parted to the grave.
	May our Heavenly Father comfort and
console the orphan children who are left
fatherless and motherless, and may they fol-
low in the footsteps of their honored father
and mother Brother and Sister Nuttall.


