[Column 1]
		HERE AND THERE.
	The new and strange events constantly
transpiring here and elsewhere throughout
the world are so many and various, that it is
quite impossible to keep posted even if one
had time to read the daily papers including
all telegraphic dispatches; therefore one
must be content with here a little and there
a little, and perhaps better not to know too
much.
	Waves of disaster by sea and by land, all
sorts of calamities and accidents transpir-
ing, and commotions and troubles, and wars
in countries afar off and notwitstanding all
these destructive forces great movements
in the way of progress are made, numerous
discoveries and inventions; colonizing new
countries and opening up facilities for agri-
culture and commerce, and for speedy com-
munication over long distances, both on
the ocean and on land, such as were not
dreamed of forty or fifty years ago—one can-
not help wondering what we are coming to;
or what will be the next step in advance-
ment towards a higher state of civilization.
	Will it be communication with the people
on the planet Mars? Who can tell? Un-
doubtedly the great effort to ascertain if
Mars is inhabited or not will soon be made.
	One thing that the Latter-day Saints do
know, is that the Lord has in these last days
spoken from the heavens, and told his pro-
phets many wonderful things concerning what
would transpire in the world, during certain
periods of time and many of these things
predicted have already come to pass, and
have been fulfilled to the letter; others we
solemnly believe will be.
	Are this people giving heed there to?
	In our opinion many are: there has cer-
tainly been during the last seven or eight
years, great changes for the better. Quorums
and organizations have been set in order
more perfectly, and the people generally
have been more diligent and faithful in the
discharge of duties and obligations, and
greater harmony of action promoted.
	The many responsibilities resting upon
the sisters in the Church and especially
mothers seem to have increased, because of

[Column 2]
the tendency of the times towards greater
freedom of action, among the people gener-
ally than in former days, when things were
more primitive, and there were not so many
temptations in the way of the young people
—and we find this is not only the case in
cities, or large towns but even farther away
from great centres, similar tendencies pre-
vail to an almost alarming extent, is it for
lack of proper restraint? Very much has
been done by the Latter-day Saints; fathers
and mothers and heads of families have tried
to stem the current, and excesses of various
habits and customs, and yet one is appalled
at the prevalence of some of the evils once
entirely unknown and unheard of among
people of religious belief, or high moral
standards.
	It is useless perhaps to enumerate these
things, yet one is scarcely justified in being
silent on vital subjects, that undermine the
health and hinder the growth of the best and
highest attributes of the heart and soul.
	Extremes of all kinds are detrimental to
the individual in some ways and should al-
ways if possible be avoided.
	It may be that in the days long ago, our
people had too much hard work and priva-
tion, but the tendency was not hurtful ex-
cept perhaps in rare instances; but idleness
and disregard for law and order—and living
beyond one’s means, and trying to keep up
appearances beyond one’s actual income is
a great risk to one’s morals, and leads to
many evils, that cannot always be overcome
without lessening one’s opinion of himself
at least. The simple home life such as the
early settlers in this valley practised and
maintained, and was counseled by those who
practised what they preached was in itself
a protection and a veritable safeguard.
	A real home means much to children and
to family life altogether. In the early days
one felt a great pride and satisfaction in real-
izing that most of the Latter-day Saints owned
their own homes and a garden spot at least;
but now-a-days it is not so much thought of
or the fact appreciated, that to the children
it is so significant.  Home is of itself an
almost inexhaustible subject, a permanent
dwelling place where one can enjoy the tran-
quility, the peace, the restfulness that comes
from the society of loved ones, and where
there is protection from dangers and evil.
To be sure there are thousands yet among
our people who own their own homes, but
the fashion nowadays is to live in flats or
to board, among young people more espe-
cially. The humblest home on a piece of
land of one’s own is preferable. Let the
little children have the solid earth under
their feet, instead of hardwood floors, they
will enjoy life more and live longer.
	The counsel given by Brigham Young in
the early settlement of these mountain vales,
would be excellent to repeat at the present
time; he taught the real “simple life” by
precept and example. We hear some peo-
ple talk of the simple life as if it was a new
idea, we “Mormons” had the simple life
in fact and in sober earnest. Not that
one would like to go through all those
experiences again, but better even that in
the way of dress and of food, than some
of the hideous fashions of the day; and the
elaborate cookery.

	And now a word to the sisters about sav-
ing grain, the outlook at the present is not
very hopeful as regards the supply of bread-
stuffs for future need. The “Mormon”
women are the only womne who have grain
stored against a time of need, and it is quite


necessary that they should be on the watch
to protect that which is stored; and to re-
plenish their granaries, for should there
really be a lack of breadstuff, the money in
the bank would not help them.
	It is a long time now since the counsel
was given, and doubtless some have grown
weary of taking care of the wheat stored,
but surely all rejoice that so far there has
not been such great necessity for its being
disbursed, yet to be prepared for such an
emergency must be a satisfaction in itself.
And after all the grain on hand would not
be sufficient to feed a great army of hungry
people. To have granaries full of wheat is
something women-need never be ashamed
of, and if in a good state of preservation it
is certainly commendable for any commun-
ity, and quite a remarkable undertaking
for women, yet quite in keeping with a
charitable society organized for benevolent
purposes. And it is a sacred duty and obli-
gation to keep it against a time of scarcity
and famine.
	It is a step in a direction never under-
taken by women before in any period of the
world, and as the counsel came from Presi-
dent Brigham Young, prophet, seer and rev-
elator, there is every reason to believe that
he foresaw the wisdom of such a movement,
in order to keep a supply of grain on hand
for any emergency that might arise, that the
children might not cry for bread as in the
time of the grasshopper devastation. The
fact of taking care of the grain stored cannot
be emphasized too much.


