[Column 1]
	As soon as the weather permitted, we
started for Winter Quarters, arriving three
weeks before the second company started
for the valley. Here we found we were
short of the requirement of provisions for
all of us to continue our journey. My
brother, after trying to collect some money
that was owing father, (the brethren were in
no condition to do anything besides look
after their own families) after asking coun-
sel of Father Morley (he was one set apart
to give counsel) he decided to wait another
year. He made arrangements with a fam-
ily named Kinyon for me to travel with;
paying him one hundred dollars in provi-
sions. We had an uncle here, Benjamin
Aber, who offered for a small weekly pay-
ment to take care of our little brother; we
left our wagons and goods in his care,
while my elder brother went down in Mis-
ssuri to get work. He was in his eighteenth
year. The next spring he was sick with
malaria, and the next year while coming up
the river, he had his trunk, clothing and
money stolen. Sick and discouraged, he
went to Cincinnati where he worked into a
partnership in the steel and stencil engrav-
ing business. He prospered, and bought
out his partner. We corresponded until the
civil war broke out, when he wrote that he
thought of joining the army. That was the
last I heard of him.
	At Winter Quarters I met my sister Mary.
She had lost her young husband, John Mur-
dock. While driving the cattle through the
Missouri river, he had taken cold and died,
and was the first white man buried in the
Indian Mound at Winter Quarters, leaving
a bride of five months, a widow at the age
of fifteen. She stayed with her husband’s
mother, and journeyed across the plains in
Captain Jedediah M. Grant’s company. I
traveled in Captain A. O. Smoot’s com-
pany. Kinyon being captain of ten, I drove
a two horse team for him as far as Fort Lar-
amie, where my team and three other horses
were stolen by Indians. From there to the
valley I drove a yoke of oxen; walking most
of the way to lighten the load. I helped
set out the meals, wash dishes, make mush
for next day’s lunch milked four cows that
gave enough milk for our mush. This I
strained in a churn, and and the jolting
of the wagon churned butter for one meal;
seven in family, three boys, Mr. and Mrs.
Kinyon, her brother George Swartout, and
myself.
	One morning at Green River, Sister
Kinyon’s babe was born, a widow by the
name of McKimins acting as doctor and
nurse. In about two days we drove on,
joining our company at their noon lunch.
The babe became a great comfort to me,
it was something to love all the next win-
ter. I would hurry through my work to hold
it in my arms. The family never knew how
the orphan girl longed for the kind words
they so freely gave their own, and that I
had been so recently deprived of. The
mother was a good woman, but the father
was always surly with me; only speaking
to order some work done. He became
weak in the faith, and later going to Cali-
fornia to seek better conditions. On his re-
turn trip he and two others were killed by
the Indians. I heard the family went to
southern California in the spring of ’48.
	Aunt Sally Murdock, my sister’s mother-
in-law, complained that carrying the water
across the fort and other work was too hard
for me. She made arrangements to take me
and demanded my share of provisions, five
hundred of flour, which she got. They had

[Column 2]
received flour in payment for bringing me
out and keeping me a year. As soon as the
roots began to grow, I had dug them and
mostly lived on them; although they were
almost tasteless it stopped the gnawing
hunger; and I was told it was wicked to eat
more than was necessary to stop hunger; the
children were younger than I, and I felt
they needed the bread more than I did,
having less control of their appetites.
	The Mormon Batallion boys were coming
into the valley now and had to be fed;
each family giving what they could spare.
By trade, work and donations they managed
to live. People had now begun to move
out on pieces of land, to raise crops, having
brought seed with them, some living in
wagon boxes, others in tents, some leaving
their families in the fort. I went with
Aunt Sally Murdock and her young son
Nymphas, fourteen years of age, to help
plant and herd the cows off the fields. We
had no fences. We had neighbors doing
the same. Our crops on Mill Creek bench
were doing fine; irrigation ditches running,
everything looking prosperous, good bread,
milk and sego roots to eat Here we fared
better than some of our neighbors. One
near us, having a cow and a little meal,
lived on gruel, another, by the name of
Johnson, lived on milk alone, their families
in the Fort, faring little better, all waiting
for the crops to mature. Then came the
big black crickets. All turned out to drive
them off; the old lady Murdock and myself
with willow limbs walking up and down
each row and Nymphas filling the ditches
with water to drown them.  But with all we
could do, more came, until we realized our
efforts were vain. Then came our God-
given blessing, the gulls. We stood in
wonderment to see them fill themselves and
disgorge, filling again and again. Then we
knew the Lord sent them. Aunt Sally
raised her arms to beaven and said, “O
Lord, we thank Thee for our deliverance!”
Here I wish to bear my testimony that I
know our heavenly Father sent the gulls.
	Ours were the first people to make homes
west of the Missouri river, a thousand miles
from civilization. Our Heavenly Father
had delivered us from persecutions and
drivings of those who hated our religion,
gave us a goodly land where the Saints
have grown to a mighty people still grow-
ing and prospering as we never could in
Kirtland, Missouri or Nauvoo, only in the
valleys of the mountains, where a multitude
have found homes, raised sturdy children to
manhood and womanhood—no more intel-
ligent ones to be found in all the world.
	I lived with Sister Murdock until my
eighteenth year, then stayed with my sister
Mary. She had married again and lived in
Kaysville and remained there for fifteen
years, where her six children were born.
Her husband, O. S. Holmes, was persuaded
to go to California, going with team, driving
his herd. By this journey my sister had
crossed the continent from New Jersey to
the Pacific in a covered wagon. Her hus-
band died a few years after, and I was at
her bedside eight years after when she
passed away.
	My brother Benjamin lived four years with
Uncle Aber. Tired of waiting one morning
he started out bare-headed and bare-footed
to walk to the valley. After walking until
very tired, he came to a camp of men going
to the California gold mines. They kindly
brought him to where the roads turned off,
then got him in a train coming this way.

[Column 3]
He is now living on his ranch in Provo
valley.
	I was married to Charles H. Decker a
pioneer, and one that was an active business
man, aiding in many ways the improve-
ments being made. He crossed the plains
fifty-three times, carrying the United States
mail through a hostile Indian country, es-
caping only by outriding them. At times
he was guide in finding and rescuing the late
hand cart companies; was in the mountains
in Echo Canyon the winter Johnston’s
army was coming. He served in the Indian
wars, and belonged to the company called
minute men, and later the Nauvoo Legion
He was a liberal giver at the time of the
wheat famine when many were asking for
bread, many new comers who had spent
their last dollar to bring their families to the
valley. The crops failing that year, flour
was ten cents a pound, and very little to
sell. It was a pitiful sight to see women
selling their trinkets, rings, relics that they
had held almost sacred, for something to
feed their hungry families, children out ask-
ing for crusts of bread; men begging for
work at any price, and again the grass-
hoppers stripped our gardens and trees of
every vestige of green, leaving them in a few
hours as bare as in a winter day. My hus-
band died seven years ago in March, in his
seventy-sixth year. His first wife, Vilate Y.
Decker, died soon after, leaving three chil-
dren, two sons; a daughter, Alice Pitt, now
living in Sugar Ward, had twelve children.
I have only two living, five dying a few
hours after birth.
	My daughter lives in San Francisco.
While visiting her I witnessed the earth-
quake and fire that laid waste that beauti-
ful thriving city where death and destruc-
tion now reigned. In the confusion parents
lost their children. and children their par-
ents. Babes were sent East to find homes,
and will never know to whom they be-
longed. Two days we were cut off from the
rest of the world. All means to stop the
fire were exhausted. We had gone to the
hills when the relief firemen arrived. Next
came the carload of bread from Utah, and
other relief soon followed, money was of no
use. There was nothing to sell. Rich and
poor lined up in the street and waited for
their rations. But the story is too long to
tell here. I trust I have not wearied my
readers with a few incidents of my life with
the Saints, or tried too severely the patience
of my very dear friend, the Editor.


