[Column 1]
A VERY INTERESTING OLD LETTER.
			IN EXILE, March 30, 1887.
My Very Dear Aunt Mercy R.:
	Your welcome favor of Dec. 28, ’86, and
Jan. 9, ’87’ with card of remembrance of
Aunt Martha’s death are all before me.
You have, no doubt, wondered at my long
silence, and thought me neglectful of duty,
but I would not like to rest under such a
feeling from you. I have various, or rather
numerous reasons for delaying my answer to
your welcome letter—for your letters are al-
ways more welcome and pleasing to me than
two-thirds of those I do receive. And more
worthy of my earnest consideration and
prompt acknowledgement. Still more,
there are none more welcome, not even
from my own dear loved ones, for you are
the last remaining link of your generation,
which binds me to the earthly remembrance
of my own beloved and cherished Mother.
Not only by the natural ties of birth and
blood, but by the stronger and more endur-
ing ties of fellowship in the bonds of the
New and Everlasting Covenant.
	The example of your life has been like a
way-mark and a guide to all that is true
and faithful, pure and good, for all who
have known you. There can be nothing
more satisfying, or more assuring to the
youth of Israel and especially to such as
have known your undeviating, unselfish in-
tegrity to the cause of Zion, than the exam-
ple of yeur life.  I prize it, I bless you for
its happifying influence upon my youthful
and middle age. I thank you with all my
heart for your faithfulness and firmness to
the cause of Zion. And I thank God for His
goodness and mercy towards you all your life
long, and I hope you will live in the flesh to
see Zion redeemed, and the kingdom of God
victorious over all the world. I know you
will live to see this and all the triumphs of
truth throughout the blessed Millennium,
but it may be after the resurrection and re-
newal of that poor, enfeebled frame of yours
which now has to suffer with the ills of
mortality. For you have eaten of the bread
of life, and, have drunk at that fountain
which giveth life eternal.
	On Dec. 20, 1842, the Prophet said:
“Christ and the resurrected Saints will reign
over the earth a thousand years. They will
not probably dwell on the earth, but will
visit it when they please; or when it is nec-
essary to govern it.” The promise is yours
and it is your right to come forth in the morn-
ing of the resurrection, on such the second
death has no power, and with your husband
you shall reign on the earth, although you
may not make it your permanent abiding
place during the thousand years. I know
that you will live to see Zion redeemed, and
you will, with your husband, and those you
have given unto him, together with the
righteous who have part in the first resur-
rection, be priests and priestesses unto God
and Christ and reign with him a thousand
years (see Rev. 20: 6). Then shall Satan
be loosed for “a little season,” and then
comes the final great battle and the victory
of the Lamb of God, and the end of the
world; then will Satan, the old serpent be
bound, with his hosts and thrust into their
pit, and then shall we see a new heaven
and a new earth, for the old shall pass away
and all things shall become new, and then
shall the Saints of the Most High receive their
inheritance forever, and shall possess the new
earth, and the new heaven for ever and forever.
This is the program, as set forth in the
ever living word of God, whose word is true

[Column 2]
and its promise sure, and those who possess
it in their hearts and endure to the end of
mortal life, can afford to rejoice, and suffer
if need be, and have joy therein.
	I look upon your faithful life as an ex-
emplification of implicit faith in this glori-
ous word, and as such it has borne and will
bear its precious fruits which will bud and
blossom and fruit again and again from
generation to generation to all eternity, and
so the end thereof, tho’ not always seen,
passeth understanding and is most glorious.
Well might the Psalmist say, “I have seen
the wicked in great power, and spreading
himself like a green bay tree, yet he passed
away and lo, he was not, yea, I sought him
but he could not be found. Mark the per-
fect man, and behold the upright, for the
end of that man is peace, the salvation of
the righteous is of the Lord, he is their
strength in the time of trouble, and the Lord
shall help them. He shall deliver them
from the wicked and save them, because
they trust in him.” Not many may know
you, but your life has not been hid from
God, nor from the eyes of some of the faith-
ful, and some who have shone in splendor,
and whose praises have been sung, will yet
pale before the beauty of thy glories, and
diminish in the presence of thy greater re-
wards. From the multitude you have been
hid with Christ in God, your faith has been
that of the first order, altho’ meek and quiet,
your works have been those of an exalted
rank, tho’ unpretentious and unboastful.
And such as met the highest commenda-
tions of the great High Priest of your pro-
fession (see Mark 12: 41-44). Your forti-
tude under trials has been wonderful, your
desires, those of a Saint indeed; your char-
ity to the poor has been abundant, unstint-
ed, your devotion to principle, to the king-
dom of God, to prayers and duty has been
faultless, and your life, a life of self-abnega-
tion and sacrifice for others’ good. You
have loved God and Christ, and sought to
honor them in your works. These things
have even been apparent to me, and how
much more so to Him who seeth and know-
all things. I do not say these things to
flatter, the truth is no flattery, much less
when but part of the truth is told, but that you
may know in your old age and feeble years, a
few of the true sentiments of my heart, and
my appreciation of your true Christian ex-
ample; for which your reward is sure.
	The reasons I have not answered sooner
are in part that I have been a little over-
taxed with correspondence and have not
been able to meet the demands upon me.
I still have many letters to answer, and they
keep coming every mail. Before my late
sickness I managed to keep up, but then I
fell behind and have not yet caught up.
Again, I trust you get word from
me from time to time thro’ the family,
so that I thought I could put you off a lit-
tle, and I know you would forgive me for
my seeming neglect. Before this you have
met my precious companion and babies,
from whom I parted on the 16th inst. They
should have reached home, all being well,
on Sunday morning the 27th inst. Allow-
ing one whole day and part of two days in
San Francisco. I earnestly hope they
reached home in safety, enjoying the bless-
ings of health and peace, and found all well
at home. While my precious Sarah has
been a mother to her children, Julina has
been wife and companion, and all a mother
could be to me, unless she could have been
more aud better than human. I feel that
God has blessed me with the best wives in

[Column 3]
all this world. I cannot afford to be un-
true or unfaithful to them. And I thank
God no such thought has ever yet entered
my heart for an instant, I can die any time
the Lord is willing or calls for me, but in
life or in death, I must be true to those who
are true to me. I would rather never have
been, aye, a thousand times never have
been, than to be unfaithful to them. I can-
not see how I can be true to God or myself
without eternal fidelity to them. Therefore
to this end my heart is fixed, and Cod help-
ing me I shall not, for I cannot change, and
would not if I could. But this seems small
talk to me, as no doubt it does to you. It
is not a debatable question, there can be no
ifs and buts about it, for fidelity and truth
to my covenants means eternal life, and
infidelity thereto means death, hell and
damnation! Surely there ought to be no
possible circumstance connected with this
life, wherein a man can for a moment hesi-
tate as to his choice between these two.
And yet men have fallen, therefore I pray and
crave God’s merciful help, that I may stand.
	Well, Robert stayed with me after the
folks left, and he took the best of care of me.
He was “Chief Cook and butler,” and did
his work well. No one could be more kind
or willing to make my lot as pleasant as
possible. We spent almost a week togeth-
er, and then came out here. He has now
gone to Town with the team and saddle
horse to help out some of the poor Saints to
conference. Started this morning and will
be back tomorrow, all being well. I think
it high time that you should enjoy all you
possibly can of what blessings you possess.
Certainly no one is more deserving, and
when you need what I am owing, you shall
have it if everything else has to stop, you
should have had it before if I had been at
home. I may say incidentally that Robert
is well clothed and eomfortable, so is Hy-
rum, no where else in the world are Elders
provided for as they are here, not all of
them appreciate it either. I think Robert
does, and also Hyrum; they both know my
mind on such subjects. They are both
good boys, and both of them are kind and
respectful to their brethren. That dream
and patriarchal blessing was very interest-
ing. I forwarded them to the address you
gave. I would like to have my mother’s
grave and grave stone renovated and re-
lettered, and will try to arrange for having
it done as soon as I can. I have dreamed
several times about her, and I am satisfied
something is wrong, but what it is the
Spirit has not made plain to me, I know I
should do something for her, and if I can
learn what my duty is I shall leave no
stone unturned to do it. I have been some-
what impressed that she desires me to have
her sealed to father in the Temple, but sup-
posing she was sealed in Nauvoo, I have
not known if it was what she wants. I
have no idea that she cares very much about
her grave stone or such things. I am satis-
fied something is needed.
	There is no difficulty about unembodied
or disembodied spirits conversing together
or with mortals (see B. of M. Ether 3: 16,
and Doc. and Cov. Sec. 129: 7). God bless
you and deliver you from affliction and
suffering. Give my love to Mary Jane.
May God bless her, heal her and sustain
her by his Holy Spirit. Give my love to
the girls, and tell them to be true and
faithful. Robert is becoming a good speak-
er on the first principles. Excuse this
hasty scribble and believe me ever, Your
Affectionate Nephew,	JOS. F. SMITH.


