REMINISCENCES OF NAUVOO.
Written by LOUISA DECKER for the Exponent.
		(Continued from page 42.)
	It was now our task to get our wagon
ready, Nathaniel getting a permit to go on
the field to bring the front wheels of the
wagon that had been used to mount a can-
non. The city was now in possession of
the enemy and parties were searching for
ammunition and guns that might not have
been delivered. Our trunks and boxes were
emptied on the floor, and as I followed them
from room to room, I said, “These are the
men that make our homes desolate.”
	Now we made all haste to cross the river.
We helped mother to her seat in the wagon,
Nathaniel driving and I following with the
one horse wagon that father had used to de-
liver his work.
	We traveled slow and stopped with some
camp of Saints at night, as there were
many all along the road. There was much
sickness in these camps, and the fall rain
made the roads bad. Some had camped
where the men could get a few days’ work.
	We got as far as Garden Grove, where a
few had settled. We found a family that
we knew in Kirtland by the name of Mac-
Kinney. They received mother in their
house, where she gave birth to a baby boy,
which only lived a few hours; and mother
passed away on the morning of the 5th of
November.
	Here we found kind friends to see that
mother and babe were properly dressed, one
neighbor, Brother Whipple, made the neat
pine board coffin that held mother and babe.
	Now we were prepared to continue our jour-
ney to Winter Quarters. My brother Na-
thaniel and a few young men heard that
they could get work down in Missouri where
they went. The MacKinneys offered my-
self and brother Benjamin for a small rent
payment room to put our camp stove in one
side of their big fireplace and room to put
our bed, while some of their older boys
slept in our wagons. This was a family of
twelve children, father and mother, and a
big log room to shelter all. Here I cooked
and cared for my little brother, sometimes
getting a dish of hominy from the big-
hearted Sister MacKinney.


