	A TRIBUTE TO SISTER HYDE.
	We do not feel that a word can be uttered
that will add to the record of our dear sister,
whom we have met to honor this day. She
has ever been a true, womanly woman in all
that the word implies. A wife and mother,

[Column 2]
noble, sincere, capable and devoted; a
daughter kind and faithful in all things. A
consistent, genuine Latter-day Saint. As
sister and friend, generous, tender and true;
as counselor, wise, earnest and just.
	The Spartan fortitude which marked Sis-
ter Hyde’s entire life work has been most
heroically exemplified in her last critical ill-
ness; cheerful, patient and hopeful under the
most serious conditions, thoughtful and soli-
citous for others, charitable, generous and
courteous to every one, and nothing but her
own implicit faith and trust in God and His
mercies could have sustained her through
the long months of intense suffering she has
endured.
	Our acquaintance since laboring in the
General Relief Society Board with our dear
sister has been of a close, intimate nature.
Long, hard missionary trips, sometimes
made by team, have brought out many traits
of character that years of association in our
home towns would not have developed.
We have made several long journeys with
dear Sister Annie Hyde, and never found
one quality that was other than pure, elevat-
ing, beautiful and womanly. She was a
natural born lady in very deed, refined, cul-
tured and well informed to an unusual de-
gree. A woman of wonderful faith and in-
tegrity, temperate in all her habits, modest
in dress, a conscientious Relief worker and
officer, gentle and self-sacrificing under every
condition. She never failed in her appoint-
ments, neither was she tardy in attending
her meetings. Always thoughtful and anx-
ious for those who entertained and gave to
us the most cordial and best of their hospi-
tality. She was ever charitable and liberal
to the poor, loyal and staunch to her friends.
The personal loss to her immediate family
alone can over balance what we, her sister-
associates and near companions, sustain at
this time. Women like Sister Hyde leave
an indelible memory, a strong tie, that time
can never efface.
	For Annie Taylor Hyde came of a fine an-
cestry. On her mother’s side Jane Ballan-
tyne was of the sturdy, high souled Scotch
Covenanters who did so much to establish
religious freedom in their own country, and
sent so many noble men and women to the
New World to help in its colonization. Her
father, John Taylor, was ever the trusted
friend and often the companion of our be-
loved Prophet and Patriarch, and the only
man whose blood mingled with that of our
martyred heroes, he having been wounded
five times on that memorable 27th of June,
1844, at Carthage. President Taylor was
not only one of the early defenders and pro-
moters of the Latter-day Saint Church, the
able expounder of our Savior’s gospel, but
he was one of the most polished, learned,
scholarly men identified with the Pioneer
founders of Utah, our great and growing
commonwealth, also the third president of
her people.
	Then ’tis no wonder, being of such worthy,
intelligent parentage, born and reared in this
grand, high mountainous region of the great
Wasatch range, that Sister Hyde has left a
record, a character all may honor and emu-
late.

[Column 3]
	We will miss her able counsel, her gentle,
cheerful presence. We mourn with her loved
ones in their irreparable bereavement, yet
we feel stimulated for we have faith and
hope in our Father’s promises, in the glori-
ous reuniting of family circles, knowing this
is only the preparatory life, the hereafter is
eternal, everlasting, and the separation brief.
If we live worthily we will again meet our
dear friend, our beloved associate.
	May a portion of God’s influence be in the
homes and lives of Sister Hyde’s family,
especially the two missionaries, her absent
sons, to comfort and bless, to guide and di-
rect, to strengthen them at this time, is our
earnest, sincere prayer.
