OBITUARY.
	Sister Ellison Gourley departed this life, Febru-
ary 13, 1909, after an illness of two weeks. Aged
76 years.
	She was born at Garco, Lanarkshire, Scotland.
At the age of 19 years she married Elder Paul
Gourley a widower with 5 children.
	She emigrated to Utah in 1856, coming with the
last hand cart company arriving in Salt Lake
City, about the 1st of December. The reason she
came with the last company, her husband being
a cartwright stopped back on the Iowa camp
ground making carts for the rest of the people.
She was in Captain Larkins company. She suf-
fered much on the plains being ill almost all the
way. She had two children of her own, one of
which died on the plains; and the other after she
arrived in Salt Lake City. She lived in the 11th
ward of Salt Lake City until she moved to Goshen
in 1858 with her husband and family.
	She was one of the most prominent women of
the Goshen ward, being a teacher in the Sunday
School from its first organization and a member
of the choir, and was counselor in the Relief So-
ciety for many years.
	She has been a widow for 19 years, has lived
alone during that time, the children of her hus-
band all being married.
	She visited the sick of all classes and did much
good in caring for the same and helping the needy,
and dressing the dead.
	She was a very sweet singer and loved to sing
the Songs of Zion until her death. While she was
lying on her deathbed she sang some of the hymns
and she seemed to enjoy doing so.
	She was beloved by many, many people for her
cheerful disposition, generous heart, her kind
acts, and good deeds.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas—Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst our beloved sister
	Therefore—be it resolved by the members of
Goshen Relief Society that we will cherish her
memory and emulate her good deeds, and re-
member her sweet smiling face and cheerful dis-
position.
	Resolved that we spread upon the record of the
Relief Society these resolutions and send a copy
to the Woman’s Exponent for publication.
	Rest in peace our dear kind sister,
		We will miss her from our ward.
	She proved faithful to the gospel,
		And has gone to her reward.
						Annie M. Lichfield,
						Lucy P. Taylor, 
								Committee.


