SOCIAL HALL PARTIES.
	The Genealogical Society gave an unique
entertainment in the Social Hall in honor
of the home coming of President Joseph F.
Smith and party after the visit to the Sand-
which Islands and to the descendants of the
founders of the Church.
	Supper was served in the dining room
three tables the entire length of the room
being filled with guests and served by the
members of the Society to every variety of
delicacies to satisfy the most fastidious Epi-
curean.
	The surprise however was in giving on a
screen of canvass arranged on the platform
pictures in Church history, commencing with
the birthplace of the Prophet Joseph Smith
and showing the progress of the work in its
advancement from place to place, and year
to year. It was distinctively original in its
presentation and its delineation, on the can-
vass. Sister Susa Young Gates herself made
suitable explanations as the pictures were
changed, which made it easy for the un-
initiated to comprehend all the details of
the progress of the proceedings. Toward the
close when Nauvoo was given President Jos-
eph F. Smith gave briefly interesting remi-
niscences of those days and his childish re-
collections of some soul-stirring events that
transpired.
	Sister Gates like her illustrious father
Brigham Young has a fertile brain.

	The Genealogical Society gave a party
Thursday eyening, April 8th, in honor of the
veterans of the famous Zion’s camp that went
up to Missouri in 1834, leaving Kirtland in
the month of April; the Prophet Joseph
Smith being in charge of the company con-
sisting of over one hundred and fifty able-
bodied men with twenty baggage wagons.
History has recorded this remarkable journey
made on foot in that early day. Of all those
who went forth at that time young and vig-
orous only one man (so far as known) sur-
vives today, Brother Nathan Tanner now
ninety-four years of age, on his birthday
May 14, 1909. Brother Tanner’s daughter
came with her venerable father and her hus-
band, Hon. F. S. Richards, to the party.
	This veteran survivor attended the party
in the Social Hall and spoke to the people
giving briefly some salient points of the re-
markable journey being commemorated.
	Elder W. W. Riter made some explana-
tions, in regard to that remote but interest-
ing period when the Church was in its infancy.
It is well that the younger members of the
Church should know from living witnesses
some of the struggles of the early days in
the establishing of this great work which has
grown to such large proportions. Brother
Tanner cannot have too much honor for the
part he has taken not only in Zion’s camp
but in pioneering in this Western country.
	He was ploughing in the field when he
was called to go up to Missouri a lad nine-
teen years of age. It was a sort of perilous
undertaking. Looking back upon it Brother
Tanner must feel a great satisfaction in re-
calling his intimate association with the
great Prophet of this last dispensation.
	There was good music and dancing and
the evening was enjoyable because of re-
miniscences and greetings of old friends and
acquaintances, even for those who did not
dance.


