[Vol11 | October 1924 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: A Happy Remembrance]

A Happy Remembrance
By Lula Greene Richards

Sister Elizabeth Claridge McCune and myself became personally acquainted about the time of the dedication of the Salt Lake temple. From the first time we met we admired and appreciated each other. Both being early chosen as temple workers we had opportunities, for more than thirty years which we improved, of becoming well acquainted and much attached as congenial friends and co-workers in a great and far-reaching cause which was mutually dear to us.

It is unnecessary to repeat in this brief memento, eulogies on Sister McCune's devotion to the gospel and its saving principles. All who knew and loved her and I think that includes all the temple workers with thousands of others, must realize her genuineness as a Latter-day Saint. The point I would make here is in relation to a very simple yet pleasing incident which occurred at or near the time of Sister McCune's farewell to the temple and her associates therein and all its loved environments, though none of us thought at the time that it was a final parting; but I think it was the last day of her services in the temple. We worked together, she and I. For some reason I was impressed in an unusual way with the extra care she seemed to take and her earnestness in all she said and did. As we finished one portion of our work and the two of us passed from one room into another, there came into my memory a couplet of an old familiar poem entitled, as I believe, "My Son's Wife." In my mind the lines were quickly transposed to suit the occasion, and placing my arm caressingly around the woman at my side I said to her,

"A sweeter woman ne'er drew breath
Than my dear friend, Elizabeth."

My companion returned my touch of love and with a warmth I had not anticipated responded to the sentiment I had expressed by saying,

"Thank you! Sister Lula, I appreciate that coming from you for I know your sincerity, and I want you to know your tender feelings toward me are reciprocated." Those were the last words passed between Sister McCune and myself until a day or two previous to her death.

I am glad I did not for any reason, withold the expression of those loving thoughts, but that I handed to my sister that little "flower of affection" that day in the temple. The gentle response they brought forth will always be sweet to my soul when I think of Sister Elizabeth.
