LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in December) PROBLEMS OF INCOME A measure of economic security is essential to satisfactory family development. The burden and worry of debts may be the cause of much unpleasantness and unhappiness. Financial insecurity, too, may deprive the members of a family of certain needs ?sufficient food, clothing, health care, education, etc. Economic security is dependent on two factors: first, the nature and the amount of the income, and second, the manner in which the income is spent. This discussion will deal with some of the problems of income and the subject of the next lesson will be family budgets and expenditures. It is impossible to state in actual figures what the income for a family of a certain number should be. The amount necessary to maintain a family varies with the ages, the state of health, the educational standards of the group, and on the living costs in different neiyhborhoods, localities, and in different seasons of the year. To determine, then, what income is needed to maintain a family, it is necessary to study its standard of living; that is, to determine what things all of the members of the group hold to be essential to their well-being and for which they are willing to sacrifice. If there is a discrepancy between the available income and the proposed budget, either the income must be increased or the expenditures curtailed. If an increase in income seems to be necessary to maintain a family properly, it may be that the man, who usually provides the family income, can be placed in a better position. It is possible that he is not suited to his work and is, consequently, not advancing financially as his family responsibilities increase. Or, it may be that the nature of his occupation makes regular employment difficult. He may prosper certain years or certain seasons but at other periods find himself financially distressed. A family whose. Income is based on seasonal occupations must necessarily plan more carefully than one whose income is fixed and regular. But even with the regular income of a man suitably employed, a family's needs may be greater than the man's earnings. The pressure of an inadequate income, together with increasing vocational opportunities, have made many a woman seek a place in the industrial world. It is difficult to decide just how completely a woman's activities should be restricted to the home. Many women succeed very satisfactorily in rearing a family and, at the same time, pursuing some study, or career, or occupation. There is, however a great need of social protest, if family life is made to suffer because of women's activities outside the home. This protest should be especially strong, if it is the lack of an income that forces a mother to shoulder the double load of supporting the family and managing her home. To place children in industry in order to supplement an inadequate income is now looked upon with disfavor. It is obviously poor economy to sacrifice health, education, and normal development of children merely to add their pittance to the family budget. Although there still are children who are placed in factories and shops and in the fields before they are physically able to perform such labor, and although many children are taken from the schoolroom with only the most rudimentary training, the prevailing public sentiment is to prohibit child labor and to extend the period of required school attendance. _ In some of the manufacturing centers, certain types of handwork that can be done away from the factories are taken home by the employees. This home work is difficult for labor inspectors to supervise and consequently many women and_ children are engaged in this uncontrolled occupation. The work is usually tedious and poorly paid, but is frequently resorted to as a possible means of adding a few dollars to a meagre income, With a growing realization that thrusting women and children 544. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE into industry carries with it grave social dangers, has come to more general understanding that the community has a responsibility to care for families who are deprived of a normal income. Under some circumstances it is sound social economy for the state, or church, or private agencies to assist certain families, perhaps even for a long period of time. When such assistance is deemed necessary and wise, it should be based on a carefully thought-out plan, and should be adequate to meet the needs and standards of the family. Ref. Normal Life, Edward T. Divine, pages 111-116. ? QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Under what circumstances piety a family be deprived of its normal income? 2. Why is an inadequate income demoralizing to a family? 3. What type of employment is undesirable for women? 4, What might a woman do to add to the income without neglecting her family? 5. What are the chief dangers of having a child enter employment too early? 6. Why should some children have opportunity to attend school