[Vol9 | August 1922 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for October - Lesson IV - Social Service - The]

LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in October) THE HOME AND EARLY ADOLESCENCE The age from 12 to 18 In our study of moral leadership in the home, we have been concerned mainly with the general problems of providing proper environment and stimulating proper ideals. And our consideration has been confined to the lives of our small children. We must now direct our attention to the more specific problem of how to direct the lives of youth who are approaching manhood and womanhood. We shall consider this problem in four lessons. The present and following lesson will deal with the moral problems of the boy and girl from twelve to eighteen years of age. Then will follow two lessons with the period from eighteen to twenty-five years of age.  PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF EARLY ADOLESCENCE When the boy and girl passes from childhood to adulthood. There are certain very profound changes that take place physically as well as mentally. On the physical side this period is marked by very rapid growth, sometimes almost doubling the rate of growth within a single year. With many young people there is also a loss of energy, manifest sometimes in a disinclination to do strenuous work. Parents are apt to interpret this tendency as mere laziness. But before passing hasty judgment we should bear in mind that every human being has a limited amount of physical energy and if this is spent building up bodily tissues it is not available for activity. This is also the awkward period in the child's life. He seems not to have his growing limbs under proper control. This coupled with the tendency for certain parts of his body to grow more rapidly than other parts, frequently cause our youth considerable annoyance and embarrassment. But the most important physical change is of course the development of the sex functions. There is no function of the physical organism so important as that of reproduction, and unfortunately there is no function of the human body the nature of which is less understood. Some of the most serious vices develop during this early period because parents fail to teach their children the meaning and sacredness of the sexual organs. Nature's laws are God's laws and must be respected. These physical changes should be observed carefully by parents from the standpoint of both health and morals. MENTAL CHARACTERISTICS OF EARLY ADOLESCENCE These physical changes described above are accompanied by significant mental changes. This is the time of great emotional instability. Quoting from an educator of national reputation; "Fear, anger, love, pity, jealousy, emulation, ambition and sympathy are either now born or springing into their most intense life. Morally this is the time when the ideals are formed and when. Ideals clash. Because of this inner conflict, this stage is sometimes called the period of "storm and stress." This is the time, too, when there is a general religious awakening. From good authority we are informed that there are more religious conversions at this stage than any other time of life. This is the time when lasting judgments are formed and permanent sentiments established which makes it necessary for careful direction in both thought and feeling. If the child does not learn at this time to place a high value upon virtue he may never do it. If he is not impressed at this time of the great mis-  sion of religion and of his church he may always remain religiously indifferent. In all the organizations of the Church which deal with this period, we need the finest type of manhood and womanhood, mentally, morally, and spiritually, to guide them. THE BASHFUL AGE There is perhaps no time in the life of a human being when he suffers quite so much self-consciousness or bashfulness as during his early adolescence. He discovers suddenly that his feet and hands are large. He becomes aware of his awkwardness, and this feeling is intensified by a consciousness that everybody is observing him. Youths find it quite difficult to coordinate their movements as they do to control their emotions. Because of this situation many boys and girls prefer to spend considerable time alone; they hide themselves away from the eyes of adults and especially from the notice of the opposite sex. This period of self-consciousness may last only a few months, but it frequently last two or three years. During this period the youth needs the sympathy of parents and older brothers and sisters. Great precaution should be taken not to embarrass young people while they are passing through this stage and every effort should be made to get their confidence. There is no time in the life of an individual when he so needs the love of older people. He has come into a new social world, one to which he has difficulty in adjusting himself. He wants to ask questions and requires answers to them. He needs to know something about his body and its organs which heretofore concerned him very little. God is, at this stage in his development, endowing him with powers never before felt and the meaning of which he can hardly understand. The whole world seems to take on a mystery which calls for explanation. The duty of clarifying these things and pointing the way to a successful catreer rests upon father and mother. At this time parents should associate more freely with their sons and daughters. They should join with them in their activities. Every effont should be made to get into their werld of thought and emotions. If the young son or daughter falls in love at sixteen years of age, and many of them actually think they do, the parents should be the first to be told about it. And in place of ridiculing the young boy or girl, the parents should take time to talk to them sympathetically, advise and direct, but never laugh at or ridicule them. Also when the boy or girl experiences the changes of life the parents should be ready to ive the necessary information. Too often, however, the most important type of information is given to youth by immature individuals, or those who are not of the highest spiritual and moral type. This is the golden moment for moral education, and  parents too often fail to make use of the opportunity which this transition presents. References: Hall: 4 Practical Sociology, Chapter 13. Cope: Religious Education m the Family. Questions: 1. Name some of the physical characteristics of youth from 12 to 18 years of age. 2, What are important mental changes that take place at this time? 3, Give reasons why a bashful youth should not be laughed at. ' 4. When a child is inclined not to take his parents into his confidence, what is a sensible attitude for the parents to take? 5. Do you believe that the period from 12 to 18 years of age is the most appropriate time for sex education? Give your reasons. 6. What difficulties stand in the way of proper sex education? Are the difficulties insurmountable? 7. What special instruction should be given to the girls during early adolescence? What special dangers come into the lives of boys at this time? _ TEACHER'S TOPIC October I. Evils of Hallowe'en Pranks. (a) Respect for other people's rights and property a sacred obligation. (b) Seasonable and wholesome pleasures. ???? MUSIC "Music is an art in which the conception of the peautiful is in no sense based upon the physical world which surrounds us. Its power to evoke an inner dream of beauty is greater and more immediate than any of the arts. Music is a language which begins where the words end?a vision which is made clear long after the eyes can no longer perceive."