Vol. 35		SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1907. [MID-WINTER NUMBER]			No. 7


CONTENTS.
Emma Hale Smith.............................L. E. S. A.	49
Mother’s Work:—Maricopa Stake.................... 	50
	Morgan Stake.............................................	51
	San Luis Stake...........................................	52
Relief Society Report:—Box Elder Stake.........	51
Lucretia Mott.....................................................	53
In Memoriam.....................................................	54
Obituary.............................................................	54
F. Marion Crawford...................Lydia D. Alder	54
A Trip to England (Concluded)......Little Sister	55
Editorial:—The Relief Society..........................	52
	Great Events Transpiring...........................	52
Poetry:—Peace, Goodwill.....L. L. G. Richards	49
	To Aunt Em..................Josephine Spencer	51


PEACE, GOODWILL.
A kindly thought can never come in vain;
Yet thoughts soon die if left but to remain 
Unu[-]ed, inactive, clogging heart and brain;
Let me ne’er smother helpful impulse thus.
When Heavenly Father gives me generous
	thought,
Let me believe some blessing should be wrought,
For some one, somewhere; let the chance be
	sought,
And some poor, answered prayer made marvel-
	ous.

But should a thought un-Christlike and unkind,
Enter my soul, disturbing heart and mind—
Envy or selfishness, or both combined,
Such thought, or feeling, I would quickly kill.
It should not live to grow and to extend,
To make me injure or distrust a friend;
I would not voice it, all my thoughts must blend
With that blest angel chorus, Peace, Goodwill!

I love you, Dear Ones! Let my say it now.
I think of you when before Heaven I bow,
And ask that God all best things will allow
For each one’s present and eternal good.
My Dear Ones, let us in sweet union live,
Nor thoughtless speak, hearts are so sensitive;
What seems unfair let’s readily forgive,
And simply say ’twas but misunderstood.

And oh my Friends, I prize your friendship now!
I will not wait death’s touch on either brow;
If I have hurt you, kindly tell me how,
So I may prove that good was meant, not ill.
For sudden death today seems in the air,
A heart may cease it’s throbbings anywhere,
At any moment; Oh my soul prepare!
With all the world and Heaven hold Peace,
	Goodwill!
		L. L. GREENE RICHARDS,
January 1907.


[Column 1]
		EMMA HALE SMITH.
READ AT RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS’ MEET-
		ING PIONEER STAKE.
	There are many people who pass
through this life scattering rays of sun-
shine and strewing life’s pathway with
kind and thoughtful acts whose names are
seldom recorded in history.
	Among these might be recorded the
name of Emma Hale Smith, wife of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, and first presi-
dent of the Relief Society.
	The subject of this brief sketch was
born July 10, 1804, in Harmony, Susque-
hanna County, Pennsylvania. Her
father, Isaac Hale, was a well-to-do citi-
zen of that place. Of her early life we
are left to our own imagination. The

[Column 2]
daily duties of the eldest daughter of a
family of eight were presumably hers.
	In October, 1825, a young man, Joseph
Smith came to board at the Hale home.
He had been employed by Mr. Josiah
Stoal to assist in digging for a silver mine
in that neighborhood. Mr. Stoal had de-
sired the assistance of this young man be-
cause he had heard that he had certain
means by which he could discern things
invisible to the natural eye.
	While boarding at Isaac Hale’s home,
Joseph Smith began to pay his addresses
to one of the daughters of the family.
The parents of the young lady were very
much opposed to this. They were ac-
quainted with the fact that this young
man had proclaimed to the world that he
had seen a vision, that the Father and
the Son had appeared to him, and they
ignored the statement because their be
lief was that such things were done away
with. They thought they would be dis-
graced in the eyes of their friends if their
daughter should marry such a man.
	Emma Hale was 23 years of age, and
under the law mistress of her own ac-
tions, she made her own decision in favor
of the young man whom she had learned
to respect and love. January 18, 1827,
they went to the home of Squire Tarbill,
in South Bainbridge, Chenango County,
New York, and he performed the mar-
riage ceremony for them.
	Joseph Smith had confided in his
mother in regard to this important step
in life. His mother says: “Joseph called
my husband and myself aside, and said, ‘I
have been very lonely ever since Alvin
died, and I have concluded to get mar-
ried; and if you have no objections to
my uniting myself in marriage with Miss
Emma Hale, she would be my choice in
preference to any woman I have ever
seen.’ We were pleased with this choice
and not only consented to his marrying
her, but requested him to bring her home
with him and live with us.” Consequently
after their marriage Joseph and Emma
went to Manchester, New York State,
and liyed there that season.
	From the very first, persecution was
the lot of this family. Their friends
were few, but these few were true, they
being mostly members of his, Joseph’s,
own family.
	On April 6, 1830, the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints was organ-
zed with six members, Joseph Smith be-
ing the presiding elder. Emma Smith
being converted to the truth of the prin-
ciples advanced was baptized in June,
1830, but on account of persecutions by
mobs was not confirmed as a member un-
til August of the same year.
	From that time until the death of her
husband she honored him in his position
and assisted him in his great work of
ushering in the Gospel of the latter-days.
	In July, 1830, a revelation was given to
Emma Smith, through her husband, in
which the Lord told her His will in re-
gard to certain things. She was called
an Elect Lady, and her office was to

[Column 3]
comfort her husband in his afflictions,
with consoling words in the spirit of
meekness. To travel with him and be
his scribe, when he had no other; accord-
ing to the Spirit, she was to expound the
Scriptures and exhort the Church. She
was to make a selection of sacred hymns
to be used in the congregations of the
Saints, etc.
	This was a great honor to be thus re-
membered and instructed, and those who
were acquainted with her have testified
that during her husband’s lifetime she
lived up to the requirements of the reve-
lation. She was appointed, September
14, 1835, to make a selection of sacred
hymns, which duty she performed, by the
assistance of the Spirit of the Lord, to
the satisfaction of all, and up to the
present time they are rendered with feel-
ing and spirit in all the congregations of
the Saints.
	In 1833 the corner stones of the Kirt-
land Temple were laid and the dedication
of the building occurred March 27, 1836.
Sister Eliza R. Snow writes: “With very
little capital except brain, bone, and sin-
ews combined with trust in God, men,
women, and even children, worked with
their might; while the brethren labored in
their departments, the sisters were active-
ly engaged in boarding and clothing
workmen not otherwise provided for.”
Sister Emma in this trying time did her
part in this great work of rearing the first
temple built in this dispensation.
	The organization of the Female Relief
Society was commenced on the 17th of
March, 1842, and completed on the 24th,
with Emma H. Smith as President, Sarah
M. Cleveland and Elizabeth A. Whitney
Counselors, Eliza R. Snow, Secretary, and
Elvira A. Coules, Treasurer. This or-
ganization was for the relief of the poor,
the destitute, the widow and the orphan
and for the exercise of all benevolent
purposes. During the Missouri persecu-
tions the sisters of the Church had always
been ready to open their doors to the
weary traveler; to divide their scanty pit-
tance with the hungry, and from their
plundered and impoverished wardrobes
divide with the more needy and destitute;
but the opportunity to do this work in an
organized capacity had up to this time
been impossible and unthought of.
	As President of this Society, Sister
Emma was looked up to with respect and
reverence. They could follow her lead-
ership without fear. Her heart was filled
with goodness and generosity, not for a
hope of reward, but for true charity and
love. To all she was kind and consider-
ate and did everything in her power to
assist in the upbuilding of the society and
the attaining of the purpose of its organ-
zation. In the organization of the
branches of the Church and the trials and
persecutions, from within and without,
that her husband was subject to, they had
many homes among them we might
mention those at Harmony, Fayette,
Kirtland, Hiram, Far West and three
at Nauvoo. She was the mother of six


[Column 1]
sons and one daughter, to them she was
ever a kind and affectionate mother and
was untiring in her efforts to enhance
their comfort and pleasure, a great por-
tion of the time having to be both father
and mother to them Besides her own
children she took a pair of twins to raise
a boy and a girl. Sister Emma had given
birth to a pair of twins on April 30, 1831,
both of whom died. The wife of John
Murdock gave birth to a pair of twins the
same day and soon after expired. Sister
Emma toook the motherless twins in the
fond hope that they would fill the void
in her life occasioned by the loss of her
own.
	When made known and explained to
her she accepted the order of celestial
marriage, and in obedience to that law
gave her husband several wives, to whom
she was ever kind and they in return
loved and respected her.
	During the dreadful scourge of sickness
at Nauvoo in the first year of the settle-
ment of that place, she was considered
an angel of mercy, she was so untiring in
her efforts to comfort the sick; and her
presence was a solace to many in their
dying hour. There were so many in dis-
tress, that the Prophet and his wife com-
menced taking the sick into their own
home, with the view of taking care of
them more comfortably. This they con-
tinued to do until their home became so
crowded that they were compelled to
spread a tent for that part of the family
who were still on their feet, in order to
make room in the house for the sick.
	Their home was ever open to the aged
and homeless, a number making it their
permanent home and they were waited
upon and cared for with the greatest of
generosity and patience.
	Sister Emma at that time was indeed
an Elect Lady, one whom everybody
loved that got acquainted with her. It is
very fitting that the Relief Society should
take time to consider and reflect upon the
history of their first president. She had
the honor of being called to that position
by the prophet himself and held the posi-
tion during his lifetime and was every way
qualified for its duties.
	In time of peril she was a wise counsel-
or to her husband: when surrounded by
persecutions and trials she was ever ready
to give comfort and consolation; she ac-
companied him on many perilous journ-
eys in the nighttime, when only the tried
and tested knew of his whereabouts or
errand.
	When occasion permitted she enter-
tained his friends with charming grace,
for she was a lovely woman and a model
hostess.
	When the news was conveyed to her
that her husband had met his death at the
hands of the mob she was overcome with
grief, but bravely bore the burden.
	After the martyrdom of the Prophet
and his brother, the Patriarch, the Twelve
Apostles constituted the presiding Quorum
of the Church. In 1846 Brigham Young
led the saints to the West, where they
hoped to find a home free from mob
rule.
	There seemed to come over Emma
Smith a complete change when the ar-
rangements were made for the removal
to the West. She took no interest in
them, but rather preferred to remain in
her Nauvoo home. Those things that to
her had been most sweet were now most

[Column 2]
bitter. Those people in whom she had
trusted, she confided in no more.
	Some time after the death of the
Prophet she married again, but still con-
tinued to live in what was known as the
New Mansion House until her death
which occurred April 30, 1879.
	On the slope of the hill near the old
home several members of  the family are
buried. The broad Mississippi River
flows near on its way to the sea. In a
somewhat neglected and uncared for spot
is a grave over which lies a flat stone
bearing the inscription:
		Emma Biddamon,
			Born
		July 10, 1804,
			Died
		April 30, 1879.
					L. E. S. A.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MOTHER’S WORK
		MARICOPA STAKE.
Lesson 1—Life and its Responsibilities.
	Why are we here? We must someday
give an account for the way in which our
lives have been spent,

Lesson 2—Have an Aim in Life—that of
		making happy homes.
	Good cooking an important factor.
Good health another. Politeness and
courtesy at home are also important.
Count your blessings, but not your trials,
and you will find much cause for happi-
ness.

Lesson 3—Home, the Child’s World.
	Make the home beautiful. Encourage
family singing. Provide music of some
kind. Encourage the making of beauti-
ful things at home. Get tool boxes for
the boys, and make their room neat and
pretty as well as the girls’ rooms. They
will appreciate it and help to keep it nice.

Lesson 4—Nature Studies.
	Give each child a little plot of ground,
however small, and set of little garden
tools. Teach them to take proper care
of the tools, and to have a place to keep
them. Show them how to prepare a suit-
able seed bed and then teach them about
the germination and growth of the baby
plants, baby birds, etc.

Lesson 5—Our Children are Precious
		Jewels.
	A child’s right to be well born. The
duty of parents to their unborn children.
Pre-natal influencs. Loving them before-
hand. You can sometimes tell which was
an unwelcome child by its face. Too
many are “born tired.”

Lesson 6—Training our children.
	Be truthful and honest with them, al-
ways. Never deceive them to secure
obedience, or they will soon lose their
trust in you. Instruct them early as to
the sacredness of life, and the purposes
of God in allowing us to be fathers and
mothers. Make yourself a companion
and confident of your children, or they
will seek knowledge from impure sources.

Lesson 7—Story Telling a Means of Edu-
		cation.
	Overcome evil tendencies, not by pun-
ishment, but by continually directing the
child’s mind to something higher and no-
bler. As much as possible, let your sto-

[Column 2]
ries be of noble deeds and actions, and of
something that will show the folly of
wrong habits, such as selfishness, idle-
ness, wastefulness, etc.

Lesson 8—Preparation for the Future.
	We owe a duty to our children’s future
mates. Teach the boys to put their cloth-
ing, books, etc., away neatly, and thus
they will learn to be helpful, rather than
hindrances not only to their mother, but
to their wife when they get one; and
teach both boys and girls to use reason,
judgment and common sense in all things.

Lesson 9—Our Bodies are Temples of the
		Living God.
	Teach the children this, that they may
learn to keep them clean and pure. Teach
them the value of deep breathing, fresh
air and exercise, and of standing straight.
We are made in the image of God, and
should keep that image as perfect in form
as possible.

Lesson 10—The Sin of Gossip.
	“Judge not, that ye be not judged; for
with what judgment ye judge ye shall be
judged.” (Matt. 7:1.) Be not hasty in
condemning others. Speak of their good
qualities rather than their misdeeds. We
might do things that would be just as
wrong if we were placed in similar cir-
cumstances. Have some subject for dis-
cussion at sewing bees and work meet-
ings.

Lesson 11—Parable of the Ten Talents
		(Matt. 25: 14-30.)
	What talent do I possess, and do I cul-
tivate it? Patience, faith, cheerfulness,
the power to instruct or comfort others,
or anything that helps to make life better
and brighter is talent which should be
cultivated.

Lesson 12—Place of Worship is Holy.
	Teach the children to be quiet and or-
derly in the house of God. It is wrong to
let the little ones run and play in the
aisles, and for the older ones to whisper
and make a disturbance during services.
These things are displeasing to our heav-
enly Father and an offense to our friends
who visit our places of worship.
			CELIA A. SMITH,
		Cor. Secy. of Stake R. S.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	There have been so many notable oc-
currences and social functions during the
midwinter season that it would be quite
impossible to mention them all, but we
hope to give at a later date something of
an idea of a few of them, However the
society columns of the daily papers have
been very generous in this respect, and it
might be almost intruding upon the rights
of these good friends to give in brief what
they have done so well. Then this little
paper does not deal much with this sort
of thing editorially, except as a matter of
history. Therefore we ask our readers
and patrons to accept this apology for not
publishing now, parties in the grand old
Lion House that must yet be written up,
because of their historic value as a part
of the woman’s side of the “Mormon”
question social religious life.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TO AUNT EM.
There’s a poet who tells in delectable verse
Of the things we might part with and not be the
	worse
For the missing—his list running through the
	whole range
Of pleasures and treasures, of travel and change,
To end with a neat little rhyme of repining,
That whatever we part with—it can’t be our din-
	ing.
And his thought gave me thought inspiration to-
	day,
For the tribute we’ve gathered together to pay,
To our dear guest of honor, with heart and with
	lip.
In the viands we eat and the liquids we sip.

But not dining nor wining is that I must choose,
As the object we’d miss most if once we should
	lose.
Nor treasures of art nor of gold nor of gem,—
It’s name in our hearts is just known as “Aunt
	Em.”
For who in the years that have passed o’er us all,
Cannot in their vista her image recall?
Through scenes that have gladdened or saddened
	the days
Since the valley first dawned on the pioneers’
	gaze.
Through all their privation and hardship her hand
Was foremost to toil for the good of the land;
In the struggle for woman’s high honor alway
Her name as a beacon has lighted the way.

And over the murk of the battle has hung
Framed in laurels of pen and of deed and of
	tongue.
And not only the pathway of note and renown
Her footsteps have trodden—but better, adown
The still paths of sympathy sewn with sore hearts,
They have wandered, full oft giving balm to their
	smarts.
While her word has met young aspiration’s meek
	voicing
With hope, inspiration, and meed of rejoicing.
There are few of us here but have owed her some
	measure
Of hope, help or praise in our duty or pleasure.

So I say, in the lilt of the poet I borrow
(And I trust his dark shade may not brood here to
	sorrow,
At the poor imitation I make of his ditty)
That I cannot conceive how our state, or our city,
Our banquet halls, offices, homes or the street—
Could ever seem quite to our senses csmplete,
Could we not on the cheering conviction rely
That somewhere among them Aunt Em we should
	spy!
And since as we know, she is barely nineteen.
For years yet to come she will move in the
	scene,—
Three keen-witted years having chalked out the
	day
Of her birth, that among us she longer might stay.

So here’s to Aunt Em—with the hearts of the Club
In the liquid we drink when our glasses we rub.
May the Leap years increase,—and the almanac
	keep
A trick up its sleeve, that old Time may not reap
Her life with its scythe till he reaches the end
Of his flight—and in all of the years she may
	spend
May the Lord hold her fast in a loving caress
As we do—that’s one meaning you know of the
	“Press,”
				JOSEPHINE SPENCER.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The conference of the Relief Society
of Box Elder Stake was held on Tuesday,
November 13, 1906, at Brigham City
President Susannah P. Booth presiding.
Present of the stake presidency, Elder
Lucius A. Snow.
	After singing, prayer, singing again, the
roll was called, twelve branches were rep-
resented. Minutes were read and ac-
cepted.
	President Booth felt grateful to the
Lord for the privilege of attending this
conference; was thankful to see a good
attendance. Referred to the conference
at Salt Lake, the attendance there was

[Column 2]
the largest she had ever seen. Said
the present time reminded her of the
days of Nauvoo. Was thankful that she
had not lost faith. While at Salt Lake
she had the privilege of seeing the watch
that preserved the life of President Tay-
lor in Carthage jail.
	Pres. Julia Bingham reported Garland
Relief Society, where they were interest-
ed especially with the mother’s work.
Prest. Mary Fridehl of Elwood reported
that society, spoke of existing circum-
stances and of the changes made for the
winter; had 173 bushels of grain in gran-
ary: Sarah Fridehl reported the society
of Bear River City; spoke of their granary
and expenses; referred to some traveling
missionaries and of treating them kindly.
Prest. Ward of Willard felt proud to rep-
resent the sisters of Willard. Said their
attendance was 180; are building a new
granary; spoke on charity. The congre-
gation joined in singing a hymn. Prest.
Mary Tolman of Honeyville, reported
that society; said they had not many
poor, but had made quilts and carpets to
help pay for a building.
	Counselor Lucius Snow was pleased to
look into the faces of the sisters; they
were women who had passed through
many trials and hardships—the younger
people cannot appreciate what these eld-
er sisters had passed through; said he had
a great deal of respect for these sisters.
Spoke on prophecies and their fullfilment
and of the influence Sister Zina Young
had over him on account of her kindness
and her faith in God; he could not realize
it then as at the present time; no other
person impressed him as she did; spoke
of his dislike to the remark of not being
religiously inclined; made a suggeston
about lining granaries with tin.
	President Booth felt all had been blest
this morning.
	Adjourned after singing and benediction.
	Assembled at 2 p,m., President Booth
presiding.
	After the usual exercises, Prest. Love-
land of Deweyville reported that soci-
ety—34 members enrolled, average at-
tendance 20; the teachers are doing
good work, but they have no poor in their
ward, but had visited all the homes.
Prest. Hannah Harper spoke on the Word
of Wisdom; our burden is lightened when
we live our religion; referred to the
changes that had taken place since they
settled in these valleys.
	Pres. Thorne of Perry reported that
ward, also made remarks on the Word of
Wisdom. Counselor Julian Olsen of Man-
tua gave a report of their society and
excused the presidents’ absence; spoke
well of her; felt that they should all keep
the Word of Wisdom. A selection was
given by six of the sisters.
	Sister Emilia D. Madsen was grateful
for life in this wonderful age; spoke on
the Word of Wisdom; gave instructions
on mother’s work, said, “My whole am-
bition is to see my family good Latter-
day Saints;” she counseled the sisters not
to store poor grain and fix the granaries
so that the grain would not spoil; gave
instructions on many subjects pertaining
to the spiritual welfare of the people in
the ward. Counselor Mary Harding gave
her experience on the Word of Wisdom;
had visited Relief Society conference at
Salt Lake City; said, “Let us be kind and
helpful to one another.”

[Column 3]
	Stake Counselor Wm. B. Horsley re-
lated an incident concerning pork as diet;
spoke on apostacy and the fulfillment of
prophecy.
	Prest. Olen N. Stohl felt he was in
good company, and said, “These are
things for mothers to consider, for a
mother’s care does more for her boys than
anyone else; we cannot teach the children
things we do not practice ourselves;”
hoped that all the officers and teachers
kept the Word of Wisdom, so they could
teach it when visiting the people.
	Miss Hattie Wright gave notice of a
Young Ladies conference and invited all
the sisters.
	President Booth spoke of the time be-
ing too short for all to speak she would
like to hear; reminded the sisters of the
yearly donations.
	The conference adjourned until the sec-
ond Tuesday in June, 1907, after singing
and benediction.
				EMMA VANCE,
					Stake Secretary.


MOTHERS’ WORK.
		MORGAN STAKE.
	Lesson 1. The nature of miracles.
	Lesson 2. Nature miracles.
	Lesson 3. Healing miracles.
	Lesson 4. Mind miracles and the rais-
ing of the dead. Ref. Young Woman’s
Journal, Oct. 1906.
	Lesson 5. Faith and what it is. Ref.
Doc. and Cov.
	Lesson 6. The object on which faith
rests.
	Lesson 7. Show the effect which faith
produces.
	Lesson 8. Show what connection be-
tween correct ideas of the attributes of
God, and the exercise of faith in Him un-
to eternal life. Doc. and Cov.
	(The figures in the following lessons re-
fer to chapters.)
	Lesson 9. (a) The preaching of Lehi—
his departure with his family into the
wilderness, etc.—Nephi obtains the plates
of brass—Zoram returns into wilderness.
Ref. I Nephi, 1: 5. (b) Ishmael and his
family join Lehi. Lehi’s vision. Ref. I
Nephi, 7: 10.
	Lesson 10. (a) Alma preaches at
Mulek—Alma at Ammonihah—Amulek—
Words of Amulek unto people at Am-
monihah. Ref 1 Nephi 8:12. (b) Words
of Alma unto people—Amulek and Alma
cast into prison, and afterwards delivered
by the power of God—Zeezrom is healed
and baptized. Ref. 12: 16.
	Lesson 11. (a) Benjamin, king of the
Nephites—his reign and ministry—his
vision of the angel. Ref, Mosiah 1, 2, 3.
(b) His organization of the Church of
Christ—the reign of King Mosiah II.
Ref. Mosiah 4, 5, 6. (c) The return of
Zeniff to Lehi-Nephi—the reign of his
son Noah. Ref. Mosiah, 7, 8; 9.
	Lesson 12. (a) The origin of the Jara-
dite race—Babel—the departure on the
journey to America—Great faith of the
brother of Jared concerning the two
stones. Ref. Ether 1 to 6. (b) The
journey continued—foundation of a king-
dom—early kings—the days of Imer and
Akish. (Ref. Ether 6, 7, 8, 9 )
		ELECTA E. PORTER,
		BESSIE A. PORTER,
		SARAH J. DURRANT.
					Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy s x month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		FEBRUARY, 1907


[Column 1]
THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
MARCH 17, 1842 AND 1907.
“In Faith and Hope the world may dis-
	agree.
But all Mankind’s concern is Charity.”

	The seventeenth of March is an im-
portant date to all the women of the
Church of Latter-day Saints, as it marks
an epoch in their history that has been as
a guiding star to them all through the
many long years. It was this day in the
year, on Thursday, 1842, in the historic
city of Nauvoo the Beautiful, that the
great Latter-day Prophet Joseph Smith
organized the Relief Society, known now
throughout the world.
	Many times on the speakers’ platform
of the National Woman Suffrage Associ-
ation and the National Council of Women
Miss Susan B. Anthony has said,—The
representative from Utah can tell you.
more about the organizing of women than
any of you have ever heard; and she has
alluded in most complimentary terms to
our women being trained to speak with-
out papers, through our perfect system
of organizing and method of conducting
these affairs.
	This year of our Lord marks the sixty-
fifth round in the ladder of years, since
the day when a handful of women met
together in the Masonic Lodge Room in
Nauvoo for the purpose of being organ-
zed into a Society of which they could
only have had a very indefinite idea; but
in all probability the young Prophet
Joseph, himself, foresaw its greater de-
velopment, in the future of Zion, some-
thing of what we are aware today.
	The women who have taken part in
active service in this philanthropic move-
ment are numbered by many thousands,
and in fact thousands of members have
already passed behind the vail, and of
those who remain of the early workers
there are but very few now living; here
and there we read of some one in whose
obituary it is said, she was connected with
the Relief Society in Nauvoo, but only
one is now living who was present at its
organization; our own General President
of the Relief Society of the Latter-day
Saints’ Church, and that is our beloved and
honored Elect Lady—Bathsheba W.
Smith. Sister Jane S. Richards President
of the Rebel Society of the Weber Stake
of Zion is the only other member (of that
society in Nauvoo) of whom the writer
knows. If there are any others we should

[Column 2]
be very glad to have their names sent to
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
History records that during the two years
in Nauvoo, (before the troublous times
that caused the exodus,) the membership
increased from 18 on the day of the or-
ganization to 1,275, and therefore, it
would seem likely that some of this num-
ber might still be living.
	Volumes might be written of what has
been accomplished during the years since
that eventful day of the Society coming
into existence; and much has been done
materially as well as in many other ways.
Throughout the wards in all the Stakes,
and many of the missions of the Church
women have helped with means to build,
and furnish meeting houses, halls and
Temples. Notably the Logan Temple at
a time when work was stopped President
Jane S. Richards raised several hundred
dollars from the Relief Society in that
Stake to help continue the labor on that
sacred edifice, and it was a praiseworthy
effort.
	The sisters of the Relief Society so far
as we know are always on hand for good
works, however unpropitious the circum-
stances may seem to be; they have under-
taken to carry forward what has seemed
almost impossibilities.
	This day in the year 1907, should mark
a great forward movement for this Society
ethically, and let us all hope and believe
materially and spiritually.


[Column 1]
GREAT EVENTS TRANSPIRING.
“Weigh well your part and do your best
Leave to your Maker all the rest.”

	Time flies so rapidly that one can
scarcely keep pace with it in any of the
walks of life, and not only time but the
material progress made in all directions
is startling to say the least, there are so
many movements springing up that it is
quite impossible to keep posted on all
that are essential to every day inter-
course with affairs. Events are hasten-
ing on as well, and it is a common say-
ing nowadays, to what does it all tend.
Surely the last days, when all things are
to be gathered into one are here. Proph-
ecies ancient and modern are being ful-
filled before our eyes, and yet men and wo-
men will not see the truth, or the signifi-
cance of these conditions that stare them
in the face.
	During the past year more great events
and perhaps even calamities have trans-
pired seemingly than in any year previ-
ous, it is said there are more people, even
so, yet there are more inventions and a
better understanding of the elements of
life, and motion and activity; but the
Lord is working among the nations and
will bring about His purposes, and He
will accomplish His designs among the
great and mighty ones of the earth, as
has been said by Him and His word is
sure. He will indeed make the weak to
confound the wise, and the wrath of man
to praise Him.
	The everlasting Gospel is spreading in
lands afar off and women too are taking
part in the establishment of truth among
the various nations. It is a satisfaction
to realize that  women can render valu-
able assistance in carrying the Gospel to
those who sit in darkness.
	It is glorious to contemplate how com-

[Column 2]
plete in every department the work of
salvation for the human family is, and
that women have part therein, even in
the Temples of the Lord. Most women
all down the ages have realized the great-
ness of motherhood, and history tells of
the greatest men who give honor to their
mothers, and we talk much and with
pride of the mothers of the race; but in
the Gospel, as revealed in this dispensa-
tion through the Prophet Joseph Smith
women have had avenues of activity and
of spiritual growth opened for them, such
as no other women at any period of time,
so far as is known, have had vouchsafed
to them.
	Are we as women of Zion aware of all
that it means to have such an organiza-
tion as the Relief Society, whereby hun-
dreds of women whose lot seemed cast in
desert places as it were, have been
cheered and enlightened through the
efforts made in coming out to meetings,
and the interchange of ideas, thought and
actual effort brought to bear reaching out
for betterment along the lines of attain-
ment; an upward tendency of the mind,
giving exhilaration to both mental and
physical progress as well as the spiritual
culture always being maintained in har-
mony with the growth of the mind and
body.
	It would be very difficult to estimate
what this one great masterful organiza-
tion has done for the women of this
Church, and not alone for them but
the whole world of mankind has been
awakened through the light revealed from
heaven and revelations given through the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
	We are undoubtedly on the verge of
greater changes, greater events, and it
may be more startling phenomena than
ever before, and the wise and great
ones should be prepared, or at least take
warning by reading with an understand-
ing heart “the signs of the times.” The
days in which we are living, great as they
are, are pregnant with greater things;
and those who acknowledge God in all
things and worship Him in sincerity and
truth with His wisdom and providence
may be able to stand, although it will re-
quire not only obedience to divine laws
but the consecration of all one’s life and
talents to His service.


MOTHER’S WORK. 
		SAN LUIS STAKE. 
	Lesson 1. Unity in the home! What 
constitutes union. Results of union. Re-
sults of disunion. Religious unity. 
	Lesson 2. Parental influence. What 
should be the condition of a woman’s
mind in pregnancy. Contentment. Self 
control. Pure and holy thoughts etc. 
Also practice the strictest honesty, truth
fulness—having also the best environ-
ments that can be given. 
	Lesson 3. Moral development. Favor-
able environments—call forth kindly emo-
tions, and suppress evil thoughts; kind 
companions do most, as love begets love. 
Cleanliness, Good literature such as Juve-
nile Instructor, Youth’s Companion, Chil-
dren’s Friend. Ref. 1st chapt. of Prophet 
Joseph Smith by his mother, Subject, 
Home influence and example. 
	Lesson 4. Social Purity: “Blessed are
the pure in heart for they shall see God,”
Matt. 5 chap. 8th verse. Give your ideas 
in regard to Juvenile parties. The neces-


sity of Theatres, dances, etc. of a moral 
and elevating nature. Mothers should be 
their children’s confident in social pas-
times. Ref. Young Womans Journal Sept. 
1904, Doc. and Cov. Sec. 42-22-26.
	Lesson 5. Hygiene: What we eat and 
drink, Water as a food, Hints about wear-
ing clothes, Sleep and how to get it, How 
to keep well. 
	Lesson 6. Preparation for marriage: 
A girl should have a physically strong and 
well developed body, A knowledge of 
the preparation for good and wholesome 
food, some knowledge of what to do in 
case of emergencies, of cleanliness and 
economy in the household, and of her 
matrimonial duties and rights, etc. Ref.
Doc. and Cov. Sec. 89.
	LAURETTE M. PETERSON, 
			R. S. Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		LUCRETIA MOTT.
	If Elizabeth Cady Stanton was the
mother and the organizer of the woman
suffrage movement, Lucretia Mott was its
saint and prophet. Her name should be
familiar to this generation and passed on
to the next with loving reverence. Lucre-
cretia Coffin’s ancestors were amongst the
first settlers of Nantucket Island and there
she was born January 3, 1793. Tristram
Coffin left his English home with his wife,
Dionis, and five children in 1642. Having
organized a company to purchase the is-
land of Nantucket, he moved there in
1662 and became one of its chief men.
This third son, James, was the great-
greatgrandfather of Lucretia and among
his descendants were two admirals in the
British navy.
	There was a hint of woman’s rights
early in the family, for according to an
old chronicle, Mary Coffin, who married
Nathaniel Starbuck, was a Deborah
among the population and little of mo-
ment was done without her sanction at
the town meetings, where she took an ac-
tive part. She probably carried her point
because she seemed to represent her hus-
band’s wisdom. Usually beginning her
remarks with “My husband thinks,” or
“My husband and I feel,” but the women
of Nantucket were no mean-spirited folk.
For the most part their husbands were
seafaring men and in their long absences
the wives governed the families and the
estates, and if need be took up business
to add to their incomes. An historian of
the island says: “These circumstances
give women the ability as well as the taste
for that kind of superintendency to which,
by their prudence and good management
they seem to be in general very equal.
This ripens their judgment and justly en-
titles them to a rank superior to that of
other wives.” From such stock was Ben-
jamin Franklin descended; also Anna
Gardiner, enshrined in the annals of the
woman’s suffrage cause, and Anna Fol-
ger, Lucretia Mott’s mother, who married
her old playmate, Thomas Coffin, when
she was seventeen years old, and he had
just taken command of his first ship.
They were both strong and steadfast in
character and the mother was ditinguished
for great energy and keen activity. Lu-
cretia was the second of their six chil-
dren and was therefore made helpful at
an early age. One of her duties when
she was four was to draw the chairs in to

[Column 2]
“a sociable circle” around the fireside,
and this as a feature of hospitality be-
came one of her fixed habits as stated by
her biographer.
	One of the pleasant Nantucket customs
was “the veal feast” which always fol-
lowed the killing of a calf. There was a
family reunion of two days, on the first of
which the husband’s relatives and on the
second the wife’s were invited to the
feast; while to those who were unable to
come a portion of all the good things
was carried in dishes wrapped in large
napkins which had been provided for such
occasions as part of the bridal outfit.
This was only one of the many memories
of her childhood which Lucretia carried
away with her when she was twelve years
old and the family moved to Boston. She
always cherished traditions of the island,
and “Nantucket way” was household
law.
	At the age of thirteen she and a
younger sister were sent to a Friends
boarding school at Nine Partners, New
York. In Nantucket there had been but
two churches, the Presbyterian and the
Quaker, and to the latter an ancestress
of Lucretia had been converted in 1701
and had been a “mighty instrument” to
bring others to the faith. The Coffins
showed their fidelity to their principles
when they sent two of their little ones
of such tender years a distance from
which they could not return under two
years, even for a visit. The biographer
relates that communication was so dif-
ficult in those days that a baby sister
grew to be three months old before the
little exiles knew of its existence.
	James Mott was a teacher on the boys’
side of the house, but as the boy and girl
pupils were not allowed to meet or to
speak to each other unless they were
near relatives, it was only while visit-
ing his sister Sarah that Lucretia be-
came acquainted with her future hus-
band.
	Lucretia was so admirable a pupil that
she was made assistant teacher when she
was 15, at 16 was a regular teacher, with
the full salary of $100 a year and board.
	It was at this time, to quote her own
words, “that the unequal condition of
women impressed my mind. Learning
that the charge for the tuition of girls
was the same as that for boys and that
when they became teachers women re-
ceived only half as much for their ser-
vices, the injustice of this distinction was
so apparent that I early resolved to claim
for myself all that an impartial Creator
had bestowed.”
	While fellow teachers James Mott and
Lucretia became attached to each other
and when Lucretia joined her father in
Philadelphia, whither Mr. Coffin had
moved in 1809 to take charge of a large
business, James soon followed. Having
obtained a position in the business, he
and Lucretia concluded to “pass meet-
ing.” The first step was to obtain the
written consent of the parents, for this
had to be submitted to both the men’s
meeting and the women’s meeting, in
connection with the proposals of mar-
riage which had to be signed by both
parties. Two Friends were appointed to
inquire into the man’s “clearness for mar-
riage, and the same for the woman. At
the second monthly meeting the parties
were required to be present at their re-
spective meetings, and if the committees

[Column 3]
reported that they found no obstacle to
the marriage, the young people were at
liberty to proceed. Accordingly, on April
4, 1811, Lucretia Coffin and James Mott
were married “with a gravity and weight
becoming the occasion.” At this time
Lucretia, short, slight, dark and vivacious,
was just turned 18, while James, tall,
sandy-haired, shy and serious, was 23.
	The next six years brought financial
vicissitudes. in which Lucretia Mott
helped a little in shopkeeping and later
with her cousin, Rebecca Bunker, built a
private school.
	At 25 years of age Mrs. Mott first spoke
in public by offering a prayer, but such
were her gifts that she soon became
an “acknowledged minister.” This was
before the division among the Quakers
into orthodox and Hicksite, and when she
felt compelled to join the latter it brought
her “disownment” and many trials and
persecutions.
	At about the same time the views of
James and Lucretia Mott on the slavery
question led them to agree, that it was
wrong to in any way participate in the
profits of slave labor, and Mr. Mott ac-
cordingly gave up his profitable cotton
commission business. James was a ready
writer and from his admirable letters to
his parents and others, one may note not
only the facts in their mutual lives, but
the gradual growth in their mutual views.
Their granddaughter says that what either
wrote or said was meant for both, for
their agreement was almost perfect; each
seemed the other’s complement. The
contrast was very great between Mr.
Mott’s quiet ways and his wife’s anima-
tion. She liked sometimes to rally him
a little on his taciturnity. On one occa-
sion she entered a room where he and his
brother Richard, a counterpart of him-
self, were sitting in perfect silence. Mrs.
Mott said, ‘I thought you must both be
here, it was so still.”
	It was a great innovation in the estab-
lished custom of woman’s silence when
Mrs. Mott took part in the historic con-
vention when the American Anti-Slavery
Society was organized in 1833. Thomas
Whitson, writing of this occasion, said:
	“The other speaker was a woman. I
had never before heard a woman speak
at a public meeting. She said but a few
words, but these were spoken so modest-
ly, in such sweet tones, yet so decisively,
that no one could fail to be pleased.”
	There were also in this meeting Lydia
White, Esther Moore and Sydney and
Ann Lewis, but the women were not rec-
ognized as members of the convention
and did not sign the declaration of prin-
ciples adopted. Mrs. Mott made some
suggestions which were well received, one
of which was that the two last words in
this sentence, “We may be personally
defeated, but our principles can never be,”
should be dropped, which added greatly
to the strength of the sentence. The
Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Socie-
ty was formed almost immediately after
the American Society, with Esther Moore
as president. Lucretia Mott was its
president during most of its existence.
There were many stormy scenes and
some times meetings were broken up by
rioters opposed to abolition.
		(To be Continued.)
				Woman’s Journal,
	Boston, Mass.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	On December 24th, 1906, at the age of 96 years,
Frances Russell Evans, passed away at the home
of her daughter Mrs. Ann Brown of Murray, Utah,
She was the daughter of John and Ester Russell,
was born September 16th, 1810, at East Harptree,
Somersetshire, England.
	She embraced the gospel September 1849, in
Bristol, and emigrated to Utah a widow, in 1862.
The first year after her arrival she resided in Og-
den; then she removed to South Cottonwood, where,
with the exception of a few years, which she spent
with her son, W. H. Evans, in Salina, Sevier
County, she has ever since lived. She leaves one
son, one daugh er, eighteen grand-children and
one great-grand-child.
	In her own land her heart and home was ever
open to the Elders, many of whom will doubtless
remember her hospitality at No. 2 King Street,
Bristol, which was sometimes known as the Mor-
mon Barracks, where weekly meetings were held
for many years.
	Her life has been one continual struggle, full of
trials and hardships. One son died on the plains;
a daughter was drowned shortly after their arrival
in the valley. Her other son was a soldier in the
British army; but this brave little woman determ-
ned to buy him off, that he might gather to Zion.
This she accomplished but through some mistake
he reinlisted. Again she worked by the day, often
walking from Cottonwood to the City and back
again after her 1abor, to obtain the means to again
release him. On his arrival in Utah, with one of
her grand-sons to accompany her and with a loaf
of bread tied in a handkerchief she walked to Og-
den to meet him because she could not afford to
pay her fare.
	For many years she has been blind and latterly
deaf as well, which virtually shut her out from the
world. However, all through life she carried a
cheerful countenance and a heart full of gratitude
for her blessings, and especially for the kindness
of her children. The simplest of food was all she
asked and a clean white apron was her most ela-
borate adomment.
	Her funeral services were held in the Grant
Ward, December 27th. Bishop Wm. W. Mackey
presiding. The other speakers were: Gustave Ol-
sen. Robert F. Neslen, John H. Kelson and John
G. Kelson; Sister Ruth M. Fox also spoke a few
minutes.
	At last the long journey is ended,
		The kind weary hands are at rest;
	The sad darkened vision has opened,
		On the hopes and joys of the blest.

	The tottering steps are now nimble,
		The spirit is free as the air;
	Her robes are as white as the snow-drift,
		Her countenance beaming and fair.

	All gone are the sorrows and hardships,
		The worry for something to eat;
	The sacrifice, planning, and saving
		To make the short slender threads meet.

	But sweet are the smiles of the angels,
		Who guarded her all the way through;
	Who knew of her faith; her ambition
 		That all whom she loved might be true.

	And tender the voice of the Father,
		As He said to the Registrar: “write
	Her name in the book with the great ones
		And crown her with glory and might.”
							RUTH M. FOX.


OBITUARIES. 
	Sister Rachel Mitchell Helm of Mill Creek Ward,
died at her home, October 4th, 1906, she was a
faithful member of the Relief Society and an active
worker as a teacher for many years.
	She was always firm in the principles of the
gospel, was liberal to the poor and a comfort to
those who mourn.
	Truly we miss her from onr midst. Although
her sickness has been of that nature which confined
her to home, the name of Aunt Rachel was known
far and wide and she was loved for her noble and
pure life.
	She was self-sacrificing having the manage-
ment of her family and the business of the farm
in the absence of her husband while he performed
two missions.
	By her request the Sisters held meeting at her
home when she had an opportunity of speaking
and bearing testimony to ber knowl dge of the
gospel, which she had received from her youth
having been born in the everlasting covenant.


The day before she died one of the blessings of
the gospel was attended to wherein she rejoiced
and felt comforted.
	We did not realize that her time on earth was so
short, but she died as she had lived a faithful and
true daughter of our Father in Heaven and her
reward is sure
	She was the loving wife of Brother Andrew D.
Helm and the devoted mother of five children.
Husband and four children, one son and three
daughters, survive her, and from personal knowl-
edge we feel they are striving to put in practice the
teaching of th ir departed mother.
	Sister Helm was born at Salt Lake City, July
20th, 1855. Her parents were Elder Benjamin T.
Mitchell and Lovina Mitchell
	The funeral services were held in the Mill Creek
Ward house Saturday, October 6th, where many
relatives and friends m t to pay their last respects
to the dear departed. Bishop J. C Hamilton pre-
sided over the services. Appropriate music was
rendered by a select quartet.
	The Sister speakers were Elizabeth Snedaker.
Frances H. Hanson, Nellie S. Cornwall and Mar-
garet M. Spencer; each spoke of their love for
sister Helm.
	Several of the brethren spoke of her noble life
work and her devotion to her religion. Beautiful
floral emblems covered the casket, after the bene-
diction by Elder W. C. Winder a long line of car-
riages followed the remains to the Mill Creek
cemetery, where the grave was d[-]dicated by bishop
James C. Hamilton.
	The pallbearers were Bej. T. Helm, Rov An-
derson, Daniel Mitchell, Charles Mitchell, Edgar
Mitchell and Elmo Mitchell.


One more of our faithful sisters has been gather-
ed home, she has passed from death unto life, she
had every thing in her beau[-]iful home to make
life desirable where she lived in the midst of beau-
tiful flowers The Lord’s will be done.
	Sister Josephine Osterman-Cramer, beloved wife
of Christopher Cramer past away in her 51st year.
She was a devoted wife and mother, leaving hus-
band, four sons, and many friends to mourn her
loss
	She was a faithful member in the Relief Society
of Mill Creek Ward, was very liberal in her dona-
tions for the poor. The day before her death she
sent a donation to the Society.
	She had been in delicate health for some time.
President Mary B. Hamilton and her aids had
visited her often when she was comforted and re-
joiced exceedingly. She was a most lovable wo-
man, a lady in every sense of the word.
	We as members of the Relief Society mourn her
loss but not without hope in a glorious future for
her, her good deeds will follow, she will meet
her reward  We also extend our sympathy to her
sorrowing relatives and friends
	The funeral services were held in the Mill Creek
Ward house December 2nd, 1906. Bishop James
C. Hamilton presiding. Many sympathis ng rela-
tives and friends met to pay their last respec in
this life. Amongst those who spoke of her noble
life was President Mary B Ham lton, President
Anthon H. Lund and brethren who had known
her from childhood. A quartet from Salt Lake
City rendered sweet music, one of the brethren
singing the hymn “O My Father” The floral
emblems were beautiful showing the respect in
which she was held.
	After the benediction was pronounced the mourn-
ers in the eight coaches taking their place the cor-
tage took its departure for the Salt Lake City
cemetery, where the remains were laid to rest.
					FRANCES H. HANSON.
					AMELIA T. CARLISLE.


[Column 1]
		F. MARION CRAWFORD.
	F. Marion Crawford was born at the
Baths of Lucca, Italy, August 2, 1845,
son of Thomas Crawford, the American
sculptor, and nephew of Julia Ward Howe.
Was sent as a boy to St. Paul’s school,
at Concord, New Hampshire. Return-
ing to Europe he was at Cambridge Uni-
versity from 1870 to 1874, and for several
years studied philosophy and the lan-
guages at Heidleburg, the Polytechnicum
(Carlshruhe), and the university at Rome.
Visited India for the purpose of perfect-
ing his knowledge of oriental languages
and mysticism, and assumed the editor-

[Column 2]
ship of a newly established newspaper at
Allahabad, capital of the northwest prov-
inces. This venture proving unsuccess-
ful, he came to America once more, and
passed the academic year of 1880-1 at
Harvard in a course of Sanscrit and Zend,
with Prof. C. R. Lausdman, receiving a
diploma from the university. At this
period he contributed to periodicals a
number of reviews, dealing with political,
social and economic philosophy. His atten-
tion was turned to fiction by his uncle,
Mr. Samuel Ward of New York City, to
whom he related some of his experiences
in the Orient, and who advised him to
make them the basis of a novel. “Mr.
Isaacs” appeared in 1882 and was imme-
diately successful. Mr. Crawford resided
in New York City and Boston until 1884,
after which he made his home at Sorren-
to, Italy, and devoted himself entirely to
literature. His other works are Dr.
Claudius, 1883, “To Leeward,” 1883, “A
Roman Singer,” 1884; “An American Po-
litician,” 1884; “Zoraster,” 1885. Tale of a
“Lonely Parish,” 1886; Saracinesa;” 1887,
“Paul Patoff;” 1887 “With the Immort-
als,” 1888; “Saut Iloas Mazio’s Cruficix,”
1887; “Saut Iliasia;” sequel to Lauvania,
1889; “Grufrustia;” 1889. Contributed a
national hymn to the Centennial, at
Philadelphia, 1887.
	It is said that while relating some of his
experiences during his travels, his uncle ad-
vised him to write them up, get a pub-
lisher and thus turn them to account.
Mr. Crawford having had his Harvard ex-
perience, was only in his early twenties,
when the financial disasters of 1873
brought destruction to his mother’s large
fortune, thus throwing him very unex-
pectedly upon his own resources. He
launched cut into journalism, and visited
the countries of Europe, though Italy
was his home as near as he possessed one.
He strayed to India and edited a news-
paper in the land of the Hindoos. He
took pleasure in its editorial columns to
blackguard theosophy and Madam Blav-
atsky, also the doctrine of reincarnation.
	This enterprise proving unsuccessful,
he came to New York, writing his first
novel at Chister Place, then a final trip
to Italy, where he has since resided near
Sorrento, with his wife and children.
	The writer of the Saracenisca, said he
wrote a book in twenty-five days, broken
only by Sundays, of 150,000 words, and
that in his own manuscript, without the
aid of even a stenographer. This would
horrify Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, and
many others who think six months about
the right time. He says he manages it
by living in the open air, roughing it
among the mountains, and going long
trips with the sailors in their smacks.
	These three books have a charming
story running through them, making com-
plete pictures of patrician life in modern
Rome, and the economic conditions which
surround it. Beginning with Saracinesca,
through Saut Iliaco, to the just completed
Don Orsino, they detail the history of
one of the noblest and most ancient
houses of Roman nobility, namely the
“Saracinescas.”
	Almost without thinking, at the close
of reading these works we find that we
have lived, with one or two exceptions,
among the nobility, in ducal palaces, on
grand estates, and have attended “First
nights,” at Embassy balls. Being a Catho-
lic in religion, Mr. Crawford was in sym-


[Column 1]
pathy with the surroundings in Rome,
this afforded him a knowledge and an
open sesame to many things that must be
sealed books to Protestants. 
	Many of his characters are more or less
pictures of his friends. 
	These records taken together form
a brilliant and true explanation of Ro-
man society, and politics as they
existed in the last struggle of the Papal
power for supremacy. The first of the
series introduces us on the scene of that
conflict in the year 1865, when the great
Cardinal Antonelli and the Holy Office
were still all powerful in Rome, in the
exercise of their rights of espionage, when
says Mr. Crawford, the Second Empire
was in its glory. Mr. Emile Zola had
not written his “Assomeir,” Count Bis-
marck had just triumphed in his mon-
archy, Sadiwa and Sedan yet unfought,
Garabaldi had won Naples and had Cavnor
had said, “If we did for ourselves what we
did for Italy, we would be great scoun-
drels.” In the year 1865 people crossed
the Alps in carriages, and the Suez Canal
had not yet been opened; the first At-
lantic cable had not been laid, Pius X
reigned as the Holy See, Louis Napoleon
was the idol of the French, President
Lincoln had not been murdered—is any-
thing more needed to separate those
days from these?
	The estates in the country are pic-
turesque, with their great castles dating
back to the Dark Ages, and their feudal
laws. One American critic has said,
“Mr. Crawford has written the best and
the worst American novels, and they were
the “Saracinesca” and “An Ameri-
can Politician;” whether true or not,
he is certainly very dashing in style,
in method subject to no school, but show-
ing a most remarkable, romantic heritage. 
He is dignified as a lover, of which he
writes a generous share. Languages were
his passion at school, and what was his
surprise to read one of his own stories in
a Russian publication, and he says he en-
joyed it, too. At another time one ap-
peared in the Danish dialect, yet they
were published without his knowledge or
permission. They are read in almost all
European languages. He has produced
eighteen novels in ten years. He has a
natural eloquence and facility, which en-
ables him to write rapidly, his sentences
requiring but little revision. His periods
are pointed and brilliant, and have much
grace of rhythm. For instance, the fol-
lowing sketch of a valley in the lower
Himalayas: “The gulf that divides you
from the distant mountain, rises like a
huge bite, taken bodily out of the world
by some voracious god; far away rise
snow peaks, such as were not dreamed of
in your Swiss town; the bottomless val-
ley at your feet is misty and gloomy, with
blackness, streaked with mist, while the
peaks above shoot gladly to the sun,
and catch his broad side rays, like ma-
jestic white standards. Between you, as
you stand cautiously against the hill be-
hind you, and the wonderful background
far away in front, sails a strange vision,
scarcely moving, yet not still. A great
gold shield, sails steadily in vast circles,
sending back the sunlight in ivory
tints of burnished gold. The golden
eagle of the Himalayas, hangs in mid air,
a spot of polished metal to the eye, paus-
ing some time in the full blaze of reflec-
tion, as ages ago the sun and the moon
[-]tood still in the valley of the “Aialon,”

[Column 2]
too magnificent for description as he is too
dazzling to look at.”
	Of Mr. Crawford it may be said, some
of his observations, are so shrewd and
well said that they may almost rank as
aphorisms; for example: “Women like to
be understood before they speak, and the
grosser intellect of man, seldom more
than half understands them when they
have spoken.”
	“Can it be hard, he says, to get a wo-
man’s love,” then changes presently and
says, “Truly it is less easy than is supposed,
for the heart of a woman who does not
love, is like a desert, when the wind blows
over it, and there are neither tracks nor
land marks. And I am wandering in the
desert like a man seeking lost camels.”
From the story of “Khalea.”
	“What is a beautiful woman without
love?” he asks. 
	“She is like a garden wherein are all
kinds of rare flowers and much grass, and
deep shade, but in which a man cannot
live, because nothing grows there which
he can eat when he is hungry.”
	Sometimes he is good in dialogue, but
sometimes weak. By some authors he is
thought to be the most versatile and
vivacious of modern writers. 
	He is an American though born on
Italian soil. Any critical estimate of Mr.
Crawford’s rank, depends much on the 
cast of mind of the reader. 
	A polished man of the world his writ-
ings are free from jarring notes. His
style has personal quality and he possesses
the gift of throwing a romantic halo
around his personages, their speech is
crisp and bright, developing character
without strain or undue effort at wit. 
	Mr. Crawford must take a high rank
among modern novelists. He excels in
his description of the human heart. His
great breadth of view, keen intuitions
and artistic feelings, making his works of
interest and value, perfectly pure, with-
out taint of vulgarity or coarseness. 
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		A TRIP TO ENGLAND.
			(Concluded.)
	Leaving Guernsey for Southampton,
thence to London to visit my husband’s
relatives, not having heard of them for
some time, we had a little hunting to do;
however we found a niece in Angerly
Road, Upper Norwood, Surrey, near the
Crystal Palace. They were both suprised
and overjoyed on seeing us, and we had
to stay there and partake of their hospital-
ity, then they took us to Poplar, where
my husband found a sister and a brother,
who treated us equally well, and two
more sisters in Gravesend. Here, as at
the other places, we had to rest awhile.
Our sister and her husband took us some-
where every day. One of the grandest
sights was the Resherville gardens. Every
night there are performers acting, but the
illuminations were so grand and flowers so
artistically arranged, it is claimed these
are the most beautiful gardens in the
world. I think it was in 1904 that the
Duchess of Albany was invited to visit
these gardens. The gardener had so
planted the flowers in their variety of
colors in such a way as to read, “Wel-
come to the Duchess of Albany.” It is
needless to say that she was highly de-
lighted. Then we went to Mill Park. I
thought what a nice place for a picnic.

[Column 2]
St. George’s Church is here at Graves-
end, where Pocahontas was buried; you
know she came to England and embraced
Christianity, and married Thomas Wolfe.
She was received by Queen Anne, wife of
James the first. A small monument
erected to her memory is here, bearing
the date March 26, 1617. Well the sights
are too numerous to give in detail, and
then there are the chalk mines. I do not
wish to tire the readers of the Exponent
so we will leave our friends at Gravesend
for a while and take the train for Chat-
ham, where we have another brother
and nephews.
	Here exists a little band of Saints, very
small; the first we saw was Elder Orlando
Bateman and Elder Jno. Saville his part-
ner. They were holding afternoon meet-
ing at 136 High St. at Brother Abery’s
house, though they had just commenced
to hire a school hall, where we took our
brother-in-law and nephews to hear our
Elders preach. When I saw and heard
these young men standing in the hall ex-
plaining the principles of the Gospel, I
thought how proud their mothers would
be if they could only peep in just then.
The congregation was composed mostly
of children, but the seed sown in these
young minds may sprout, and who knows
what the harvest will be after many
days.
	While visiting our brother and family
at this place, we visited the hospital.
This hospital is a sample of many in Eng-
land. This building was erected and en-
dowed by a generous donation, then after-
wards is kept up by the working men’s
subscriptions which they pay as regularly
and as systematically as they receive their
wages, and for every guinea they sub-
scribe they are privileged to give a recom-
mend to one inside patient or two outside
patients, for one treatment. These rec-
ommends are sometimes given to non-
residents and to those who are out of
work or cannot afford to pay for advice
that they may receive either surgical aid
or medicine. Before leaving Chatham our
brother Harry and wife took us to
Rochester Park and church yard, there
we saw some lovely flowers and shrubs.
While we were passing the Rochester
Cathedral it was evident that an official
marriage ceremony was about to take
place, as the gentlemen were all dressed
in full uniform and they did look grand.
While here at Chatham, or close by, we
walked down to see the Jezreelite tower,
or temple. This building is constructed
of iron and brick and was designed by its
founder to shelter the lady of the faithful
when the world was to come to an end.
But the work did not progress beyond
the fifth floor, after 44,000 pounds had
been expended, the finances came to an
end and the structure was seized by the
contractors under the order of the court;
the last we heard of it was that it had
been turned into a warehouse.
	Then we run up to Gravesend to take a
peep at the good folks, then go on to Pop-
lar, called at a photographer’s art gallery,
had quite a conversation with him; he
belonged to a physical culture society, did
not drink stimulants nor tea or coffee.
When some people up here refuse these
beverages they are told, “Well, you must
be very religious.” A young man living
in Teton Basin, and who staid all night
at our place, once said his mother was
very religious, she would not drink tea or
coffee, I told him here were infi-


[Column 1]
dels and people not professing any relig-
ion who will not touch these drinks sim-
ply because they found them to be hurt-
ful to the body. Some quit drinking them
by taking advice from their physicians
and when the Lord inspires his servants to
tell us they are not good, certainly we
ought to believe them.
	When you are at Poplar and you are
walking from East India Duke Road to-
wards Manchester Road you meet a num-
ber of people about 5 o’clock or a little
later coming from work. They are near-
ly all girls and women who work in fac-
tories. There is a match factory here and
a rope factory and others. We will not
tire our readers about all we see in Poplar,
we will leave Poplar and visit a niece in
West Kensington, West London, but be-
fore getting there we must not forget the
tube at Poplar and Subway our sister and
her husband took us through the tube or
subway. This is a very long tunnel dug
and built up with brick in arched shape
under the River Thames; you can hardly
believe when you are walking in these
tunnels that the river is flowing above
you; but I fancy some one is asking how
do you get down in these tunnels? Well
they let you down by an elevator, called
a lift in England; when you get to the
other end of the tunnel you find another
lift, this time you are lifted up instead of
being let down. Our brother, Thomas
Miskin lives here at Poplar, he and his
family were very entertaining, we spent
several evenings listening to their music
and singing.
	Well we will not go to Crisp Street
Market tonight; we will take a train or
underground train, which is run by elec-
tricity, they call these trains an American
invention and while we are visiting our
niece in West Kensington we go in this
underground train to Museum Station
then we go to the British Museum. It
will take too long to tell all we saw there
and we did not see half. We were three
days however at the reading room: you
have to get a recommend to go to the
reading room, and what a large room, so
spacious, so great, so complete, hundreds
go there and sit from day to day reading
and writing with no fear of being dis-
turbed. Another day we went to West
Kensington’s natural history Museum
where we saw all kinds of stuffed animals,
some wonderfully large, others very, very
small. We spent all day looking at many
curiosities, and then we did not see near
all there was. However another time we
went to Madame Trossou’s waxworks, how
real, how true like mankind this work of
art indicates nature. Then we go to the
big wheel, you can get a beautiful view of
the city in the wheel which is so large
you can scarcely feel the motion. Then
there are all the sights of Earl’s Court,
the diver with his diving suit, shows how
men can dive under the sea for lost treas-
ures then there is the flying machine
boats, I could not be persuaded to take a
ride up there, too high up in the world
for me; then the giddiness I would exper-

[Column 2]
ience when the boats go so swift, round
and round, up in the air. No thank you,
I will not accept a ride up there, I noticed
thercountenances of those who came
down was anything but pleasant, and I
never knew any one to take a second ride
up there, one was quite enough in a life-
time.
	Sunday comes and we take the train
and visit headquarters, 37 Farleigh Road,
Stoke Newnington, London. At the first
of the month we find quite a number of
noble young men gathered, perhaps to re-
port and receive instructions. Brother
Hoops, who is presiding, introduces us to
Brother Young; this young man is a
grandson of that great prophet who led
the Saints up to this Rocky Mountain
country, showed the people how to exist
and work in such a way that they would
not starve in this new country, taught
them how they could live happily with
the blessings of the Lord. We were also
introduced to one of President Joseph F.
Smith’s sons, who was there on a mission,
Brother Booth and many others whose
names I cannot recall just now. We
went with them to Finsbury Hall to thei
Sunday night meeting, where we had the
pleasure of hearing Sister Nannie Tout
sing, as also her sisters and father. The
Holy Spirit was there manifested. the
same Gospel preached as at home. May
the Lord bless these missionaries, I know
He will.
	Next day we run back to Poplar to con-
tinue with our genealogical work. When
Saturday comes our sister and her hus-
band take us to Crisp Street Market, here
are stands inside and outside, where you
can buy anything and everything to keep
house with and furnish a good table: fresh
fish, all kinds of fresh meats and mer-
chandise of every description, and if you
wish to go on further, you will find your-
self in Petticoat Lane. Most of the vend-
ers here are Jews and nearly all of them
women. People say they are tricky, and
if the story I heard is true, they must be,
These second hand goods very likely are
clothes pawned by people out of work;
some sell them for drink, others when
they gamble too heavy are obliged to part
with these things to save themselves from
starving or to pay their rent.
	Well we are getting ready to return
home hunting through Woolwich and
Greenwich for genealogy, also visiting the
Miskins at 1100, who, though not closely
related, treated us very kindly.
	I believe the time is coming when we
as a people will be better understood and
therefore will be treated better; but I sup-
pose there will always be misunderstand-
ings even amongst ourselves. I will just
mention a little instance. A sister went
to Salt Lake to do work in the temple
and visit relatives, and happened to ex-
press a wish to see an Elder and his wife,
whom she had known before coming to
the mountains, another sister volunteered
to drive her up to see these friends. But
time passed and when she was near ready
to return home she reminded the sister of

[Column 3]
her promise, when a niece exclaimed,
“You people out in the world fall in love
with our Elders sometimes.” She was
rather taken back at this remark, and
thought perhaps her motive was misunder-
stood, so she returned home without tak-
ing this visit to the lady missionary to
whom she had felt drawn towards for her
lady-like ways, her dignified appearance,
and quiet disposition; but she thought,
“Never mind, that will not prevent us
from appreciating those who brought us
the Gospel, we will always revere, not
only one but all who point to us the way
to eternal life.
	Now we are home again taking up
the duties of every day life. The prom-
ises that were given us in our parting
blessing, that we would allay prejudice
and return home in better health, have
been verified.
			LITTLE SISTER.
		(Concluded.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	The annual statistical and financial re-
ports of the Relief Society for the year
1906, from January 1st to December 31st,
have not all been received. They should
all have been sent in by the 15th of Feb-
ruary to the General Secretary, Mrs. E. 
B. Wells, Templeton Building, Salt Lake
City, Utah. (Please send immediately!)


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Preparations for the National Peace
Congress to be held in New York, April
14 to 17 are progressing. The Executive
Committee has held a meeting at the
City Club, New York. Prof. Samuel T. 
Dutton was chosen chairman and Prof. 
Robert E. Ely secretary. Committees
were chosen on Finance, Local Arrange-
ments, Publicity, etc. Arrangements
were made for working men’s meetings,
meetings with the Germans, Italians and
other citizens of foreign birth, with school
children and in the churches; also a Gen-
eral Advisory Committee of at least one
hundred prominent citizens, friends and
leaders of the arbitration and peace move-
ment in different parts of the country. 
	The Congress will open with a great
musical consecration service on Sunday
evening, The Executive Committee, the
Committee on Local Arrangements and
the New York Peace Society are making
a vigorous campaign of preparation for
the Congress. Sunday evening meetings
are being held in various churches, and
have been large and enthusiastic. A din-
ner was lately given to the editors of the
city by the New York Peace Society. All
interested organizations throughout the
country are urged to send a delegate or
delegates to the Congress. The N. A. 
W. S. A. has appointed Mrs. Carrie
Chapman Catt as its delegate.
	The National American Woman’s Suf-
frage Association assembled in its 30th
Annual Convention, in the state which 
gave Abraham Lincoln to the service of
the nation, reaffirms the principle enun-
ciated by Lincoln, who said in 1836, when
a candidate for the Illinois Legislature
“I go for all sharing the privileges of the
government who assist in bearing its bur-
dens, by no means excluding women.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

