Vol. 35				SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, OCTOBER, 1906			No. 4


CONTENTS.
Bathsheba W. Smith ........................ E. B  W.	25
The Lawn Relief Society Social............. R.S.	26
Mothers’ Work..................... Alberta, Canada	26
The Sleeping Girl.................... Maria Francis	27
Relief Society Reports—Parowan—Wasatch	27
In Memoriam..................................................	30
R.S. Reports—Mari[-] [-]a—Nebo................ 	3
	St. Joseph—Oneida................................	32
Editorial—P esident Smith’s Visit Abroad —	
	Relief Society Program — The G neral
	Conference of the Relief Soceity............	29
	Recept on—U W. P. C. ...........................	30
Visit of Missionaries.......................................	27
Poetry—Emily Well Beloved...... L. D. Alder	25
	To Sister Emily Hill Woodmansee..........
	......................................... Ruth May Fox	25
	What Might Have Been.... Ellis R. Shipp	27


EMILY WELL BELOVED.
The harp touched by a master hand
	Thrills with its melody;
The heart can understand its song—
	Divine its ectasy,
From infinite to infinite
	It soars throughout all space;
Its chords vibrating truth inspire,
	Reveals our God—our race.
The gift of song—poetic song—
	Of minstrelsy and love,
So pure and O, so delicate,
	Inherited above,
Prophetic is—and prophecy
	Reveals what is to be;
By it are life and death discerned—
	It scans futurity.
More finely strung, the instrument
	O’erwhelming is its pain,
So shall its joy be infinite,
	A fulness shall obtain.
Waft, ye soft winds the melody.
	Play on the harp strings where she lies,
For by C rist’s victory she lives,
	And sings in paradise.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


TO SISTER EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Dear sister of song, we laid thee to rest,
’Mid music and flow’rs, whilst the comforting
	guest
		From the home of the angels
		Poured forth promise and blessing
		On those who were weeping,
		Thy memory caressing,
	For the life thou hadst lived.
Blessed sister of song, so modest and sweet,
So dainty in person, so friendly to greet;
		While thy spirit was welcomed
		With joy and rejoicing,
		Thine own words, so gifted,
		Here the prophet was voicing,
	And the life thou hadst lived.
Sainted sister of song, true and faithful wert thou,
And brave as the bravest of women I trow
		In defense of thy people—
		Thy pride and thy glory;
			The foes of the kingdom
			Yet shall yield to thy story,
	In the life thou hast lived.
					RUTH MAY FOX.


[Column 1]
[photograph of Bathsheba Smith]
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
	The picture presented to our readers
here is familiar to those living in Utah
and adjacent localities, but not to those
of our people afar off.
	The great organization of the women
of the Church, the Relief Society, of
which Sister Bathsheba W. Smith is
President, numbers over 35,000 members
in this and other lands, these women are
not all familiar with her face and fea-
tures, or with her respective character-
istics; and it does seem essential that
those who know of her position, stand-
ing at the head and front of this mam-
moth society, should have some knowl-
edge of her life and her magnificent quali-
fications.
	There has been a brief biographical
sketch of Sister Smith given in our col-
umns and in books written by our people,
but there are interesting things to tell of
foremost women aside from generalities
of where and when they were born, and
whom they married, and how many chil-
dren were born to them.
	To give some idea of the Relief Society
President to those who have not had the
pleasure of being closely asssociated with
her, a sort of pen picture, we had better
begin with her Virginian origin, its tend-
encies, or one might say, inherited attri-
butes. The innate pride of her birthright
is ever apparent, both in her manner
and appearance and she is conscious to this
day of its great value, and I maintain that
her home life in childhood, and home
training and environment were such, as
strengthened her powers of endurance in
all the best qualities, that fit and prepare
one to do battle vigorously with evil, and
to withstand temptation, all along life’s
highway. So we find this womanly wom-
an possessed of all the cardinal virtues
that so adorn and become the wife and
the mother in the home, and in society.
So far as it is possible I desire to bring our

[Column 2]
sisters into close proximity with her re-
markable and striking personality.
	In her young womanhood she was much
accustomed to outdoor exercise; horse-
back riding was to her an enjoyable pas-
time; and the woods and fields were fa-
miliar places of enjoyment where she
could wander freely and contemplate na-
ture’s most charming and delightful scen-
ery, drinking into her ardent soul all the
delicious sights and sounds that abound so
profusely in the beautiful Southland; the
songs of birds and the fragrance of flow-
ers and vines. The young maiden de-
veloped into a perfect figure, tall and well-
proportioned, with ease of manner and
grace of carriage, such as seems most na-
tural to the Southern type, a trifle lan-
guid when not employed in such exercise
as called forth strenuous activity. In the
home of her parents there was no rigid
restraint, but perfect freedom to do right
and live uprightly.
	The Gospel seemed natural when it
came to be preached and explained to her
family, and the lady of whom we are
writing knew the truth of the divine mes-
sage that came, as soon as she heard the
sound thereof, and was ready for baptism.
She left her home without regrets, for
she had found that which was “above all
price.” Happily she journeyed to the
the gathering place of the Church in
Missouri, but there experienced hardships
beyond comparison with anything of
which she had ever heard or read; finally
after severe struggles that taxed all her
strength of endurance, yet never waver-
ing in her faith and devotion to her reli-
gion, she arrived at “Nauvoo the beauti-
ful,” where a new life openeed up for her,
full of that true love and close compan-
ionship that surpasses all else in human
existence. She had sometime previously
met the man of her choice, the one that
in her own bosom she knew was to be of
all others, always her guiding star, but
now she was chosen, and became his wife,
united to him in marriage by the Prophet
of the Lord. The very fact of this eternal
union, the extent of which she had not
then dreamed, was happiness supreme,
beyond all comparison. Time with all
its changes in family life, through drifting
from one place to another, westward until
she reached the Rocky Mountains with all
the attendant trials and  hardships of the
journey, never blighted the loving fidelity
in her soul, though her loyalty and con-
stancy were severely tested.
	In her home all the homely domestic
arts and crafts and economies one might
say, found rightful place and practical
exercise; in addition to regular household
routine, were carding, spinning, dyeing,
weaving, cutting and making of house-
hold articles and wearing apparel. Her
early training in the far-off Virginia home
made her an adept in all these difficult
processes. Sister Bathsheba, as she is
often called by her friends, has always
dressed well, even in the days of home-
spun; she becomes her clothes, and if
possible she kept put away in her ward-
robe appparel for great occasions. In


my mind I have a picture of her in a neat
straw bonnet trimmed with white satin
ribbon, long strings tied in a bow under
the chin, and a dainty muslin dress and
lace scarf; always stately and somewhat
majestic, a woman one would be sure to
notice more that casually.
	One wonders in looking backward
to those days of early pioneer life,
how the women of that period had the
courage to face the situation, and adapt
themselves to the conditions and sur-
roundings withal, and to mingle in the
social festivities and amusements that
were part and parcel of the primitive life
in the settlement of these valleys.
	Unfortunately I have only given you a
faint glimpse of the woman, whose place
entitles her to the honor of “The Elect
Lady” in the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in which she stands
pre-eminent among women.	E. B.W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE LAWN RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIAL.
	The Relief Society of the Second Ward
scored a complete success in its Progres-
sive Lunch party at Richfield recently.
The affair was held on the lawn of I. K.
Wright, which had been placed at the
disposal of the Society.
	The lawn was brilliantly lighted with
electric lights. Tables were arranged on
the lawn. Each table was laid for ten
persons. The progressive part of it con-
sisted of the lunch being served in five
courses, one at each table. At first table
the course was served and the second
course at the next table and so on until
the fifth and last one was reached. The
first ten at table were allowed ten min-
utes in which to dispose of the tempting
viands offered at this table when the din-
ner bell summoned them to move to the
second, when ten more took their places
at table number one. This continued
during the evening.
	The menu was all that could be desired.
The most delicate viands were served and
the ladies who prepared it are deserving
of all praise for the daintiness that char-
acterized it.
	The band paraded Main street to at-
tract attention to the lawn social after
which it discoursed music on the lawn
while the lunch was being served. The
mandolin and guitar club was present and
rendered several pretty selections. Jona-
than Lloyd of the local music firm had
an Edison Phonograph stationed on the
lawn and did excellent service in enter-
taining the people. In addition to the
above musical talent a splendid program
of vocal and instrumental music was ren-
dered. Prof. Wilcox rendered a violin
solo, “The Mocking Bird” with variations.
This was so well rendered that an encore
was demanded, and Mr. Wilcox respond-
ed with Schuman’s “Traumerie,” which
was also splendidly done. Miss Eva
Stewart sang a beautiful solo entitled “A
Dream,” which showed the beautiful tone
quality of her voice to perfection. Regi-
nald Brain gave as a piano solo a selec-
tion from “Faust,” which was well re-
ceived. Mrs. Lulu Peterson sang “Merri-
ly I Roam” in splendid style. Mrs Elea-
nor Heppler played “The Old Oaken
Bucket” with variations. The selections
were appreciated. Hazel Baker sang
“Adeline” very effectively with Miss

[Column 2]
Wright as accompanist. A piano solo,
“Gondolera” by Nevin, was nicely ren-
dered by Miss Sadie Seegmiller. By spe-
cial request John Hood sang “The Cat
Came Back,” and to a prolonged demand
for an encore he responded with “Didn’t
He Ramble.” Both songs suited the
audience.
	When this program was completed the
mammoth pie was brought forth. This
was made in a wash tub and each par-
ticipant for the small sum of ten cents was
allowed one piece of the pie with all that
was attached to the end of the string.
Some of the things the pie contained
caused much merriment.
	A prize had been offered for the most
graceful eater and at the close of the
evening’s enjoyment Mr. Hayes made the
announcement that Samuel Chidester had
been awarded the prize. The booby
prize went to two of Richfield’s popular
young ladies.
	The entertainment was designed to se-
cure funds for putting a new roof on Mrs.
Johnson’s cottage, the lady is a widow
and in distressed circumstances. The
receipts will fully cover the expense of
this laudable object. The Relief Society
certainly made a hit with their lawn
social.					R. S.


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK
		ALBERTA STAKE.
Exercise I.—Parents, the Child’s first
	Teacher.
	Children to be taught the principles of
the Gospel, Doc. and Cov., page 250, com-
mencing at the 25th verse. Watch and
pray always, lest ye euter into tempta-
tion. III Nephi, page 518, 18-22. Teach
the child to pray, and how to pray, and
show the necessity of its being brought
up in the light and truth. Doc. and Cov.
page 251, 33; page 331, 36, 40. Show how
and when obedience, faith and repent-
ance, should be taught in the home to
bring the best results.
Exercise 2—Moral Development.
	Certain conditions are indispensable for
the protection of children from immoral
practices. Cleanliness of mind and body,
fresh air, wholesome food and healthful
exercise, constant parental watchfulness.
Good literature. Pure and elevating
home influence. Proper associates. Men-
tion some of the best books for children.
(Juvenile Instructor, Youth’s Companion,
Louisa M. Allcotts Works, St. Nicholas,
Stories of Animal and Plant Life. Show
the necessity of keeping the child’s mind
on objects of an elevating nature. Find
some references, Dr. Maeser “School and
Fireside.”
Exercise 3.—Truthfulness a Protection
	Against Other Sins.
	Truth is the rock foundation of every
good character. Truth is courageous, it
is always power. Lying is the sacrifice of
honor. Show that a child that has been
trained to speak the truth will develop
moral courage.
Exercise 4.—Keep the Sabbath Day Holy.
	Keep the Sabbath day to sanctify it.
Deut. 5, 12-15. Isa. 58, 13-14. Doc. and
Cov., page 224, Sec. 68: 29. Tithes and
offerings. Malachi, chap. 3. Doc. and
Cov., Sec. 119. Teach our children the

[Column 2]
law of tithing and offerings, by example
as well as precept. Show results of so
doing.
Exercise 5.—Courage for the Duties of
	Life.
	Show the necessity of having a knowl-
edge that our course in life is in accord-
ance with the will of God, that our faith
in Him may be exercised unto life and
salvation. Show also that sacrifice is
necessary to obtain certain blessings.
Doc., and Cov. Sec. 6; Psalms, 27: 14,
31: 24; James II: 14-23.
Exercise 6.—Parents should Live the Gos-
	pel.
	How grand is the organization of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. Show that the various institu
tions are for the training of the young in
religious and moral culture, and that all
should give these organizations their sup-
port and derive the benefits therefrom.
Explain why example should be coupled
with precept. Show what is expected of
the parents that the children may get a
religious training. Show that peace and
contentment will abide in the home where
families live the Gospel.
Exercise 7.
	He most lives, who thinks most, feels
the noblest, acts the best. Seek to live
above the vain and foolish things of the
world. Doc. and Cov., Sec. 88: 121.
Study and learn. Doc. and Cov., Sec 88:
118; Prov. 1: 5, 16-21; John 6: 45.
Exercise 8.
	Show gratitude for blessings received,
and acknowledge the hand of God in all
things. Doc. and Cov., Sec. 59: 21; Job
1: 21; 2: 10. Whatever principle we at-
tain unto in this life, will rise with us in
the resurrection, and every blessing re-
ceived from God is through obedience to
His laws. Doc. and Cov., 138: 18 21.
Exercise 9.—Word of Wisdom.
	Given for a principle with promise. Doc.
and Cov., Sec. 89: Sec. 88: 114; 1 Cor.,
13th chap.; Doc. and Cov., Sec. 88: 125.
Prepare exercise and give views on these
subjects.
Exercise 10.—Women’s Privileges.
	Revelation given to Emma Smith. Doc.
and Cov., Sec. 25. Promises to those who
serve the Lord. Doc. and Cov., Sec. 76:
5-10.
Exercise 11.—Ethical Duties in the Home.
	No pleasure can excel the joys of a
happy home. Parents should exercise
proper control over the child. Never
punish in anger, teach the better way.
Do not always bring the children’s faults
before them, but commend their good
deeds, that their minds may build upon
goodness rather than evil. Show that
children’s rights should be respected by
their seniors and by each other. Teach
our children Loyalty to God, country, laws
and home.
Exercise 12.
	Give exercise on some woman, whose
life is recorded in the Bible.
				MARY L. WOOLF,
						President.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WHAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN.

As down the vista of departed years
We see amid the mists of falling tears,
The many opportunities now flown,
In self reproach we sigh and vainly moan.

We think of tender words we might have said,
	Of  loving, noble deeds we might have done,
Of wayward lives to right we might have led
	Of sins we might have checked when just begun.

We know foundations strong we might have laid,
	For grander structures here we might have
		reared,
Time-lasting friendships too we might have made,
	By bonds of sacred fellowship endeared.

We might have planted too, fair rosy bowers,
	Wherein to rest in age the weary form.
And scattered on the way sweet-scented flowers,
	And plucked from wounded hearts the pieicing
		thorn

We might have soothed the weary, troubled soul,
	Implanted seeds of holy faith and trust,
Uplifted hearts to pure diviner goal—
	To reach the shrine of One forever just.

Now to our yearning souls may God reveal.
This nobler life—sublime and grand ideal;
To seek for aye, eternal righteousness.
Not all for self—but other lives to bless.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


THE SLEEPING GIRL. 
	I have been very much interested in 
reading in the Woman’s Exponent Vol.
X. Mrs. Hannah T. King’s account of the
“Sleeping Girl, Sarah Carter.”
	It would seem almost incredible, were 
it not that her character was so well 
known, and her veracity undoubtable. It 
is strange that her account is so incom-
plete. She makes no mention of the 
manner in which nutriment was adminis-
tered, or how the natural functions of the 
body acted, without which life for seven 
years would be a sheer impossibility.
	I have searched numerous books on the 
subject in the library and there is no rec-
ord of a case of so long duration. 
	There is a disease called by the French
“Malade du Sommal.” It may be called 
in English “Insensible sleep,” lasting for 
days, weeks or even months. I should 
think the case of Sarah Carter was some-
thing of this description, though it usually 
terminates in a convulsive seizure or
death.
	Certain it is that many have been bur-
ied alive in this state which can be easily
mistaken for death. 
	Albert Olston says: “To many it is a 
display of weakness to acknowledge that 
there is anything beyond the ken of
man’s intellectual possibilities.”
	For instance telepathy is a power but 
little understood at present. 
	Just how one mind can send a detailed 
account of incidents to another mind at a 
distance we do not know, but it will 
doubtless be revealed to future genera-
tions. 
	So with trance or what doctors prefer 
to call catalepsy. It is a suspension of 
sensation and volition. 
	The subjects are generally women of a 
highly nervous temperament, catalepsy is 
but little understood owing to the manner 
in which morbid physical and psychical 
conditions are mixed up. In all such 
cases, there is a remarkable weakness of
of mind and will. 
	Many of the recorded cases are little 
worthy of credit. 
	When of long duration it has been 
doubted if it can exist without some de-
gree of deception


They have always proved to be cases 
open to very great suspicion. 
	But it would be wrong to class them all 
under the head of pure impostures. As in 
many instances it has been acknowledged 
that food has been administered by the 
stomach pump and the patient has recov-
ered, but only to a life of hysteria and 
extreme nervous debility. But, as 
Shakespeare says: “There are more
things under heaven and earth than are 
dreamed of in our philosophy,” and
one day all will be made plain to us all.
			MARIA FRANCIS.


VISITS OF MISSIONARIES.
	Stakes visited by missionaries from the
General Board of the Relief Society, dur-
ing the month of September, 1906.
	St. Joseph Stake, September 7, Friday,
Conference at Thatcher, Arizona, Sisters
Sarah Jenne Cannon and Emma S.
Woodruff.
	Granite Stake, Conference at the Stake
Tabernacle, September 11, Tuesday,
Sisters Julia P. M. Farnsworth and
Annie Wells Cannon.
	Maricopa Stake, September 12, Wed-
nesday, Conference at Mesa City, Ariz-
ona, Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and Sarah
Jenne Cannon.
	Weber Stake, September 13, Thursday, 
Conference at the Relief Society Stake 
Hall, Ogden, Sisters Phebe Y. Beatie and
Priscilla P. Jennings.
	Juab Stake, September 14, Friday,
Conference at Nephi in Tabernacle, Sis-
ters Ellis R. Shipp and Carrie S. Thomas.
	St. George Stake, September 17, Mon-
day, at St. George Conference in Taber-
nacle, Counselor Annie T. Hyde and Sis-
ter Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
	St. John’s Stake, Arizona, September
17, at St. John’s, Conference in Taber-
nacle, Sisters Sarah Jenne Cannon and
Emma S. Woodruff.
	Snowflake Stake, September 20, Thurs-
day, at Snowflake, Conference, in Taber-
nacle, Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and
Sarah Jenne Cannon.
	Parowan Stake, September 21, Confer-
ence at Parowan in meeting house, Sisters
Ellis R. Shipp and Phebe Young Beatie.
	Kanab Stake, September 25, Confer-
ence at Kanab, in meeting house, Sister
Margaret A. Caine. Panguitch also visit-
ed, Conference postponed indefinitely on
account of President’s illness.
	Salt Lake Stake, September 29, Satur-
day, Conference in Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Hall, Sisters Annie Wells Can-
non and Elizabeth S. Wilcox.
	South Sanpete Stake visited on Sep-
tember 7, Friday, by invitation. Confer-
ence held at Ephraim, in Ephraim meet-
ing house, Sister Annie Wells Cannon.
	This Stake had been visited by appoint-
ment in May.
	Tooele stake Relief Society conference
was held in Grantsville, Thursday, Octo-
ber 18th, in the meeting house. Sisters
from General Board were Sisters Sarah
Jenne Cannon and Margaret A. Caine.
	Iosepa colony was visited Friday, Octo-
ber 19th by Sisters Cannon and Caine ac-
companied by Sister Alice R. Woolley,
president of Relief Society of Tooele
Stake. The meeting of the Relief Society
was held in Brother Waddrup’s house.
There was a full attendance of the Ha-
waiian sisters.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS
		PAROWAN STAKE.
	Relief Society conference of the Paro-
wan stake was held in the L. D. S. Tab-
ernacle in Parowan, September 21st, at
2 p. m. President M. E. Ollerton pre-
siding. Sisters Phebe Y. Beatie and Ellis
R. Shipp, representing the General Board
of the Relief society. An officers’ meet-
ing followed this session, and an evening
meeting which was fairly well attended;
judging by the reports and spirit of the
conference, harmony and the spirit of
Relief Society work prevail throughout
the stake. The talks of the visiting sis-
ters were much enjoyed, though no spe-
cial instructions were given.
	The Relief Society work is progressing
and being better understood and appreci-
ated in the local organizations.
	I am in the eternal cause of truth,
		SISTER E. CRANE WATSON.
			WASATCH.
	The annual conference of the Relief
Society of the Wasatch Stake was held
in the Stake Tabernacle, Heber City,
June 15, 1906. Prest. Anna R. Duke pre
siding. The attendance was good. Sis-
ter Elizabeth Murdock gave the address
of welcome. Was pleased to see so many
sisters and brethren with us, etc.
	Minutes read and reports were given
showing the sisters to be doing all they
can along the Relief Society work. Sister
Elizabeth Wintoch delivered a lecture on
“The Sabbath Day Fasting and Prayer.”
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry, one
of the General Presidency, spoke a short
time. She gave words of praise to the
sister who gave the lecture, it was so
carefully prepared and to the point. She
urged the officers to giye the sisters some-
thing to do and they will become inter-
ested. “They will love to come to meet-
ing. Love comes through service. Teach
children to do for you and they will love
you and respect you, and you will have
their confidence at all times. We should
do right, that through our actions we will
teach others to do better.”
	Song, Gladys, McMullin.
	Sister Julina L. Smith hoped the sisters
would not forget the aged and sick people;
advised them to take a little lunch along
and make sunshine in their lives. Mothers
should teach their sons to do their por-
tion in waiting upon themselves, looking
after their clothes, etc., and also spoke
upon the principle of marriage.
	Recitation, Ella Morton.
	Sister Zina W. Card felt that if we put
into practice all that had been said we
would be much better. Parents should
cultivate patience and self-control, and
then teach the children the same.
	President Joseph R. Murdock endorsed
all that had been said and hoped the sis-
ters would take it to their ward and home
and profit therefrom.
	Singing, “Come let us anew.” Bene-
diction by Patriarch Nymphas C. Mur-
dock.
	P. S.—The sisters visiting conference
had to return home on the 2:15 train,
therefore only one session was held. The
Stake officers, visitors and ward officers
were entertained at the home of Coun-
selor Lovisa Alexander, where a delicious
lunch was served by the Relief Society
officers of Heber.
			SARAH K. DUKE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
[-]ount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		OCTOBER, 1906


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT SMITH’S VISIT ABROAD.
	One of the noteworthy events of the
year, which we take pleasure in recording
in these columns, is the visit of Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith to the Saints in
foreign lands. It is a new departure in
the history of the Church, no other Pres-
ident while occupying that high position
has ever visited the foreign missions.
	The Saints in the countries visited
must have been overjoyed to be able to
see, and hear, and shake hands with one
so universally beloved, and one whom
they reverence, as called of God to lead
His people Israel in this important pe-
riod of time in the last dispensation.
	It is true that the President needed rest
from his arduous labors, and it is verily
true that a change is often a great benefit
to both mind and body; nevertheless, he
was undoubtedly urged by his friend,
Brother Nibley, to accompany him, as he
was anticipating going abroad with some
members of his family. Blessings on
Brother Nibley for making it pleasant
and possible for President Smith to have
this lovely sea voyage, and meet his sons
in the mission field, and the thousands
of Saints whose hearts have been glad-
dened by his presence among them.
	President Heber J. Grant, now in
charge of the European mission, would
naturally be greatly delighted and bene-
fited by the visit, and by traveling in the
Presidents’ company to the conferences
visited, and the intimate association this
labor implies.
	It will certainly be an attractive part
in the President’s life-history that he will
recall with genuine satisfaction in future
years, even if he should never visit these
countries again.
	Presumably the journey is fraught with
incidents that will result in greater im-
provements and lasting benefits to the
Church, which has now become not only
more numerous than formerly, but of
vastly greater significance in many re-
spects, in its progress and advancement
temporally as well as spiritually, not-
withstanding the opposition arrayed'
against its followers and disciples. That
the work is spreading in power and influ-
ence must be apparent to all who have
eyes to see or hearts to perceive.
	During the journey homeward the
places visited must have been exceedingly
interesting to all the party who traveled
together, but especially so to President

[Column 2]
Smith himself, as they were so closely
connected and interwoven with his own
individual life.
	The Smith cottage in Vermont, the
birthplace of the Prophet Joseph and
where stands the marble monument
erected to his memory (his uncle and the
bosom friend of the Patriarch of the
Church, his own father), and now through
his instrumentality all made beautiful in
its restoration, and a place where those
who visit may recall the scenes and mem-
ories of the past of this most wonderful
man among men. Then the grove where
the boy Joseph Smith, in his simplicity
seeking after truth, offered his first pray
er. One cannot attempt to enter into
the feelings of the man now filling the
position his uncle first occupied, while he
was standing as it were upon hallowed
ground, calling up the scene enacted
there so many years before. It must
have been an experience in the soul
such as no pen can portray. Only those
who feel most intensely the sacredness of
immortal beings could have any idea of
the sublimity, and heavenly solemnity of
such an occasion.
	Farther on he stood upon the Hill Cu-
morah, sacred as the stronghold of the
golden plates from which the Book of
Mormon was translated. Another soul-
inspiring place, full of wonderful memo-
ries, which the party also visited, was
Kirtland, Ohio, the first gathering place of
the Latter-day Saints and where the first
temple erected in this dispensation was
built by the Saints in the midst of trials
and poverty, but wherein many great man-
ifestations were given that proved the
Lord accepted the offering. Only a few
of the men and women are living today
who were eye witnesses in those gather-
ing of the Saints in that then holy tem-
ple, to testify of the power of God made
manifest on many solemn occasions when
the Saints were assembled for public wor-
ship, having come together fasting and
praying; sometimes with the Prophet Jos-
eph in their midst, and more often his
father, Joseph Smith, Sen., the first Patri-
arch in the Church; and his revered
mother, Lucy Smith, of blessed memory.
	From Kirtland to Illinois the party
wended their way, visiting the jail at
Carthage, which must have awakened a
variety of feelings and emotions inexpress-
ibly sad and replete with such memories
of the terrible tragedy that took place
there, as to be scarcely endurable by those
whose loved ones had been so cruelly as-
assinated in cold blood. We draw the
curtain upon this scene, the writer her-
self knows what a pall of blackness hung
over the city of Nauvoo, when the news
of the martyrdom came crushing like a
thunderbolt in the midst of their sorrow,
at the imprisonment of the man so be-
loved and honored.
	The visit of the party to Nauvoo was,
let us hope and believe, not only that it
was enjoyable, but profitable, and a fore-
runner of something favorable for the
Church in that once famous “City Beau-
tiful.” It is assuredly an omen for good
—could not possibly be otherwise—to
hold a conference there once again; that
fact of itself is significant.
	President Smith must have been grati-
fied with this incident, among many
others, in the visits he made here and
there to people and places of historic cel-
ebrity. The Saints everywhere, and es-

[Column 3]
pecially those who were expelled from
that city under such unaccountable cir-
cumstances, will be delighted, to know
that the spirit of the people has changed
towards those who were so persecuted in
the past, and that they would be glad to
have them come and dwell there again. 
	President Smith must have had won-
derful, and in many instances, almost
heart-rending emotions in visiting the
scenes of his early childhood—we can
scarcely say his boyhood days, for he
would only have been seven years old
when he left Nauvoo at the time of the
exodus. Tender and soulful reminis-
cences must have awakened childish rec-
ollections, as he viewed the places where
such events had transpired of which “the
half can never be told.” Words fail to
express a tithe of the story. Here and
there the historian collects and compiles
some of the most stirring episodes, but
they give only a faint idea of the reality.
	In writing this article trying to depict
some of the emotions that must have
swayed the bosom of at least one of that
party while visiting Nauvoo, on the shore
of the Mississippi, one is reminded of
Longfellow’s song “The Bridge”:

	‘And like those waters rushing
		Among the wooden piers,
	A flood of thought came o’er me,
		That filled my eyes with tears.
			*	*	*	*
	For my heart was hot and restless,
		And my lfe was full of care,
	And the burden laid upon me
		Seemed greater than I could bear.
			*	*	*	*
	Yet whenever I cross the river
		On its bridge with wooden piers, 
	Like the odor of brine from the ocean
		Comes the thought of other years. 

	And I think how many thousands
		Of care-encumbered men,
	Each bearing his burden of sorrow,
		Have crossed the bridge since then.”

	President Smith could not possibly
have refrained from thinking of the
Saints crossing the river from Nauvoo to
the Iowa side in their exit from their be-
loved homes, no doubt he remembers his
own peculiar sensations as a child and the
attendant circumstances.
	Again Longfellow:

	“This is the place. Stand still, my steed,
		Let me review the scene,
	And summon from the shadowy past 
		The forms that once have been.”


RELIEF SOCIETY PROGRAM.
	For the semi-annual conference Octo-
ber 4, at the Salt Lake Assembly Hall,
presented by President Bathsheba W.
Smith, Thursday, October 4, a. m., Pres-
dent Bathsheba W, Smith presiding.
Hymn, “Come Let Us Anew.”
Opening prayer...................................................
	.............General Sec’y Emmeline B. Wells
Hymn, “Guide Us, O Thou Great Jehovah.”
Greeting..............................................................
	.....General President Bathsheba W. Smiith
Response.............................................................
	............Ellen L. S. Udall of St. Johns Stake
Report..............Gen. Treas. Clarissa S. Williams
Presentation of general officers..........................
	...............................Gen. Sec’y E. B. Wells
Practical Education ............................................
	...............Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry
Soprano solo, “My Western Home.”...................
	.............................................Evan Stephens
		Lizzie Thomas Edwards.
The Subject, “The Home,” will be led by Emily
	A. Holbrook of Utah Stake.........................


“Home Amusements,”...............Emily S. Richards
“Prayer in the Home...............................................
	  .........................Arvilda H. Dixon, Big Horn
“Harmony,”.................Susan Grant of Davis Stake
“Thoughts on the Home Relations,”.......................
	............................................Prest B. W. Smith
Song, “Home Sweet Home.”..................................
	....................................Lizzie Thomas Edward
Hymn, “Lord Dismiss us,”
Prayer............................................Minnie H. James
	Afternoon, 2 p. m
Hymn, “Come, Come ye Saints.”
Prayer..........................................Dr. M. C. Roberts
Hymn, “Praise to the Man.”
“The Companionship of President John Taylor
	and the Prophet,”.............................................
	.........................Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde
“The Seer”............................................John Taylor
			Prof. Charles Kent.
The subject, “Relief Society,” will be led by Gen-
	eral Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams.
“Best Methods of Disbursing Relief Society
 	Funds,” discussed by Armeda Snow Young
	of Granite Stake and Henrietta Wright of 
	Sevier.
“The Teacher”.........................................................
	.......................Celestia Young Pack of Summit
“The Member”........................Sarah Jenne Cannon
“The Missionary”................Hattie Bennion Harker
“The Meeting”.............................Carrie S. Thomas
“The Lord is Mindful of His Own”........................
............................................Mrs. H. M. Dinwoodey
Benediction, Hilda H. Larson, Jordan.
	Testimony meeting Monday, Oct. 8, place to be
announced later.
	Opening testimony............................................
		......Jane S. Richards and Julia P. M. Farns-
		worth.
	Reception to representatives from Stakes Thurs-
day evening. Place to be announced later.
Addresses..................................................................
		Julina L. Smith, Emmeline B. Wells and
		Priscilla P. Jenninge.
	Officers’ meeting, Assembly Hall, Oct. 5. 4:30
p. m.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE GENERAL CONFERFNCE OF THE
		RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The semi-annual conference of the Re-
lief Society was held on Thursday, Octo-
ber 4, the day previous to the General
Conference of the Church; the program,
as published in this issue, was carried out;
it was a new departure from the usual
method of reports from stake officers.
The exercises were well rendered, and
the music, both instrumental and vocal,
was very fine indeed, and was inspiring
in its tendency and effect. The address
of welcome by the General President,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, was dignified
in tone and sentiment, and altogether
worthy of the woman and the large and
influential organization for which she
spoke so nobly and in terms of endear-
ment that touched all hearts. The re-
sponse from Sister Ella L. S. Udall, pres-
ident of St. John’s stake, was read clearly
and distinctly by Sister Clarissa S. Wil-
liams, by request of the writer, who could
not be present in person.
			RESPONSE.
	Beloved President, Officers and Mem-
bers of the Relief Society:—
	How blessed are those today who are
privileged to sit within this sanctuary and
listen to words of welcome, counsel and
encouragement from our president and
her able corps of helpers.
	Indeed, how blessed are all of Zion’s
Relief Society workers through these
representative gatherings of our organiza-
tions. No one will gainsay that to a de-
gree all may be partakers of the spirit
and light that characterizes our semi-an-
nual conferences. Many of those present
know that the societies throughout the
Church are given new life and strength
by the reports brought from the confer-

[Column 2]
ences or given through the inspired col-
umns of our EXPONENT.
	Dear Sister Smith, though only a few
of us attend conference, there are thou-
sands whose hearts are loyal to the offic-
ers of our great organization and to the
Relief Society cause, and they are with
you in spirit today. To all these thou-
sands, were they present, you would ex-
tend a welcome, and from these thou-
sands, scattered throughout the stakes of
Zion and missions of the world comes the
response of a “God bless you and those
who are called to labor with you.’,
	It fills our hearts with joy to contem-
plate the progress our organization has
made since the Prophet Joseph “turned
the key in behalf of woman. ”We marvel
at the completeness and beauty of its
workings.
	We appreciate the fact that you, dear
president, have been spared to us to testi-
fy of the divinity of the mission of our
beloved Prophet and the inspiration that
attended him in organizing and instruct-
ing our sisters of the first Relief Society,
of which you were a member and the only
one still with us.
	We are thankful for the inspiration and
strength given our work by President
Joseph F. Smith and his associates. We
are thankful for the faithful labors during
these many years of our Secretary, dear
Aunt Emmeline Wells and all the mem-
bers of the General Board. We are
thankful for the visits of the sisters who
travel throughout the various stakes, giv-
ing counsel and sympathy and encourag-
ing the Saints to renewed efforts in their
labors.
	As a band of sisters who come to Salt
Lake from time to time to attend our
conferences, we wish to express our ap-
preciation to the presiding officers for
their efforts to make our visits pleasant
and profitable. We feel it a blessed
privilege in the receptions tendered, to
mingle spiritually and socially with our
leaders in this great Latter-day work. We
cherish the memories thus afforded us.
	Though coming from points far distant,
with many of us to come to Salt Lake is
to return to childhood’s home, “that dear-
est spot on earth.” How tender the recol-
lections these visits call up—the ties of
home and parents, of friends, and of the
noble men and women ordained to lay
the foundations of our prosperous com-
monwealth. We miss them, yet we re-
joice in meeting those who remain.
	With the ecstacy of youth we look up-
on the familiar and historic landmarks,
the lofty mountains and the crystal
streams. With subdued emotions we
visit the “silent city,” where are resting
loved ones gone before.
	From all of these we turn our eves up-
on the Temple, whose majestic spires first
greet us as we enter the City. Our hearts
overflow with gratitude as we gaze upon
this House of the Lord and ponder over
the opportunities for which it is symbolic.
What a splendid close to our stay in your
midst is the spending of a few days with-
in its sacred walls, attending to ordinan-
ces for our dead, and receiving renewed
faith and courage for the work assigned
us in our Father’s vineyard.
	Ever praying for the success of Zion
and the Relief Society thereof,
	Your sister in the cause of Truth,
				E. L. S. UDALL.
	St. John’s, Arizona.

[Column 3]
	Practical Education by Counselor Ida
Smoot Dusenbery was admirably treated
and illustrated with story-telling, in her
characteristically happy manner. Sister
Emily A. Holbrook, who introduced the
“Home,” made a brilliant setting of the
subject, followed by Sister Emily S. Rich-
ards on Amusements, giving some pretty
ideas of making home pretty and attrac-
tive by devising simple methods of enter-
tainment, celebrating birthdays of the lit-
tle folks, and referred to celebrating one
ninetieth anniversary in her own home.
Prayer in the home was the subject giyen to
Sister Avilda H. Dixon, who could not come
to the conference, but Sister Belva Ses-
sions took the subject and in her remarks,
mentioned Apostle Woodruff’s promise to
her husband, which was this: “I promise
you in the name of the Lord that if you
will read a chapter in the Bible, sing a
hymn and have prayers in your home
daily, your children will never disgrace
you, and teach this to the people.” Sis-
ter Susan Grant spoke on “Harmony in
the Home,” referred to the Holy Spirit as
essential in producing harmony, thought
we should always keep the channel of
communication open between us and our
Heavenly Father by prayer.
	President B. W. Smith said she ought
to feel very proud and say a great deal,
but felt she would like some one else, and
called upon Sister Ruth M. Fox, the rep-
resentative of the Y. L. M. I. A., who
was on the stand and who spoke of our
boys and girls, referring to the Primary
Associations and Religion Classes and al-
luded to one woman in a railroad town
who gathered the little children round
about in her home at 8 o’clock in the
morning and gave them a religious lesson.
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward sang
“Home, Sweet Home” very sweetly,
which was a fitting refrain to close with.
	At the afternoon session, after the
opening exercises, Counselor Annie Tay-
lor Hyde spoke upon the “Companion-
ship of President John Taylor and the
Prophet,” a subject fraught with the deep-
est interest. Sister Hyde could barely
touch a few important points in the time,
but she spoke with great depth of feeling
and earnestness and with great emotion,
and certainly had the sympathy of the en-
tire audience, who appreciated the effort
it must be, to give even so brief a sketch
of such a vast and comprehensive sub-
ject.
	Prof. Charles Kent sang “The Seer,”
with so much power and enthusiasm as
to bring all hearts into sympathetic har-
mony with the music.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams introduced
“The Relief Society,” giving in its largest
sense its magnitude and importance, and
her own ideals and idealism concerning
its present and future growth and pro-
gress. Mentioned how marvelous the
past of the society had been, and made
some definite statements of earnest ef-
forts that had come under her own ob-
servation. Sister Williams was followed
by those whose names are on the pro-
gram who each treated the subject as-
signed to her in a helpful and most kind-
ly manner, giving personal knowledge and
observation of practical methods and
ideas of helpfulness that had been suc-
cessfully carried out resulting in timely
aid and benefit.
	At the close of these exercises Prof.
McClellan rendered a magnificent solo on


[Column 1]
the organ which was greatly appreciated.
	At the close of the afternoon session
of the conference the president gave some
special words of blessing, which were
read by Sister Rebecca E. Little. 
	Sung, Doxology. Benediction.

			RECEPTION.
	Thursday evening a reception was given
at the Bee Hive House to the Relief
Society Stake and Mission Presidents or
their representatives by the General
Officers’ Board, and Missionaries of the
Society. It was intended to be very in-
formal, but a spirit of good fellowship
and freedom pervaded the gathering, and
it is hoped a closer bond of unity might
thus be formed and all become better ac-
quainted with each other.
	The spacious and elegant rooms were
beautifully decorated, with lovely flow-
ers and autumn leaves and presented an
artistic appearance.
	Sister Julina L. Smith as hostess of the
historic mansion gave the guests a most
cordial welcome, in the kindliest manner
after which we were honored by the presi-
dent in person.
	President Joseph F. Smith came into
the parlors and after shaking hands and
greeting the sisters he was asked to make
a few remarks, he said, “that he was
pleased to welcome them to this histo[-]ic
house, the thought of which called up
many memories of great occasions and
great people. He felt great honor for
the Relief Society workers, and recog-
nized the importance of the work.  The
Relief Society being the first auxiliary
organization of the Church, and organ-
ized by the Prophet Joseph himself, in
connection with Brothers Willard Rich-
ards and John Taylor, both of whom he
felt happy to say were represented here
tonight and he trusted President Young’s
descendants were also represented in this
work.
	In the day when the Relief Society was
organized, a few who are here tonight
were in the bloom of girlhood, now their
heads are frosted over, and he felt for
them the greatest veneration and respect
and he claimed they were entitled to the
love and respect of all their associates
and hoped they would have it henceforth
and forever.”
	The president further said, “We are
all engaged in a great work and the Lord
has blessed and strengthened it, and the
more it has been besieged and beset, the
broader and stronger it has become and
will become, and he said that he believed
no set of women realized this more than
the Relief Sooiety. He trusted that we
would have a time of profit and inspira-
tion in our coming together. Aunt Bath-
sheba was with us, and Sister Emmeline
Wells, and Sister Jennings and their as-
sociates, and were prepared to welcome
you all. Peace be with you, and may all
be well with you. Amen.”
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith made a
brief address and the sisters, assisted by
the musicians present accompanying them
sang by suggestion of the President, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
	Sister Julina L. Smith made a brief
opening address and the musicians, Prof.
Clive on the violin and his gifted son,
Clifford, on the piano, rendered sweet
music that was very refreshing and pleas-
ing.

[Column 2]
	President Edwin D. Woolley of Kanab
Stake was invited to speak and responded
upon the subject uppermost in the minds
of those present. There was more instru-
mental music and Sister Margaret C.
Hull sang a solo in her usual happy style
	Sister Priscilla Jennings whose name
had been published for an address at
at the reception spoke a few moments
upon the present situation and referred
to the San Francisco disaster, and her
own impressions when in the midst of
the calamity.
	An instrumental piece thrillingly played
by Master Clifford Clive, accompanied bv
his father on the violin was rendered and
then “Count your many blessings” was
sung, Sister Margaret C. Hull leading.
	Sister E. B. Wells, was called and
while she was speaking Brother Stephens
and members of the Tabernacle choir
serenaded President Smith singing three
pieces accompanied by three cheers for
President Jos. F. Smith, who was how-
ever absent at the Richard’s reunion.
Sister Wells resumed speaking and at the
close of her remarks Prof. Clive gave a
violin solo that was exquisitely fine. Sis-
ter Clarissa S. Williams was the next
speaker and was followed by Counselor
Ida S. Dusenberry, after which Brother
Mortenson, who was present from San-
ford, Colorado, pronounced the benedic-
tion. 
	The exercises were informal and under
the supervision of President Bathsheba
W. Smith, Sister Annie Wells Cannon by
her direction calling the numbers.
	The reception though informal was
very enjoyable and the music was excel-
lent.  A vote of thanks was tendered the
musicians, and one must acknowledge it
is possible to have a feast of good things
without refreshments,
	An officers’ meeting was held on Friday
October 5, at 4:30, in the Assembly Hall,
where there were nearly all the Stakes
represented. Besides the exercises of
singing and prayer, the secretary’s yearly
report of the work of the General Society
was read, and the General Officers Board
of Directors and missionaries sustained by
vote.
	Conference meetings closed with a test-
imony meeting in Barratt Hall on Mon-
day, October 8, commencing at 10:30,
President Bathsheba W. Smith Presiding.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


U. W. P. C.
	Sept. 24, the Utah Woman’s Press Club
met at the house of Mrs. Maria Francis.
	The subject which occupied the evening
was the Life and Poems of Mrs. Emily H-
Woodmansee. Several of her poems
were read among which were “Offences,
Versus, Truth,” “Faith and Works,”
“The Pioneer Mothers,” etc.
	Many of the members were personally
acquainted with her and spoke of the
beautiful character of the poetess in the
days of pioneer sufferings, of her cheerful-
ness and sweet influence, of her tact and
ability in the business of real estate, and
of her wonderful success and perserver-
ance, and all expressed their great love
and admiration for her.
	It was a most enjoyable evening and
the only regret expressed was that she
was not present owing to illness which
was deeply lamented.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Annie Lonie Mahoney, who departed this life
Sept, 14, 1906.
	Sister Mahoney was born in Coalville, Summit
Co., Utah, April 8, 1869. She was the eldest of
the eight children of George V. and Ada I. Phip-
pen Brim, and the first to be claimed by death
which was caused by a severe attack of typhoid
fever She was born of Latter-day Saint
parents and her mother has been presi-
dent of the Albion Ward Relief Society ever since
its organization twenty-four years ago. Sister
Mahoney had previously held the position of as-
sistant secretary and had been treasurer of this
society the last five years of her life.
	She was married at the age of eighteen to Wil-
liam Mahoney, was the mother of eight children,
the youngest a babe of seven months, all remain to
mourn her loss.
	The funeral took place Sunday, Sept. 16, 1906,
conducted by Bishop Thomas E. Harper, The
choir sang appropriate hymns and the speakers
were as follows. Elder William T. Harper, of the
Cassia Stake Presidency; Patriarch Franklin T.
Prim, uncle of the deceased and Bishop Thomas.
E. Harper.
	Each paid beautiful tributes to her life and
cheerful disposition.
	The lovely white casket which held all that was
mortal of our beloved sister, was covered with
rare flowers, gifts of some of her many friends.
The ward meeting house was filled to overflowing
and many carriages followed the remains to their
last resting place.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has in His infin-
ite wisdom seen fit to remove our beloved sister
from our midst, one who has been to all an exam-
ple of patience and cheerfulness, also a devoted
wife and loving mother,
	Therefore, be it resolved by the sisters of the
Albion Relief Society, that we tender our sym-
pathy unto the bereaved family, parents and rela-
tives, and while we feel deeply the loss, we know
that she died as she had lived, in the hope of a
glorious resurrection
	Resolved that this Memoriam be put on the rec-
ord of the society and sent to the Exponent for
publication.
	Resolutions passed before the meeting of the
Relief Society, October 9, 1906.
					IDA I. BRIM, Pres.,
					EMMA L. PHIPPEN, Sec.

	To the memory of Amelia J, Hansen who de-
parted this life August 29th, 1906.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has in His infin-
ite wisdom, called from our midst our beloved
sister snd colaborer, Amelia J. Hansen, and
	Whereas the long and intimate relation with
her, and the faithful discharge of her duties in this
society makes it eminently befitting that we re-
cord our appreciation of her—and feel comforted
in the assurance that if worthy we will meet and
enjoy her society again.
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved our
sincere sympathy, and pray God that His comfort-
ing influence may be with them, and lead their
hearts to acknowledge His goodness even in their
sore bereavement.
	Resolved by the sisters of the Twenty-first Ward
Relief Society, that we mourn our loss and that
we appreciate the purity of her life and the worthy
example she has set us to follow. Be it further—
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family of the deceased, be placed
on the records of our society and a copy be sent to
the Exponent and our local paper for publicatien.
		Gone to a peaceful, happy rest.
			Free from life’s grief and pain,
		Worker, beloved, has joined the blest,
			“Our loss is her infinite gain.”
	Eliza Barton, Frances S. Castleton, Mary
Woolley. In behalf of the Twenty-first Ward
Relief Society, Salt Lake City.
God loved thy cheerful spirit, and he sent thee
	here
To lighten the cares of our earthly sphere;
Faithful thou hast been; where’er thon hast trod
The sunshine lingered; and the blessing of God.

No storm could break thy trust sincere
In the dear Father’s love that quiets fear
Of endless sleep and the Unknown.
Into a calm of hope and welcome home,


O faithful one, dwelling where angels are,—
A woman, sister, mother,—joy is thine afar!
Working for thy neighbor thy soul divine has
	grown,
God loved thy cheerful spirit and he has called
	thee home.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	Sister Sarah Thompson Patterson, president of
Relief Society of Bloomington, departed this life
August 12th, 1906. She was born March 8th, 1867.
Appointed teacher in Relief Society Dec. 4, 1890,
was chosen second counselor December 3rd, 1891.
Elected president February 6th, 1897, which posi-
tion she held until her death. She was a sweet
pure, womanly woman; she leaves a loving hus-
band and six daughters, the oldest one married
and the youngest, one month old. She was ever
willing to listen to the instructions of those who
presided over her, and was always ready to labor
for the welfare of others.
	Her example was worthy of emulation. May
she rest in peace and be permitted to receive her
children as faithful followers of the truth when
their labors on earth are done. She is held in 
reverence in the memory of all with whom she
was acquainted.
			MARGARET HADDOCK.
	In behalf of committee.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Morning session of Relief Society stake
conference held in the stake Tabernacle,
September 12th, 1906. Counselor So-
phronia Stuart presiding.
	Visiting sisters were Emma S. Wood-
ruff and Sarah J. Cannon of the General
Board, from Salt Lake City. The Stake
Presidency, Prest. John T. Lasuerer and
Counselors, Bishops and several of our
local brethren were present. Opened by
singing and prayer. The roll showed 17
officers and 64 members with several visit-
ors in attendance. Minutes were read for
reference. Reports of the four wards
represented was that one-third of those
enrolled attended. Lectures and ques-
tions on Mothers’ work were followed out.
Lectures from books Doctrine and Cove-
nants, Book of Mormon and Bible, one
or the other, were given in each testi-
mony meeting with good results. Teach-
ers were active as a rule, and much chari-
ty work was done by each ward.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff said our re-
ports were much the same as other places
she visited. Among our other duties was
the saving of souls, teaching our children
to be honest, truthful and prayerful; also
to pay tithing; cleanliness and making the
home pleasant and orderly that our child-
ren might be encouraged to stay at home. 
The saving of wheat was also alluded to. 
	Stake President John T. Lasuerer said
he had enjoyed the conference. He
knew the sisters could bless and help
those who were weak in the faith, and
felt to bless the sisters who had traveled
so far to visit us.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon said their work
was among the sisters. We must use
judgment and wisdom in choosing teach-
ers in the society, there is so much good
they can do. We should sustain the of-
ficers in the work, and the taking of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT was referred to, as
an essential thing in Relief Society work. 
	Stake Counselor Isaac Dana felt an in-
terest in the work of the sisters, said let
us have faith to attend our meetings. 
	Adjourned until 2 p.m. with singing and
benediction by Counselor Frank T. Pome-
roy.


[Column 2]
Afternoon session—Counselor Sophro-
nia Stuart presiding. Opened with the
usual exercises. 
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon bore her testi-
mony to the beauties of the Gospel. Said
they had come to take back a report of
this stake Relief Society, temporally and
spiritually. Read a few paragraphs from
a sermon of President Joseph F. Smith
concerning the Relief Society. 
	Sister P. C. Matox felt to take an inter-
est in the work. 
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff said we
should be thankful for everything the
Lord blesses us with. We have in this
Church fifty-five stakes and several
missions. 
	Brother Joseph Stuart spoke of the
growth of the stakes in Zion. 
	Counselor Frank T. Pomeroy said he
was led to contemplate how much we owe
to the mothers in Israel, “for the hand
that rocks the cradle rules the world.”
The responsibility was great in Relief
Society work to comfort and help the
needy.”
	Counselor Sophronia Stuart made clos-
ing remarks and said an officers’ meeting
would be held at the close of this confer-
ence.
	Adjourned by singing, “Come, Come
Ye Saints.” Benediction by Sister Sarah
M. Pomeroy.
			ANNA E. FULLER,
				Stake Secretary R. S.

			NEBO STAKE.
	Morning session—Quartarly conference
Nebo Stake held July 20th, 1906, at Pay-
son second ward meeting house, Presi-
dent Eliza J. Dixon presiding. 
	Roll called showed an attendance of
144 officers and members present. 
	President Dixon gave a brief report of
the stake, reported all wards visited once
since last conference; found all doing
well, spoke of storing wheat; 1,021 mem-
bers in stake. 
	Sister Caroline L. Holt of Spanish Fork
first ward gave report of her ward. Sis-
ter Mary L. Zabiska reported Eureka
ward. Mary A. Bradford reported Span-
ish Fork second ward. 
	Song by Sisters Nellie and Rose Pat-
ten, title “Sweet Vision of Childhood.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde of the Gen-
eral Society said she was pleased with re-
ports, our Father in heaven had a day
for everything, spoke of the Nebo stake
report, was pleased with the work of the
stake; sisters doing so much good work,
carrying on the same work that the Savior
did in relieving the sick and caring for the
poor, spoke of the children as the chil-
dren of God, we should not oppress them,
they are precious treasures, spoke of moth-
ers in early days gathering their children
around them and reading the Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants
every day; spoke of so much amuse-
ments, thought we should think of more
than the things of God, spoke of young
women working in Relief Society and
Mothers’ Class, said to think good and
do good, be pleasant when visiting the
sick, spoke of the Word of Wisdom as
being really necessary, even the people of
the world keeping it, spoke of our young
missionaries and what the world think
of them, that they think they are a fine
class of men; be charitable to those that
had made mistakes, our Heavenly Father

[Column 3]
don’t turn us off for our mistakes, “the
kingdom of God or nothing” should be
our motto, the Lord sends us trials to
purify us, we should not return evil for
good. 
	Recitation by Sister Earlensen. 
	Sister Farnsworth, a member of the
General Board, said it was her first time
to visit Payson, there had been great
progress in the Relief Society since first
organized by Joseph Smith, spoke of
the Relief work done in the San
Francisco disaster, spoke of the rights of
the sisters, told that they had all the
rights that our brethren can give them;
we must let our lights shine as true lights
in Zion.
	President Page of Nebo stake said he
was pleased to meet with the large num-
ber of sisters, it showed the good work
that was being done, glad to have the
sisters of the General Board with us,
said it is very necessary that we be
united, spoke of the Savior’s prayer in
the Garden of Gethsemane. We should
be as pillars in the Church to hold it up. 
We should not force our children, but
should use our influence to hold them to
the right. 
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session—President Dixon
presiding. Sister Farnsworth spoke about
the Nurses’ Class; said it was a fine op-
portunity for our sisters to become trained
nurses, wanted some of the girls from 
every stake to be trained nurses, said the
time was past for us to sit down and not
exert ourselves to improve, spoke of
Christ’s sermon on the mount; our chil-
dren should learn the lesson that it
teaches.
	Sister Hyde spoke, said Sister Smith
wished to be remembered to the sisters
and sent her love to all, was the only
woman living that received her endow-
ments in the days of Joseph Smith, said
that Sister Smith never was late at any
appointment, she has set the sisters a
good example. Said the Lord would al-
ways help us in our trials through life. 
Spoke of the Word of Wisdom in tak-
ing care of our bodies, and not work
too hard so that they would wear out be-
fore our spirits had done the work that
they were sent here to do; keep the
faith and cling to the iron rod. 
	Recitation, Sister Annie Tanner, “The
Girl Child.”
	Sister Roberts of Goshen said a mother
in Israel is a great and good name, are
we doing a mother’s part by our offspring,
do we know the responsibility that rests
upon us as fathers and mothers in Israel?
	Recitation by Sister Lavina Done. 
	President Lemmons spoke of the good
instructions we had received, that we
should put them into practice and get the
good out of them. One of the works of
the Relief Society is to take care of the
sick and the poor not only by food and
clothing, but we should help them to take
care of themselves by furnishing them
work. That if we followed the instruc-
tions of the authorities of the Church we
will never go astray. We should teach the
Gospel to our families. 
	Officers of the General and Stake Board
were presented and sustained. 
	Closed by singing “Redeemer of Israel.”
Prayer, Bishop Taylor.
		ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
			Cor. Sec, Nebo Stake.


[Column 1]
			ST. JOSEPH.
	The Relief Society officers of the St.
Joseph Stake met in the Thatcher meet-
ing house September 7, 1906, at 2 p. m.
President Elizabeth Layton presiding.
The General Board was represented by
Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and Sarah J.
Cannon. After singing by the congrega-
tion prayer was offered by Patriarch John
Taylor. There was an excellent repre-
sentation from the several wards.
	President Elizabeth Layton welcomed
the visiting sisters also the congregation
in a few words of encouragement and
greeting, and signified the wish of the
visitors that presidents of wards report,
as they should like to hear how the dif-
ferent branches of the society are getting
along, as also how the officers themselves
are feeling, and called upon the presi-
dents of the Pima, Central, Clifton, Gra-
ham and Thatcher wards, who each re-
ported her organization as doing the best
they could under the circumstances in
which they were placed. Some are too
busy or indifferent to attend meetings
much, but on the whole there are enough
faithful workers to keep the Relief So-
ciety work rolling on in the several wards.
	The Pima society was reported as hav-
ing a good house of their own, carpeted
and comfortably fixed up to meet in.
	The president of the Thatcher society,
Sister Olive Kimball, said they had just
turned over to the Bishop one hundred
and one dollars and ninety-five cents to
apply on the ward meeting house, and
that they have 400 bushels of wheat on
hand.
	Sister S. J. Cannon said she had not come
to tell us anything new. President Bath-
sheba W. Smith sent her regards and best
wishes to the sisters. Approved of hav-
ing many officers and not placing two or
more responsible positions upon one per-
son. It was a good thing to get all inter-
ested, and the more that are called into
office the greater interest will be taken.
Keep your children at home; don’t let
them go away to work or for amusements.
Make home so pleasant that they and
their associates will love to be there.
	Sister Emma Woodruff said, “Unity
and respect go hand in hand. If officers
are united they will respect each other.
The duty of the teacher is not always to
furnish financial help, but words of com-
fort and encouragement are often needed.”
Spoke of order in the house, cleanliness
and economy.
	Patriarch John Taylor encouraged the
Relief Society workers to press on in the
noble work which they had begun.
	Adjourned by singing. Prayer Eliza-
beth Moody.
	The Relief Society conference met Sat-
urday, Sept. 8th, conjointly with the
quarterly conference, by the courtesy of
the Stake Presidency; the forenoon was
devoted to Relief Society work. Presi-
dent Elizabeth Layton conducting the
exercises. Roll call showed ten stake
and twenty-three local officers present.

[Column 2]
President Layton reported the members
of her board alive to their duties and
working in unison. Each of the branches
in the stake had been visited once since
last conference, some of them several
times.
	Reports of local presidents continued
from yesterday.
	Sister Emma Woodruff: “Judging from
reports the sisters here are doing about
as they are in the north. A ward with-
out a Relief Society is like a man without
a wife. The Relief Society is the oldest
auxiliary organization in the Church, it is
therefore the mother of the others. The
young people should be taught to respect
the aged. Boys ought to have as much
care and consideration as the girls. Strew
flowers along each other’s paths by deeds
and words of love and kindness, and do
not wait to strew them on their graves.”
Bore testimony to the divinity of the
work.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon thought it nec-
essary for anyone to work for a cause be-
fore they could become really interested
in it, and the more they work the greater
interest they will manifest. “It is as im-
portant to care for the grain you have on
hand as it is to collect more. ” Spoke of the
great good teachers can do, if they have
the spirit of their work. “As we are
judged from the books it is very necessary
that our records should be full and com-
plete, not to have our names enrolled and
then seldom or never attend our meet-
ings.” Read an extract from the sermon
of President Joseph F. Smith upon the
Relief Society, delivered at the last gen-
eral conference, commenting on the
same.
	Sister Woodruff wanted each Relief
Society to consider the sending of sisters
to Dr. Roberts’ class to be instructed in
obstetrics.
	Counselor Salina Phillips hoped all
would do their duty that the Relief So-
ciety might become what it was designed
it should be. Encouraged Mothers’ Work.
	Counselor Olive Kimball was thankful
for the presence of the visiting sisters.
Hoped all would practice upon what they
had heard.
	President Layton was gratified with all
that had been said and done in confer-
ence. Hoped what we had heard would
enthuse us with a renewed determination
to more fully perform our duty.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
				SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
			(Concluded.)
	Afternoon session. Whitney choir fur-
nished the music.
	After singing and prayer, choir sang an
anthem. Instrumental music was given by
Annie and Vera Parkinson, and much en-
joyed.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde addressed the
conference in a spirited manner, touch-
ing the following subjects: Mothers at-
tending Y.L.M.I.A.; temple work, its

[Column 3]
importance to us and to our progenitors;
the teaching of children in regard to the
Word of Wisdom; marriage, and caring
for the amusements of children, also of
gaining and retaining their confidence;
spoke on the magnitude of the Relief So-
ciety work (3500 enrolled), loving our
enemies, despising evil speaking, keeping
the Sabbath day and all the command-
ments.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth spoke of indi-
viduality, of our work, blessings of good
husbands and children, benefits of nurs-
ing classes and knowing how to care for
our bodies; spoke of the Woman’s build-
ing and what Relief Society work in-
cluded.
	Pres. Parkinson addressed the confer-
ence on “Influence of Relief Society work,”
its progress, and spoke of prophecy being
fulfilled that was uttered at its organiza-
tion, how beautiful and ennobling its
mission was, advised kindness, self-sacri-
fice, and gave words of encouragement.
	Sister Hyde related her bearing of testi-
mony to two noted women in regard to
woman’s equality being recognized since
the Prophet uttered those words and
turned the key, which will place woman
side by side with man.
	Pres. Benson thanked the sisters for
their visit; advised the local officers to
pray for wisdom.
	Choir sang an anthem. Benediction by
Bishop H. Geddes.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
				R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St, Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

[Column 2]
		DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
		LADIES’ SPECIALIST
			TEACHER OF
		Obstetrics and Nursing
ROOM 417 TEMPLETON BUILDING
Phone 4372y		-	-	Salt Lake City


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	“Twelve thousand little ones, ranging in
age from nine to fourteen years are work-
ing in the coal-breakers of the anthracite
field. Would this be allowed if the wo-
men of the United States had a vote.”
	“Baroness Alexandra Gripenburg has
been nominated for the Finnish Parlia-
ment. Under the new constitution of
Finland, women not only have the full
ballot, but are eligible for all offices.”
	“Mlle. Brustlein, the daughter of a Swiss
deputy, took her seat on the magistrate’s
bench at Zurich, on October 5, and in
company with her men colleagues tried
several cases, This is the first time a
woman has sat on the bench in Switzer-
land.”
	Dr, Elizabeth Blackwell, the earliest
woman physician, sailed from Boston for
Liverpool on the Saxonia on October 10. 
She is now nearly 86, and is still in good
health.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

