Vol. 35					SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1906						No. 3


CONTENTS.
National Council of Women..............................	17
News About Women..........................................	17
A Queen’s Idea of a Lady..................................	17
Relief Society Reports—Alpine Stake—Bear
	Lake Stake.................................................	18
Woman’s Voice..................................................	19
In Memoriam.................................................... 19-22
Relief Society Reports—Wayne Stake—En-
	sign Stake—Liberty Stake—Pioneer Stake
	—Oneida Stake......................................... 23-24
Editorial—The Spirit of the Age—An Inter-
	esting Entertainment..................................	20
	A Chronicle of the Relief Society..............	21
	Editorial Notes...........................................	22
	Visits of Missionaries................................	24
Poetry—Weariness............................................	17
	Journey Across the Sea and Plains............	19


WEARINESS.
BY MAUD BAGGARLEY.

A long dusty road, a hill—
Upward slowly and painfully toiling
Goes a woman old and bent and gray,
Her tired hands bear a heavy burden,
And graves are the mile-stones of her way.

All is silent and dreary,
Even the trees like specters stand
Bereft of autumnal-tinted raiment—
The touch of winter on every hand.

Leaden and gray the sky above—
Brown and sear the earth below—
Look up, Pilgrim, and rejoice!
For the God of heaven wills it so.

If earth held only gladness. 
Sunshine and flowers alway;
And the heart knew naught of sadness,
Thou wouldst even forget to pray.

The deeper the darkness
The brighter the light
That shall fall on thy weary eyes,
And weariness, loneliness be but a name,
In that land beyond the sk[-]es


NATIONAL COUNCIL OF FRENCH WOMEN.

	MRS. RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.

	“During the recent Executive Com-
mittee meeting of the International Coun-
cil of Women at Paris, the French Coun-
cil held one public session, to which all
the international representatives were in-
vited. There we heard woman suffrage,
between the lines of the witty and bril-
liant reports of the Council’s four depart-
ments: Philosophy, education, labor, and
legislation.
	“Finally, after an address from the In-
ternational President, Lady Aberdeen,
and a word of greeting from each of the
representatives of other national councils,
Baroness Alexandra Gripenberg of Fin-
land expressed her thanks to the noble
women of all lands whose work for the
uplifting of womanhood had, in her opi-
nion, made possible the enfranchisement
of her countrywomen through the act of
May 28, which conferred upon Finnish
women the right to vote and to be elected


to all offices on terms of perfect equality
with Finnish men.
	“Mlle. Monod. president of the French
Council, then called for a few words from
the representative of India, and Madame
Rustem Cama of Bombay, in picturesque
East Indian garb, in a charmingly simple
and at the same time dignified manner,
said, in English: ‘I feel that the one thing
we all ought to work for is to get the right
of suffrage for women. In my own coun-
try we are under foreign rule, and neither
men nor women can vote. We have had,
for the last twenty-one years, a large po-
litical union, and in it men and women
both are delegates. We want the right
of suffrage for women as well as men, for
we have seen, in all countries where men
are freed first and leave the women be-
hind, that it then takes many generations
to bring the women up to an equality with
the men. So we in India have started to-
gether. We want justice for women, and
the right to vote.’
	“The men of Finland, even when their
own rights hung in the balance, were wil-
ling to demand equality of rights for their
countrywomen, and thousands of East In-
dian men associate women with them in
their work for political recognition, and
ask that the women shall come with men
into the kingdom of political freedom.
	“Think of that, American men, who
claim to regard American women so high-
ly, yet are willing to allow your mothers
and sisters to be classed politically with
idiots and criminals!”


[Column 1]
		NEWS ABOUT WOMEN.
	A new line of work is opening for trained
nurses. Many of the big transatlantic
liners are now carrying a pair of trained
nurses on each trip, and it is said that
they make such a good thing out of it that
others are sure to follow.		Ex.
	The international conference in Den-
mark, if it accomplishes nothing else, will
open the eyes of Europeans to the aggres-
sive nature of the movement to give to
women a legal, political, educational and
social statuts equal to that of men. The
time has gone by to deride that move-
ment. In spite of numerous defeats, it is
surely gaining ground.—Anaconda (Mont.)
Standard.
	The large number of Whitehall women
who went to the polls yesterday and re-
gistered their choice for school trustees
was a step forward and an advance in ci-
vilization. It forcibly reminds us that the
time is coming when woman will be al-
lowed the use of the ballot at any elec-
tion, and that she is step by step severing
the disfranchisement which an unfair cus-
tom has thrown around her.—Whitehall
(N. Y.) Times.
	In the State of Washington, the hus-
band still has the legal right to will the
children away from their mother. He
can thus bequeath even a child that is un-
born at the time of the father’s death.

[Column 2]
Less than three years ago a husband willed
an unborn baby away from its mother,
because his religious belief differed from
hers, and the child was taken from her
arms at two weeks old. Nor is this law a
relic of barbarism handed down from the
remote past. It was enacted in 1896. Yet
the opponents of equal rights assure us
that the laws are “more than just to
women.”					Ex.
	We had the pleasure, of meeting Lady
Laurier and her distinguished husband
when they visited Salt Lake City about
two years ago, and as many of our people
reside in Canada, we are very glad to
know that Lady Laurier favors woman’s
speaking in public, and has herself opened
the way in the British domain, according
to the following note which appeared in
one of our exchanges.
	“Lady Laurier, the wife of the Premier,
is the only woman who has delivered a
speech in the Canadian House of Parlia-
ment. She was discovered at a reception
at the foot of the throne, and at once a
demand was made for a speech. She was
at first abashed, but ascended the steps
and made what was described as “a pretty
oration.”
	The Czar has signed Finland’s Woman’s
Suffrage bill. This is a great victory for
the women of that little island. Baroness
Alexandra Gripenberg gave a most inter-
esting account of the causes that led to
the recent victory of equal suffrage in that
country, and now that the Czar has signed
the bill it is indeed a triumph. The Ba-
roness has been long associated with the
International Council of Women, and has
been an active worker for the political
freedom of the women of her native land.
She was a representative of Finland at
the Congress of Women at the Columbian
Exposition in Chicago in 1893.


A QUEEN’S IDEA OF A LADY.
	When the Dowager Queen Margherita
of Italy recently was asked her idea of a
lady, she described her as “soft of speech
and manner,” but with perfect control of
herself, loyal, with the ability to practice
self-denial and self-restraint.
	This royal definition of a lady opens the
door to all womanhood. There is no ex-
clusion here, no mention of the 400 nor of
any other limited body of fashion. Every
woman may be a lady, according to Queen
Margherita’s generous inclusiveness.
	Shakespeare, when he made King Lear
speak of the dead Cordelia, his youngest,
and in his affliction his only loyal daughter,
had in mind such a lady as Queen Mar-
gherita describes:

Her voice was ever soft,
Gentle, and low, an excellent thing in
	woman.

	Only by the use of the word “woman,”
it is evident that his idea was that the
finest woman is the finest lady.—Boston
Globe.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The regular quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held
at Pleasant Grove July 20th, 1906, Presi-
dent Rebecca Standring presiding. We
were again honored with the presence of
our beloved General President Bathsheba
W. Smith and General Secretary Emmeline
B. Wells, also nearly all our Stake board
and presidents of wards. Meeting opened
at 10 a.m. After the opening exercises
President Standring expressed herself
highly honored in the attendance of our
leading sisters to day. Reported Alpine
Stake in good condition, advancing and
improving. Felt we were much blest to
day and congratulated the sisters of Pleas-
ant Grove on their beautiful new meeting
house.
	Lehi 1st ward reported by President
Mary A. Anderson; Lehi 2nd ward, Presi-
dent Kate Allred; Cedar Fort President
Margaret Bennett. President B. W.
Smith said she loved Relief Society work
better than anything except the Temple.
Felt it was good to meet together, it
strengthens and helps us. Wanted the
young mothers worked into the Relief
Society. Thinks we will meet and rejoice
together when we pass away from this
earth. Had received her endowments in
the days of the Prophet Joseph and had
associated in temple work ever since,
when that work was being done; before
we had Temples here officiated in the En-
dowment House. Felt very happy to be
here and to see the sisters so united; pray-
ed the Lord to bless us with means to
carry on the work.
	Singing by the Choir. “The time is far
spent” etc.
	Brother Jas. H. Clarke of the Stake
Presidency felt always to appreciate these
meetings. “We have a good part of the
strength of the Church among these sist-
ers, and there is a very nice representation
here to day; many of you have had long
experience and if you could impart these
experiences to the younger portion of the
sisters how much good you could do,
though in some cases perhaps your ad-
vances would be repulsed. Our children
should be trained while they are little
tots, for when they get into their ’teens
it is almost impossible to manage them
and they are liable to get away from us if
they have not had proper training in
childhood. We are a progressive people
and we are raising a generation who do
not fear anything, but if we can teach
them to fear God, they will not go far
astray. The sisters are an important part
of this Church and there is a great re-
sponsibility resting upon them. How this
work is increasing and how our hearts en-
large and how much cause we have to re-
joice. The Lord has blest Sister Smith,
she is a representative of the first organi-
zation of this Society in Nauvoo, and we
are proud to see her and hear her testi-
mony of the Prophet Joseph Smith. We
are like children and we will grow and
develop until we are fit to associate with
our Father in heaven.”
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells declared she
was very happy to be with us to day.
Loved the mountains and liked to seem
so near to them. Had been delighted
with Brother Clarke’s remarks on the
training of children. It is necessary to
keep a strong guard over our children.
Called attention to Sister Smith as the

[Column 2]
only representative of the Society in Nau-
voo, she stands pre-eminent as the first
woman in the Church. We are doing
greater things now than in early days; if
we were to be put back fifty years we
should find a great difference; we have
been looking forward to something great.
President Woodruff used to say that when
Joseph F. Smith became President of the
Church we should see great things, and
since Sister Smith has been President
great things have been done in the Relief
Society work. Pesident Joseph F. Smith
in his remarks at Conference said the Re-
lief Society stood next to the Priesthood
in representation among the auxiliaries
of the Church. Sister Wells loved the
sisters of the Relief Society. There is no
such women in the world, they are trained
to speak from the heart, they have a
testimony of the gospel and are able to
bear it before the world.
	Singing. Benediction. Adjourned until
2 o’clock.
	Afternoon Session: Conference re-con-
vened 2 o’clock. President Standring pre-
siding. After the opening exercises some
of the wards were reported. President
Louisa Halliday reported Pleasant Grove;
Linden, President Cordelia Thorne; Ame
rican Fork 4th ward President Alice T.
Steele. The reports were given in a spirit-
ed manner, all seem to be enjoying their
labors and are in good, flourishing con-
dition.
	Sister Sina Chipman expressed her
satisfaction in being privileged to be home
again among her friends after her travels
in Europe. Appreciated her mountain
home, and to love the gospel more than
ever. Had been inquired of in Scandi-
navia concerning friends who are here.
The saints in the old countries are long-
ing to hear from their friends in Utah.
They would give much to just meet and
shake hands with the President and Apos-
tles. This work is a great work and it is
growing and advancing. We have much
before us and it will require our best
efforts to keep pace with the times. We
know nothing of poverty in this land,
there is plenty of it in the old countries,
had seen more in London than in other
places. Had found over one hundred
people of her kindred and felt thankful to
meet and get acquainted with them.
	Solo by Miss Driggs.
	General President B. W. Smith was
well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph
Smith and was the only remaining member
of the first organization of the Relief So-
ciety. The last words she had heard the
Prophet say were, that he wanted to preach
a sermon on baptism for the dead for he
had received a revelation on that subject,
but he never had the opportunity to preach
again. “The endowments were given in the
Nauvoo Temple when it was in an unfinish-
ed condition and were just the same as they
are now, and every one who was with in
reach received them, but the work had to
be rushed because the mob were upon us
and we were driven out in the frost and
snow.” Sister Smith buried her mother
and her baby on the road after leaving
her home in Nauvoo. Desired the boys
and girls should get a testimony of the
gospel for it is worth more than riches
and some day the Prophet Joseph will
meet with us and bless us in our labors.
	Song. Miss Halliday.
	Sister E. B. Wells hoped the sisters

[Column 3]
would remember what Sister Smith had
been speaking about, because she had told
them of the Holy order and we should im-
press these things upon our children for
they are greater than anything the world
can give, our ordinances are very sacred and
should be held so by our sisters, and they
should keep their garments sacred and
not cut them off here and there, but keep
them as they were received in the Temple.
Thought there must have been a good
spirit here today to draw out the remarks
of Sister Smith for these are things she
seldom speaks about. Many of our little
boys hold a portion of the Priesthood and
we should bear that in mind. We want
our mothers to make their homes attrac-
tive and not allow the children to be neg-
lected.
	Bishop Gardner of Lehi felt to appre-
ciate being here to day and to hear the
teachings of these sisters who have been
members of the Church so long, the world
ought to be converted to the truth in the
testimonies of these noble women.
	President Standring had enjoyed the
remarks of the sisters, the instruction is
something we should all remember; and
mothers should impress upon their child-
ren the importance and the sacredness of
our Holy Temples. Hoped the remarks
of to day would be indelibly impressed
upon us all, and may the peace and bles-
sing of God rest and abide with us con-
tinually.
	Singing. “We thank Thee O God for
a Prophet.” Closing prayer Counselor
Annie C. Hindley. Conference adjourned
for three months.
	EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Secretary.

		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	We held our Conference of the Bear
Lake Stake Relief Society, June 24th,
1906, which consisted of 2 meetings Of-
ficers meeting held in Tabernacle Vestry
10 o’clock Sunday morning, and through
the chilly weather we hold our general
meeting in the Paris 1st, Ward Meeting
House at 2 p. m. President J. P. Lindsay
presided at both meetings.
	We had with us Sisters Margaret Caine,
and Hattie B. Harker of Salt Lake City and
had a very pleasant time together. After
the opening exercises, wards were report-
ed by Presidents or Counselors, and the
conditions of the wards were better under-
stood, and corrections and advice given
where needed.
	Our beloved President J. P. Lindsay
considering having past her 82nd birth-
day, is very bright and continually, with
the help of her counselors exhorts the
sisters to be up and doing; but there is
always room for improvement, a good
spirit prevailed during Conference and a
desire to progress.
	President William Rich met with us in
both meetings and gave us much instruc-
tion that will be of great benefit if put
in practice.
	Sister Caine spoke considerable on
Temple work during Officers meeting,
and exhorted the mothers to teach their
children the sacredress of their religion
and Sister Harker said the President
of the Society of each ward is the mother
of the sisters, and we should all try to do
our best in every way possible to help the
work along. Benediction by Nancy Allred.
	LOUISE TUELLER, Cor. Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


JOURNEY ACROSS THE SEA AND PLAINS.

It is just fifty years ago today,
	Since we left home and native land,
To gather to Zion and to obey
	The true and Latter-day command.

In company with my Sa[-]nted mother,
	Three sisters and a little brother,
Six weeks in a sailing vessel we came,
	The good ship Thornton was its name.

	It was a rough voyage; we had a terrible storm,
but we felt that God was at the helm and we were 
safe in His care. 

When we arrived at the New York shore,
	We were thankful to see land once more.
Thence we traveled by train to Iowa;
	And six weeks there we had to stay,
Until they fixed the hand-cart train;
	So we could start to cross the plain.
Ah me! how much to us that word con-
		tain,
	The great and dreary desert plains.

	It was the fifteenth day of July before we could
start upon our overland journey; and for five 
weeks we traveled on without cessation.

Never even stopp’d for rest on Sunday,
	We were in the buffalo country.
Most of our cattle stampeded one night,
	Leaving us in a dreadful plight.

	For five days the men were out searching for 
them, but it was of no use, they were lost indeed,
and it was beyond our power to recover them. 

It was of no use, men searched in vain,
	And then the camp marched on again,
But afterwards our good Captain Willey thought
	We’d keep the Sabbath as we ought.

	The few cattle that remained were yoked up
with the cows, and every handcart carried an
extra hundred pounds of flour, but our rations
fell short.

To these Pilgrims cold and hunger came,
	But we travel’d on just the same,
Strong men failed, for it was very hard
	To walk all day, and at night stand guard.
Many died martyrs, but they are all right,
	Bravely and well they fought the good fight,
God will remember them; I know what I say,
	They’ll come forth in the Resurrection day.
I remember one day, feeling so sad—
Mother was sick, and look[-]d very bad,
Others were dying, and she might die too,
	And I wondered, if so, what we would do;
I wept at the thought, she saw me and said
	“Dinna greet, but pray to him overhead, 
Who tempers the wind, to the shorn lamb;
	I’ve prayed and I’ve promised to never com-
		plain,
Whatever the trials we have to pass through,
	If our lives are spared we’ll be faithful and
		true.”
She kept her word and my eldest brother,
	Robert A. Bain, met us at Green river,
With teams and supplies, and no mo[-]e starv-
		ing. 
Mother could lie down and rest herself, saying,
	“I’m thankful as if in the kingdom of
		heav’n.”
We arrived safe the last of November, 
	A day of rejoicing that we all remember.
Four now have passed over to the other side. 
	Faithful and true they lived and they died.
Boys, this is the path your mother has trod
	I pray you hold fast to “the iron rod,”
And follow the path that will lead you to God,
No earthly riches can ever compare
	To the reward reserved for the faithful
What joy and rejoicing when we get where
	Our loved ones and all the righteous dwell,
And as the song says, in my heart I say,
	“The trials of the road will be as nought,
When we get to the end of the way,”
	And partake of the blessings they’ve brought.
			BETSY SMITH GOODWIN.
Beaver, Utah, May 2, 1906.


WOMAN’S VOICE.
My Dear Sister:—
	In response to your kind note of May
25th I felt that I must take time to tell
you of our latest movements as Relief
Society workers, in this stake; I believe


in all the wards the sisters are doing fair-
ly well, in the larger towns particularly
so. In the Parowan ward the Relief So-
ciety is making a mighty effort to build
themselves a commodious and respectable
building; we have purchased a building
spot, and last evening closed the contract
for one hundred thousand brick, which
are to be ready by the last of July. Next
Sunday at 2 p. m. we hold our conference
at Cedar City, we do not expect a repres-
entative of the General Board this time,
but at the best convenience of all will
call special meetings for our visitors.
Our Mothers work has given the hap-
piest results, beside attracting, the organ-
ization seems to be toned up, and is re-
garded as an institution of greater impor-
tance. On Thursday a sister will lecture
on Self Improvement, and I am to treat
upon the subject of “The higher ideals of
the home.”
	We held our Peace meetings May 27th,
were satisfied with the results; at Cedar
City I hear the meeting was one ever to
be remembered. Prof. Maybe of the
B. N. S. was the chief speaker and his
hearers were enrapt with his soul stirring
eloquence, and thoroughly endorsed his
plea for peace.
	Tomorrow our ward president, sister
S A. Adams with three of her daughters
leave for a three weeks trip to Los An-
geles, sister Mary A. Smith Wimmer (the
first counselor) is very poorly and is go-
ing to visit Salt Lake City, that she may
go to the temple and be baptized for her
health, I do hope she can go, she is a
noble character and has been called upon
to suffer much.
	Bishop Richards just stepped in, I de-
livered your kind message, he wishes to
be kindly remembered and prays that you
may have good health; Sister Adams said
she would write you: at our meeting on
Thursday and Sunday I will give your
loving sentiments to the sisters. I ap-
preciate your sisterly wishes for me and
mine, I feel we need to support each other
in this way, it gives us greater strength
and encouragement.
	I am very busy in many ways, but I
have enjoyed this indulgence of a pen chat
with you.
	May the best gifts of our Father’s be
yours,
		Lovingly,
			E. CRANE WATSON.
July 9, 1906.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
		“He giveth His beloved sleep.”
	Mrs. Emily B. Spencer departed this life July
3rd, 1906, aged 72 years, at Cannonville, Utah.
She was the wife of George Spencer, who de-
parted this life 1872. She was the mother of nine
children, four only survive her. Among them is
her oldest daughter, Emily, who married Prof.
Miles, now of Idaho, and Julia, who married Wil-
ford Woodruff, Jun, oldest son of the late Presi-
dent Woodruff, she died some years ago.
	The last years of her l[-]fe were sp[-]nt at Cannon-
ville, where she was an earnest worker in the
Sunday School, also secretary for the Relief
Society. She was beloved by all the sisters of the
society, and is greatly missed. She possessed the
gift of po try, and wrote many verses, most of
which have been published She was very strict
in keeping the Word of Wisdom, using neither
pork nor drinking hot drink-: she was widely
known in Southern Utah. Her nature was angelic
and especially to those that were cast down; her
religion was to her the dearest thing of her life;

[Column 2]
she retained her bright and noble mind to her
death; her memory was remarkable, also her eye-
sight, never using spectacles; she was one of the
most remarkable of women; she died as she had
lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint, and her light
will shine before her children both in time and
eternity. Her genial disposition won for her the
love of all with whom she was associated; God
grant that all may strive to emulate her.
				LETITIA M. SPENCER.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, the Almighty in His unbounded and
infinite wisdom has s[-]en fit to take from our midst
our beloved sster, Amanda Stowell Butler, who
was Pres[-]dent of the Trenton Relief Society, for
twelve years, from July, 1894, until February,
1905, when she was honorably released on account
of the sickness which ended in her death; and
	Whereas, she has ever been a faithful worker in
the Lord’s vineyard, a minister to the poor, the
needy and the suffering, now, therefore, be it
	Resolved, that we, the officers of the Trenton
Relief Society of the Benson Stake of Zion do ex-
tend to the family our sincere sympathy, and
pray that they will follow and emulate the ex-
ample of their noble and beloved one; and be it
further
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
recorded in the Trenton Relief Society Record,
and that a copy also be sent to each member of
the family.
	Mary B. Bingham. Margaret Benson, Mary Ann
Rawlins, Presidency of the Trenton Relief
Society.
	Mrs. Louise Eddins Hales, wife of our esteemed
and veteran citizen George Hales, departed this
life on Tuesday, April 17, of general debility and
old age. She was born at Cradley, Herefordshire,
England, June 1st, 1834, arriving at Nauvoo the
same year. Here the family remained until the
exodus from that city in 1846. They remained in
Florence, Winter Quarters until the spring of
1848, when they proceeded on their journey,
reaching Salt Lake the same year.
	Mrs. Hales was married to George Hales about
1852, since which time she has been a resident of
Beaver. Sister Hales has endured many trials
and priv[-]tious since the early settlement of Utah,
and has ever remained true to the faith she
espoused; she was a kind and loving wife, a de-
voted mother and a good citizen. She was the
mother of eleven children, five of whom survive
her, she has twenty-four grandchildren and six
great grandchildren living.
	Funeral services were held in the L. D. S.
chapel, Thursday 19th inst. at which consoling re-
marks eulogistic of the life and character of the
deceased were made by Elders John Lang, George
Pace and R Maeser.—Beaver Weekly Press.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Annie
M. Rouche by the Relief Society of the Melville
Ward
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to call home our beloved sis-
ter. and
	Whereas, the members of this association do
feel a personal loss in the death of our beloved
secretary, Annie M. Rouche, and regret that she
should be called home so soon.
	Whereas, her passing is as fruitful and as beau-
tiful as was her living, as she honored God, hon-
ored His holy priesthood, and so honored herself
and enjoyed to the fullest degree the spirit of her
ca ling, so frail, and yet so powerful in defence
of right, therefore be it
	Resolved that we strive to emulate her unwaver-
ing faith, her fidelity to purity and truth and her
devoti n o her home and religious duties and her
humi ity and respect and obedience to proper
au hority.
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sympa-
thy and love to the bereft husband and children
and all other dear ones and sincerely pray our
Heavenly Father that He will fill their wounded
souls with the comforting influence of His Holy
Spirit that they may realize that she has only
gone before to enjoy the rest and reward of a
well sp[-]nt life That a copy of these resolutions
be given to the esteemed husband one to be sent
to the son “Les” who is fulfilling a mission in
New Zealand, one to the Womans Exponent and
one to be placed on our record.
	One less at home The charmed circle broken.
A dear face missed day by day from its accus-
tomed place. But purified and perfected by grace,
one more in heaven.
	President E. A. Farr, Counselors A. P. Ander-
son and M. A. Anderson, Assistant Secretary
Olive Scott.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-		SEPTEMBER, 1906


[Column 1]

THE SPIRIT OF THE AGE.
	These are days of travel; journeying
to and fro, and seeking new places, new
faces, new amusements, and in fact al-
most anything in the way of diversity.
There seems to be no longer any real
tranquility or restfulness. Activity at the
present time is the attitude of the world
and its inhabitants. The world moves,
we are quite sure of that, and even
the earth itself is not quiet, as we have
abundant testimony of late, "earthquakes
in divers places," and volcanoes are a part
of the incesant activity that is apparent
in this war of elements that is being
waged here below, and that is increasing
a feeling of insecurity and uncertainty
prevailing in the world, and especially
with those of little or no positive faith.
	The old-fashioned homes exist no lon-
ger; one would imagine houses were
not built for people to live in permanent-
ly; at any rate, not from generation to
generation, an abiding place for the chil-
dren to inherit. Traveling here and
there, shutting up the house and going
abroad, is one of the fashions, and one
might say, in many instances one of the
follies of the age.
	This year particularly, people have
gone away on summer vacations, more
than ever before in this part of the world;
and judging by the number of tourists
and strangers that come within the
gates of this city, it is so elsewhere. Uni-
versal commotion prevails, and this
state of things is not conducive to health
or comfort; at any rate not to "all the
comforts of a home." To what does this
tend, and how has it been brought about?
These are problems that present them-
selves to the thoughtful individual. Pos-
sibly it is due to the great increase of
wealth through mines and commercial
values.
	Deceive ourselves as we may, these
conditions are not good for the rising
generation. It is not a healthy atmos-
phere to raise children in; and if our chil-
dren are not physically and morally
strong, what then? What will avail the
accumulation of wealth. There are many
causes for all these changes in the way
of living, and doubtless many forces
working unseen that one is not aware of,
as these are days of "new thought" and
higher living. Simplicity has gone out of
fashion and real, homely, home-making is
almost a lost art in the present day. Ev-
erybody travels we hear flippantly stated,

[Column 2]

as though it was the most common-place
thing imaginable. But there must be
money to travel with, if one goes here
and there, and somebody sacrifices un-
doubtedly to procure this money so lav-
ishly expended.
	Every man has not made a fortune in 
mines, or even in business, and although
things cost less than formerly, they are
not as substantially made, neither do
they last as long or wear as well. We
will agree, most of us at any rate, that
this is an extravagant age, and the ten-
dency in that direction is startling, to say
the least,
	Too much of this sort of thing tends to
ruin. The mad race for pleasure in the
way of amusements, such as theatres,
operas, and worst of all, the various
"sports" that were frowned down wholly
by our progenitors, not so many hundred
years ago, are held to be respectable by
the general public. If this were even so
(which the writer does not countenance
or think it in the interest of morality), the
company that young people are thrown
among in such places has an evil effect,
the contagion is in the very atmosphere
and surroundings of the places where
these "fast people" congregate who in-
dulge in what may well be termed "games
of chance;" although many respectable,
moral and educated people do coun-
tenance them, and at any rate speak
lightly of the matter, if they do not par-
ticipate in them.
	The season's pleasure grounds and re-
sorts have been overwhelmingly crowded
this year, and the effect upon the young
people especially, cannot be uplifting, so
much hilarity and in many instances up-
roariousness is injurious to both body and 
soul.
	Surely Latter-day Saints will use their
utmost influence to keep their children
from such extremes of gaiety and fashion.
As a people, the Latter-day Saints have
always been moderate. Moderation in
dress and in living has been one of the
virtues with which they are accredited,
even by their enemies.
	Home-making and colonizing, subdu-
ing the waste places is a part of the mis-
sion assigned them, and one which the
fathers and mothers of the present gen-
eration have been faithful in accomplish-
ing. It is to be hoped that owning one's
own home will still be the ambition of our
children. The scriptures deal much with
inheritances, and the pioneers in coming to
these mountain vales established homes
on a permanent basis. It has been the
laudable pride of this people to own
their homes and make them neat with
flowers and trees and furnishings, such as
tend to comfort and true happiness.
	But the custom now of building hotels,
flats and rooming houses, such as are the
fashion in very large cities where land is
expensive, seems to be growing here.
There is room enough in this great west-
ern land for all the children of Zion, to
have homes of their own and to make
them really abiding places. Children
reared even in very lowly homes invari-
ably turn to the home of childhood in
after years as the dearest spot on earth.
Home life is the haven of rest to the wea-
ry toiler; and however far one may wan-
der in search of wealth or pleasure, or on
business bent, or on missions for the Gos-
pel, instinctively the heart yearns for the 
home, be it cottage or mansion.

[Column 3]

	Above all, our sisters should encourage
home making, and use their utmost influ-
ence to keep the home sacred from all
influences that would tend to mar its sanc-
tity. It should be a house of prayer, of
peace, of unity, and all that is holy and
uplifting in spirit and in reality.


AN INTERESTING ENTERTA1NNENT.

	On Saturday evening, August 25th,
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder gave a few of her
friends the pleasure of listening to a ren-
dition of her travels through the Holy
Land; it was a rare occasion; but few
women could have given verbally in such
a delightful way so good a description of
the historic land over which she journeyed
together with the sea-voyage on the
Mediterranean as this speaker did, with-
out references or notes.
	The handsome parlors were softly
lighted seemingly in keeping with the
dreamy oriental style, which was quite
effective.
	After the guests had assembled, the
dining room doors were thrown open and
the hostess led the way to the table.
President Anthon H. Lund, the most
distinguished gentleman present, was
seated at the head of the table, and was
asked to pronounce the blessing.
	The table presented an elegant appear-
ance in its snow white linen, delicate
china, cut glass and silverware. The
repast was delicious and beautifully served
the hostess being assisted by her daughter
Miss May Alder. After partaking of the
sumptuous banquet, the guests repaired
to the parlors and the opening prelude to
the evening talk was that most appro-
priate hymn for such an occasion, “Bab-
ylon, etc.,” rendered with piano accom-
paniment by Mr. Charles Pike, whose
voice is specially adapted to sacred music
and the hymn was charmingly sung.
	Sister Alder’s opening remarks were in
reference to events that led up to her
taking the second voyage across the sea,
and the prophecies that had been made
with regard to her visiting Jerusalem.
She wore a soft white gown and remained
standing while giving the entire descrip-
tion, which occupied over an hour,
only resting when Mr. Pike sang. After
the speaker had gone over the country to
Jerusalem, Mr. Pike sang “The Holy
City,” and one felt almost as if one were
transported to that land of mystery and
lost delight.
	Again after the speaker had taken us
to the Mount of Olives, the city of Naz-
areth, the Sea of Galilee, and so vivid
was the description that we felt almost
as if we were ourselves wandering round
the very  places where our Savior had
travelled in his sojourn on earth, Mr. Pike
rendered sublimely, in sympathetic voice,
the one hymn above all others most in
keeping with the subject, “Galilee, O
Galilee.” To one with spirit attuned to
these lofty themes, the evening’s program
was uplifting in an unusual degree. It
was certainly an intellectual and inspiring
feast; one felt as if brought in contact
with the very scenes and associations so
graphically portrayed.
	Sister Alder invited President Lund to
speak to us, as he had also, some years
since, visited the land of Palestine, and
he gave a brief summary of a few of his
own impressions of the places he visited


mentioning some of the women associ-
ated with the scenes, coming to the well,
for instance, as the women of Biblical
fame did, to fill their earthern jars, with
water; even so they do to this day pre-
serving their ancient customs.
	It was surely an evening long to be re-
membered, and our sincere thanks are
due to the hostess who entertained us so
delightfully.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.	21


[Column 1]
A CHRONICLE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
				II.

	Saturday morning, June 19, 1880, Presi-
dent John Taylor, at that time President
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, met with the sisters in the
Salt Lake Stake Conference in the As-
sembly Hall, in this city, and after ad-
dressing the cengregation for a few min-
minutes, mentioned he had brought with
him the book called “The Law of the
Lord,” and requested Brother L. John
Nuttall to read from the book. Brother
Nuttall then read concerning the organi-
zation of the Relief Society in the Lodge
Room, Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842,
when Mrs. Emma Smith was appointed
president, and Mrs. Sarah M. Cleyeland
and Elizabeth Ann Whitney her coun-
selors.
	After Brother Nuttall had finished read-
ing as directed, President Taylor made
explanatory remarks concerning the or-
ganization and the powers and duties it
gave to women. He stated that Emma
Smith had been previously ordained to
expound the Scriptures, probably by the
Prophet Joseph himself, but he did not
know, however he (President Taylor) said
he was present at that time and was
called upon by Brother Joseph to ordain
Sisters Cleveland and Whitney, Emma’s
counselors. It was then moved and sec-
onded that President Taylor publicly ap-
point Sister Eliza R. Snow president of
all the Relief Society. President Taylor
stated that Sister Eliza had been secre-
tary of the first organization of Relief
Society in Nauvoo, and he then nominat-
ed her for president, and she was sus-
tained by the conference.
	Sister Eliza then chose Sisters Zina D.
H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as
her counselors, who were then nominat-
ed by President Taylor and sustained by
the conference. Also, Sister Sarah M.
Kimball, secretary, and Sister M. Isabella
Horne, treasurer. It was then stated
that those sisters form a central organiza-
tion for all the Relief Society of all the
stakes and missions of Zion.
	At a meeting of the Senior Retrench-
ment Association held in the 14th Ward
Assembly rooms, Saturday, July 17, 1880,
President Taylor came according to prom-
ise previously made, and being invited to
address the sisters said, “I was not aware
until last evening of this, meeting, at least
I had forgotten it, and had arranged to
leave the city this afternoon, going north
to attend meetings at Ogden. I under-
stand that one of the objects of this meet-
ing is the ordination of officers of the Re-
lief Society that were elected at your con-
ference held on Saturday, June 19, 1880,
at the Salt Lake Assembly Hall.” Presi-
dent Taylor in his remarks repeated in
substance what he had said at the confer-
ence previously held on June 19th, and
also said, “As I stated at that time I was

[Column 2]
called upon by the Prophet Joseph and
did then ordain Sisters Whitney and
Cleveland, and blessed Sister Emma and
set her apart. I could not ordain these
sisters to anything more or to greater
powers than had been conferred upon
Sister Emma, who had previously been
ordained to expound the Scriptures, and
Joseph said at that time, that being an
elect lady had its significance, and that
the revelation was then fulfilled in Sister
Emma being thus elected to preside over
the Relief Society.”
	President Taylor set apart the Relief
Society officers as follows:
	‘‘Eliza Roxie Snow Smith, I lay my
hand upon your head in the name of
Jesus, and by the authority of the Holy
Priesthood, I set thee apart to preside
over the Relief Society in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I
confer on thee power and authority, and
ordain thee to this office that thou mayest
have power to expound the Scriptures
and to bless, elevate and strengthen thy
sisters. The Lord is well pleased with
thee, with thy diligence, fidelity and zeal
in the interest of thy sisters. He has
blessed thee exceedingly, and will con-
tinue to bless thee forever and ever,and I
bless thee with all thine heart my desire in
righteousness, and seal upon thee all
former blessings conferred upon thee by
the Holy Priesthood, in the name of
Jesus. Amen.”
	“Zina Diantha Young Smith, I lay my
hand upon thee in the name of Jesus and
by the authority of the Holy Priesthood,
and ordain thee to be First Counselor to
Eliza R. Snow. Honor thy calling which
is an honorable one, sustain and assist
thy president and thou shalt have joy in
thy labors; thou shalt be a wise counsel-
or; the Lord is well pleased with thee
and will sustain thee, and no man shall
deprive thee of thy blessings; thou shalt
have the gift to heal the sick, and thou
shalt be blessed in time and in eternity;
in the name of Jesus. Amen.”
	“Elizabeth Ann Smith Whitney, in the
name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the
virtue of my office and calling in the
Holy Priesthood, I bless thee and set thee
apart to be Second Counselor to Eliza R.
Snow Smith. Thou hast been tried and
found faithful and God has helped thee
and thou shalt be blessed in thine old age;
and thy name shall be honored through
all generations. Thy heart shall be filled
with peace and joy, and thou shalt be a
wise counselor in thine old age. Thou
shalt continue to be esteemed as a moth-
er in Israel, and thou shalt continue to
be blessed as thou has been; and when
thou shalt have finished thy labors, thou
shalt have a place in the celestial king-
dom of God with thine husband. Thou
shalt be blessed with all the blessings and
privileges pertaining to this office and
calling, in the name of Jesus. Amen.”
	“Sarah Melissa Granger Kimball, in the
name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by
virtue of the Holy Priesthood, I set thee
apart to the office of Secretary of the
Relief Society of Zion; to record im-
portant events and keep a faithful record.
Thou shalt be quick to discern and a
ready writer. Seek more earnestly for
the Spirit of the Lord, and thou shalt be
blessed more than thou hast ever had
power to conceive of. As thou hast been
preserved in life, thou shalt contine to be
preserved. I seal upon thee thy former

[Column 3]
blessings, and thou shalt be honored in
time and in eternity, and have a seat in
the celestial kingdom of God, in the
name of Jesus. Amen.”
	President Taylor then said, “God bless
the Treasurer, Sister Horne, and bless
her with every blessing that her heart de-
sires in righteousness, and Sister Bathshe-
ba Smith, and God bless all the faithful
who love Israel and keep God’s com-
mandments, do this and every promise
heretofore made you shall be fulfilled,
and more than now has entered into
your hearts to conceive of.”
	The President then took his leave to
go by afternoon train to Ogden.
	As this was a most extraordinary meet-
ing it certainly should be recorded in
chronological order in connection with
other important facts.
	This was the first general organization.
It will be noticed the others were wards
and stakes, and as Sister Eliza R. Snow
expressed it there was a body but no
head.
	According to the best information ob-
tainable there were twenty stakes organiz-
ed in a Relief Society capacity when the
Central organization was effected by Pre-
sident John Taylor.
	The Eastern Arizona Stake comprised
all the branches of the Society that had
been organized in wards in that Territory
up to that date. That Stake was organiz-
ed about one week after the General So-
ciety officers were appointed.
	Cache Stake which was organized May
19, 1878, should have come in the first
Chronicle but the date was in doubt until
after the paper containing the article was
issued.
	At the Jubilee Conference of the Church
which was celebrated in April 1880 fifty
years after its organization, the women of
this Society had a conspicuous part in the
offerings made to the poor. They gavethe
wheat that they had stored in granaries
and held in reserve for emergencies, and
against a day of famine, to the farmers for
seed; it was a free-will offering pure and
simple, and the sisters were first asked to
vote separately on this question. The
brethren gave of the Church cattle one
thousand cows and five thousand sheep
to widows and the destitute, and half the
debt due to the Perpetual Emigration
Fund was also canceled. These things
made it a memorable Conference in his-
tory, not so much a time of celebrating,
but more a solemn assembly though all
rejoiced in the growth and increase of the
work of the Lord, in the first half century
after its establishment in these last days.
	On the 24th of July following this Ju-
bilee Conference there was a Jubilee ce-
lebration. This was just about a month
after the appointment of the General of-
ficers of the Relief Society, and the event
was then elaborately and appropriately
celebrated, and the Society had the pri-
vilege and pleasure of participating in the
exercises and in the grand street parade
in the City,
	A very large banner was made of home-
spun silk and handsomely embroideaed in
colors. The name of the Society and the
date of its organization, helped to make
the banner quite a historical feature. The
banner is really an expensive one and is
only displayed on great occasions. The
Relief Society at that time the represen-
tative organization of all the sisters was
notified that “A Sentiment From The


[Column 1]
Women Of Utah” was desired among the
exercises. Sister Eliza R. Snow the Presi-
dent selected Sister Emmeline B. Wells
to prepare and read the “Address” for the
women of Utah on that occasion.
	The first report statistical and financial
given of the General Society was at the
April Conference in 1881, and included
Bear Lake, Box Elder, Davis, Juab,
Kanab, Millard, Morgan, Parowan, Salt
Lake, St. George, Sevier, Summit, Tooele,
Utah, and Weber.
	Those Stakes organized that were not
reported were Beaver, Cache, Eastern
Arizona, Panguitch, Wasatch and Little
Colorado. Little Colorado had been or-
ganized since the General officers were
appointed and made twenty one in all,
only fifteen reported.
	Statistical—Total membership 12,288.
Meetings held 1,532. Average attendance,
3,884.
	Financial—On Hand in the several
wards and Stakes one year previous,cash
$3,342.21 cts. Property $24 099.23 cts.
Wheat 9 859 bushels. Reecipts during
the year, cash $3 468.31 cts. Property
$3,513 20 cts. Wheat 670 bushels.
	Disbursements—To the poor $3,468.31
cts. Emigration $210.43 cts. Temples
$1,214.11 cts. Home industries $689.97 cts.
Books $143.13 cts. Missionary $98.70 cts.
Buildings $1,617.47 cts. Indians $66.75 cts.
	Totals on hand cash, property and
wheat $36,822.34 cts.
	President George Q. Cannon passed a
high encomium on the neat and compre-
hensive report the ladies had presented
and the good of the Relief Society and felt
the work should be appreciated by the
people.
	Sandwich Islands, This mission was not
behind in organizing branches of the Re-
lief Society among the sisters in different
parts of the Islands. In a communication
received from there Sister Margaret Cluff
stated at the October Conference held at
Laie, 1879 she had been chosen to take
the Superintendency of all the branches
of the Society in these islands and that
Sisters Sarah Dean, Nellie Alexander and
Gundy Anderson and two native sisters
Kaahamie and Kealohamie were chosen
to assist her in that capacity. These sist-
ers made a tour around to the islands in
the little steamer James McKee. The two
native sisters were not able to accompany
them on account of having small children.
This organization was formed previous to
the appointment of Sister Eliza R Snow
and her assistants; during this visit they
organized in some places where there was
no Society. The Relief Society in the
Sandwich Island mission has always kept
up in complete reports of its work annu-
ally and it has been considered one of the
strongest and best in the Church.
	In a letter to the Secretary, Sarah M.
Kimball from Elder T. C. Griggs he sends
a sort of summary of the Relief Society
in the London Conference, stating there
were three branches. The White Chapel
branch organized March 7, 1879 Elizabeth
Young President, Susan Whitpen and
Susan Waterfall, Counselors, Eliza James,
Secretary.
	The North London branch organized
February 1875. President Avis Cross,
Frances Cornell and Mrs. Frankland,
Counselors, Lovina Cross, Secretary and
Angie Cross, Treasurer. 
	Lambeth branch organized January 9,
1877. President Mrs. Beeching, Emma

[Column 2]
Brown and Emily Ryan Counselors,
Nellie Armitage, Secretary, Jane Hill,
Treasurer.
	Elder Griggs wrote “I send as an item
of interest the first minutes recorded in
the White Chapel Society record; he then
states this Society was organized by Pre-
sident R. T. Burton of the London Con-
ference.
	The next Relief Society organized
abroad was in Liverpool England De
cember 29, 1879 Elder Wm. Budge, Pre-
sident of the European Mission and Elder
James L. Bunting, President of the Liver-
pool Conference were present. Mrs. E.
F. Johnson was elected President, Mrs.
Bennett and Mrs. Scott Anderson, Coun-
selors. Mary Jane Anderson Secretary.
These sisters were then set apart for their
labors. This report for the first year was
a very good one, they had held weekly
meetings, had visited all members, and
distributed tracts from house to house in
their vicinity and taken care of the sick
and poor. The report was signed by the
President and Secretary.
	The Canterbury Relief Society in the
island of New Zealand was organized in
November 1879. Elder N. H. Groesbeck
was present at the meeting reported to
the writer of this article which was signed
by Johanna Larson President and Elida
Larson, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


EDITORIAL NOTES
	The Relief Society Nurses' Class will
open in the L. D. S. University Building
on Monday, September seventeenth Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts Instructor, Emma A.
Empey Superintendent, Phebe J. Beatie
Secretary and Treasurer. Circulars hav-
ing been sent out early this year there
should be a large attendance, for it is a
well-known fact that there are not nurses
enough to supply the demand for skilled
help.
	We have at this office “A Brief History
of the Grain Storing by the Women of
Zion” prepared by a Committee appoint-
ed by General President Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith, it is issued in pamphlet form,
and sells single copies 10 cts. or at the
rate of 12 copies for $1.00. It is a brief
resume of the entire work to date, and
contains two letters from the First Presi-
dency of the Church. We have a Primer
of the Peace Movement sent by Lucia
Ames Mead, Chairman of the Woman’s
Peace Movement in the National Council
of Women, and these Primers, and a
larger book Patriotism and the New Inter-
nationalism are sold 25 cts. for the two
or 10 cts. for the Primer, and 25 cts. for
the larger book, if sold separately.
	We are anxious to get the amount given
by the L. D. S. Relief Society in the se-
veral Stakes, and forwarded to the San
Francisco sufferers at the time of the great
calamity that befell that city, through the
earthquake and fire. The secretary would
like to have full account of all from each
Stake to report at the annual Business
meeting of the Society to be held in this
City, Monday October 1, 1906, in the Salt
Lake Assembly hall, commencing at 2
p.m. Please send the report to Mrs. E.
B. Wells, General Secretary Relief So-
ciety, Templeton Building, Salt Lake
City, Utah.
	The semi-annual Conference of the L.
D. S. Relief Society will be held in the


Salt Lake Assembly hall in this city on
Thursday October 5, 1906, commencing
at 10 o’clock and at 2 p. m. as heretofore.
It is desired that each Stake be represent-
ed by one or more of its Stake officers
and that there should be a goodly attend-
ance of members of this large and flourish-
ing organization. We are hopeful of the
largest Conference that has ever been
held. A cordial invitation is always ex-
tended to those interested in womens’
organizations to come and hear the teach-
ings given at these general Conferences
of this prosperous Society that aims to
bless and elevate all connected there with,
in this and other lands.


IN MEMORIAM.

		OBITUARY AND RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	A most distressing calamity occurred in the fam-
ily of President W. Lunt, when the wife and
mother was summoned by the messenger of death.
Sister Lunt pave birth to a pair of twins on the
morning of July 24. Unfortunately she was on
her mountain ranch when the illness came, and
in only one short hour her spirit took its flight.
	All was done for this dear sister that could be
done under the circumstances. Her remains were
brought to town on the evening of the 24th, which
cast a gloom over the entire community, as she
was loved for her kind and gentle disposition. She
was a faithful wife, a loving mother, and a good
kind friend to all who were brought in contact
with her.
	Mrs. Catherine Gib[-]on Lunt was born Decem-
ber 13. 186[-], was the daughter of David and
Ca[-]her neGranger Gibson, She leaves a husband,
eight children, and a mother, besides a host of
relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
	We, the sisters of the Cedar City Relief Society
convened and resolved:
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call her from us, that her husband has lost a
faithful wife, her children a loving mother, and
her mother a dutiful daughter.
	Resolved, that we mourn her loss as a dear sis-
ter and faithful friend and member of our Relief
Society.
	Resolved, that we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family and pray our Hea-
enly Father to let the comforting influence of his
Holy Sp rit lead them in the path of truth and
righteousness that they may meet their dear mo’h-
er in the great hereafter.
	Resolved, that a copy of the resolutions be
placed in the Record that one be sent to the fam-
ily, and that one be sent to the Woman's Exponent
for publication.
	AMY W. LEIGH, Sec’y Cedar City R S.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Caro-
line Skousen DeWitt, daughter of Patriarch James
N. and Mary Cecil Skousen and wife of Abel A.
De Witt, who departed this life, February 18,
1906, at Eager, Apache Co., Arizona.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His alw'se
providence has seen fit to call from our midst our
beloved sister, Caroline De Witt, secretary and
treasurer for many years of the Relief Society of
the Eager Ward in the St. John’s Stake,
	Resolved, that we recognize in her death, an
able, efficient and devoted saint and au earnest
worker in our Relief Society.
	Resolved that we condole and deeply sympa-
thize with her bereaved husband, children rel-
atives and friends.
	Resolved that we cherish her memory and re-
gard her many virtues as worthy of imitation.
	Resolved that these resolutions be entered in the
Relief Society record, also that copies be furnished
the bereaved family, and the Exponent for pub-
lication.
	Nettie Hunt Rencher, Selina Brown, commit-
tee.


The convention (at Copenhagen) shows
that the movement is more widespread
than most people suspect from the talk
one hears of equal suffrage, in this
country, where the movement receives
but indifferent recognition from the gen-
eral public. That it is destined to grow
everywhere seems certain.—Lancaster
(Pa.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORT.

		WAYNE STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of the
Wayne Stake was held at Loa, July 14,
1906. President Bathsheba W. Grundy
presiding. Besides the Stake officers of
the Relief Society, there were present on
the stand The Stake Presidency and Sist-
ers Ellis R. Shipp, MD. and Priscilla Smith
from General Society. After the usual
opening exercises President Grundy wel-
comed those present and told some of the
conditions of the branches in the stake.
Felt they were a noble band of sisters in
Wayne Stake and looked after the poor
and needy and were trying to do their
duty. Most of the wards had a represen-
tative present and all reported favorably.
	The Conference was addressed by Sist-
ers Shipp and Smith. Presidents Bastian,
Eckersley and Stewart and Patriarch
Blackburn, besides others of the brethren
and sisters.
	Sister Priscilla Smith spoke on the duties
of Relief Society workers. We were to
look after the needy that none might suf-
fer. We should also store our minds with
useful knowledge, and be able to teach
the principles of the Gospel. Encouraged
the sisters to take up mothers work, and
told of the great benefit it would be.
Quoted from President Smith in regard to
mothers keeping the word of wisdom, that
their children might follow their example.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp made some very
interesting and timely remarks. Said that
the Latter-day Saints had always been in
the lead. That when the Relief Society
was organized the Prophet Joseph said,
the key was turned for suffering women,
as the Relief Society was the first organ-
ization of women on the earth. Thought
we hardly appreciated our surroundings
and the gospel, that every thing good,
true and beautiful belonged to the Gospel,
and we should not forget the Giver of our
blessings. Spoke on the Word of Wisdom
and the necessity of mothers teachiug it
to their children and said that in keeping
it the Angel of death might pass them by.
Advised mothers to keep a smiling face,
and their homes would be happy always,
and love the ruling power; alluded to the
power of prayer, and of placing our trust
in our heavenly Father, and He would
sustain us in all of our trials.
	During the noon hour dinner was prep-
ared and tables set, by the sisters of the
Loa Society, in one room of the building,
for every one present at the Conference.
	The tables were loaded with the good
things of life, and all seemed to do ample
justice to the same. Good Cheer and hand
shaking, was one of the principal features,
and a splendid good time was the result.
In fact all voted it one of the best and
most successful Relief Society Conferen-
ces ever held in Wayne Stake; and all left
with a desire in their hearts to continue
in well doing, serve the Lord and keep
His commandments, that they might have 
his spirit to be with them always.
				ORILLA SHEFFIELD
								Secretary.
					Secretary.

		ENSIGN STAKE.

The Relief Society conference of En-
sign stake was held in the Eleventh ward
meeting house July 13, 1906, commencing
at 10 a.m. Pres. Margaret A. Romney
presiding. Sister Ethel Conelly organist.
After the exercises of singing and prayer,

[Column 2]
a quartette was rendered by Brothers
Maxwell and Foster and Sisters Hull and
Odell, which was a pleasing feature of the
morning session.
	After roll call and minutes, the secre-
tary read the statistical and financial re-
ports for the six months ending June 30.
Pres. Romney commented on the large
attendance and expressed her gratitude
over the accurate reports that had been
offered.
	A young ladies trio sang “One hundred
years ago.”
	The seven presidents of the wards re-
ported verbally their condition.
	The representative of the General
Board, Sister Alice Merrill Horne, re-
quested the secretary to read the report
of the San Francisco relief fund—the
amount contributed by the Ensign stake:
Cash, bedding, clothing,$451.85; one case
of tomatoes; four hundred loaves of bread.
	Sister Horne then talked about the San
Francisco calamity and Relief Society
topics.
The quartette sang, “Who are these ar-
rayed in white?”
	Counselor Minnie H. James spoke on
general Relief Society work; her remarks
were timely, practical and beautiful.
	Sister Carrie S. Platt next addressed
the conference.
	Solo, “Only remembered by what we
have done,” by Margaret C. Hull.
	Sister Rachel D. Davis and Sister Han-
nah Lapish talked for a few minutes.
	After singing and prayer, meeting ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	Luncheon was served to all assembled
during the noon hour.
	Afternoon session opened with singing
by quartette, “I know that my Redeemer
liveth.”
	Counselor Rebecca E. Little presented
the general and local authorities of Relief
Society to be voted upon—there was no
dissenting vote.
	Sister Alice M. Horne spoke on singing,
entertainments, protection of the young
people.
	Bishop Thomas A. Williams spoke on
“Economy of work.” A beautiful solo,
“Babylon,”—Sister Elma Young.
	Pres. Joseph Wells addressed the con-
ference. Bishop Frank Platt made a few
remards.
	Brother Wm. H. Foster sang, “Provi-
dence is over all.”
	Bishop Geo. Romney eulogized Relief
Society work and expressed the gratitude
he felt towards the organization. Brother
Livingston, of the Eleventh ward, also
spoke.
	Singing, Doxology, Benediction by
Annie Kay Hardy.
		Annie Kay Hardy, secretary.

		LIBERTY STAKE.

The semi-annual Conference of Liberty
Stake Relief Society convened in the 2nd
Ward meeting house, Salt Lake City, 
June I, 1906, President Annie S. Musser
presiding.
	Commenced by prayer and the usual
opening exercises, and reading of annual
report of 1905.
	President Musser made a few opening
remarks.
	A solo was rendered by Sister Eva
James.
	Counselor Zerviah G. Eardley made a
few remarks on the Peace meeting, and
urged the sisters not to neglect the Tem-

[Column 3]
ple work and to observe order in that holy
building.
	Counselor Mary E. Hodgson spoke of
the Relief Society excursion to Saltair,
on July 19th, and urged all to attend.
	Sister Emily S. Richards of the general
board said that we were the next organiz-
ation to the Priesthood, and a great re-
sponsibility rested upon us. Mother is the
central figure of the home, and should
endeavor to preserve a spirit of love and
peace there at all times, and cultivate
faith; related many incidents of healing
by faith.
	Part of the branches of the stake were
reported in a prosperous condition by the
following sisters: Counselor Sarah Hilton,
1st ward; Secretary Hazel White, 2nd
ward; President Emily Weiler, 3rd ward;
and President Sarah Jane Chamberlain,
8th ward.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp of the general
board felt that we have much to be thank-
ful for, and great opportunity to do good.
	Adjourned until 2 p. m.; singing and
benediction.

	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock,
President Annie S. Musser presiding.
	Continued by singing “Redeemer of
Israel,” etc., with customary exercises.
	Counselor Hodgson presented the
names of the General Board, also the
names of the Stake Board; all were
unanimously sustained.
	Sister Lottie P. Baxter said that she
considered the Relief Society the crown-
ing auxiliary organization of the Church;
read passages from the scriptures, and
quoted poetry, to encourage the teachers
in their labors, and referred to the unsel-
fish work of the Savior.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp felt that the gos-
pel was beyond price, and we should seek
to set an example to the world, and bring
a knowledge of the gospel to them. Let
us have the spirit of love, humility and
patience in our homes; draw nearer to
our children, gain their confidence in all
things, and at all times and live to do
good to others, for kind words are never
lost, and we will have joy ourselves.
	Sister Clara E. James spoke encour-
agingly to the teachers; do not lose sight
of the little things, for we may gain bless-
ings by performing them.
	Sister Emily S. Richards urged us to be
united, and harmonious in all our under-
takings and continue to progress.
	President Musser made a few closing
remarks.
	Adjourned for six months by singing
“The time is far spent,” etc.
	Benediction Sister Lizzie Woolley.
			Lizzie Robbins, Secretary.

		PIONEER STAKE.
	Minutes of the Pioneer Stake Relief
Society Conference, held July 13, 1906,
in the Stake Hall. After the opening ex-
ercises, reports from the various wards
were given. President Annie W. Cannon
expressed her pleasure in meeting with
the sisters and was gratified in hearing
reports from all the wards.
	Sisters Elizabeth S. Wilcox and Julia
P. M. Farnsworth of the General Board
were present, and after all business had
been attended to, Sister Wilcox addressed
us; words of love and instruction were
conveyed and all enjoyed the Spirit of
the Lord that accompanied the words of
the speaker.


President A. W. Cannon explained
about our Mothers’ Work for the benefit
of our visitors, and made closing remarks
—meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock.

	Afternoon session. President Annie W.
Cannon presiding. After the opening ex-
ercises, Sister Pettit gave a brief report
of the branches throughout the stake,and
closed her remarks with a blessing on all
Relief Society workers.
	Sister Gertrude Sampson, secretary of
the Seventh Ward Relief Society gave a
talk on “Patriotism.” Reference was
made to our people when they responded
so nobly to the calls that were made in
early days in the valley. “Our Father has
said we must serve Him with our might
mind and will, and in obeying the com-
mandments which he has given us we are
patriotic to the laws of the land.”
	Sister Farnsworth said this was her
first visit to us, and she had enjoyed
hearing the reports and also Sister Samp-
son’s talk on patriotism; referred to the
noble response made by the sisters of
Pioneer Stake when the call was made
for aid in behalf of the California suffer-
ers; was much pleased to know we were
gathering grain; urged the sisters to send
able women to the Nurses’ Class, and
hoped we would continue to sustain our
President and her counselors; prayed that
the time should come when we should
stand at the head of all women in the
world, and that we might ever be blessed
in our work. Amen.
	The officers and General Board of
the Relief Society and officers and mis-
sionaries of Pioneer Stake Relief Society
were read and unanimously sustained by
by vote. Mrs. Eva Richardson rendered
a piano solo very beautifully.
	President William McLachlan desired
the Spirit of the Lord to rest down upon
him while he addressed us.  “The work
of the priesthood is to fill missions where-
by they obtain testimonies. The sisters
may gain testimonies by their faithful
work in the Relief Society.” Urged us
to put all hatred out of our hearts, and
cultivate a feeling of love one for anoth-
er. The necessity of observing the Sab-
bath day and keeping it Holy was forcibly
told. When the Lord speaks He de-
mands our attention. Let us give it and
He will bless us.
	Sister Mary Alice Lambert gave a brief
outline of her recent travels abroad; was
very proud of our young men who are in
the mission field; reminded the young
mothers that they had a great mission to
fill in properly rearing their children.
	Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon regretted
she was unable to attend our morning
meeting but had enjoyed what she had
heard greatly; agreed with previous
speakers that great responsibility rested
on mothers; but thought quite as much
depended on fathers if they did their
duty; prayed for all who were interested
in Relief Society work.
	President Annie W. Cannon reminded
the sisters that on the 19th of July the
four stakes were to go to Saltair. Hoped
for a good attendance.
	Conference adjourned until December
9th, 1906; singing “Come, Come Ye
Saints;” benediction by Sister Pettit.
	CLAIRE L. CLAWSON,
	Secretary.
	ONEIDA STAKE.

	Conference of the Relief Society of
Oneida stake convened in the Academy
at Preston, Idaho, June 13, 1906, 10 a.m.,
President Louisa B. Benson presiding.
There were present of the General Board
Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde and Julia
P. M. Farnsworth, of the stake board five
members. After the opening exercises
and reading of minutes, the financial and
treasurer’s report were approved. Solo,
“Not half has ever been told,” by Flor-
ence B. Jonasson.
	General and stake officers unanimously
sustained.
	Pres. Benson said this meeting was for
the officers. All the branches of the
stake present reported work as being in
good condition; Mothers’ work especially
doing much good. Franklin, Weston,
Treasureton and Glendale were not fully
organized. Preston first ward has a room
in new meeting house to meet in. Ma-
pleton built a new granary during the
year. Pres. Benson advised a review of
outline for Mothers’ work, also taking
the lessons on keeping the Sabbath day.
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde spoke of
blessings obtained through Relief Society
work, also through earnest prayer, also of
the exalted calling of mothers, of the Sab-
bath day, explained that our organizations
were a blessing, but did not come before
care of children, advised the appointment
of a committee to visit and welcome new
families.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth brought greet-
ings from Pres. B. W. Smith, of the Re-
lief Society, spoke of all Gospel workers
having one aim, told of our people as-
sisting the sufferers in San Francisco.
	Pres. Benson announced that meetings
throughout the stake would be held on
the first and third Wednesdays of each
month, also advised all to buy a volume
entitled “School and Fireside,” by
Karl G. Maeser. Reported the Stake
Relief Society as being in good condition,
the board were united, supported by local
presidents and stake presidency.
	After singing and prayer, meeting ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	LINDA N. BENSON, Cor. sec.
	( Continued in our next issue )


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO. 
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you 
as much as possible for your money. TRY US 
Save Your Money! 

[Column 2]
And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust 
Company, the oldest and largest savings 
bank in Utah. 
Since the establishment of the bank 
we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
ings accounts. 
The laws of Utah permit married-
women and also children who are mino ,
to open savings accounts in their own 
name, subject to their own order. Have 
you such an account? If not, open 
one NOW 
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said 
interest Semi-annually. 
WRITE for any information desired. 
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest. 
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier. 
No. 1 East Temple Street.


The Queen of Denmark granted an
hour's interview to Mrs. Carrie Chapman
Catt just before the meeting of the Inter-
national Woman Suffrage Alliance, which
was in session in Copenhagen during
August, and expressed her warm interest
in the movement. Judging from the press
dispatches, the convention was a great
success.			Ex.


VISITS OF MISSIONARIES.
Stakes visited by missionaries sent from
the General Board of the Relief Society,
during the month of August, 1906.
    San Luis Stake, Monday, August 6,
Conference at Manassa, Colorado, Sis-
ters Sarah Jenne Cannon and Harriet B.
Harker. Morgan, Tuesday, August 7, in
Morgan City, conference in Stake meet-
ing house, Counselor Annie T. Hyde and
Sister Priscilla P. Jennings.
    Union, Thursday, August 6,  confer-
ence at La Grande, Oregon, in Stake
meeting house, Counselor Ida S. Dusen-
berry and Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
The sisters also met with the Ward Re-
lief Society in Baker City, Oregon and in
Emmet, Idaho. 
    Bingham, Thursday, August 23, at 
Idaho Falls, Idaho, conference in the
meeting house, Counselor Ida Smoot
Dusenberry and Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
    Jordan, Monday, August 27, conference
at Riverton, in Ward meeting house,
Sisters Ellis R. Shipp and Isabel M. W.
Sears. This visit was made by invita-
tion of the Stake president, as Jordan
Stake had been visited officially in May


As was announced last week by dispatch
from Helsingfors, August 19, the Czar has
confirmed for Finland what he refused for
Russia. He has signed an act granting
universal suffrage, without distinction of 
sex, and specially permitting women to
become members of the Finnish Parlia-
ment, and to occupy any position under
Parliament from Speaker downwards.
    Madame Jorgenson, a leader of the
Finnish equal rights movement, predicts
that many women will stand as candidates
at the first general election. She says:
    "Women will support female candi-
dates until such time as all the legal dis-
abilities of women are repealed. We ex-
pect to have nine or ten women members
in the first reformed Parliament, which
will open every profession to women.
    "The army we do not want to enter and
expect no candidates for the police. But
there is no reason why we should not 
command ships. On the lakes in the far
North many women run small steamers.
    "We have met practically no opposi-
tion from men, and that in my opinion 
gives Finland a right to claim a higher
status in civilization than any other
European country.”—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
