Vol. 35 						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, MAY, 1907.						No. 9


CONTENTS.
Bathsheba W. Smith. (With Portraits..............
	...................................Emmeline B Wells	65
Mother’s Work:—Tooele Stake.......................	66
Notes and News...............................................	66
Annual Day, March 17, 1907...........................	67
In Memoriam...................................................	67
Relief Society Reports:—Hyrum Stake...........	67
	Uintah Stake.............................................	71
	Union Stake..............................................	71
	Nebo Stake...............................................	72	
	Maricopa Stake........................................	72
	Afton, Wyoming......................................	72
Editorial:—The Officers of the Relief Society
	.................President Bathsheba W. Smith	68
	Eighty-Five Years Young.........................	68
	Seventy-Seventh Annual Conference......	69
	Peace Meetings........................................	69
	General - Conference	of	the 	Relief
		Society..............................................	70
	Editorial Notes..........................................	69
Poetry:—Bring Flowers...........Lydia D. Alder	65
	Woman, The Missionary..........................
		............................Grace Ingles Frost	66
	Life and Death..................Ernest Crosby	67
	Unkissed Children....................................	67


BRING FLOWERS

Bring flow’rs, but to the living;
	Hearts bleed and die for love—
One blossom pure and simple,
	A kindly thought will prove.
As rain revives the roses,
	That droop ’neath summer’s heat,
So will a love-thought brighten,
	Be sorrows e’er so deep.

The living need the flowers;
	Bring one, if only one;
Or if it be a hand clasp,
	’Twill cheer like to the sun.
Withhold not, till death freezing
	The heart that cries in pain,
Hath stilled its cry forever—
	Then flowers are in vain.

For closed eyes can see not,
	Though we be dim with grief;
Then tell them, while yet living,
	Of faith in them—belief.
The drooping life ’twill stengthen
	With heart-beats warm and fast;
The burden will be lighter,
	The trials soon o’erpast.

A flow’r e’en though ’tis fading,
	Gift in a darken’d room,
Spreads fragrance with its beauty—
	Dispels the densest gloom.
The sun may shine tomorrow
	Across a grave of flowers
And yet the silent sleeper
	Heeds not these gifts of ours.

Then bring a tiny blossom,
	If love be in thine heart
’Twill cause the tears to trickle,
	Relieve the cruel smart.
A fervent prayer to heaven
	Will soar on wings of love,
Rise to the shining portals—
	Your treasure up above.

Thus are we paid for giving—
	For gifts alone live on;
Love’s flowers—unfaded, glowing—
	Bloom’fore the Eternal Throne.
Oh, happy, then the mortal
	Who of his store gives free!
Love’s off’rings fair, bloom everywhere—
	Flow’rs of Eternity.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
[Photograph of Bathsheba Smith]
	The pictures on this page speak for
themselves, one taken in the prime of life
the other at an advanced age.
	Among the noble women of Zion who
have attained honor and distinction in
this Latter-day dispensation, the subject
of this brief sketch stands pre-eminent.
	Born of goodly parents in one of the
most beautiful country places in old Vir-
ginia her mind was inclined to love that
which was good; virtue, honesty and
truthfulness; as a child she was of a re-
ligious tendency and attended to secret
prayers, and it has been a habit all her
life; she was also of a cheerful and happy
disposition, which she has ever retained;
she thoroughly enjoyed her home life and
its natural advantages and freedom, its
simple yet dignified environments.
	In the home, which was a typical do-
mestic one, she was taught housewifery in
all its departments; for in those early days
besides plain housework all the “arts and
crafts” were taught in the household, such
as carding, spinning, weaving, both wool
and flax, and in Southern homes, cotton;
fine sewing, hem-stitching and embroid-
ery were among the accomplishments of
the young ladies, as well as singing, danc-
ing and playing old style musical instru-
ments.
	Miss Bigler as a girl, was fond of out-
door life, and flowers (she has always culti-
vated) trees, groves and streamlets, and
all the hills and dales around her father’s
farm far and near were familiar to her,
and she took pleasure in rambling over
them on horseback; when a young girl
she was an expert and fearless rider, and
this healthful exercise together with her
home training developed in her those
strong characteristics of endurance that
are exceptional among women. Her early
life seems to have been a fitting prepar-
ation for her future usefulness; not only
as a wife and mother, but for the many
public positions of various kinds she has
been called at different times to fill, during
her long and eventful career.
	Accepting the Gospel in her early girl-
hood, she became convinced, through an
answer to her prayers, that Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of the Lord, and that the
Book of Mormon was a divine record.


[Photograph of a woman]
	Strange indeed that there in the dear
home she should meet as a minister of the
Gospel, the man who was destined to be
her future lover, and husband, and after-
ward through that subtle intuition or
shall one say, the spirit of prophecy she
was conscious of the mutual attraction.
	The Bigler family were converted to
the truth and sold the homestead so dear
to them all, and journeyed by team to
Missouri, the gathering place of the Saints
at that time. It was in the days of the
most severe  persecutions. Sister Bath-
sheba is a living witness of many of those
dreadful tragedies. In 1840, the family
moved to Nauvoo, Illinois, where the
Prophet Joseph was then located, and
there Sister Bathsheba had such oppor-
tunities of hearing the Prophet Joseph,
as it is our opinion no one else now living
has enjoyed.
	On the 25th of July, 1841, she was mar-
ried to George A. Smith, a favorite cousin
of the Prophet, and the youngest mem-
ber of the Twelve Apostles. Then the
dream of her girlhood was realized for
this union was a perfect one, and she
was buoyantly happy, as the beloved wife
and companion of an honored and fav-
ored Apostle and leader in Israel. Mrs.
George A. Smith was eminently qualified
for the place she occupied; she had the
womanly reserve of manner and the good
taste in dress that won the admiration of
all, and adds to the dignity of woman-
hood.
	We know whereof we speak when we
say, she was greatly admired by Brig-
ham Young, and he was a man of most
excellent judgment of people. She was
always invited by him on great occasions.
It may be thought frivolous in the writer
to tell these things, but though Sister
Bathsheba occupies at the present time,
(and has for many years) an exalted place
among the sisterhood of the Church, yet
she is withal a woman, with ideas, feel-
ings, sentiments and attachments like
others of her fellow associates, therefore
one may be pardoned in writing of her
as “Our President,” if reference be made
to her womanly qualities.
	Sister Smith was privileged to minister
in the holy ordinances of the House of the
Lord in the Temple in Nauvoo. When
the sacred ordinances were first adminis-


tered here, she was called to officiate, and
in all the Temples that have been erected
in these mountain vales she has partici-
pated in this sacred work.
	There is no woman living that has such
a record in this line of work. When the
Salt Lake Temple was opened for ordin-
ances, after the dedication, she took first
place, (Sister Zina D. H. Young, who
had precedence, being unavoidably ab-
sent) and she has, up to this date, never
been away from her post one day in all
these fourteen years, since May 22, 1893,
She has ministered to thousands and tens
of thousands of the daughters of Zion,
who rise up and call her blessed.
	After the death of our dearly beloved
General President of the Relief Society
of the Church, Zina D. H. Young, Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith was appointed to
fill the place of General President over
the Relief Society in all the world. Like
her illustrious husband, who was never
late, and never away from his post of duty
except by sickness, she has been present
and presided at every General Confer-
ence of the Society, and at every meeting
of the Board of Directors, during her term
of office, which commeuced in November,
1901. No more fitting encomium of her
life could be written than the following
quotation from the Bible: “Give her of
the fruits of her hands and let her own
works praise her within the gates.”

			A PORTRAIT.
	A queenly woman, statuesque and grand—
Regal in manner, courteous in command,
Of reverential presence, and her face,
Radiantly fair, beaming with hope and grace,
Her valiant life one long, sweet symphony,
Of duty, love, and soulful harmony.
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN, THE MISSIONARY.
	(Dedicated to Sister Laura Bennion, who has
recently departed on a mission to the Northern
States.)

		BY GRACE INGLES FROST.
Woman, thou who art so weak, and yet so strong,
Where upon the battle fields of life
Hast thou not stood?
And where may be the path that doth not bear
The impress of thy feet?
’Twas thou who gave our Lord and Savior birth;
’Twas on thy breast His infant head reposed;
Beside thy knee His childish prayer was lisped.
And when He upon the cross was nailed by those
He came to save,
’Twas thou who longest at His feet didst weep
Aye, and while within the sepulchre He lay,
’Twas thou who first didst visit there,
And unto thee it was that He first spoke,
When He had loosed the bands of death,
And rose triumphant from the tomb.

But though upon the field Thou didst appear
As one who acted well a mighty part,
’Twas not Thy right of heavenly things to speak
Like unto Him Thy head, 
Until the Light of Heaven had pierced the gloom
That for long years didst hover o’er the earth,
And God, in His great mercy and His love,
Restored unto mankind the gospel plan
In all its fulness.

Behold the woman now. called to go forth
With man unto the nations of the earth,
Bearing gladsome tidings of great joy
To those who in the gloom of darkness sit.
And has she on this field of action failed 
Her part to do?
Ask those with whom she labors side by side—
Ask those who in affliction’s hour have felt
The comfort of her kindly word and deed—
Ask those who on the streets have heard her voice
Raised in defence of truth, or prayer to God.


Hath not the heart of many a one been touched
While listening to those words of simple faith?
Hath not the mind of many a godless one
Been caused to turn back on the wheels of thought,
Unto the time when it in innocence
Had learned to pray be[-]ide a mother's knee,
And thus in looking back awakened into life
The higher, better self,
And caused it to reflect on what might be?
Full many a door hath woman’s hand unfastened,
That for long years did man’s bold knock resist.
And might have for all time since been unclosed
To gospel truth.
Had woman not been called unto the field.


[Column 1]
			MOTHERS’ WORK.
	TOOELE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY.
			The life of the Savior.
	Lesson I. The Nativity.
	(a) Relate the circumstances which hap-
pened prior to the birth of our Savior.
(b) Who was his Mother, and where was
he born? (See Matt. I Chap.) (c) Tell
what other great man were born about
the same time that Jesus was. (d) Relate
some of the customs in vogue at the time
of our Savior’s birth.
	Lecture II. The childhood of our Sa-
vior.
	(a) Why were Joseph and Mary at
Bethlehem at that time? (b) Relate the
visit of the wise men and what guided
them to the birthplace, and why they did
not return to the king. (c) Of what
lineage was the promised Savior to be.
Matt, 11th chap. (d) At what time did
Jesus first speak of doing his Father’s
work?
	Lecture III. John the Baptist as a
forerunner of Christ.
	(a) Tell what the ancient Prophets said
about a forerunner of Christ. (b) When
was John ordained to the ministry? (c)
When and by whom was John baptized?
(d) What relation were John and Jesus to
each other? (St. Luke I Chap.) (e) Where
did John make his home when he became
a man? (f) How old was John when he
began his ministry? (g) Why did the
Jews believe in John’s ministry? (h) In
what way did John prepare the way for
Christ’s mission?
	Lecture IV. Baptism and Temptation.
	(a) Tell of Christ’s baptism and what
happened at that time. (b) By whom
was he baptized? (Matt. III Chap.) (c)
How old was Jesus when he was baptized?
(d) Did Jesus feel that he would fulfill
the popular expectation? (e) Relate his
experiences in the wilderness. (Matt. IV
Chap.) (f) What object did Satan have
in trying to tempt Jesus?
	Lecture V. Christ’s Ministry.
	(a) When was Jesus ready to begin his
public work? (b) Where did he first ap-
pear after his temptation? (c) What did
John testify regarding Jesus? (John I
Chap.) (d) Tell the first recorded sign
of Jesus power. (e) Name the 3 first dis-
ciples of Jesus. (John I Chap., 35 to 47
verse.)
	Lecture VI. His Miracles.
	(a) Relate the Savior’s first recorded
miracle. (b) What did the Jews think
when Jesus cured the man who had been
ill 38 years, on the Sabbath day. (St.
John V Chap.) (c) Tell what you can

[Column 2]
about the miracle of feeding the multi-
tude. (St. John VI Chap.) (d) What
other miracle was performed on the Sab-
bath day?
	Lecture VII. His Miracles (continued).
(a) Relate the miracle in which Jesus
made the blind man to see. (St. John
IX Chap.) (b) Tell of Jesus raising the
ruler’s daughter from the dead. (Matt.
IX Chap.) (c) Relate the raising of
Lazarus.
	Lecture VIII. The Parables.
	(a) Relate the parable of the Sower.
(b)What lesson does the parable of the
tares teach? (c) What do you under-
stand from the parable of the laborers?
(d) Relate the parable of the ten virgins.
	Lecture IX. The Parables (continued).
	(a) Relate the parable of the good Sa-
maritan. (b) Tell the parable of the great
supper. (c) Relate the parable of the
piece of silver. (d) What do you under-
stand from the parable of the prodigal
son? (e) What can we learn from the
parable of the unjust steward?
	Lecture X. The Transfiguration.
	(a) Tell who was with Jesus at the time
of His transfiguration. (b) How long
were they to wait before telling it to the
people? (c) What was God’s testimony
to the disciples at this time? (d) Tell the
most beautiful passage in the discourse
on humility and forgiveness. (Matt.
XVIII Chap.) (d) Tell of the feast of
the tabernacle where it was held, how
long it lasted. (St. John VIII Chap.)
	Lecture XI. The last Supper.
	(a) Tell of the feast of the passoyer,
Why was it instituted? (Ex. XII Chap.,
1-30 verses). (b) Relate the events of
the last supper. (Matt. XXIV Chap.)
(c) When and where was the sacrament
instituted, By whom was Jesus betrayed!
(d) Describe Jesus’ prayer in the garden
of Gethsemane. (e) How and where was
Jesus at last arrested. Tell the story of
Peter’s three fold denial of the Savior.
	Lecture XII. The Crucifixion and Re-
surrection.
	(a) Relate the incidents of His cruci-
fixion and the fulfilling of the prophesy of
Isaiah. (b) Tell His last words on the
cross. (Isaiah LIII Chap.) (c) What
did He say to the thieves on the cross?
(d) Tell of His death and burial. (e) How
was His tomb sealed. (f) Tell of the
stone removed, the resurrection proclaim-
ed.
			ALICE R. WOOLLEY,
						President.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Baroness Alexandra Gripenberg received
the largest vote of any candidate nominat-
ed for the Parliament of Finland by the
Old Finnish party.
	Senora Zelaya, wife of President Zela-
ya of Nicaragua, is said to have made 
herself the idol of the Nicaraguan army by
her active service at the head of the Red
Cross in the recent battles between the
Hondurans and Nicaraguans. She rode
more than 150 miles on muleback to reach
the scene of battle.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LIFE AND DEATH.
So he died for his faith. That is fine—
	More than most of us do.
But, say, can you add to that line
	That he lived for it, too?

In his death he bore witness at last 
	As a martyr to truth,
Did his life do the same in the past
	From the days of his youth?
 
It is easy to die. Men have died
	For a wish or a whim—
From bravado, or passion, or pride,
	Was it harder for him?

But to live—every day to live out
	All the truth that he dreamt,
While his friends met his conduct with doubt
	And the world with contempt.

Was it thus that he plodded ahead,
	Never turning aside?
Then we’ll talk of the life that he lived,
	Never mind how he died.
					ERNEST CROSBY,


UNKISSED CHILDREN.
The world’s a rare and joyous place
	For those who deem it so;
With smiles enough for every face—
	This is no tale of woe.
But yet, when all’s been done and sai[-],
	Some little children creep,
At cuddling time, unkissed to bed 
	And sob themselves to sleep

Their daddy’s off at work, somewhere,
	Their mammy’s tired and worn,
Both burdened down with carking care
	From the first break of morn.
Each love-starved young one on the list
	Has troubles by the heap,
Yet each must go to bed unkissed
	And sob himself to sleep.

Oh, world of sunshine mixed with storm,
	Oh, world of tears and joy,
Oh, world of frozen hearts and warm,
	Oh, world of man and boy!
Less were your sorrow, less your dread,
	If, when night’s shadows creep,
Each little lad went kissed to bed
	And smiled himself to sleep,


ANNUAL DAY, MARCH 17, 1907.
	The Relief Society held its meeting in
the Central School house in Fillmore,
Utah. After the opening exercises, the
following program was rendered:
	Opening address, Stake President Isa-
bella Robison; Song, Helen Greenwood;
Reading, Clara M. Swallow; Address, El-
der Christian Anderson; Reminiscences,
Helen Callister; Recitation, Francis Ras-
muson; Closing address, President of Fill-
more R. S., Melissa Olsen.
	We also have to record the death of
Sister Maggie Starley while driving with
her husband—the horses became fright-
ened and ran away. Sister Starley
jumped from the buggy, her dress became
entangled and she was dragged some dis-
tance, and when Brother Starley—who
was thrown from the vehicle—reached
her he found her quite dead. This comes
as a severe shock to Fillmore, where
Sister Starley has lived since childhood,
and where she was much beloved. The
appended resolution expresses our sorrow
and bereavement.
	CLARA M. SWALLOW, Secretary.

			RESOLUTIONS:
	Whereas, our heavenly Father, in His infinite
wisdom, has seen fit to call from our midst ou
much esteemed and beloved Sister Maggie Wade
Starley, who departed this life April 14th, 1907.


And Whereas, our intimate association with her
in the performance of her duties as a teacher in
the Relief Society of the Fillmore ward has so en-
deared her to us that we feel it necessary and be-
fitting to express our appreciat[-]on of her labors in
our Society, and of her earnest endeavor to do
right, of her strong integrity and faithfulness in the
Gospel, in which she was an earnest worker; al-
ways ready to perform any duty assigned her, no
matter what the call might be, Sister Maggie
could always be relied upon.
	She was a devoted daughter to her mother; a
faithful and loving helpmate to her husband, and
a kind, tender and affectionate mother to her chil-
dren.
	Be it Resolved, that we, the sisters of the Relief
Society, do most deeply mourn the loss of so faith-
ful a sister, and feel that it is hard to become rec-
onciled to her death, but are willing to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things.
	Be it Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt
sympathy to her mother, husband, and children,
and ask God to bless them and, cause them to
know that He is their Friend. Also that He wiil
comfort their wounded hearts in this hour of trou-
ble and sorrow.
	Be it further Resolved, that these resolutions be
entered in the minutes of our Relief Society, a
copy given to the bereaved family of the deceased,
and a copy sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
				MELISSA OLSEN, President.
				ELIZA STARLEY.
				LAVALLA MELVILLE,
							Counselors.


To the memory of Mrs. Minnie Belle Ferris, wife
of Daniel Ferris and daughter of the late Robert
Till and M. A. Till, born August 3rd, 1866, and
died Easter Morning 1907, at the home of her
mother in Provo after a lingering illness of Brights
disease.
	She left a husband and three children; one hav-
ing preceded her; and many relatives and friends
to mourn her loss for she was beloved by all who
knew her; being of a loving and cheerful disposi-
tion and was faithful and true to all and to her re-
ligion, ever shedding a good influence and a help-
ing hand. 
	She resided at Mammoth, Utah, the last few
years of her life and among the floral emblems
was a beautiful Star on a pedestal from the Relief
Society of that district; and some members of that
ward came to attend the funeral showing marked
love and respect for the deceased. 
			ZELLA LITCHFIELD,
			MATHILDA OLSEN.
Provo, May 1st, 1907.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Another earnest, faithful worker in the Relief
Society has been called home to her rest. After
suffering for some time with pneumonia, Sister
Ellen Blackhurst McLelland passed peacefully
away on the morning of March 18, 1907, lovingly
ministered unto by her three daughters, who were
with her in her last illness.
	Sister McLelland was born in Longton, Lanca-
shire, England. November 10, 1837. Her mother
died in Winter Quarters, leaving the little girl of
eight years of age to be a mother to two young
brothers—one a young babe; and lovingly and
truly did she perform her part. On the arrival of
the family in Salt Lake City in the early fall of
1847, they made their home in the Seventh ward,
where she still resided at the time of her death.
While assisting her father in the Big Field to drive
away the crickets, her baby brother, who was her
constant charge, toddled to’ the creek and in an
attempt to obtain a drink, fell in and was drowned.
	Later she married Thomas McLelland, at one
time Bishop of the Seventh ward, and passed
through a full share of the trials and difficuties of
those early days. With ever a cheeful smile and
a kindly word, she gained the love of all acquaint-
ed with her. She always saw the good qualitie-
of others, and overlooked or did not seem to diss
cern their failings.
	A member of the Relief Society since early
times, she was always to be relied upon in her
duties as a teacher, and endeared herself to her
companions and associates, and the Relief Society
of the Seventh ward feel they have lost a stalwart,
faithful member and loving sister.
	The funeral services were held in the Pioneer
Stake house March 20, where the speakers paid
worthy tributes to her unassuming, patient, cheer-
ful life in all circumstances and conditions.
			ELLEN BROADBENT, President.
			GERTRUDE SAMPSON, Secretary.


A TRIBUTE
	To the Memory of five good women, members
of the Sixth Ward, Relief Society, Provo City,
Utah, who have past hence in about twelve months,
and whose demise we wish to chronicle in the co-
lumns of the EXPONENT.
	Sister Helen Alexander, daughter of Bro How-
ard and Sister Martha Corey, was well and favor-
ably known, was a very intelligent person and de-
voted to her family.
	She filled a mission, in company with her hus-
band to the Sandwich Islands years ago.
	She was a great sufferer before her death and
entreated God to release her from pain. She died
a faithful Latter-day Saint.

	Sister Elizabeth Cook Kirkwood, was a teacher
in our Relief Society and a member of the Old
Folks Committee whom she delighted to honor.
She was consistent in all her callings and much
respected by all who knew her, and was true and
faithful to the religion she had espoused and in
the sacred order of marriage.
	She was an example to her children and in all
her walks of life, and departed hence much be-
loved.

	Sister Maria Jones, daughter of the late Bishop
Loveless and his wife Josephine, passed away al-
most suddenly, although she had been subject to
ailments
	She was a teacher in our Relief Society, was of
a kind and loving nature, one beloved by a circle
of relatives and friends.

	Sister Eliza Barney Wilkins lived true to her
covenants in celestial marriage, was an affectionate
wife and mother, faithful Latter-day Saint, a
teacher in our Relief Society, and Chairman of the
wheat committee.
	Always willing to help in sickness and in laying
out the dead. She passed away in the full assur-
ance of a glorious resurrection.

	Sister Ann Palen Jones embraced the Gospel in
England and came to Utah in 1849, and to Provo
in 1852. She was not blest with offspring but was
a faithful and hospitable woman; she was called
to officiate as a counselor in the Relief Society
when first organized here. She was industrious
and indefatigable in all her dnties. She was pro-
verbial for carrying a well filled basket to the
needy and sick.
	She always bore a strong testimony to the divi-
nity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith
and lived and defended all the principle she taught.
She also did much work in the temple for her dead,
and died at the ripe age of eighty eight years much
respected and we her sisters have a worthy exam-
ple in her trust and confidence in her holy religion.
				ELECTA BULLOCK, President.
				M. A. TILL,
				CLARA PAXMAN,
				MATILDA OLSEN,
							Committee.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		HYRUM STAKE.
	Our Relief Society Confererence con-
vened on Saturday, the 17th of Novem-
ber, 1906. Two very interesting sessions
were held. We had a nice program of
lectures, instrumental and vocal selec-
tions, recitations and speeches.
	The reports of the presidents were very
good, showing the branch organizations
to be improving.
	The attendance both of the brethren
and sisters were large.
	One Society in our Stake (where three
members of the board reside) has paid
$839.00 toward the erection of a new
meeting house besides buying a granary
$240, of this has been paid this last sum-
mer. Three or four of the other branches
have done nearly as well and some of
them have a great many sick and poor to
take care of. This is the reason we did
not think it wise to make more expenses
for them than we need to.
	With kind love and best wishes and
may our Heavenly Father add his choicest
blessings.
			NELLIE E. PARKINSON,
							Presiden.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy s x month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50 per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		May, 1907


[Column 1]
THE OEFICERS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Dear Sisters:—I have a few thoughts
which I desire to give to you, my co-
workers, at this time, praying that they
may be helpful and encouraging to you.
	This is a society which, at its beginning,
had but eighteen members, but as an or-
ganization it was so rich in simplicity and
truth, so full of the inspiration of the
Prophet of the Most High, that it has
grown and increased until today it is do-
ing a mighty work in the amelioration of
the distressed, which is the mission for
which the Relief Society was launched.
Because of its mission to bless and re-
lieve, the work has been blessed of the
Lord, and it has found favor among the
Saints, insomuch that 35,000 women have
joined hands, laboring, not for the vain
things of life, not for honor, not for price,
but for the love of doing good.
	Before me I see my co-workers, the
officers of our society, whose countenances
glow with a spirit of strength and loving
kindness.
	I say to you, you are blessed in this
work, for it is ennobling. Each deed of
kindness will increase your power to do
good and will stimulate your desire to
perform the work of a Saint. Day by
day you earn your sure reward in the joy
and satisfaction of your heart for having
assisted one of our Father’s children.
	As officers of the various organizations
I urge you to make, by prayerful and
energetic work, a success of your par-
ticular field. To successfully meet all the
requirements of this great calling, one
must be “in touch” with the community
in which she labors, seeking always to
discover what will help and encourage,
and always stimulate to good deeds the
members of her particular society.
	There is nothing good, which is suitable
for woman’s work, that cannot be proper-
ly brought in the Relief Society. The
study of the best literature, sciences, na-
ture, cooking, in fact, the whole field of

[Column 2]
domestic science, child study, nursing,
home making, house furnishing. Ethics
Civics, Patriotism, Morals, Manners, the
Gospel, the Virtues,—all, all, and kindred
subjects are within scope of the Relief
Society.
	This true and this acted upon, no time
will be wasted, and there will be no
lack of interest and instruction and indi-
vidual advancement for officers and mem-
bers.
	The meetings should begin promptly,
and the business treated with dispatch,
the interest not allowed to drag, and after
all, the good Relief Society meeting is
only a means and not the end of this work.
If the meeting is, as suggested above it
should be,—helpful, elevating, practical
—it will find its way home with the mem-
bers and bear its fruit THERE, promoting
order, cleanliness, the virtues, spirituality,
and uniting the home circle in intelli-
gence, love and harmony.
	Sisters, that is what makes my heart
so rejoice today,—to look into your faces
and know that through your efforts and
those of the faithful teachers of our So-
ciety we may reach every home in Zion,
giving comfort and assistance or encour-
agement toward perfection.
	These few words may give only a sug-
gestion of what constitutes the “Field of
the Relief Society:” but I pray you may
be inspired to discover the greatest needs
of your organization, that you may grow in
usefulness and joy day by day.
	It is my wish that the organizations
should be conducted, as regards financial
matters, along strict business lines, and
that each officer should conduct person-
ally the affairs of her department.
	We are always willing to assist in all
laudable efforts, and while the building of
stake and ward houses is not directly in
our line of work, we consider it an honor
that the Priesthood should ask for our
assistance; and we should work assidu-
ously to be helpful in all matters where
help is needed.
	We should he united in the work of
building and furnishing Relief Society
halls; in building granaries and storing
grain; in assisting the Bishops to care
for the sick, needy and distressed; in
teaching mothers to rear and care for
their children; in cherishing the virtues,
fostering the fatherless, laying out the
dead, and all such duties, all this we
should perform cheerfully and in harmo-
ny with the priesthood.
	Any and all money received by the Re-
lief Society, over what is expended in the
work to which I have alluded, should be
kept as a reserve fund for a time of great
need, for we know not the day nor the
hour when some of our Father’s children
may be stricken by famine or pestilence,
or destroyed by the elements. We should

[Column 3]
stand united and ready to assist in every
emergency.
	In loaning money or wheat you should
be particular to get proper security.
	My dear sisters, in all matters pertain-
ing to the work, I rely on your judgment
and fidelity. I give you my blessing, one
and all, my dear Sisters, and pray that
you may be safe and well, and return to
your homes feeling renewed and strength-
ened in spirit, and finding all well. And
now again, the Lord bless and comfort
you and peace be with you.
	PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
April 8, 1907, Salt Lake City.


EIGHTY-FIVE YEARS YOUNG.
	The eighty-fifth birthday anniversary
of the remarkable President of the Gen-
eral Relief Society was celebrated this
year. May 3d, by her own immediate
family, at the residence of Brother and
Sister Joseph Fisher at East Mill Creek.
It was a happy occasion when she could
see assembled all her living posterity;
many of them being little tots, partici-
pated in the exercises of the day, basking
in the sunshine of her smiles and appro-
bation; over twenty great-grand-children
were among the number.
	The dinner was par-excellence, and the
ride to and from in a stylish automobile
was no doubt exhilarating. To most old-
fashioned people the new-fangled ve-
hicles are sort of alarming, but Sister
Bathsheba accepts all the new inventions
of the age without protesting. It must
have been a gala day for the little folks
and a very happy one for the fathers and
mothers, as well as the grand-mother.
	The Relief Society had to take second
place on the birthday this time, and gave
their party on Monday evening, May 6,
in the popular resort for festive occasions,
the Lion House. Preparations were made
by the committee for two hundred guests
and most of them responded to the invi-
tation.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde was chair-
man and the program was in her hands.
The hall was artistically decorated with
flowers, vines, and flags; elegant rugs here
and there made a beautiful setting for the
guests.
	Sister Bathsheba arrayed in white silk
with elegant lace, looked every inch a
queen, her dignified bearing and gracious-
ness of manner, give her prestige wherever
she appears. Her daughter, Sister Clar-
ence Merrill, who is the very counterpart
of her mother, sat on her right, and next
to her, two nieces to whom she has been
sort of foster mother, Sisters Julina and
Edna Smith. President Joseph F. Smith
sat very near her and it was a fine picture
to look upon. Apostle John Henry Smith
of whom she is as fond as if he was her
own son, and who in return has great love
and reverence for her, sat near on her
left and others of her dear friends. Sister
Bathsheba verifies the saying of the poet
who wrote:
	“Age is opportunity no less
	Than youth itself, though in another dress;
	And as the evening twilight fades away,
	The sky is tilled with stars invisible by day,”


There was excellent music and a favor-
ite hymn sung. Then President John R.
Winder offered prayer. Counselor Hyde
opened with an appropriate compliment-
ary and eloquent speech very fitting to so
grand an occasion. The music was de-
lightful, especially the violin played by
Prof. Clive, his son Master Clifford ac-
companying him on the piano. There
were speeches and poems, one original 
“Old Friends and Comrades” by Emme-
line B. Wells, and songs and hymns, etc.,
but the best of all was the short speech of
President Joseph F. Smith in which, af-
ter telling a great deal of his boyhood ac-
quaintance with his Aunt Bathsheba and
of her remarkable life, he closed by say-
ing he hoped he might be pardoned if he
paraphrased a saying of Shakespeare-on-
man, using the word woman instead:

	Her life was gentle; and the elements
	So mix’d in her, that Nature might stand up,  
	And say to all the world This is a woman!

	President Smith could not have given
a higher tribute than in these lines. 
	Elder John Henry Smith’s speech early
in the evening was a glowing tribute to 
his Aunt Bathsheba and to his father’s
memory, President George A. Smith who
died over thirty years ago.
	Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward sang
some of her very choicest selections and
was in excellent voice.
	President B. W. Smith herself res-
ponded in a few words expressing her ap-
preciation of the love of friends, and of
the Gospel and her desire that we might
prove faithful and true to its teachings,
blessing us all with peace.
	The exercises closed with a benediction
by Apostle George A. Smith.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SEVENTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL CONFER-
				ENCE.
	The seventy-seventh annual confer-
ence of the Church was one of very great
importance marking a mile-stone in
Church history in the line of progress, by
the issuing of an Epistle to the world that
set forth in plain terms the views of the
Latter-day Saints truthfully, and it would
seem that all honest men and women
might receive without prejudice such a
straight-forward statement, in the spirit
of sincerity in which it had been pre-
pared. The conference opened on the
5th of April and closed on the afternoon
of the 7th. Throughout the entire ses-
sion a spirit of brotherly love was strik-
ingly apparent and the large and crowded
congregations sat as if spell-bound. The
spirit of unity and of charity seemed to
pervade every heart, and the insructions
were all of an uplifting tendency.
	The music furnished by the choir
seemed to accord harmoniously with the
spirit of the Conference, and on the first
day when the President announced in clos-
ing his intensely interesting discourse the
presentation of a document, that had been
prepared by the First Presidency and the
Apostles and stated that it would be read
by Elder Orson F. Whitney for the ac-
ceptance or rejection of the members of
the Church that it might go forth as an
authoritative statement—the words
seemed to thrill the assembly and to re-
call to memory some of the momentous
occasions in the history of past events


that have marked indelibly the onward
progress of this people.
	After the reading, President F. M. Ly-
man in a comprehensive statement moved
the adoption of the document as an ex-
pression of the principles and policy of the
Church, and Elder John Henry Smith
seconded the motion in a few well-chosen
words, and President Smith called upon
all who favored the adoption of the ad-
dress to arise to their feet. In response,
nearly every person in the congregation
arose—and before putting the negative
vote, the President stated that the ad-
dress was only for the consideration of
Church members and, if there was any
present who were not in sympathy with
the contents of the paper, they also should
arise. No one responded and the motion
was declared to have been carried unani-
mously.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	There are so many things we wish to
write of and have not the space to devote
to, that we have concluded to mention
them briefly in order to let the sisters
know, that they deserve a place and a
more elaborate notice than can be given
at this time, but they are chronicled in
the hearts of those who participated in
the enjoyment of these notable social af-
fairs, that help the busy seriously-intent
women to have a few hours respite now
and then,
	Susa Young Gates, President of the
Daughters of the Pioneers was hostess at
a dinner given March 15, 1907 in the his-
toric Lion House to the officers of the so-
ciety, and as special guests of honor the
two honorary presidents were invited.
Bathsheba W. Smith and Emmeline B.
Wells. It is needless to say the affair
was in everyway up-to-date, but the most
enjoyable feature was the after-dinner
speech of the hostess, commending the
efficient work of her assistants with such
tact and skill in the use of language, that
it would have puzzled the most brilliant
woman there to have made a fitting res-
ponse.
	A very enjoyable Easter party was giv-
en March 29, in the far-famed Lion House,
Sister Clarissa S. Williams, the president
of the Relief Society of the Salt Lake
Stake, the accomplished hostess; her
mother, Sister Susan E. Smith, seated
near her and her husband, Utah Senator,
W. N. Williams, occupying a seat of hon-
or, a man of liberal views; and as well as
his wife, a great favorite. The party was
given as a compliment to her associate
members of the Board. Among her large
circle of friends, special guests were, Prest.
B. W. Smith and E. B. Wells. The
table decorations were unique, and the la-
dies were curious to know what was con-
tained in the pretty ornamental basket
that stood in the center of the table filled
with daffodils and ferns, and yellow rib-
bons attached with a card indicating the
seat of each guest. However the con-
versation was lively and the courses so
dainty and numerous (served by pretty
little school girls) that there was little
time for guessing; but the surprise came
when the nest was reached and each one
found the ribbon of her card brought out
a “nest-egg” with a picture on it. Uncle
Joseph Young used to say, “every one

[Column 2]
had a nest-egg;” it proved so at this par-
ty and the affair was a brilliant success.
	A birthday party was given April 20,
1907, by the Relief Society officers of the
Salt Lake Stake in honor of their Presi-
dent Clarissa S. Williams, her Counselor
Hattie B. Harker acting as chairman,
the President of the Stake, Elder Nephi
L. Morris, giving her valuable assistance.
Many exquisite flowers were used in dec-
orating, and baskets of roses and carna-
tions ornamented the center table. The
program of speeches, recitations and
musical numbers was very finely ren-
dered, Miss Edna Harker’s humorous
selection was specially well done and
elaborately applauded; many heartfelt
encomiums of praise and commendation
were given Mrs. Williams; an original
poem by Hattie C. Jensen was one of
the pleasing exercises. The remarks by
President Joseph F. Smith were inspiring
and particularly affectionate towards his
cousin Clarissa. Other speakers paid
glowing tributes to the guest of honor;
the music was exceptionally fine; refresh-
ments were dainty and appetizing. At
the close of the party a great surprise was
sprung on Sister Williams by the presen-
tation of a pretty basket of exquisite flow-
ers by the Relief Society Stake officers
and on examining the contents, a dainty
little box was found in the center, which
contained an elegant brooch with dia-
mond setting, a sun-burst surrounded
with pearls.


PEACE MEETINGS.
	The interest of the world in peace and
arbitration and the desire to bring about
the good time so long foretold when men
shall learn war no more, seems to be
greater this year than ever before. The
people are becoming aware that the sen-
timent can be disseminated through pub-
lic gatherings in addition to the press. The
National and International Councils of
Women and other large organizations
have been making great efforts along this
line of work for peace ever since these
associations were organized, through
peace committees in all the affiliated so-
cieties.
	The Relief Society, the largest organi-
zation of Latter-day Saint women, and
the Y. L. M. I. A. have held meetings an-
nually thoroughout these organized asso-
ciations ever since May, 1899, and the in-
fluence must have been realized in the
various communities.
	This year an additional interest has
been awakened, and the Governor called
a meeting in this city, one object of which
was to organize a Peace Society for the
State. This will be a step onward we
trust in educating the masses, and those
of all faiths and creeds, the public gen-
erally.
	The meeting called by Governor John
C. Cutler was held in the large Taber-
nacle in this city, Sunday, May 19, 1907,
at 3:30 p. m. The Governor himself pre-
siding. The Tabernacle choir furnished
music. Dean Brewster offered the invo-
cation, and Governor Cutler made the
opening address, in which he said: “I do
not need to tell you that Utah and its
people stand for peace, and that war is
abhorent to them. And I have called you
together in order that this fact which you


[Column 1]
know so well may be proclaimed through
you to the world. For if there is a place
on earth where the proper occasion will
be welcomed for turning swords into
plow shares and spears into pruning hooks,
that place is Utah.”
	“And now, ladies and gentlemen, in be-
half of the state, I extend to you a hearty
welcome; I ask that you give the peace
movement in general and especially to
what is done here today your cordial
sanction and support. I take this oppor-
tunity of thanking the various local or-
ganizations devoted to the cause of peace
for the effective work they have done in
this direction. To the ladies forming
these organizations the thanks of the state
are due. I am sure I voice the sentiment
of the people of Utah in saying in the
words of the great Sumner, “Let the
bugles sound the truce of God to the
whole world forever.”
	Mrs. Ruth M. Fox made a very strong
and effective appeal stirring the hearts of
the audience by its simplicity and earnest-
ness. She closed with these words: “Let
us teach our children the love of peace
and not of strife.”
	Walter Wallace rendered a solo, “The
Lord is my Light.”
	Rev. Benjamin Young made a very elo-
quent speech and closed by paying the
American Congress a high tribute of
praise in forwarding the peace movement,
and to Thedore Roosevelt whom he felt
had done more than any man in this age
for universal peace.
	Elder John Henry Smith’s discourse
was a powerful one, and appealed to the
hearts of the people in stirring language,
he said in part, “It is the dream of all our
hearts that the day may come when the
children of men may sense their respon-
sibilities to posterity and the race, to be
loving and kind to their fellows, and when
all evidence of hate, of war and of vile
desires shall be banished forever. Then
shall the millennium come,” etc. * *
Justice and mercy shall be the rule.”
	Fred Graham sang a solo from Elijah,
“If With All Your Hearts.”
	Rev. Elmer I. Goshen, in his brief re-
marks likened the peace movement to a
king’s helmet which is in two parts, the
upper and lower, and explained that
peace and justice are the two parts of the
helmet. His reasoning on the subject
was very logical.
	Mrs. Plummer then sang, “The Flag
Without a Stain.”
	Elder J. M. Sjodahl, with some ex-
planatory remarks and suggestions on the
subject of universal peace and the evils of
contention, presented the resolutions to
be voted upon, and urged as a duty that
every good citizen lend active support to
the peace movement:

		PEACE RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolved, That in the opinion of this
assembly it is the duty of the friends and
advocates of peace everywhere to unite
firmly for the purpose of co-operating in
the dissemination of knowledge among
the people generally of the great work
that is being done preparatory, we hope
and pray, to the dawning of the millen-
nial day, in order that interest may be
aroused in the efforts of statesmen and
liberal governments, that need popular
support for the peace measures that are
now before parliaments and congresses.
Be it further

[Column 2]
	Resolved, That, in order to give tangi-
ble expression to these views and senti-
ments, the president of this meeting, His
Excellency, Governor John C. Cutler, be
hereby requested to name a committee
consisting of seven members, the govern-
or to act as chairman ex officio, for the
purpose of considering and formulating a
plan of organization, proposing a consti-
tution for a peace society and naming of-
ficers of the proposed organization; said
committee to report to a subsequent
meeting to be called by the chairman.
Be it finally
	Resolved, that we, the members of this
congregation, hereby humbly express our
heartfelt gratitude to the Ruler of the
destinies of mankind for the spirit of
peace and good will that is being poured
out in marked degree upon all flesh, at
the present time; also our grateful appre-
ciation of the faithful labor for peace and
arbitration that has been done in this
state and elsewhere, especially under the
auspices of the ladies of various organiza-
tions.
	After the resolutions were read Elder
J. M. Sjodahl, in a very graceful and ef-
fective speech, moved the adoption of the
resolutions, and the governor called for
the vote, there was a full response and
the motion carried; after which His Ex-
cellency appointed a committee of seven
persons to take steps towards forming a
permanent peace society in Utah.
	Prof. J. J. McLellan rendered an organ
solo, and Elder Nephi W. Morris pro-
nounced the benediction, and the assem-
bly adjourned sine die. 
	Sunday evening conjoint meetings of the
Relief Society and Y.L.M.I.A. were held
in all the wards throughout the various
stakes and missions of the Church. Re-
ports of these meetings will be sent into
headquarters and a full report prepared
and forwarded to the chairman of the
peace committee in Boston, Mrs. Lucia
Ames Mead.

	THE HAGUE CONFERENCE.
	The Hague conference will be held this
year in a thirteenth century castle, “The
House in the Woods,” it is said will be
entirely too small, for the delegates rep-
resenting 46 countries. The Dutch gov-
ernment decided to fit up the ancient cas-
tle latterly known as “The Hall of
Knights.” It stands in the center of a
paved court, and is reached through half
a dozen picturesque portals over which
are chiseled the arms of the counts of
Holland. The hall in the interior is an
enormous one which occupies the entire
space within the structure in front and a
series of smaller rooms in the rear. The
large hall was the great banqueting room
of the counts and their knights, when they
made merry during the hunting season.
Here is where the sessions of the confer-
ence will be held.
	Since 1702 the main hall has been used
by the queen for the ceremony of making
the address of the throne to the houses
of parliament in joint session. The hall
has a vaulted roof with huge beams and
rafters after the Dutch fashion. The
desks are covered with green baize, and
the rostrum for the presiding officers in
front and at the back desks for the secre-
taries arranged in a semicircle. The whole
seems to be to bring the delegates as
close together as possible, for exchange

[Column 3
of ideas, the general effect is of rigorous
simplicity.
	The quarters for the delegates will be
something of a serious problem, as there
is but one hotel within the city proper
fitted for entertaining distinguished diplo-
mats. This is the Hotel des Indes, and is
splendidly appointed.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GENERAL CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF
			SOCIETY.

	The General Conference of the L. D. S.
Relief Society was held in the Assembly
Hall in this city on Thursday, April 4th.
President Bathsheba W. Smith presiding.
The music was under the direction of Sis-
ter Lizzie Thomas Edward, musical di-
rector, and Sister Edna Corey, organist.
After singing “How Firm a Foundation,
etc.,” prayer was offered by Sister Re-
becca E. Little. Singing, “Where the
Voice of Friendship’s heard.” Followed
by a Greeting and Welcome from Presi-
dent B. W. Smith and response by Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards of Weber Stake; a
beauitful baritone solo, “Joseph The
Prophet,” was exquisitely rendered by
John Robinson, the hymn composed by
himself.
	Remarks on Woman’s Building by
Counselor Annie T. Hyde.
	Reports were given from Blackfoot by
President Lucy A. Steers; Bingham by
President Elvira C. Steele; Fremont by
President Matilda Flamm.
	A duet “Holy Mother,” by Misses Car-
rie Carr and Esther Conwel.
	Reports from Hyrum Stake President
Nellie C. Parkinson; Panguitch Stake
president Hannah A. Crosby.
	A very beautiful violin solo was then
given by Prof. Shelton.
	Oneida Stake was reported by Presi-
dent Louisa B. Benson.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry gave an ad-
dress which dealt with the mother and
the home, very definitely.
	Morning session adjourned after sing-
ing “The Spirit of God,” etc,, and bene-
diction by Sister Rhoda Lyman.

	Afternoon session, President Bathshe-
ba W. Smith presiding. Singing “Zion
Stands with Hills Surrounded,” etc.
	Prayer by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon.
Singing, “O Ye Mountains High,” etc.
President Smith again Greeting and Wel-
coming the very large congregation as-
sembled in which she pronounced a love-
ly blessing upon the sisters engaged in
this charitable and benevolent work.
	Sketches of eminent women were given
as follows: Emma Hale Smith by Julia
P. M. Farnsworth; Eliza R. Snow by An-
nie Wells Cannon, followed by the mag-
nificent rendering of Sister Eliza’s famous
hymn, “O My Father” by Lizzie Thomas
Edward. Sketch of Zina D. H Young
by Elizabeth S. Wilcox, and of Bathshe-
ba W. Smith by Julina L. Smith. These
were followed by a tenor solo from Prof.
Thomas Ashworth.
	General Secretary Emmeline B. Wells
spoke upon the greatness and grandeur of
the Society and its achievements, urging
the young women to take part in the ac-
tive work of this organization.
	Conference adjourned until Monday
morning at 11 o’clock to meet in Barratt


[Column 1]
Hall in a testimony meeting. Singing,
“Guide us, O Thou Great Jehovah.”

	A general Relief Society testimony
meeting was held in Barratt Hall, Mon-
day, April 8, at 11 a. m., President Bath-
sheba W. Smith presiding.
	Opened by singing “Redeemer of Is-
rael.” Prayer by Sister Mary Alice Lam-
bert. Singing, “Come, Let us Anew.”
	The President made some happy re-
marks and stated that she had prepared
some instructions she would have read to
the Sisters; hoped the Lord would bless
us. The secretary, Sister E. B. Wells,
then read the paper. President B. W.
Smith’s Instructions to the Relief Society.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry announced
that Sister Smith desired the sisters to 
make short speeches and as loud as possi-
ble, and that the meeting was now turned
over to the sisters.
	Many strong testimonies were given,
mostly by sisters living long distances
away, calculated to inspire faith and
courage.
	A quartette was sweetly sung by four
of Mrs. Edward’s pupils, “Scatter Seeds
of Kindness.”
	It was requested that all who had per-
sonally known the Prophet Joseph Smith
stand. There were fifteen present who
had been acquainted with him.
	Morning session closed with singing,
“Lord, Dismiss us,” etc. Benediction
by Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
	Officers’ meeting 1:30 p, m. in Barratt
Hall, President B. W. Smith presiding.
Commenced with singing “Come, Come,
Ye Saints.” Prayer by President Jane S.
Richards. Singing, “Do What is Right.”
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams then read
the address of the President of the Relief
Society. Sister E. B. Wells then read
the resolution in regard to the car-load
of flour to be sent to China, and spoke
briefly upon the matter and then offered
a resolution that the sisters tender the
car-load of flour to the Presidency from
their own store; the resolution was sec-
onded by Sister Clarissa S. Williams and
Counselor Annie T. Hyde, and was car-
ried unanimously.
	A young ladies’ chorus sang “The
Mother’s Lullaby.”
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp spoke upon the Re-
lief Society nurse work, giving good ad-
vice urging young women to take the
nurse course as it would better prepare
them for the duties of wife and mother-
hood, and announced the next nurse class
under the auspices of the Relief Society
would begin in September.
	Mrs. F. Marion Whitney Dinwoodey
rendered a beautiful contralto solo.
	Sister Emma Empey then gave a brief
sketch of the nurse work under her charge
for over seven years and how dear it was
to her heart, and said it was about nine
years since the work first started, the first
two years Sister Priscilla Riter had charge
of the nurses, and did very efficient work.
	A solo “Oh Lovely One” was sung by
Miss Dwyer.
	Report of St. George stake was given
by the new president, Emily Cornelia
Brooks; the Bannock stake was repre-
sented by Louisa Corbett; the Juab
stake by Counselor Amy B. Grover;
General Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams
spoke of a few items of business; first
asked all the presidents of stakes or their
representatives to stand, she said we feel

[Column 2]
that the past six months of the Relief So-
ciety has been very profitable, we want
to encourage the nurse work, as to the
Mother’s work the general officers and
board feel that you should make your own
outline, and in doing so choose simple
subjects and not questions that the sisters
cannot handle. A new field has been
opened up in some of the stakes, that is
special missionaries set apart by the stake
presidency to visit the homes in your dis-
tricts; we commend this work to you that
every home may be visited and young
women invited to attend and join the Re-
lief Society. As was read to you, we de-
sire that all your business should be con-
ducted strictly along business lines; let
each woman do the work in her depart-
ment. The Relief Society are going to
publish a history of the stakes and missions
and in the Circular letter, we have not
put all the questions necessary; if there is
anything of special interest in your work
put it in the report you send in. We
commend your good works; God bless
you. Amen.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry then read
the minutes of the first meeting of the
Relief Society from the original record,
and stated that Sister Bathsheba Smith,
as you all know, is the only living member
of the eighteen sisters present at the first
organization and I want her to stand, and
all say, Amen to my wish that she live as
long as life is dear to her, to testify to us
of this organization and of the mission of
the Prophet. Sister Smith rose up and
all the sisters said Amen. 
	Sister Mary E. Bateman moved that
the address by Sister B. W. Smith that
was read this morning by Sister Wells
and this afternoon by Sister Williams be
published in pamphlet form and given to
the different branches of the Relief Socie-
ty; seconded by Sister Julia P. M. Farns-
worth and others, and carried.
	Sister E. B. Wells moved that a com-
mittee be appointed to wait upon the
President and acquaint him of the resolu-
tion passed about the wheat; seconded
by Sister C. S. Williams and others, and
carried. Sisters C. S. Williams, E. B.
Wells and Ida S. Dusenberry were ap-
pointed by the President to notify the
First Presidency of the action of the con-
ference on the matter.
	Benediction by a Hawaiian Sister, Mary
Lapa. Conference adjourned until Octo-
ber, 1907.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON,
					Secretary pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the forty-first Relief Society
conference of Uintah stake, held at
Naples ward, November 24, 1906, Pres.
Sarah M. Colton presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises, Sister
Agnes Bennion welcomed the sisters, but
did not feel like she could report the stake
as she had not been home very much the
last three months.
	Lecture from Vernal ward Relief So-
ciety by Sister Mary B. Henry, entitled
THE HOME. Sister Mary J. Hards report-
ed Glines Relief Society, Sister Hannah
Odekirk Vernal Relief Society, song from

[Column 2]
Naples Relief Soeiety, lecture from Glines
Relief Society, “Prayer in the Home.”
	Brother Harden Bennion, counselor in
the stake presidency, thought the lectures
had been quite appropriate, also spoke of
prayer and home influence.
	Sister Sarah M. Colton was pleased to
meet so many here, as it was a very bleak
day and some of the sisters had many
miles to travel. She had been pleased with
the lectures and the other exercises. Re-
ported the stake in good condition, en-
couraged the sisters in their duties, and
spoke of the new tabernacle which is be-
ing built here.
	After closing oxercises, conference ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m. Usual open-
ing exercises. then Annie K. Bartlett gave
a brief report of the general conference
of the Relief Society in October held in
Salt Lake City, spoke of economy of time;
also of faith, and of mothers going to
Sunday school with their children instead
of sending them alone, urged the different
presidents of the Relief Society in regard
to gathering grain for storage, Sister
Phebe Hislop reported the Maeser Relief
Society.
	Singing, “Praise ye the Lord.”
	Sister Sarah Pope felt to bless the sis-
ters for coming out to meeting such a
cold, bleak day; compared the time of
today with what it was in the early days
of the Church, gave a brief history of her
travels in crossing the plains, spoke of
the good times she had had in visiting
the different branches of the Relief Soci-
ety in the past.
	Sister Lydia Wall reported the Jensen
Relief Society and Sister Adele Huuting
reported Naples Relief Society.
	Patriarch Nelson Merkley spoke of the
love fathers and mothers should have for
their children, make home pleasant and
teach them the principles of the gospel,
and live for eternity not for this life only.
	President Wm. Smart felt to congratu 
late the sisters in coming out in the in-
clement weather. He had been quite
interested in the remarks, especially in
regard to the rise of the Church, by Sister
Pope; thought the counsel given, if we live
up to it, we would be greatly benefitted.
Spoke of the completion of the tabernacle
in the stake, also on punctuality and waste
of time.
	President Sarah M. Colton made a few
closing remarks, thanked all for their at-
tendance.
	Conference adjourned for three months
to be held at Jensen. Singing. Benedic-
by Brother Harden Bennion.
		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Secretary.

		UNION STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of
Union Stake was held at La Grande,
February 14, 1907. President Mary Scho-
field presiding. Singing, “Earth with her
ten thousand flowers.” Prayer, Brother E.
L. Whiting. Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s
sincere desire.” Roll called and minutes
read and approved.
	Reports of different wards were given,
all in excellent condition. Much is being
done in regard to storing wheat, each
ward seemed to be anxious to fill their
share of the granary. All were interested
in Mother’s Work.
	Counselor Emily Bramwell spoke of
the growing good of the Relief work. It


[Column 1]
is an organization for the saving of souls,
and sending sunshine into the world. It
is a band of God’s handmaids so united
as to uplift the burdened and care for the
aged and sick, and in every way strengthen
woman kind.
	President Schofield spoke of the power
the teacher is in the ward, said they are
really guardian angels in a ward. Referred
to sending young ladies to be educated as
nurses, said it was effort that brought all
good things to us. The Relief Society is
considered as a mother to other organiza-
tions, therefore, should be very careful
in the example put forth.
	Brother Southwick said the way to
serye God was by doing our individual
duty.
	Singing, “Oh Jesus the giver.” Bene-
diction, Counselor Mary A. Southwick.
	Afternoon session: Singing, “Now let
us rejoice.” Prayer, Brother J. R. Price.
Singing, “Praise to the man.”
	Counselor Mary A. Southwick urged the
sisters to be energetic in following out
the instruction given in regard to storing
wheat.
	A chorus of young people sang “Oh
Galilee.”
	Financial and statistical report of Stake
was read.
	Missionary Sister Jordan was very
thankful for conditions surrounding the
stake.
	Lecture from Union ward, on Mother’s
Work was given by Sister Lewis, “Asso-
ciation of parents and child.” As a writer
is known by his works so is a person
known by his associates. As a fool is
known by his words so is a person known
by his associates, and the sorrow or
pleasure a parent could engender in a
child’s being was shown.
	Recitation, Kate Rogers.
	Bishop Geo. Stoddard of La Grande
ward spoke, read a part of the discourse
given by President Smith at the April
Conference, bearing on Relief work, ur-
ged the idea of storing wheat.
	Brother A. S. Geddes, said, stand by
each other, don’t look for faults; find good
qualities and enlarge upon them.
	Singing, “We thank thee O God for a
Prophet.” Benediction, Brother Thomas
Deakin.
			KATE ROGERS,
					Secretary.

			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference
held in Eureka ward, October 19th, 1906.
Nebo Stake Relief Society met in quarter-
ly conference at the meeting house. Presi-
dent Eliza J. Dixon presiding. Several
members of the Stake Board were pres-
ent. After the usual opening exercises
reading of minutes included, Sister Za-
briske, President of Eureka ward bade us
welcome, reported her second counselor
had moved away and that she would have
to resign on account of poor health, she
felt very sorry for this as it had been a
labor of love to her.

[Column 2]
	President Dixon was pleased to meet
with the sisters in Eureka, but sorry to
have to part with Sister Zabriske, thought
she should have more help. Spoke of
the care of the sick and the dead as being
a great labor; said the Relief Society
gave the sisters a chance to use every
faculty of their mind. More and more
improvements were being made. Gave
instructions in regard to holding officers’
meetings. We must make our organiza-
tion the best in the world.
	Sister Forcey reported Mammoth ward.
Sister Madsen reported Knightsville ward
all well. Sister Mary Brown said there
was no organization for women in this
Church until our Prophet Joseph Smith
organized the Relief Society. Read a
portion of the minutes of the first organ-
zation. Bore testimony to the truth of
the Gospel. Singing, “Come Let Us
Anew,” benediction by Fannie Simons.
	Conference reassembled at 2 p. m.
Singing and prayer. Sister Steele from
Goshen sang “High on the Mountain
Tops.” Sister Kapple encouraged the
sisters to study the Gospel; said that
revelations were given to enlighten our
minds. Spoke of a fund in Relief Society
to help the missionaries and their fami-
lies; said we must not neglect the poor
as this was our mission. We must set an
example to our children and teach tnem
the Gospel, and ask for the Spirit of God
to be with us.
	Recitation by Sister Poesom, “The Two
Portraits.” Sister Evans said she had felt
the Spirit of God with us today; said we
all had our talents, let us exercise them;
said our faces show the desires of our
hearts, God would know our intentions
whether for good or evil.
	Instrumental selection by Sister
Baughn. Brother Wallace said he had
closed his store to meet with us; had
been pleased with the remarks made to-
day. Sister Wall of Santaquin added
her testimony to what had been said;
spoke of Relief Society in early days.
Said that the blessings pronounced upon
her dying mother’s head by Brother Hy-
rum Smith had been fulfilled upon her
own head.
	Instrumental music by Sister Evans.
Sister Dixon exhorted the sisters in their
duties, to be loyal and true to their re-
ligion, to exert themselves and not shrink
from their duties; prayed for God’s bless-
ings upon us. Singing, “The Spirit of
God.” Prayer by Brother Wallace.
		ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
	Cor. Sec. Nebo Stake R. S.

		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference of the Mari-
copa Stake met in the Relief Society
Hall, Mesa, February 21, 1907. President
Melissa Hunsaker presiding. Opened by
singing “Think gently of the erring one.”
Prayer Brother Mahonri Stuart. Singing
“Let Zion in her bearty rise.” Roll Call.
Showing all the Wards represented. Mi-
nutes of previous conference read. Stake
officers and General Relief Society were

[Column 3]
sustained by vote. President Melissa
Hunsaker made opening remarks, said
she felt to rejoice in the blessings of the
Lord. Knew the Lord blessed the Relief
Society work and its faithful workers.
	Reports from four wards were given,
all were doing as well as possible. There
had been much sickness through the last
three months. Both, teachers and mem-
bers, were desirous of doing their duty
and seemed to have a testimony alive
with in themselves that the Gospel is true
and this Society being organized by the
Prophet Joseph Smith was one of our
Father’s purposes for the uplifting of
woman; and the Savior said where a few
met together in His name He would be
there to bless.
	Our brother speakers, felt to rejoice for
the inspiration that led to this organiza-
tion and that we were all the children of
our Father.
	One sister visiting relatives here from
Idaho felt to unite with the sisters in say-
ing that the Gospel as revealed by the
Prophet Joseph Smith was true, spoke on
prayer and teaching our children to pray.
	President Hunsaker made a few closing
remarks, thanked the brethren and sis-
ters, and hoped we felt to rejoice in the
words spoken. Hymn “Guide us, oh thou
great Jehovah.” Benediction Sarah M.
Pomeroy.
			ANNA E. FULLER,

		AFTON, WYOMING.
	Minutes of the Relief Society meeting
held March 17, 1907, in Afton, Uinta Co.,
Wyoming, Counselor Joanna Cook pre-
siding. Singing, “The Happy Day Has
Rolled On.” Prayer by Elder Clarence
Gardner. Singing, “Ye Children of Our
God,” etc. Sacrament was administered
by Elders Charles C. Leavitt and Steven
P. Gheen, and the exercises were then
continued.
	Remarks by Sister Cook stating why
we had met, it was to commemorate the
sixty-fifth anniversary of the organization
of the Relief Society, and she was pleased
to see so many of her sisters present.
	Stake President Alice J. Call said she
would like more of the young women and
girls to join our association and assist us
in this great work. She then read a
sketch of the first organization of the Re-
lief Society and the labors of the officers
thereof, written by Sister Anna Kenning-
ton.
	Sister Mary Gardner said the Relief So-
ciety was just  as important as any aux-
iliary organization, and was organized by
the Prophet Joseph Smith for a good pur-
pose. There is a great responsibility
resting on us to look after the poor, to
care for the sick, and watch the young so
that none are led astray. We should love
one another and try to serve the Lord.
	Sister Artemissia Call gave a lecture on
“Charity.” Song by Sister Florence Lee.
Recitation by Sister Stella Wollenzien
entitled “Guilty or Not Guilty.”
	Sister Maud Burton said she dearly
loved the Relief Society work; she always
felt strengthened and blest by attending
the meetings. Elder John Nield said if
this was a sample of our Relief meetings
then he wished to attend more of them.
Elder A. R. Moffitt made a few interest-
ing remarks.
	Benediction by Sister Eliza Cazier.
		CHRISTINE EGGLESTON,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R.K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

