Vol. 35			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, JANUARY, 1907. [HOLIDAY NUMBER]			No. 6


CONTENTS.
A Christmas Romance.................. E. B. W	41
Relief Society Report:— Pioneer Stake....	45
In Memoriam.............................................	46
Resolutions of Respect..............................	46
Rebecca Atwood Warren...........................	46
Utah Women’s Press Club.........................	47
Outlines Uintah Relief Society..................	47
The N. W. R. S. Convention......................	48
Anthony House Burned.............................	48
Concerning Women...................................	48
Editorial:— Holiday Time— Utah Women
	Elected in Nov. 1906— A Very Pretty
	Wedding..............................................	44
	Editorial Notes....................................	45
Poetry:— Restoration........... Ellis R. Shipp	41
	The Difference—The Christ of Bethle-
	hem............................. Lydia D. Alder	41


RESTORATION.
	A tiny seed, a mite so small
That human eyes could scarce behold,
Asleep in mother earth did fall
While closely round her arms enfold,
Its vital powers hid away
’Til wakened by creative power.
Then swells, and bursts its cumbrous clay
Expanding to a beauteous flower.
Beloved form in earth entombed
Inert and silent rests for years,
Where many seasons flowers have bloomed
Made sweet by love’s bedewing tears.
Until a holy touch awakes
And fills with life the dormant spark,
Of living fire the soul partakes,
Emerges from its prison dark.
He came a heing most divine!
Though clothed in transient earthly guise
To give His life to save mankind
Then from earth’s thraldom to arise
Sublimest nature ever known
Into this world an infant born,
A mundane mantle round him thrown.
Within the tomb was laid forlorn.
But rising from His cerement clothes
From out His parted sepulchre,
Our Savior to His Father rose,
Redeemer of a mortal sphere.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.


THE DIFFERENCE.
Two women stand at a cradle side,
	And gaze on a p cture fair—
A nestling child, with dark fringed eyes,
Where lurks the deep-toned blue of the skies,
	And shining, sun-touched hair.
One of them sees but a sleeping child
	Clasping a battered doll.
She notes the beauty of form and face.
And the rich effect of the priceless lace
	On the carven cradle—that’s all.
She kisses the babe as she tarries a while;
Then turns away with a careless smile.
The other gazes with misty eyes,
	And the cradle fades away.
Before her stretches the path of life,
With all the peril and toil and strife,
	And the dangers of every day.
She sees the tiny form grown strong,
	And the tender heart grown cold
In the race for pleasure that ends in pain,
The eager struggle ’twixt loss and gain,
	The maddening quest for gold.
And she sobs a prayer, ‘O God that Thou
Wouldst keep him ever as pure as now!”
These women stand in the self-same place,
They are not unlike in form and face;
They see the same child in a wee white cot.
But one is a mother—and one is not,


THE CHRIST OF BETHLEHEM.
O, Bethlehem, thou fair and favored one,
	Close nestling ’neath Judea’s towering hills,
How quaint, how picturesque thy storied scenes—
	Because of thee my heart with rapture thrills.
’Twas here the angels sang sweet heavenly strains,
	And here the shepherds watched their flocks by
		night;
Shone here the star, whose brilliance filled the
		world
	Its dazzling sheen—an awe-inspiring sight.
A low, faint cry—a hush—a smothered moan—
	A babe was born; ’twas signaled by the star;
The sleeping world knew not a prince had come—
	The Prince of Peace, whose advent meaneth
		war.
A manger cradled this distinguished One;
	His parents late had come—their city far—
Perfor[-]e they must accept this lowly place,
	Where lowing of the cattle doth the quiet mar.
No birth of earthly king like this proclaimed, 
	By blazing star and angels’ song divine;
And though he wore no purple robes or grand,
	Immortalized, his name lives through all time.
Had He ne’er come, what would the world have
		been,
	Bereft of rosy hope—of gladness—love?
Communion now between the earth and heaven,
	For one had come e’en from the worlds above.
And heaven seems not far away, e’er more
	’Twill be a trysting place among the stars;
For He, the King, the Prince of love divine,
	Has come to earth through those bright, shining
		bars.
A wealth of love this babe brought to the world,
	Not only to His mother—modest, fair—
But to the lowliest creature ’mong all men.
	It lights th’ abodes of mis’[-]y everywhere.
A race condemned by Righteousness to die,
	To sleep forever in their native dust;
The grave, abode once of the Sinless One,
	Must yield the treasure it but holds in trust.
Christ’s mission: who may learn its heights, its
		depths,
	Or feel the weight of guilt he bore for all,
Or understand the glory, heirship given Him,
	When He redeemed earth’s millions from the
		“Fall?”
Earth’s vict’ry, too, must come; no longer shall
	It be degraded—moved to a lower sphere,
The Christ of Bethlehem shall loose its bands,
	Resplendent ’mong celestial orbs it shall ap-
		pear.
Thou Babe of Bethlehem! to Thee we bring
	Our glad hosannas on this Christmas morn.
Rejoice, O earth, lend thou a list’ning ear,
	The song from sea to sea, “Lo, Christ the Lord
		is born!”
						LYDIA. D. ALDER.


Mother Bickerdyke, the mother, nurse
and confessor of the army boys of the
Civil War, gave thanks for just being use-
ful. When she might have entered Wash-
ington in honor at the grand review of
Sherman’s and Meade’s armies, she pre-
fered to ride with her troops, wearing a
calico dress and a sunbonnet. Then, soon
leaving their ranks to wait upon them
with food and water, she said: “I never
considered myself ornamental or worth
making a show of, but I can be useful,
and that’s all I want.”


A CHRISTMAS ROMANCE.
	The streets of the city were filled with
light and gaiety, bright colors predomi-
nated everywhere, and the shop windows
were full of toys, beautiful pictures and
dolls of every variety; and crowds of peo-
ple upon the street jostled against each
other, hurrying to and fro with their arms
full of packages and bundles. It was a
scene to delight the most fastidious artist
that ever reveled in human nature in its
simplicity and freedom at holiday time.
Children were overflowing with delightful
anticipations and laughter, songs and
music floated on the crisp December air.
	Three little girls were on tiptoe in a bay
window, watching the street scene; every
now and then exclaiming, “How pretty!
mamma, do come and see the trees and
things! Where’s our tree? We always
have one. Santa Claus is sure to come;
tomorrow’s Christmas.”
	The mother, full to bursting with anx-
iety trying to get work ready for the
eager patron she expected, had scarcely
heeded the children’s prattle until now,
and turning her sweet face smiling but
sad, said, “Wait a minute, dearies, mam-
ma has almost finished this picture, its
for Santa Claus to take away.’’
	“O, yes, but that’s not his, its for the
lady that comes so often to see you, she
isn’t Santa Claus.”
	“O, mamma here’s more trees com-
ing.”
	“Never mlnd, little ones, your’s will
come when you’re in bed. I’ll tell you a
story soon, when I’ve finished. Now do
be quiet, I must work.”
	Thus reproved, they continued to gaze
into the street and talk to each other.
	The pale, restless woman went on using
her brush, for the finishing touches of the
picture, and the room grew dim as night
approached and she seemed to see the
shadows of the past more and more vivid-
ly until she was almost blinded by the
mental panorama.
	She spoke half aloud. "I can’t do any
more tonight, not even if the worst
comes.”
	Little Jennie, turned as she heard her
mother sigh, and quickly ran to call the
maid.
	“Mamma is ill, Bettie;” but when Bettie
came the mother was composed again—
the scene had passed.
	“What was it, Mrs. Brandon?” Bettie
asked,
	“Only a fancy, Bettie. I thought I saw
a dream come true that I had long ago,
bring in the children’s supper, I must put
them to bed.”
	The simple repast was soon over, the
children had their pretty story told them
in truly mother style of the beautiful
“babe of Bethlehem,” and the mother
with her face buried in her hands sat
pondering over the situation, how to econ-
mize in spending the few shillings that
remained of her slender income. “I must
give the children something, and Lady
Maynard will not be here tonight, I thought
perhaps she would come early and would


[Column 1]
bring some Christmas trifles for the girls, I
am weary, so weary, but I must not give up,
I must finish the painting now; it is fairly
well done, yet I could improve it very
materially if I had the heart to work; if
only my strength would not fail,” and she
rocked herself to and fro in her agony,
clinching her hands, and again she saw
the shadowy panorama. “I must not sit
thinking,” she murmured, I will call Bet-
tie and tell her to watch for Lady May-
nard, I’ll be back soon.”
	Bettie answered the summons and Mrs.
Brandon threw on a warm wrap and a
scarf over her heavy mass of bright brown
hair, and in a flash she was sailing swiftly
along the street, mingling in the hurrying
throng, a figure so graceful and willowy
that one might readily fancy she was con-
scious of her own superior charms, she
carried herself so queenly, and her whole
appearance was most captivating. She
hesitated before a shop filled with toys,
and sweetmeats, made a few purchases,
and glancing around shyly, the light snow
falling on her giving her indeed the look
of a fairy, she heard some one call her
name. Turning from where the sound
came like a frightened bird she fled.
	“Geraldine! Geraldine!” repeated
again.
	She recognized the voice as of one long
since dead, but it was not he, she knew,
but some one very much alive, yet so like
his it was, she knew not what to do.
Terrified beyond expression she could not
think; almost night in the streets of a
a great city she could scarce move, and
yet she inevitably must. Motioning a
cab she jumped in it, the stranger still
watching, though she knew it not. At
her own door Bettie met her with, “Lady
Maynard is here waiting, furious that the
picture is not finished.”
	Pride came to her relief, and she
choked back the tears that were ready to
flow, she saw the carriage with its gilded
trappings, the driver on the box in livery,
the footman behind. She did not hesi-
tate a moment, but entered the small
apartment like a princess, carrying her
tiny packages; she saluted Lady Maynard
and told her simple story. The lady rose
with an imperious air scarcely deigning to
reply to the courteous apology, ‘‘I beg to
assure your Ladyship of my desire to
keep my promise to complete the work
tonight, but I was overcome with fatigue,
and was obliged to put down the brush.”
	“You left it to go out. The maid could
have made the Christmas purchases, they
were not so particular, I fancy.”
	Mrs. Brandon could not answer, it was
too humiliating. “I have explained, I
will do my best tomorrow. Christmas
cannot be a holiday to me,” and
from sheer exhaustion she sank down
upon the chair nearest the door.
	Lady Maynard was gone, but her maid
inquired in passionate tones, “What mes-
sage can I take to her Ladyship?”
	"I have told you all, there is no more
to say.”
	Bettie opening the street door for the
lady and her maid saw a hansom drawn
up near, but without thinking, so enraged
was she at this insolence of the lady’s
maid that it did not occur to her to men-
tion the matter to her mistress; before
Mrs. Brandon had time to recover her
composure the door bell rang, and she
heard a strange voice in the hallway, and
yet there was something familiar in the

[Column 2]
tone, reminding her of days gone by, of
voices she had listened to, and her heart
beat fast; she had forgotten the episode
in the street. It had been driven out of
her mind. Bettie entered with a card,
“The gentleman waits outside the door,
he is a grand one, it must be some one
you know,”
	Mrs. Brandon’s heart was thumping,
there was a singing in her ears. She
could not read the name for a few minu-
tes. Bettie was alarmed, ‘‘you are sure-
ly going to faint, madame,” and Bettie
caught her or she would have fallen.
The sudden arrival of one mourned as
dead had been too much for this delicate
woman, and just on the verge of serious
collapse, it was some time before she ral-
lied. Bettie ushered the stranger into the
hallway, where he paced to and fro,
impatient of the delay, not knowing the
cause. It was late to be calling and he
was not aware how he would be received.
He had not expected to find so easily the
woman he had come from afar in search
of, and if possible to effect a reconciliation
and make recompense for wasted years.
	Bettie the maid had tact if not knowl-
edge, she knew instinctively that her mis-
tress had a greater sorrow than the death
of her husband, she was not versed in
book knowledge, but in love affairs in her
own sphere she was up to date.
	She could interpret the stranger’s visit
after her own fashion, and was not at all
inclined to bid him begone.
	Mrs. Brandon recovered in part her
composure, but her nerves were so un
strung that she was scarcely able to recall
what had occurred in the street or how
she had been followed. The faithful Bet-
tie waited in suspense, not knowing what
would be best to do, but finally resolved
to urge her mistress to speak to the stran-
ger; she reluctantly consented to Bettie’s
urgent solicitations, saying, “Bettie, say
to the gentleman, if his business is very
important, I will speak to him for a few
minutes, though I am overcome with fa-
tigue and need rest and quiet.”
	All excitement, the maid hurried into
the hall, to do her mistress’ bidding. “If
you please, my lady says you may come
in if your business is very important.”
	Mr. Brandon brooked no delay, but
followed, almost rushing through the
doorway without making any reply to the
maid, Mrs. Brandon could not rise; the
figure, the voice, the manner, recalled to
her vividly one she had known in the
past, but who had died long ago, and she
could not utter a word, she was so terri-
fied. He came forward and grasped her
hand. She shrieked with fright; the
maid, too, was almost paralyzed with fear
lest her mistress should swoon again; but
the awakening of latent forces, the rousing
of memories hidden away in some corner
of her brain, came over her and prevented
faintness, though every pulse thrilled with
excitement. She gave way to tears and
sobs that were most pathetic; poor Bettie
tried all her restoratives, and a realization
of her position became apparent to Mrs.
Brandon.
	The stranger seized his opportunity.
Calling her by name softly, he said, “I
have returned from the East Indies, alive
and well—perhaps you thought I was
dead. Why do I find you in these poor
lodgings? And where is my brother?”
	Mrs. Brandon, her voice sounding far

[Column 3]
away, exclaimed, “Do you not know the
truth?”
	“How could I know? I have been five
years in foreign lands. After leaving Aus-
tralia I wended my way to India, and
only tonight I reached London, and be-
gan inquiry for my brother, when I saw
you most unexpectedly, and called to you,
but you fled like a wild deer. I followed,
to find you in these miserable apartments,
obliged to work, and was a most unwilling
listener to Lady Maynard’s offensive re-
marks, and the insolent language of her
companion. I am most unhappy because
of your distress. Tell me, is my brother
dead?”
	Getting no reply, save an almost inau-
ble “Yes,” he looked compassionately at
the fragile form of the woman before
him,whom he had left in her bridal dress
—the girl with whom he had been madly
in love, and whose picture he had carried
near his heart during his prolonged ab-
sence in a foreign country, and now he
gazed upon her clad in the deepest
mourning, and yet he recalled that on
the street she wore no widow’s weeds—
he was wild with suspense.
	“Tell me, Geraldine,” he implored,
“how long has my brother been dead?
Can you not believe that I have returned
and will care for you—that there must be
no more drudgery, no more insults from
society women of fashion, who flaunt
their ill manners in the homes of honest
people?”
	Geraldine still sobbed half unconscious
answering not a word, The stranger
turned to the maid and asked, “There are
children—how many?”
	Bettie was only too glad to break the
awkwardness of the situation—the miser-
able suspense, “Three little girls; the
youngest a baby, and they are expecting
Santa Claus, and my mistress has prom-
sed them a tree.”
	Without waiting, Mr. Brandon hurried
from the house. It was growing late, the
street singers were merrily caroling about
to catch the pennies being thrown to
them, and the streets were still crowded
with pedestrians; he made his way to the
nearest shops and returned loaded with
bundles; the small tree he had sent on be-
fore was taken by Bettie into the living
room and was already in place, when
he arrived with the gifts and ornaments,
Bettie was clever at decorating, for she
had been nursery maid before this great
sorrow had fallen upon the family, and
she longed to tell the stranger how his
brother had been brought home by his
comrades at dead of night, and all the
terrible scenes which followed. She knew,
however, her mistress would not approve
of her betraying her wretchedness, or tell-
ing to anyone how lonely and penniless
she had been left to struggle with fate for
these little ones.
	The first words were, “How js your
mistress—is she resting?” Bettie was
glad to talk of her. ‘‘She is still moan-
ing and sobbing. I gave her some tea—
she sipped a little. She cannot credit
your not knowing of your brother’s death.
She once told a strange lady who came to
ask after the children, that she had heard
of her husband’s only brother’s death in
Australia.”
	“Who was the lady?” he inquired.
	“An actress, I think,” said Bettie “all
powder and perfume. She offered my
mistress money, and left her card. Mrs.


[Column 1]
Brandon burned it, and gave me orders
never to admit her again if she should
call. She would not let her touch the
children. I took them away the moment
she came, but once in the park we saw
her in a carriage, and she threw kisses to
them. I believe she would steal Jennie
away if she could.”
	“Tell me their names, please, Bettie.”
	“Jennie, Rosie and Lily the baby.”
	Mr. Brandon wrote the names upon
a card and pinned one to each of the
beautiful dolls he had selected, and hav-
ing arranged all the elegant toys and or-
naments, sat down, pondering what he
could do to make her willing to listen to
him and accept his care and protection
for herself and the children dependent
now upon her earnings as an artist—an
accomplishment she had acquired for
pleasure; but her only resource when left
with little ones, after the sale of her jew-
elry and expensive olothing. She knew
if she failed she could go to some distant
relatives in the north of England, but she
dreaded rehearsing her affairs to those
who looked upon her marriage as a great
triumph, and it had only proved a mis-
erable failure from first to last; and had
ended in a tragic death, the story of
which she shuddered to think, and shrank
from all those who knew aught of the cir-
cumstances.
	Mrs. Brandon had taken lodgings where
she felt she would never be discovered
by any former acquaintances, and with
her faithful Bettie and an occasional
char-woman she had borne up almost
cheerfully for the sake of the children.
She had the true mother-heart that could
endure pain and sacrifice uncomplaingly
because of her unbounded maternal love.
	Horace Brandon seemed intuitively to
comprehend the struggles she had been
passing through. He had heard Lady
Maynard’s complaint and the reply of a
promise to finish the work tomorrow. It
was growing late, and would soon be mid-
night; the chimes on all the churches
would soon begin. If he could only rouse
her—was there no way, he wondered, to
make her believe in him. While he pon-
dered, a gentle knock came to the outer
door. Bettie, alert at every sound, ran,
he could hear soft, timid voices in the
hall; opening the door gently, he saw two
beautiful sisters of charity, in the garb of
their order. He had been familiar with
these ministering angels more or less all
his life, and quickly the thought came,
here is my opportunity. He spoke rever-
ently to them, and in a few words gave
them the pith of the delicate position in
which he found himself. The sisters
grasped the situation at once, and in a
few moments had taken the citadel, not
by storm, but by diplomacy.
	They were sisters of mercy, and knew
how to deal with all sorts of ailments.
They saw a heautiful young woman pros-
trated with trouble and overcome with
what seemed to her occult mystery—un-
able to account for the appearance of
one whose death had been strongly veri-
fied to his near relatives. They roused
her from apathy and gave her a soothing
cordial to drink, which caused reaction of
the heart almost instantaneously, and she
listened to the explanations made by
these tender-souled women, whose lives
were devoted to deeds of kindness. Thus
fortified, Mrs. Brandon consented to see
and converse with her husband’s brother,

[Column 2]
in the presence of the sisters, who re-
mained long beyond the usual visiting
time, realizing her extreme ideas of pro-
priety, even though he was a relative and
an old acquaintance. The coin Mr. Bran-
don slipped into the hands of these visit-
ors was adequate for the invaluable ser-
vice rendered to him. His mind was at
rest, he could sleep, even though a thou-
sand bells were pealing in his ears.
	Mrs. Brandon was not easily quieted,
many conflicting emotions wrought her
soul, gratitude for present needs for the
little ones, the charm of Santa Claus and
the Christmas tree would bring joy to
Jennie and Rosie, and baby Lily, though
so young, would feel the effect of the
Christmas joyousness.
	Of herself Geraldine knew not what to
think, she saw that Horace though grown
older, had in his heart kept the tender re-
membrance of what had once been his
fondest dream, his hope in life, and she,
though true to her marriage vows in every
sacred obligation, knew now, what she
had never acknowledged even to herself,
that Horace Brandon was the one man in
all the world that she could both love
and trust.
	The Sisters of Mercy returning late to
the convent asked audience with Father
Mathew, and when ushered into his pres-
ence, showed him the golden coin and
told him of the wonderful adventure; and
Father Mathew, listening with rapt at-
tention said, “My old student, Horace
Brandon. I must send for him here to-
morrow. Bless my Stars, Mother Mary
be praised! he has returned safely from
his travels, he went away in sorrow be-
cause his brother had wed the girl whom
he had hoped to win, for he was not
aware of her engagement to his older
brother Roger, a dashing, young, high-spir-
ted fellow, over-fond of sports and gay soci-
ety. I knew of the marriage and lost
sight of them afterwards; I learned of
the tragedy that caused his death, but
was not informed of the details; and you
say his widow is in destitute circumstan-
ces, he must have squandered two or
three fortunes, and she earning hardly a
subsistence, with such talents, the tale
is very pitiable, and most romantic, if I
may use such a term.”
	The Sisters of Mercy with downcast
eyes nodded assent to his outspoken
praise of Mrs. Brandon’s independence
and in the solitude of their own little
rooms commented upon Father Mathew’s
seeming approval of the romantic epi-
sode.
	“Strange how things come about when
two people love intensely,” said the
younger of the two Sisters; “was it the
strong love they had nurtured unseen
that over-ruled circumstances,and brought
them together after years of waitiug?”
	“Thee must put away all such idle fan-
cies and count thy beads and ask forgive-
ness for thy waywardness,” said the old-
er sister reprovingly.
	“Yes, sister, thee knows best, never-
theless Father Mathew had queer
thoughts when we told the story to him,
I know, I saw it in his countenance, and
he will see them both tomorrow, rest as-
sured.”
	“True love finds a way e’en through
locks and bars they say.”
	Christmas morn dawned joyfully in the
great city of London, the streets thronged
with children and carriages of all kinds

[Column 3]
rolled over the roads, and street singers
were heard everywhere. In the shabby
dilapidated lodgings of Mrs. Brandon
there was great commotion, Bettie had
risen early and the little ones in night-
clothes surrounded the tree with wonder
and surprise, calling “Mamma, mamma,
I knew Santa Claus would come!” and
they patted their hands and screamed
with delight and gaiety, dolls were soon
in their arms, and their mamma must 
tell them over and over how Santa Claus
clambered down the chimney. “My
dears, I know no more than you do how
he comes in or how he knows what is
wanted, but last night two of the Sisters
of Mercy came here late, perhaps they
told him how he could come in and what
to bring, for I told them I had three
sweet little girls with golden curls, and I
fancy they almost knew what good little
girls you were to go to bed so early.”
	Mrs. Brandon could scarcely talk so
affected was she with all Bettie had to
tell her of Horace Brandon’s devotion
and patience, waiting as he did to speak
to her and decorating the tree so daintily.
She praised Bettie for her fidelity, and
trustworthiness, while Bettie railed in
her most severe tones about Lady May-
nard and her stuck up maid, “who was
no better than other common people,”
she declared vehemently. “All’s well
that ends well,” Bettie quoted, “and this
Christmas will end with a big dinner and
a long journey.”
	“O, Bettie, how dare you say such
absurd things,” said her mistress.
	“I dreamed it.” the girl replied frankly,
“and I hope her Ladyship’s picture gets
sent home to her for a Christmas box.”
Mrs. Brandon protested against any
more such rash sayings, for the children’s
sake, and added, “Bettie, you must not
tell dreams and vagaries that come into
your head when you are oyerworked and
tired.”
	Bettie kept her own counsel, but left
the room muttering, “I know what’s go-
ing to happen, and you’ll see.”
	Horace Brandon sought out the Sisters
of Mercy and learned that his old precep-
tor, Father Mathew, was at the convent
in old Friars Street and in the early morn-
ing he repaired thither with good intent
to ask advice. In his long colloquoy with
the good, kind Father he unbosomed his
inmost theughts and feelings concerning
his brother’s wife. “I was convinced
when I first beheld her that she was to
be the ruling star of my destiny, I knew
nothing of her antecedents, nor of her
circumstances or position in society, ex-
cept that she had a charm about her that
fascinated me irrisistibly, and that she
filled my heart and soul to overflowing
with joy inexpressible. This is the rare
power and virtue of true purity and ex-
cellence in woman. Is it not so, Father
Mathew?” Horace Brandon looked ap-
pealingly to his advisor for an answer to
his question, but when there was no re-
sponse he plied him with another more
difficult still, as children often will.
Have you never been in love yourself,
Father Mathew? Don’t you know what
it is?”
	Father Mathew buried his head in his
hands and in a quivering voice said,
“Horace, my boy, no one has ever put
such a question to me, but I’ll be honest
with you now you have spoken; I loyed a
	(Continued on page 47.)


[Column 1]
	A CHRISTMAS ROMANCE.
	(Continued from page 43.)
girl too, beautiful and true, and like your
Geraldine, she was betrothed to another,
a dear friend, a college chum of mine,
they were wed, and she died soon after;
and shall I tell you that is why I entered
the Holy Order in the Church, and
strange indeed it is that you should come
to me, the girl I loved and would have
wed was Geraldine Wesley’s mother.”
	Before the young man had left the con-
vent, he had told the good Father,
who now seemed nearer to him than be-
fore, the offer he intended to make to
Geraldine, his brother’s widow. “I shall
urge her to marry me straightway, and
take her away to the old home in Lincoln-
shire, if it is not too much encumbered
with mortgages. I have some idea of the
place and its surroundings and what will
be needed. and I have a strong attach-
ment to the forests and parks, as I re-
member them in my boyhood, the house
in London if I could purchase it would
bring up too many sad memories for Ger-
aldine, it was there the first years of her
married life were passed. I go now to
meet my fate, confident I shall win, and
if I am fortunate in my hasty wooing, we
will drive here for you, dear Father
Mathew, to solemnize the marriage.
Au Revoir.” And so they parted after
clasping each other’s hands at the convent
gate.
	Horace Brandon hastened to the Banks
to make hurried preparations for depart-
ure, and after taking a plain dinner
wended his way to the abode of his
sister-in-law. Bettie, as though anticipat-
ing his coming, beamed with smiles
when she admitted him, and he was soon
in the presence of the one beloved and
her little flock of children, to whom he
was “the rich uncle from far away,” of
whom they had been told. They climbed
about him joyously, telling him of the
beautiful presents that Santa Claus had
brought, not forgetting the stories their
mamma had told them of the “Babe of
Bethlehem.”
	“My little girls, would you like me to
tell your mamma a beautiful fairy tale?”
said their uncle.
	“Yes, O yes!” the little ones shouted.
“Do, do! Mamma tells us fairy stories
wheu she is not too tired, pretty ones,
too.”
	“Now you run away and tell Bettie to

[Column 2]
give your mamma some tea, and while
she is taking it I’ll tell her the best
Christmas story that ever was told.”
	The tea was forthcoming and Horace
prefaced his love story by saying “it was
as old as time itself, and always new in
every individual case, he had always
loved the beautiful in nature, art, poetry,
music and women; he had only seen one
woman above all others that had been
enshrined in his heart since he met her,
seven years before; he had begged her
picture from a friend of her’s and taken
it with him when he left home, and car-
ried it next his heart in all his wander-
ings, his visions of her when alone at
night time, or when in the far-off, lonely
places, wherever he might be, he could
always see the face of this fairy creature,
it was more to him than all the world;
now, little girls, would you like to see the
picture?”
	All at once cried “Yes, yes, show us
the picture!”
	He drew from his inside pocket a velvet
case enclosing a small medalion of Ger-
aldine Wesley, and Jennie cried, “My
mamma, my pretty mamma? Where did
you get it?”
	Embarrassed beyond speech, Mrs. Bran-
don rose to leave the room, but with a
courage born of his heroic love, deter-
mined to stake all “at one fell stroke,”
he took her in his arms, and there, in the
presence of the three little witnesses car-
essed her as he would a child. There
was no mistaking his meaning, as he
plead for an immediate marriage, and as-
sured her every preparation had been
made. She did not make any pretence
of mistaking his avowal of love, but felt it
was too hasty, yet there were none to criti-
cise, and his plea to get away from Lon-
don, and breathe the country air, not
only for himself but for the little ones,
overcame all her scruples.
	The picture you were painting must be
dispatched to Lady Maynard with a mes-
sage; and the household goods packed off
to the nearest dealer in second hand arti-
cles.”
	Geraldine had no valuables to speak of,
so a few short hours sufficed to complete
the arrangements; the landlady was paid
a month’s rent in advance, and by five
o’clock all was done, the carriage was at
the door and a trap for Bettie and the
man-servant, Horace had brought over
from India, with the few packages, boxes,
etc., trunks were strapped to the four-
wheeler and Geraldine, without one iota
of regret, left the miserable lodgings in
Putney Row. They drove to the convent
and when admitted Father Mathew man-
ifested not the least surprise. In the
simple little chapel of the convent the
ceremony was performed with a few
priests for witnesses, and the two Sisters
of Mercy who had called on Mrs. Bran-
don on that memorable Christmas Eve
the day before.
	All this time Bettie was in a state of
great exaltation, for her dream had come
true and proud she was to know that her
mistress had consented to leave dirty
London. These were the days of slow
travel and poor accomodations at wayside
inns and hostelries, comparatively speak-
ing, and the journey that could now be
taken in a day or so occupied weeks. To
the newly married, little annoyances are
but trifles, and the travelers reached the
old Manor in Lincolnshire where Horace

[Column 3]
and his brother were born, and his father
and grandfather and other members of
the family before him, and found less in-
convenience of mortgages than he had
anticipated. An uncle of his was in
possession, not a Brandon, but married
to one. He was eager to get rid of the
obligations and see the old place repaired
and restored to one of the family name.
Pride of inheritance is a strong character-
stic in these old landowners, and their
descendants on this side of the water are
equally tenacious in this respect.
	To make a long story short, Horace in
the long winter evenings related to his
bride the story of Father Mathew’s at-
tachment to her mother, and she explained
something of her own early life when her
father was the Vicar of St. Budolph in
Lincolnshire, and how happy she had
been in that more simple life before her
aunt had brought her out in society and
she had been betrothed and afterwards
the wife of his elder brother. “We shall
be happy here, I know, it is not so far
from my old home, and I love the woods
and fields of Lincolnshire.	E. B.W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p.m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
s[-]con

Salt Lake City, Utah, 		-		JANUARY, 1907


[Column 1]
		HOLIDAY TIME.
	The Holiday season this year was in
many respects a very joyous one to the
people in these mountain vales; affairs in
general were never at any time more
prosperous; an almost universal feeling of
good will prevailed, and a sort of fellow-
ship, generous and kindly, and the liberali-
ty of presents, gifts and entertainments,
was unprecedented. Perhaps there was
in some ways an extravagance, but on the
whole presumably moderation, if not
economy.
	The little folks at any rate have been
made very happy with Santa Claus, who
scarce misses a home in these days, where
there are children, and indeed he seldom
passes by the older grown. There seems
no end, to the variety he carries about
and distributes in his wanderings up and
down the country, in an almost marvelous
way.
	Not only did Santa Claus go about with
his trees, and dolls, and all sorts of toys,
but all the fathers and mothers, aunts
uncles and cousins were alert and active
in the like pursuits, so that every home
seemed more like a play house, then a
modern sober dwelling place; feasting
music and dancing for all who could,
or would participate, visiting and making
merry.
	Now we have come again to the soberer
days and settled down to serious work,
yet very soon St. Valentine will come
frolicing along and turning the heads of
the young folks to thoughts of love and
mating, scattering his messages here and
there; and next will be Washington’s
birthday and more flying of flags and
bunting and decorating and feasting and
so forth.
	Meantime there is much work to be
done, and it is barely possible to have too
many holidays; and there are some people
who must do a lot of hard work even in
the holiday season.
	All the feasts and gatherings of families
and neighborhoods require work, and as
Br. Heber C. Kimball used to say, “holi-
days are hollow days” and to those who
cannot enter into sports and pastimes
and recreations freely, they are hollow
too; but that is the serious side of the
subject, and there are after all so many
terrible things in this age of the fulfill-
ment of prophecy, that it may be well to
have a counteracting influence acting as
a sort of balance, just to equalize and
carry us safely through the trying scenes

[Column 2]
of the events transpiring, and about to
take place.
	At any rate we of this age can say we
do not do all the silly things they used to
do in “ye olden time,” when the misletoe
was hung up in all the houses at Christ-
mas and the young men had the privilege
of kissing the girls under it, plucking each
time a berry from the bush and not until
the berries were all gone, did the privilege
cease.
	The Christmas feasting in which all
share is one of the real blessings of that
special season; an old rhyme gives the
true spirit in brief.

	“At Christmas be merry and thankful withal,
	And feast thy poor neighbors, the great with
		the small.”

	But indeed there were many ridiculous
customs at Christmas in the olden days.
One of the ancient customs that of serv-
ing up the boar’s head on Christmas day
is still observed in the hall of Queen’s
College, Oxford. A carol is sung by the
company when it is brought in,

	Bedeck’d with bays and rosemary;
	And I pray you my masters be merry.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	“The boar’s head as I understand
	Is the rarest dish in all this land
	Which is thus bedeck’d with a gay garland.”

	Then follows a pie magnificiently de-
corated with peacock’s feathers in imita-
tion of the tail of that bird covering a
large portion of the table; the pie made
of pheasants, though authoritatively it
should be made of peacock’s. This used
to be in great demand for stately enter-
tainments. Sometimes the head appeared
above the crust and the beak richly gilt;
at the other end displaying the long tail
feathers. Such pies were served at solemn
banquets of chivalry when knights-errant
pledged themselves to undertake any
perilous enterprise, whence came the an-
cient oath, “by cock and pie.”
	The peacock in these ancient days
was an important dish for the Christmas
feast and the extravagance with which this
and other dishes were prepared for the
gorgeous revels of the olden times are
scarcely creditable.
	This is only one item of the menu served
in those days of old English chivalry; but
the Puritans of New England went to the
other extreme and would not keep Christ-
mas at all. In a way they substituted
Thanksgiving although no presents were
made either then or now.


UTAH WOMEN ELECTED NOV., 1906.
	Miss Mary Ann Gunn, Parowan, coun-
ty recorder, Iron County. Miss Sadie
Foss, Farmington, county recorder, Davis
County. Miss Rachel C. Farley, Morgan,
county superintendent of public schools,
Morgan County. Miss Sarah Merrill,
Logan, county recorder, Cache County,
Rebecca Eames held the office previous
term. Miss Christina Madsen, Willard
City, county recorder, to succeed herself,
Boxelder County. Mrs. Lydia Cowley,
Richfield, county recorder, Sevier Coun-
ty. Mrs. Ida M. Wells, Moab, superin-
tendent of schools, Grand County. Mrs.
Lavinia Murdock, Heber City, county
treasurer, Wasatch County. Mrs. Jennie
Ashby, Holden, county recorder, Millard
County. Mrs. Minerva Johnson, county
recorder, Uintah County. Dem. (Have


had one woman superintendent of schools
elected by Democrats who gave excellent
satisfaction).
	Weber county has a woman auditor,
Florence O. Stanford, Ogden, elected at
the recent city election; also official court
reporter, Second Judicial District Court.
Miss Eva C. Erb, appointed by the dis-
trict judge; also the office of deputy coun-
ty clerk is held by Miss Jeannette Bing-
ham and Miss Edith Bird, and the office
of deputy county recorders, Miss Annie B.
Brown and Miss Eveline B. West. Depu-
ty city recorder, Miss Lois Wilcox. Miss
Annie Carr holds the office of assistant to
the city engineer. Miss Eleanor Hender-
shot and Miss Agnes B. Maguire are clerks
in the county assessor’s office of Weber
County.
	There are many girls employed in the
offices of both city and county during the
time when assessment rolls are made.
	Mrs. Emily Bertelson, superintendent
of schools, Piute County, and Miss Susa
J. Searle, Junction, county recorder of
Piute County., Marysvale.
	Mrs. S. J. Bryerson, Monticello, clerk
and recorder, San Juan County, has been
re-elected after having held office six
years; she was first elected in 1900 to the
office of county treasurer, and this will be
her third term as county clerk and re-
corder. Mrs. Lucinda Redd, county
treasurer, and Miss Lenna Butt, county
superintendent of schools, San Juan
County. Miss Dorothy Wilson. Ran-
dolph, county recorder of Rich County.
Mrs. Elizabeth Wilson, Beaver City,
county recorder, Beaver County.


A VERY PRETTY WEDDING.
	We are sorry to be so late in chroni-
cling the marriage of our dear young
friend, Miss Priscilla Smith of this city,
to Elder George S. Taylor, of Provo.
The ceremony took place in the Salt Lake
Temple at high noon on October 25th,
1906, Apostle John Henry Smith, the
bride’s brother, officiating. In the even-
ing a reception was given at the resi-
dence of the bride’s sister. the home of
State Senator and Mrs. Wm. N. Wil-
liams. The parlor and dining room were
artistically decorated in floral designs
with a profusion of green vines and col-
ored ribbons, making a very pretty effect,
and the bride modestly attired in a sim-
ple white gown, carried an elegant bou-
quet of bride’s roses and looked very
sweet and charming. The whole affair
was in excellent taste without any osten-
tatious display or stiffness, which often
spoils, in a sense, the true spirit of such
happy occasions. There was a houseful
of guests, and some of them in evening
costume very handsomely attired. The
mother of the bride, Mrs. Susan W. Smith
and the Senior Mother in the family re-
lation, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, were
among the most distinguished guests
present.
	There was music and feasting and
wedding cake galore, distributed by sweet
little girls. Among the younger people
we must enter in our list the Sunshine
and Shakespeare Clubs, girls and boys
(most of them married) who were appar-
ently as happy as if it was their own
wedding party. There was a variety of
very useful and beautiful wedding pres-


ents, but we were much more interested
in the bride and groom than in the pres-
ents, therefore cannot name them nor
yet the donors.
	Miss Priscilla Smith’s is the first mar-
riage from the missionary workers of the
General Relief Society, and members of
the Board all join in congratulations,
wishing all the joy and happiness possible
and praying for the welfare and prosper-
ity of both Brother and Sister George S.
Taylor.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTE.
	On account of our having so many articles
that seemed imperative, and having this time
the Christmas Story which takes so much of
the space, therefore we have been obliged to
leave over Sister M. A. Winter’s article to the
“Sisters of the Relief Society,” and the con-
tinuation of the “Trip to England, R. S. re-
port of Box Elder Stake and “Sketch of
Lucretia Mott.” We trust the sisters will ex-
cuse the delay in issuing the paper which was
positively unavoidable for several reasons,
that we cannot very well explain in public
print.

	The assembling of the Legislators of Utah
this year is of considerable significance to the
women of this state, and as there are bills and
measures pending of vital interest to the wel-
fare of women citizens, they should study some
of these questions and if possible exert
an influence with members on the Com-
mittees that have these important matters
in hand. It is greatly Io be regrett d that in
a state where women have equal privileges
with men, there was no woman nominated for
the present Legislature, nor has there been so
far as we are aware, any courtesy extended to
the ladies of the city. 
	“All Aboard for Vermont” was the un-
ique heading of an invitation to attend a
gathering in the Lion House on January
1, 1907. Snow had fallen heavily but the
guests came and the festivities began on
time. The pairing of guests by means of
cards cut in a peculiar shape to fit into
each other was the curious method by
which the partner was found, and the
process of hunting was very amusing, at
last however all were paired off and were
summoned to the banqueting hall up
stairs. where tables were arranged and
when the guests were seated; the blessing
was asked by President F. M. Lyman.
To give the elaborate menu would be next
to impossible, but there was chicken pie,
pumpkin and mince pie, and many dain-
ties, as well as fruits, nuts, and candies.
In the parlor of the dear old Lion House
after the feast, there were games and
conversation and then the guests were
called up stairs again where there was a
Xmas tree and presents on it for all the
Vermont party; and Sister Susa Y. Gates
made a bright little speech as each one’s
name was called, and there were remarks
by seyeral of the distinguished party who
had been the guests of President Jos. F.
Smith on that memorable trip to Vermont.
The committee to whom the thanks of
the guests are due for this delightful en-

[Column 2]
tertainment were Susa Young Gates, Ida
B. Smith, Ina C. Smith, Edith A. Smith,
Alice A. Richards. It was certainly one
of the most enjoyable gatherings we have
ever attended.
	The Daughters of the Pioneers have
been doing such extraordinary things in
the way of unique entertainments, that
one cannot keep up with all their achieve-
ments especially of late during the holi-
days. The Pioneer Reunion to celebrate
laying of the new rag carpet on the
the floor of the relic room was made
quite a festive occasion, after five min-
utes speeches by Sisters B. W. Smith,
E. B. Wells, L. W. Smith and Alice K.
Smith, on old customs and what the
pioneer mothers had to do in earlier days
and spoke of the Daughters and Grand-
daughters. Elder O. F. Whitney made a
very interesting speech on historical
items and instances, and the First Presi-
dency having come in were urged to
speak each one in turn giving a few facts
of unique history, President J. R.
Winder’s remark’s being rather pathetic,
his life so unlike that of most of the fore-
most men in the Church standing
as it were alone, and yet firm as the tow-
ering mountains about our beautiful
vales, his kindred having none of them
embraced the faith for which he has
stood as as a valiant example. President
A. H. Lund spoke briefly, and in a most
entertaining way of his native land and
early life, and President Joseph F. Smith
gave us in his graphic style some of his
early boyhood experiences that never fail
to elicit the admiration of all who listen.
Afterwards the supper of doughnuts,
pumpkin pie, brown bread and butter,
salt rising bread too, and composition
tea were served by the Daughters and
all enjoyed these plain, simple, old-time
delicacies. A genial spirit of fraternity
pervaded the party, one and all and the
wish was expressed that others entitled
might come and enjoy the freedom and
listen to the reminiscences of early days
and learn how the fathers and mothers
endured the struggles encountered in set-
tling these barren wastes.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		PIONEER STARE.
	The Pioneer Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held Saturday, Deeember 8,
1906, President Annie Wells Cannon pre-
siding. After the preliminary exercises,
some of the wards were called on for
brief reports, which were given that our
visiting sisters. E. B. Wells, General Sec-
retary, and Counselor Ida Smoot Dusen-
berry, of the General Society, might know
what we were doing.
	Sister Wells was the first speaker. Sis-
ter Cannon then presented Sister Dusen-
berry to the congregation, who gave us a
most interesting address on “Child Cul-
ture.” Mothers were exhorted to lead
lives of truthfulness, as every act has
more or less influence on the child. The
speaker touchingly pictured the child life
at home, and the purity and simplicity of
her mother. The necessity of correcting
the early tendency of children to acts of
dishonesty was imperative, and the effects
in after life were plainly demonstrated.
We are dishonest if we idle our time

[Column 2]
away, and a simple little kindergarten
story told how the child was impressed to
take care of the minutes. Eternal right
should stand out in our efforts to train
and correct our children. Let the ration-
al punishment come to them—they re-
quire it. Teach them and show what there
is to be grateful for, and to give thanks to
our Father in heaven. A beautiful little
poem was an appropriate ending to the
address.
	The time having expired, we adjourned
until 2 o’clock by singing and benediction.
Luncheon was served during the noon
hour in the Relief Society hall in the stake
building.
	Afternoon session commenced at 2
o’clock with the usual opening exercises
of singing and prayer.
	Sister Cannon greeted the sisters and
reported a number of matters of busi-
ness that were to be attended to. She
had in mind for some time the need of
a Relief Society library, and wished to
found a Stake Relief Society library to-
day. and presented several volumes, most-
ly lives and histories of great women who
had done philanthropic and charitable or-
ganized work. She realized these books
would be useful in the outline of the year.
Three more officers were needed in the
stake work, and the names of Lily Foster
Sperry recording secretary, and Sister
Eva Robinson organist, and Lilian Lam-
bert Woodbury librarian, were presented
and sustained. Sisters Rosina Lambert,
Sarah A. Davey and Jeanette Littley were
sustained as stake missionaries.
	Sister Cannon presented the outline for
the coming year to the congregation and
instructed the sisters to prepare the first
lecture for their first meeting in January,
1907. “The noted women of our day
is the subject; great interest was mani-
fested by the officers, and a highly in-
structive and most enjoyable year is
promised through this line of work. Great
praise is due President Cannon for the
able manner in which the outline is por-
trayed—it met with the hearty approval
of the General Board when presented to
them.
	Before hearing from our visitors, a solo
was most beautifully rendered by Sister
Mabel Poulton Kirk accompanied by Sis-
ter Eva Richardson.
	Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon expressed
her pleasure at meeting with us and bore
a faithful testimony to the truthfulness of
this work.
	Elder Junius F. Wells said he came at
the request of his sister, President Annie
Wells Cannon, and while he couldn’t re-
call the time when he had addressed a
meeting of the sisters, he was always in-
terested in their work, and desired to
sustain and uphold our president in her
position, for he knew she was trying to
do her duty in this line. In going about
the world instances presented themselves
that strengthened his testimony. In 1886
he was priviliged while on a mission, to
meet the first Relief Society President—
Sister Emma Smith, wife of the Prophet
Joseph. During this interview the con-
versation drifted to early times, and many
incidents took on added interest when
related by her. She was in meagre cir-
cumstances, and the man who was then
her husband was very inferior and caused
the speaker in his mind to compare him
with the husband of early days. It plainly
illustrated what could come into a life


when the Spirit of the Lord had gone.
Allusion was made to the lives of the
children of the Prophet, and where the
mother did not entirely approve of what
they had done, she did not endorse the
re-organite movement. Elder Wells
urged her to consider coming to Utah,
where, he told her, many would be ready
to welcome her. His earnestness seemed
to impress her, but at the mention of
President Brigham Young’s name, all her
old-time animosity asserted itself, and she
positively declined to consider the mat-
ter. “The great work the Relief Society
is doing,” said Brother Wells, “has sus-
tained me many times, and very often I
have spoken of this organization with
pride. You are a great power, greater
perhaps than you know and when I look
upon the sisters who have grown old in
this work, I always admire them. May
the blessings of the Lord be and abide
with you is my prayer. Amen.”
	Pres. Sylvester Q.Cannon expressed the
pleasure he enjoyed whenever he met
with the sisters in Relief Society confer-
ences. It is the desire of the stake presi-
dency that the young sisters join this or-
ganization, and he believed the carrying
out of our outlines that had been pre-
sented this afternoon would create an in-
terest in this work, whereby many would
be induced to join us. Words of encour-
agement were given us,and a supplication
to our Father in heaven for His blessing
to ever be with us was earnestly sought.
	Pres. McLachlan hoped the Spirit of
the Lord would be with him in the few
moments he might address us. The sub-
ject of suffrage and of the franchise that
was given to us was discussed at some
length. To those who had come here
from foreign lands who desired to make
this their home, should not fail to be nat-
uralized. Would suggest that the sisters
when visiting upon their blocks urge this
upon those who had failed to take out
their papers. The time will come when
we will need to be citizens and American
voters. This is a privilege, and we should
use it. It is desirous that our schools
should be under good management, and
if our girls fit themselves as teachers, then
they can get an appointment. If the
Latter-day Saints live their religion they
will know in and of themselves what to
do, and there will be no need to be told.
We must be humble and live obediently
to the commands the Lord has given us,
and He will bless us everlastingly. Amen.
	Sister Cannon heartily endorsed all
that had been said, and announced that
conference would adjourn until June,1907.
The cougregation sang, benediction by
Counselor Lucy S. Acomb.
			CLAIRE L. CLAWSON,
							Cor. Sec.
	After the meeting the sisters were set
apart for their respective offices:
	Sister Rosina C. Lambert, missionary,
by Pres. Wm. McLachlan; Sister Sarah
A. Davey, missionary, Pres. Sylvester Q.
Cannon; Sister Lillian L. Woodbury,
stake Relief Society, librarian, Pres. Wm.
McLachlan.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Fanny Crosby, the blind hymn-writer,
has just brought out her autobiographic
memories of eighty years. Her address
is 756 State street, Bridgeport, Conn.


IN MEMORIAM.
	We the sisters of the Emerson Relief Society of
the Granite Stake of Zion have been bereft of a
beloved and ever faithful sister and colaborer.
	Dear Faithful Teacher Mary Ann Coulam de-
parted this life Nov. 1906.
	In commeration of her noble example, good
works, pure and humble life undaunted energies
put forth to bless and comfort the poor, sick and
afflicted we pray that our Heavenly Father will
bless and comfort, with His Holy Spirit, Dear
Mary’s brothers, sisters and friends and help them
and us to emulate her worthy example.
	Through our heart-felt love for our dear sister
and respect for her relatives we resolve to pre[-]ent
a copy of this Memoriam to the family of the de-
ceased, to the Exponent and record on our books.
	Her exemplary life was a beacon light to all
who knew her.
	In behalf of her sisters of Emerson Ward.
					ARMEDA S. YOUNG,
								President.
					BARBARA M JONES,
					CECIY C. BARTON,
								Counselors.
					PRUDENCE BROWN,
								Secretary.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
			to the memory of
	SISTER FRANCES MCKAY SMITH,
Unanimously adopted at a meeting of the Relief
Society of the Third Ward, Liberty Stake, Salt
	Lake City, held December 6th, 1906.

	WHEREAS it has pleased our Heavenly Father
to summon our dearly beloved sister from this
sphere to a more exalted one; and as her labors in
the Relief Society as Teacher, Counselor and Pre-
sident have been such as to win the love and re-
spect of all the members of the same—
	THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that we, her sisters
of the Third Ward Re ief Society hereby express
our appreciation of her example, her labors and
her faithfulness to every trust reposed in her dur-
ing the many years of her connec[-]ion with the So-
ciety; and that we recognize in her death the de-
parture from our midst of an able, efficient and
devoted Saint, and a faithful friend, whose me-
mory will ever be cherished by us, and whose
many virtues we hope to imitate; also that we con-
dole and deeply sympathize with the bereaved
husband and children and grandchildren in the
loss of her loving ministrations as wife and mother.
	We further resolve to present the bereaved fa-
mily with these resolutions; also that they may be
made a part of the Relief Society record, and that
a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publi-
cation in that paper.
	Rest in peace, thy work is done.
	Thou hast satisfied thy friends on earth,
	Beloved si[--]er of this earthly sphere—
	Equal to thy task on all occasions,
	Rest, thy work is done.
						MARY E. IRVINE,
						MARY E. HODGSON,
						SARAH H. GIBSON.
								Commitee.


[Column 1]
	REBECCA ATWOOD WAREHAM.
	Biographical sketch of Rebecca Atwood Ware-
ham, who departed this life on Nov. 25. 1906, at
the home of her daughter in Manti, Utah. De-
ceased was born in Mansfield, Tolland County,
Connecticut, Oct 23. 1825 She came of good old
Puritan stock and possessed all the sterling quali-
ties of the typical New England woman. Intel-
ligence, thrift, industry, and rare executive abili-
ty, being prominent traits. Mrs. Wareham was
naturally spiritual minded and possessed strong
religious convictions, and when the Elders bearing
the glad message of a restored Gospel, came to
her father’s house in the Spring of 1840, she, al-
though but a child in her fifteenth year was ready
and willing to receive it. Especially so after the
miraculous healing of her elder sister who had
been afflicted with spinal disease for three years
and had been pronounced incurable by a council
of the best physicians. On the day previous to
the visit of the Elders, who told the afflicted girl,
and her family that the gifts and blessings of the
former day Gospel had been restored and that the
signs would follow those who believed, which pro-
mise was virtually verified in her case, as immedi-
ately after receiving the administration of the

[Column 2]
Elders she arose and walked out into the garden,
and the following Sabbath walked one and one
half miles to attend meeting.
	Naturally after such a wonderful manifestation
of God’s Providence the whole family received
the Gospel and began to prepare for their depar-
ture for Nauvoo. But as soon as it became known
that they had espoused the new and unpopular
faith, persecution became rife, and life-long friends,
and neighbors brought all manner of false accusa-
tions against the father of the subject of this
sketch, who was known to be a man of faultless
integrity, and strict honesty. They tried in every
way possible to defeat his efforts to dispose of his
home and other effects to obtain means for the
journey; and were so far successful in their efforts
that he only obtained a fraction of their value, the
proceeds barely sufficing for the expenses of the
journey which was accomplished in the fall of
1840; Rebecca having preceded the family to Nau-
voo several months previous. On their arrival her
parents found her dangerously ill with chills and
fever combined with black canker. Her extreme
youth (being only fourteen years of age) her lone-
liness and homesickness caused by the separation,
and, generally unhealthy conditions prevailing in
Nauvoo, together with a lack of nourishing food
all combined to bring about her illness which was
rendering her condition very critical, she being
unable to take any nourishment whatever. The
parents however having mighty faith in the Power
which had restored their first-born at once sought
the administration of the Elders in behalf of their
suffering child, and as before their prayers were
answered, and she was instantly healed and re-
ceived a testimony of the truth of the Gospel which
never left her.
	The record of her life in Nauvoo with all its
trials and privations is a matter of history differ-
ing only in minor details from the experience of
the Saints in general. After two years residence
in their new home the elder sister, who had been
so miraculously healed succumbed to an attack of
fever, superinduced by privation and over-exertion
and passed away at the age of 21 years still retain-
ing her unfaltering faith in the restored Gospel.
	In 1843 the subject of this sketch was married
in the order of Celestial marriage to Joseph W.
Cooledge who was an intimate friend of the Pro-
phet Joseph.
	In 1846 in company with her husband and his
family she left Nauvoo and after a trying journey
located in Winter Quarters where in the winter of
1848 her first child a daughter was born In
the Spring of the same year she returned to Iowa,
where she lived about five years in the vicinity of
Council Bluffs where in the fall of 1850 her son
was born.
	It was a matter of great sorrow to her, that her,
husband, absorbed in business cares, manifest-
ed no disposition to gather with the Saints. The
intervening years between 1851 and 1864 were
spent with her father’s family in Western Iowa.
	After the death of her father, her mother and
two sons, accompanied by her daughter and her
children emigrated to Utah in the Summer of
1864, locating in Manti where she has since resided.
Her mother died 26 years ago and both brothers
within the last five years. Mrs. Wareham being
the last of her father’s family. At the time of her
death she was 81 years 1 month and 2 days old.
	In February 1868 she was married to James
Wareham who was a man of mighty faith and un-
faltering zeal in the ministry of the Gospel.
	On May 11, 1868, the Relief Society was reor-
ganized in Manti, and Mrs. Wareham was chosen
to act as secretary which position she held till
1871 —Jan. 25, 1875, she was chosen President of
the Relief Society of Manti which office she re-
tained till Feb. 2, 1883, when Manti was divided
in two wards she being reappointed as president
of the North Ward.
	When the Manti Temple was opened in the
Spring of 1888 she was called as a worker and
labored in that capacity continously with the ex-
ception of about four months in the winter and
spring of 1890 when she was disabled with a brok-
en limb. She was a Temple worker at the time of
her death although during the last three years of
her life the infirmities of age prevented her from
taking an active part. In 1899 she resigned her
office as president of the Relief Society but was
retained as Honorary President. She was also
President of the Sanpete County Silk Asociation
and was an enthusiastic advocate of Sericulture,
and was thorougly familiar with every phase of
that industry.
	Mrs. Wareham was a woman of rare executive
ability and exceptional housewifely skill which
enabled her to perform her public duties in a most
exemplary manner and also attend to her household
duties in a way that left nothing to be desired.
	Mrs. Wareham s home during her husband’s
life and also when a widow, was hospitable after


the most generous fashion, and nearly all the
greatest men and women of the L. D. S. Church
have been entertained in her home, where the
Spirit of God always seemed to abide.
	She also had the courage of her convictions, and
no adverse influence which could be brought to
bear would cause her to deviate from what she
considered her duty. She was an exemplary wife 
and mother, a consistent Latter-day Saint, and
had an abiding faith in the Gospel, and in the
Divine mission of the Prophet Joseph with whom
she was intimately acquainted, and for whom she
entertained the greatest love, respect and venera-
tion.
	She is survived by her daughter Mrs. Alvira
L. Cox in whose home the closing years of her life
were spent, and Mr. O. H. Cooledge of La-
Grande Oregon. She also leaves nine grandchil-
dren and five great-grandchildren.
	Funeral services were held in the Manti Taber-
nacle on Tuesday, Nov 27. The speakers all
paid glowing tributes to her blameless useful life
and sterling qualities of head and heart. She was
laid to rest in the beautiful cemetery beside her 
husband who passed away some years ago.
	Blessed are they who die in the Lord,—Com.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club held
its annual meeting October 30, fifteen
years since its commencement, at the
home of Mrs. Emma Jensen.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, honorary president,
in the chair, by courtesy of the members.
	Opening prayer by Dr. Ellis Shipp.
	Mrs. Zina Y. Card was unanimously ac-
cepted as a member of the club.
	The following officers were elected for
the ensuing year: President, Mrs. Minnie
J. Snow; first vice president, Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp; second vice president, Mrs. Maria
Francis; secretary, Mrs. Florence S. Critch-
low; treasurer, Mrs. Emma Jensen.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, in behalf of the club,
presented the retiring president, Mrs.
Emma Jensen, with a picture, represent-
ing “Study,” with her usual grace and elo-
quence.
	Mrs. E. Jensen responded with expres-
sions of love and gratitude to all the
members. Delicious refreshments were
served, and altogether a very pleasant
evening had been arranged by the hospit-
able hostess, including a number of guests,
friends and neighbors.
			MARIA FRANCIS,
				Secretary pro tem.


OUTLINE UINTAH RELIEF SOCIETY.

LECTURE 1—VENERATION FOR SACRED
		THINGS.
	(a) Proper conduct in houses of wor-
ship. (b) Respect for the sabbath,
(c) Veneration for sacred ordinances.

LECTURE 2—MOTHERS TO BE COMPAN-
		IONS.
	(a) Mothers should share the joys, sor-
rows and amusements of their children,
(b) Strive to do honor and justice to the
nature of the child.

LECTURE 3—FAITH.
	(a) What is faith? (b) On whom does
our faith rest? (c) Show that it is a prin-
ciple of action. (d) Show that it is a
principle of power. (e) Example of faith.


LECTURE 4—FAITH.
	(a) Means of acquiring. (b) Means
of increasing. (c) Means of retaining,
(d) Example of faith.

LECTURE 5—INDUSTRY.
	(a) Necessary to success, (b) How to
teach children to form habits of industry.
(c) Benefits to be derived from it.
(d) Mention some instance where a seem-
ingly impossible obstacle has been over-
come by industry.

LECTURE 6—CHARITY.
	(a) Charity suffereth long and is kind.
(b) Charity rejoices not in another’s down-
fall nor feels pain at another’s prosperity.
(c) Why should we exercise charity.

LECTURE 7—PROPERLY CONSTITUTED AU-
		THORITY.
	(a) The Church to which we belong
being the work of Christ; every mother
should show by her acts that she con-
siders it her duty to sustain all properly
constituted authority. (b) Why? (c) How?
(d) Benefits to be derived.

LECTURE 8—ERRORS TO BE AVOIDED.
	(a) Using your influence against the
authority of the Church, Stake or Ward,
whom you have by uplifted hand agreed
to sustain. (b) Unkind criticism. Im-
puting evil to actions not understood.

LECTURE 9—COURTESY,
	(a) Courtesy is uplifting as it leads each
to render proper respect to another, (b)
Wives should be courteous to their hus-
bands and children, (c) Children should
be taught to be courteous, (d) Advant-
ages to be derived.

LECTURE 10—PURITY.
	(a) The pure in heart shall see God.
(b) Pure thoughts induce pure actions.
(c) How to gain pure thoughts,

LECTURE 11—HONESTY.
	(a) If thou shalt find that which thy
neighbor has lost, thou shalt make diligent
search till thou shalt deliver it to him
again. Doc. and Cov. When children
pick up articles of value do we encourage
them to try to find the lawful owner?

LECTURE 12 — PRACTICE WHAT YOU
		PREACH.
	(a) Good intentions are worthy to be
sustained by honest persistent efforts to
carry them to efficient execution.
			ANNIE K. BARTLETT,
			SARAH A COLTON,
			RHODAS GOODRICH,
							Commitee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


Mrs. Ida H. Harper is in New York
this winter, doing research work for one
of the large magazines.


[Column 1]
THE N. W. R. S. CONVENTION.
	The convention convened Nov, 18, 1906,
and held two sessions, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.
m., at Flamm’s Hall, Rexburg, Idaho.
	On the stand—Of the presidency of the
stake, Presidents Thomas E. Bassett, Al-
bert Heath, President Matilda Flamm,
Counselors Sarah A. Barnes and Tamar
Ricks, Dr. R. B. Penrose, of the General
Board of the Relief Society, Pres. Jane
Osborne, of the Y. L. M. I. A., and Pres,
Winters, of the stake Primaries, and a
number of presidents of the Relief Society,
also Pres. Ezra Christensen of the Ricks
Academy.
	At the morning session, Pres. Flamm
gave an address of welcome in a few
choice words of encouragement, and giv-
ing a short report of the Relief Society
work for the last year. All the wards had
been visited twice, except one, a very dis-
tant one,which had been visited but once.
They found nearly all in a most flourish-
ing condition, and the workers diligent
and energetic.
	Pres. Barrett spoke in a most encour-
aging manner, commending the work of
the society and their diligence, and
blessed them in all their efforts to do good.
	Excellent papers were read by Coun-
selors Sarah A. Barnes and Tamar Ricks.
	Dr. Romania B. Penrose spoke a few
words in appreciation of the excellent
work the society was doing.
	Afternoon session. At 2 p.m., though
the weather was intensely cold, and some
of the sisters had walked two miles before
daylight to catch a chance fo ride to Rex-
burg a large assembly convened,  The
afternoon services were dispensed with to
give opportunity to all to attend the con-
vention.
	After the opening exercises, Pres. Al-
bert Heath spoke some time in a most
praiseworthy manner of the work done
in the Relief Society, and reported to
their great diligence and energy in visit-
ing the branches. Said they had done
better than the brethren in this line.
	Papers of special interest were read,
notably the one by Mrs. Stevens, who was
selected as second counselor, Mrs. Ricks
resigning.
	Brother Christensen, president of Ricks
Academy, spoke many words of commen-
dation and encouragement of the work
done by the sisters In their Relef Society
labors.
	The Presidency of the Stake felt so
well pleased with the work of the Society
that they set aside the 18th of November
as a permanent date for the convention
to be held annually. Beautiul music was
rendered by the academy choir, and two
solos of fine voices were rendered during
the convention. The benediction was
given by Brother Henry Flamm. R. B. P.

		BANNOCK STAKE.
	The conference of the Relief Society
of Bannock Stake was held at Thatcher,
Idaho, November 3, 1906, Stake President
Eliza C. Hale presiding, most of the wards

[Column 2]
had a representative present, all spoke of
their desire to keep up with the other as-
sociations.
	Stake President Eliza C. Hale spoke
of the necessity of training our children
and teaching our daughters to choose
suitable companions in life, also of duties
of teachers, thought the Society would be
more successful if the teachers would do
their duty.
	Counselor Julia H. Pond. “We can
all get the spirit of our work if we will
seek the Lord and attend to our meetings,
and encourage others, visit the sick,
minister to the poor, encourage the sisters
to attend conferences, we have joy in
doing our duty”, spoke of the mothers
work.
	Counselor Louesia Corbitt spoke of
officers in all associations doing their duty.
Said we should trust in the Lord in rear-
ing our children and teach them to be
obedient to those that are placed over
them.
	The Stake presidency were present and
gave very timely advice to the sisters, en-
couraged them to keep the spirit of their
work, and God would bless them in their
desires to do good.
	We hope to continue in the work of
the Lord, and look for success in our
labors as long as we are faithful.
		CATHARINE SORENSEN,
				Secretary.


ANTHONY HOUSE BURNED.
	The early home of Susan B. Anthony
in Adams, Mass., was destroyed by fire
on Dec. 7, with a loss of about $12,000.
Part of the house was built by Miss An-
thony’s grandfather, Humphrey Anthony,
about 100 years ago, and part by his
father in-law, Joshua Tapham, 50 years
earlier. The structure was two and one-
half stories in height and contained 18
rooms. It had recently been refitted and
partly remodeled inside.
	It was owned by Mrs. Hannah Boyle
of Lake Geneva, N. Y., and Albert
Dickinson of Chicago, who bought it some
time ago on account of its historic value.
It was occupied by Charles A. Daniels
and family. The fire was caused by the
overturning of an oil-stove. The loss of
this historic building will be a cause of
regret to the friends of equal rights, all
over the country.			Ex.


CONCERNING WOMEN.
	A REVOLUTIONARY MOTHER.—Mrs. Fran-
ces Farrell, president of the Stoughton 
(Mass.) Equal Suffrage League, writes:
“I never hear women’s inability to fight
discussed, as it was yesterday, that I do
not think of an ancestress of mine, Mary
Drake by name, who belonged in Sharon,
not far from the home of Deborah Samp-
son. She defended her son’s property
when he was in the Revolutionary army
by driving from his barn with a pitchfork
a squad of British soldiers who had come
to forage. The commanding officer en-
quired her name at the next house, say-
ing, ‘If I had a regiment of such women,
I would storm hell with them!’ ”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

