MOTHER'S VALENTINE. 81

"On Valentine Day I was very much agitated, as you can imagine. At four o'clock I put on my plum-colored plush dress (it had a bustle very much like Viola's new one) because it was Jess's favorite of all my dresses. Then I went out on the front porch to see the train from St. George go by. On the front platform of the last coach stood Jess. As I waved to him he smiled and raised his hat with a bow that made my heart go pit-a-pat. I was very glad that I had not promised to marry father.

"Just as I was thinking this the train whirled by and there on the rear platform stood father waving his hat and grinning, yes, actually grinning. He looked so cock-sure of having everything his own way, that I was quite furious about his being there.

"About seven that night a beautiful white satin valentine painted with blue forget-me-nots came. I was afraid to admire it too much for fear it came from father and I felt that I was quite ready to tell that gentleman that he need not bother to come to see me any more because I was going to say 'yes' to Jess. At that moment the door bell rang and Elsie, yes, your Aunt Elsie let in Jess.

"He was very pale, but I thought it made him look the handsomer. I was feeling rather pale myself as we went into the parlor  "

"Did they do that in those days, too, mother," put in Bea.

Mother merely smiled. "We were both very much agitated although we tried not to show it and talked about the weather in St. George, the spring crop, Sallie Brown's latest beau. Finally Jess said, 'Well, what is the answer?'

"As I looked at Jess, so tall and straight, with such glowing brown eyes, such a charming smile, I felt that I really loved him. I just started to say, 'I'll marry you,' when Elsie tapped on the door and a minute after father walked in carrying a bouquet of lilies-of-the-valley.

"'Hello, am I intruding? I thought you would not be here so early, Jess, and that I'd have time to deliver my valentine in person.'

"Father smiled and put out his hand toward Jess. Jess looked at me and then at father. He went deathly white and then fiery red. Finally he blurted out, 'Well, of all the damned nerve! You've dogged my trail ever since I reached town and now I begin to think you were on the train for the same purpose. I'm through with the whole thing!'

"In his excitement, he brushed past us nearly knocking me over, caught up his coat and hat and marched out of the house.

"Father grinned and handed me the lilies-of-the-valley.

"'Do I win?'"


"Then what happened, mother? You always stop at the most exciting place," complained Mignon.

"Well then"

The door bell rang viciously. Father started up with a nervous jump as the girls ran to the door and came back with a small box.

"Why, it's for you, mother! The snow has blotted the name so I can hardly read it."

"About time  thought they would never get here," muttered father under his breath. He ducked his head further down behind his paper.

Mother opened the box and pushed away the waxed paper. Dainty sprays of lilies-of-the-valley pushed their heads up saucily.

"To My Valentine," mother read slowly from the card.

She looked up rather bashfully at father, just in time to catch him peering anxiously over his newspaper.

Viola looked significantly at the girls and started for the door.

"They're beautiful, dear," began mother softly. "Aren't you sorry you didn't take Jess?"

Father came over to mother's chair. "I heard you say he was handsomer than me."

"You old silly! I almost believe you are getting bashful in your old age!"

Father smiled with relief. "Sometimes, dear, I worry for fear I haven't quite come up to the mark  that I haven't been as successful as I told you I would be and that you have had to work too hard  much harder than if you had married Jess  "

"Father! How can you suggest such an idea? You are the only"

Whereupon father took courage and resumed the bold ways of his youth as he whispered to his sweetheart once again "the sweetest story ever told."

JOHN ST. JOHN.

Nephi Anderson has written another of his thoroughly interesting and spiritually sound stories. He has chosen Nauvoo as the setting for this faith-promoting and pure little love story. The characters stand out quite clearly while the action is much quicker and more vivid than anything the author has yet done. The reader makes the generation jump between the last two chapters without blinking an eye, but one might be glad of a bit of a ladder up or down with a glimpse or two of events between the ladder-steps. However, this book is worthy of first place in our Mormon fiction literature and we heartily commend it to all our readers.