Go to the Mountains
ARE you, during these summer months, going to the mountains occasionally to get their tidings, to let the peace to be found there flow into your soul? If not, you are missing a rich opportunity to get refreshed, invigorated and better fitted for the cares of life that await solution. You would do well to heed John Muir's exhortation:
"Climb the mountains and get their good tidings, Nature's peace will flow into you As sunshine into trees; The winds will blow their freshness into you And the storms their energy While cares will drop off like autumn leaves."
Superintendent George N. Child Called
IN the death of George N. Child, Superintendent of Salt Lake City Schools, Utah loses one of her most valued sons. He had engaged in educational work all his mature life. In 1920 he left the position of State Superintendent of Schools of Utah to take up the duties of City Superintendent, and served ably and to the satisfaction of the School Board and the people from that time until his passing. He had a genius for making practical application of modern ideas on mass education with the preservation of individual development. This gained for him national recognition and he served two years as president of the Horace Mann League. He was recognized as a leader in the National Education Association and played an important part in the Superintendents' Division of the national body. Sincere, frank, dependable, just, fair-minded, he won and held the confidence of those with whom he mingled. Progressive and aggressive, he made many changes in the schools that show his splendid leadership. Genial, with a keen sense of humor, he delighted his friends and associates. Our readers will deeply sympathize with his devoted wife, Counselor Julia A. Child, and the children. She will have blessed memories for she and her husband were most congenial and happy. They understood each other and were considerate, tender and loving. May Time, the great healer, bring comfort and peace to the family of this good man.