A Trip to Bermuda By Alice D. Moyle
BEING in New York, needing a vacation, and reading the alluring advertisements of a trip to Bermuda at such reduced rates was too much to withstand, and in company with Mrs. R. W. Young, who shared my enthusiasm, we, with scarcely an adieu to our family, were on our way.
We secured passage on the new and splendid liner—"Monarch of Bermuda"—a most luxurious boat, boasting of two swimming pools, a bath room for every state room; sun parlors and glassed-in nooks and corners everywhere, the last word they say, in passenger boats.
After a sail of forty-six hours we arrived at Bermuda, a series of tropical coral islands about six hundred miles from New York, and about the same distance East of South Carolina. There are about a hundred islands all told, only about sixteen are inhabited, the rest are just barren coral reefs.
It is the oldest self-governing colony in the British Empire and still holds to many of its ancient traditions and customs. There are no motor cars, no billboards and no factories. There is a parliament which as a law making body is second in age only to the parliament of England. Only about one-half of the population of thirty thousand is white, descendants of early English settlers. The colored population speak with a perfect English accent, quite in contrast to our southern colored people.
During the three hundred years of its colonization, these islands have changed but little, and one soon feels the let down of its quiet shores.
Standing at the water's edge as we entered the picturesque inlet of Hamilton Harbor, is the city of Hamilton, the one and only fairly large city of Bermuda. This city is most quaint and one of its principal streets runs along the shore. A horse drawn Victoria is the principal mode of travel. One rides through the narrow white streets, with their interesting shops, their parks, and gardens of beautiful flowers in which the flora of England, and the poinsettia, and palms of the tropics blend so beautifully and everywhere in sight is the wonderful ocean ever changing blue-green, turquoise and indigo. The air is soft and balmy; the rolling green hills in the background, dotted with the pale coral stone houses with their white roofs, which is so typical of Bermuda, and the winding roads, glisten in the sunlight.
There are magical caves within a short ride that burrow far under the hill, whose crystal shiny stalagmites and stalactites form almost unbelievably beautiful caverns with the ocean water, clear as crystal, sometimes twenty-five feet deep, ebbing and flowing in and out of this fairyland, with the tide.
Elba Beach, one of the most beautiful beaches in Bermuda is unsurpassed for its coloring. The turquoise blue water, and the fine pink coral sand makes one feel it is too much of a picture to be real.
The town of St. George at the other end of the island has a wonderful harbor, and is a very quaint old town. It is not very well kept up. There is a large hotel there,
A TRIP TO BERMUDA
however, and wonderful golfing and I can think of nowhere, where one might get away from the hustle and bustle of New York better than in the sleepy old town of St. George.
Bermuda offers wonderful days of leisure and enjoyment. Lazily driving along roads lined with oleanders and roses, or reclining in easy chairs, on the porches of the fine hotels, enjoying the soft ocean breeze, or if exercise is needed, or recreation, one may try the bicycle, which seems to be the favorite sport. Everybody cycles in Bermuda up and down those splendid roads. One may also indulge in most any recreational hobby he desires.
Bermuda seems to flourish mostly on tourist trade though some early vegetables and flowers are shipped and lily bulbs exported. The Bermuda onion which we hear so much about is raised there, but not very extensively. There are no fresh water springs. What fresh water isn't shipped in, is obtained from the rainfall.
The five days we were allotted for our visit slipped by all too soon and we very reluctantly took our departure. Mark Twain, speaking of
471
the trip to Bermuda says, "One has to go through hell to reach heaven." We realized to some degree evidently what Mark Twain experienced, and we certainly learned what those startling words mean—"a storm at sea." After we had left Bermuda a few hours we encountered a storm. For five or six hours, we were literally thrown around. Huge waves washed over the ship, water leaked through the ceiling of the salon. The dining room and kitchen were bedlams, and were finally closed. Dishes and food were thrown everywhere. Tables and chairs were thrown across the room and reduced to kindling wood. The ship, big and fine as it was, fairly shook in the force of the gale. Passengers were unable to stand or sit without some support. Several people were cut and injured, and all showed rather anxious, subdued faces for several hours. However, the storm finally subsided after midnight, and the next day the Monarch of Bermuda, serenely glided into New York Harbor with only a cargo of broken dishes and furniture, and a few bruised passengers to tell the tale.