Notes from the Field
THE "GOSPEL WAGON," RIGBY STAKE
Timpanogos Stake. "ADA," the Book of Mormon play written by Neil C. Clegg, of Ogden, was presented in the Pleasant Grove High School Auditorium, March 2, 1932. The play was given under the direction of the Timpanogos Stake Relief Society board. The cast was selected from the six wards of the stake, and represented both talent and experience. The story of the play is based on the history contained in III Nephi, and was especially interesting to Relief Society members because of the study of the Book of Mormon in the lesson course. The players were exceptionally well prepared, the costumes very effective, and the lighting effect was beautiful. The house was filled to overflowing with an appreciative audience. By special request the play was repeated to a crowded house. There were in the audience visitors from the Alpine, Lehi and Kolob stakes. The stake board members who had this work in charge are to be commended for their efforts in putting before the public so effectively an entertainment of such real merit."
Rigby Stake. THE above picture is characteristic of the faith and "stick-to-it-iveness" of the Relief Society sisters of the Bybee Ward, Rigby Stake. When the roads are impassable for autos, and impossible for sleighs, the meetings continued with a large attendance, the sisters coming in what they christened "The Gospel Wagon." Meeting was held this day at the home of Mrs. J. M. Bright. Those in the picture are: Sisters Ida Hoffman (owner and driver), Myrtle Kinghorn, Rose Chivers; second seat: Oriole Brown and daughter Bonnie, Eliza Lee; back seat: Melba Kinghorn and daughters, Lois and Mary Lee."
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
479
TREE PLANTING SERVICE, LOS ANGELES STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY
Los Angeles Stake. "A VERY impressive tree planting service was held in the early spring by the Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, in the patio of the Stake House, between the stake conference sessions, with several hundred people in attendance. The congregation sang "America," after which Stake Relief Society President Laura P. Hotaling, gave a few introductory remarks, and explained the purpose of the tree planting. Stake President Leo J. Muir gave a five minute address, mentioning several important events in the life of Washington and the appropriateness of tree planting in commemoration of the birth of the first president, as tree planting is a service for future generations. "Trees" was sung by Sister Mamie Stark. Stake President Leo J. Muir and Stake Relief Society President Laura P. Hotaling, put the first shovelsful of soil around the tree, followed by the stake board, and others. The tree planted was an incense cedar. No other tree of its size forms so exactly tapered a pyramid. The leaves are a bright green, and in winter, when most trees are asleep, it puts forth its yellow flowers. It is invincibly beautiful and worthy of its place beside the Douglas Spruce and great pines. It frequently lives more than a thousand years. The stake board was very ably assisted in choosing the tree, and an appropriate place for planting it, by the stake representative on the High Council, Dr. John W. Freestone, and Stake Superintendent of Sunday Schools, W. G. Wooley."
Fremont Stake (Independence Ward). "WE have received the following report from the Independence
480
Ward Relief Society, of the Fremont Stake: 'The faithfulness and courage of our ward Relief Society officers is well illustrated by an incident which happened in the Fremont stake during this past hard
INDEPENDENCE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, FREMONT STAKE
winter. There was a terrible blizzard on Tuesday, and the husband of one of the outlying ward presidents, told her that she could not go—the weather was far too bad. But she said that she had made the appointment for a meeting, and that
INDEPENDENCE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, FREMONT STAKE
she must try to meet it. She took the team and sleigh, and started out. The trip was a terrible one; many times the horses refused to face the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
storm, but Sister Thomason encouraged them onward. Three times she called for sisters, each of whom was ready and waiting to go. Finally they reached the meetinghouse, and were so thankful that they had come, for there were five sisters already at the meeting place. Each felt that she must go because the weather was so bad perhaps no one else would make the effort to meet the president. In this we see that the spirit of the pioneers is not dead, and that the sisters of today are filled with the same devotion and love of their work. After the meeting when all her members were safely home again, there was still a mile to retrace before Sister Thomason herself would be by her own fireside to warm her aching fingers and to shake off the chill that seemed to have penetrated her bones. All the remainder of the evening a happy song was singing in her heart. There was no depression of spirit when she contemplated her recent struggle, but a pride of mastery. A soul illuminated by the light of a duty accomplished even though the elements conspired against her."
Eastern States Mission (Washington, D. C., Branch). "THE Relief Society of Washington, D. C., boasts a very active organization, presided over by Margery Brown Cottam, president; Lona Stratford Hyde, first counselor; Bessie Gardner Hales, second counselor; and Bernice Manwaring, secretary. They are assisted by an able corps of officers and teachers.
"Theology class is conducted by Sister Clara Holbrook Jarvis, who was one of the first lady missionaries to be sent to England. Sister Grace
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND TEACHERS OF WASHINGTON, D. C. BRANCH, EASTERN STATES MISSION
Stringham Colton, who was chosen to head the first Relief Society seven years ago, has conducted the literary lessons in her own unique manner. As a fitting climax to the course of study, short stories of unusual merit were written and read by several members. The social service lessons, under the direction of Verna Scott Sanford, have been made especially worthwhile through the supplementary lectures given by eminent social workers. In spite of not having a chapel, and very little equipment, the work meetings, under the guidance of Linda Simmons Overlade, have been most profitably spent. Four quilts have been pieced and quilted, three complete layettes made, and miscellaneous articles donated by members have been made over for distribution to the needy. A special sunbonnet memory quilt was embroidered and presented to the president, Sister Cottam. Sister Vera Sjodahl King, a former president and an active worker in several capacities, has been an inspiration to her corps of visiting teachers, who despite the widely scattered districts, have made an enviable record. Mary Hyde has served faithfully as Magazine agent; Melba C. Osmond, as chorister, with Myra Grant Wallace as her assistant, and Frances O. Berrett as organist.
"Among the officers and teachers this year are several who have acted continuously in various capacities since the beginning of the organization.
"One sad memory of the year has been the death of one of our most faithful members, Mrs. Eleanor Hodges, a convert from New York. She has been in Washington for many years, and ever since her arrival has been an active officer and member.
"The outstanding social event of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ORGANIZATION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN NAUVOO, SUGAR WARD, FREMONT STAKE
the year was the formal birthday reception held at the home of Hon. And Mrs. Don B. Colton. Voluntary contributions were placed in the decorative 'birthday cake' made by Sister Kate Isbell. A delicious buffet luncheon was served under the supervision of Lucille Rogerson Smith and Henrietta Bohn. Instrumental music was furnished by Ruby Epperson McQuarry, Rose Seegmiller, and Bernice Manwaring.
"Funds have been greatly augmented through the receipt of several substantial donations from L. D. S. Government workers who designated that their Community Chest contributions be forwarded to our organization. This has made possible an extensive program of relief work. The officers and members unanimously feel that a most profitable and enjoyable Relief Society year has been completed."
Boston Branch: Another very progressive branch of the Eastern States Mission is that of Boston. Many of the talented young women from the West, whose mothers are Relief Society workers, are carrying on in this city of culture and education. A delightful account came to the office of the presentation of "The Resurrection," presented by the Boston Branch Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Cantabrigia Club, Cambridge, Mass., March 27, 1932. Not only the daughters, but the sons of Relief Society mothers, are doing their part, for in this rare musical treat, the services of Rulon Robison, son of our General President, were largely responsible for the excellence of the production.
Sugar Ward. THE above picture is of the group of sisters who presented the little play, "The Organization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo." This
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
483
happy event was in Sugar Ward, Fremont Stake, and celebrated the ninetieth anniversary of the organization. It was most realistic, and a very appropriate and delightful entertainment.