[Vol44 | June 1957 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Poem | Title: Mother and Child| Author: Enola Chamberlin]
preparation  of  food.  It  is  prepared  by  grating  the  coconut  meat  and  straining  the 
cream  from  the  pulp. 
ilLother   and    i^hud 
Enoh  Chamheilin 
When  she  is  well  and  filled  with  joy 
She  races  in  ecstasy. 
Giving  to  others  love  and  smiles 
As  much  as  she  gives  to  me. 
And  yet  when  the  little  heart  is  hurt. 
And  pain  swells  the  small  skinned  knee. 
She  eagerly  runs  to  my  open  arms 
And  snuggles  down  to  me.

uielp    Ljourself  to  uiappiness 
Fmnces  C.  Yost 
TIME  was,  when  I  had  moods,  philanthropists  with  money,  but  we 
Sad  days  would  come  along,  can  all  be  generous  of  ourselves.  In 
and  I  could  not  lay  my  finger  my  little  way  I  started  doing,  like  a 
on  the  reason.     Moodily,   I  would  boy  scout,  a  good  turn  daily.    I  try 
get  to  feeling  that  nobody  liked  me,  to  give  of  my  substance,  although 
and  I  brooded  about  it.    Then  one  I   have   found   people   are   literally 
day  I  changed  my  whole  way  of  liv-  starved  for  attention,  compliments, 
ing.     I  found  how  to  help  myself  praise,     and     encouragement,    and 
to  happiness.  these  things  cost  nothing. 
There  were  things  I  decided  to  3.  Be    a    good   listener.     When 
incorporate  into  my  life  to  make  it  someone  speaks,  I  try  to  listen  with 
full  and  meaningful.     Could  I  do  the  eyes  and  with  the  mind,  and 
these   extra   things    in   addition    to  concentrate  on  what  is  being  said, 
my   already  heavy  load?     It   takes  whether  it  is  a  child  or  adult  speak- 
time  to  be  a  mother  to  four,  house-  ing.     If,  for  some  reason  there  is 
keeper  to  nine  rooms,  gardener  to  an    interruption,    as    soon    as    pos- 
lawn,    flowers,    garden,    and    straw-  sible  I  say:     'Tou  were  telling  us
