[Vol44 | June 1957 | Sequence: 37 | Category: Poem | Title: Epitome| Author: Vesta N. Lukei]
Giving  to  others  love  and  smiles 
As  much  as  she  gives  to  me. 
And  yet  when  the  little  heart  is  hurt. 
And  pain  swells  the  small  skinned  knee. 
She  eagerly  runs  to  my  open  arms 
And  snuggles  down  to  me.

uielp    Ljourself  to  uiappiness 
Fmnces  C.  Yost 
TIME  was,  when  I  had  moods,  philanthropists  with  money,  but  we 
Sad  days  would  come  along,  can  all  be  generous  of  ourselves.  In 
and  I  could  not  lay  my  finger  my  little  way  I  started  doing,  like  a 
on  the  reason.     Moodily,   I  would  boy  scout,  a  good  turn  daily.    I  try 
get  to  feeling  that  nobody  liked  me,  to  give  of  my  substance,  although 
and  I  brooded  about  it.    Then  one  I   have   found   people   are   literally 
day  I  changed  my  whole  way  of  liv-  starved  for  attention,  compliments, 
ing.     I  found  how  to  help  myself  praise,     and     encouragement,    and 
to  happiness.  these  things  cost  nothing. 
There  were  things  I  decided  to  3.  Be    a    good   listener.     When 
incorporate  into  my  life  to  make  it  someone  speaks,  I  try  to  listen  with 
full  and  meaningful.     Could  I  do  the  eyes  and  with  the  mind,  and 
these   extra   things    in   addition    to  concentrate  on  what  is  being  said, 
my   already  heavy  load?     It   takes  whether  it  is  a  child  or  adult  speak- 
time  to  be  a  mother  to  four,  house-  ing.     If,  for  some  reason  there  is 
keeper  to  nine  rooms,  gardener  to  an    interruption,    as    soon    as    pos- 
lawn,    flowers,    garden,    and    straw-  sible  I  say:     'Tou  were  telling  us 
berry  patch,  and  to  serve  commu-  about.    .    .    ."     The   informer  will 
nity  and  Church.  Although  my  days  never  forget  your  kindness,  and  will 
seemed  steeped  with  work,  I  could  remember  you   as   a   good   conver- 
not  strike  one  item  from  my  list.  sationalist. 
*Tou  will  need  more  hours  in  a  4.  Read  something  of  lasting  value 
day  to  accomplish  what  you  have  each  day.    There  is  so  much  of  good 
outlined,"  I  told  myself.    Then  my  reading  in  the  world,  scriptures,  his- 
better  self  replied:  "I  shall  find  time  tory,    biography,    poetry,    to    name 
for  these  things  that  really  count."  but  a  few.    Choose  something,  even 
I  pass  along  my  guide  for  living  if  you  have  to  do  snatch  reading, 
in  the  hopes  that  you,  too,  can  help  for    even    an    artesian    well    needs 
yourself  to  happiness:  priming  occasionally. 
1.  Do  an  unpleasant  or  neglected  5.  Do  something  in  a  musical 
job.  Time  was  when  I  would  dread  way.  Everyone  can  enjoy  music, 
cleaning  out  a  drawer,  the  basement,  It  was  Congreve  in  The  Mourning 
or  typing  a  funeral  service  for  some-  Bride,  who  said:  ''Music  hath 
one.  I  was  the  world's  worst  pro-  charms  to  soothe  the  savage  breast." 
crastinator.  Now,  I  never  dwell  on  It  is  true  that  music  lifts  the  soul  as 
a  task  at  hand,  I  just  surprise  my-  nothing  else  will.  As  a  child  I 
self  by  doing  one.  It  is  surprising  longed  for  a  piano  and  lessons.  Now 
how  dreaded  tasks  get  behind  one  I  am  grown  I  play  each  day  for  my 
when  one  a  day  is  done.  own     entertainment.     The     music 
2.  Do  at  least  one  kind  deed  a  day  that  was  hard  to  play  last  week  is 
for  someone.     Few  of  us  can  be  much  easier  this.     No  one  is  too 
Page  376

HELP  YOURSELF  TO  HAPPINESS 
377 
old  to  begin  learning  music.  If 
no  instrument  is  at  hand,  the  dish- 
pan  is  a  lovely  accompaniment  for 
your  own  voice,  and  there  is  also 
radio  or  phonograph  music  to  en- 
joy. 
6.  Do  something  to  beautify.  This 
can  entail  a  lot  of  time,  or  be  as 
simple  as  pulling  a  weed,  picking 
up  a  gum  wrapper,  setting  a  lawn 
sprinkler,  or  making  tiebacks  for 
the  kitchen  curtains. 
7.  Do  something  creative,  some- 
thing lasting.  Someone  has  said,  a 
woman's  work  is  never  done.  True, 
she  cleans,  cooks,  washes,  and  irons, 
and  does  those  same  tasks  over  and 
over,  but  you  can  save  time  for  cre- 
ating a  little  sewing,  crocheting,  em- 
broidering, or,  if  you  are  gifted, 
each  day  you  may  work  on  a  poem, 
or  a  painting.  Keats  wrote:  ''A 
thing  of  beauty  is  a  joy  forever." 
8.  Look  up  and  out.  Too  many 
of  us  get  in  the  habit  of  going 
around  looking  at  our  shoes.  The 
beauty  of  the  universe  escapes  us. 
Arise  early  enough  to  enjoy  the 
sunrise  occasionally,  or  watch  the 
sunset,  because  they  never  happen 
exactly  the  same.  Take  time  to 
watch  the  changing  patterns  of  the 
clouds.  An  artist  friend  has  seen 
the  same  bear-shaped  cloud  a  num- 
ber of  times,  and  she  watches  eager- 
ly for  this  facsimile.  Look  as  far 
as  the  eye  can  reach. 
9.  Enjoy  God's  greatest  creation, 
humanity.  Each  of  us  can  find 
that  people  are  interesting.  Someone 
has  said  if  you  want  to  grow,  as- 
sociate with  older  people  while 
young,  and  younger  people  when 
you  are  old.    But  each  day  enjoy  all 
people.  It  was  Lincoln  who  said, 
''.  .  .  the  Lord  prefers  common- 
looking  people.  That  is  the  reason 
he  makes  so  many  of  them."  So, 
enjoy  the  imagery  of  little  persons 
and  the  wisdom  of  the  aged. 
10.  Be  a  real  helpmate.  If  you 
have  given  yourself  in  marriage,  re- 
member to  give  of  yourself.  Be 
your  best  for  that  certain  someone. 
Freshen  up  for  him  before  the  day 
starts,  and  make  your  voice,  your 
smile,  your  personality  sparkle  for 
him  all  day.  Try  to  do  something 
special  to  please  him,  like  making 
a  batch  of  his  favorite  cookies  or 
cake.  A  man's  heart  is  very  close 
to  his  stomach.  So  be  a  helpmate 
as  God  intended  a  wife  should  be. 
11.  Review  the  most  beautiful 
experience  of  the  day.  When  day 
is  finished  and  you  find  yourself 
between  cool  white  sheets,  pick 
from  your  day  a  beautiful  memory. 
All  the  cares  and  troubles  of  the  day 
may  pass  into  oblivion  as  you  dwell 
on  this  happy  memory.  It  need 
not  be  a  big  event,  little  things  are 
beautiful  too.  Whatever  it  be,  let 
the  memory  of  it  be  your  last 
thought,  as  you  drift  off  to  slumber. 
Pleasant  memories  will  bring  pleas- 
ant expressions  to  a  time-etched 
face. 
Those  are  some  of  my  guides  to 
living.  Some  of  them  take  very 
little  time.  They  fit  into  the  regu- 
lar doing  of  most  any  day.  When 
too  much  time  is  spent  on  one,  sev- 
eral others  will  work  in,  in  almost 
no  time  at  all,  to  compensate.  I 
find  that  one  often  helps  another. 
I  pass  them  along  to  you,  in  the 
hopes  that  from  them  you,  too,  may 
help  yourself  to  happiness!
