[Vol44 | June 1957 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Romney]
[The Bright Star — Chapter Four Dorothy S. Romney]

To avoid the usual conglomeration of presents, Vida had seen that her friends learned of her selected patterns of silver, china, pottery, and sterling. If guests couldn't afford a spoon, they could send a pottery dish. That shouldn't work a hardship on anybody, Vida had decided. Already Aunt Rose knew of some insurrection. Uncle George had selected an enormous kitchen clock, shaped like a sunflower, "So Jack can get to work on time." Rose herself had purchased a wall can opener, accompanied by a book Two Hundred and Fifty-Seven Ways to Prepare Canned Foods. She distrusted her niece's cooking ability. With all the present-day activities of young people, cooking, somehow, seemed relegated to the background. "You don't mean to say Mother is giving you the double-weddingring quilt? I always knew she fayored you, but I didn't think anyone would get that! It's her most cherished possession. The history of the whole family is sewed up in it." 'What do you mean?" Vida asked curiously. "The wool bats are from Uncle Fred's sheepherd. With all these new synthetic materials, they say that sheep, like horses, are on the way out. But, to my way of thinkthere is nothing like a good nel filling for warmth." Page 382 66 ():: dear. I'm afraid Grandma "That delphinium blue it is lined with is a lovely color," Vida admitted. "Do you know what that is? It's raw silk from China that Maud purchased in Honolulu. She brought it as a present to Mother when she made the trip to Hawai on the Lurline." "And Grandma put it in the quilt!" "The double-wedding-ring is a beautiful idea. Many men nowadays wear a wedding ring on their left hands to indicate that they are matried. The pattern was brought into our family bv Great-GreatGrandmother Paul when she walked across the plains before the railroad came to Salt Lake. One Scotch plaid piece of cloth actually is from a dress that belonged to her little girl, Annie, who died and was buried by the side of the road." "Honestly!" "Yes, and it's the tartan of our ancestors in Scotland." "What about the Irish side of the house?" Bv now Vida was regretting her former feeling. "I guess the bits of green are from the Emerald Isle,' Aunt Rose vouchsfed, with a twinkle in her eye. "We'll appreciate the quilt now, if we are lucky enough to get it," Vida confessed. "You must show us the pieces and tell us their history." "The most precious things to me," said Aunt Rose, tears coming into her eyes, "are the many hours THE PATCHWORK QUILT and the tiny stitches Mother put into it, to say nothing of the fine co-operative project the ward Relief Society members made of quilting. * ek KK K OK The young people were married on a spring-like day in early summer in the beautiful new Los Angeles Temple. After the ceremony, they sped home to a family dinner. This was followed in the evening by a garden reception in the patio of the 383 bride's home, in a tropical setting of hibiscus, bougainvillaea, camellias, and fuchsias. 'he ushers, in white coats, led guests to the bridal couple, their parents, and attendants. Japanese lanterns lent an exotic atmosphere, while a string orchestra played sweet music. In the glassed-in lanai, the wedding gifts were displayed. Dominating the scene and spreading its ample folds in the place of honor, was Grandma's patchwork quilt. <> Shis Ls My Building Maud H. Fullmer A? I enter The Relief Society Building, I am not so conscious of the sturdiness of construction, the beauty of line or the blending of colors, as I am of the spirit of the building—the years of prayer, thought, longing, and work for just such a place. Not only do I sense a feeling of awe and reverence, but also a sense of ownership and belonging. ° Many times I sit in the lounge and read the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith inscribed on the plaque: "You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide, and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation; "And I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; "This is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads" (D. H. C., IV, page 607). Then it is that I have a song in my heart which repeats over and over again— This is My Building. I like to think that the courage, stamina, hopes, and dreams of the past leaders of Relief Society are incorporated in the spirit of the building and that Emma Smith, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, and the others who have gone on are pleased and happy with what we are doing. I am sure the work, prayers, aspirations, and dreams of the present valiant leaders are also becoming a part of the spirit of the building. I picture the women in all parts of the world who may never have an opportunity to see the building, that as they sit around their heating stoves, gather in their meetings in the cold countries; and the other dear sisters in the hot countries who sit under the shade of the trees during the heat of the day talking about the building, looking at the pictures and listening to the missionaries as they describe the beauties and functions of our building, that they, too, may feel that—This Is My Building.

And so I dream of the future and vision my daughters, my granddaughters, and great-granddaughters down through many generations as they work in Relief Society with unshakeable faith; charity in their hearts and always with the light of hope in their windows, that they too may hear that same beautiful refrain—This Is My Building —This Is My Building.