[Vol44 | June 1957 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Mental | Author: Ryan]
Barry Ryan President, National Association for Mental Health (CLOUDED by fear, ignorance, shame, and sheer disinterest, the problem of mental illness has been hidden away in the closets of society for generations while its victims have suffered intense agony, disgrace, and banishment. ~ Only now that it assumes the proportions of a national disaster have we begun to apply the same sane and intelligent approach to the alleviation of mental illness which has been used in conquering such scourges as smallpox, diphtheria, and polio. More than 250,000 new patients are admitted to mental hospitals each year, and mental disorders are estimated by the United States Public Health Service as an important factor in fifty or seventy per cent of all medical cases treated by physicians. The National Institute of Mental Health concerns itself with research and extension of community services through legally constituted bodies such as Bureaus of Mental Health in many states. The National Association for Mental Health, with forty state associations and over 500 local associations affiliated, has a six-point program for improving the nation's mental health: Education (both for citizens and professional personnel) Volunteer services (in mental hospitals and clinics) Information and referral centers Legislation (in support of sound mental health laws and appropriations) Sufficient facilities and personnel (through legislation, scholarships, institutes and seminars ) Research ON wm BW N H ~~ At the Yshtar Gate "Sic transit gloria mundi" Elsie N. Chaney Here is not glory that was Babylon But all glory in its last repose! Dust and broken brick, from which has flown All living fragrance, as a rose Lies scattered on the ground. From all their emptiness—no sound. No motion, save the flash of azure wing Wheeling where the Hanging Gardens stood. All dungeons open to the sky; no hidden thing Left secret; no sepulchre retains its golden hood. O Babylon, I never dreamed your fall so great Until I stood beside the Ishtar Gate! Page 373 Recipes trom the Samoan Tlission Submitted by Rita H. Stone Baxep F'isu IN Coconut CREAM 4 fillets of any white fish or 1 chopped onion 1 No. 1 can red salmon salt and pepper to taste pe'epe'e (coconut cream) Place fish in a shallow baking dish, cover with chopped onion. Salt and pepper to taste and cover with pe'epe'e. Bake in moderate oven for one-half hour or until set and nicely browned. Cocoa RIcE 1 ¢. Rice 2 tbsp. Cocoa 3 qts. Water 1 c. Pe'epe'e sugar to taste Thoroughly wash the rice and drain. Boil the rice in the water until soft, and add cocoa mixed with a small amount of water and sugar. Just before serving, add the pe'epe'e. This is very good for a breakfast dish. PALUSAMI taro leaves pe'epe'e small amount of chopped onion 1 12-0z. Can corn beef (if desired) Cook tender taro leaves for ten minutes in boiling water and drain well. Place the leaves in baking dish with a little chopped onion and cover with pe'epe'e. Place in moderate oven until set or thickened. Corn beef may be added for variety. Young taro leaves are one of the best Samoan greens and provide a good source of vitamins. 'his is a very common way of serving taro leaves. However, spinach leaves and Swiss chard can be used. Banana Por 8 ripe bananas leaves from orange 1 Cc. Pe'epe'e or lemon tree Mash bananas into a pulp and add the pe'epe'e. If leaves from an orange or lemon tree are available, put a few of them in also for added flavor. SALAKI 4 papayas 1 fresh pineapple or 8 ripe bananas _ 1 No. 2 can crushed pineapple 1 C. Pe'epe'e Cut papaya and bananas into small pieces. Peel and grate the fresh pineapple. (1 No. 2 can of crushed pineapple may be used in place of the fresh one.) Combine together with pe'epe'e and a few ice cubes. A very good dessert. Page 374 RECIPES FROM THE SAMOAN MISSION 375 Coconut BALLS 10 ruskets (biscuits) 1 can condensed milk 2 tbsp. Cocoa sweeten to taste Yc. Raisins coconut as needed % c. Chopped nuts Mix together the crushed ruskets, the nuts, cocoa, raisins, and the milk, and press into little balls. 'Then roll them in the coconut and leave to set. Do not bake. Coconut Biscuits % c. Butter 3 c. Flour 2 c. Sugar 3 tsp. Baking powder 3 c. Fresh grated coconut 2 tbsp. Karo syrup (not dried or processed) Cream the butter and sugar. Add the syrup and beat well. Stir in coconut and gradually add the flour and baking powder. If the coconut seems very moist, a little more flour may be added. Place spoonfuls of dough on a greased cooky sheet and bake in a moderate oven. Raw FisH AND PE'EPE'E Cut any boneless white fish in small pieces. Cover with lemon juice and set for three hours. Drain well. Cover with pe'epe'e and a little chopped onion, and let it stand for a few minutes and then serve. Excellent for a buffet supper or as an hors doeuvre. Note: Pe'epe'e is the Samoan name for coconut cream and is used often in the preparation of food. It is prepared by grating the coconut meat and straining the cream from the pulp.