[Vol44 | June 1957 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Lesson | Title: LESSON | Author: Young]
Visiting Teacher Messages The blackboard may be used to good advantage and should be read- LESSON DEPARTMENT ily available. Let your chalk talk, too. When the visiting teachers can read the scriptural reference and the objective from the blackboard or from a printed chart, it definitely focuses attention and aids them in remembering the message. Points to stress in the message might also be listed. Literature Pictures which may be used again this year include Shakespeare, the Globe 'Theater, and London in Shakespeare's Day. A blackboard may be used to good advantage in pointing out contrasts in some of the plays. List the main characters, or make a listing of them according to their good and evil characteristics, using different colored chalk. Blackboard or chart presentation of the three plot threads might be used for plot clarification in Lesson Eleven, ""I'welfth Night." The love interest might form two triangles centering in Olivia, the second triangle would include Maria and Sir Toby who were its instigators. Character growth of King Lear might be charted in Lesson Fourteen. Make blackboard patterns of primary and secondary plots in contrasting colors of chalk. Recordings of applicable music may be stimulating. Social Science Pictures and charts will add interest and make the lessons more forceful in this year's course of study, "Latter-day Saint Family Life." We must be sure that the pictures and 399 aids have a direct relationship to the lesson subject matter, however, and will forward the lesson objective. In Lesson Nine we may use blackboard or charts giving interesting statistics, use Church posters, or pictures of family groups, or list values and dangers of television programs and comic books. In Lesson Twelve, pictures of the temples may be shown, and a listing of the eternal blessings of temple marriage may be made. For Lesson Fourteen, a picture representing "Ihe Good Samaritan" may be shown. Music Leaders will find their lessons will be more effective by the use of good visual aids. Flash cards of music symbols, of scales in a few different keys, and of Italian words and their meaning used for tempos like andante, largo, etc., may be used as aids. Material in the text, Fundamentals of Conducting, by J]. Spencer Cornwall, will aid in teaching. Magazine Representatives Magazine representatives can make use of attractive posters, charts, graphs, and bulletin boards effectively to stimulate interest in their work. 'There is an excellent article and chart on successful selling by Thomas S. Monson in The Relief Society Magazine, April 1957, "Selling The Relief Society Magazine." The lesson previews appear far enough in advance of the time the lessons will be taught to acquaint 400 class leaders with the year's course of study, so that they may be alert to collect pictures, articles, and various aids which will enrich their lessons. The following articles on visual aids have been published in The Relief Society Magazine: "The Value and Use of Audio-Visual Aids in Relief Society,' by Leone G. Layton, January 1953, page 27. "Suggestions on 'Teaching Aids for 1953-54 Lessons," by Leone G. Layton, June 1953, page 418. "Teaching Aids for 1954-55 Lessons," by Edith S. Elliott, June 1954, page 400. "Teaching and Teaching Aids for the 1955-56 Lessons," by Mildred B. Eyring, June 1955, page 403. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 "Audio-Visual Aids for 1956-57," by Mildred B. Eyring, July 1956, page 475. Note: The following sets of pictures are available at the Deseret Bookstore, 44 East South Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah. For social science: Set of twelve black and white pictures of the temples, 6oc.. Set of twelve colored pictures of the temples, Soc. Set of seven pictures pertaining to the theology lessons, which include the following: The Prophet Joseph Smith, Angel Moroni Appearing to Joseph Smith, The Susquehanna River, Oliver Cowdery, Martin Harris, David Whitmer, and the Restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood, (six colored, one black and white) 50c plus 5c postage. One picture of the Good Samaritan, 10¢.