[Vol44 | June 1957 | Sequence: 42 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
(bixtif    ijears  J/Lgo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  June  i,  and  June  15,  1897 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
HONORING  OUR  PARENTS:  It  is  right  and  proper  that  children  shonld  honor 
their  parents,  and  what  is  more  fitting  than  to  meet  together  on  their  parents'  natal 
day  .  .  .  and  talk  o\er  the  reminiscences  of  their  childhood  and  rehearse  all  the  good 
and  pleasant  things  they  have  experienced,  and  store  their  minds  with  memories  rich 
and  precious  to  hand  down  to  coming  generations.  ...  If  children  have  differences 
they  are  soon  forgotten  and  naught  but  the  happy  times  remembered.  Ties  have  been 
formed  that  will  never  be  broken.  Children  grow  up,  get  married  and  are  in  a  measure 
separated,  but  there  is  in  each  heart  a  bond  of  love.  A  love  that  has  grown  with  their 
lives  and  will  continue  to  grow  stronger  and  stronger  while  life  shall  last,  and  in  the 
eternal  worlds  it  will  grow  no  less. 
— Editorial 
THE  PIONEER  JUBILEE:  Great  preparations  are  going  forward  here  and  in 
other  adjacent  locations  for  celebrating  the  Pioneer  Jubilee  of  a  half  century;  the  Hall 
of  Relics  is  nearing  its  completion  and  is  quite  artistic  in  design,  and  presents  some- 
thing of  the  appearance  in  its  whiteness  of  the  World's  Fair  buildings  in  Chicago.  .  .  . 
The  foundation  for  the  monument  in  honor  of  Brigham  Young  is  also  in  process  and 
the  work  is  being  pushed  as  rapidly  as  possible.  The  pioneers  themselves,  the  real 
veterans,  should  be  honored  and  made  to  feel  that  their  labors  are  appreciated  by  those 
who  are  reaping  in  great  measure  the  benefits  of  their  toil  and  endeavors.  .  .  , 
— News  Note 
VICTORIA  THE  GREAT 
The  dew  was  on  the  summer  lawn, 
The  roses  bloomed,  the  woods  were  green. 
When  forth  there  came  as  fresh  as  dawn 
A  maiden  with  majestic  mien  .... 
Longer  and  longer  may  she  reign, 
As  through  a  summer  night  serene, 
Whence  day  doth  never  wholly  wane; 
God  spare  and  bless  our  empress-queen. 
— Alfred  Austin 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE  IN  SUMMIT  STAKE:  President  Mary  C. 
Atwood  presiding,  said:  "I  am  pleased  to  say  we  have  the  annual  reports  from  every 
branch  in  the  Stake,  we  number  seventeen  branches,  three  of  them  being  in  Wyoming." 
....  Elmina  S.  Taylor  said,  ",  .  .  The  Prophet  Joseph  turned  the  key  of  knowledge 
for  women;  he  made  it  possible  for  us  to  meet  together  and  speak  of  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel.  I  say  God  bless  this  noble  band  of  sisters  that  administer  to  the  needy." 
.  .  .  Sister  Emma  Goddard  .  .  .  advised  daughters  to  love  and  cherish  their  parents 
while  they  live  ....  — L.N. 
MRS.  GARRETT'S  PARTY:  There  was  a  very  pleasant  gathering  of  brethren 
and  sisters  at  the  home  of  Elder  Geo.  B.  W^allace  in  this  city  on  the  afternoon  of 
Thursday  June  10,  the  occasion  being  the  birthday  of  his  daughter,  Mrs,  Mary  E. 
Garrett.  T'he  rooms  were  fragrant  with  the  odor  of  June  roses  ....  Sister  Garrett  is 
ver}'  fond  of  old  ladies  and  quite  a  number  were  invited  to  her  party.  Sisters  Susan 
Grant  and  Melissa  Lambson,  both  pioneers  of  1 847,  helped  with  their  remembrances.  .  . . 
— News  Note 
Page  366