[Vol8 | May 1921 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Poem | Title: Chaplet of Mother and Grandmother Verse]

A Chaplet of Mother and Grand- 'mother Verse THE GRANDMOTHER MUSES By Kate Thomas The locusts soon will blossom and bend their perfumed heads As if to watch the leafing of the growing pansy beds. The little stream will waken and come to bid good-day, Mingling its gentle music with the children's noise at play. But I—I shall be sleeping far away from all of these. T shall not smell the fragrance of the budding locust trees. The old gate will swing open—just as now—when Mary comes, With Sally and Virginia clinging tightly to her thumbs. The old floors will creak welcome to the patter of their feet, And the old walls will give answer to their voices high and sweet, But up there on the hillside, I shall have no wish to hark, 'And I shall not see the shining of their young eyes through the dark. There will not be a joyance of children at their play, Or merry high-pitched voices when they lay me deep away, But I shall know no sorrow—I shall rest me long and well; I shall sleep care-free and soundly, till I hear Heaven's matin bell. Be ye comforted, my loved ones; be ye happy, O my dears, As I cannot hear your laughter, so I cannot see your tears. 
 THE PIONEER MOTHER Maud Baggarley. Of the desert thou art pioneer, Turning from ease and mirth To wake serene and unafraid, The unblazed ways of earth. Thy thoughts unvoiced that reached from clod to star; Thy songs unsung, that ached and throbbed Within thy heart, In eyes of God, are better far Than frankincense and myrrh. For she who plays her part with courage high, Yet consecrates with prayers, Maybe through tears, The gift of self she lays upon the altar of years, Is chosen of the Lord, Her hands made strong, Ter life itself a song— Far heard triumphant song! Thus she, whose feet have pressed the sand Of every new and fearful land, Who follows her mate to the barren wild To bless, and succor, and bear his child; And where she cradles her little babe A fire is kindled, home is made, And though bleak the soil it yieldeth bread, And blossoms at length, and their souls are fed. ONE MOTHER OF MINE Bertha A. Kleinman I cannot strew your velvet bier, When you are sleeping there, And other hands must fondle yours, 'And plait your snowy hair. But I shall know, though far away, The halo on your brow, — Let others eulogize you then, I want to tell you now. I know your fore-score years and more, Their blest unwritten scope, How test and trial have teemed them full, But cannot daunt our hope. on "ak MOTHER AND GRANDMOTHER VERSE Boe IT know the harvest of your years, OW never idle day, c Seeps through the sundial of your age, Let others waste who may, T know the empty yearning years, ith all your treasures gone, he heartache and the loneliness, Yet only 800d lives on. I know the garden you have sown, So rich in every hue, Ow one by one the blooms have fled, And left' the thorns to you. No roses strewn upon your path, ave eased your Weary tread, Adversity has wrecked your plans, nd fagged your step the while, Time's hoary fingers blanched your hair— © cannot chill your smile. And though you Weary of its grey, He holds you by the hand. Tomorrow's mead you do not ask, To glean it if you could, Content with every passing day, To brim it UP with good, ut even there your face js turned, To greet the broader dawn, REMINISCENCE Mrs. Ida R. Alldredge Do we always remember to honor The fathers and mothers 8tTown old, 8 the shadows of evening close o'er them And night's darkness waits to enfold> 
 Or did we forget how they've struggled Through poverty, sickness and care, With never a word of complaining That we lighter burdens might bear? When we look at their figures so drooping And their fingers so knotted and thin, And the light in their eyes slowly fading, Do we catch the lovelight from within? Oh, we cannot half pay them in measure, But at least we can help smooth their way, That their last years may be made the brighter From sunrise till close of the day. MOTHER Maude M. Cook Mother mine! Your loving smile, Is with me hour by hour. In memory still I see your face, Glow like a pure sweet flower; Alight with love and peace and cheer, Stamped with Heaven's sweet calm, So firm in faith, so rich in trust, So beautiful to look upon. The memory of you, Mother mine, Makes all life's pathways clear; The world is full of peace and love When you are there, my Mother dear. MOTHER'S DAY Mercy R. Stevens Alone in the house of a stranger today, I think of past Sundays—the second in May. I see the bright faces and hear the glad call, And view the gay flower, a gift from them all. Alone, but not sad, for I know that today They are thinking of Mother, be whom they may. And the love in their hearts, that is loyal I know, Is dearer to me than the flower's bright glow. I hear through the mail and the telephone call: "We're longing to see you, babies and all." My heart knows no wish but the deep, fervent prayer That God may surround them with his loving care.