[Vol8 | May 1921 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Entertainment Department Morag]

Entertainment Department A Teacher's Social Morag A delightful evening entertainment recently held in a ward, in one of the nearby stakes, was a teacher's social. The Social committee of the ward was in charge, and the invited guests included the bishopric, acting ward teachers, and their partners, Relief Society teachers and their husbands, the teacher's quorum, and the teachers from the grade school. The opening number was a hymn by the acting ward teachers, "Come, let us anew." After the invocation, the Relief Society sisters sang a duet and chorus, "The Relief Society," page 126, R. S. Song Book. A humorous dialogue followed, participated in by a ward teacher and the family he was visiting. The subjects discussed were the weather, politics, high cost of living, good roads, ete.? everything but the gospel. The following number was an earnest address on the duties of a ward teacher. The school furnished a solo and a reading, after which a Relief Society teacher read a paper which related the experiences, amusing and otherwise, of a pair of teachers visiting the families on their "beat." A visiting stake officer then gave a talk on the Relief Society teacher, her duties and privileges. Delightful musical numbers were rendered by the boys' glee club, (teachers quorum) after which an adjournment was made to the Relief Society rooms where refreshments were served. Games and dancing closed a very unique and successful evening's entertainment. GARDEN HINTS By L. M. Green To scare birds from your garden, or fruit trees, get a few discarded electric light bulbs and some pieces of broken mirror. L'ix them on a line near the ground. The slightest wind will move them, and they will glitter in the sunlight and will prove an effectual scarecrow.. Transplanting Tiny Seedlings Take a strong pen-point and run the pointed end into a long cork, or reverse the point in an old pen-holder thus forming a miniature trowel which will be found a handy tool with which to "prick out," or transplant, tiny seedlings. W. R. McDONALD, Pres. D. H. CANNON, Mgr. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company Phones Was. 2328-2329 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE. Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling 4 Uses Roof Garden Chocolate (Sweetened) Cake Icing Bon Bon Dipping Hot Chocolate Eating New, different, delicious?Roof Garden Chocolate is a sweetened chocolate that is at once a dainty confection for eating, a bon bon coating, a rich drinking chocolate and an icing for cake. In any of its four uses, Roof Garden Chocolate requires no butter, no sugar, no eggs and no flavoring.. And it's absolutely no trouble. Complete and simple directions are on every package. McDonald's New York Chicago Salt Lake San Francisco BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices.. Call at our Burial Clothes Department. Room 22 Bishop's Building. Prompt attention given all out of town orders. TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month For the past TEN MONTHS. One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement.: Have You Seen It? Dependable The Deseret News Progressive The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine, of which they will be glad to dispose at the price quoted below: 12 Vols. Of 1915 Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1915 Leather Bound 2.00 1 Vol. Of 1918 Leather Bound 2.00 1 Vol. Of 1919 Leather Bound 3.00 10 Vols. Of 1920 Leather The officers are always Ls cc 3.00 and discuss business Heber J. Grant, President. Utah Charles W. Nibley, Vice-President.. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. "DELIVERED EVERYWHERE" Ice Cream Special attention given to parcel post candy orders The Utah State National Bank glad to meet customers plans with them.. Officers Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier, Avvin C. Strone, Assistant Cashier. P. O. Box 1713 The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine, of which they will be glad to dispose at the price quoted below: 12 Vols. Of 1915 Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. of 1915 Leather Bound 2.00 1 Vol. of 1918 Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols. Of 1919 Cloth Bound.. 2.75 6 Vols. Of 1920 Cloth Bound.. 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920 Leather Bound 3.00 15c Extra for postage. All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Bldg. Salt Lake City,; Bound volumes of the Magazine make appropriate gifts. Salt Lake City Watch for Our New "Mountaineer" Strong Seam Overalls, Auto Suits, Kiddies' Allovers For Boys, Youths and Men. They don't rip; wear like leather. A SPLENDID ASSORTMENT OF CHURCH WORKS, VIEW BOOKS Utah Souvenirs in great variety GENUINE NAVAJO RUGS, MEXICAN ZARAPES, etc at the BUREAU OF INFORMATION Temple Block Salt Lake City, Utah Write for descriptive circular of INDIVIDUAL SACRAMENT SETS. A PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language?a language understood by everybody. Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"?the kind they make at Phone Was. 2861 6 Main St, Salt Lake Lumiere Studio ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Rooms 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year?Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year?I5c Single Copy.