[Vol8 | May 1921 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial The Old Order Changeth]

EDITORIAL    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - -. - -: Susa Youne Gates Business Manager - - - S 5 - - Janette A. Hyver Assistant Manager - -" - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 
THE OLD ORDER CHANGETH.
The death of President Anthon H. Lund left a wide gap in various church offices which have been filled wisely and expeditiously by President Heber J. Grant. President Charles W. Penrose, one of the truly great men of this day and age, is now the first counselor to President Grant, succeeding President Anthon H. Lund. His life has been an open book to the people of the Church almost from the beginning. Of English birth and childhood-training, he yet possesses the principles of growth, assimilation and adaptability, which made our new England fore-bears the rock ribbed foundation of this nation. President Penrose has integrity, pellucid frankness in thought and speech, a rigid standard of honor, with a sturdy independence of thought and speech which is crowned by a poetic fancy and charm that lends to his thought a poetic grace. President Penrose is a rare poet and a rarer statesman; a combination which makes him what he is, author, poet, publicist, preacher, and constitutes the elements of a character rarely found upon this earth. His home life began and still continues to radiate the same sweet simplicity of environment and
modest routine which marked the domestic atmosphere of all the founders of this Church. Coming into his advanced responsibilities thus late in his years, he still transmits to every task the natural buoyancy and hope, garnered through years of looking sky-ward in every cross road of life. President Anthony W. Ivins has always been a man among men. Early responsibilities, exacting toil, difficult surroundings and constantly changing pioneer conditions have developed the character of Pres. Ivins as no soft conditions could possibly do; his rugged environment has sunk into the depths of his nature, and deepened his naturally retiring and reticent disposition. Circumstances and providence have mined the rich gold of his character, bringing out to the surface the wealth of initiative gravity, magnetism and organizing ability which in such environment sometimes produces greatness. Over his somewhat grave exterior there plays a quick humor which preserves the exquisite balance between stern justice and tender sympathy. His is a nature which calls instinctively for the exercise of the best that is in his associates if they would acquire and retain his friendship and respect. Those who have once met him will always hold his friendship and confidence in high esteem, and once gained, the friend would be reckless indeed who would risk the loss of so precious a treasure. No man, after the death of the statesman, Erastus Snow, has won more of the love and confidence of the people of this Church than has President Anthony W. Ivins. He brings to the council table of the First Presidency a tempered wisdom, a poised judgment, which sees the broad visions of life no less definitely in its relation to the individual than its application to the interests of the Church. The people and their leaders are fortunate in the choice of Brother Ivins for this noble position of trust and responsibility. President Rudger Clawson succeeds to the presidency of the " quorum of the twelve apostles. Elder Clawson is one of the quiet students of this Church who accomplishes much and says little about it. He has made numerous sacrifices for the gospel's sake and has proven his sterling integrity in the early days of his youth; himself a man of modest claim, only his intimate friends know how many things have been accomplished through his suggestion and under his trained mind. He is a friend to all classes of people, the humblest and highest alike share in his courteous regard; justice and mercy, truth and loyalty, garnish his character. He brings to his exalted position the long training and experience which have prepared him to act wisely and decide righteously in all matters which may come up for his decision. He is the friend of the people no less than he is a loyal supporter of his associate brethren in the council of the Twelve.
308.. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The appointment of Elder George F. Richards to the Presidency of the Salt Lake temple has met with the most generous response from all interested people. He has before taken a personal interest in the ordinance work of this temple -for a long time, going himself and engaging in the work for his dead as frequently as his many duties permitted. At the head of the Richards family organization, he has an important place, and his forceful wisdom carries forth the policy in that organization which is but the "carrying on" the beginnings of the temple work made by his illustrious father before him?Elder Franklin D. Richards. Elder George F. Richards has the rare combination of a powerful will with a gentleness of expression, suavity of manners, and simplicity of approach; his very appearance is ideal, in his present position, and the promise of that appearance is justified by the diligent application which he is now making to acquaint himself thoroughly with the minutest details of his new responsibility and work in the Salt Lake temple. He has engaged in the genealogical work in our society. All who come up for blessings in the sacred house of the Lord rejoice in the appointment of Elder George F. Richards, he has chosen his assistants wisely?Elders Joseph F. Smith and Albert Davis are his counselors. Elder Smith himself is thoroughly familiar with temple work both through tradition and the teachings of his noble father, the late President Joseph F. Smith, and through his own careful study of the problems contained in the daily exercise of temple functions. Gifted with his father's studious application to spiritual things, he has also inherited much of his father's wisdom and dignity. His occasional morning talks in the temple are gems of inspirational insight, and through his intellectual and spiritual application he is beloved by all who know him; and who is there that does not? Elder Joseph Fielding Smith has been named as the Church Historian and general Church Recorder. The position was held by his great-uncle, George Albert Smith, then by his father, then by Elder Franklin D, Richards, and then by our late lamented President Anthon H. Lund. Elder Smith brings to his task a great comprehension of the limitless scope of his work, and of the necessary human difficulties which lie in the way of the full development of this great Church institution. He has a keen appreciation of spiritual values, a wise adjustment of intellectual problems therein involved. He is as familiar with the history and traditions of this people as any man of his generation. He feeds the people that rare spiritual food for which they hunger and thirst, while his sermons and writings are as sound in doctrine as they are fruitful in thought. He will approach his new responsibilities with a conservative, yet happy, enthusiasm which augurs
well for the work entrusted to his care. His assistants, Elders, Andrew Jenson, Brigham H. Roberts, A. William Lund and Junius F. Wells, are all fitted to render noble service in this important work of the Church. The choice of the new apostle, John A. Widtsoe, pleases many classes of our people; the family of Brigham Young are happy in the thought that a grand-son-in-law has been chosen to represent, in a way, the family in the leading quorum of the Priesthood. Dr. Widtsoe has for sometime been engaged in the labors of compiling and arranging the sermons of President Brigham Young as the first step in the preparation of his history which will follow in due course. He is beloved by all the Young family who repoice in this representation for them. He represents also his people, the Scandinavians of the Church, who have formed so strong a bulwark of righteousness and so loyal a pillar of strength in the up-building of this Church and kingdom. The Scandinavian people rejoice in the selection of Brother Widtsoe to fill the vacancy in the apostle's quorum left by the death of our late beloved leader and President, Anthon H. Lund. The best type of educational interests are also represented in the selection of Dr. Widtsoe. His new sphere will develop all the latent powers which may have been left untouched in his more circumscribed field of educational labors. His successor in the University has so far not been chosen, but he leaves his task in the state school with
the hearty good will of all his co-workers and associates.