[Vol48 | April 1961 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Trunnell]
Antidote Cynthia M. Trunnell E have a yard in which the grass grows green and strong because of good seed, good soil, fertilizer, and water. Here and there are also growing dandclions and other weeds, vigorous and hardy from the same soil and fertilizer and water that benefit the grass. 'They spread out their uneven patterns across the lawn, marring the smooth green effect we are trying to achieve. 'This morning we sprayed the grass and the weeds with a poison mixed with water. The weeds will die because of this spraying, but the grass will not be damaged, will receive only the benefit of the water in the mixture. If we were to spray the vegetable garden, however, the vegetables would die with the weeds. I wonder what protects the grass. Is it some built-in immunity? Irregularly I know that with the good influences that are sprayed across my _ children's minds from television, movies, radio, and magazines, are mixed some poisons. The strength and appeal of these poisons [ cannot judge. Their specific potency I can only guess. My children are not like the weeds, unplanted, untended, unwanted, untaught, but what if they are like the vegetables, lacking immunity to the poisons of life from which they cannot be completely shielded? How can I guard them by building into them some universal immunity to protect them as the grass is protected, from within? The only such means of immunity I know is the gospel of Jesus Christ, taught to them with love and conviction, reinforced consistently by daily example. I believe and pray they will obey the gospel and be immune to poisons from which I cannot shield them. The spacious, new headquarters housing executive offices and re- — cerding studios of the Columbia Research Group, located at 3600 wong Morke? Street in the Granger orea ef Greater Salt Lake City. Columbia Research Group invites you to join LDS RECORD CLUB Here is a new dimension in the presentation of the written heritage sacred to all LDS families. The LDS RECORD CLUB will present not only the standard works of the Church and dramatized stories, but the best of inspirational literature and truly good entertainment... Works available on record nowhere else. Listeners of all ages will find new meaning and inspiration through these Hi-fidelity recordings. As teaching aids, missionary tools, or simply for your uplifting entertainment, the offerings of the LDS RECORD CLUB will be permanent treasures. LDS RECORD CLUB MEANS @ Finest recorded works of special interest to LDS members. (All standard works will be offered!) @ Liberal Bonuses to LDS RECORD CLUB members. (Gift recordings, first opportunities, exclusive privileges) MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY > Your enclosed $1.00 registration fee will bring you "A Voice From The Dust" — recorded excerpts from the Book of Mormon. *See od in March Relief Society Magazine. @ You order only what you want, when you want it! (No minimum orders required to maintain membership.) @ Premium coupons given with every purchase toward future releases. (Plan your buying from our advance lists... To members only.) RECORDS AVAILABLE SOON! *"The Joseph Smith Story" "The Brigham Young Story" "Pearl of Great Price" "Doctrine and Covenants" "New Testament' "Old Testament" and many others, (Blind and near-blind register free with bishop's signature) Columbia Research Group—3600 Market St., S. L. C. 4, Utah Enclosed is my $1.00. Please enroll me as a member of the LOS RECORD CLUB.