[Vol48 | April 1961 | Sequence: 28 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far

I appreciate very much the fine address of Elder Marion G. Romney in the February issue of The Relief Society Magazine "The Rewards of Welfare Service." I think Mabel Harmer's continued story "Love Is Enough" is most interesting and so well written. The story "My Own Stove, My Own Table," by Sarah O. Moss is tender, indeed. Of course, I read the entire Magazine and enjoyed it over and over.
—Frances C. Yost
Bancroft, Idaho

Yesterday I received my copy of the January Magazine, and the first thing I did was to read the first prize story ("Grafted" by Hope M. Williams). It brought tears to my eyes to read such a touching story
—Margene Stringham
Logan, Utah

It thrilled me to the heart to read "My Third Grandma" (by Ilene H. Kingsbury) in the September, October, and November 1960 issues of The Relief Society Magazine, because it is the story of my own dear Grandma Morgan. Older people than I here in Beaver have recalled that the author must be Ilene Hanks Kingsbury who lived next door to Grandma Morgan.
—Erma White Kerksiek
Beaver, Utah

I loved the Magazine cover for January by Claire Noall. The Magazine is my inspiration.
—Ida Isaacson
Salt Lake City, Utah

I like our Relief Society Magazine very much. It is a very lovely periodical. The stories and the poems are all good reading and of the highest quality. Then there are the religious parts of the Magazine, and they are all for the benefit of making Latter-day Saints live better and help us to remember the promises we made when we became members of the Church.
—Susannah Sharp Crashaw
Hermosa Beach, California

I just love your beautiful Magazine with such wonderful colors and scenes for the covers, also the poems and short stories and cooking hints. I enjoy every minute of reading this Magazine. I bless the day that my sister-in-law Gladys Wray had the wonderful thought of sending the Magazine to me. I am not a member of your wonderful Church, but I do know you have wonderful people who belong.
—O. M. Wray
Mold, Flintshire North Wales
British Isles

I must write and tell you how much I love the covers in color on the Magazine. They are so beautiful. The October 1960 cover is especially dazzling. It makes me feel as if I were really standing on a hill looking at the scene myself.
—Nora O. Caldwell
Grantsville, Utah

Being recently converted to this wonderful faith, I would like to tell you of my luck. While reading one of The Relief Society Magazines, I noted that no back numbers could be obtained. Well, I was fortunate to receive twenty-two Magazines from Sister Eve England, and her daughter has sent me a Christmas gift of a year's subscription. I have enjoyed reading these books and very much like the recipes. The lessons are an inspiration, and there is so much that a new member can learn about the Church. The covers are beautiful.
—Mrs. C. Nell
Carletonville South Africa

Yesterday I came across the December Relief Society Magazine. It was coverless, for I had removed the beautiful painting of the Madonna, to keep, but I saw again the frontispiece poem with its haunting lines, and I remembered how I had enjoyed it, and the Frances Yost story "Grandma's Surprise Packages," and the other nice things in the Magazine.
—Dorothy J. Roberts
Salt Lake City, Utah