[Vol48 | April 1961 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Fiction | Title: Pioneer | Author: Rich]
[Pioneer Kitchen, Alice R. Rich,]
[Pioneer  Jxitchen 
Alice  R.  Rich 
nnilE  word  toq^etherness  has  a  deeper  meaning  for  me  than  the  dictionary  definition. 
'-       The  sound  of  it  invites  me  to  travel  a  childhood  trail  back  to  my  mother's  pioneer 
kitchen,  the  big  family  workshop.    That  room  knew  the  true  meaning  of  the  word. 
A  burning  pine  back  log  in  the  wide  fireplace  warmed  and  helped  make  light  the 
work  space.  All  the  family  from  parents  to  the  young  children  shared  in  the  prepara- 
tion of  almost  everything  the  big  family  ate  or  wore. 
The  farm,  garden,  orchard,  and  range  land,  with  hand  labor,  produced  the  bread, 
milk,  meat,  butter,  cheese,  chickens,  eggs,  fruit,  vegetables,  honey,  molasses,  wool,  and 
e\en  boots  and  shoes.  These  last  were  made  from  oil-tanned  hides  made  into  leather 
at  a  local  tannery. 
Ours  was  a  typical  pioneer  kitchen.  It  had  wide  pine-board  floors,  whitewashed 
walls,  iron  cooksto\c,  woodbox,  wash  bench,  water  buckets  and  wash  basin,  roller 
towel,  mirror,  comb  case,  sewing  machine,  almanac,  and  wood  chairs.  In  the  middle  of 
the  room  was  the  big  fall-leaf  table,  and  around  it  much  of  the  work  of  togetherness 
centered. 
On  that  sturd\'  oilcloth-covered  table  many  hands  worked  in  various  activities. 
There  the  year's  supplv  of  farm-fattened,  dressed  hogs  were  trimmed;  the  hams,  bacon, 
lard,  headcheese,  spareribs,  tenderloin,  and  sausages  were  readied  for  table  use  for  the 
present  time  and  for  the  months  ahead.  On  that  table  top  were  prepared  the  orchard 
and  garden  grown  \iands  for  preserves,  jellies,  mincemeat,  chowchow,  chili  sauce,  sweet 
pickled  peaches,  and  relishes.  On  its  oilcloth  cover  were  rolled  and  shaped  pie  paste, 
cookies,  fried  cakes,  cinnamon  buns,  and  the  tender  soda  biscuits.  Fresh  from  the 
oven  the  great  tins  of  homemade  bread  came  to  cool,  always  so  crusty  and  tempting. 
The  weekly  ironings  were  always  done  on  the  same  table  top,  and  there  were
