[Vol48 | April 1961 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Fiction | Title: On]
Nome Address City Page 277 On Second Thought Stella Hatch N this tension-filled whirl we live in, I've found an oasis. It is second thought. I cannot tell exactly when I discovered it, but it has saved me untold anxiety. I can truthfully say it has given me peace of mind. Take for example — money. I used to spend it when I had it and hardly knew where it went, or whether it would reach or not. Now I plan for it. Then, on second thought, I replan it and it reaches, because I find things there that I can very well do without. It is a big relief when I do. When my children must have this or that luxury, I very firmly give it my second thought and let the children work for the money. 'They appreciate it more. Just last week I planned an evening at the movie for me and the children, then, on second thought, I bought ice cream cones for us and our new neighbor's children, and we spent two wonderful hours getting acquainted. I have been accomplishing my work by doing certain things on certain days and have been nervous and upset when anything interfered. On second thought, I sat down and made a list of the things I just had to do to keep a moderately clean house, a well-fed family, and presentable washings and ironings. Then I listed all the extras I have been tearing my heart out about and put each one down on a separate recipe card. Now, I take one of them out every day and work on it for ninety minutes, then I have the rest of the day to live and love more than I have ever done. I am accomplishing more, I'm not worrying about what hasn't been done, because I know that someday soon the card will pop up, and I enjoy my family so much more. Of course, they are wondering what has happened to me, but I just smile and squeeze my file box. When traveling I choose a route. On second thought, I consider what I shall miss by going that way, so I reroute to have more pleasure for the same amount of gas. I have been upset many times in disciplining the children, even punishing the wrong one. Now, on second thought, I am beginning to use more reason and much prayer. My children are slowly responding to my change of attitude. I have found myself becoming more patient. My husband and I have been happier together, because when I have become annoyed about something, I give it a second thought, of what tomorrow would be like if he were taken from me. I try to greet him with a smile and appreciate the wonderful man he is.