[Vol56 | August 1969 | Page 624 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Message— The Power of Example Alice | Colton Smith]
KJot«^ 
FROM  THE  FIELD 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through  the  stake 
Relief  Society  presidents,  or  mission  Relief  Society  supervisors.  One  annual  submission  will  be 
accepted,  as  space  permits,  from  each  stake  and  mission  of  the  Church.  All  submissions  must  be 
received  within  two  months  of  the  event  described.  Submissions  should  be  addressed  to  the 
Editorial  Department,  Relief  Society  Magazine,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  84111.  For  details  regarding 
pictures  and  descriptive  material,  see  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  for  January  1966,  page  50. 
Color  pictures  are  not  used  in  this  department. 
Relief  Society  Activities 
Idaho  Stake,  Soda  Springs  Second  Ward  Honors 
Visiting  Teachers,  March  12,  1969 
Front  row,  left  to  right:  Janice  Clark,  Secretary-Treasurer,  Soda  Springs  Second 
Ward  Relief  Society;  Darlene  Clegg,  Homemaking  Counselor;  Iris  Lott,  Education  Coun- 
selor; Norma  Jo  Vance,  President;  Luella  W.  Finlinson,  member,  General  Board  of  Re- 
lief Society;  Gale  Sanders,  President,  Idaho  Stake  Relief  Society;  Ordis  Williams,  Educa- 
tion Counselor;  Beverly  Michaelson,  Homemaking  Counselor;  Asa  Hatch,  High  Council 
Priesthood  Representative. 
Remaining  sisters  are  officers  and  honored  visiting  teachers  of  the  Soda  Springs 
Second  Ward  Relief  Society. 
Sister  Sanders  reports:  "The  theme  for  the  visiting  teacher  convention  in  the  Soda 
Springs  Second  Ward  was  'It's  a  feather  in  Your  Hat  to  Be  a  Visiting  Teacher.'  This 
theme  was  carried  out  in  the  clever  invitations  delivered  to  each  sister  by  the  visiting 
teachers,  and  in  the  table  decorations.  This  function  was  held  in  celebration  of  the 
birthday  of  Relief  Society. 
"Luncheon  was  served  to  eighty-five  visitors  and  guests.  Sister  Zina  Balls  was 
honored  for  having  served  forty  years  as  a  visiting  teacher.  Sister  Luella  Finlinson  of  the 
General  Board  addressed  the  sisters  and  praised  and  encouraged  respect  for  the  call- 
ing of  visiting  teacher. 
"This  was  a  lovely  occasion  and  was  enjoyed  by  all  who  were  in  attendance." 
609
