[Vol56 | August 1969 | Page 631 | General Feature | Alberta | H. Christensen]
[Alberta H. Christensen]
August  1969 
6.  We  should  take  advantage  of  cash 
buying. 
a.  Buying  only  what  we  have  money 
to  pay  for  is  a  safety  control  on 
spending. 
b.  Paying  as  we  go  eliminates  addi- 
tional carrying  costs. 
7.  We  should  buy  in  quantity  when  possi- 
ble and  advantageous. 
8.  We  should  know  how  and  take  time 
to  read  labels,  seals,  contracts,  warran- 
ties,   guarantees,    and    certifications. 
9.  We  should  make  intelligent  use  of 
reliable  consumer  buying  information. 
10.  We  should  establish  agreeable  busi- 
ness relationships.  It  helps  to  become 
acquainted    with    the    business    firms 
where  we  shop  regularly  and  to  deal 
fairly  and  honestly  with  all  who  serve 
us. 
CONCLUSION 
Learning  to  shop  wisely  not 
only  helps  us  to  add  to  our  store 
of  provisions,  but  it  also  repre- 
sents a  definite  saving  of  our  re- 
sources of  time,  energy,  and 
money.  It  is  our  responsibility  as 
well  as  our  opportunity  to  be 
efficient  managers  of  our  finan- 
cial spending  and  saving. 
SOCIAL  RELATIONS-lmmortality  and  Eternal  Life 
Lesson  2— Restraint— Road  to  Freedom,  Part  2 
Alberta  H.  Christensen 
(Reference:  Immortality  and  Eternal  Life,  Vol.  2,  Selections  from 
the  Writings  and  Messages  of  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr., 
Melchizedek  Priesthood  Course  of  Study,  1969-70, 
Lessons  6  and  7.) 
Northern  Hemisphere:  Third  Meeting,  November  1969 
Southern  Hemisphere:  April  1970 
OBJECTIVE:  To  point  out  that  understanding  the  difference  between  immutable, 
spiritual  and  physical  laws  and  the  regulations  which  apply  to  them,  may  influence 
one's  attitude  toward  the  regulations. 
INTRODUCTION 
Our  Heavenly  Father,  with 
infinite  wisdom  and  understand- 
ing, seemingly  reveals  admoni- 
tion and  warning  to  his  earth 
children  when  that  counsel  and 
commandment     may     be     most 
needed  and  rewarding.  How  bene- 
ficial the  divine  counsel  may 
be  depends  upon  our  willingness 
to  accept  and  follow  the  re- 
vealed commandment. 
In  lessons  6  and  7  of  the 
current  Melchizedek  Priesthood 
course  of  study.  President  Clark 
626
