[Vol56 | August 1969 | Page 580 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannor\ | ]
She advises business college graduates to get positions with large firms which have good supervisors to train inexperienced employees in up-to-the-minute, practical details of business offices. Sue Ann Davis, a Cree Indian home economics instructor at Intermountain School for Indian Students in Brigham City, Utah, was honored at the April annual meeting of the Utah Academy of Sciences, Arts and Letters. She received a Meritorious High School Teaching Award for her excellent teaching, her assistance in student extracurricular affairs, and her own continuing educational achievements. Danish Princess Benedikte, who married German Prince Richard zu Sayn-Wittgenstein, became the mother of a son in April 1969. Gisella Belgeri, a brilliant Italian pianist, is a member of the internationally touring Orchestra Michelangelo de Firenze. When Baroque concertos for harpsichord are included, Miss Belgeri serves as soloist. 579 EDITORIAL / Leisure for Oneself w To some the words ''relaxation'"' and ''leisure'' may contain derogatory undertones, but the meanings in the dictionary give one pause for thought. ''Relaxation'' is stated as ''relief of bodily or mental _ effort.'' Leisure time is ''the condition of having one's time free from the demands of work or duty.'' What a precious commodity these are for a mother with many young children, or a woman burdened with exacting household duties, including that of constant nursing. One woman confided, ''l have been pressuring myself too much. I am beginning to realize that some of my waking moments need to be spent in doing something I want to do. I need to let down and take or make the time to do something to relax myself."' Advertisements of modern appliances sometimes tell of the additional time released to a busy homemaker. Too often the claim reminds the homemaker of the holes she used to make as a child at the seashore which instantly filled up with water and the holes disappeared. Two women were speaking of joys experienced in earlier days of going visiting. One explained, ''Where could you ever find the time today to go visiting, and if you did, what kind of a welcome would you have in the home where every minute seems to be scheduled fully? I'd feel guilty expecting a friend to sit down and take up her time."