Learn of Love
Rosa Lee Lloyd

WHEN Hollis heard the front door slam she put her head down on the breakfast table and burst into tears. Bill had gone without kissing her goodbye—he didn't want to make up after their quarrel last night!

She was still dabbing her eyes thinking what a stubborn mouth Bill had, that even his chin was stubborn, too, when the mailman brought Cousin Stella's invitation to her silver wedding anniversary.

An hour later, after packing her suitcase, Hollis wrote a crisp little note to Bill:

I'm accepting Cousin Stella's invitation to her silver wedding anniversary. Marrying you was the biggest mistake a woman for twenty-five years. I don't. So I'll let you know when I find out.

She took the bus to Hanover, thirty-five miles away, sighing as she leaned back in the seat. Dear, lovable Stella, happily married to big Ted Martin for twenty-five years!

Hollis felt her throat ache when she thought about it.

What would Stella say if she knew that Hollis and Bill, married only one year next week, had had a heartbreaking quarrel—that the tiniest push would send her running home to mother? But not a word about it to Stella, she promised herself; Stella had found the secret of happy marriage, and Hollis determined to learn what it was. And it might be, too, that Stella wasn't married to a man like Bill.

Stella met her at the station. She
was a dark flame of a woman, radiating love like a warm fire, exclaiming as she hugged Hollis: "You're a scarecrow—thin as a wafer! What's eating you, baby?"

It was easy to laugh when you were with Stella. You could swallow your heartache while you listened to her rich, flowing voice. Stella had a straightforward attitude about everything—even her husband and her sons.
"Ted's just the same old rascal," she went on gaily. "And the boys are away at school. Those kids! We're so grateful for them. But of course they'll get married someday and forget how Ted and I sacrificed for their schooling. But that's the way it should be."
She talked on eagerly, and Hollis thought how wonderful to look at life the way Stella did.

HOLLIS loved Stella's big, white house on Circle Street. It had that lived-in feeling, she thought enviously; you weren't afraid to curl up cozily in the comfy old chairs—even old Ezra, the dog, stretched before the fireplace as though he belonged there, and Stella didn't mind the white hairs he left on the rug.

It was fun to help with dinner. Stella had such lovely linens and dishes, older than those which Hollis had, and worn, too, but she handled them tenderly as though she loved them more with each passing year.
"We'll use the rose china," she told Hollis as they set the table.
"Ted loves those dishes—his mother gave them to us—and he likes the heavy glasses. He hates stem goblets—he's always knocking them over with his elbows—so I just use the kind that don't bother him."
"Real Ted! Real! Scalloped potatoes because Ted liked them, steak for the same reason, and the fresh apple pie was Ted's very favorite!
Her soft little mouth fell into a sour droop. So giving a man what he liked to eat was one of the little tricks of Stella's successful marriage record.

Dashing upstairs to freshen up a bit before dinner, she remembered last month when her chum, Peg, had come down to visit them and Bill had grumbled about the food all the time she was there. Could Hollis help it because Peg didn't want fattening foods like biscuits and deep custard pie made from his mother's recipe? They had quarreled after Peg left and Bill had shown a bad temper that Hollis hadn't known he had before she married him.
"This is my home," he had bellowed at her. "I expect to be treated as if I belong here. A fellow gets hungry for something besides spring salad and crackers!"
Hollis had cried herself to sleep that night. Why hadn't Bill married a cook if that meant so much to him, she had asked herself, desperately.

Now as she changed into a gay print dress, she wondered if Ted Martin had ever acted that way and what Stella had done about it?

At six o'clock everything was ready for dinner. Stella and Hollis listened to the radio while they waited for Ted. Hollis, still smiling,
studied Stella's reaction to his tardiness closely. But Stella was serene as a Sunday morning walk. Once her eyes strayed to the clock and she said, casually, "Ted works so hard—things have piled up for him lately—he has a new stenographer this week."

Curled up in the big chair by the radio, Hollis thought how furious she had been last night when Bill didn't get home to dinner because some important letters had to be written and he was breaking in a new stenographer. Of course Bill's job was important, but after all a wife should come first!

At seven o'clock, Stella, still smiling, thought maybe they should eat dinner while things were still warm.
"Ted's like a boy," she said, aiming at Hollis with that tender mother-look, "an irresponsible boy. He likes to play on the way home."

HOLLIS saw an opening. "But, Stella! Doesn't it make you furious when he's late like this?"
"Furious?" Stella's eyes were like dark sunshine. "Why, no, Hollis, I don't think of it that way any more. Ted works so hard—he needs a little fun."

This was too much for Hollis. She flopped back in the big chair and stared up at Stella, her eyes a disapproving blue.
"Stella Martin! I don't believe it—you're not human, that's all. Ted could phone you, he could send a message somehow, no matter what—"
"Listen, pet," Stella's voice flowed on as smoothly as Old Man River. "If Ted has to interrupt his fun to phone me then he'll lose the some-588 fit he gets from forgetting about me for awhile."

"I give up," wailed Hollis, tossing her hands up. "If you can tell me you want Ted to forget you, even for one second, then you've stopped loving him. A wife might as well quit as to feel that way!"

Stella shook her head, pursing her lips, and her eyes darkened thoughtfully. "That's not true, Hollis. It's because I do love Ted that I feel the way I do about things. You see, honey," she sat on the arm of the chair, twirling her fingers in Hollis's rusty curls, "I used to love myself a lot more than I loved Ted or even the boys. It was always little me that I was thinking about. Oh, I was a perfect wife, all right," this in answer to Hollis's piercing look. "At least I thought I was. Now I know I was a selfish little cat."

"You couldn't be selfish," Hollis defended. "You've always been an angel to Ted and Bud and Dick, too." Stella laughed, jumping to her feet. "Maybe we better eat. Ted wouldn't want us to wait any longer."

Hollis sighed, nibbling her toast. Maybe in twenty-five years she could meet life the way Stella did. Yes, on her silver wedding day maybe she wouldn't be selfish and petty and jealous of little things. But she was afraid to think about it; she was terribly afraid there wouldn't even be an anniversary for her and Bill.

The next day Hollis met Peg Stewart at Frankens for luncheon. Dear old Peg, blond and dashing, a little plumper since Tom, Jr., had arrived, but just the same old Peg, envious and gossipy but lovable, too.
"So Stella and Ted have been married twenty-five years," she rattled on. "That is something. Oh oh, there's Ted now with his office crowd." Hollis followed Peg's eyes, blinked, started from her chair, then sat back staring at Ted Martin seated with a jolly crowd at a table across the room. A smart-looking girl with slick blond hair was telling him something very funny because Ted was laughing.

Hollis could feel prickly little darts racing up her spine. "He should've brought Stella," she said in a tight, aching voice. Peg said, one eyebrow a half-inch above the other: "Believe me, Tom and I would have a good tiff if he left me out even if it was the office crowd." Hollis puckered her lovely brows. "How can he treat Stella like this? And the day before their silver anniversary! But then, she doesn't know about it." Peg said: "Look, Holly, I'm going to call her right this minute,..." Hollis bristled. "You can't! You can't hurt Stella like that!" "Oh, can't I? Listen, sugar, someone should have spunk enough to tell Stella she's being neglected!" Peg had already started toward the telephone and Hollis knew she might as well try to stop the thunder. Resentment was a burning ache in her throat as she hurried from the restaurant alone. She was heartsick and tired of trying to understand life and people. It was a man's world no doubt of that! And Bill and Ted were just alike!

She walked the streets all afternoon, postponing the eventual showdown with Stella. Of course Peg would tell her Hollis had seen Ted, too. She couldn't pretend she didn't know about it. Her heart was falling like a hammer as she opened the door of the Martin's house at five o'clock. She hesitated in the hallway. Stella was probably in her own room crying her heart out. But no, that was the whir of the mixmaster in the kitchen and Stella's tinkling voice singing above it. Hollis was dizzy with relief. Then Peg hadn't called her after all! "Hi," Stella called. "Come on in. I'm making candy for the boys—some for your Bill, too. We don't want him to think we've forgotten him, do we?" Hollis leaned against the door frame. She couldn't breathe. Bill had forgotten her, of course. He hadn't phoned or written or even thought about her. The stubborn mule! Stella looked at her. "Say, baby, you look all in. Here sit down—quick!" She pushed a chair under Hollis. "T thought you'd be home earlier," she went on. "Peg said you ran out on her at noon." Slowly Hollis realized what Stella was saying. Peg had called her! Her hand trembled around the glass of water Stella handed to her and then suddenly she burst into tears against Stella's warm breast. Stella held her in a tight little hug, smoothing her hair tenderly. "T hate men!" Hollis sobbed. "They're mean and selfish and just try to hurt us!" 
"Don't think that way, pet," Stella was saying. "And don't let what Peg said upset you. I know it doesn't look well for Ted to lunch with his office crowd all the time. At first I thought I couldn't stand it we quarreled about it many times, but every couple does that at some time or other. I learned better after while. I'm sure now that the crowd you saw today can't take Ted away from me. Yes, I know," she held up her hand as Hollis started to speak, "you're going to tell me what fun they were having, how cute the office girl is; but listen, honey, we have to trust a little more and have a little more faith in ourselves. I know Ted loves his home and I know he loves me, so I'm not worrying." "You're not even human," Hollis interrupted, dabbing her eyes indignantly. "I can't stand Bill to be late or eat out with office crowds—I'm not an angel like you are!" Stella's eyes narrowed, her nostrils quivered, and for one tiny instant fire flickered in her eyes. "I haven't always been an angel," she answered quietly. "It's taken me twenty-five years to learn how working overtime, including Sundays. Listen, dear, it's like this, love is the secret. If you love a man enough you won't run out on your job and your job is to make a go of it. We can't let these little things get us down every day demands our very best...."

HOLLIS couldn't listen any longer. She excused herself, explaining she didn't want dinner because she'd had so much luncheon, and hurried up to her room. Stella's words kept repeating themselves, like the rhythm of her heart "love is the secret" "these little things." How could she call it a little thing when Ted neglected her like this? If that was the kind of treatment that added up to a silver wedding day then Hollis didn't want one, even if she was so lonely for Bill and sick about everything that she cried herself to sleep. But she hurried down to breakfast the next morning, eager to see if Stella had been putting on an act the night before. She'd be able to tell when she saw her with Ted. They were at the breakfast table, leaning close together reading a letter. Hollis could hear Stella's voice and she felt the rich happiness in it. Ted's arm was around her shoulders and his fingers toyed lovingly with her dark hair as she read aloud in her sweet rushing way:

"Now you know how Bud and I feel about you, Mom and Dad,

And your silver wedding day.

Proud, that's the word for it, and grateful, too. Both of us know it hasn't been easy for either of you. I can remember times when I wondered how Mom put up with you, Dad, but she always forgave you. And I can also remember a few times when Mom was plenty unreasonable and blew her top over some crazy little thing that shouldn't have mattered at all. But I'm glad she always came back smiling, ready to try again. Yes, we are the luckiest guys in the world to have a couple of parents like you. God bless you both on your wedding day and thanks for being like you are.

Thanks again for everything."

Hollis's breath caught inside her and she bit her trembling lip as she hurried back upstairs. She kept remembering the little shining glints in Stella's eyes. When she came back down an hour later, Stella had gone to do some last minute shopping and Ted was cutting the lawn. She took some toast and milk and went out to the porch swing; she watched his tall figure bent over a mower, a lock of his dark hair bouncing before his eyes, his face reddened by the sun.

"Hello, Holly," he called, dropping the handle and mopping his face. "Tough work for an old man. Whew!" He sat down in the swing beside her. "I want everything slicked up around here for the reception tonight guess I better trim that hedge, too," he added, squinting at it.

"Is today that important to you, Ted?" Hollis asked, a little edge to her voice and her eyes sardonic as she looked at him. "I mean does a silver wedding day mean as much to you as it does to Stella?"

He looked down at her, his heavy brows puckered together.

"You're a funny kid," he said, studying her intently. "Of course it means as much to me maybe more. Here, wait a minute." He dashed into the garage, was gone a minute, then came back grinning like a kid with a big balloon. "Look at this," he beamed, "I've kept it hidden in the garage so Stella wouldn't see it until tonight." Hollis looked a long time at the chest of shining silver and watched Ted as he turned each piece for her inspection. "Sterling!" he said, and the word was music on his lips. "The very best. For Stella." Hollis felt a great hot lump in her throat as he went on talking eagerly. "I've been paying for it a year. It was tough with the boys in school but I did extra work and made a little overtime. Stella has always wanted a set like this. I've watched her looking at advertisements in the magazines. I can hardly wait to give it to her—she's earned it a million times over."
His voice stumbled, and Hollis noticed a little pulse quiver in his throat.
"It's beautiful, Ted," she whispered, her heart very quiet. "She'll love it—I'm sure. . . ." Then she left him sitting there staring after her.
The reception was an informal, friendly affair, and Stella was a dream in blue velvet, standing with Ted before the white mantel, her arm in his, greeting old friends with a radiant happiness as though it hadn't been any trick at all to live twenty-five years with him, the darling!
And when Peg came, flamboyant, inquisitive Peg, bristling with curiosity to see how a wife acted on her silver wedding day, Stella was charming and poised as a calm lily.
"You're sweet!" she said, hugging Peg as though she didn't even remember how unhappy Peg had tried to make her feel yesterday. "I wish you had waited for Bud or Dick."
Peg tossed her head, laughing as she poked her finger at Ted. "Then this old meanie would have been my father-in-law. Ouch! I couldn't take it, Stella."
And Stella laughed, too, as if they shared a side-splitting secret.
Hollis watching from the dining room where she was pouring punch, noticed that Ted was different than he had been at Franken's yesterday.
His rakish grin had sobered to a tender smile and the twinkle in his eyes was a steady glowing light as he looked at Stella. Hollis realized, with a catchy little sob, that Stella had earned that look and it hadn't been easy. Dear, wonderful Stella! Hollis could feel the tears burning hot in her eyes as she turned away and ran up to her room.
Once inside she shut the door and leaned back heavily against it. She wanted a silver wedding day, too, and she wanted it with Bill. He was a thousand times more wonderful than anyone else in the world, with his sandy hair and his big, easy shoulders and that firm, stubborn mouth.
She knew now that a silver wedding day, like everything else that is good in life, has to be earned and someday—oh, maybe someday—Bill would look at her the way Ted had looked at Stella tonight; as though she meant everything that was true and lovely and worth working for.
Resolutely, her chin steady and determined, she went to the telephone and dialed her home number. And when Bill answered, his voice husky with sleep, she said softly: "Hello, Bill. I've learned—the secret. I want you to know. . . ."
There was a breathless little pause. She could imagine Bill's mouth breaking into a wide grin. "That's wonderful, honey. Wanta tell me the secret?" His voice was eager—and wistful.
"I'll tell you when I get home," she answered, knowing deep in her heart that home would always be in Bill's arms.