Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1888 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL NATIONS" INCIDENTS OF TRAVEL: In conversation with Prest. M.

Isabella Horne, of the Relief Society of this Stake, since her return from abroad, we decided to make a few notes that we thought would be of interest to our readers. In Mrs. Horne's railway journey from Salt Lake City to New York she met with quite a number of people who were interested in Utah matters, the people, the institutions, etc. Elder R. S. Horne, her son, who accompanied her, also conversed with several learned gentlemen who desired information upon the subject of Mormonism and who seemed pleased with whatever items were imparted to them.

Would that every tired heart now in exile
Could be cheered to-day as mine,
With a token of love from loved ones,
That would give such love divine.
But they cannot, so God grant that blossoms
Wherever they dwell may bloom,
And to comfort, cheer and bless them,
Be laden with "dear home" perfume.

SALT LAKE STAKE: The Relief Society Conference of this Stake of Zion was held in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms on Thursday, September 13th, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding. Mrs. S. M. Kimball addressed the meeting. She spoke of her recent visit to San Francisco and other parts of California, and the ideas people outside entertained of our people; described an interesting visit to a celebrated church, and remarked that her visit had enlarged her charity for those who were not of our faith.

The tight coat-sleeve is entirely abandoned in favor of the sleeve of puffs and plaits. A new bangle is made of gold wire in the shape of an arrow which curves around the arm. Outside pockets will be worn with fall gowns. As they are convenient and can be made ornamental, they will be heartily welcome. Bows of plaited braid appear at the foot of the skirt in all new gowns. They are well received as they look well and save the dress from wear. Realism permeates all arts even the milliners. The latest decoration for bonnets is a bunch of red clover blossoms or thistle heads.

NOTES AND NEWS: Charles Lamb's grave at Edmonton is sadly neglected. The simple slab of limestone which marks the spot is nearly hidden with weeds and grasses. The world of art owes Princess Torrearsa a great debt for the preservation of the famous collection of Greek vases brought together by the late archaeologist Serradifaleo. Through her efforts, the collection has been placed in the museum of Palermo, at Sicily, where it will be doubtless kept for all time.