All Relief Society Members Invited to Thursday September 30th Sessions of the Annual General Relief Society Conference
VERY Relief Society member is invited to attend the two sessions of the annual general Relief Society conference to be held in the Tabernacle on September 30, Thursday morning from 10 to 12 and Thursday afternoon from 2 to 4. The entire proceedings of the morning meeting will be devoted to the recognition of the completion of the Relief Society Building Fund. Each stake and mission achieving 100% of its quota will have an official representative seated in a reserved section wearing a band bearing the name of the respective stake or mission. A special feature will be the rendition by the Singing Mothers of a song written especially for this occasion. The afternoon session will be a time of rejoicing and the voicing of gratitude and thanksgiving for blessings enjoyed by Relief Society members everywhere. President George Albert Smith and President Spafford will speak at the afternoon session. It is the hope of the general board that the Tabernacle will overflow with great numbers of the sisters who have so unselfishly worked to donate to the great Relief Society Building Fund. It will be an epoch-making conference and one which will live long in the annals of Relief Society.

First Counselor
President
Second Counselor

Relief Society Congratulates Newly Appointed Y.W.M.I.A. Presidency
RELIEF Society members in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend congratulations and best wishes to the new officers of our sister organization, the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. Sister Bertha Stone Reeder, the newly appointed president, has selected as her counselors Emily Higgs Bennett and LaRue Can Longden. These women are all outstanding leaders, gifted, faithful, enthusiastic, and devoted to the welfare of the young women of the Church. Sister Reeder, the mother of two sons and a daughter, is a woman of great personal charm. She recently returned from New England, where her husband, Judge William H. Reeder, Jr., was mission president and Sister Reeder presided over the women's auxiliaries. As an organization the Relief Society feels particularly proud of this dear sister whose loyal efforts in the mission field brought many isolated organizations into close harmony with the ideals and opportunities of Relief Society. She has now been called to a position of even greater responsibility where her loving influence will help to develop the "mutual" girls into capable and loyal Relief Society members for tomorrow.

Sister Bennett, a truly ideal Latter-day Saint woman, is the wife of Harold H. Bennett and the mother of eight children. Two sons recently left for the mission field. Emily Bennett has many artistic gifts, including writing and music. Her radiant personality, her devotion to the gospel, her understanding and comradeship with young people, are qualities which will greatly influence the young women of the Church.

The new second counselor, Sister Longden, has been an active leader in Church auxiliaries ever since she was appointed stake Sunday School secretary at the age of sixteen. She has written many beautiful plays and pageants and is well known for her book and play reviews, which have been of much cultural value in her community, particularly for groups of "mutual" girls. Sister Longden and her husband, John Longden, a devoted Church worker, have two lovely daughters. The sweet and gracious influence of this wife and mother will now be further extended to include all the daughters of Zion.

As Relief Society women, we wish also to extend our love and appreciation to the retiring presidency, Lucy Grant Cannon, Verna W. Goddard, and Lucy T. Andersen. Theirs has been a service of untiring devotion, of spiritual inspiration, and most gracious leadership. May their future endeavors be blessed with much happiness and the continued enjoyment of the gifts of the gospel.