Sudden Storm
Carol Read Flake

H, what a beautiful morning!
Janet Harding caroled happily as she ran down the back steps with a pan of scraps for the dog. The world was filled to bursting with the glory of early summer—the iris bowing gracefully along the driveway, the willow tree sweeping the green carpet of lawn. Who could putter around with housework on a day like this? Besides, the flowers at the side of the house needed weeding. Janet's smile broadened at the intermittent clatter of the lawn mower around front. "That was Benny, just turned six, struggling to show his little sister that he, too, was big enough to mow the lawn." "Oh, what a beautiful da-a-y! Here, Ricky! Here, Ricky!" Janet set the pan of scraps on the ground, caught up the trowel that lay in the children's wagon, and rounded the comer of the house. "I have a wonderful fee...." The song froze on her lips. Across the hedge Marj Appleby was hanging a wash, her slight figure straightened, towel in hand, her eyes met Janet's. But only for an instant. Turning her back, she gave the towel a flip that sounded like a shot out of a gun.

Woodenly past the tangled flowers front of the house. "Mommie! Mommie!" Sharon screamed, dancing excitedly about.
 
flamed and for a rooted to the she walked to the Benny and the mower. "See what Benny do."

"Oh, hush, Sharon. Stop that screeching," Janet answered irritably, sitting down on the warm cement step. "Benny, get away from that machine."

The boy's mouth fell open. "But Mom I'm mowing the lawn. You told Daddy it gotta be mowed." 

Janet was not listening. With her chin cupped in her hands she gazed absently beyond the children, her brown eyes troubled, her heart a choking weight within her.

For over a month she had been unable to see Marj or even think about her without this awful sick feeling. They hadn't spoken to each other in all that time. And once they had been so close, running into each other's homes without knocking, walking to the grocery together, keeping each other's children while one went to town.

Oh, it was ridiculous that things had come to this stage. But I apologized, Janet reminded herself for the hundredth time. I fell all over myself trying to make amends. She's the one who refuses to speak.

A flock of blackbirds zoomed out of the blue and settled on the hedge for a moment's noisy chatter. Beautiful day! Janet sprang up and went inside, letting the screen door bang behind her.

THE living room was dark to eyes that had been staring into sun. She jerked at down on the light. It was chilly. The drapes and sank SUDDEN STORM davenport in a patch of sunshine. 

It was right here, she remembered miserably, that she had been comfortably dozing when Marj telephoned. "I've sent Benny home," Marj announced, her voice shrill. "I don't mean to make trouble, Janet, and I hope you won't be mad, but really! He and Martin were playing on the back porch and Benny brought Ricky in. He got to jumping around and knocked over the table where I keep my potted plants broke them to pieces. My azaleas, that I've just been nursing along."

"Oh, Marj," Janet moaned. They had bought their azaleas at the same time. "Marj, I'm just sick. I'll give you mine. They're not nearly so..."

"OH, they're just plants, but really." Benny appeared in the kitchen, inching along the sink, his small face twisted with silent weeping. He cast an unhappy glance at his mother and moved out of sight.

"Benny will certainly be punished," Janet promised hotly. "T'll be over in a few minutes, Marj." Janet hung up and advanced upon her son. "Benjamin Harding, I could just I've told you a dozen times to stay out of Appleby's house. And Ricky...." Benny stepped backward. "Mama," he pleaded, "I didn't take Ricky in there. I didn't. It was Martin who whistled him in. He had a ball he was makin' him jump after." His lower lip quivered.

Janet scowled, somewhat mollified. She was visualizing Marj Appleby scolding him, sending him home "Benny Harding, you take this dog of yours and get outa here. I'm gonna call up your Mama right now!" 

"OH, Benny," the boy sobbed against her, "Ricky broke all her nice plants, darling. You shouldn't have been in there at all, I've told you, Benny." Benny raised his face. "You said not to go in the house, Mama. Is the porch the house, is it, Mom?" Janet stood biting her lip. "I don't know," she answered absently. "I'm going over there now."

MA8J had been sweeping up dirt, and greeted Janet with an annoyed flourish of her arm. "Isn't this a fine mess?" Janet bent and began picking up pieces of pottery. "I'll replace all these pots," she said quietly, "and any of the plants I can." 

"Oh, indeed you won't. I have empty pots in the basement and the plants will all grow again. It's just that oh, they were doing so well." "I know." Janet waited. Then, "Benny said Martin let the dog in."

Marj stopped sweeping. "Martin," she called, "did you let that dog in here?" 

Martin came to the doorway, glanced defiantly at the women. He was sick. In his first year at school.

"Course not," he answered. "Ricky won't mind anybody but Benny."

Marj shrugged and went on with her sweeping. "Well, it doesn't matter who let him in, he did a fine job breaking up my plants."

Janet stared at her. It doesn't matter!" She wanted to cry. So it didn't matter that she had humiliated her son, broken his heart.

She turned abruptly. "I'll see that Benny doesn't come again. He does..."

"Oh, now, Janet," Marj broke in longheartedly. "There's no need for that. He and Martin play so well together."

"He disobeyed me by coming inside at all." Janet finished. "He'll never do it again." She closed the door firmly behind her as she went out.

It was Benny who reported the incident to his father. Janet thought Ben unusually harsh on the boy for his disobedience. But she was completely unprepared for his reproof of her later in the evening.

"The trouble with you, Janet," he told her, "is that you have confused the issue. The real cause of the fuss is Ricky, not Benny. It was the dog Marj wanted to get rid of and she had to send Benny home to do it. Your sympathy was all with Marj until you learned it was probably Martin who let the dog in. Then you imagined some great injustice had been done, when as a matter of fact, it was just as Marj said, it isn't who let him in, but the damage he did by being in. You've apologized for that and offered reparation, which was refused. That should be an end of the matter. There's nothing to be so upset about that I can see."

Janet glared. "Thank you so much, Judge Harding, for your esteemed opinion of the case," she said acidly and flung away from him.

Ben caught her hand, laughing. "Oh, now, honey, I know it isn't quite that simple. I wasn't trying to minimize your hurt, or Benny's. But Benny and Martin will have forgotten this thing by morning. It's you and Marj who must see what a small thing it is before it goes any further. Go see her tomorrow. Everything will be all right.

NEXT morning when Janet ran out to bring in the paper, Marj, as it often happened, was just leaving to drive her husband to work. She looked right at her. Janet was positive about that; but before she could speak, Marj had turned back quickly to close the door. Any other day Janet would have called out a cheery good morning, regardless. But this morning, self-consciously, she refrained. All day she fretted about the incident.

The next morning was almost an exact repetition. Marj made a great business of pulling on her gloves and closing the door, giving Janet ample time to pick up the paper and return inside. After that, Janet sent Benny for the paper. And that was the beginning of many awkward evasions that were making life miserable for her.
Such as last week when Benny had his sixth birthday, such an important anniversary to a little boy, and she hadn't given him a party simply because she hadn't the heart either to invite or exclude Martin, SUDDEN STORM his favorite playmate. For, of course, the little boys continued playing blissfully together, just as Ben had predicted. Ben! Janet started guiltily. He was due home for lunch this minute, and here she sat. From the kitchen window she watched as he turned in the driveway. Across the lot she saw Marj Appleby backing out of her garage. Of course. This was Friday. Marj always drove out to her mother's on this day. Often Janet and the children rode along. Wouldn't today be perfect for a drive in the country? Well, at least she could take care of those poor flowers. She had neglected them all these weeks because they were on the side of the house next to Appleby's!
"Hi, honey," Ben greeted her, coming in with Sharon on his shoulders and Benny clinging leach-like to his leg. He deposited his little daughter in her high chair and beamed proudly at Benny. "Well, Mama, I see you have a gardener to help keep up the place. Did you notice the front lawn?" Janet managed a tight little smile. Keeping up the place was often a touchy subject in the Harding household. "He worked real hard at it," she conceded. "But, oh, Ben, there's so much to be done here. The hedge needs trimming and my pansies...." She paused, then plunged on impulsively. "Ben, why don't we sell this place while prices are up? We could get by on a place with half this yard space, get a place closer in or farther out...." Her voice trailed off uncertainly as she became aware of Ben's openmouthed expression. "Sell?" he repeated. "Why, Janet, I thought you considered this place ideal. I know I don't have much time for the yard, but you said yourself we needed plenty of room so we could add to the house as our family increased." Janet bit her lip and bent quickly to tie Sharon's bib. Somehow she did not want to meet Ben's gaze.
The children did most of the talking at the table. As Ben finished his dessert he remarked casually, "I saw Marj leaving for her mother's. Doesn't she ask you to go along any more?" Janet gave him a quick glance. "I have a lot of work to do outside," she evaded. She felt an unaccountable resentment toward her husband. Was he being callous or caustic? She made no move to walk out to the car with him as she usually did and he did not come around the table to kiss her. At the door he turned. "I can ask Browning and Bates how much this place should bring." Then he added pointedly, "You know, you can move away from your neighborhood, but you can't move away from yourself."
Janet stared after him, feeling her face grow scarlet. She squeezed her eyes tightly over the hot tears and left the table abruptly so the children would not see. Almost mechanically she did the dishes, put Sharon down for her nap and went out to the pansy bed. She found no joy whatever in her work. The bursting enthusiasm of the morning that had thrust all thought of Marj Appleby from her mind had dissolved into a spirit of listless dejection. She felt all bogged down in a situation that would not better itself with the mere passage of time. Rather it had grown worse. She had spoken thoughtlessly at noon, and now Ben was hurt and displeased with her. His words still stung: You can't move away from yourself.
Oh, Ben, she pleaded in her heart, what am I going to do? She had waited too long to follow his suggestion. After all this time, could she go to the Appleby door and say, Marj, can't we forget this thing between us, can't we be friends again? No, she could not.
The sun disappeared. Janet glanced up and was mildly surprised to see that the western sky had grown murky. Rain again. She rose stiffly and went inside. Sharon needed covering. Crossing to her own room, Janet stood contemplating the little half-finished pinafore. She was in no mood for sewing. Restlessly she walked through the rooms. It was growing darker. An elusive brilliance darted in and out of the house.
Janet went to the back door and called to Benny, but her voice was lost in the explosion of thunder. She ran down the steps and around the house, her skirt billowing in a sudden gust of wind. Benny was tugging at the lawn mower. "Never mind, Mom," he vowed. "I can get it in the garage." "Well, hurry, dear. It's going to pour in a minute." She turned back. Then she stopped. "Oh!" she gasped, and darted across the lawn and through the opening in the hedge.
A splinter of lightning was hurled across the horizon. "The next will bring rain," Janet mumbled into Marj's crisp, whipping sheets as her fingers groped for the clothespins. Back in her own kitchen Janet set about preparing dinner. The children cluttered the floor with their blocks, the eaves of the house dripped monotonously after the downpour. But a song rose to Janet's lips as she contentedly pared potatoes at the sink. She felt refreshed and at peace with herself, a peace she had not known in a long while.
For Janet had reached a decision. It was a simple decision, one she had stubbornly rejected all these weeks. It had come to her after she had hurried with the last armful of clothes into Marj's kitchen and piled them with the others on the table. She brought a basket from the porch and pressed into it all the pieces that had tumbled to the floor. The sheets and towels she folded, making a neat stack upon the drainboard.
And as she worked, there in Marj Appleby's kitchen that was almost as familiar to her as her own, Janet experienced again the warmth and intimacy of their long friendship, remembering their little acts of helpfulness for each other, small services gladly given. The rain swept in gusts against the windowpanes and Janet glanced out of Marj's window across the way to her own home, the Harding home. In that moment it was almost as if she were Marj Appleby, and Janet knew with startling clarity that Marj was as deeply hurt and wretched over the whole affair as she herself was.
It was then Janet had made her decision.

She promised herself that the minute Marj returned, the very minute, mind you, she would run out and throw her arms about her Sudden Storm and tell her what a stubborn, stupid horrid person she had been. And Ben, dear Ben, she could hardly wait to tell him the same. She had raced home through the rain, her heart singing. Janet stopped humming and leaned far over her sink so she could watch the street, watch for Appleby's car. Why, there it was now, in their driveway. She heard a quick sound on the porch. The kitchen door burst open. Marj Appleby stood there, her eyes brimming. "Janet.... My clothes...." "Marj!" The paring knife dropped to the floor. "Oh, Marj," Janet cried as they rushed into each other's arms. They were both crying and trying to talk at the same time. Finally they had to stop and they stood back, laughing at themselves.

Later, as they were chatting beside the hedge, their children and Ricky romped about the lawn. Everything had the green, fragrant freshness that follows a sudden summer rain, and the sun's low rays filled the world with that special mellow glow. Janet heard a car on the gravel and turned eagerly, joyfully. Ben stepped from the car, his face reflecting the sun's golden light as he smiled at the two women across the lawn. "Ben," Janet called happily, waving her arms in a sweeping gesture that took in their house, the yard, the whole world, "Oh, Ben darling, isn't this a beautiful evening!"