Theology The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 11 "He Spake Many Things Unto Them In Parables" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 19, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, December 7, 1948 Objective: To create a desire to study and understand the gospel of the kingdom. Note: All quotations which are not followed by references are taken from the text Jesus the Christ.
During the early part of his ministry Jesus was popular. In fact, frequently the multitudes surrounding him were so large they would impede his progress. Because of these large crowds, he found it difficult at times to speak to the multitudes. He, therefore, devised the plan of going to the seashore and having his disciples provide a "small ship" which was kept in readiness for him and in which he sat down and spoke to the crowds. The boat would be anchored a short distance from the shore. It was during one of these meetings at the water's edge that he adopted the method of explaining his talks by using parables.
All students admit that the Savior was the Master Teacher of the world. In teaching, he followed no definite plan or method. He drew his examples from nature. He would see a sower at work in a field, a fox running across his path, a woman at a well, and each would provide him a story to illustrate his doctrine. The things of nature were his own creations and, of course, he knew how to use them to the best advantage.
"A Sower Went Forth to Sow"
The parable of the sower was probably the first parable used by the Savior in teaching. Everyone is familiar with this parable, but there are many who contend that it should, in reality, be called the parable of the soil. The story is as follows:
And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the way side, and the fowls came and devoured them up: Some fell upon stony places, where they had not much earth: and forthwith they sprung up, because they had no deepness of earth: And when the sun was up, they were scorched; and because they had no root, they withered away. And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprung up, and choked them: But others fell into good ground, and brought forth fruit, some an hundredfold, some sixtyfold, some thirtyfold.
Who hath ears to hear, let him hear (Matt. 13:4-9).
This method of teaching was a new one even to the disciples and was a departure from the Savior's earlier method. He, therefore, gave an interpretation to this parable. In brief, his interpretation was as follows:
Hear ye therefore the parable of the sower. When any one heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it not, then cometh the wicked one, and catcheth away that which was sown in his heart. This is he which received seed by the way side. But he that received the seed into stony places, the same is he that heareth the word, and anon with joy receiveth it; Yet hath he not root in himself, but dureth for a while: for when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, by and by he is offended. He also that received seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word; and the care of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and he becometh unfruitful. But he that received seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word, and understandeth it; which also beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some an hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty (Matt. 13:18-23).
Space will not permit the giving in full of all of the Savior's parables. The parable of the sower is given as an example. All of the parables of the New Testament may be studied with great profit. They are masterpieces of beautiful and effective literature. Only a few salient features will be given here.
Above all we should notice that the Savior had prepared well for his listeners. He was the sower. However, the parable would apply to any authorized servant of the Lord. "The seed is the word of God." He described four grades of soil. First, the compacted roof or highway made by people and hindered animals walking along or over it. It was natural for those near these highways even to cross fields which had been sown to grain. Second: the shallow soil, underlaid by rock, would sustain the sprouting plant only for a short time, after which it would wither and die. Third: the soil upon which weed seed had been sown. Ground otherwise capable of producing a crop would not yield because of the thickness of thistles and thorns. Fourth and last: the fertile soils which would yield an increase of thirty, sixty, or even an hundredfold.
It is interesting to note that the thorns which spring up in the poor grade of soil to choke the word of God are the care of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches." In good soil, the teacher sows the seeds of truth with anticipation and enthusiasm, knowing that there will be a harvest; perhaps not the expected harvest, but still thirtyfold if not an hundredfold" (Dr. Carl F. Eyring-Good Tidings to All People). Even Jesus was limited by the soil. Let teachers learn to prepare well the soil.
The Wheat and the Tares
The Lord, speaking to Joseph Smith in 1832, referred to this parable (D. & C. 86:4-7). It is suggested that the entire section be read.

The Mustard Seed
The application made in the parable of the mustard seed was entirely in terms, for the children of Israel had long looked forward to the coming in great glory of the Messiah. It startled them to hear its beginning compared with a mustard seed. However, the use of the mustard plant for food was common among the Jews. In Palestine the mustard plant attains a largeness in comparison with time than it does in the northerly climes. The lesson of the parable is relatively easy to learn. "... the seed of truth is vital, living, and capable of such development as to furnish spiritual food and shelter to all who come seeking." The size of the kingdom to be was not to be judged because it had a small beginning.

The Leaven
The parable of the leaven is quoted frequently. It is easily understood. Like the one last considered, it typifies the vitality and inherent power to grow. Yeast diffuses itself throughout a lifeless lump and changes the flour to a buoyant mass of dough. The truths of the gospel have the power within themselves when understood, to leaven the whole lump of humanity. Both the leaven in the flour and the spread of truth are sometimes slow in action but they work quietly and effectively.

A. Perry Picture Hofmann

While the leaven symbolizes truth, it must be remembered that the same thing, in different aspects, may be used to represent evil. Evil power may also permeate or "leaven" the whole lump.

The Hidden Treasure
The parable of the hidden treasure is recorded only by Matthew (13:44). The critic has often said that it was not honest for the finder to conceal the discovery of the treasure from the owner of the field. We may be assured that Jesus would not commend a dishonest act. The finder followed the Jewish law and all that was done was in accordance with the law of the day. Let us remember, also, that in the parabolic teaching of the day, little attention was given to what might be called the trappings, or outward forms. Certainly no one would, or did consider these trappings as an integral part of the story.

The happy man who found the treasure sold all he possessed and gave up everything gladly in order that he might purchase the field. The Master taught by this illustration that when once the treasure of the kingdom is found, the finder should lose no time nor shrink from any sacrifice needful to insure his title thereto.

The Pearl of Great Price
The parable of the pearl of great price should be carefully studied (Matt. 13:45-46). Of course, the pearl is used to represent great value. The merchant was seeking goodly pearls.
 

When he found one which excelled all others, he sacrificed all he had to obtain it; it was the pearl of great price. The pearl represents truth. When it is found, no price is too great for its possession. No one can truly become a citizen of the kingdom who is unwilling to surrender all for that citizenship. "The amount each person must pay depends on how much is 'his all.' That only is a sufficient price."

Latter-day Saints have a great heritage. Their pioneer forebears gave their all for the "pearl of great prices."

The Gospel Net
Dr. John A. Widtsoe, in his book The Gospel Net, gives pathos and meaning to the parable of the same name. The gospel of the kingdom has been preached in many lands. It has gathered into its folds good and bad people, mostly good. Often the sorting does not take place until the people have gathered in Zion, and it may not be completely done there. The great "Fisher of Men" will make the final sorting eventually. The just and the unjust will be separated, and each given a reward according to merit.

Questions and Suggestions for Discussion
1. State why you think Jesus was a great teacher. From what source did he draw his great examples to illustrate his teaching?
2. Relate the parable of the sower and tell why it is sometimes called the parable of the soil.
3. Describe the parable of the wheat and the tares. What was the lesson taught by it?
4. If a copy of the book The Gospel Net is available, have someone tell briefly the story of the conversion of the mother of Dr. John A. Widtsoe.