Literature—*literature of the Latter-day Saints
Literature of the Gospel Restoration
Lesson 3—Gospel Messages from the Book of Mormon
Elder Howard R. Driggs
For Tuesday, December 21, 1948
MAIN emphasis is given in the Book of Mormon to the "things of God." As a result, in every book of this scripture will be found awe-coined, principles of the gospel impressively and plainly stated, and prophetic literature of soul-stirring quality. All of these spiritual expressions are in accord with the Bible, whose divine lessons of life are amplified and clarified by this other "Book of Books."
Our readers may recall that in the study of the Bible from the literary viewpoint, we dealt with what Dr. Moulton calls Wisdom Literature. The book of "Proverbs" is made up of such literature—sayings of practical worth and uplift, pointing the way of righteousness. In the Book of Mormon, there is no such book. Bringing together the bits of wisdom, but similar gems of distinctive literary quality are to be found in many of the chapters of the book. Following are examples of these treasures of wisdom:
Yes, it is the love of God, which sheddeth itself abroad in the hearts of the children of men; wherefore, it is the most desirable above all things (1 Nephi 11:22).
The guilty taketh the truth to be hard; for it cutteth them to the very center (1 Nephi 16:2).
Adam fell that men might be; and men are that they might have joy (2 Nephi 2:25).
See that ye have faith, hope and charity, and then ye will always abound in good works (Alma 7:24).
This is my glory, that perhaps I may be an instrument in the hands of God to bring some soul to repentance; and is my joy (Alma 29:9).
Do ye suppose that ye cannot worship God save it be in your synagogues only?—do ye suppose that ye must not worship God only once in a week? (Alma 32:10).
Blessed are they who humble themselves without being compelled to be humble (Alma 32:16).
Fools mock, but they shall mourn; and my grace is sufficient for the meek (Ether 12:26).
For the eternal purposes of the Lord shall go on, until all his promises shall be fulfilled (Mormon 5:22).
I love little children with a perfect love, and they are all alike and partakers of salvation (Moroni 8:17).
We have a labor to perform whilst in this tabernacle of clay, that we may conquer the enemy of all righteousness (Mormon 9:6).
Many, as they read these gems of spiritual thought, will recall others they have found in the Book of Mormon. A search for such treasures will bring true riches. What may be found of appeal to each one who seeks, will be more deeply impressed if the choice saying is written and kept in a little book of reference. This practice is commended.
Vitality will also be given to this search for precious lines if the gems are studied in their settings. For example, after the soul-testings

For example: For all ye that are pure in heart, lift up your heads and receive the pleasing word of God, and feast upon his love; for ye may, if your minds are firm, forever (Jacob 3:2). Whatsoever is good cometh from God, and whatsoever is evil cometh from the devil (Alma 5:40). In the moving story that Alma the younger tells to his son Helaman, of his being redeemed from sin and turned to the joy of active goodness, we have an effective example of stirring literature. Writes Alma: And now, for three days and for three nights was I racked, even with the pains of a damned soul. And.... While I was harrowed up by the memory of my many sins, behold, I remembered also to have heard my father prophesy unto the people concerning the coming of one Jesus Christ, a Son of God, to atone for the sins of the world. Now, as my mind caught hold upon this thought, I cried within my heart: O Jesus, thou Son of God, have mercy on me, who am in the gall of bitterness, and am encircled about by the everlasting chains of death.... When I thought this, I could remember my pains no more.... Yea, my soul was filled with joy as exceeding as was my pain!: Yea, and from that time... I have labored without ceasing, that I might bring souls unto repentance; that I might bring them to taste of the exceeding joy of which I did taste; that they might also be born of God, and be filled with the Holy Ghost (Alma 36:16 ff.). Joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary + A name through three generations which has carried implicit confidence from the time of appointment by President Brigham Young as the first mortician in the Intermountain West. The cost is a matter of your own desire. Marguerite Taylor Beck Charles Asher Beck 125 No. Main Salt Lake City Autumn Quarter at a Greater University of Utah Make plans to enroll for the 1948-49 school year, a year during which the most extensive program in the history of the university will be offered. Opening Dates Sept. English and Achievement tests for freshman. Sept. Freshman assembly at Kingsbury Hall. Sept. Registration of freshman. Sept. 24-25 Registration of all others. Sept. Regular classwork begins. University of Utah Salt Lake City We Recommend the Following Music as Specially Suitable for Relief Society Choruses Beside Still Waters Hamblen 22 LG Bless This House Brahe AS Eye Hath Not Seen Gaul How Beautiful Upon the Mountains Harker 16 How Lovely Are Thy Liddle _.....How Lovely Are The Messengers Mendelssohn . En 12 In The Garden - Miles Invocation Moore King of Glory | XS <=}.20 King Of Love My Shepherd Is Shelley 0 16 Lord Is My Light Allitsen 2200S Open Our Eyes MacFarlane 18 Stranger of Galilee Morris) Teach Me To Pray Jewitt 2 5 Prices Quoted Are Net Postpaid Mail orders usually sent same day received Da FIRST OF ALL RELIABILITY 45-47 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah In this study one is reminded of the admonition from John (5:39): "search the scriptures." Certainly in the Book of Mormon there is a wealth of Wisdom Literature of practical, sterling worth. Added to this there are many places where the prophets of long ago days on our American continent made plain the divine principles of the gospel. As a striking example take the masterful interpretation of the resurrection and the restoration by the prophet Alma, as recorded in chapters 40 and 41 of the book of Alma, or from the same book in chapter 42, the exposition of justice and mercy. This represents really great religious literature. It is worth reading and re-reading; indeed one must read it often grow up with it, to grasp its deep import. A few concluding paragraphs from these splendid chapters will serve here to illustrate the profound thought, the high literary quality of the whole portrayal of divine truth: But God ceaseth not to be God, and mercy claimeth the penitent, and mercy cometh because of the atonement; and the atonement bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead; and the resurrection of the dead bringeth back men into the presence of God; and thus they are restored into his presence, to be judged according to their works, according to the law and justice. For behold, justice exerciseth all his demands, and also mercy claimeth all which is her own; and thus none but the truly penitent are saved... Therefore, O my son, whosoever will come may come and partake of the waters of life freely; and whosoever will not come the same is not compelled to come; but in the last day it shall be restored unto him according to his deeds. If he has desired to do evil, and has not repented in his days, behold, evil shall be done unto him, according to the restoration of God. Only a few hints of the richness of the gospel messages, with some suggestions of their distinctive literary quality, their sincerity and clarity in revealing saving truths could be given in this brief lesson. Brought forth with divine help by the Prophet of these latter days, The Book of Mormon contains a wealth of reference: Book of Mormon. Each member of the class should provide her/himself 1. What is one essential difference between the Presentation of Wisdom Literature, as represented by "Proverbs" and such literature in the Book of Mormon? B. In what respect is there a similarity? Give, for example, one of the proverbs and some like gem from college example of an exposition of basic pos pel principles found in the Book of Mormon. Fall Term Starts Sept. 9-13 a. II Nephi 26:23 to end of chapter; "b. Mosiah 4:21 to end of chapter; c. Alma 18:10-35; Helaman 13:1-3 Write the Registrar at Rexburg, Idaho, for a Catalogue 646 Title 2. Make a study in class of some good monograph. Take, if you will, one of the following on some other of your own selection Is Expanding to Four-Year Why Not Enroll at Ricks?