[Vol30 | June 1943 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: PREVIEWS 1943-44 LESSONS]

22
246
22
246
Totals
1,276
91,091
997
16,191
2,273
107,282
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology
Articles of Faith
Preview of Lessons for 1943-44
THE third and final year of the study of the Articles of Faith by James E. Talmage will be completed during the Relief Society educational year 1943-44. There will be eight lessons, the first to be presented the first Tuesday of October 1943, and the final lesson to be presented the first Tuesday of May 1944. The lessons follow the chapters in the book in consecutive order beginning with Chapter 17. The first five lessons deal with the Tenth Article of Faith, the sixth lesson with Article Eleven, the seventh with Article Twelve, and the eighth with Article Thirteen. The subjects by months are as follows:
* October The Dispersion of Israel
* November The Gathering of Israel
* December Zion
* January Christ's Reign on Earth
* February Regeneration and Resurrection
* March Religious Liberty and Toleration
* April Submission to Secular Authority
* May Practical Religion
The material to be printed each month in the Magazine will consist of three divisions: first, a condensation of each chapter; second, suggested class procedure for the teacher's use; and third, supplementary material quoted from statements of our latter-day prophets, the Presidents of the Church.
While it is believed that most Latter-day Saint families own copies of the Articles of Faith by Talmage, still in order that every class member may familiarize herself with the lesson, a condensation of each chapter with scriptural references will be printed in the Magazine each month as was done for the year 1942-43.
Reports frequently come to the General Board of the enjoyable theological lessons which are presented in the wards. It is the desire of the General Board, however, that not only should the lessons be enjoyable, but also that class members should actively participate in the lessons. One of the best ways to grow is by activity, and through class members participating in a lesson they will grow in knowledge. In order to suggest to the teacher various ways of procuring more active participation in her lesson, the second division of the Magazine material is provided. Under "Suggestions for Class Procedure," each
Page 429
430
month a different method will be suggested which is suited to the subject matter under discussion. These suggestions will be simple and any teacher who carefully chooses the class members to participate, with a view to their individual qualifications and needs, will find the suggestions helpful.
When class members are given assignments, it is desirable to allot them a definite length of time in which to present these assignments, impressing upon them the importance of staying within the time limit. Anyone who goes over her allotted time not only takes time away from someone else, but may interfere with the complete development of the lesson as planned by the class leader.
Class leaders are requested to urge class members to bring with them each theology day the standard works of the Church, and opportunity should be given class members to use these books. This will better familiarize them with the Scriptures, and will encourage home study and class participation. If desired, the class leader might check on the number of Church books brought to class each month by a show of hands, a checking list, or some other simple device.
The third division of the Maga-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE-JULY 1943
zine material, the "Supplementary Material," containing quotations from the writings and statements of the Presidents of our Church, will enrich the lessons. No supplementary material is presented for the first lesson in October on "The Dispersion of Israel."
Class leaders are advised against controversial discussions on matters which have not been revealed; for example, the whereabouts of The Lost Tribes of Israel. Such discussions waste time and are fruitless.
This three-year study of what the Church believes our Thirteen Articles of Faith should be of great benefit to the women of the Church. It should increase their knowledge of the Gospel, enrich their lives, and strengthen their testimonies. We are thankful for the theological teachers in the Relief Society who realize that they can teach nothing except they live what they teach; who appreciate the great responsibility which is theirs to lead their sisters along the path of life and salvation; and who by prayer, by study, and the inspiration of the Lord teach their sisters and encourage them, by participation, to grow in the knowledge of the Gospel. May the Lord bless such teachers in their work, and may they magnify their callings.
Lesson 17 The Dispersion of Israel
(Tuesday, October 5, 1943)
(This is the first of five chapters which deal with Article 10)
Article 10 "We believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten Tribes; * * *"
LESSON DEPARTMENT
431
Lesson Aim: To show how Israel lost its identity as a nation and its freedom as a people for rejecting God, and how the Lord overruled its great losses for the good of the whole world.
CONDENSATION OF CHAPTER 17, ARTICLES OF FAITH
(This condensation is placed in the Magazine in the hope that it will result in more class members familiarizing themselves with the lesson.)
Israel
The combined name and title, Israel, in the original sense of the word, expressed the thought of one who had succeeded in his supplication before the Lord: "soldier of God," "one who contends with God," "a prince of God," are among the common English equivalents. The name first appears in sacred writ as a title conferred upon Jacob, when he prevailed in his determination to secure a blessing from his heavenly visitor in the wilderness, receiving the promise; "Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed." (Gen. 32:28) But the name of the individual patriarch grew into the designation of a people, including the twelve tribes, who delighted in the title Israelites, or children of Israel.
At the death of Solomon, probably about 975 B. C., the kingdom was divided. The tribe of Judah and part of the tribe of Benjamin accepted Rehoboam, son and successor of Solomon, as their king; while the rest of the people, usually spoken of as the Ten Tribes, revolted against Rehoboam, choosing Jeroboam as their king. The Ten Tribes under Jeroboam retained the title Kingdom of Israel, while Rehoboam and his subjects were known as the Kingdom of Judah.
For about 250 years the two kingdoms maintained a separate existence; after which, about 721 B. C., the independent status of the kingdom of Israel was destroyed, and the people were brought into captivity by the Assyrians. The Kingdom of Judah was recognized for over a century longer, and then was brought to an end by the Babylonian captivity. For seventy years the people remained in subjection in accordance with the prophecy of Jeremiah. (Jer. 25:11-12; 29:10) Then the Lord softened the hearts of the ruling kings, and Cyrus, the Persian, permitted the Hebrew people to return to Judea and rebuild the Temple at Jerusalem. The people then commonly known as Hebrews or Jews, retained as the name of their nation the appellation "Israel," though they scarcely comprised two complete tribes out of the twelve. Used in a figurative manner to designate the covenant people who constituted the Church of Christ, (Rom. 9:6; Gal. 6:16) it is still employed in that sense. The Israelites, as first we meet them in history, were a united people.
The Dispersion of Israel Foretold
The dispersion of Israel was brought about by many stages, and
432
extended through millenniums. It was foreseen by the early prophets and the spiritual leaders of every generation.
Biblical Prophecies
Biblical prophecies predict blessings beyond the power of the unaided mind of man to conceive, conditioned only upon obedience to the laws of righteousness; and terrible, soul-harrowing, abject misfortune, including the scattering of the people among those who knew not God, if they departed from the path of rectitude. (Lev. 26:14-33; Deut. 28:25-64; I Kings 14:15; Isa. 5:1-7, 13; 10:3; 42:24-25; Jer. 7:12, 15; 9:11; 10:22; 34:17; Ezek. 20:23; 22:15; 34:6; 36:19; Amos 7:17; 9:9; Micah 3:12; Amos 9:9; Zech. 10:9)
Book of Mormon Predictions
The Book of Mormon contains many references to the dispersions that had already taken place, and to the continuation of the scattering. (I Nephi 10:11-13; 13:11-14; 14:14; 15:12-13; 19:12-14; 22:1-4, 7; II Nephi 6:8; 25:14-15; Jacob 5; 6; and many more.) Jesus Himself, after His resurrection, while ministering to the division of His flock on the western hemisphere, refers solemnly to the remnant who were to be "scattered forth upon the face of the earth because of their unbelief." (III Nephi 16:4)
The Fulfillment of These Prophecies
The sacred scriptures, as well as other writings for which the claim of direct inspiration is not asserted, record the literal fulfillment of proph-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE-JULY 1943
ecy in the desolation of the house of Israel. The dividing of the nation into separate kingdoms of Judah and Israel led to the downfall of both. As the people grew in their disregard for the laws of their fathers, their enemies were permitted to triumph over them. The sad fate of the kingdom of Israel had some effect in partially awakening among the people of Judah a sense of their own impending doom.
Since the destruction of Jerusalem and the final disruption of the Jewish autonomy, the Jews have been wanderers upon the face of the earth, a people without a country, a nation without a home.
The Lost Tribes
The resurrected Christ, while ministering among the Nephites on this hemisphere, specifically mentioned "the other tribes of the house of Israel, whom the Father hath led away out of the land" (III Nephi 15:15); and again He referred to them as "other sheep which are not of this land, neither of the land of Jerusalem; neither in any parts of that land round about whither I have been to minister" (III Nephi 16:1). Christ announced a commandment of the Father that He should reveal Himself to them. The present location of the Lost Tribes has not been revealed.
Note: Since the present location of the Lost Tribes has not been revealed, and since there is a wealth of knowledge that has been revealed, it is advisable that no discussions nor speculations be entered into concerning the present location of the Lost Tribes.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
433
SUGGESTIONS FOR CLASS PROCEDURE
Suggested Songs
Note: The class leader might confer with the ward president and the ward chorister and suggest that the following songs be used:
"Israel, Israel, God is Calling," Latter-day Saint Hymns, page 213.
"God Moves in a Mysterious Way," Relief Society Songs, page 21, Deseret Sunday School Songs, page 292, Latter-day Saint Hymns, No. 49.
"Scripture-finding" Committee
Select a few women to sit around a table in the front of the room, with Bibles, Books of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants. Let them find scriptural passages that may be called for in the development of the lesson and have them read these to the class as needed. Of course, every class member should be encouraged to bring her Bible, Book of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants and as the passages of scripture are read, she might turn to her own books and follow the reading. Time allotted for the lesson will not allow for too much scriptural reading; therefore, passages must be carefully selected.
Geography Report
Appoint one member to give a very short report of the geography embraced in the kingdoms of Judah and Israel, and of Assyria, Babylonia, and adjacent countries, to illustrate the captivities of Judah and Israel.
Note: Many Bibles have small maps. Some of the Seminaries, Sunday Schools, etc., have larger maps of the kingdoms referred to. A large map might be made of wrapping paper and colored crayons.
History Report
Appoint one member to give a 10-minute historical report covering the period from the division of the kingdom at the death of Solomon to the final dispersion of the children of Israel. (For this information see any good Bible dictionary.)
Chronological Table
Charts and tables are short cuts, and if used effectively they readily clarify facts, events, or historical happenings covering long periods of time. The chronological table of the Kings of Judah and Israel taken from A Concise Biblical Encyclopedia based on the Cambridge Companion to the Bible, will be helpful in the preparation of this lesson and is found in the back of the Bible used by most Latter-day Saint missionaries.
Pronunciation Guide
Ahijah a-hi'ja Cyrus si'rus Ephraim e'fra-im Euphrates u-fra'tez Hezekiah hez'e-ki'ah Israel is'ra-el Jeroboam jer-o-bo'am Josephus jo-se'fus Josiah jo-si'a Messianic mes'i-an'ik Nebuchadnezzar neb'u-kad-nez'ar Rehoboam re-ho-bo'am Sargon sar'gon, sar'go Sennacherib se-nak'er-ib Shalmanezer shal'man-e'zer Titus ti'tus Vespasian ves-pa'zhi-an Zedekiah zed-e-ki'a Zenos ze'nos