[Vol30 | June 1943 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science Preview Statesmen]

Social Science
What "America" Means
Preview of Lessons for 1943-44
THE lessons in Social Science for 1943-44, will be a continuation of the subject studied during 1942-43; namely, "What 'America' Means." Seven lessons have been given, and seven more are to follow. With the completion of these lessons, the subject will be brought to a conclusion.
There has never been a time in the history of our nation when it was more important to understand America and the development of the American way of life based upon Christian principles, and to recognize our duties and responsibilities as citizens, than it is today. These are the primary purposes of this course.
Deep religious ideals permeated the people who first settled America. Generally, they were people who had been persecuted in the Old World. When they came together to form this government, they agreed that religious liberty, the right to worship God according to one's own conscience, should be a fundamental right of every citizen. This right was one of the noblest gifts to mankind in history.
Another great conception of the founders of our nation was that universal education should be encouraged. Whereas, in old countries, the common people had been kept in a state of subjection, in America all should be free to work and earn and learn. All had a right to take part in government. Freedom of opportunity was for all.
But now, in the great war that is sweeping over the earth, all our ideals, our free way of life, and our national existence are at stake. Our task is to fight against and overcome the evil influences which imperil us. Light must dispel darkness.
No lesson is scheduled for the month of December as the General Board does not require that a meeting be held on Tuesday, December 28, 1943.
The titles of the seven social science lessons for 1943-44, together with objectives and a brief summary of each lesson, follows:
Lessons 8 and 9. American Statesmen
The objectives of lessons 8 and 9 are the same; namely, to show the place that statesmen hold in our national life and the part they play in preserving American ideals and advancing civilization in this country.
Lesson 8 deals with the following statesmen: George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, and Alexander Hamilton.
Lesson 9 gives a brief account of the activities of John Marshall, Henry Clay, John C. Calhoun, Daniel Webster, Abraham Lincoln.
Summary: America has produced many outstanding and noble statesmen, men who have devoted their lives to the preservation of our government and the principles upon which it is based. These men accepted Christian ideals and tried to put them into practice.
Lesson 10. The Sacredness of American Citizenship
Objective: To show that the rights we enjoy as American citizens should be regarded as sacred opportunities and as a power, and that right should be the guide to all Americans in the exercise of their citizenship.
Summary: The rights conferred upon our citizens by the government should be regarded as sacred. We have freedom of worship, freedom of education, and freedom to work. These are all privileges that have been won in the past, and should be preserved.
Lesson 11. Our American Culture
Objective: To show that although America is a young nation, as compared with the countries of the Old World, she is already one of the leading nations in culture.
Summary: The forces that have made America a land of culture have been carefully worked out. Culture is a result of a richness of spiritual life, and is shown in the music, sculpture, architecture, and literature, and in the homelife of a people. Like the true spirit of religion, culture is expressed in fine manners and customs, and kindliness toward one's fellow man. It is a reflection of the inner life of man his mind and spirit.
Lesson 12. Standards of Success
Objective: To show that America is a religious nation, and that in America standards of success are measured by Christian principles.
Summary: The American people have accomplished great and lasting things for the development and upbuilding of their country. They hold spiritual life above the material, and they are moved by high purposes; man must know his ideal worth and lift himself to it.
Lesson 13. What America Means to Me
Objective: To show the material and spiritual forces that have made America the great nation that it is today.
Summary: To survey this country is to come to the conclusion that it is a land "choice above all other lands." It has all the requirements to make human life happy and prosperous.
Lesson 14. The Need of the Hour
Objective: To show that the need of the hour is to strengthen the spiritual forces in America and to increase faith in God.
Summary: At the present time all the evil forces in the world seem to be combined to destroy the freedom and opportunity which America has made great. But we should be strong and full of courage; we are fighting for a righteous cause.
The textbook recommended by the  , Utah. The price is $1 postpaid.
The following reference books, which may be found in city and school libraries, will be found helpful in the preparation of particular subjects.
Adams, James Truslow, The March of Democracy Becker, C. L., Beginnings of the American People Earle, A. M., Home Life in Colonial Days Fisher, S. G., Struggle for American Independence Green, E. B., Foundation of American Nationality Sparks, E. E., Expansion of the American People Van Metre, T. W., Economic History of the United States Wertenbaker, T. J., The First Americans Wilder, Marshall, The United States in the Making Wilson, Woodrow, Division and Reunion
Lesson 8 American Statesmen
(Tuesday, October 26, 1943)
FROM the earliest times to the present, the United States has had a rich and varied political history. Every one of the thirteen original colonies had its leaders in political and civic life, and in reading about them one recalls the words of Carlyle that "history is recorded in the lives of great men."
From the advent of the English settlers to the formation of our Government, men of highest integrity and noble motives gave the people fine concepts of democratic government. It was a group of statesmen of the most valorous character who signed the Declaration of Independence. Fifty-five men in all represented the thirteen colonies, most of whom were highly educated and well qualified to perform the work of their day. They were men who foresaw the beginning of a new nation, "conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal."
It has been well said by one of the first historians of the men who drafted the noble document:
No nation can dwell with more just satisfaction upon its annals, than the American people. The emigrants who settled this country were illustrious men; distinguished for their piety, wisdom, energy, and fortitude. No less illustrious were their descendants who served as the guides and counselors of the colonies, or who fought their battles during the Revolutionary struggle. No one who admits the intervention of a special providence in the affairs of nations, can hesitate to believe that the statesmen of the Revolution were raised up by the God of Heaven for the important and definite purpose of achieving the independence of America.
Among the group who signed the Declaration of Independence were Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Samuel Adams, Robert Morris, Roger Sherman, and Edward Rutledge, all of whom were representative of the rich political thought of their day. They were the product and the highest promise of American life and American opportunity.
There is one character whom we wish to consider briefly, who was not of the group of which we have been speaking, but he caught the spirit of the colonial cause. We refer to the venerable William Pitt, Earl of Chatham. From the beginning of the opposition of America, Pitt had sensed the justice of the cause of the Colonists, and on many occasions he voiced his opposition to the laws passed by Parliament to govern the commerce and trade with America; and when troops were sent to America to enforce what the Colonists declared unjust laws, Pitt arose in the House of Parliament and said:
What foundation have we for our claims over America? What is our right to persist in such cruel and vindictive measures against that loyal and respectable people? My lords, deeply impressed with the importance of taking some healing measures at this most alarming, distracted state of our affairs, though bowed down with a cruel disease, I have crawled to this House to give you my best counsel and experience; and my advice is to beseech His Majesty to withdraw his troops from America. It will convince America that you mean to try her cause in the spirit, and by the laws of freedom and free inquiry, and not by codes of blood.
To such a policy, the ministry of England was not prepared to listen, but Pitt's plea shows that England was divided in her attitude toward the American Colonists, something that not all Americans know.
It was also a most extraordinary body of men that gathered together in 1787 to frame the Constitution of the United States. Never did such a group of powerful and brilliant intellects, men trained by experience, assemble for so great an undertaking as the framing of a constitution for a nation. And the best proof of the success which attended their efforts is to be found in the fact that the constitution which they framed for a nation of three million people has been found now fit for a hundred and fifty millions. Both major parties have vied in their admiration of the Constitution of the United States, for both have insisted that the venerable instrument, if correctly interpreted, supported their own tenets.
BENJAMIN FRANKLIN was one of the committee of five appointed by the Second Continental Congress to draft the Declaration of Independence. His great work was to create in America a feeling of unity. Going to France as a representative of the colonial government, he was instrumental in making a treaty with that country which was favorable to our Government. Although over seventy years of age, he was popular in French society, and his simple ways and quaint manners won for him many friends. Oxford University made him a Doctor of Laws, and he was soon a favorite all over Europe for his learning, statesmanship, discoveries of science, and practical inventions. A member of the Convention which formed the Constitution of the United States, it was Franklin who made the motion that the meetings of the Convention be opened every day with prayer. "I have lived a long time," said he, "and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth, that God governs in the affairs of men." Franklin published one of the first newspapers in America as well as the famous "Poor Richard's Almanack." He founded the American Philosophical Society and the Philadelphia Public Library. His autobiography is one of the most noted classics of American literature.
GEORGE WASHINGTON was not only a soldier, the greatest of his day, but he was one of the outstanding statesmen of all time. He was in Boston at the head of the colonial army when the Declaration of Independence was drafted. In 1787 the Constitutional Convention met at Philadelphia, and Washington was made chairman of the assembly. With the adoption of the Constitution, he was chosen our first President. His cabinet was made up of the best men of the country, and in all the work of planning and forming the new government, of settling the policies of the Republic both at home and abroad, Washington was always equal to his problems. During his administration, a flood of infidelity swept over the United States. Keenly alive to its dangers, he dwelt in his Farewell Address on the fact that it was on religion and morality that our Government was founded. Whether at home or abroad, he was always careful of his personal appearance, and his manners were gracious and gentle. "His faith in God was his greatest armour," says one historian, "and this was the salvation of his country." Washington's record as one of the greatest military leaders of the world made him "first in war." His unique position as the one man above all others who aided our country to frame and adopt the Constitution, and his great service as the first President of the United States, made him "first in peace." It was his supreme faith in God for he was known as the "Christian Statesman" which made him "first in the hearts of his countrymen." John Marshall, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States wrote in his biography of Washington, these words: "Without making ostentatious professions of religion, he (Washington) was a sincere believer in the Christian faith and a truly devout man." In Washington's First Inaugural Address, he said: "No people can be bound to acknowledge and adore the Invisible Hand which conducts the affairs of men more than the people of the United States. Every step by which they have advanced to the character of an independent nation seems to have been distinguished by some token of providential agency."
VERY few men have left a deeper impression upon our nation and its government than Thomas Jefferson. One of the foremost men in American politics, he was responsible for writing the Declaration of Independence, and during two terms he was President of the United States. Although he never made a formal speech in his life, Jefferson was ranked as the greatest political leader of his day. A large part of his public work was done with the pen. During the American Revolution, he was busy at the head of civil affairs in his native state, Virginia. He followed Patrick Henry as governor of his state and succeeded Benjamin Franklin as American minister to Paris. During his first administration as President of the United States, he made the famous Louisiana Purchase, which extended the United States from the Mississippi River to the Rocky Mountains. Jefferson's political life closed in 1809, and in his quiet home at Monticello, Virginia, he spent his days in establishing the University of Virginia, at Charlottesville. Jefferson was Secretary of State in the cabinet of President Washington, and Alexander Hamilton was the Secretary of the Treasury. Both of these men held extremely opposite views as to government. Hamilton was a Federalist and held to the idea of a strong central government; while Jefferson was opposed to slavery and was an ardent advocate of State Rights. His party was called the Republican, which afterward became the Democratic Party. He held that the federal power should be limited as much as possible. He placed his confidence in the voice of the people. Monticello, now preserved as a national memorial, was Jefferson's home for over fifty years. Here on a part of his large estate, he built his unusual and fascinating house from his own design. Jefferson died on July 4, 1826, just fifty years after the signing of the Declaration of American Independence. It is interesting to note that at this writing, the beautiful memorial to Jefferson's memory, located on the banks of the Potomac River, has been fittingly dedicated in the city of Washington.
ANOTHER great statesman of the Revolutionary period was Alexander Hamilton, who was Secretary of the Treasury in Washington's cabinet. "Next to George Washington," said Chief Justice Marshall, "there has been no one to whom our Republic owes more." Born in the West Indies, his father was a Scotchman and his mother a beautiful French Huguenot. He came to New York in 1772, which was ever after his home. He was a great reader of Plutarch and Pope and many other great authors. A graduate of King's College, now Columbia University, he fought in the American Revolution, and took part in drafting the Constitution of the United States. His most important work was in the country's finances, and he was instrumental in the establishment of the Bank of the United States. He was the leader of the Federal Party, which stood for a strong central government over and above the states. More than any other statesman, Hamilton's plans for the money matters of the country restored the public credit, and trade and prosperity grew fast. He stood for a high protective tariff and encouraged home manufacture. He withdrew from the service of his country when only thirty years of age, and was killed in a duel with Aaron Burr on July 12, 1804.
IN thinking of the great men who founded this Republic and gave it the Constitution of the United States, we sense deeply the words of Sir Francis Drake, when he said:
Men pass away, but people abide. See that ye hold fast the heritage we leave you. Yea and teach your children its value, that never in the coming centuries their hearts may fail them or their hands grow weak. Hitherto, we have been too much afraid. Henceforth, we will fear only God.
Any one-volume history of the United States will be helpful as a reference.
Questions and Study Suggestions
1. Why did the American colonists go to war with England in 1775?
2. Who were some of the men who took part in that struggle?
3. What was the Declaration of Independence? Who were some of the men who took part in drafting it?
4. Who were some of the great statesmen of that period? By referring to any good American history, prepare something about the lives of: Washington, Hamilton, Jefferson, Samuel Adams, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin.
5. Give more extensive study to one character, and enumerate characteristics he possessed which you would desire to emulate.