[Vol30 | June 1943 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Preview 440 Story]

JUNE-JULY 1943 Lesson | The Bible Story (Tuesday, October 19, 1943) [XN the opening chapter of Genesis will be found the "Story of Creation." Recast slightly from the chapter and verse arrangement in which it commonly appears, part of this rare story reads: In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. And the earth was without form and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. And God said, Let there be light: and there was light. And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness. And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And the evening and the morning were the first day. And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters. And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament: and it was so. And God called the firmament Heaven. And the evening and morning were the second day. And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together in one place, and let the dry land appear; and it was so. And God called the dry land earth; and the gathering together of the waters he called seas: and God saw that it was good. And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding seed which was in itself, after its kind: and God saw that it was good. And the evening and the morning were the third day. Step by step the "Story of Creation" goes forward in natural sequence the placing of lights in the heavens to divide the day from the night, to set the seasons and the years, and "to give light upon the earth"  the creating of fish and fowl and animal life; then  God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness.... So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them. And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth and subdue it; and have dominion over the fish of the sea and the fowl of the air and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.... And the evening and the morning were the sixth day. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them, and on the seventh day God ended the work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all the work he had made. And God blessed the seventh day and hallowed it.... Certain literary qualities which mark this beginning story of the Bible are characteristic of Biblical stories. First, it moves with simple directness, step by step in an upclimb to the conclusion. Setond, it is clear and concrete in language, with vivid words and phrases at times to light the story. Observe, for instance, "The earth was without form and void"  "darkness was upon the face of the deep" "'and God blessed the seventh day and hallowed it." Third, its sentences are musical. Read them aloud thoughtfully; they move with natural cadence. "Echo lines," such as "And the evening and the morning were the first day," help not only to bind the parts of the story together, but add a rhythmic charm. LESSON DEPARTMENT Fourth, spiritual life-lessons are impressed with such stirring, never-tobe-forgotten expressions as: 'God said, Let there be light: and there was light" "God created man in his own image, and in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them." Fifth, Bible stories do not yield all their riches with one reading. Like other great classic stories, they must be reread. While they are so simple in language and form that even a little child can gain something from hearing them, still one must grow up with these stories to catch their inner meaning, their full spiritual significance. One caution here: Do not expect every Bible story to bring the glow of interest that may come from the "Story of Creation," or from some other that you have learned to love. Certain of these stories are difficult even for grownups to understand and appreciate. President Joseph F. Smith once voiced the thought that our Gospel unfolds itself to the seeking soul gradually; let us enjoy those things in it we can appreciate, and God will open further truth for us. This fine advice applies helpfully to our study of the stories of the Bible. Now shall we turn to another of these stories, one which has brought | delight to young and old for ages  the "Story of Joseph and His Brethren?" Here 'is a classic tale from the Bible that has won the highest of praise from eminent writers. Mark Twain once expressed his appreciation with words that said in effect that the story of Joseph is one of the greatest short stories ever written. By reading carefully this masterpiece in story writing, we shall discover in it other classic qualities. Like 445 the "Story of Creation," it moves forward step by step with rising interest. Observe, for example, how each sentence carries on the story from its beginning (Genesis 37:3)  Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age: and he made him a coat of many colors. And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him and could not speak peaceably unto him. And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it to his brethren: and they hated him yet the more. And he said unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed: For, behold, we were binding sheaves in a field, and, lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheaves stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf. And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? Or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams and for his words. Here, with a few swift strokes we have the basis of the plot round which the story is developed. Jealousy and envy, provoked by an old man's devotion to a son sent to cheer his declining years, bring the selling of the boy into slavery, and the deception that follows to explain away the lad's disappearance. Jacob's grief is assuaged somewhat by his devotion to an even younger son, Benjamin all of which later adds to the developing drama of family life in Old Canaan. Note, as you read the story, the local color: shepherds tending their flocks in the hills; the dangers from wild beasts; a wandering band of Ishmaelites following the old trail that still leads through Canaan into Egypt; a coat of many colors, suggestive of the rich clothing of the 446 orient; "camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh." Note, too, as you did in the "Story of Creation," the choice words and other life-giving expressions that add vividness; for example, "conspired against him"; "cast him into this pit"; "stript Joesph out of his coat"; "And Jacob rent his clothes." __ Omitting Chapter 38, which is not part of the story of Joseph, continue with Chapter 39, which portrays his testing experiences in the home of Potipher. Lessons of spiritual import are concretely impressed in the youth's resistance to temptation, his clean and prayerful living. Finally comes his triumphal rise from prison to high office in the kingdom. Here is the beginning of the fulfillment of his boyhood dream. From the story-telling viewpoint, it is one of the "literary surprises" that adds interest. Within these recent testing years, many folk have turned instinctively to the story of Joseph for an example of inspired statesmanship in providing for the welfare of a nation. Our own people will find in it something to brace their own faith in our leaders today. To turn again to the story: One further point to remember is the upclimb of interest in the developing tale. This climatic effect is clearly illustrated in the treatment by Joseph of his brethren. They are given the grain for which they came; and strangely, on returning home, they find the money they paid in their sacks. One admonition also is given: They must not return for more unless they bring with them their youngest brother Benjamin. After- -wards, when famine again threatens, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 JUNE-JULY 1943 they persuade their father to let Benjamin go with them. Joseph, though deeply affected at the meeting with his own young brother, still withholds revealing himself. And while he entertains his brethren, he commands the steward of his house, saying (Genesis 44:1-13)  Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put every man's money in his sack's mouth. And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack's mouth of the youngest, and his corn money. And he did according to the word Joseph had spoken. As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their asses. And when they were gone out of the city, and not yet far off, Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men; and when thou dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good? Is not this it in which my lord drinketh, and whereby indeed he divineth? Ye have done evil in so doing. And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these same words. And they said unto him, Wherefore saith my lord these words? God forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing: Behold, the money, which we found in our sacks' mouths, we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how then should we steal out of thy lord's house silver or gold? With whomsoever of thy servants it be found, both let him die, and we also will be my lord's bondmen. And he said, Now also let it be according unto your words: he with whom it is found shall be my servant; and ye shall be blameless. Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground, and opened every man his sack. And he searched, and began at the eldest, and left at the youngest: and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his ass, and returned to the city. Following this dramatic incident, related with such simple yet telling LESSON DEPARTMENT effect, comes the revealing of Joseph to his brethren. It is a fulfillment of the dreams God gave him as visions in his boyhood. There are tears of joy and forgiveness at this revelation of God's working in mysterious ways his wonders to perform. Later comes the "happy ending" of a great story when the father is reunited with nis long-lost son, and Israel is established in a land of peace and plenty until another crisis arises. Suggestions for Discussion and Activities 1. Give in their order (without referring to your text) the six steps of creation as revealed in the first chapter of Genesis. What is the "echo line" that helps to impress these steps and which gives them unity? 2. Read aloud thoughtfully the first chapter and first three verses of the second chapter of Genesis, listening to the smoothly flowing language with which the "Story of Creation" is unfolded. What composer caught the spirit of this story and its music, and created a great oratorio based on it? 3. What eminent English poet took from the "Story of Creation" in Genesis the theme for one of the greatest of epics? Name the epic. 4. Review briefly the "Story of Joseph" from these literary viewpoints: (a) its central plot; (b) outstanding characters; (c) story movement; (d) language vividness; (e) local color (deal 447 here with the people and customs and life activities portrayed). What is one impressive life lesson you find concretely presented in the "Story of Joseph"? What eminent author has in recent years paid rare tribute to this Bible story by using rich matetials suggested by it in a novel of challenging interest? 5. What are some of the characteristics of the Bible story? Name two or more, and be prepared to illustrate the characteristics named with references from any one of the tollowing stories, or from some other Bible story which is a favorite with you: "Story of the Offering of Isaac'' (Genesis 22); "Story of the Wooing of Rebekah" (Genesis 24); "Story of the Birth and Saving of Moses' | E: xodus, Chapters 1 and 2; "Story of the Spies and Woman of Jericho" (Joshua 2); "Story of the Birth of Samuel" (I Samuel, Chapter 1); "Story of Solomon and the Two Mothiers" (I Kings 3:16-28); "Story of Elijah and the Widow's Son" (I Kings, Chapter 17); "Story of Daniel and the King's Meat" (Daniel, Chapter 1). In reading the Bible, let its stories tell themselves. If you share them with your children or others, through voicing their musical language, do it simply, thoughtfully, without affectation. Let the story and the life lessons sing themselves into your soul. Such reading will bring not mere entertainment, but recreation. Note: "The Creation" was considered in Lesson 5 of the 1942-43 literature course, and is considered once more to emphasize its narrative values.