[Vol30 | June 1943 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Home Topics Preview 436 Management]
stitute, 1941. This book was recommended for use in connection with Home Topics for 1942-43. Copies are still available at the Deseret Book Store, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City; regular price $2.50; price to Relief Society workers $2 postpaid.
Helpful bulletins and pamphlets may be obtained by writing to state agricultural colleges, county home demonstration agents, or to the Supt. of Documents, Washington, D. C. For example, the Utah State Agricultural College Extension Service has a bulletin entitled "Practical and Speedy Cleaning Methods" by Effie S. Barrows, which is very helpful. The Relief Society Magazine, other periodicals, and the daily press frequently have worth-while suggestions. Advertisements in national magazines sometimes contain good suggestions.
Lesson 1 Home Management
For optional use on Tuesday, October 12, 1943
THESE lessons are written for homemakers. If some suggestions can be made which will increase the interest of homemakers in the management of their homes, helping them to understand their housekeeping problems more clearly and meet them more effectively, the lessons will have served their purpose.
It has often been stated that the greatness of America lies not in the granaries filled with corn and wheat, nor in the railroads stretching across the continent, nor in the mighty armies now growing stronger every day. The greatness of America lies in the American home and the family.
President Roosevelt said when we entered the war that we would have to work harder and longer than we had ever done before. This has certainly proved true. Today we have before us such serious problems as a war to win, an army to feed, and a peace to plan. In view of these problems each one of us wants to do the best possible job in adjusting her work to meet wartime conditions.
Can women plan for more efficiency in their homework in order to make time for added duties? Through better management and cooperation this is possible. If we use the head more and the feet less that is, if we better organize our work and time we will make the time for other things.
Let's use the Army as an example. Every member of a company has his own housekeeping responsibilities. A schedule is made and followed precisely. The time element is important in each job: making beds on time, cleaning up the rooms, putting away clothing, everything in ship-shape order and on time. No time nor motion is wasted in performing these everyday routine duties. If we would follow this example, our homes would be more efficient and restful, and we would have more time for activities outside the home and more leisure time. In planning our housework we should arrange for each member of the family to have a job and some definite responsibility in the home, whether it be planning the meals or washing the dishes. We should also make a work schedule and assign each household task to a particular day and even the hour of the day when it could be done most quickly and conveniently. The benefits of such a schedule are many: 1. It relieves the uncertainty and nervous strain of never knowing when you'll get things done. 2. It allows more things to be done in a given length of time. 3. It allows planning for leisure pleasures with the comfortable feeling that your housework need not be neglected. 4. It allows planning the work of a parttime helper so that endless repetition of orders is avoided and better help for the money spent is obtained. When a schedule has been followed 439 until it becomes second nature, you run your house it does not run you. How shall we go about making a schedule? _ First write down the jobs that need to be done every day. Next write down the tasks that need to be done on a particular day of the week. Then make a simple weekly chart and assign each job to the day and hour when it can be done most conveniently. (See America's Housekeeping Book, pp. 10, 12.) No two homes are exactly alike, and different conditions affect the work schedule. If there is a small baby, the household schedule must be built around the baby's schedule. Very often little time is left for the countless household tasks, especially if no help is employed; but after all, baby's well-being is of far more importance than any phase of housekeeping, and if some housework has to be neglected or done less thoroughly, this state of affairs should be accepted philosophically. Young children, children of school age, also make it necessary for special adjustments in work schedules. After trying to follow a schedule for a week or more, it is time to check up. Ifa day seems crowded so that it is difficult to do all the work scheduled for that day, there may be a remedy. Here are a few questions that may get to the root of the trouble: 1. Have you tried to do too much in one day? If so, move one or two tasks to less crowded days. 2. Do you know the one best way to accomplish a given task? 3. Do you collect all the material, ingredients, or pieces of equipment that you need for a specific job before you begin? (Example: baking bread, 440 making a cake.) time and steps. 4. Are your housekeeping tools and materials efficient, easy to use, and in good condition? Poor tools slow down work. For example: (a) Is your sink too high or too low for comfort? (b) Is your cleaning equipment right for the jobs to be done? (c) Is your vacuum cleaner or carpet sweeper kept emptied and ready for use? (d) Are your knives sharp? Very important. ) (e) Is the place where the job is to be done, arranged conveniently? (f) Is your kitchen equipment stored at the place where it is used? (g) Is the lighting adequate for the work? (This is very important. ) Are beds set away from the wall so you can make them easily? (i) Is your cleaning closet orderly and well arranged? Can you get things in and out easily? (j) Do you take too long to do a specific job? (Keep a record of the time it takes to do ordinary jobs like dishwashing and making beds.) (k) Are your standards of housekeeping too high? This always saves (This is 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 JUNE-JULY 1943 Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Enumerate the values accruing to the housewife from following a work schedule. 2. Relate ways of performing some specific everyday household task that will save time and energy. (Perhaps a demonstration might be arranged.) 3. When would you consider housekeeping standards too high? 4. How may kitchen equipment, such as tables, stoves, sink, refrigerator, etc., be best grouped to save the time and energy of the housewife? (See Relief Society Magazine, October 1940, "Highlights In Kitchen Planning," Lalene H. Hart, p. 676.) 5. What devices may be employed to adjust working surfaces that are too high? Too low? (See Relief Society Magazine, October 1940, "Highlights In Kitchen Planning," Lalene H. Hart, p. 679.) 6. Suggest different ways of procuring family cooperation in doing household tasks. Reference America's Housekeeping Book, Chapter I, p- 9 Literature The Bible as Literature Preview of Lessons for 1943-44 PRIME purpose of this course is to give those who follow it an encouraging opportunity to get closer to the Bible. Most folk look upon this Book of Books and rightly so as a sacred volume. "So far as it is translated correctly," it is the word of God. It presents His word, however, in varied impressive forms. Sometimes the divine message is given through straight historical record; at times it comes with directness through commandments; again its spirit is radiated through a beautiful lyric, an ode, a rhapsody; often it is portrayed through an intriguing story LESSON DEPARTMENT or drama or ballad; at other times sublime truths are presented through essays and philosophical discussion; or they may flame forth in divine prophecy. All these forms of literature are to be found in the Bible. First, we shall discover them deftly inwoven in the historical books that portray the story of the chosen people. Literature here is used to illuminate and humanize history. Second, included in the great Book of Books are various books, each devoted to a distinctive type of literature. Thus we have wise sayings in the Proverbs; the songs of Israel in the Psalms; a challenging drama of righteousness in Job; the vision of Zion redeemed in Isaiah. Yet with all this variety of expression, the widely different books and selections that make our Bible are each and all in consonance and harmony with the spirit of the whole. This remarkable unity that magnetizes the varied parts is due to the source of its inspiration. 'Through all the centuries that this sacred volume was being assembled, taught, and finally translated into the tongues of the common folk for their guidance and uplift, one thought was dominant  scribes, rabbis, early Christian fathers and _ translators alike were intent on preserving the word of God. And preserve it they did with remarkable fidelity. 'That was their master service for mankind. In this devotion to a great central ideal, they would seem to have given little heed to literary forms in which the sacred writ was expressed. God's word and will Gospel truth with these inspired leaders was of first concern. Evidence of this truth comes in the form of the Bible as 441 given to us by the translators. Our King James Translation, for example, is cast into a series of chapters, which in turn are broken up into socalled verses. These bits of the sacred writ were intended, we are told, as "texts for comment" or for sermons. Not until years after these first translations were made did students of the Bible become concerned with the literary forms of the rare poems, stories, dramas, orations, etc., in the succession of chapters. More recently, under the inspirational leadership of such leaders as the great English scholar, Dr. Richard Green Moulton, who gave us the Modern Reader's Bible, this Biblical literature has been lifted into the clear by being recast into forms that reveal its artistry and enhance its living messages of truth. Studied in the light of the Gospel, this literature will clarify and enrich our knowledge of the Scriptures. It will bring us closer to the inner spirit and true meaning of the Bible. Such is the intent of the lessons of this course. Plainly, it is not possible in a threeyear course of study of Bible literature, such as is being taught in Relief Society, to do much more than open up this rich field of literature. Our purpose, however, will be well served, if those who participate in this work are lured into reading the Bible with new interest and appreciation, valuing it more fully as a literary masterpiece and as the sacred record of the word of God to mankind. An even richer result will come if our mothers respond to the course by sharing its gems of literature through reading them aloud to their children. Herein is a means of sweet companionship with things divine. 'The outline of the eight study units planned for the educational year 1943-44 follows: 1. The Bible Story Concrete study of typical stories from the Bible from a literary viewpoint; their artistry as revealed in plot, characters, local color, language, music and other qualities that mark great literature. Application through story-reading and _ story-telling activities. 2. The Bible Epic Bible stories may be studied individually or in sequence. Frequently, several of these stories, taken together, portray some period of history, such as the stories of the Creation, the Deluge, the Patriarchs, the Exodus. A central purpose of this study is to present such an epic that centering in David the Warrior, King of Israel. Individual stories woven into this epic will be given added interest in light of the whole. 3. The Bible Lyric Study of Bible songs in their storysettings. An inlook into the characteristics of Biblical lyric verse. Its use in expressing heart-throbs of history and rare spiritual emotion. Application through finding and reciting or singing Biblical lyrics. 4. The Bible Ballad Comparative study of prose narrative and poetic story-telling as illustrated in Judges, Chapters IV and V depicting the story and the song of Deborah and her leadership against the enemies of Israel. Application through reading of other Bible narratives enhanced with poetic expression. 5. Bible Wisdom Study of wise sayings to be found in Proverbs and other bits of Biblical wisdom. Some of the brief Biblical essays may be added here as well as excerpts from Ecclesiastes. Application to be made through the choosing and reciting of favorite proverbs and other quotations. 6. A Bible Drama Story of the Book of Job briefly sketched. Its basic message examined. Study of the struggle of Job through testing to the divinely approved outcome. Application through finding some of the literary gems of wisdom voiced by Job in the drama. 7. Bible Oratory Study of the Farewell of Moses as depicted in Deuteronomy, with special attention to the master oration on The Blessing and the Curse its historical and spiritual implications. Application through finding the choice expressions of literature portraying the spirit and message of a great leader to a people delivered from bondage. 8. Bible Prophecy Study of some of the choice parts of Isaiah, with especial attention to the Messianic Hope, and his Rhapsody of Zion Redeemed. Application through reading selections from this "sunburst of literature," and through finding echoes of the Master Book in our own songs and anthems inspired by Isaiah. Lesson Helps Text: King James Translation of the Bible. Each member should possess a copy of this translation of convenient size and read- -able print, for home and class use. Special References: Moulton, Dr. R. G., Modern Reader's Bible Bates, Ernest S., The Bible Designed to Be Read as Living Literature These books are suitable for special help on the. Various lessons. One or the other of these volumes is already in the class library of many Relief Societies. These books will be found useful particularly in presenting stories, poems, and other forms of Bible literature in their varied literary forms. Both of these books are available at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. The regular price of The Modern Reader's 

 

 JUNE-JULY 1943 LESSON DEPARTMENT Bible is $2.75; price to Relief Society workers, $2.25 postpaid. Regular price of The Bible Designed to Be Read as Living Literature, by Bates, is $3.75; price to Relief Society workers is $2.75 postpaid. Moulton, Dr. R. G., Introduction to the Literature of the Bible. For illuminat'ng sidelights on Bible Literature this little book will add further interest to the work. It is now out of print, but may be found in public, home, or school libraries. 443 General Reference: Smith, Alphonso, What Literature Can Do for Me Another small and inexpensive book which will be found inspirational to students of literature just for general reading. It is also now out of print but may be found in public, home, or school libraries. Note: Other books may be suggested as the course is developed, and as they are found of especial help in forwarding the central purpose of bringing those who take the course closer to the Bible.
