[Vol30 | June 1943 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Messages from the Wives Saints]

Messages from the Wives of the General Authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints
EIGHTY SIX years is a long time to live in this world, but I still have much to enjoy and much to profit by. I give my Heavenly Father all praise and all thanks for what He has given to me. When I sit and meditate and look into the future I know what I hope for will come from Him. My constant prayer is that my sisters, both in and out of the Church, may be sustained in these trying times and given the assurance that the schemes of men will never overcome the will of God. In His own due time all will come right.  Augusta Winters Grant (Mrs. Heber J. Grant)
OUR Gospel offers such a wealth of blessings to its members, that to ask oneself the question which blessing has proved the most helpful would be a difficult one to answer. Looking back over my life, I feel I can sincerely say that the training I received in Relief Society work has proved the most useful to me. This embraces every phase of woman's life so necessary for the home and motherhood. The charity work gives spiritual uplift; each weekly lesson broadens her intellectually; the work day offers its members useful hints for the home. Thank God for this great organization.  Luacine Savage Clark (Mrs. J. Reuben Clark, Jr.)
MY experience has taught me that a mother's control over a child is lost or gained during the first few years of its life. Many a young mother with a smattering of psychology, who thinks correction will ruin her children's will power, lets them follow their own desires whether wise or unwise. Proper guidance in youth will prevent undesirable tendencies and encourage confidences in later life. Wise direction is not arbitrary, but kind and firm. Children should follow their own desires so long as these desires do not prompt them to be destructive, do not impose upon others, or do not injure the children's characters.  Ray Riggs McKay (Mrs. David O. McKay)
Page 365
  JUNE-JULY 1943
SOME of the blessings for which I desire to be duly grateful are: good and faithful parents, a kind and affectionate husband, a comfortable and happy home, and a large family who are a credit to their forebears and to the Church. These I regard as some of the most choice fruits of the Gospel, more than compensation for a life of sacrifice and service to the Church and to mankind.  Alice Robinson Richards (Mrs. George F. Richards)
AT the time of the organization of the Relief Society in March 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith said if the sisters would live up to their privileges, "the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates." While the angels in heaven may not be seen, yet we may be sure they are associated with the sisters in the great work assigned to them by revelation, which is the work of angels of mercy to the afflicted and oppressed.  Jessie Evans Smith (Mrs. Joseph Fielding Smith)
"Let us do our work as well, Both the unseen and the seen: Make the house where Gods may dwell, Beautiful, entire, and clean."  "The Builders," Longfellow  Irene Merrill Richards (Mrs. Stephen L Richards)
FORTUNATE is the individual who has learned to seek the Lord in secret prayer, when hearts may be freely unburdened and solace and strength received. This is a precious privilege denied to no one. The Savior says: "Enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret, and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly." (Matthew 6:6)  Amy Brown Lyman (Mrs. Richard R. Lyman)
THERE is one thought I am sure that gives joy to all who work actively in Relief Society: through this organization we are helping fulfill the righteous purposes of our Father regarding the welfare of His children on earth. It is not enough to love Him, for love may be passive; to make it real we must try to uplift our neighbors as well as ourselves. Relief Society gives us that opportunity.  Leah Dunford Widtsoe (Mrs. John A. Widtsoe)
"I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly." The Relief Society work adds a broad, deep understanding of these wonderful words of the Savior. This organization gives service which finds sweet expression in ministering to the sick, and providing means to clothe the poor, aid the sightless, and straighten the limbs of the crippled. Truly because of Christ's teachings life more abundantly has come to many souls.  Grace Pack Callis (Mrs. Charles A. Callis)
I HAVE enjoyed my musical career as only one who really loves music could. But, if I were asked to exchange for fame my happy home life with my parents and later my beloved husband and our fine sons, I would not. There are only three worth-while things in life the Gospel and all it offers us here and hereafter, children, and our loved ones. To me, the so-called "fine things of life" are secondary.  Lucy Gates Bowen (Mrs. Albert E. Bowen)
HOW glorious to be born a woman, although it is not an easy task to fill all the requirements of wife and mother! A woman must learn to take the bitter with the sweet and keep on smiling. To be blessed with children who are perfect in body and mind, to have them desirous of an education, to see them grow up to be good Latter-day Saints, and finally good American citizens is a direct answer to a mother's prayer.  Winnifred Saville Cannon (Mrs. Sylvester Q. Cannon)
WIVES OF GENERAL AUTHORITIES 367
  JUNE-JULY 1943
TO realize our greatest blessings as Church members, we must ever strive, with an eye single to the glory of God, for the goal of eternal life. The Master has shown us, by His example in overcoming all things, the way to this eternal goal. So likewise may we, if we are obedient to the laws of the Gospel, overcome all things and be granted a place in our Father's Kingdom.  Fern Tanner Lee (Mrs. Harold B. Lee)
ASSOCIATION with women in Relief Society strengthens and stimulates one to do and be her best. Perhaps this is because we all think of it as a unique society established by a prophet, and only our best thoughts and loftiest ideas are worthy of such a divinely inspired organization. I truly appreciate the opportunity of belonging to and working in the Relief Society.  Ida Jensen Romney (Mrs. Marion G. Romney)
IN 1939, I saw the women of Europe accept war without enthusiasm, but with resolution and fortitude. Now American women face the same grim tragedy with equal courage. Women have always shared in war's heartache and sacrifice, but not in the great responsibility of keeping the peace. Surely we can contribute by educating our children to safeguard liberty and justice.  Fawn Brimhall McKay (Mrs. Thomas E. McKay)
IN these perilous times it is a source of comfort to all Latter-day Saint women to feel the power of the Church, and to share in its blessings.  Edith Grant Young (Mrs. Clifford E. Young)
MY life has been made full by the opportunities our Church has given me to serve my fellow man. I know that through obedience to the Gospel, happiness and success may be enjoyed by all. I am grateful for our Church and its leadership.  Florence Gay Smith (Mrs. Nicholas G. Smith)
ALL my life I have been greatly blessed. My parents were ever watchful to make sure I was safe and in good places. They provided me with opportunities for education and self-improvement. I have many dear friends who fill my life with joy. My husband and children make my life rich and full, far beyond what I deserve. I pray that I may live to be worthy of my blessings.  Ruth Pingree Smith (Wife of Patriarch Joseph F. Smith)
"Men pass away, but people abide. See that ye hold fast the heritage we leave you. Yea, and teach your children its value, that never in the coming centuries their hearts may fail them, or their hands grow weak. Hitherto, we have been too much afraid. Henceforth, we will fear only God." Sir Francis Drake.  Valeria Brinton Young (Mrs. Levi Edgar Young)
RELIEF SOCIETY is a very necessary part of my life. My testimony is that it has made the lives of the Maoris, Hawaiian, Samoans, and Mexicans among whom I have lived, better. No woman can devote herself to Relief Society work without becoming more friendly, getting a better knowledge of the Gospel, learning how to be a better wife, mother, and citizen, and enriching her life in the world of literature.  Vilate Romney Ivins (Mrs. Antoine R. Ivins)
WIVES OF GENERAL AUTHORITIES 369
  JUNE-JULY 1943
I AM very happy to have this opportunity to express my appreciation of the Relief Society work as carried on by the women of our Church. My many years of intimate association with the good sisters of the Central States Mission has brought this organization close to my heart, and I say to all workers, "God bless you in your endeavors to alleviate distress and to make happier and richer, the lives of women everywhere."  Charlotte Towles Bennion (Mrs. Samuel O. Bennion)
MEMBERSHIP in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a precious privilege. In these days of fluctuating values, the way of life outlined by the principles and ordinances of the Gospel rises to new heights. When the weaknesses of man-made systems are so apparent, the strength and majesty of God's plan are more clearly revealed. To humbly and faithfully assist in forwarding that plan is the supreme desire of every true Latter-day Saint woman.  Rachel Grant Taylor (Mrs. John H. Taylor)
IT is wonderful to be alive today! Truly there is much to harass the heart and mind of one, but the glory of God is evidenced everywhere. In my early childhood mother taught me the word of God. I still cherish the following from Deuteronomy: "Be strong and of good courage, fear not nor be afraid; for the Lord thy God, He it is that doth go with thee; He will not fail thee, nor forsake thee."  Addie Eldredge Hardy (Mrs. Rufus K. Hardy)
THE women of this Church have always lived courageously in times of trouble. Their achievements, in face of unspeakable hardships, have become a symbol of heroic womanhood. Whether, in this present hour, we are mothers sorrowing in the absence of loved ones, or young mothers guiding our children in the early years of life, we must be, as were those before us, women of high character, abiding faith, and undeviating principle.  Alice Thornley Evans (Mrs. Richard L. Evans)
"The visions and blessings of old are returning And angels are coming to visit the earth."
The charter members of the Relief Society sang this hymn at their first meeting. Truly our sisters are angels of mercy, sharing, comforting, feeding the hungry, and caring for the sick and helpless. Their service has disseminated culture and made the world happier and better. It's a high privilege to be a member of the Relief Society. May the Lord continue to bless all members.  Ida Murdock Kirkham (Mrs. Oscar A. Kirkham)
MY dear sisters: In your deep spirituality we see mirrored the beauty of Sarah, the strength of Hannah, and the purity of "Mary of Old." "Strength and honor are your clothing" and your children "rise up and call you blessed." You are finding peace and comfort in the promise of an angel, "Nothing is impossible with the Lord"; and you are replying in love and faith, "My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in Jesus my Savior."  Ina Ashton Richards (Mrs. LeGrand Richards)
MY Recipe for Happiness: Cupfuls of thoughtfulness, a good measure of humility, A sprinkling of sunshine, a pinch of good humor, Stir well with self-forgetfulness; season with intelligence and understanding; Warm thoroughly with the spirit of the Gospel; share with generous portions to all.  Rae Jeremy Ashton (Mrs. Marvin O. Ashton)
OPPORTUNITIES that come from the privilege of being a member of this Church bring happiness and development. Everyone can work, regardless of time, ability, or inclinations. I always want to remember that our real objective in this life is to so progress and develop that we may win eternal life in the Celestial Kingdom of our Heavenly Father. Sincere activity in the Church will help us accomplish this to our blessing and satisfaction.  Madeline Bitner Wirthlin (Mrs. Joseph L. Wirthlin)
WIVES OF GENERAL AUTHORITIES 371