Contagious and Infectious Diseases and Quarantine Regulations Dr. Jane W. Skolfield I am delighted to meet with this congregation because I feel that in this great organization perhaps we can reach a large number of people, especially in our own state and the adjoining states where the Saints reside. As a physician and as a mother, I am able to see many things both from the physician's standpoint and from the mother's standpoint, and consequently I hope to give you something of practical value on these subjects. Our states and cities spend thousands of dollars each year in trying to protect you and your families from the ravages of disease. The health officers, which are in every county, are the agents of society, and sometimes they have a very grievous time in trying to enforce the quarantine regulations. Many people do not cooperate with the health officials, and many people feel that the quarantine laws are too strict. People should not have this attitude, because the health agents do not come to your homes for the purpose of interfering in any way. They come there to protect you and your families and the community. Every school district should have, in addition to health officers, a trained nurse to inspect the schools and the children. In some districts the school nurses are not receiving the cooperation of the parents. The people in the communities should realize the importance of the health officers and school nurses, and should cooperate with them in every possible way. Perhaps many of you feel that the quarantine is imposed for too long a period, or that it is imposed unnecessarily when there is but a light case of some disease, but it is not the disease in itself that you need to fear, so much as it is the results which follow, and sometimes a person with a light form of disease may give the contagion to a friend and cause a death. Many people fear the yellow quarantine flag, because of the type of disease it represents, such as smallpox, typhoid and scarlet fever. But the minor diseases, such as whooping cough and measles, which are not considered seriously by many people, are also very dangerous because of the serious after-effects, and the fatalities resulting. Due to the carelessness of people in not observing the quarantine regulations, these minor diseases are very hard to control. In the past, very little precaution was taken to avoid these diseases, as people thought they must have them some time during their lives, and that they might as well have them and get them over with, thinking that thereafter they would be immune. It has been proved beyond the shadow of a doubt that even in adult life, people can have these ailments as many as three or four times. Measles are very contagious during the incubation period. Therefore quarantine regulation should be strictly enforced. They are also very dangerous. According to United States statistics for 1920, from 5% to 35% of all measles cases died, and during that year alone there were 20,000 deaths from measles recorded. That makes a total of approximately a half million cases of measles in the United States in one year, after all our enlightenment. These statistics do not show the number who have defective hearing and eyesight, and all the other ills which follow in the wake of measles and are often not discovered until they are fastened on the child. Some children never recover from the effects of the disease, but die later on from the after results. In July of this year there was a great health conference in San Francisco, in connection with the American Medical Association. About twenty-two countries were represented, and thousands of people came to the great conference, where the slogan was, "Health in Education." And yet many of our people here at home do not realize that they owe it to society to help protect others from the diseases from which they may be suffering. The following communicable diseases should be reported to the board of health (or to the health officer if you have not an organized board in your town): Diphtheria, scarlet fever, smallpox, whooping cough, chicken pox, measles, mumps, membranous croup, typhoid fever, tuberculosis, cerebro-spinal meningitis, infantile paralysis, pneumonia, influenza, leprosy and cholera. It is recommended that each mother obtain from the board of health one of the pamphlets which is issued, giving the quarantine regulations, the diseases subject to quarantine, and duration of quarantine. Diphtheria usually begins with an ordinary sore throat, and unfortunately mothers sometimes permit children to go to school with sore throats. Perhaps they are in school two or three hours before the nurse discovers the condition, and by that time, several other children may have been infected. The mother should at once isolate the child afflicted with the sore throat, and if it becomes worse, a physician should be called. With proper care at the beginning, only a light case of diphtheria may result. Perhaps a child who is coming down with scarlet fever may have only a scarlet rash, and is permitted to go to school in this condition. Scarlatina and scarlet rash are identical with scarlet fever. The child who is allowed to go to school with this scarlet rash, and who may later have but a light case of scarlet fever, can give the fever to a child who may finally succumb from it. All these communicable diseases have a special selection for the vital organs. Scarlet fever often results in the running ear and mastoid infection. There has been much said about smallpox quarantine and vaccination. In foreign countries children are vaccinated from the time they are six months old, but here, where we have free thought and free speech and can determine what we want, we sometimes have a hard time to control the disease. We have had only very light forms of smallpox until last year, when we had a violent form, and in some cases, people who had had smallpox or had been vaccinated a number of years before, were not immune. Sometimes, it is advisable to be re-vaccinated. Many of the cases which died from the disease had been vaccinated. Sometimes it takes the deaths of a number of prominent people in the community to save others. Thousands of people were vaccinated last year. In times past when the vaccination serum was not as pure as it is now, a number of people had very severe experiences, and the news of one or two cases of this kind made people opposed to vaccination. Many people have lost their lives from smallpox, and others have been terribly maimed. Isn't it better to be vaccinated and have but one spot on the arm, than to die from a desperate case of smallpox, or to have the whole face disfigured? Whooping cough is one of the most serious things we have to contend with, because of the negligence in caring for this illness. I have been in many localities of this city where I have seen whooping cough signs here and there, but due to the disregard of the quarantine, people who have been free from the disease, have had to keep their children in, because the children with whooping cough were allowed to go out. Of course, the fresh air is a fine thing for the children who are recovering from whooping cough, but certainly they might keep to their own yards, and not mingle with other children, who are likely to become infected while playing with children, who are coughing, sneezing, and vomiting. The germs are on clothing, books, side-walks, grass, lawns, where children may pick them up. In some cases the quarantine is broken too soon, and children are allowed to return to school, when the parents know that they are a menace to the whole school. Sometimes mothers whose children have whooping cough hanging on, take them along when they go visiting, perhaps to see a new baby, which often results in tiny babies taking the disease. It is almost certain that whooping cough will be fatal to very tiny babies, but people have such a pronounced habit of going to see new babies, regardless of whether they have colds or other communicable diseases which may infect the mother and baby both. People could just as well wait until they are entirely free from colds and coughs before visiting the new babies, and thus give the mothers and babies a little while longer to live. Everyone knows that chicken pox is not serious, if it is treated right, and yet our statistics show that we have had some serious results following chicken pox. Some people think they can discriminate between chicken pox and smallpox, while it sometimes baffles the most skillful physician to determine whether the infection is a severe case of chicken pox or smallpox. No matter what disease threatens, the patient should be isolated until the quarantine physician has seen the case. The quarantine regulations are observed much better among the poorer classes of people. In the richer classes, where people are able to call their own physicians, and are not dependent on the county physicians, they are sometimes able to prevail upon the doctor to permit them to isolate a patient, while the remainder of the family come and go at will, without any regard for the quarantine laws. I heard of an instance in southern Utah where a case of smallpox broke out, and within a week there were sixty cases in the community, with no doctor within a radius of forty or sixty miles. Many of you have to contend with just such untoward conditions in your communities. The women in the communities should see that they have one of two things, either an active welfare committee, or a trained nurse in the schools. The cost of maintaining a nurse in the schools is only the price of one good teacher, and you have a perfect right to ask for it. A nurse can be supplied with a cost of only 25c per capita, usually. Suppose your taxes are 25c more; isn't it worth it to know that the health of your children is being safeguarded? I know that the Latter-day Saint people have been taught to obey the law, and I know that there is not so far reaching an organization anywhere as the Relief Society, therefore, I hope that you will have some system of taking up these subjects in your communities. If your county boards of health and your schools neglect to enforce the regulations, and fail to provide adequate inspection for your school children, remember that you are tax payers, and strive to create a sentiment in favor of proper regard for quarantine laws, and make an effort to have a nurse in your school district.