The Companionship of Parents and Children Julia A. F. Lund, Member of General Board
My dear Sisters and Friends:?I know you will believe me when I tell you that there is a mighty conflict of feelings within me at this moment; a feeling of exalted pride and of reverent humility: pride in the membership and service of this glorious organization, humility in the sense of my own limitations and the magnitude of the subject upon which I am to address you for a short time. I am reminded here of an experience I had some years ago when I was working in the cause of Prohibition. I went to a certain city to deliver an address. Before the meeting began, the chairman of the ladies' committee said to me, "Now Mrs. Lund, we, here, are all thoroughly converted to Prohibition, what we want of you is to tell us how to get it and how to use it when we get it." That is exactly the nature of my duty to-day, as I see it. I do not believe there is a person within the sound of my voice who is not converted to my theme; who does not firmly believe that the companionship of parents and children is one of the most absorbing and most vital issues of the hour. How to get it, how to use it, how to keep it?those are the questions. Oh, could I but answer them satisfactorily to every mother!
There are certain old truths which will be truths as long as the world endures and which no amount of progress can change. One of these is that the family (that organization consisting of father, mother, and children) is the foundation of all things in the State or Church; another, that sins against pure and healthy family life are those which of all others are sure in the end to be visited most heavily upon the nations in which they take place. So, in this social order of ours, we must work for all around us, but especially for those closest and nearest, as the best possible preparation for doing our duty to the State and to the Church. The keenest of mortal eyes see but dimly at times, but each of us as mothers can strive?at least as light and strength are given us?toward the ideal home where there must exist a perfect companionship between parents and children, built upon a feeling of mutual interest, knowledge, taste and sympathy. In this great modern industrial civilization which we today enjoy, with opportunities and advantages such as the world has never known before, there are many and grave dangers to counter balance our achievements and our triumphs. Far more important than the question of occupation or wealth of our people is the question of how their family life is conducted. All other things are of minor consequence, so long as there are real homes and so long as those who make up these homes do their duty to one another. One great thinker has said, "No piled-up wealth, no splendor of material growth, no brilliance of artistic development, will permanently avail any people unless its home life is healthy."
I am sure, dear sisters, there is no disagreement among us as to the importance of the home. Roosevelt has compared a home without children to a land without trees?barren and unfruitful. While some children will go wrong in spite of the best training, and some will go right even where their surroundings are most unfortunate, nevertheless an immense amount depends upon the family training, and just through this family training comes the companionship of which we are speaking. It is the animating spirit?the factor that either makes or mars the home. If I were to put the question here to-day, there is not a shadow of doubt what the answer would be?"What do our children mean to us?" OUR CHILDREN?"The loveliest flowers from God's own garden," as one old writer expressed it. The attitude of our heavenly Father toward this great privilege of parenthood is shown in the story of Abraham, upon whose head was pronounced the blessing of all worldly wealth and honor, but the triumph of triumphs, the crowning blessing, was the promise of a posterity numerous as the sands of the sea. From the inspiration of the gospel we draw the impelling motives for our aims in life, and we get a proper sense of values if we live up to its teachings. This has taught us the real significance of the question put by Him who "spake as never man spake," "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" And we mothers may all ask ourselves, "What doth it profit us, though we gain the whole world, and lose the souls of our children?" So this privilege of parenthood, this blessing of children, carries with it the gravest responsibility of life. Our duty is hard, our tasks great, but greatest of all is our reward. Into the woman's keeping is committed the destiny of the generations to come after us. It is not a part of my subject, as I understand it, to tell what a mother should teach her sons and daughters, except in the words of a great American, "To teach boys and girls alike that they should have the privilege of making their own place in the world, and that they are not to look forward to lives spent in avoiding difficulties, but to lives spent in overcoming difficulties; teach them that work for themselves and also for others is not a curse, but a blessing; seek to make them happy, to make them enjoy life, but also seek to make them face life with the steadfast resolution to wrest success from labor and adversity, and to do their whole duty before God and to man." Surely she who can thus train her sons and daughters is thrice fortunate among women, and if she has succeeded so far, she has accomplished it through the establishment of a companionship with her children. It can never be done through any other medium.
Since the world began there have only been two classes of people, one which declares that our times are the worst the world has seen, and another one which claims our times as best. I believe we as a people belong to the latter class, with some reservations. Surely we appreciate our blessings, but we are not blind enough not to see that there are many great and real dangers to be reckoned with, and those which concern us more than all others combined have to do with our children. I make the statement without qualifying it?The only real protection or adequate defense against them can be afforded by the home and its influences. I could not?even if I wished?go into analysis of the social unrest and crime of today; those are problems of civics and economics entirely outside of my theme, but there is no denying the fact that some of our young people, especially girls, have gone in for crime professionally, on a scale extensive enough to be alarming. This subject is ably discussed by Mary E. Hamilton of the New York Police force. Her experience as a police officer in the largest city in the United States has placed her in a position to speak with authority. When asked if there was any remedy for the feminine criminal epidemic, she responded quite cheerfully, "There is at least one sure cure. Training the girl in the home. Girls are not trained in the home nowadays as they used to be. A girl should be taught some useful household tasks, or, at the very least, given by teaching and good example a good standard of morals. Many girls of today have no moral sense whatever. All crime is a form of sickness. It is not normal for the normal being, and when any child shows a tendency toward moral crookedness that child should be taken to a physician or a psychologist or both. If a girl cuts her finger the mother rushes her to the doctor. If she develops a queer disposition, the mother says she is like her paternal grandmother. Most crime could be wiped out if parents were intelligent enough to have queer acts or queer traits of character examined by some authority on the subject. We could almost abolish penal institutions if children had proper care while they were still in the grammar school. Every trait that appears later is said to develop between the ages of seven and fourteen. I can go into any advanced grammar class now and pick out the future women of the street."
Judge Ben Lindsay is not at all despondent over the girl of today. He says she is not a bad type, the real trouble is that there is no companionship between some parents and their children. It is an age of conservatism vs. Jazz, and there is no understanding nor sympathy between them. Mothers give too little?girls take too much. They begin picking at each other instead of quietly and thoroughly threshing it out and coming to an understanding. If parents have not that patience, forbearance, and determination to understand these "jazz-age children" they will cut loose and go where they are understood, and therein lies the tragedy of the situation. It is only when parents and children come to a fellowship, built upon understanding, that they can be one in feeling and in heart. One great American orator, in a plea for harmony between the states, summed up the whole subject it seemed to me, in the words, "My countrymen, know one another and you will love one another." I am one of those who believe that, except in the realm of material invention, there is nothing new under the sun. We have heard much of late of the glory of the Pilgrim Fathers. Puritanism is held up to us as the foundation of all that is best in this glorious American commonwealth of ours, and yet the very same problem of youth was a matter of concern in Plymouth. If we scan the serious pages of Cotton Mather and Jonathan Edwards we shall find that some of the young men of their day gave occasion for serious reproof because they would smile and speak lightly upon the Sabbath day; and the demure little Puritan maid would let a stray curl escape or put a dash of bright color on her somber gown if she could by chance find one. Oh, youth is youth and will be to the end of time, and its extremes are the necessary reaction from a too conservative age, that might, unchecked, run to bigotry and intolerance. The faults of young people are often the distortion and exaggeration of a really good trait which has not been properly developed along the lines of good traits when it was in the formative stage. This is particularly true in the matter of dress. We applaud the girl's desire to dress becomingly, we should not denounce too strongly her poor taste. She needs education and proper direction, and most girls will take it too, if it is presented in the right way, by someone whom she feels understands her. The fact that young people are ungrateful is a common complaint among us today. Well, they are?it is true. But that, as other faults, is not exactly modern. Turn to the pages of the world's greatest dramatist who died about 1616 and read the mighty passion play and let your hearts go out in sympathy to tragic old Lear in his heart-broken lament, "Oh, ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend, more hideous when thou showest thee in a child than in a sea monster." Some children are just naturally grateful and appreciative, others just aren't. But this development of the trait of ingratitude indicates a woeful lack of education along the lines of appreciation, either of material gifts, services rendered, or of the things worthwhile in the world. Certainly this fault, if any in all the category, can be charged to parental neglect.
Perhaps the fault in our children most painful to serious thinking people today is the lack of reverence. The disregard for any authority, temporal or spiritual. There is grave cause for concern on this point, but is the sin confined to the young alone? Is it not an irreverent age? Can we blame our children too much for reflecting the spirit of the time? Here again must we resort to the home as the one sure cure, and see to it that it is a sanctuary where the laws of God and our country are respected and observed. So we might go on with all the problems and trials of life and refer them back to the home. You are quite right in saying to yourselves, "This is a talk on the power of the home or home influence, rather than a talk on the companionship of parents." I plead guilty to taking a long and circuitous route to reach my destination. I have deliberately stressed the home as the greatest, most unfailing source of all good things in the world, but it is the workshop where human characters are built and the manner in which they are formed depends upon the relationship existing between parents and children. The home can not be what I have in my weak way suggested it should be unless these relations are of the proper character. Whether they are so or not depends, it is true, upon both parents and children, but much more upon parents. They must do their best, most effective training before the child is old enough to appreciate what is being done. Many a child has formed the habit of incorrect speech and has felt that handicap all his life. Teach the little ones to speak correctly and to do the right thing. The wherefore will come in due time. I have said much, and yet have not even attempted to say how the home may be made to measure up to the high standards set. Here a very real difficulty presents itself, for each home has its own problems and its own standards, but there are a few great underlying principles which must be observed if any degree of success is attained. First, the co-operative attitude must exist between the founders of the home, this to be strengthened by every new member added. It must stand upon the rock foundation of truth and moral purity. The material conditions must be such that the inmates may at least live a normal life. The great Master teacher said, "Man cannot live by bread alone," neither can children live by merely having their material wants cared for. This is very necessary, it is true, but it is only a part, and so far as the mother is concerned, much the easiest part of her work. First of all parents must be trying to be, or at least putting forth their best effort in, what they wish their children to be. It is impossible for you to be an example of what you are not. The only way to teach children the beauty and use in service is to teach them how, and permit them to render it. "Oh, go away and leave me alone, I haven't time to be bothered," said a hurried, impatient mother to her little three-year-old daughter who was trying to help perform a certain household task. Turning to me that mother remarked, "Isn't it a fact that children always want to help when they can't, and when they really can, they won't?" And I could but acknowledge the truth of the assertion, but the mental question presented itself, "With whom rests the fault?" The desire to help is born with every normal child and parents have no right to complain if, through their own neglect and rebuffing, the impulse is not encouraged and developed. There can be no such thing as household drudgery when all assist with the tasks, and through the association in the discharge of these duties comes the sweetest companionship that can be experienced. Two fathers were discussing their boys of the same age one day. One remarked, "My boy is the bane of my life, he can't do anything well, whatever he attempts he spoils." "That's strange," said the other, "I would rather have my boy help me than any other man I can hire. He knows better than I do myself at times what I want done, and he is always willing to do it." A neighbor to the two said to me, "That is a true statement of conditions as they now exist, but I think I know the cause. The one father has been almost a stranger to his son, he has never tried to teach him anything and he has no patience with the lad now because he does not know how to do things. The other father has trained the boy since infancy, they have always been pals. Before the little fellow could drive he was allowed to hold the ends of the lines, and as he grew older he was trained in the things he should know. You have seen the results. Our daily life is full of just such object lessons as these." If I had to suggest one thing in which I think we as parents are most lacking it would be a sympathetic understanding of our children. I admit there are grave faults among our people, but the parents are quite as guilty as the children, and if we are going to hold our children and do our whole duty to them, we shall have to come out from our walls of conservatism and at least learn their ideals before we can hope to raise their standards to ours. If you want your boys to read the sermon, you will have to read the sport page. Even in this you can drive home some of the best lessons of life. Point out to the boy (and at a certain age it has more effect than a sermon) that to become the champion of the world Jack Dempsey had to just about live up to what we have always taught in the Word of Wisdom. Live with the children, follow their paths, try with them to read "sermons in stones, books in the running brooks, and good in everything." Teach them that the flower of youth never looks so lovely as when it bends to the sun of righteousness. But at the same time make them feel that though the years may bring wrinkles and gray hair, it can never take from us the spirit, the heart of youth. Know everything that claims the interest of your children, be a good sport with them, remembering always in the beautiful words of Wordsworth, "A child, more than all other gifts that earth can offer to declining man, brings hope with it and forward looking thoughts."
As I look back on the history of our people, I see a past that is full of glory; looking ahead, I see a future full of promise. We have faith that we shall not prove false to the memories of the men and women of the mighty past. They did their work and left us the splendid heritage we now enjoy. Our highest aim is through the medium of loving companionship to train our children to appreciate this inheritance. We may thus in our turn have an assured confidence that we shall be able to leave this heritage unwasted and enlarged to our children's children.
The Salt Lake County Hospital will open a new class for nurse students in January. The course of training at this hospital occupies three years. Applicants must be between the ages of 19 and 31, and of at least average height and physique. In addition to board and lodging, pupils are given a monthly allowance of $15. Those interested in this course should write at once to the Superintendent of the County Hospital Training School, Salt Lake City, Utah.