[WomansExponent | Vol6 | 1877 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: THE CAVALCADE. | Author: Unknown]

THE CAVALCADE. 

	Merrily sounded the clattering hoofs as
the gay riders swept past on their spirited
steeds, their cheeks as roseate as the bright,
June morning. Hastily joining them, I
was soon drinking in the inspiration of the
fragrant air, which seemed heavily laden
with rich spices and perfumes. After
a short canter over the hills, one of the
cool, shady canons east of our city, was
reached. It is needless to describe the
scenery, all such delightful places, and glor-
ious mornings have a similarity. Birds,
bloom and fragrance were everywhere
around, and fresh, mountain breezes fan-
ning the cheeks, caused the pulses to quick-
en and the heart to glow with newly invig-
orated life and hope. The day was spent
among nature's wildest haunts, culling the
different varieties of regal and modest flow-
ers, and weaving them into garlands of the
richest dyes. Sol sunk to rest, as the gay
cavalcade wended their way towards the
city again, their forms wreathed and dec-
orated in the beautiful bands of bloom from
the wildwoods and valleys. The world
seemed very bright to them, and the
music of their youthful voices floated forth
on the evening air as they neared the
“dearest spot on earth," HOME
 Let those who are over-burdened with
care, forget for a time the busy, bustling
world, and seek out some of nature's beau-
tiful bowers, and there surrounded by the
mighty works of the Great Omnipotent, in-
hale the pure breath from the clear, cool
heavens; it will be as balm to the weary
soul, and impart strength and fortitude, to
again take up the cross of life. 
						 ZOE.


GENUINE neighborly love knows no dis-
tinction of persons. It is like the sun,
which does not ask on what it shall shine
or what it shall warm, but shines and warms
by the very laws of its own being.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
LULA GREENE RICHARDS,
EMMELINE B. WELLS.}Editors.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regualr advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.
