THE ECONOMY OF WOMEN.

	In these advanced days of Women’s
Rights, Women’s Economics as seen from
the standpoint of domestic life, may seem
very old-fashioned, and of little importance.
But to a housekeeper in the true sense of
the word, they are like many little things,
stepping stones to greater.
	It is an old saying that “straws show
which way the wind blows,’’ so also very,
little things are true indexes to character.
	It is the “little foxes that spoil the vines,’’
so it is the little things neglected and un-
done that makes a home unpleasant and un-
attractive. If the children’s playthings are
littered around a room, it does not present
a very inviting appearance. They should
be taught to put their toys away, for it
saves the mother many weary steps, and is
the beginning of a very necessary part of
every child’s education, the cultivation of
order. Order is called Heaven’s first law,
and at home is the place to begin its culti-
vation, it is just as necessary to have a
place for everything and everything in its
place, and that each member should do their
part to establish and maintain this happy
condition, as it is in God’s Holy Temples,
to observe law and order.
	What the most talked of “Coming
Woman” will be is yet in the future. That
she will be other than a better, nobler,
more perfect type of womanly woman, no
thinking person can desire, but whatever
she will be it will only be attained by in-
dividual effort. To be a faithful wife and
true mother is conceeded by most to be the
Ultima Thule of womanhood.
	A woman’s life is necessarily many sided,
for she must combine a dozen different
trades or occupations in one, if she has ample
means, she may not be called on to perform
all these duties herself, but she must have
a practical knowledge of them, to know
when they are properly performed or direct
others, and that often means harder work
than to do it one’s self. She must see there
is no waste in any department, that there
is not more food prepared than necessary,
and what is left thrown away.
	She must know how to prepare good


[Column 1]
wholesome food, and how to make use of
even the scraps left over. If these so called
hard times would teach many people true
economy, they would be a blessing indeed.
Children if allowed to go to the pantry
whenever they wish, would not only waste
food, but acquire habits of irregular eating.
They should not be allowed to mar or break
the furniture, smear the windows or mirrors
with dirty fingers, tear books or magazines.
A soiled book is a disgrace to a housekeeper.
Clothing should be mended when torn, “a
stitch in time saves nine.” Button-holes
made and buttons sewed on before a gar-
ment is worn; on the other hand, all but-
tons should be cut off when clothes are
worn out, before they are put in the rag-bag.
Shoes should be buttoned, they wear better
and keep a better shape.
	Domestic economy will include economy
of time, the old saying, “time is money,”
will apply to the housewife as well as the
business man. It is not economy for a wo-
man to sit up late nights to sew, or do
other household work. Many a mother
has burned the midnight oil and tired out
body and mind to prepare fine clothes for
her children, that not only stimulate and
encourage pride and vanity in their hearts,
but overwork and lack of necessary rest
cause her to become a fretful, peevish, sickly
woman, unfitted to enjoy or perform life’s
highest duties. A woman’s time is too val-
uable to waste in baking bread to throw to
the pigs or chickens, she has too much to
do to prepare herself, and cultivate the tal-
ents God has given her, to waste her time
gossiping and talking over the failings of
her neighbors, or finding fault with the au-
thorities of the church. She should be con-
tinually striving to reach a little higher
daily, to keep the lesser laws of God, that
she may be able to obey the higher laws also,
and teach the children entrusted to her care,
to be worthy men and women, on whose
shoulders the burden of life will soon fall.
	It is the mother’s influence that molds
the children more than any other, and it is
through and by this measure the race will
be elevated or degraded. The mother must
teach the articles of faith, the ten com-
mandments, to pray, to ask the blessing at
the table, so that when called upon to know
these things, they are ready to respond.
To come to family prayers with clean hands
and faces, and smooth hair, to hold their
knife and fork properly at table, to be neat
and quiet at table.
	An apostle not long ago in his prayer
circle, advised the members to button their
own collars, tie their own neckties and
brush their own clothes. Whether there
was any more on this line I do not know,
but it might well have been added do
not leave papers you take off of packages or
are using a part of, lie around for some one
else to pick up, or leave coats and hats
hanging on chairs or laying on tables, or
shoes setting in various places to be moved
whenever necessary to sweep. The ex-
ample of the head of the family has great
weight with the children; Papa does so,
why can’t I? Living before children is a
constant repressing of indulging in careless
habits by the elders, if they care anything
for their example or the well being of their
children.
	It takes a woman of firm principle and
strong will to perform the little duties faith-
fully, and bear the little annoyances of a
housekeeper's daily life, when perhaps her
inclinations and tastes run in a different

