		EGYPTOLOGY.

	The colossus of the Ramesseum at
Thebes, a sitting statue of 800 tons, was 60
feet in height. Mr. Petrie shows the Zoan
monolith, of over 900 tons, to have been
between 90 and 100 feet in height. You
may judge, too, of the stupendous charac-
ter of the buildings at Zoan, when this ex-
plorer states that over 20,000,000 of large
bricks were found in the wall at the end of
the temple axis. Of course they were not
counted one by one. Where was Goshen?
Naville had read on two fragments in the
Cairo Museum inscriptions relating to the
nome (district) in Egypt called Arabia,
which was known from the Septuagint and
Greek historians to represent the land of
Goshen. When he espied a block of black
granite peeping from the mud at Saft-el-
Henneh, four miles east of the railway sta-
tion Zag-a-Zig, his trained eye instantly
recognized it as a third fragment of the
monument from which the two fragments
had been taken. The results of six weeks
of work proved that he had found the site
of the city of Goshen, about which lay that
fat land.
	Josephus is enthroned as a credible his-
torian by the disclosures of Naville at the
site of Onias, one of the Jewish cities re-
ferred to by Isaiah (19:19).
	How the spade itself must have caught
an electric thrill when it turned up at
Tahpanhes the gold handle to Pharaoh
Hophras’ tray! He entertained Jeremiah
and the royal daughters of Zedekiah but
Nebuchadrazzar entered Egypt and razed
the palace-fort. Read the story in that
prophet, 37-47. Petrie well exulted in the
fund report: “The interest of finding the
only Egyptian building specifically named
in the Old Testament is unique, and this
is increased by the fact that its arrange-
ments explain a special description given by
Jeremiah.”
	Those Tel-el-Amarna tablets are an ex-
haustless mine yet how many like tablets
patiently await the discoverer’s eye? As
stated at the Congress of Orientalists in
September at Geneva, a tablet disinterred at
Lachish, the Amorite city captured by
Joshua, has on it the name of Zimrida, the
govenor of Lachish, the very man men-
tioned in the Tel-el-Amarna tablets. So
not only Tel-el-Amarna proves the existence
of Lachish, but shows the interchange of
these tablets, used as they were, or diploma-
tic correspondence between Egypt, Canaan
and Babylonia.
	A papyrus of the third century that

