MRS. E. B. WELLS:
		Dear Friend:—
	I CAN still testify to the truth of the old
saying, that to thoroughly appreciate a
blessing we need to be deprived of it for a
season. A day or two ago we received a
bundle of letters and papers, the accumu-
lation of three weeks at the Juarez Post
Office.
	This is the one unpleasant feature of our
new dwelling place, we have no mail line
established yet and have to wait for our
mail matter until some of the brethren go
to Juarez, near ninety miles from here, but we
expect to have a Post Office nearer, if not
here soon. Should any of my old friends
in Utah care to know how I like this place
can truly say, that I feel more settled and
contented than I have for many years. I
love the creations of our God in their wild
grand beauty, and this is as lovely a place
for an inland town as I ever have seen.
The valley is almost a perfect circle set in a
frame of evergreen trees, the land is not a
flat plane but just rolling enough for
security and beauty, last season after the
rains it was like a beautiful flower garden
all over the valley, on the south west side
is a strip of pine and fir trees, running
down into the valley, and a block has been
reserved for a park; on the south east are
beautiful cliffs and high mounds, some re-
sembling ruined castles, on the north west
is a lovely site for a temple, and I hope ere
many years to see one there, it over looks
two valleys, this one and that one is called
North Valley, a fine location for a small
village.
	This certainly is one of the choice places
the Lord has held in reserve for some wise
purpose, and I think those permitted to set-
tle here highly favored of the Lord. It is
a large beautiful, bountiful country, and I
cannot see how any of the little, petty con-
tracted, notions and selfishness of man can
flourish here, it seems to me that the works
of natnre, and the spirit of the Almighty
that I feel here, must put such things to
shame, and may God grant that the powers
of Satan may get no strong hold here. I
sincerely believe that every word of Brother
Thatcher in regard to this place will be
realized in the near future.
	With my bundle of papers was one
number of the EXPONENT, April 15th,
which has been of more than usual interest
to me, I see the names of dear old friends
who have been standby’s of our little paper
since its earliest existence. In the up’s
and down’s of my wanderings, I have
neglected to add my mite to its columns, but
have never lost interest in its welfare, have
felt that it was ably supported by those bet-
ter posted on the subjects of greatest inter-
est to its readers.
	I have read over some of the articles in
the number referred to several times, I


heartily endorse the sentiments of ‘Lula,
in her “Spirit of Reform” reduced to prac-
tice, and pray God speed the day; can
sympathize with “Sister Augusta,” in
“Hunting A Hat,” and memory turns back
to the day when her’s was no “Weary face
and faded hair.” 
	Ah, well let us take comfort in the
thoughts that the weary face will grow
young and bright again, when we have
fought the battle of life and passed beyond
the river.
	“Back to the Long Ago,” of L. M.
Hewlings, touches a chord in my heart, as
it must in every heart that reads it and has
had a like experience; it is a sad, sad pleas-
ure to go back after many years to the
home and scenes of childhood, to enter in
at the same old door, to stand on the same
hearth-stone, and find not the loved ones of
those early days, find not the dear hand
that lighted the fires on the old hearth-
stone, hear not the loving voices bidding us
welcome, to find the same garden flowers,
but planted and tended by others not of the
old time band.
	O, life what a fitful changing dream of
joy and sorrow, of which the fleeting years
leave us but a memory. To my friends in
Utah I would send love and greeting, some
of them promised a visit to this land when
we get a Temple here, and I pray that time
may come ere those helped make the days
spent in our Salt Lake Temple, so
pleasant to me have passed on to the “Better
Land” to reap the reward of their labors
here.
Sincerely Your Friend,
