BOX ELDER STAKE.
	OUR Quarterly Conference convened in
the Tabernacle at Brigham City, on June
11th, 1895. Counselor Mayr Wright pre-
siding. Singing, “Oh, say what is Truth.”
Prayer by Emilia D. Madsen. Singing,
“Up, up, ye defenders of Zion.”
Minutes read by Annie Wixom, accepted.
	Counselor M. Wright said: “I feel so sor-
ry our president is unable to be with us,
may the blessings of the Lord be on us all.”
	Sister Michelsen, president of the Scandi-
navian Association; We are but few who
meet together, but the Lord has blest us,
we have emigrated fifty-eight souls.
	Sister Albertson, president Bear River
City: “Our meetings are well attended, we
try to do our duty.”

[Column 3]
	Sister Hubbard, President at Willard,
“Let us try to be faithful and train our
children in virtue and truth.”
	Sister Jensen, President at Geneva: “We
have a good attendance and a good spirit in
our meetings.”
	Sister Thorne, President Three Mile
Creek, “We find it a great benefit to read
the Lectures on Faith.”
	Sister Dewey, President Deweyville,
“The record we make on this earth, is what
we will be judged by.”
	Sister Hunsaker, President Honeyville,
“Those who are faithful, will gain the re-
ward.”
	Sister Rollins, from Snowville, “I hope
that I may ever have a testimony, may we
all prove faithful.”
	Sister Bowen, from Beaver Dam, “We
have good attendance and all are ready to
do their duty.”
	President Zina D. H. Young, “I feel
very happy, we are something like the in-
fants, their weakness is their strength, we
need to lean upon the Lord.”
	“I never saw a time before like this, how
we need to come together, gaining love and
confidence, this union is to be the greatest
boon, to build up one another, this is our
strength.
	When I look at my old sisters, I wonder,
where our recruits are coming from? We
advance and at last step out. We are here
to be tried, to learn to endure, and to do our
work well; our religion goes into every
household, that is the beauty of it, do our
little duties well, the world have not the
key to approach the Lord as we have, we
should greatly appreciate this privilege.”
Referred to President Woodruff saying,
“That the destroying angel has gone
abroad. I am not a clannist, I love one
nation, as well as another. It is a divine
mission of woman, to raise her children;
build you a Relief Society house as soon as
you can, the Prophet Joseph gave a lot for
that purpose, at the first organization. We
want to grow and increase in all the good
things that God gives. May the Lord
strengthen us to do His will and keep His
commandments, is my prayer, amen.”
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells, “I am very
pleased to be here, I feel, that not any of
us really realize what the Relief Society
has been to us, we would not have had the
chance to advance, without it, as we do
now, every sister who rises up to speak,
helps some one else, we want to be brave,
we want to remember we stand in the
presence of the Lord; we must forgive
each other, and look into our own hearts.”
Related a great deal from Washington, re-
ferred to the Scandinavian sisters in Copen-
hagen, about their meetings. Spoke of the
Maori sisters. The Sandwich Islands re-
port is always interesting, really an exam-
ple to us. I think we should be a little
careful about our gifts, I believe we sisters
should be a light to the world. Spoke of
the work of sister Noal. She said “When
I went to Washington and Atlanta, last
winter, one of the things I tried to do was
to look after a Silk Experiment Station, I
saw some of the influential men, and they
spoke favorably, we had already petitioned
for one or more Experiment Stations in
Utah, I believe we shall build up that in-
dustry and make it remunerative to the
people. Singing, “An Angel from on
high.” Benediction by Counselor Zella
Rees.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Singing, “How
firm a foundation.” Prayer by Bishop


Jansen. Singing “Zion stands with hills
surrounded.” Minutes read and accepted.
The following presidents reported their
wards, doing well, Sister Susannah P.
Booth, Sister Mary Watkins, Sister Mary
Jansen.
	Counselor Zella Reese, “I am thankful I
am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ, 
of Latter-day Saints.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells, “We talk
about aunt Eliza and her teachings, we
talk about the Prophet, it is also good to
talk about the good men and women of our
day.
	Father Joseph Smith Sen. used to say,
“Faith is energy, and energy is faith,” you
notice any one of great faith, can do al-
most anything. Among the women of the
world we find many with great faith and
also with faith in us. Spoke of noted
ladies of the World’s Fair, who expressed
their trust and confidence in Sister Zina
Young, in herself and others, related some
incidents. “I speak of this only to illustrate
the influence we have had with these noble
and illustrious women.”
	Explained the National Council; told in-
teresting incidents from Atlanta. “May the
Lord help us to be diligent and do our duty,
is my prayer in the name of Jesus, Amen.”
	President Zina D. H. Young: “We should
be very mindful of our children, teach
them to be helpful, things are moving fast,
the prophecies are being full-filled, spoke of
the Kindergarten; children have rights,
we are too much taken up with the things
of the world, aunt Eliza used to say, ‘If
you want anything done, don’t go to those
who have plenty of time, but those who
have energy.” The Lord delights to bless
us, if we keep humble and faithful. We
should bring up children to respect and
honor the Deity, when they do this, we
shall prosper in the Land. I hope those
who have the suffrage will manage it wise-
ly, mothers should understand politics that
they can teach their children. It is the Lord
that makes the world look towards Zion.
There is no dark valley of death for the
Saints, we know for a surety that God is.
We need this spiritual association and the
association of each other.
	President Rudgar Clawson: “I have
listened with attention to the description of
the National Organizations, it gives us in-
fluence.” Spoke of the appreciation the
Priesthood felt, for the work of the sisters.
	Counselor Charles Kelly, “I was remind-
ed by Aunt Zina’s remarks, of a testimony,
borne by an old lady, spoken in tongues,
that ‘Zion is the salt of the earth, and a
beacon-light to the world,” let your light
shine for all the world is looking toward
Zion.”
	Counselor Mary Wright, made a few
closing remarks. Singing, “Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah.” Bene-
diction by Bishop Dewey.
