[Column 2]
mark? In the blending of two living souls,
who as Father and Mother, are to be the
foundation of the building to be reared.
Here love’s cementing power is felt, and
twain become as one.
	Seldom if ever will two agree to walk
the journey of life together, as one, in the
absence of love that love which demands
the sacrifice of self to another, and without
which it cannot be done.  In love the con-
tract is made, and by love’s sacrifice alone
can it be preserved.  In all the intent, pur-
pose and object of the union, that oneness
contemplated must be preserved to realize
the highest results attainable both for those
united, and the pastertiy to whom shall be-
transmitted the virtues, characteristics and
attributes of a worthy parentage.
	Yet how frail and feeble the texture of
the material or cord that binds.  How
trifling that circumstance which sometimes
and perhaps with some oft-times tests its
strength, and disunites enough for the
enemy, discord, to enter where harmony,
should reign, and possibly wreck the hopes
that faith with works had reared.  How
subtle and insidious are the efforts of love’s
enemy to snap the cord if possible if not,
to weaken its force by sowing the seeds of
discord and strife, creating division in ways
least suspected oft-times, so that the whole
structure becomes tainted with poisonous
deadening hate, with which is made perish-
able the very foundation, before the walls
of childhood’s birth appear as progress in1
the kingdom’s rearing.
	Contemplate as one may the results of a
training from childhood to old age of one
who never heard with father and mother,
one word ot discord, who never saw the
least variance or disagreement with them
but whose very act and word proclaimed
unmistakably that love’s strong band was
never weakened, but strengthened by the
trials, sufferings, and adversities, of life.
What a lesson of example it would be for
the rising generation to follow,  and of
whom it might justly be required that honor
be given to father and mother, as unto God.
	How different from this, and what a
world of sorrow is experienced by children
when parents become indifferent to. them
and indulge in an austere, harsh, or petu-
lant manner ol speaking and acting towards
them and in this way mar if not entirely
destroy that perfect intimacy and union of
feeling that should always exist between
them All such harsh treatment, fault-,
finding, scolding and beating as is some-
times indulged in, is incompatible with
that love which parents should have, and
are in duty bound to cherish for the child.
The happiness of both parent and child
would be greatly promoted by a vigorous
exercise of that primitive faculty of the
mind, which cultivates the most perfect'im
timacy and union between them, consistent
with the law of love.
	That law in the kingdom’s discipline, is
the law of obedience, and children. reared
under such paternal influence would. be
imbued with such a spirit of obedience to
parents, that disobedience the result of
alienation and disagreement which fill the


[Column 1]
soul devoid  of  love,   would  be  banished
from the family circle and kingdom. Earthly
parents know  the  willing  and  obedient
child has love for them, and they love that
child in return, even as God recognizes our
love for Him only  in  the  keeping  of  his
commandments.
    Thus under the influence of this cement-
ing power the kingdom of  the  righteous
should be reared,  extending  from  parents
to children through all the  generations  to
come.
    Thus man in  filling the  measure  of  his
creation, by observing the laws  thereof  as
appointed unto him by his Heavenly Father,
lays a foundation here for  a  kingdom  that
shall be everlasting, and as such  become a
a part  of God’s kingdom.   All  men  who
obtain eternal life and celestial glory, are to
be Kings and  Priests  unto  God,   ruling
over their own kingdom  with  all  priestly
endowments by which it may  be  sanctified
and made meet for the Master’s use.
    Death has no power to rob  any  such  of
the products of a righteous life,  or interfere,
but for a moment as it  were,  with  eternal
increase and development.    If it had, then
death might have a  sting,   and  the  grave
might claim victory.   To   the  righteous
man who builds his family  kingdom in ac-
cord with the law of God,  death  is  only a
moment’s rest to him.    He awakes in the
morning of the resurrection to that  endless
day of perfect life which he has secured by
keeping the law of God,  which law is per-
fect, redeeming the soul of man  from death
and all its consequences  as  though  it had
never been.
    Thus man is  redeemed  and  restored to
the inheritance of all that  is of his Father’s
kingdom, as though he had never separated
from it; all of glory, of kingdom, dominion,
principalities and powers that are  eternal in
the heavens.   Man is to  be  like  God, and
those to whom he  is,  and  may  become
father, be to  him an  everlasting  kingdom
glory of and increase for ever more.
