[Column 2]
tion would insure happiness.    He desired
just such  discipline as  she had  given her
own son Conway, and he had moreover im-
plied that she was to keep  him with her in
case he did not recover.
   About two years after his return to America
news was received  that his affairs  were in
bad shape—one of  his  solicitors  had died
and the  firm had  been  dissolved,  and he
was obliged to set sail immediately—a fear-
ful foreboding possessed  Jane Harrison, do
what she would she could  not rid herself of
it, and when she received   the  news of  his
arrival at Hilliard Castle,she could scarcely
credit it.    Finally   he  wrote  that  having
wound up his  business for  the present sat-
isfactorily he was going to return very soon,
but  previous  to  coming  home  he  would
visit Italy  in  reference to  some important
matters, and also because  he wished  to see
his dear country once more.   Jane felt that
she should  have this  favorite  relative and
friend with  her again  very soon, her fears
were dispelled;  the  Major too  had  always
been very fond of  him, and they rejoiced in
anticipation of his  coming  to  remain per-
manently.    Little Edward looked  forward
with  eager  expectation and counted  over
and over the  gifts he. should  have to dis-
tribute to his cousins  and  playmates when
his father would be at  home again.
    One evening, some  weeks after,  the Ma-
jor come in from the  city, bringing letters,
and all gathered round  to  hear the news of
the absent one so dearly loved.   The letter
was  from  Maitland  (young Lord Walton)
and bore the Italian post mark.   Jane knew
the hand writing well and feared the worst;
for she  knew  Clair  would  write his  own
letters while he had the strength.   Maitland
was sorely stricken and  his words  were few,
“your cousin Clair Hilliard died at Valdag-
no,   suddenly,   of heart-failure,  without a
word: until  I can  reach England, I know
nothing of his  affairs,  keep  his  son until
you are instructed,’’signed “Maitland Wal-
ton” and adding as a postscript “my wife is
here with me we shall attend to  all details,
Clair will be buried beside his father.” 
    Mrs.  Harrison  was  so  overcome  with
grief and horror at  this  news, she found it
impossible  to speak  for some  hours,  her
husband and Sidney though thoroughly
broken up  with the sad affair,  did  all  in
their power to soothe and alleviate her men-
tal distress, giving her such comfort as was
possible;  the  children  were  not  informed
that night and indeed  only  Conway  was
told for a day or two after.   Mrs. Harrison
enlightened Edward by degrees,  making
him understand  how careful  he must be to
do whatever his father had wished and as-
suring him  that  Sidney  as well  as Uncle
Robert would take care  of his future.   In
fact Mr. Barrington  was already  teaching
him and intended preparing  him for school
or a private tutor.   The  boy  did not  real-
ize his loss, and as children do,soon regain-
ed his wonted cheerfulness.   Mrs. Harrison
true to her nature, endured  this  trying or-
deal with  the  greatest  heroism, after  the
first  severe  nervous  shock.   She  roused 
herself to the occasion and  awaited further
news,  of  the circumstances. Some  days
elapsed and no letters  came  and as she felt
there might  be  some   time  before a  mail
would  arrive;  and  as  the  ship  that  had
brought  the letters  was  to  sail  soon  for
England,  she  consulted  her husband  upon
the advisability  of Sidney’s going over and
looking  personally   into   matters.   The
Major consented  to  the  arrangement and

[Column 3]
Sidney made no  objection,  but wanted the
opinion of  his uncle in reference to what he
should do on reaching England—of course
the only thing  was  to act  according to  his
own good  judgment, and the  best  counsel
he could obtain  from men  of  standing and
recognized judicial ability.
      “You will have no such forbodings when
I set sail as  when  your cousin Clair went,
my dear aunt,” said  Sidney  Barringten,
when leaving  Rosewood, “you know how
implicitly I trust  in an  over-ruling  Provi-
dence, and  the faith we  have  is  our sup-
port whatever trials  await us.” “I have
great confidence in your faith and trust sus-
taining  you at  all  times, yet  I am aware
you will have  difficulties  to  encounter of
various kinds, your  authority to  act in be-
half  of Clair’s son  in  any  way  will be
questioned, and as you know Anna’s child-
ren  had some share  in the  estate through
the mother, and  we cannot  tell what Mait-
land may do, nor what he has already done
even,” Mrs. Harrison replied. “You will
proceed with great caution  I am sure, and
do nothing except under advisement, these
English barristers are   very shrewd and far-
seeing,  not  like  our  young  lawyers   in
America;  I wish it were  possible for me to
go with you, but, as you know, affairs here
demand my personal supervision,” said his
uncle to the nephew.   Having  said  good-
bye to the children and his aunt,  his uncle
accompanied   him  to  the  sea-side  and
lingered until he saw him on  board, giving
him many injunctions at  parting.   He had
no misgivings about  Sidney, he was a man
to be trusted anywhere with  the most im-
portant matters, and  when reaching home
he remarked to his wife, “we can rest con-
tent  Jane  leaving  all  these  affairs    of
property  and  settlements  to  Sidney  who
will do  right  whatever others may do, he
will not be swerved  by  any man’s opinion
from that which he deemsjust and equitable,
but English law and  justice are  slow,  and
we shall have  to wait the Court’s decision,
unless there should be a will found, which I
think  quite probable  considering Clair’s
presentiments concerning himself.” 
     “I hope  so, certainly, for  all  our sakes,
but especially for little Edward when I re-
call my uncle’s pride  of family and of an-
cestry,  and  think what  has  come  to  the
Hilliard race, I feel a terrible  blow has fal-
len upon his descendants;  Anna  gone and
now  Clair,  by  the by,  Elvira  who used
to serve at  the  castle  (was  there  when I
came in fact) was here the  other day and I
told her  of Clair’s death; she reminded me
of  the  superstition,  which  was  current
among the servants  of  mysterious appear-
ances, and warnings,  you remember how it
affected cousin Anna.” 
     “No, Jane, I never heard  it  before,  and
don’t believe in these  noises and warnings
at all,  but I must say  there  has been some
very peculiar phases of family  life  in the
last few years, since your advent in the old
castle for instance.  Elvira whom you speak
of,  did she marry  Harry  Walton about the
time Anna died?   He was a  good soldier,
fought bravely, I am glad she did so well.” 
     “Elvira was  very  faithful, never joined
Mrs.  Burke   in   her   rebellion    against 
authority, it  was sort  of hard  for  the ser-
vants  to  recognize  my  supervision,  they
had been used only to Burke, and were not
willing  to  submit  to  my  jurisdiction:  I
wonder  if Mrs. Burke  is  still  there;  we
shall know from Sidney all details undoubt-
edly, he will feel it a duty to itemize every-
thing.”


“I shall wait with impatience his first
letter, have you any intuitions Jane, for
you seem wonderfully gifted in bringing to
pass what you see beforehand, and albeit I
am not superstitious. I believe in your dis-
cernment, call it by what name you may,
but tell me really, will Sidney arrive safe?
Will he be successful in his undertaking?”
	“You must wait Robert, you ask too
much at once, I have great faith that Sid-
ney will succeed in accomplishing good for
Edward, but in what way I cannot tell.
Perhaps I may know something of his do-
ing s when he lands in England, at present
he has scarcely sailed out of harbor.”
	‘‘That is true Jane, but you have such
clear insight into things, a sort of prophetic
inspiration, it gives you strong mentality,
personal powers, you have inherited it
doubtless, from your antecedants, I hope
you'll bestow a little of this power upon
your offspring it must be a great factor in
your life, to know what is coming before-
hand, as you did about me, when I was ex-
pecting death at the hands of savages.”
	‘‘Robert, don't be sarcastic, it is some-
thing I never desired, and besides it is very
troublesome now and again, people think
you are queer to say the least, but one can’t
get rid of these curious manifestations. I
often see the old castle in vision as ’twere,
and hear the winds sighing as they used to
do in the park. But here comes the child-
ren for a frolic let us dismiss these gloomy
fancies, and whether we get justice or not
at the Courts, we may be just as happy, we
shall never want, nor our children.”
	‘‘No, not that, but you know Jane, the
the war has swallowed up our little fortune,
and Sidney has not even a “living” like a
Church of England preacher. We could do
with some of your uncle’s means, we shall
have the children some day, all of them if
you live.”
	This conversation was the last on the
subject, for the Major never afterwards re-
ferred to it nor did Jane, but she had a
dream, and the dream was realized there-
after.


