[Column 2]
marks of the sisters and hoped we might
profit by them. Could say in truth of the
Sisters of Sanpete that they are humble
and were therefore destined to progress.
Where the sons of God are, there the
devil is also, therefore we should be on our
guard.
	Singing, “Come let us anew,” etc.
Benediction by Bishop L. S. Anderson.
	Sister Sarah Peterson then invited all the
visitors from the neighboring settlements
and all officers of the Ephraim Relief
Society to adjourn to the Relief Society
Hall where all partook of a bounteous re-
past prepared by the home sisters.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Opened with
singing, “Guide us O, thou great
Jehovah.” Prayer by Elder Henry
Beal. Singing, “Softly beams the
sacred dawning.” Counselor Minerva W.
Snow said in thinking of Sister Young and
the great importance of the office she held,
how our hearts should go out in payer for
her, said she had just visited the Relief
Society of the Stake, and Young Ladies
Association and could see that they are
growing. Hoped we would always be
dictated in wisdom.
	Counselor Sarah Peterson felt pleased to
hear the reports of the presidents, felt as
though she could report the presidents, for
she had associated with them so much.
Advised the sisters to take care of the wheat
which President Young had called upon
them to gather and save.
	President Young said that in the first
sermon delivered by President Brigham
Young in Utah he said: “There is much
silk here,” the sisters should be interested
in this. We should study economy, teach
it to our children. Felt that the Heavens
were pleased with both organizations,
prayed that we would all hold the
principles of this work more sacred than
life itself.
	President Elmina S. Taylor said: The
Relief Society is of great importance, it is
in each branch not only to help the poor,
but also to help ourselves; fully believed that
many had kept the faith by attending their
meetings. Their hearts have been cheered
comforted and made better.
	President Canute Peterson said the sisters
report in regard to the poor being well
cared for, is interesting to us, and to our
leading brethren. No one can be truly
good to the poor unless they love Christ.
Said in regard to the franchise he would
vote for the women of Utah
	Conference adjourned for three months
with singing. Prayer by N. C. Christen-
son.
