[Column 2]
in my power, and bring them up to serve
God, and enjoy a few of the blessings which
they are entitled to.
   No wonder each generation becomes
more corrupt and wicked. They have neg-
lected to give the proper training to prevent
the children from being robbed of their
birthright before they are born. And then
children being born with the sins visited
upon them, who need the most guarded
training are the least thought of.
   I have heard it said here, that there are
few honestly born children in the colonies.
   O, I feel as if I could proclaim our glori-
ous Gospel truths, were it possible, with a
voice of thunder unto this hardened people,
and cause them to realize what greatness
and goodness is taught among the people of
God, called Latter Day Saints.
   If they would put into practice in their
daily walks and conversation, the instruc-
tion given by the true servants of God, how
great their happiness and numerous their
blessings.
   One can more fully comprehend this,
when they are brought to see the wicked-
ness here in the world, and contrast it with
the beautiful sermons put forth by our el-
ders from (Mormon) pulpits, and even the
beneficial writings in the Exponent by
leading women.
   Mothers here in the majority think they
must keep their daughters innocent in re-
gard to the marriage relations, and those
things which would keep them from going
astray, if they receive a mother’s timely
warning, and they are not few who treat
virtue as merely nothing. I have talked
with a number who have said, “I would go
to any one rather than my mother to gain
information on such subjects.” So in many
instances mothers have driven their daugh-
ters from them and destroyed that confidence
which should draw their children to them.
Those tender cords are broken which our
Heavenly Father destined to be there.
There is not so much innocence as ignorance,
and it is time the world should wake to a
sense of the false modesty that exists.
   I sincerely pray with all my heart for the
welfare of Zion, and that the Lord will con-
tinue to guide the mothers of Israel to bring
up the young and rising generation to be
honest, noble, industrious, intelligent and
faithful before the Lord, and the eyes of
the world, and not let supposed innocence
endanger their virtue; for when that is lost
then what a sad condition. Although the
sin may be forgiven the stain will never
wash away.
   The parents will be held accountable to a
certain extent for their children’s actions;
therefore it behooves them to be watchful
and prayerful in their behalf.
	My heart is with the suffrage movement,
and I hope that all the sisters will be able
to use the franchise for the best when it is
obtained. If all would listen to the advice
of noble women, they would strive to live
better lives, and their thoughts and actions
would rise to a higher and grander sphere.
They would be eager to encourage and
hasten on the rights of women. I think
women were not put on the earth to remain
silent in political matters, while their fami-
lies are brought in contact with the rascality
of the world around them; they should
have a voice, then, the condition of affairs
would be materially changed. There is a
good society formed here called the
Woman’s Temperance Council, by the wo-
men of South Australia, (who have received
full franchise). But when I attended their

[Column 3]
meeting, I found that with all their good
intent, there was something lacking, and
of course readily perceived they were de-
ficient of that benign Heavenly influence
which creates such sisterly love that is ex-
perienced among the Latter Day Saints.
They cannot accomplish the desired end by
relying on their own strength. The gospel
plan is the only system through which
these things can be successfully carried out.
I remain your sister in the Gospel.
