[Column 2]
greets the explorer of 1892, containing por-
tions of Zechariah and Malachi, is considered
to be the oldest copy extant, and to have
been copied from the original Septuagint.
	Another papyrus-roll? It is the long-lost,
spurious Gospel of St. Peter, valuable now
as corroborative evidence of the narratives
of the evangelists. A complete picture of
the varied society in the Fayoum of the
golden days of the Ptolemies is afforded by
the rescued papyri from Gurob; the voca-
bulary of the Septuagint contains many of
the words peculiar to them.
	Do my fair readers wish for entertaining
monograms of life in Athens 250 years B.
C.? Egypt gives up the poems of Herodes,
a local poet, who introduces a dialogue be-
tween two dames anent servant-girl afflict-
ions. fashions, and the best bargains.
	The affluent mound of Naukratis, the
site of the brilliant Greek emporium in
Egypt prior to Alexandria, 1000 by 500
yards, at the spade’s bidding has given us
material for “a very important advance in
our knowledge of the early Greek world ”
as Professor Middleton remarked.
	A headless Apollo, most diminutive, from
Naukratis, now in Boston, is fully recognized as a
prototype of the famous Apollo of Thera in the
museum at Athens.
	The remains of the Temple of Apollo
vividly recalls details of the Erectheum in
Athens; hundreds of broken vases and bowls
show, as nowhere else, the development of
the early Ionic alphabet; a vast collection of
Greek tools of 600 B. C. exceeds all other
finds in number and variety; the site of the
first scarab factory yet discoverd reveals
the entire process of fabrication of that cu-
rious emblem of immortality to the ancient
Egyptain. “The Egyptian Princess” of
Ebers became history as well as romance
when the dull mound exposed its treasures.
		*	*	*	*	*
	That wonderful woman, Queen Hatasu,
built the most unique temple in all Egypt,
and to-day Dr. Naville’s pickaxes and
spades are finishing its excavation. The
woman who could order cut, made, en-
graved, gold-tipped, and set up at Karnak
the two largest and finest of all the obelisks,
aud have her order executed within seven
months’ time, was the Pharaoh before all
others to erect this terraced temple. On
the walls of the south division of the mid-
dle colonnade her depicted naval expedi-
tion to Punt was found by Mariette; while
Naville has recently disclosed on the walls
of the northern division a history of Hatasu
—her birth, education enthronment.—
The New Cycle.


