WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
FOREIGN LETTER.
	HOBART TASMANIA, June 15, 1895.
	Editor Woman’s Exponent:—I have
long been thinking of writing a short letter
to the Exponent to express my gratefulness
for sending it to me, which is truly appreci-
ated. and is very instructive and beneficial;
but almost feared that I would be trespass-
ing upon your valuable space. Many
others here have read it. and think it an
excellent paper.
   Since I have been in this land, I have be-
held many things that do not seem pleasant
to one that has been reared in the vales of
Mormon Utah.
   It is heart-rending to witness the harsh-
ness and cruelty of parents towards chil-
dren, and the negligence of their support
and instruction. Large families brought
into the world without knowing scarcely
where the food and clothing will come
from, and are thrown on to the world to
beg for a living. Some of the most cruel 
things, from time to time are brought under
my observation, one I will mention:
   I saw some little children standing around
the door of a “public house,” crying on a
very cold day, bare-headed, and bare-footed,
with scarcely enough clothing on to cover
them; two little ones not more than two
and three years old with a red handkerchief
tied up. The mother finally came to the
door staggering from drink. The two little
ones said, crying bitterly, as if nearly
starved, “Mamma he won’t give us a bit
of bread.” She viciously took the bread
from the little boy, which he had evidently
been begging for, and went off with it.
The little boy leaned back against the house
as if disheartened.
	This, with many other things I have
witnessed has almost caused me to go and
weep. To think of the dear little children
so helpless within themselves, who might
be beautiful and noble if cared for tenderly.
   I will not attempt to relate any other in-
stances, but they occur every day among
those people who constantly visit “public
houses.” How my heart aches for the
the poor little children. How grand, if
they could only be cared for as our little
children are in Zion. May our Heavenly
Father forbid that any of the mothers in
Israel, should ever, so sadly neglect their
innocent offspring that He has so graciously
given them, and entrusted to their care.
When I see the mother so brutal I feel as
if I could take the little things, if it were

