RUBY LAMONT.’


[Column 1]
THE FAMILY KINGDOM.
	It is easy for some to fall in love with
pretty faces, with speaking sparkling eyes
that flash the inspiration of the soul, and
kindle into fires unquenchable easy to love
the beauty of dress, and the fascinating
manners that captivate and fill with delight
and admiration the beholder, until filled
with desire to possess such loveliness but
who of all those thus enamored stop to seri-
ously contemplate the arduous labors, the
responsible duties that attach, and must be
assumed by those who seek to make these
pleasures all their own? Who is it that
seeks to fathom the depths of obligations
accepted by assuming family ties, patriarchal
duties, kingly powers, and priestly admin-
stration of spiritualities. Who can say
that they love these more dearly than all
the charms of this life, or even life itself,
outside of those desirable and perpetual ac-
quisitions,—those lasting endowments.
	The family is the foundation of kingdom,
of eternal dominion, to those who rear the
structure upon eternal principles, and make
truth and righteousness, the cement with
which to bind its rising walls. Walls con-
structed of this material will never crumble
nor decay. Perpetuity is sought after by
the wise and skillful builder, and it can be
found only when reared after the pattern of
that kingdom which is an everlasting king-
dom, that which shall never pass away.
it is written that all other kingdoms shall
be broken in pieces.
	It requires, and we should seek for the
most enduring element with which to build
a house that is to be “eternal in the
heavens.” In faith, hope and charity, it is
found these three we are told shall abide
when others shall have passed away, and
the greatest of these is charity, which is
the love of God. Here then we find that
love is the most enduring element of an
everlasting or future kingdom, is the main
ingredient that must be wrought into the
entire structure to preserve it from decay.
	Where shall this love begin its mighty

