		EX-BAILIE FARQUHAR.
	Another Ayrshire boy,ex- Bailie John Farquhar,
who one morning, in the year 1843, might have
been seen trudging into the city from Kilmar-
nock, footsore, but with a Whittington like de-
termination to make his mark, is also a Free
Educationist candidate	Beginning by serving
his apprenticeship “behind the counter,” he ul-
timately became one of our most successful mer-
chants. Perhaps his first public appearance was
in connection with the getting of shop hours
shortened from 9 p. m. till 8 p. m. to enable him-
self and other lads to attend the Andersonian
College. In matters of temperance particularly
with regard to providing counter-attractions to
the public-houses, he has always been interested,
having as far gone as thirty five years ago taken
an active part in establishing schools for ap
prentices in the North-Western district of the
city, and been mainly instrumental in the forma-
tion of a reading-room in the Milton Hall, a site
now occupied by the Grand Theatre. In their
wisdom the Ninth Ward saw fit in the year 1874
to return Mr. Farquhar as one of their represen-
tatives on the Town Council, a position which he
held for nine years, during six of which he oc-
cupied the dignified post of Magistrate. Since
his retirement from the Council, he represents

[column 3]
that body on the Juvenile Delinquency Board, is a
member of the Merchants’ House and the Buch-
anan Institution, and a Justice of the Peace. He
is now practically retired from business, and
seeks to employ his leisure in educational mat-
ters.
	In a letter to his sister he says, “I have
been appointed one of Her Majesty’s Justice’s
of the Peace for the County, which means
magistrate for life.”
As Sister Steel has no family and no relatives
here, it was quite proper their friends who
know them intimately and have such high
respect for them should accord them this
honor which is their just due.
	That they may live to do the work they
desire and rejoice in the blessings of the
gospel of peace and salvation, and continue
in health and prosperity, is the sincere wish
of the writer who is a personal friend and
ardent admirer of the integrity and up-
rightness of these dear old Scotch friends.

“There’s a bliss beyond all that the minstrel has
		told,
	When two, that are linked in one heavenly tie,
With heart never changing, and brow never cold,
	Love oh thro’ all ills, and love on till they die.”
							E. B. W.


