[Column 2]
the question was in the noted Blythe case
in California in 1892.
	“On the same subject, and passing directly
upon the qualifications of voters, the su-
preme court of Illinois, in the case of Keitz
vs. Behreusmeyer, reported in the 125th
Ills., says that whenever a woman, alien
born, who might be naturalized, is in a
state of marriage to a citizen, whether his
citizenship existed at the passage of the act
of Congress of February 18, 1855, or before
or after the marriage, she becomes by that
fact a citizen also and this citizenship is
not lost by the subsequent death of her hus-
band and her afterwards marrying an alien.
	“By the rulings referred to, the matter ap-
pears to be settled beyond all controversy.
The United States Supreme Court is quite
clear upon the question in the case of Kelly
vs. Owens, above referred to, laying down
the rule that the act of Congress of Febru-
ary 10, 1855, which declares “that any wo-
man who might lawfully be naturalized
under the existing laws, married, or who
shall be married to a citizen of the United
States, shall be deemed and taken to be a
citizen,” confers the privileges of citizen-
ship upon women married to citizens of the
United States, if they are of the class of
persons for whose naturalization the previ-
ous acts of Congress provide. The court
states that the terms “married,” or “who
shall be married,” in the act, do not refer
to the time when the ceremony of marriage
is celebrated, but to a state of marriage
and that they mean that whenever a woman,
who under previous acts might be natural-
zed, is in a state of marriage to a citizens
she becomes, by that fact, a citizen also.
His citizenship, whenever it exists, confer,
citizenship upon her.”
	It is to be hoped that the women of this
Territory will study the subject of voting,
and certainly so far as legality is concerned,
and be sure beyond the shadow of a doubt,
that they are doing right. It is such a new
departure, that one need not be embarrassed
in asking for imformation and look to it
that it is positively reliable. It is the firm
belief of the writer that women will not
neglect home duties to attend to public
affairs unless in very exceptional cases,
which frequently occur (as is well known)
in other ways, and for other ends, apart
from suffrage.
	The Deseret Evening News of July 27th,
mentions leading journals East and West as
arguing that women cannot vote at the No-
vember election, and gives the opinion ex-
pressed by the New York Sun (Democratic)
thus:
	“On this hypothesis the Sun advises the
women who want to avoid interference with
the admission of the territory to keep away
from the polls in November. The Repub-
lican San Francisco Chronicle takes a similar
stand, insisting that the adoption of a con-
stitution is only one step in the process of
state-making, and until Utah is fully and
completely a State it must be and remain
under the control of Congress, and be gov-
erned by its laws, which do not recognize
female suffrage in the Territory. As to the
fact that certain officials are to be elected to
become State officers, it is argued that they
are to be chosen by the legal voters of the
Territory, and that the women must wait
until the first State election before they can
exercise the right of suffrage.
	Certainly the women who have been
granted the suffrage in the new State that
is to have the best interests of all at heart,
will abide by the legal decision which must


be given by proper authority to guide the
people in what shall determine the future
prosperity of this great and growing com-
monwealth for the next few years at least.
There should be positive certainty as to the
course to be pursued and for this decision
men will be responsible, because women
can have no actual knowledge on the subject.
It is a serious question, and the best and
highest judicial authority, should in our
humble opinion, determine and announce
the solution of this problem over which
there is at present much controversy.
	As the Primaries are to be held very soon
and as this is the first step towards Con-
ventions for nominating candidates, no time
ought to be lost in quibbling but the specific
course in relation to women voting marked
out, that there may be no mistakes made or
any hindrances in the way of “a fair field
and fair play.”


