[Vol33 | April 1946 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]
An  Aria  for  Easter 
Vesta  P.  Crawford 
"I  know  that  my  redeemer  liveth  .  .  .  ."  (Job.  19:25) 
THE  greatest  words  in  all  the 
world,  the  most  magnificent 
music— this    has    been    said 
for  almost  two  hundred  years  by  the 
millions  who  have  heard  the  fault- 
less aria  from  Handel's  Messiah. 
Particularly,  in  a  time  of  change 
and  uncertainty,  it  is  not  surprising 
that  so  many  Christian  people  are 
finding  new  beauty  and  new  strength 
in  this  Easter  message.  The  words 
carry  the  simple,  eternal  beauty  of 
scripture,  *'I  know  that  my  redeemer 
liveth,  and  that  he  shall  stand  at 
the  latter  day  upon  the  earth  .  .  .  ." 
In  these  phrases  there  is  no  falter- 
ing, no  question.  Here  is  truth  for 
the  ages,  for  all  who  have  doubted, 
for  all  who  have  believed. 
The  music  is  a  treasure  that  glows 
with  brighter  radiance  through  the 
years.  Who  was  the  matchless  mu- 
sician, the  man  Handel,  who  wrote 
this  lofty  and  sacred  music,  who 
touched  the  utmost  heights  of  com- 
position? 
In  the  year  1685,  a  boy  was  born 
in  Halle,  Germany.  His  father  said 
at  once,  "This  child  must  be  a  law- 
yer. The  shape  of  his  head  shows 
that  he  will  have  a  great  mind." 
His  was  a  great  mind,  but  not  des- 
tined for  the  practice  of  law.  Per- 
haps, if  he  had  become  a  lawyer,  his 
name  might  long  ago  have  been  for- 
gotten. Now,  so  long  as  music  is 
repeated  in  the  world,  the  name  of 
George  Frederick  Handel  will  be 
imperishable. 
The  young  musician  learned  to 
play  the  harpsichord  when  he  was 
only  four  years  old  and  he  was  really 
no  more  than  a  child  when  he  mas- 
tered the  keys  of  the  magnificent 
church  organ  in  the  Halle  cathedral. 
This  was  the  beginning  of  Handel's 
devotion  to  organ  music.  ''The  tones 
of  the  organ,"  he  said,  "bring  har- 
monies from  the  immortals,  and 
surely  the  angels  are  near  when  the 
great  organ  sings  its  theme  of 
praise." 
The  violin  was  the  next  instru- 
ment mastered  by  Handel.  He 
turned,  then,  to  composition  and 
wrote  several  operas  in  the  style 
used  by  the  Italians  of  his  day.  After 
his  first  opera  was  produced  in  Lon- 
don, in  1711,  Handel  was  so  royally 
welcomed  that  he  felt  himself  being 
adopted  by  the  music-loving  people 
of  "green  and  rainy"  England. 
It  was  not  long  before  the  Ger- 
man-born Handel  became  court  mu- 
sician to  the  King  of  England. 
George  the  First  had  a  beautiful 
boat  equipped  with  throne  chairs. 
The  boat  sailed  up  and  down  the 
river  Thames  carrying  the  King  of 
England  and  Handel,  the  BCing  of 
Music.  "Water  Music"  was  the 
name  given  to  the  compositions  that 
Handel  played  for  the  King  as  their 
boat  plied  the  famous  river. 
OANDEL,  however,  was  seeking  a 
medium  greater  than  solitary 
compositions,  greater,  even,  than 
operas.  There  was  in  his  nature  a 
deep  spiritual  yearning  that  final- 
Page  229

230 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1946 
A  Perry  Picture 
GEORGE  FREDERICK  HANDEL 
ly  found  expression  in  writing  ora- 
torios. An  oratorio  resembles  an  op- 
era in  its  telling  of  a  dramatic  story 
to  the  accompaniment  of  music. 
The  oratorio,  however,  is  usually 
based  upon  a  sacred  theme  and  the 
message  of  inspiration  is  delivered 
without  a  scenic  background,  with- 
out acting,  and  without  costumes. 
The  chorus,  the  orchestra,  and  the 
solo  singers  perform  in  magnificent 
unity.  Sometimes,  in  a  vast  audi- 
ence, you  may  see  some  of  the  listen- 
ers close  their  eyes  in  order  that  the 
message  may  come  to  them  entirely 
through  the  medium  of  music. 
Handel's  oratorio,  using  a  Bibhcal 
text,  possessed  a  lofty  grandeur  new 
to  the  world  of  music.  His  Israel  in 
Egypty  Saul,  and  others,  won  the 
plaudits  of  the  English  nation.  But 
it  was  the  Messiah  that  held  the  peo- 
ple speechless  with  its  strength  and 
beauty.  Here,  the  story  of  the  life 
of  Jesus  is  told  in  the  matchless  poet- 
ry of  the  Bible,  and  the  music  car- 
ries the  words  sublimely  as  clouds 
are  carried  across  the  blue  heavens. 
It  is  said  that  when  the  oratorio 
was  completed,  George  Frederick 
Handel  stood  in  his  room,  a  sheaf  of 
papers  in  his  hands.  Tears  streamed 
down  his  face.  The  door  slowly 
opened  and  a  servant  entered.  Han- 
del turned  and  cried  out,  "I  thought 
I  did  see  all  heaven  before  me  and 
the  great  God  himself." 
The  gifted  composer  was  then 
fifty-six  years  old  and  this  was  the 
climax  of  his  career,  the  high  point 
of  achievement.  Although  he  could 
not  then  foresee  the  future,  he  rea- 
lized, to  some  extent  at  least,  that 
he  had  written  immortal  music. 
The  narrative  of  the  Messiah  be- 
gins with  the  ancient  prophecy, 
"Comfort  ye,  comfort  ye  my  people 
.  .  .  Speak  ye  comfortably  to  Jerusa- 
lem . . .  The  voice  of  him  that  crieth 
in  the  wilderness."  (Isaiah  40:1-3). 
These  words  are  sung  by  the 
tenor.  The  chorus  takes  up  the  re- 
frain, ''And  the  glory  of  tiie  Lord 
shall  be  revealed  .  .  .  ." 
The  first  part  of  the  oratorio  tells 
the  story  of  the  birth  of  Jesus,  using 
the  words  of  St.  Luke  to  describe 
the  shepherds  "abiding  in  the  field." 
With  a  joyous  refrain,  the  chorus  re- 
peats the  glowing  words,  "Unto  us 
a  child  is  bom,  unto  us  a  son  is  giv- 
en ..  .  and  the  government  shall  be 
upon  his  shoulder  .  .  .  ." 
But  the  joyous  phrases  of  the  holy 
birth  fade  away  as  the  story  of 
Christ's  life  upon  earth  is  unfolded. 
With  shadowed  intonations,  the  al- 
to soloist  sings  the  heart-breaking 
aria,  "He  is  despised  and  rejected 
of  men;  a  man  of  sonows,  and  ac- 
quainted with  grief  ....'*    And  the

AN  ARIA  FOR  EASTER 
231 
tenor  takes  up  the  dark  measures, 
''Behold  and  see  if  there  be  any  sor- 
row Hke  unto  his  sorrow  .  .  .  ." 
'T^HEN,  from  the  shadows  that  pre- 
cede the  dawn,  there  comes  the 
message  of  the  resurrection,  the 
rhythm  of  new  hfe,  the  measure  of 
springtime,  the  eternal  resurgence  of 
the  spirit. 
In  words  more  clear  than  the  tones 
of  a  bell,  more  lucid  than  falling 
water,  the  soprano  sings,  *1  know 
that  my  redeemer  liveth,  and  that 
he  shall  stand  at  the  latter  day  upon 
the  earth   " 
This  is  the  beloved  Easter  aria, 
words  of  hope  and  comfort,  words 
that  have  sustained  the  followers  of 
Christ  for  centuries.  These  are  the 
Biblical  words  that  were  treasured 
long  before  Handel  set  them  to  mu- 
sic. Yet,  with  Handel's  spacious  tal- 
ent, these  words  have  acquired  an 
added  luster,  a  brighter  illumination. 
The  exquisite  words  are  sung  against 
a  background  of  violin  music  more 
elusive  and  beautiful  than  the  gray 
dawn  shadows  that  dissolve  into  the 
opal  morning.  One  feels  the  inef- 
fable unity  of  this  earth,  its  past,  its 
present,  and  the  ages  to  come.  One 
feels  that  this  earth  is  but  a  part  of 
the  vastness  of  creation. 
The  treasured  words  of  the  Easter 
aria  fall  in  silver  cadence,  each  note 
a  jewel.  "But  now  is  Christ  risen 
from  the  dead,  the  first  fruits  of  them 
that  slept." 
It  is  a  majestic  thing  to  remember 
that  when  Handel  was  an  old  man 
and  the  tide  of  his  health  was  eb- 
bing low,  he  played  the  organ  at 
one  of  the  numerous  renditions  of 
A  Perry  Picture 
HANDEL  AND  GEORGE  I  OF  ENGLAND 
From  a  Painting  by  Hamman

232 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1946 
the  Messiah  in  England.  He  had 
been  bhnd  for  many  years,  but  he 
could  not  give  up  his  music.  Espe- 
cially he  could  not  live  without 
touching  the  organ  keys  to  make 
them  speak  the  message  of  faith  and 
hope. 
On  this  occasion,  the  skilled  hands 
of  the  master  musician  stopped  in 
the  middle  of  a  phrase.  He  trembled 
and  almost  fell  from  the  seat.  In  a 
few  moments  he  recovered  his  pow- 
ers and  finished  playing  the  ac- 
companiment with  his  accustomed 
grandeur.  But  that  was  the  last  time 
his  fingers  touched  an  organ.  On 
Saturday,  April  14,  1759,  early 
in  the  morning,  the  man  who  com- 
posed the  Messiah  was  himself 
wrapped  in  sleep.  He  lies  with  Eng- 
land's honored  ones  in  the  vast 
crypts  of  Westminster  Abbey.  His 
spirit  lives  forever  in  his  unrivalled 
music. 
WHEN  THE  CHOIR  BROADCASTS 
Ruth  H.  Chadwick 
The  Temple  of  God  stands  within  my  walls. 
Lifting  its  spires  to  heaven  above, 
Wliile  Angel  Moroni's  clarion  calls 
Proclaim  the  gospel  of  love. 
It  comes  on  the  wings  of  music  and  song, 
As  the  organ's  rhythmic  harmonies 
Sustain  the  cadenced  tones  and  prolong 
The  celestial  melodies. 
It  rises  in  splendor  as  each  vibrant  chord 
Mingles  with  praise  from  the  choir  unseen, 
To  swell  in  hosannas  to  our  Lord— 
And  my  reverent  heart  is  serene!

Faith  Is  a  Heritage 
Chiistie  Lund  Coles 
CHAPTER      I 
ENID  piled  her  starched  clothes  But  Enid  did  not  let  her  neigh- 
on  the  wooden  washboard  and  bor's  pessimism  spoil  her  day.  She 
brushed  a  wayward  curl  from  was  twenty-three,  she  had  a  husband 
her  forehead.  Then  she  stepped  whom  she  loved  and  who  loved  her. 
noiselessly  to  the  door  leading  to  the  She  was  strong  and  well  and  had  the 
front  room  which  was  both  living-  most  beautiful  baby  in  the  world  . .  . 
room  and  bedroom.  She  smiled  She  thought  of  these  things  as  she 
gently  at  the  sight  of  her  small  cleaned  up  the  large,  old-fashioned 
daughter  sleeping  soundly,  one  arm  kitchen  before  starting  to  set  the 
thrown  above  a  tousled,  dark  head.  table.     Yet,  catching  herself  paus- 
'Tou  Angel,"  she  whispered,  kiss-  ing  in  her  work,  she  thought,  ''I  have 
ing  the   pink   cheek.    Rising,    she  no    time    to    be    dreaming— even 
placed  her  hands  on  her  hips  to  say,  though  it  is  wise  to  be  counting  my 
'Tm  thinking  you  get  to  look  more  blessings.    I  must  dress  Sharon  and 
like  your  father  every  minute."  feed  her  so  she  will  be  sweet  for  her 
As  she  went  out  into  the  April  adoring  Daddy." 
sunshine,  with  the  blue  skies  over-  There  was  none  too  much  time, 
head  and  the  spring  sunlight  falling  she  was  just  wiping  the  last  crumb 
upon    the    expectant    earth,     she  from  the  small  girl's  mouth  when 
laughed  with  the  sheer  joy  of  living,  g^g  heard  Tom's  footsteps  on    the 
A  song  found  her  lips  as  she  took  porch  .  .  .she  would  know  the  swift, 
each  piece  of  clothing,  shook  it,  then  strong  sound  of  them  any  place, 
pinned  it  upon  the  clothesline.    A  ^^^  hurriedly  took  Sharon  up  and 
neighbor,  hangmg  clothes  across  a  ^^^^^^  ^^^^^^  ^^  ^^^^  ^-^  ^,  he 
high    board    fence,    called,      One  ^^^^  .^          ^        ^^^  ^^^^  ^^^ 
thing,  It  11  soon  dry  in  this  sunshine.  ^^.j.         Her  husband,   her   Tom, 
Enid^  called  back.     Yes,  isn  t  it  ^^^  ^^^^^ 
"^  
The'o'lher  woman  looked  at  her  .    ''?"^^V^""''' ^\''"'^,  \'';  't 
rather  sharply,  "I  can't  say  it's  so  i"§  ^er  chm  in  his  hand  to  tilt  her 
wonderful.    Mud  to  be  tracked  in  face  upward  for  his  kiss.    Then,  to 
and  out  of  the  house  . .  .this  sudden  ^he  baby.     If  it  isn  t  my    big  girl, 
thaw.    Wait  till  your  baby  can  run  ^ome  here,  you  blue-eyed  rascal, 
in  and  out  by  herself.    And  wait  till  ''Wonder  where  she    gets    those 
you  get  a  couple  more  to  wash  and  beautiful  blue  eyes?"    Enid    asked 
iron  for."    Then,  as  a  last  gloomy  archly,  looking  at  him  from  under 
thought,  she  added,  as  she  turned  to  dark,  heavy  lashes, 
enter  the  house,  'There's  death  in  ''Now  I  wouldn't  have  the  slight- 
this  weather,  too,  if  you  ask  me."  est  idea,"  he   returned  laughingly. 
Page  233