[Vol33 | April 1946 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Article | Title: Voice of Cumorah Alice Morrey Bailey]
Alice  Money  Bailey 
There  is  an  hour  of  darkness  in  the  night 
Beyond  reflected  rays  of  yesterday, 
Too  early  yet  to  catch  the  coming  light 
Refracted  from  tomorrow's  newest  ray. 
THE  quotation,  'The  darkest 
hour  is  just  before  the  dawn/' 
is  more  than  a  matter  of  night 
and  day,  more  than  a  certain  num- 
ber of  hours  each  of  hght  and  dark- 
ness in  the  minds  of  men.  This  bit 
,  of  philosophy  was  perhaps  created  to 
hft  the  heart,  heavy  with  burdens, 
and  to  shed  the  hght  of  hope  into 
the  darkness  of  despair. 
The  "darkest  hour"  in  the  hves  of 
men  is  made  up  of  various  ingredi- 
ents, not  the  least  of  which  is  dis- 
couragement and  self-doubt  at  the 
soundless  falling  of  carefully  built 
structures  of  hope,  when  one  stands 
in  the  ruins  of  a  cherished  theory,  or 
counts  the  cost  of  time  and  effort 
that  are  now  rubble  at  his  feet. 
Pasteur,  Koch— all  the  truth-seek- 
ers in  the  field  of  science  are  famil- 
iar with  this  form  of  darkness. 
Banting,  an  obscure  Canadian  doc- 
tor was  one  of  these. 
February  ii,  1922,  Fred  Banting 
was  in  his  laboratory  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Toronto.  With  him  were 
two  men.  One  was  Charlie  Best, 
his  faithful  helper  through  months 
and  weeks  of  grilling  research, 
nights  of  sleeplessness,  and  days  of 
anxiety,  while  they  had  pursued  an 
elusive,  life-saving  truth  that  had 
come  to  Dr.  Banting  in  a  flash  of  in- 
spiration during  the  night  of  Octo- 
ber 30,  two  years  before.  The  other 
man  was  Joe  Gilchrist,  Dr.  Bant- 
ing's dear  friend,  who  was  dying  the 
slow,  starving  death  of  diabetes.  This 
night  was  the  culminating  point,  the 
night  when  their  long  fight  was  to 
be  given  the  test— whether  this  new 
medicine  would  work  on  humans  as 
well  as  it  did  on  dogs.  No  one  but  a 
desperately  sick  man  would  have 
submitted  to  that  test,  for  its  failure 
might  mean  death. 
They  fed  him  an  ounce  of  pure 
glucose  and  tested  his  breath  to  see 
if  his  body  would  burn  it.  Of  course 
it  wouldn't!  They  shot  the  new 
medicine  in  with  a  hypodermic,  and 
waited— one  hour,  two  hours.  Noth- 
ing happened.  Banting  was  sick  at 
heart.  His  medicine  had  failed.  It 
was  the  old  story!  What  would 
work  on  dogs  might  not  work  on  hu- 
mans. Not  daring  to  look  at  Joe,  he 
left  to  catch  a  train. 
*   «   «   * 
A  different  type  of  "darkest  hour" 
often  comes  to  one  who  has 
fought  too  hard  for  some  prize,  has 
paid  too  high  a  cost,  and,  having  at- 
tained it,  finds  that  it  is  dust  and 
ashes  in  his  hands.  In  this  category 
are  all  who  forfeit  morality,  virtue, 
or  honesty  for  people,  possessions,  or 
causes— things  that  may  seem  in  and 
of  themselves  to  be  fine  and  desir- 
able. 
And  yet  "The  leopard  never 
changes  his  spots,"  is  a  human  doc- 
trine, foreign  to  the  teachings  of  One 
who  died  between  two  thieves. 
Those  who  have  gone  beyond^  the 
Page  221

222  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1946 
moral  boundaries  are  most  in  need  OIGHTEOUS  indignation  at  un- 
of  the  helping   hand.    They   have  just  treatment  is  justifiable,  but 
lost  the  power  to  discern  right  from  it  is  effective  only  when  something 
wrong;  they  are  most  dependent  up-  can  be  done  to  relieve  the  situation, 
on  the  clear  and  unselfish  thinking  to  undo  the  wrong, 
of  others,  after  floundering  in  a  sea 
of  confused  values.  Henry  Collins  Brown  sat  in  the 
Creative   people   are  particularly  hopelessness  of  an    insane    asylum 
prey  to  moods  of  exhilaration  or  de-  contemplating  suicide.    He  felt  that 
spondency,  so  much  so  that  fits  of  death  was  a  door  behind  which  were 
"temperament"    are     expected    of  peace  and  release  from  the  mental 
them.   Perhaps  it  is  because  emotion  tortures  he  was  suffering.    He  felt 
is  an  integral  part   of   creativeness,  that  suicide  was  the  knob  to  that 
and  emotion  is  by  turns  a  flatterer  door;  that  he  had  the  power  to  turn 
and  a  depressant,  but  never  a  re-  it,  with  every  reason  to  do  so,  and 
liable    pair    of    spectacles    through  no  good  reason  not  to. 
which  an  artist  may  view  his  own  He  had  lost  his  hfework.    He  had 
creation.  formerly  been  curator  and  founder 
of  the  Museum  of  the  City  of  New 
Robert  Louis  Stevenson,  at  Sher-  York,  into  which  position  he  had 
ryvore,      Bournemouth,      England,  put  the  best  years  of  his  hfe.  He  had 
once  wrote  feverishly  for  three  days  fought  for  the  preservation  of  valu- 
on  a  new  story  that  had  come  to  him  able  historical  relics,  for  a  home  in 
in  a  dream— ten  thousand  words  a  which  to  collect  and  care  for  them, 
day,  while  the  household  went  about  He  had  delivered  many  learned  lec- 
on  tip-toe.    He  was  sure  he  had  a  tures  and  solicited    funds    for    the 
masterpiece,  and,  when  it  was  fin-  cause.    For  many  years  he  had  strug- 
ished,  called  his  wife  and  her  son,  gled  against  the  indifference  of  peo- 
Lloyd  Osbourne,  in  and  read  them  pie  until  he  had  accomplished  his 
the   manuscript  with    an   intensity  aim.     He  knew   that,    whether   he 
that  made  shivers  run  up  and  down  jived  or  died,  the  museum  was  estab- 
Lloyd's    spine.     \Vlien     Stevenson  lished  and  the  work  would  go  on, 
came  to  the  end,  gazing  up  at  them  and  he  was  very  happy, 
in  trmmph  and  self-satisfaction,  he  j^  ^^^^  ^Yiqu  that  the  Museum  of- 
waited  for  the  outbreak  of  enthusi-  ^-^^^  decided  he  was  too  old  for  the 
asm  from  his  wife,  whose  fine  pow-  job-he  was  sixty-five-and  removed 
ers  of  criticism  and  analysis  he  relied  -^^-^^^  supplanting  him  with  a  "popin- 
^P^"-  jay"  from  the  West,  who  had  never 
''Robert,    you    have    missed    the  seen  New  York,  and  who  affronted 
whole  point,"    she    said.     'Tou Ve  the  cultivated  patrons  of  the  insti- 
missed  the  whole  allegor)'."  tution.    Dr.  Brown  went  down  un- 
Stevenson  was  disappointed  and  der  the  weight  of  these  injustices  and 
angry,   and    said    things    that    sent  from  overwork.    He  believed  there 
Lloyd  trembling  from  the  room,  and  was  nothing  left  to  live  for;  it  was 
his  mother  in  tears  to  her  apartment,  too  late  to  start  over  again,  and  this 
*  *  *  *                       '  seemed  to  be  the  end.

BEFORE  THE  DAWN 
223 
These  are  isolated  pictures  of 
seemingly  different  human  crises, 
but  they  have  some  things  in  com- 
mon, as  all  human  beings  have  cer- 
tain things  in  common.  As  mortal 
beings,  all  people  are  subject  to  dis- 
appointments and  even  defeats 
which  are  inevitably  to  be  met  in  one 
form  or  another  during  our  sojourn 
upon  the  earth.  The  bottom  drops 
out  of  the  bucket  of  hope.  Nature 
betrays  the  young;  death  assails  se- 
curity. Each  man  may  look  at  his 
neighbor  with  envy,  thinking  he  sees 
a  man  with  no  burdens,  no  problems. 
The  soldier  returning  with  the  loss 
of  an  eye  or  an  arm  does  not  see 
spiritual  death,  mental  and  moral 
cripples,  in  the  physically  whole. 
The  beautiful  dreams  of  aspiring 
souls— peace,  brotherhood,  wise  par- 
enthood, unselfish  love  and  religious 
perfection— are  more  often  ideals  to 
strive  toward  rather  than  realities 
which  are  ours.  Nevertheless,  they 
must  be  striven  for,  because  they 
can  be  achieved,  and  simply,  too,  by 
obedience  to  divine  and  eternal  laws 
of  truth. 
''He  that  loseth  his  life  shall  find 
it,''  said  Jesus.  Death  was  not  the 
end  for  him,  but  a  new  and  glorious 
beginning.  The  morning  of  the  res- 
urrection was  sweet  and  fair.  The 
brightest  hour  in  human  history  was 
when  Mary,  stooping  to  peer  into 
the  tomb,  saw  the  empty  linens  of 
death,  the  angels  robed  in  white  at 
the  foot  and  head  of  the  tomb,  and 
when  Jesus  revealed  himself  to  her, 
asking:  "Woman,  why  "weepest 
thou?"  (John  20:11-16). 
The  Son  of  Man  was  not  only  per- 
sonally victorious  over  the  great 
enemy  of  life  on  earth,  he  laid  a  pat- 
tern through  death  to  life  again  that 
every    man    can    and    will    follow. 
Moreover,  the  words  of  his  wisdom, 
that  fell  some  two  thousand  years 
ago  on  the  ears  of  herdsmen  and 
farmers,  high  priests  and  money- 
changers, are  still  the  patterns  of  wise 
living,  and  in  no  less  measure  ap- 
plicable to  men  of  today.  .  .  .  "And 
ye  shall  know  the  truth,  and  the 
truth  shall  make  you  free,"  he  told 
them  (John  8:32). 
*  #  *  * 
PHARLES  Banting  had  been  do- 
ing just  that— seeking  the  truth 
to  make  men  free.  His  story  might 
well  have  ended  on  that  night  of  Sep- 
tember 11,  1922.  The  short  time 
and  sparse  materials  allotted  to  him 
for  his  research  had  been  used  long 
since.  Any  day  now  he  would  be 
dismissed  by  the  more  important 
heads  of  the  institution,  who  had  no 
patience  with  his  harebrained  idea 
anyhow.  His  thoughts  were  dark 
with  discouragement  as  he  boarded 
the  train  to  go  to  his  home. 
He  didn't  know  that  he  had  left 
too  soon,  that,  back  in  Toronto, 
Charlie  Best  was  saying:  "Let's 
have  another  go  at  it,  Joe,"  and  that 
Joe  was  breathing  much  better,  that 
suddenly,  after  months,  his  head  was 
clear  again  and  his  legs  had  lost  their 
heaviness— that  he  was  able  to  eat  a 
good  supper,  after  which  he  took  a 
stroll,  grinning  and  "walking  on 
air,"  as  he  put  it.  By  the  time  of 
Banting's  arrival  at  his  home  the 
news  had  been  telephoned,  and 
Banting  was  given  the  message  that 
freed  millions  from  death  by  dia- 
betes—for Banting  had  discovered 
insulin. 
So  narrow  is  the  margin  between 
success  and  failure!    So  small  is  the