[Vol33 | April 1946 | Sequence: 31 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes From the Field: Messages from the Missions (Concluded) General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering]
Digging  for  Happiness 
Elizabeth  Adamson 
MYRA'S  thoughts,  as  she  gets  results.  He's  happy  and  con- 
walked  home  from  Relief  So-  tented.  He  seldom  complains.  And 
ciety  meeting,  were  a  trifle  I  am  practically  the  opposite.  Why? 
confused.  She  had  hated  to  tell  Sis-  Myra  rested  her  head  on  her  arms, 
ter  Packham  that  she  had  definitely  Could  there  really  be  some  magic  in 
decided  she  wouldn't  keep  on  with  trying  and  doing  instead  of  just 
her  class  lessons.  And  Sister  Pack-  dreaming  and  wishing? 
ham  had  been  so  nice  about  it;  but  Suddenly  Myra  jumped  to  her 
her  parting  words  traced  an  indelible  feet,  a  look  of  resolution  in  her  eyes, 
line  through  Myra's  mind.  *'I  hope  She  would  give  Sister  Packham's  and 
you'll  reconsider,  Myra.  You'll  Tim's  hints  a  thoroughly  honest  try. 
make  a  wonderful  teacher.  Just  try  She  would  stop  dreaming  about 
it  once  more.  We  all  have  hidden  what  she  would  like  to  have  and  do, 
talents  that  give  us  a  pleasurable  sur-  and  really  find  out  for  herself  what 
prise  when  we  dig  them  out  and  applied  effort  would  bring, 
use  them.  And  it's  surprising  how  Immediately  upon  making  this 
much  genuine  joy  and  satisfaction  decision,  her  blood  began  to  pulsate 
we  get  in  the  process  of  digging."  with  new  life  and  she  was  filled  with 
The  last  sentence,  particularly,  the  need  to  go  into  action.  Her 
kept  running  through  her  mind,  mind  raced  ahead  to  the  tasks  and 
once  in  awhile  interspersed  with  a  work  she  had  to  do.  As  she  enu- 
remark  of  Tim's,  "If  you  would  only  merated  them  one  by  one,  and  the 
try,  use  a  little  patience.  Big  things  list  became  longer,  her  determina- 
aren't  done  in  a  hurry."  Even  Tim  tion  began  to  ebb.  There  was  Nan- 
thought  she  had  something  that  so  cy's  dress  to  finish,  dishes  to  wash, 
far  had  failed  to  materialize.  ironing  to  be  done,  and  dinner  start- 
Myra  was  at  her  own  gate.  This  f^/  besides  the  other  tasks  she  had 
time,  instead  of  hurrying  into  the  i^^  ""^il  she  felt  more  m  the  mood, 
house,  for  some  reason,  she  stopped  ^h,  there  were  too  many  thmgs!  She 
to  gaze  about  her.  It's  funny,  she  "^^^^  ^^"^^  g^*  them  all  done, 
thought,  I've  never  especially  no- 
ticed how  inviting  Tim  has  made  TT  was  by  sheer  will  power  that 
our  yard.  It's  taken  a  long  time  to  •■•  Myra  commandeered  her  fleeing 
make  things  look  like  this— the  energies  to  stop  and  come  back  to 
white  arbor,  the  flower  beds,  and  the  battle  front.  "For,"  she  said 
even  the  grass.  It's  so  orderiy  and  aloud,  "it  looks  as  if  I  really  do  have 
peaceful  out  here  that  I  hate  to  go  a  battle,  one  of  habit.  That  must  be 
in-  the  way  I've  always  been.    When  I 
She  dropped  down  on  the  grass,  have  a  stack  of  things  to  do,  I  either 
Her  thoughts  kept  on.  What's  the  somehow  back  out  and  do  them  as 
difference  between  Tim  and  me?  He  I  feel  the  urge,  or  rush  through  them 
Page  260

DIGGING  FOR  HAPPINESS 
261 
so  fast  nothing  is  done  quite  right. 
No  wonder  I'm  never  satisfied.  But 
not  this  time.  Vm  going  to  prove  to 
myself  I  can  do  things  and  do  them 
well.  I  will!  I  will!  I  can,  especially 
if  the  Lord  will  help  me." 
She  pushed  open  the  door.  As 
she  glanced  at  the  upheaval  she  had 
left  when  she  went  to  Relief  Society