[Vol33 | April 1946 | Sequence: 35 | Category: Article | Title: God Must Love the Beautiful Mabel Jones Gabbott]
GOD  MUST  LOVE 
THE  BEAUTIFUL 
Mabel  Jones  Gabbott 
God  must  love  the  beautiful; 
He  made  his  world  so  fair, 
He  crowned  the  earth  with  hills  that  stand 
Jewelled  in  the  high  blue  air; 
He  nestled  lakes  among  the  trees, 
And  curved  the  seas  with  care. 
God  must  love  the  beautiful; 
His  heaven,  high  and  free. 
Splashed  vdth  brilliant  patterned  stars 
In  chorused  harmony, 
Circles  round  about  his  world. 
With  gleaming  symmetry. 
God  must  love  the  beautiful, 
What  colors  he  has  planned: 
Pink  and  white  of  blossomed  trees. 
Ocean-tinted  sand. 
Greening  fields,  and  earth-brown  clod- 
All  fashioned  by  his  hand. 
^ 
Page  286

Work  Meeting 
JLeVs    1 1  Lake   ^Juicki les 
CPRING  is  here  in  all  its  glory. 
How  about  a  ''Dickie  Day"  for 
the  Work-Meeting  Tuesday?  A 
change  of  dickies  gives  an  old  suit  a 
real  rejuvenation. 
Where  shall  we  get  the  material? 
Dickies  require  comparatively  small 
pieces  of  material  and  they  are  easily 
cut.  The  only  shaping  necessary  is 
at  the  neck,  back  and  front,  and  a 
slight  slope  to  the  shoulder. 
Let's  look  in  the  scrap  bag.  Here 
is  a  piece  of  lawn.  A  twenty-inch 
length  by  a  twelve-inch  width 
will  make  a  plain  front.  A  strip 
one-inch  wide,  when  finished 
down  the  front  vdth  narrow  rick- 
rack,  and  a  bow  at  the  neck  to 
match,  makes  an  interesting  finish- 
ing. If  there  is  enough  material,  the 
back  of  the  dickie  may  be  cut  of  the 
same  material  as  the  front.  If  not,  a 
bleached  sugar  sack  will  do  as  well. 
Make  an  opening  in  the  center  back 
seven  or  eight  inches  long.  This 
same  st}'le  works  nicely  v^th  plain 
or  corded  rayon  and  rayon  rickrack. 
Tape  is  placed  about  one  inch 
from  the  bottom  and  tied  on  each 
side  to  hold  the  dickie  firm. 
Now,  find  a  piece  of  georgette 
about  seventeen  inches  wide  and 
twenty  inches  long,  plus  some  scraps 
for  a  bow,  and  we  shall  soon  have 
another  dickie.  This  one  will  be  pin- 
tucked   in  groups   of   threes,   three 
groups  on  each  side  of  the  front. 
Shape  the  neck,  then  make  a  net 
back  which  has  an  eight  or  nine  inch 
opening  down  the  center  back,  and 
bind  the  neck  with  a  bias  piece  of 
the  georgette.  At  the  center  front, 
place  a  bow  made  of  a  double  piece 
of  georgette. 
Pin  tucks,  lace,  and  insertion  will 
work  together  effectively  in  a  dickie 
of  either  lawn  or  batiste.  A  frilly 
jabot  may  be  added,  or  the  dickie 
may  be  left  with  a  plain  neck. 
A  discarded  organdy  evening 
dress  may  be  used  to  advantage  in 
making  sheer  dickies.  The  tail  of  a 
man's  shirt  makes  a  neat,  easily 
laundered  dickie.  These,  and  many 
otherwise  unused  materials,  may  be 
used  advantageously  in  a  "Dickie 
Day  Project." 
Page  287

RELIEF  SOCIETY  GIFTS  FOR  MOTHER'S  DAY 
Gift  Cards  Included  When  Requested 
Ida 
ocie t 
^ 
Pin 
No.  1  Pin  of  blue  baked  French  hard  enamel  and  24  carat  gold-plated.    Price  $1.20,  postpaid. 
No.  2  Pin  of  blue  baked  French  hard  enamel  and  10  carat  solid-gold  front  gold  filled,  with 
24-carat  gold-plated  back.    Price  $2.00,  postpaid. 
Both  pins  ore  identical  as  to  design,  size,  and  coloring,  and  bear  the   organization  date. 
1842.    These  prices  include  Federal  excise  tax. 
^C L 
emenar^ 
ocie t 
A  panorama  of  Relief  Society's  first  hvmdred  years  in  picture  and  story,  containing  much 
material  heretofore  unpublished.     Invaluable  to  all  Relief  Society  workers. 
Bound  in  a  blue  paper  book  cover,  with  its  title  "A  Centenary  of  Relief  Society"  and  the 
centennial  insignia  beautifully  embossed  in  gold. 
96  pages,  size  9x12  inches.     Over  500  pictures  of  historical  interest.     Special  price  SO  cents 
per  copy,  postpaid. 
r\eiief  S^ocie t 
^ 
aaazme 
f 
dSmder 
A  durable  binder  of  blue  imitation  leather  stamped  in  gold  with  the  name  of  the  Magazine, 
into  which  twelve  single  copies  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  may  be  inserted  or  removed 
at  will.  A  great  convenience  to  all  stake  and  ward  Relief  Society  officers,  class  leaders,  and 
to  all  Magazine  subscribers  who  like  to  keep  a  current  year's  issue  of  the  Magazine  together. 
Price  $1.20  postpaid. 
ADDITIONAL  SONGS 
Still  available  are  the  additional  songs  issued  in  1941  for  insertion  in  the  Song  Book 
at  15  cents  for  the  set  of  three — "In  Thy  Form,"  "A  Song  of  Triumph,"  and  "O  Father. 
Keep  Us  We  Pray." 
All  articles  listed  above  are  obtainable  only  from  General  Board