A Christian Revival in America By Harrison R. Merrill
"It is significant that Papini's great work is the best selling book of non fiction in America," says the Chicago Tribune, one of the largest and most influential newspapers in America. What is significant about that? One may ask. The remarkable sale of Dorothy Canfield's translation of Giovanni Papini's Life of Christ, seems to point to the fact that there has been a great revival of interest in Jesus Christ and in Christian ideals. While the sale of this one book may not be conclusive evidence of such a revival, other indications seem to substantiate the belief that there is a tremendous wave of religious enthusiasm sweeping over this country. It is seen in the remarkable growth of all churches during the last year or more, in the united front many churches are presenting to the world, and in the great movement towards week-day religious training in America.
The Latter-day Saint Church has, for many years, attempted to supplement secular education with training in religion: the same movement now appears in eastern states among other religious denominations who have sought and found co-operation with school boards to such an extent that one hour a week is taken from the schedule of secular classes, and given over entirely to the various churches. It is reported, too, that these Bible classes are attended by large numbers of enthusiastic pupils. It is said that when the day-school classes are dismissed for the religion class, the pupils march to their various church class rooms, with banners flying and with expressions of genuine joy upon their countenances. Such a thing could not have happened, or at least did not happen, ten years ago.
Educators, sociologists, and others who are thinking upon national problems, have come to the conclusion that in true Christianity alone is found principles that will save the nation and the world. Almost to a man the leaders in America have placed themselves upon record in a manner favorable to religion. Roger W. Babson, the much quoted business interpreter of America says: "The need of the hour is not more factories or materials, not more railroads or steamships, not more armies or navies, but rather more education based on the plain teachings of Jesus. The prosperity of our country depends on the motives and purposes of the people. These motives and purposes are directed in the right course only through religion.
"Religion, like every thing else of value, must be taught. It is possible to get more religion in industry and business only through the development of Christian education and leadership. With the forces of evil backed by men and money systematically organized to destroy, we must back with men and money all campaigns for Christian education.
"I insist that the safety of our sons and daughters as they go out on the streets this very night is due to the influence of the preachers rather than to the influence of the policemen and lawmakers. Yes, the safety of our nation, including all groups, depends on Christian education. Furthermore, at no time in our history has it been more greatly needed."
Recently Dr. Charles Abram Ellwood, one of the foremost sociologists of America, declared in a course of lectures given at the Brigham Young University, that a reconstruction of religion along lines laid down by Jesus of Nazareth is the crying need and almost the only hope of the world. We quote from Dr. Ellwood's words: "Our world needs adequate spiritual leadership?" "Only a Christian leadership can save our civilization from going on the rocks"?"The universities have become too much enamored of the gods of the market-place." Dr. Ellwood's book, The Reconstruction of Religion, has had a phenomenal sale, another indication that America is looking for true religion.
Undoubtedly America is standing in the morning light of a new day, religiously speaking. Never before has there been so much constructive thinking along lines of religion and spirituality. Religious forms that cannot stand the white light of publicity, and sound thinking, must sink from view. Those virile religions, capable of seeing and caring for the needs of humanity, will rise and take the leadership in the reconstruction of religion.
Opportunity is knocking at the gates of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The world is coming to Zion for the word of the Lord. The Church must be able to take the spiritual leadership of the world. While we know that Christ is at the helm, we must not forget that he works always through human agencies. The responsibility is ours. May we rise to the situation and do some constructive building upon firm foundations which have been laid during the last hundred years. We have the truth, but we must not forget that even truth is progressive; devices and ideas must change to fit the new world which greets us daily.
A Daughter of the Southern Sea By Annie D. Palmer
The little village of Saunia rang with merriment. All through the day its dusky inhabitants had been astir in preparation for the marriage feast of Paula's lovely daughter. At four in the morning they had paddled away, in their canoes, and had returned early in the forenoon with a good catch of various fishes, including eels and octopuses. They had scoured the neighborhood for breadfruit, taro, and bananas. They had brought down generous supplies of cocoanuts from surrounding palm trees, and they had strangled the life out of a huge, pet porker by sitting on each end of a pole placed across his neck. All the cooking pits of the village had been utilized, for there would be visitors from every part of the island.
And now the feast was spread. The long rows of mats laid upon the grass and covered with banana leaves, were decorated here and there with sprigs of orange blossom. The cooked food was placed conveniently in generous heaps. There were stacks of large leaves on which it would be served. Bordering every row were fresh young cocoanuts, filled with milk a cooling and delicious beverage which nature had abundantly provided.
Faintly at first, but with increasing volume, came the melodious song of the rowers, in boats skimming lightly across the bay. The villagers, men, women, and children hurried to the edge of the water and far out into its shallow ripples to meet the visiting party, and push the boats out of reach of the incoming tide. Laughing, talking, shouting, they advanced to the shady spot where the repast was laid, and seated themselves on grass or mats facing the decorated "festal board."
But Tafi was not there. She had wandered unseen up the narrow pathway to the big banyan tree, at the foot of the hill. With aching heart she sat mechanically plucking ferns and grasses from the luxuriant growth around her, and twining them into a wreath to be laid upon one of her cherished graves.
It was a beautiful retreat, was the seclusion of the banyan tree. Its thick foliage afforded shelter alike from sun and rain; its many trunks and branches were draped and festooned, heavily, with vines and all its recesses, nooks, and alcoves were carpeted thick with grass. Here many times Tafi had sat with her husband-lover and let her tears fall in spite of his tenderness, because of the death of their babies. And here she had sat alone and wept for him when he had followed their little ones into the land of spirits. But once, as she drew near the place, she heard voices and the language of white men; and from that time she had abandoned the banyan to the missionaries who had headquarters near the village.
This morning she had seen the missionaries go away in their boat. The gathering of the crowd had intensified her loneliness. Her soul revolted against being forced into the festivities. Musing and dreaming she had followed the path, and sat as we have noted, weaving a chaplet in memory of her dead.
Recess whence it came and saw a white woman kneeling with bowed head. Tafi could understand enough to know that the woman was asking God for strength to do her part in the labors of the mission, and for courage to bear its trials. She understood, too, that the woman prayed that she might love these dark-skinned people and teach them to love her. As the woman rose to her feet, Tafi made her presence known by a little cough.
"I did not see you," said Mrs. Hale, drawing near.
"No, and I not see you," answered Tafi in broken English.
"Why are you not at the feast?"
"I cannot. My heart is so tired, so sick."
"You mean you are in sorrow?"
"Yes, sorrow. My husband die. So, too, my babies. All gone! All gone!" She drew her flowing hair across her face to dry the tears.
"Poor girl! How many little ones did you lose?" asked Mrs. Hale.
"Two. And my babies all time burn?die soon?not baptize?not save?all time burn, all time burn!"
"No, no, dear little sister. Your babies will never burn. Why should they? They never did a wrong. Your babies are saved. If you do right you shall have them again in your arms never more to be separated from them."
"My husband, too? Will he??" She paused, unable to find words for the resurrection and the reuniting.
"He will live again and you shall know him. But you must be baptized, by one of God's servants. There are many things you must learn."
"You like teach me?"
"Very much. You can come to the mission house and we will read God's word together from our Bibles."
"Maybe I come tomorrow. You like I bring Salat?"
"As you wish."
"Maybe so you make me be glad. Maybe some time sing."
"I hope so. We shall all be glad if we do the will of the Lord."
When the two women parted half an hour later, each one felt stronger for the conflict before her; Mrs. Hale, in the thought of having given comfort to the sorrowful; Tafi, in the new found hope of life and love, beyond the grave and the assurance that her babies were not suffering the tortures of the fires of hell.
The feasting and hilarity, begun at the village in mid afternoon, continued until nightfall. No one had mentioned the absence of Tafi. They were accustomed to her keeping apart with her grief. But as the shadows lengthened, and a cool breeze from the sea sprang up, some one proposed a dance. The dance could never be a real success without being well led; and no one in the village could lead with such grace and variety of motion as Tafi. They found her with her Bible in a hut, far removed from the merry-making. Every excuse she made was vain, every plea put aside. She must lead the dance.
The young people of the party and some of the older ones, were seated in a large semi-circle; the singing accompanied by the wooden drum and the clapping of hands, was begun as Tafi was dragged unwillingly into the circle. She seated herself in full view of all the dancers. With queenly grace her supple body moved forward and back, from side to side; her arms and hands, smooth and perfect as a sculptor's model, waved and circled, were borne aloft, carried forward in graceful curves, and again lowered to the grass at her sides; and all the others imitated as best they could, or joined in with the clapping and the song. As the dancing continued, the excitement grew; and soon Tafi, urged by a chief sitting near, arose to her feet and led the dance much after the fashion of the ballet of the modern stage. And so they danced and wildly interpreted nature's fiercest moods, or revealed the passions surging within their breasts. Something within her told Tafi that this wild dance would not be approved by her friend at the mission, and when it was over she ran swiftly and hid herself, and was not seen again that night.
"The chief of Lufi was much pleased with my daughter's dancing," said Salu, a few days later, when the feasting was over and the guests had all departed. "He has asked that she visit Lufi, that his brother may see her charm."
"The brother of the chief of Lufi is a black hog," replied Tafi. "Besides, I shall never dance again as our people dance."
"And why will you not dance again, my daughter?" asked her father.
"It is not right. My spirit tells me?"
"Who has set you up to be the chief of Saunia? Yesterday
A DAUGHTER OF THE SOUTHERN SEA. 129 you refused to smoke. Today, you say you will not dance. What fool notion will rule you next? I say you shall go to Lufi, and you shall lead the villagers in their dance. Why not?" "Tafi feared her father when he was angry, so she did not reply. But that night she secretly prayed that something would happen to change her father's mind. Little did she dream that things so important were already happening that her father would be kept extremely busy for many weeks. The rights of the Island King had been disputed and rumors of war were coming to Saunia, by land and sea. We must not stop to detail the savagery of the mad conflict. That is not a part of our story. But when it was over, Tafi's brother had met the cruel fate of many another warrior, his wife and baby had been accidentally drowned, and his three orphaned boys became the charge of the childless widow.. Never were south sea island boys more carefully tended. Never more carefully trained. Tafi would have sent them to the mission school; would have had them baptized; but the mention of the missionaries so enraged her father that she did not even dare herself to comply with the ordinance. She did, however, visit Mrs. Hale, and was continually drinking in the spirit of the gospel.; "Tafi,"' said the oldest of her boys one day, "may I go out to the reef and dive for coral? We can sell the coral to the white people who are on the big steamer in the harbor." "Are you not afraid of the sharks?" asked Tafi. "I do not rule the sharks," the boy replied. "God will keep me from the sharks." "And what will you do with the money if you sell the coral?" continued Tafi. "I shall pay tithing first. After that I shall bring the rest to you.". Tafi took him in her arms and kissed his cheek, which was not the custom of her people. She was gradually picking up many foreign manners from her association with Mrs. Hale. But the woman was not happy. There was no want; for the need of these simple folk was small, and they shared in common both the food and shelter of the village. She wanted to be free, free to unite with the church in which her faith was fixed; free to proclaim her creed; free to mingle with the people of her choice. More than all she wanted to come into the fold through the way of baptism, and to have her boys come in by the same way. Gladly would she have stolen away and been baptized secretly; but Mrs. Hale and the missionaries advised her to be patient and wait for her father's consent. Constantly she pleaded: 130 "Read the Book of Mormon, Salu. It is the same as many things you tell about our traditions." "I shall read my Bible. I learned the letters from its holy 'pages. I have read no other book. I shall read no other." "Then read from your Bible the prophecies? "I have read the Bible through. Let me alone." "The Bible tells about prophets and apostles." "They are of the past. Blessed were they who saw and heard the holy apostles of the Lord." "And yet these same people sought the life of the apostle Paul and stoned his disciple to death. Satan always prompts?" "If I should see an apostle, I would kneel at his feet while the devil shook his fist in my face." "The missionaries tell us that in their Church there are apostles?". "They lie. When they show me an apostle, I shall believe them." "And will you then let me and the boys join their Church?" "Indeed, yes. On the day my eyes look upon an apostle, my whole family will be ready for baptism." Salu made this statement with the most perfect confidence that no such miraculous person as an apostle would ever set foot upon his native soil. As a smile of contentment lighted up the countenance of Tafi, he felt that he could afford to be generous in a matter so positive, and added: "Nay, I will go further. On the day I see an apostle in Saunia, I shall pray for the conversion of the entire village." "So be it, my father," answered Tafi hopefully. From the conference with her father the young woman hurried to the confidence of Mrs, Hale. "When will the apostle come?" she asked eagerly. "He is to arrive on the fourteenth of next month. Will your father hear him?" "Salu has promised that when an apostle comes, I and my scns and all the people of the village may join the church." Tafi repeated the promise as she understood its meaning, as no doubt it was meant by the chief. It was the spirit but not the letter of his words. He found occasion to look to the letter only at a later date. All the village was astir on the fourteenth of March. The wharf was thronged with villagers who had gathered to watch the landing of two men from the big steamer which would soon drop anchor in the bay. For it had been rumored that one of these men was an apostle, and that he would sojourn for a few days in the village of Saunia. Salu, the chief, stirred not. Knowing full well that his A DAUGHTER OF THE SOUTHERN SEA 131 daughter would hold him to his promise concerning her baptism, he made up his mind not see this man, this apostle. So, pretending a severe pain in his head, he lay on his mats, anxiously watched by his faithful spouse, Salai. "Why did Satan prompt me to promise her?" he growled. "I want to see the great foreigner?I must! But, no. I cannot. I must away to Lufi while he stays in Saunia." "But if you leave, he will convert Saunia," suggested Salai. "So he will. I must remain for the protection of my people. But I will not see him.. I will not see him." Conference at mission headquarters was a wonderful gathering. Interest in the great foreigner, the apostle, had spread rapidly over the island, and many came from its farthest bounds to see and hear him. His manner was pleasing, his face was good to behold, and his speeches, given through an interpreter, proclaimed him all he professed to be. For two days Tafi sat almost constantly under sound of his voice. For two days while all Saunia feasted, she took not a morsel of food nor a sip of drink, fasting and praying that her father might see him. The chief was obdurate. Curiosity was strong, the hospitality of his house urged, his daughter pleaded, and the "still small voice" prompted him to yield. But Satan was there also, and held his ground tenaciously. What would the chief of Lufi think if Tafi were permitted to follow strange gods? Why should his people lay hold of a different religion? Why did the apostle come to Saunia? Why should he, the chief, yield even the least little bit? He would not.. No, he would not. A week went by. The last of the visitors had departed. The apostle had gone to spend a few days at the north of the island, and only Mrs. Hale and one of the elders remained. At the mission home. Salu walked about the village. It was a relief to do that. But. Another sorrow was in his heart. Puamo the fifteen year old lad was very ill. All remedies known to native skill had failed to restore him. The banana which Tafi had chewed and offered him from her own mouth, did not tempt him, His breath was short, his lips parched. He talked wildly of long journeys across the sea and great monsters to be met. In his saner moments he clung to Salu and begged, that the apostle be brought to heal him. "It was in the Bible, Salu," whispered the lad feebly. "What is in the Bible?" asked Salu in his tenderest tones. "About praying for the sick?and the oil?you can ask Tafi." "What is it he says?" asked the chief. And amid sobs and tears the woman told how even in modern times, the sick were healed when the elders prayed over them, anointing them with oil. 132 "If the apostle comes here?' The strong man paused, half relenting. The lad clasped his hands, and looked his appeal through tear-wet eyes. "Well, let him come. If the boy is healed, it is well," assented Salu. "And you will see him?" asked Tafi. "No. I leave when he approaches." There were no elders there when, breathless, Tafi reached headquarters. They and the apostle were to arrive toward evening from the north. Elder Harvey had gone for a walk in the wood. Salu met the woman returning alone and could not conceal his disappointment. "I must take the canoe," she said, "and go to meet their boat. They will come with all possible speed when I have told them. I must fly!" "You!" snorted the chief. "You are weak as a baby. Send one of the men." 7 "There is no one here. The fishing?' "Ah, yes. And I could not come up to the boat without seeing the apostle." "Watch the lad," said Tafi. "See that you do not let him die before I come. I shall bring them." Salu tried a moment later to call her back, but it was useless. She was already shoving the canoe into the shallow water, and the sound of the waves drowned his voice. The man stood for a moment watching her as she put to sea in the frail craft. Had she been in her usual strength he would not have feared. But she had not slept and had eaten almost nothing since the child became ill. He wondered if now her strength would endure. How she worked! A few strokes of the paddle on this side, then a few on that. The canoe must be guided where she wished it to go. How far she leaned forward to get a long stroke! How she pulled, in her eagerness to reach the boat quickly! The old chief hastened to the lad, where we must leave him and Salai to watch while we follow the canoe now skimming so swiftly over the water. She must not venture too far from shore, for the breeze was so stiff it was already a hindrance to her progress. She must keep clear of the rocks, and of the breakers that rush and tumble against the reef. She must watch for the boat, that it might notpass her unnoticed and so thwart her plan, And she must hurry ?hurry?hurry. That was the one thought she kept repeating? that and the prayer in her heart that her boy would not = before she could get help. There was no way for her to tell the time exactly, but she knew she had been out a long time, that she was far from home. A DAUGHTER OF THE SOUTHERN SEA 133 She began to look longingly across the water for the boat. Her canoe moved more and more slowly. It seemed too heavy to respond to the pull on the paddle. There was a terrible pain in her back. She could hardly straighten again when she bent to her task. And now the water grew dark. She looked at the sky. There was nothing but clouds?clouds black and ominous. A sharp streak of lightning seemed to tear the clouds asunder, but they remained as before. In a few moments the rain came down in torrents. She tried to go ashore, certain that she would be more likely to meet the boat party there than on this stormy sea, The breeze was now a gale, and the canoe, a mere plaything for the angry waves, floated helplessly, quite unaffected by her feeble resistance. Suddenly her paddle grated harshly against a rock and broke in her hands. The storm blinded her. She did not know where she was, but she felt sure the water was too deep to wade; and she had no strength to swim. All was lost. There was nothing to do but to drift with the current, and she did not know where the current would take her. It might toss her upon the rocks, in which case she would be dashed to death; it might carry her far out to sea; or it might take her into the deep part of the bay where the sharks? - a _??; At the thought of sharks there came to her mind the words of her darling boy: "I am not the ruler of the sharks. God will not let the sharks hurt me." Dear Lad! Was he dead? Would God take care of her, too? She prayed, oh, how fervently she prayed that he would send help tothem both! ?_?_, Then she tried to make the canoe go by paddling with her hands and then, and then? - She knew no more until she heard the kind voice of Mrs. Ale: "Poor little sister! She did not know how weak she was! And the storm was so terrible! Here is warm milk, dear sister. You must drink it." "The apostle," murmured the woman in a whisper that was hardly audible. "My boy will die!" "The apostle is here, and your son is healed," answered Mrs. Hale and Tafi grasped the warm hand of the boy who was patting her cheek,, "Ts it, indeed, you and not a spirit, Puamo?" she asked. "It is true, Tafi. I am well," the boy assured her as he stooped to kiss her forehead. "The apostle came and I am well." "Where is Salu?" Tafi asked. The chief came forward and took her hand, assuring her that he never could have forgiven himself, had her errand failed. The missionaries' boat had gone around the island, he told her: 136. RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE either for a walk or to play golf. He had dinner at 7 and was always in bed before midnight. *President Wilson's youthful relish of detective stories as a mental relaxation was one of his most famous traits. "There are blessed intervals," he said, "when I forgot by one means or another that I am President of the United States. One is to get a rattling good detective story, get after some imaginary offender and chase him all over the country." As President Woodrow Wilson became an ardent golfer, not of the fair weather kind merely but one whose love for the open sent him out over: the course in a driving rain or with snow on the ground. Returning one afternoon from a long walk through the snow after a game at the Columbia Country Club links, the President, being late, made a short cut to the White House through the Interior Department building. He found a sign which said, "No admission after 2 o'clock." In answer to his summons the doorkeeper came out, eyed him in a somewhat hostile fashion and said: _. "Well, what do you want, and who are you?" "I'm Mr. Woodrow Wilson," said the President with a smile.; "Well, well," said the doorkeeper, finally, with recognition, "I thought your face looked familiar." * There is perhaps living yet in Los Angeles a girl who, nearly ten years ago, called upon President Wilson. She went there with a definite determination, as this little story will illustrate. "Mr. President," said Laura May Reilly, the miss in question, "won't you please kiss me?" "With the greatest pleasure," said the President, and he gave the petitioner a kiss right on her cupid bow lips. "T'm seven going on eight,' said Miss Laura May, "and my father told me to ask the President for a kiss and bring it back to Los Angeles, and I'm going to do it." *% OK President Wilson was very fond of young children, and very tender toward the afflicted. One day a long and distinguished line of callers was kept waiting while the President, stepping to one side, shook hands with John W. Kern Jr., son of Senator Kern. The boy had been a victim of infantile paralysis and was there on crutches hoping the might be greeted by the President. The President not only shook his hands, but gave the eager, grateful boy several minutes of his time. STORIES ABOUT WOODRORW WILSON 137 The independence of Woodrow Wilson exemplified itself not only in matters of politics and statecraft, but in divers other ways. He aroused curiosity among associates in Washington by using for the ordinary "O. K." the then strange word "okeh." It was supposed that this was a whim, no one imagining it had an authoritative basis. However, it developed that the initials "O. K." stood for the ancient word "okeh,"' which the President had resurrected.: m ?+ Among the President's accomplishments but one which he very modestly concealed, was that of singing. "Father has a beautiful voice," said Miss Margaret Wilson. "It is really of fine quality, but he has not sung much except in concerts at college." * * * Possibly the most exciting days of his political career were in the New Jersey campaigns when he was the Democratic candidate for governor. Although his candidacy, was promoted and supported by Jim Smith, so-called boss of the State. Wilson broke with him during the campaign. After his election and inauguration, one of Smith's henchmen called upon him in the executive offices and denounced him for going back on "the boss." "You are no gentleman," roared the caller. "And you are no judge," replied the governor, showing him the door. ** Mrs. Wilson still retains, as one of her most prized possessions, the gold vanity case which the President gave her as a wedding present. In a place designed to hold a photograph she placed and still keeps the President's favorite picture of himself. * Secret service men assigned to guard the President always had. A difficult time keeping track of Mr. Wilson. Like Harounal-Raschid he loved to steal away and mingle with the crowds. One night, with Col. E. M. House, he left his quarters in New York and together they explored a part of the city, chiefly Broadway and Fifth Avenue. At length the President was recognized and a great crowd soon was following. The two distinguished companions escaped at Forty-third and Broadway by slipping into a building and going out the back way. Then, like two young fellows out for a lark, they boarded a bus and vanished. During the jaunt the President came upon a suffragette haranguing a crowd. That was in the day of very tense business in the suffragette line. She offered the President a tract, but he laughingly refused the proffer.. He was continually breaking Presidential precedents. Early in his first term he left for Philadelphia by auto to consult an oculist. Exhilarated by the freedom he took lunch in a public dining room, strolled through the streets and into stores, returned to Washington in a public railroad coach and was driven to the White House in a hired automobile. * Although he was a man of striking individual appearance, President Wilson oftentimes was not recognized. Up in Cornish, Vt., the keeper of the toll bridge over the Connecticut River had recetved from the President the 15-cent impost a number of times, but, on account of faulty eyesight or lack of attention, he had never recognized his distinguished customer. But one day, looking somewhat closer, he had a revelation and asked: "Aren't you the President of the United States?" Mr. Wilson smiling acknowledged that he was. The toll taker was about to forego the 15 cents, but decided differently. ?Los Angeles Examiner. NOTES WOMEN'S PROGRESS Miss Gildersleeve Speaks at Columbia Cornerstone Exercises In an address at the laying of the cornerstone of 'the new residence hall for women at-Columbia University yesterday afternoon Miss Virginia C. Gildersleeve, Dean of Barnard College, declared that the event was a monument to the enormous progress being made by women in higher education. University records show that last year the enrollment in the three main divisions making up the student body included 18,269 women and 15,194 men. The largest number of women was registered in the Summer session, where the total reached 8,295. There were 5,572 in the undergraduate, graduate and professional schools, and 4,402 in university extension, Officers, trustees and members of the university's faculties witnessed yesterday's exercises. The stone was put in place by President Nicholas Murray Butler?New York Times. 140 "T want one friend left in the world," replied Tom sadly. The two went home and here is what Bill found out. Tom's wife laid a stack of unpaid bills upon the table. They were added up and totaled nearly a thousand dollars. Some of them had been running for a year or more. There were with them curt notes demanding the money. A few questions, tactfully put, brought out the fact that Tom and Mary used no system whatever in their expenditures. They were in fact, up in the air. They bought what ever they fancied without regard for price. They had had hopes of saving a little money when they started out with married life but had never made the start and therefore no habit of thrift had ever been cultivated. Now, as _ things stood, it was even hopeless to think of such a thing. There was nothing left but the worry and the attempt to get along as best they could. After Bill had all the facts he said: "There is a way to pull out of this mess, but before you start it will be necessary to make a strong resolution and never break it. I will show you a plan that leads to success. That plan is a little book I'm going to make out for you." "Little book? What do you mean by that?" Bill smiled and picking up a ruled account book from the table said:. "You owe this little book just one thousand' dollars. Sup- 'pose I loaned you a thousand. How much could you pay back each month if you denied yourselves a few luxuries?" Tom looked at his wife as if asking her the question. "We should be able to pay a hundred dollars," replied Mary. "Of course, it would make us do without a lot of things we have been used to, but we could do it, in a pinch." "Well, that is exactly the scheme of this book. Your first creditor is Sam Jones. We write his name on the first page with the amount we owe him. We do that with each creditor until we have them all down in the book. "Now run over the pages and try and divide one hundred dollars among your creditors to be paid on the first of the month, without fail. You're lucky. There are just twenty creditors. Tom you don't owe every man in the town, just twenty of them. Divide one hundred dollars by twenty and you owe each of them five dollars on the first of each month. Easy. Isn't it?" "They won't stand for it," said Tom. "Oh yes they will. They will be glad to stand for it, Tom, when they know that you are working on a system which will assure them that they will get every cent you owe them inside of a year. Remember, though, that the success ofthis scheme depends upon faithfulness in making your payments." WHY WORRY? "That should work out," said Tom, his face lighting up with a hopeful smile, the first in months. "It will, Tom. Depend on it. Give Mary what is left after the book is paid and run no further bills." "Pay cash," said Mary, "that's what I've always wanted to do, but never had it." "You'll have it from now on,' ' smiled Bill as he took his departure. * * * It was nearly three years later that I happened to meet Torn and Mary on the street. Both looked prosperous and happy. As I was a good friend of both I asked: "Doing any worrying, Tom?" He' laughed heartily. "Not a bit. Never realized what a poison thing worry was until Bill put me right. Not only did we pay all those bills like he said we would, but Mary got so used to economy and thrift that we only have a month or two left petore we pay ay on our new home. I tell you?," "We put the price of the new home on the little book too," interrupted Mary, "we got so used to paying that hundred dollars that when we were clear of debt we just naturally had to have that little book. Habit, you see. So charged our home on it and paid off the first of each month. It's the best ever? SYSTEM, THRIFT and no WORRYING allowed in our home." "Were you ever tempted to skip a month?" "No sir. The first of each month was a great event in our lives. After checking off the various names as paid, when Tom _ handed me what was left, you would think by looking at his face that he had just been elected president of the United States." The entire object of true education is to make people not merely do the right things, but enjoy the right things?not merely industrious, but to love industry?not merely learned, but to love knowledge?not merely pure, but to love purity?not merely just, but to hunger and thirst after justice?John Ruskin. Are we Pharisees? By Grace Ingles Frost The place was the dining room of a large, technical institution in a western state. The time, that hour when all employees met to partake of the midday meal. At one. Table sat the women, at other tables the men were seated. It was optional whether either faction so much as greeted the other. Howsoever, on this particular day perfect harmony seemed to prevail, if one might accurately judge from appearance. Not the slightest cloud obscured the mental horizon of those present. General conversation, combined with now and then a ripple of laughter, gave one the impression that these people might be members of one congenial family at meat. Just previous to the serving of dessert, a belated arrival entered the room. This person, a man, without speaking to anyone, unobtrusively seated himself at one of the tables occupied by those of his sex. Several of the men near him greeted him jovially. The majority of the men present paid no attention to him, apparently accepting his presence as an ordinary occurrence. At the women's table conditions were different. Many eyes were raised questioningly, but no comments were expressed verbally, except by one person. She was a woman of unusually refined appearance, who remarked to her neighbor that the stranger's presence in the room was presumptuous and altogether intolerable. As her mind dwelt upon the circumstance of the man being in their midst, the color in her face deepened and her hands trembled in their efforts to raise the food to her lips. If one could have followed the gyration of this 'woman's mind, one would have heard a mental monologue somewhat along this line: 'What right has such a creature to enter the room with such as I and attempt to deliberately 'break bread' with me? I have been raised not to associate with such as he, a criminal. I will not tolerate such an indignity offered to my womanhood." To the woman's mind the act of the stranger who had so inoffensively entered the room where she ate, had grown to the proportion of a personal affront. She became unjust in her self-righteousness to the extent of untruth, for the man had not attempted to break bread with her. Pushing aside her plate, the woman arose from the table. ARE WE PHARISEES? With head raised haughtily and the flame of indignation burning in her cheeks, she left the room in search of one in authority to inquire if she must be subject to such insult. The conference was satisfactory to her. The man was told to remain away from the room while other employees were present. He must eat alone. And the man? Yes, he had committed a very serious offense. He was a sinner, but a repentant one. He was striving to obliterate his past by his service to others, and to make his present and future atone for his error. He was not the woman's equal in intelligence, nor breeding, probably, but he was doing his best. The mind of another individual who was seated that day at the table occupied by the women employees of this institution, was also extremely active. At first this person felt a trifle shocked at the man's presence and then her mind traveled back nearly two thousand years. She saw mentally a woman taken by certain self-righteous Pharisees, before One who was without sin. The words spoken upon that memorable occasion reechoed in her ears. The reply, too, of the Master in all its ners as this man, whom the woman with her delicate sensibilities, had refused to permit to remain in the same room with her. Yet the woman professed to follow the meek and lowly Jesus, professed, indeed, to be a devout believer in the mission of her Redeemer. Was her conduct consistent with her profession of faith? You who read these lines may answer. Feet, after she had first washed them with her tears and wiped them dry with her luxuriant tresses. The Master did not banish this sinner from his Presence. He even permitted her to kiss his feet on this occasion. And when the self-righteous Pharisee 144 forgave most, loved that Master most. Was not the scene which was acted in the dining room cf this institution that day a great contrast to the one which occurred in that house in Palestine almost two thousand years ago? After these many years of professed Christianity, shall we still advocate and practice the same self-righteousness that was practiced by those whom the Master we acknowledge as divine, has denounced as not being of him? Is it not time for us who call ourselves Christians to cease throwing stones and more truly help those who are repentant sinners to arise again? We cannot do so by drawing our garments aside lest perchance contact with the unfortunate shall contaminate us. When our Lord was reproached by his enemies for eating with publicans and sinners, this was his reply, "I come not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance."" And, said he, "They who are whole need not a physician.' Only the selfrighteous Pharisee prays, "God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican." Remember, the poor, sinning publican standing afar off, who would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, hut smote upon his breast saying, '"God, be merciful to me, a sinner,' was more justified in the sight of God than was the other. How many of us today practice introspection? Those of us who do so know whether we are truly followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, or whether we are just Pharisees after all; Pharisees who are throwing stones or mud to thwart the plans of him who was lifted upon the Cross that he might draw all men unto him from the darkness unto light. To obey the law is to be a true democrat. If every man thinks every law must suit him in order that he shall obey it, he is not a democrat but an anarchist. The basis of good government is obedience to law as people have determined it to be. Young men should be trained to know that to be patriotic and democratic members of society they must realize what it means, not only what it means to obey, but to instill the act of obedience in others.?