Guide Lessons for May LESSON I Theology Lesson (First Week in May) The Parables of the Savior A. Parable of the Leaven. "Another parable spake he unto them: The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven, which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened." Matt. 13:33, The power of a right idea is invincible, whether it is put into the mind of the child or the youth or the adult; silently it works as the leaven in the meal, fulfilling the poetic declaration that: "Truth crushed to earth will rise again The eternal years of God are hers; While error wounded writhes in pain, And dies amid her worshipers." Overcome Evil With Good.?The idea contained in this gem of thought is leaven that is working in the mind of the individual, in the mind of the nation, in the mind of the world. It will work on until the whole is leavened. The universal uplift and the triumph of this idea is inevitable. As an apt illustration of the operation of faith leaven in the mind of a child, the student is cited to a poem, The Joyful Truth, in the February issue of the . B. The Hidden Treasure. "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hid in a field; the which when a man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field." This parable is recorded by Matthew only, 13:44, This parable seemingly has one great object, the teaching of the paramount value of the kingdom of God. It is not a lesson in ethics, but one in the choice of values. The finding of the treasure was a source of joy, and the appreciation of the value awakens in the finder a determination to have legal possession of it even at the cost of all his previous possessions, Almost universally, converts to the gospel gladly set aside their old notions, be they ever so dear, to obtain the blessings of the Kingdom of Heaven; and moreover, they will sacrifice all. Earthly possessions if necessary, and their experience is that they 152 find the highest joy in this one possession?the gospel with its testimony and privileges. What are dollars and cents to the Latter-day Saint father and mother in comparison to missionary experiences for their boy and girl? All the other members of the family are willing to forego the comforts of life for the brother or sister to pass on in the kingdom, and the young man willingly interrupts a career "to be about his Father's business." All who share in these sacrifices are sharers in the purchase of the field where the hidden treasure is. To have the field of labor offered by the church is to own the hidden treasurer. Service in the kingdom makes us a part of the kingdom, and the kingdom a part of us; through it we are in the kingdom and the kingdom in us. The Parable of the Pearl of Great Price "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchantman seeking goodly pearls; who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it." Matt. 13:45-46. "In our own country we generally estimate the amount of a man's wealth by the size of his bank account, by the extensive-. Ness of his landed property, the sort of a house he lives in, and the manner in which he extends his hospitalities or his entertainments. In our Lord's time and country a different standard obtained. There you could not always tell how much a man was worth by looking at his clothes or at the house he lived in. You enter a house of clay walls and a roof thatched with straw or reeds, you find an ill-dressed. Man sitting there amid the coarsest furniture on a piece of carpet which forms his seat by day and bed by night; and yet that man may be the wealthiest person you have ever seen. He has his wealth invested in jewels, and for a very good reason. In oriental countries sudden invasions often take place and great rebellions and revolutions frequently arise where cruel tyrants oppress their people; so in order that a man's wealth may be more easily hidden, or securely removed in case of flight, it is in most cases put into the shape of jewels. In this form, and carried about the person or hid in the tresses of a woman's hair, great fortunes have often been carried from place to place in the East. If we remember this fact it will help us to understand the value which God puts upon his people in calling them his jewels and to see the full meaning of the figure which Jesus used to represent the blessings of his salvation, as one 'pearl of great price,' which all other property and jewels should be sold to obtain." Hollman's Bible Commentary. This parable differs from the parable of the hidden treasure GUIDE LESSONS 153 in that the treasure seeker was prospecting in the open field of nature, in the one instance; while in the other instance the man was looking for treasures previously possessed by some one else. Both parables teach the lesson that the Kingdom of God cannot be obtained either by partial payment or half-heartedness. The price in both cases is the giving up of one's whole self. In this parable the merchantman has been a dealer in gems, in search of goodly pearls. The price of the pearl is all the other pearls; it is the all of the great and the all of the small alike, and nothing less and nothing more. The purchase of this pearl can not be made through any sort of an Ananias and Sapphira deal. The first great essential is honesty of heart, a yearning from within, proclaiming the necessity for endlessness of existence, and then he reads, "that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." John 3:16, And then there comes to him the inspiration of the Almighty, declaring in favor of the yearning within and in favor of the words of Christ. The truth-seeker places a higher value on the divine declaration than he does on the theoretical findings and willingly gives them all for the revelations of God, attested by his individual testimony. 1. Quote Lowell on the power of truth as a leavening force. 2, Wherein is the overcoming of evil with good the kingdom of heaven in action? 3. Read in the class the poem that illustrates the planting of faith leaven in the mind of the child. 4. What is a joyous sacrifice? Illustrate.. 5. Read or relate the story of Ananias and Sapphira. 6. What is the most important lesson to be learned by the parable of the hidden treasure? LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in May) 154 LESSON III Literature (Third week in May) JAMEs Russell Lowely (Continued) We have read that the great educator, Horace Mann, "'championed the sacreligious use of Mr. Auburn cemetery, where persons were buried with no reference to which way they would face | when Gabriel blows his trumpet." This story reminds us of the distance between our time and the time when devout and sincere persons argued over trifles of that sort. It also introduces to us the name of a cemetery a short distance from the heart of Cambridge, Massachusetts, where many persons of distinct achievement, in many lines, have found a last resting place. Here Longfellow and Lowell are buried, and also the great actor, Edwin Booth. Within the city of Cambridge, few places have attracted as much attention as have the homes of Longfellow and Lowell. Already, in our lesson on Longfellow, we have devoted some space to the old Cragie house where the author of Paul Revere's Ride found a home. This home had been purchased from its owner for Longfellow. Lowell occupied the ancestral home of the Lowells, in Cambridge. In the year 1904, it was our good fortune to visit the Lowell home, a frame house of three stories in height, painted buff, with windows and doors of white. On the top story there were three windows, as also on the second story, but the third story contained a beautiful, old-fashioned arched door between the two windows. The grounds were attractive in the highest degree, containing a goodly number of those lovely elms which have been for many years the pride of New England, and perhaps somewhat especially of Cambridge. Grass, as well as flowers, that were often made to bloom in the poet's verses, were there in great abundance. The care-taker made us very much at home, and as we left he picked a fringed gentian and presented it to us?the little gentian of the poet's verses. By the time you come to this lesson, the dandelion will be in bloom. Place on the stand, if possible, a bunch of dandelions and read to the class Lowell's famous lines to the dandelion. You will find no better illustration in literature of the ability of a great mind and a great heart to find beauty in the commonest things of nature. In the year 1847, the year that the pioneers entered the Salt Lake Valley, Lowell parted with his first child, a little girl called Blanche. In the year 1849, he stood in his home looking out of the window, across to Mt. Auburn cemetery, on a typical winter day GUIDE LESSONS 155 in New England. With the thought of the little grave covered with snow, he wrote the following lines: "The snow had begun in the gloaming, _ And busily all the night Had been heaping field and highway With a silence deep and white. Every pine and fir and hemlock Wore ermine too dear for an earl, And the poorest twig on the elm-tree Was egded inch deep with pearl. From sheds new-roofed with Carrara Came Chanticleer's muffled crow, The stiff rails were softened to swan's-down, And still fluttered down the snow. I stood and watched by the window The noiseless work of the sky, And the sudden flurries of snow-birds, Like brown: leaves whirling by. I thought of a mound in sweet Auburn Where a little headstone stood; How the flakes were folding it gently, ' As did robins the babes in the wood. Up spoke our own little Mabel, Saying, "Father, who makes it snow?" And I told of the good All-Father Who cares for us here below. Again I looked at the snow-fall, And thought of the leaden sky That arched o'er our first great sorrow, When that mound was heaped so high. I remembered the gradual patience That fell from that cloud like snow, Flake by flake, healing and hiding The scar that renewed our woe. And again to the child I whispered, "The snow that husheth all, Darling, the merciful Father Alone can make it fall!" Then, with eyes that saw not, I kissed her; And she, kissing back, could not know 'That my kiss was given to her sister, Folded close under deepening snow." GUIDE LESSONS Pope's "Dunciad." It is a review full of fun touching the leading American authors of the day, but beneath it is the sober judgment of a critic whose estimate of the poets has been established as the years have gone on. Al couplet referring to Edgar Allen Poe is as follows: "There comes Poe, with his Raven, like Barnaby Rudge, Three-fifths of him genius, and two-fifths sheer fudge." His reference to William Cullen Bryant, suggests Bryant's dignity and stately reserve. He says: "If he stir you at all, it is just, on my soul, Like being stirred up with the very North Pole." After he had paid his compliments to his colleagues, ie turned to himself and gives us an estimate of his own work which is surprisingly true to the general estimate of him: "There is Lowell, who's striving Paranassus to climb- With a whole bale of isms tied together with rime; He might get on alone, spite of bramble and boulders, But he can't with that bundle he has on his shoulders; The top of the hill he will ne'er come nigh reaching, Till he learns the distinction 'twixt singing and preaching; His lyre has some chords that would ring pretty well, But he'd rather by half make a drum of the shell, And rattle away till he's old as Methusalem, At the head of a march to the last New Jerusalem." The "Biglow Papers" were exceedingly popular in Lowell's day and people watched as eagerly and read as persistently Lowell's Biglow Papers' as we read the story of "The Gumps" and the doings of "Mutt and Jeff" today. They appeal to the same strain of humor in our nature. Pancoast says that Lowell could be "nobly strenuous or inimitably humorous." A good example of this latter fact is found in the "Biglow Papers," and as we think Mr, Pancoast's discussion of these papers is exceptionally good, we include what he says in the lesson. "Taken as a whole, the 'Biglow Papers' form one of our most noteworthy contributions to literature. It is often said, and quite truly, that no other country but New England could have produced them. Hawthorne embodies the Puritan spirit: Lowell here brings us face to face with the every-day Yankee, in undeniable flesh and blood. Lowell loved the flavor of the common speech, and by a single effort he has lifted the twang, the drawl, the quaint phrases of the down-east countryman, into literature. From this aspect the 'Biglow Papers' are local; but they are 158 much more?they are among our few distinctly national poems, more fully and truly American than 'Hiawatha' or "The Courtship of Miles Standish.? While they represent New England, they also represent much that is best in the American people?the clear-sightedness, the shrewd humor, the essential rightness on 'great moral issues, which are deep-seated in our democracy. Lowell might have expressed the views advanced in the 'Biglow Papers' in that scholarly phrase or that elevated verse which would have been his own natural medium, but he believed that the moral sense of the plain average American man was sound and true; and so, instead of speaking for himself individually, in his. Own way, he instinctively chose to speak as a plain man of the people, in homely, pithy phrase. Hence we have in the '"Biglow Papers' not the scholar writing from his library, but the voice of the nation. As a work of art the poem holds a high and distinctively unique place among the satires of the language, differing widely in form and spirit from the satiric masterpieces of Dryden, Pope, Butler, or Byron. The mixture of humor and deadly earnest is a national trait, and the "Biglow Papers' differ from many English satires in mingling wit and absurdity with a genuine poetic beauty and a spirit of the intensest patriotism." QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Lowell's poem, "To a Dandelion" will be found in any complete edition of Lowell's poems, and also on page 162, this magazine. Read it and see if the poem succeeds in making the flower mean more to you than it ever has meant before. 2. What does Lowell mean when he speaks of the noiseless work of the sky? 3. List the various objects to which Lowell has compared snow. Is he happy in his comparisons and metaphors? 4. Where was the old elm tree located with reference to Harvard University?. 5. What does Lowell mean when he says that three-fifths of Poe's Raven is genius and the other two-fifths sheer fudge? 6. Do you think the emotions Lowell experienced, while writing "The First Snow Fall' have frequently been duplicated in the experiences of men and women? 7. 'We should like the teacher to select a passage from the Biglow Papers that she thinks both humorous and interesting and read it to the class, GUIDE LESSONS 159 LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in May) STUDYING A SOCIAL PROBLEM It is usually some acute social problem that makes a person turn to a friend or agency for help. It may be illness, or the loss of a job. Or perhaps a child has had difficulty in school, or with the truant officer, or with the juvenile court. If parents are unable to meet the difficulties alone, if the strain of insufficient finances, or of ill health, or of behavior problems seem too complex to be dealt with unaided, they turn, with trust and hope, to some friend, or relative, or church, or agency for assistance and guidance. It is extremely important that the advice and assistance given a person in trouble, be of a sound and helpful nature. To act as an adviser and benefactor is a responsible undertaking. To be able to give intelligent advice about human problems requires an understanding of human nature, of social affairs and situations, and their various implications. There is a great danger that the advice and help given a person in distress may be of a superficial nature. For instance,. A person may be in financial straits because he is out of work. The casual adviser would perhaps either help him find a job, or give him assistance until he secured work.. But such a treatment might only touch the surface of the person's difficulty. The condition of unemployment might not be the real problem. It might only be a symptom of or an index to difficulties much deeper rooted. Is the man's unemployment due to unsatisfactory industrial conditions? Is he engaged in seasonal occupation, that always entails a yearly period of unemployment? Or are the causes of a personal nature? Ill health may have forced him to abandon his usual trade, and until his health is regained, he will necessarily be somewhat of an industrial misfit. He may have struggled for years at some work for which he is unfitted, and his work history might show a series. Of failures. Perhaps his emotional instability, or his personal habits make permanent employment difficult. To assist a man, intelligently, to adjust industrially, much must be known of his. Habits, his aptitudes, his training and his work history. His ? own story, his family's opinion, and his former employers' reports. Are all significant in attempting to arrive at a satisfactory adjustment. An insight into an individual's work history often reveals 160. other undesirable social situations. A family, deprived periodically, or for a continued term, of a sufficient income, must frequently lower its standards. In practicing certain economies, the family budget for housing, food, clothing, may have dropped below the accepted social standard. Recreational and educational opportunities may have been curtailed. Physical examinations, dental work, and perhaps minor operations, may have been entirely neglected. Because social problems are so closely related and interwoven, the nature of the first appeal of a person in trouble, does not always indicate the real difficulties to be treated. The present, acute problem of course, needs attention, but merely to pay a family's rent on rent day, or to send a doctor for which the family cannot pay, or to provide food when there is actual want, does not penetrate the real difficulty. It may be necessary for an individual or a family to accept material things?perhaps for a long time. But the assistance that is constructive and kindly and intelligent is of a more understanding character than the mere supplying of material wants. The real adviser to a family in difficulty is one who is concerned about the complete growth of the family as a unit, and of each of its members. The income must be studied and measured, and supplemented if. Necessary. If necessary and possible, the earning power of the family should be increased, by locating more suitable occupations, or perhaps even by additional training. The health and school history of each child should be watched and supervised, and the essentials that make for normal child growth should not be denied any child because of the unfortunate circumstances of his parents, All the members of the family should have opportunity to participate in the community or religious activities of their group. Such an extensive contact with a family, and such inclusive interest and comprehensive supervision cannot be accomplished in a moment. To become a factor and a real friend and adviser requires hours of patient service, and a human interest that is both deep and understanding. Besides, an intimate knowledge of the activities, accomplishments, hopes, friends, backgrounds, and possibilities of each member of the group is needed.. An insight into a family's difficulties and possibilities is possible only when certain concrete facts of health, ages, school records, training, attainments, standards, and work history are understood. This intimate understanding and contact is possible only when the person in difficulty learns to depend and trust completely the motives and sincerity of the friend and benefactor.; Reference: Dr. Edward T. Devine's Normal Life, pages 93-97. GUIDE LESSONS 3 ~ 161 QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Discuss the relation between health and employment. Explain how each causes the other. 2. What happens to a family's standard through a prolonged period of unemployment, and subsequent lack of income? 3. Explain how material distress is only a symptom of other. Social difficulties. 4, Why is intelligent help impossible without a knowledge of personal and intimate facts of the difficulty? 5, Why should all such information be considered sacred and confidential? 6. Show why an interested study of a family makes for greater trust and friendliness on the part of the person in trouble. TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MAY THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME Reverence "Ye shall keep my Sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am the Lord." Lev. 19:30. A. Discuss keeping the Sabbath and proper respect for holy places, temples, houses of worship. B. Refer to the holidays of the month: Mother's Day and Decoration Day. C. Remember these days with due solemnity, not feasting and rejoicing. Sweet mothers! As they pass one sees again Old. Garden walks, old roses, and old loves. More and more does one see and feel that all problems, commercial, national, international, of war and peace, must be settled by love, love for men and love for God?settled by affection, by duties and by rights?Charles F, Thwing. To the Dandelion By James Russell Lowell Dear common flower, that grow'st beside the way, Fringing the dusty road with harmless gold, First pledge of blithesome May, Which children pluck, and, full of pride, uphold, High-hearted buccaneers, joyed that they An Eldorado in the grass have found, Which not the rich earth's ample round May match in wealth, thou art more dear to me Than all the prouder summerblooms may be. Gold such as thine ne'er drew the Spanish prow Through the primeval hush of 'Indian seas, Nor wrinkled the lean brow Of age, to rob the lover's heart of ease; "Tis the Spring's largess, which she scatters now To rich and poor alike, with lavish hand, Though most hearts never understand To take it at God's value, but pass by The offered wealth with unrewarded eye., 'Thow art my tropics and mine Italy; To look at thee unlocks a warmer clime; 'The eyes thou givest me Are in the heart, and heed not space or time: in mid June the goldencuirassed bee Feels' a more summer-like warm ravishment In the white lily's breezy tent, His Not when first From the dark green thy yellow circles burst. Then think I of deep shadows on the grass, Of meadows where in sun the cattle graze, Where, as the breezes pass, The gleaming rushes lean a thousand ways, Of leaves that slumber in a cloudy mass, Or whiten: in the wind, of waters blue That from the distance sparkle through Some woodland gap, and of a sky above, Where one white cloud like a stray lamb doth move. My childhood's earliest thoughts are linked with thee; The sight of thee calls 'back the robin's song, Who, from the dark old tree | Beside the door, sang clearly all day long, And I, secure in childish piety, Listened as if I heard an angel sing With news from heaven, which he could bring Fresh every day to my untainted ears When birds and flowers and I were happy peers. How like a prodigal doth nature seem, When thou, for all thy gold, so common art! Thou teachest me to deem More sacredly of every human heart, Since each reflects scanty gleam Of heaven, and could some wondrous secret show, Did we but pay the love we owe, And with a child's undoubting wisdom look On all these living pages of God's book. In joy its i" Plan now to pursue courses in your specialty under eminent scholars from America's great colleges and universities. The names at the right?the list reads like a page from the Truly an "all-star" faculty, secured after two hall of fame. A NATIONAL Summer School years of negotiating. Will serve for entire six weeks. Summer Quarter?June 9 to Aug. Graduate or under-graduate credit in Education and Psychology, History, Geology and Physical Geography, Botany, Physical and Health Education, Recreational Leadership,.. Economics, Sociology, English and Literature. Courses specially arranged for certification of teachers in service or those preparing for teaching. Advanced and popular courses. First Term: June 9 to July 18 Second Term: July 21 to Aug. Fuition: $25 for 6 or 12 weeks - Write for Full Particulars Scan Zoology, SPECIAL TEACHING FACULTY Prof, Allee, Zoology, University of Chicago. Dr. Angell, Recreational Leadership, Yale, Harvard. Prof. Blackwelder, Geology, Stanford. Prof. Branson, Rural University of N. C Prof. Cowles, Botany, of Chicago. Prof. Franzen, Education, University of California. Prof. Knappen, Geology, University of Kansas. Prof. Merk, History, Harvard. Dr. McLain, Health Education, Detroit. Prof. McCollum, Human Nutrition, Johns Hopkins. Prof. Reed, Agricultural Engineering, Ohio State U. Prof. Thorndike, Psychology and Education, Columbia. Prof. Turner, History, Harvard. Dr. Wood, Physical and Health Education, Columbia. SPECIAL LECTURERS Prof. John Adams, London. W. G. Anderson, Liberty Hyde Bailey, David Starr Jordan, Prof. Shailer Matthews, Dr. E. A. Steiner, Dr. A. E. Winship. Sociology, University of Utah Agricultural College Logan Utah Compare the Pages of the Deseret News with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense?And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY" RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "J am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." BUREAU OF INFORMATION