[Vol5 | May 1918 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Guidance of Children]

Guidance of Children. By Lucy U'riglif Sjioiv. PRAYER. ■'Methinks God must be oft dismayed. Hearing how much our hps have prayed. Seeing the Httle that we do To make the prayers we pray come true." What is prayer? Is it necessary for a child to be taught to pray? How shall I teach my child to pray? Prayer is a wireless message to God, and must be sent under proper conditions, or it will never reach its destination. What are the conditions and how shall we bring the child into a mental attitude to meet them? To get results, he must learn: Faith. Reverence, Consistency, Humility, Sincerity. FAITH. Faith is power. It is the power that controls the worlds, and the foundation of all righteousness, therefore it is necessary to begin by teaching it. but about the only way to teach a child to have faith is for his parents and teachers, by their good example and right living, to lead him to have faith in them and in all mankind. Parents should show him b}- word and deed that they give him everything he asks them for, that their wisdom tells them is right for him to have, and that they also give him many things that he does not ask for. because they love him and know when he tries to be a good child. They may also explain to him why mother does not give the bab}- a hammer and a mirror at the same time, even though he might cry for them. Let his environment be so carefully selected and his parents be so fair and just to all their fellow beings, as to inspire in him a confidence that will be faith-promoting and that will grow and ripen into faith and belief in God. Parents can do much toward promoting this principle by being alert with the power of suggestion and in showing their own faith, the fact that he must also trust God, inust not be overlooked. This point may be nicely illustrated to a child by the following story: A great drouth covered a certain part of the country and the people were praying God to send rain lest their crops all die. .\t one of the prayer meetings a little girl was seen to be carrving 
 an umbrella. This fact afforded amusement to some of her elders and they asked her why she brought her umbrella, to which query she replied: "Why, so I won't get wet when God sends the rain." Parents are directly responsible for the religious development of their children. While religion is inborn, it is one thing that seems not to develop spontaneously, thus showing how responsible parents are, that their children be led to an understanding of the gospel and this responsibility dates back to our first parents. An understanding of all truth then seems to come little by little with nurture and experience and the first and most important step toward unfolding the plan of salvation is for the child to learn to pray, and much conscientious thought should be devoted to methods of teaching it effectively, for each child should be taught in the way that will appeal to him, in order to produce the best results on such an important subject. Every mother should know what the Scriptures teach us concerning pre-existence, namely: That every child born into this world had a knowledge of the gospel while in the pre-existent state, but lost that knowledge on coming to earth, that he might regain it by his own effort, thereby working out his own salvation, and he does gradually regain it by his own effort, but he can receive valuable assistance and guidance from his parents and teachers in attaining this end and through them, he can learn how to approach the great Giver who said: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally," etc. (Jas. 1:5). The first important step in teaching him to pray after having taught him Faith, is: REVERENCE. Let the little one be alone with mother, away from noise or confusion. He.should kneel, if convenient, and be comfortable while in the attitude of prayer, because if he is not comfortable he will not be able to concentrate his mind, and part of the sacredness of the moment will be lost. Teach him that he is going to talk to God, which is a most sacred thing; that he must be clean in body and his mind should be in a state of peace and composure. He will not be able to learn to whom he prays until the age when reason begins to.develop (about four years), at which time he should learn something of. the personality of God, that he is a personal Being and that he lives in heaven, e. g., "Our Father which art in heaven." CONSISTENCY. The child should learn that it is of greater importance to acknowledge God and thank him for what he has, namely, for his health, his parents, friends, playthings, etc., than to ask for favors. GUIDANCE OF CHILDREN. 261 also that he should use his own intelligence and effort to its full extent to make his prayers come true and to expect God to help him to do his own work, not to do it for him. God loves the prayers of little children, but it is the duty of parents to teach them to be consistent in what they expect of him, and to guide them to an understanding of, "Thy will be done." If the child does not receive what he has asked for, nor the peace and satisfaction that should come to him as a testimony that God has heard his prayer, suggest to him that perhaps he has not conformed that God knows to spiritual that itlaw in his would not prayers, be wise heforis him not to "in have tune"that or which he has asked for; perhaps he has not been sincere nor forgiving, or not approached God with sufficient humility; perhaps he prayed selfishly; and teach him that if he approaches God with reverence, in faith and trusting, having charity and forgiveness in his heart for all men — all these things — then he will invariably be satisfied with the result of his prayer and will be able to feel, "Thy will be done." The child must learn that God is the great Giver of all good and so Jesus taught us, "Give us this day our daily bread." He cannot pray this without acknowledging the source of all blessings and in it he learns that he can never become perfect until able to acknowledge God. HUMILITY. To be humble, one must be forgiving, therefore, "Forgive us our trespasses," etc. Teach the child that the more humble he is, the more he will be endowed with the spirit of forgiveness and that he need not expect his prayers to be answered unless he approach God in humility, willing to forgive the trespasses of others. "Lead us" suggests our need of guidance, and then how important inthese perilous times, "not into temptation" and "deliver us from evil," for is not the adversary working overtime these days tempting us to go astray? Are not these the days spoken of as those in which Satan shall deceive the very elect? Then comes the all-important, "Thine be the glory," for without this there will be no humility and without humility, no prayer could reach heaven. When Jesus said, "After this manner pray ye," he did not mean that we should utter these words exclusively, he meant this prayer as a pattern and, carefully analyzed, it will be found to cover all the principles of truth. These are the principles necessary to conform to, as Jesus gave them to us, and the earlier in life they can be brought to the child's understanding, the more valuable will he be as an instrument in God's hands to further his 
MAGAZINE. work. Having" taught him these i)rinciples. let the child apply them as best he can in his prayers, not conforming to any set type of prayer, lest he lose sincerity and his prayers become a matter of form. Such prayer as the old rhyme. ''Now I lay me down to sleep," is undesirable for the reason that it beocmes a sing-song after a very few repetitions, and then the third line, "If I should die before Iwake" is a very poor sleep suggestion to a child not able to comprehend its full meaning. As a rule, rhyme prayers are not to be encouraged, but if for any special reason, the mother may feel that her child has need of such a prayer, let it be one of good suggestion, e. g.: "Father whom I cannot see, Look down from heaven on little me; Let angels through the darkness spread Their influence around my bed. And keep me safe, for I am The TeachHeavenly me to doShepherd's little lamb; as I am told, And help me to be as good as gold." SINCERITY. Spoken prayers are necessary as well as unuttered prayers, but they must be sincere. While an unuttered prayer or sincere desire may reach God and be answered, God requires spoken prayer, for did he not say, "After this manner pray ye" ? He has also given us other special forms of prayer, as sacrament prayer, prayer for baptism, etc. It is well to have a prayer in one's heart, and it will be understood by God, but it is not enough. The child must learn to express himself to God. Show him how God speaks to us by signs and miracles and expects us to speak to him in acknowledgment of these blessings. Encourage him to pray in secret for these are the most effective of all prayers. In secret prayer he will be able to throw aside all fear and self-consciousness, thereby beconv ing more sincere and there is much accomplished when a child has learned to seek the Lord spontaneously. He will enjoy the 34th chapter of.\lma, which treats of secret prayer, and may form the habit of beginning each day with a little secret prayer. It is the one that is all his own. Teach him appropriate prayers for beginning and closing day, opening and closing meeting, prayer for sick, for the authorities of our Church and for heads of nations; our soldiers. In blessing the food, let him mention the meal, as: Bless the lunch or breakfast. It will teach him to observe, and make the prayer more impressive. Let him always ask a blessGUIDANCE OF CHILDREN. 263 ing on his food. It is an excellent habit for a child to bow his little head without being told, when served to his soup as he comes in from school, and say, "Heavenly Father, I thank thee for this soup; bless it. name of Jesus. Amen." That moment of giving himself to God in peace and quiet will rest him as much as a nap, as well as to teach him faith and confidence in God, To illustrate the necessity of sincerity in prayer, note the following remarkable experience and testimony that came into the life of one of our Latter-day Saint women. She was the mother of three children, two boys and a girl, the latter a most beautiful child in appearance and of lovely disposition. When seven years of age, the little girl was taken ill and died; the father was away at the time and the mother nearly died of grief. She prayed often to God to give her strength to bear this separation from her beloved child, but her grief was so bitter that she became melancholy and refused to be comforted and soon she began to fade like a withered flower until she became a nervous wreck. She could not sleep without taking medicine to induce rest and at last she feared she would lose her reason. One night she arose from her bed and disposed of her sleeping tablets, also a bottle of laudanum which she had at hand, lest in a moment of distraction she might end her life with the drug. After worrying and tossing about in her bed all night in vain efforts to sleep, and when nearing the point of collapse, she knelt down by her bed and with a broken heart and contrite spirit cried: "O God, help me, for I cannot endure this any longer." Instantly there came an answer: "Why, my dear daughter, I would have helped you long ago if you had asked me." This was the first of her prayers that had reached its destination, the first that had been uttered with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, in faith and trusting confidence. References on prayer: Jas. 5:15; Book of Alma, chap. 34; Matt. 26:39; hymn, "Prayer is the Soul's Sincere Desire."