[Vol5 | May 1918 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Guide | Title: Agriculture and Stock Raising Among Book of Mormon Peoples]

The wisdom of a wise policy seldom appears all at once. No doubt the protection from their enemies appeared to the Nephites the chiefest reason why they should build in communities and then go forth from these settlements and till their soil; just as in the pioneer days of Utah the people built forts in which they gathered to protect themselves from the Indians. Protection, however, is only one of the blessings afforded to people who build hamlets, towns and cities, and then go forth to their labors on the farm or in the mine, as necessity requires. All the religious, intellectual and social uplift that is a part of the life of those who live in communities is lost to those who scatter great distances and live on immense farms. Persons thus isolated can seldom gather at the church, the school, the amusement hall, and in too many instances they are without the church, the school and the amusement hall; for the simple reason that being without the community they lack also the valuable assets of community effort. That the Latter-day Saints have made history for themselves in this respect was made most noticeable in 1913, when the National Education Association met in Salt Lake City. Many excursions were made by the visitors into surrounding counties. Again and again, these men, used to school supervision, remarked:"Why, you are practically without the rural school problem; a problem that is proving most vexatious and difficult to cope with in many parts of our country." Now, the same advantage and opportunities that are ours through having grouped ourselves in settlements, were undoubtedly enjoyed in large or small measure by the Nephites. The inspired leadership of President Brigham Young, and the stalwart men and women who builded with him is the source to which we trace the superiority of our community life; and we doubt not, could we hold converse with the Nephites, that they would attribute the advantages of their community life in their agricultural district.^ to precisely similar sources. Another point of resemblance between our methods and their methods of agriculture, will be readily recognized when we say that there is every reason to believe that they knew and applied the science of irrigation in arid regions. In other parts, as with, us, they depended on the rainfall, and were greatly distressed over a season of drought. If the Latter-day Saints are to be distinguished because of what they have contributed to the world's knowledge in relation to irrigation, what shall we say of these former-day Saints, the Nephites, who dwelt upon this continent many centuries ago? 
 PROBLEMS AND QUESTIONS. 1. Why must agriculture be a fundamental vocation of all peoples? 2. Wh)' does a crisis or universal condition in the economic life of the people, bring the importance of agriculture immediately to the fore? Illustrate. 3. Did the peoples of the Book of Mormon know anything of the manufacture of tools to carry on their work? Quote passage in proof of contention. 4. Tell why the Nephites would rejoice greatly when they discovered that such grains as wheat, corn and barley would grow in their new found home. 5. Account for the Nephites finding the cow. horse, oxen and ass, the goat and wild goat, in the woods and forests of this country. 6. Why would you expect the inhabitants of America, if industrious, tohave a great variety of fruit to eat? 7. Would.the Lamanites, when nomadic, caring most for the hunt, have the fruit and grains to eat that the Nephites would? 8. Discuss the advantage coming to people who, living in agricultural districts, build communities and work together. 9. What disadvantage must be borne by persons who, cultivating farms, elect to live on these farms far away from others? 10. What practice that has distinguished the Latter-day Saints in the cultivation of the soil, was in vogue to an extent among the Nephites? LESSON IL Work and Business.