[Vol5 | May 1918 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: MAKING OVER]

MAKING OVER. By Lillian CatDion. In the March number of the Magazine, the subject of darning and patching was discussed. In the making over of old clothes we will consider only that clothing which is no longer fit for the purpose for which it was made. Cutting down or making over is always attended with some waste of material, so it is no war economy to make over anything that can be worn as it is with a little cleaning, darning, or patching. It makes the truly economical person almost weep to see a perfectly good dress of an adult cut down to make a dress for a small child, or a good overcoat of a man cut down to make a child's coat. At the present time there is a shortage of wool in the nation The army and navy need wool clothing. Soldiers and sailors are exposed to the weather and must be protected. Wool material is the only kind that will adequately clothe them. There has been a heavy drain on our production of wool for this purpose. Our supply from Australia is practically cut off as the ships that were used to bring wool to us from that country are now used to carry food to the starving people in Europe. Civilians must economize in wool materials in order to furnish the necessary supply to the army and navy. The problem of wool supply became so serious that the Commercial Economy Board of the Council of National Defense have done what they could to solve it. This Board tries to teach the importance of economy in seemingly trivial things, because the aggregate waste in the nation is large, even in small individual cases. This Board sent representatives to the fashion makers, the tailors and the manufacturers of men's, women's and children's clothing to see if they could help in the matter. All responded patriotically, and as a result cloth which was formerly used for mere ornamentation is now,saved for essential things. One item alone shows what an immense saving in the aggregate is made from slight individual savings. It has been the custom of manufacturers of wool cloth to send large samples to tailors. The Commercial Economy Board thought these samples were unnecessarily generous and asked the manufacturers if they wouldn't reduce the size. This they did only a few inches, but the total savings from a ' comparatively small group of tailors amounted to 223,108 yards.