[Vol33 | August 1946 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Menus—By the Day Or By the Week]

Home Service Director, Mountain Fuel Supply Company

DO you plan your menus by the meal, by the day, or by the week, and have your results been all that you would wish?

Most homemakers find that planning for only one or two meals at a time is likely to result in poorly balanced menus, unnecessary rush and worry and extra shopping, and that money becomes ever scarcer as the end of the month draws ever nearer.

Planning by the week has been found to be much more satisfactory, especially in balancing menus. Some foods are needed every day, and some only three or four times a week. By looking at all seven days at once, we can be certain that all the necessities will be included.

The seven-day plan helps the budget, too. Instead of serving chicken, steak, and chops soon after payday, as we are tempted to do when we plan by the day or meal, we shall find it easy to scatter these delicacies over the week, and thus keep up the family's interest in meals. Having a written market list saves time when we go to the store, for we can buy in one trip all of the staples, canned goods, and potatoes that we shall need during the week.

Of course, menus are subject to change! All of us know that invitations out to dinner, unexpected guests, or other emergencies may alter plans. But this need not be a problem. Perishables can be kept in the refrigerator. Even greens will keep garden fresh in the hydrator sections. Revisions in your meals can be easily made.

Set aside a definite period of time for meal planning. This may require an hour or two if the meals are to be well-balanced from all standpoints, and, at the same time, kept within the bounds of your food allowance!

Thursday or Friday is a good day in which to plan the menus, for you can start with the week-end meals, and any tidbits left from Sunday may be used to good advantage early in the week. It is easier to write out all seven breakfasts first and then to plan the dinners. Finally, balance each day's account nutritionally with the lunches or suppers.

Menus should be simple, and it is well to keep in mind that tasty, nutritious food, spick-and-span cleanliness, attractive table settings, proper table manners, and pleasant conversation all contribute to a successful meal. It is the combination of these, rather than a series of "fancy dishes," that is important!

To make your planning easy, and to be certain that all food essentials are included in your meals, try using the following outlines which have been devised by leading authorities in the field of nutrition, medicine, and homemaking, and which have been accepted as being among the most vital contributions that have been made to good eating in recent years.

MINIMUM DAILY REQUIREMENTS
What to Serve

Group Requirement                    No. of Servings    No. of Servings
                                    Per Day            Per Week

I Yellow or Green Vegetables        At Least One
Artichokes, asparagus, beet greens,
broccoli, brussel sprouts, cabbage,
chard, endive, green peas, kale,
dandelion greens, leaf lettuce,
snap, string, and green beans,
parsley, water cress, green peppers,
spinach, turnip greens, wild greens,
carrots, rutabagas, pumpkins, yellow squash, yellow corn, sweet potatoes, yams, apricots, cantaloupes,
yellow peaches.

II Citrus Fruits, Tomatoes,         At Least One
Cabbage, or Salad Greens
Citrus juices, grapefruit, lemons,
limes, oranges, tangerines, tomatoes, tomato juice, cantaloupes,
muskmelons, raspberries, strawberries, raw cabbage, salad greens.

III Other Fruits and Vegetables      Three
Potatoes, beets, celery, cucumbers,  (Choices in Groups
eggplant, leeks, head lettuce,       I through III
fresh lima beans, mushrooms,         should total 2
onions, parsnips, radishes, sauerkraut, white squash, turnips, apples, avocados, bananas, blackberries, blueberries, cherries, cranberries, currants, dates, figs, gooseberries, grapes, huckleberries, loganberries, mangoes, white peaches, pears, pineapples, persimmons,
plums, prunes, quinces, raisins,
rhubarb, watermelons, youngberries, etc.

IV Milk and Milk Products           3 Cups or More
Whole milk, skim milk, buttermilk, evaporated milk, dried whole
or skim milk, ice cream.            for Children;
                                   2 Cups for Adults
                                   (This includes any
                                   milk used in cooking as well as in
                                   beverages.)

V Meat, Poultry, Fish or           One
Cheese                             (Increase for
(Occasionally, substitute mature    expectant or
pears or beans, nuts, or peanut    nursing mothers.)
butter.)
Beef, veal, lamb, mutton, pork
(except bacon and fat meat);
variety meats such as liver, heart,
kidney, brains, tongue, sweetbreads, tripe; lunch meats, such as
balogna; rabbit, chicken, duck,
game, goose, guinea, squab, turkey,
fish, and shellfish.
Dried black-eyed peas, cowpeas,
kidney beans, lima beans, navy
beans, pinto beans, soybeans, soya
flour and grits, lentils, etc.
Peanuts and peanut butter, nuts
of all kinds.

Eggs                               No Less Than
Fresh, dried, or frozen.           3 to 4 a Week

VI Cereals and Bread               Two
(enriched or whole grain)
Bread:
Whole-wheat, enriched white,
pumpernickel, oatmeal bread.

Crackers:
Made from enriched white, whole
grain, rye, or soya flour.

Cereals:
Rolled oats, brown rice, wholewheat . . . . others, if labeled
"whole grain" or "enriched."
Yellow Cornmeal

VII Fats                           1/2—1 TableButter or Fortified Margarine    spoon
Other fats as used in cooking.

VIII Any Other Food You Want       As Desired

Careful scrutiny of this pattern will show that each group of the daily requirements can be adapted to various seasons as well as pocketbooks, for the choice from each group is left entirely to the individual. You may make any choice from within the group so long as you choose something from each group.

MENU PATTERNS
The following patterns should be used as guides rather than inflexible rules to be followed precisely. Breakfast, lunch, and dinner patterns are given.

BREAKFAST
Fruit or fruit juice (Group II or III)
Cereal with milk (Groups IV and VI)
Bread and butter (Groups VI and VII)
Milk to drink (Group IV)

LUNCH
Soup, if desired
Main dish:
  Meat, fish, poultry, cheese, or egg dish (Group V)
  or
  Substantial dish of vegetables, cheese, or eggs
Vegetable or salad (Groups I, II, or III)
Bread and butter (Groups VI and VII)
Simple dessert (any group)
Milk to drink (Group IV)

DINNER
Meat, fish, or poultry (Group V)
Potato or substitute (Group III)
Vegetable (Group I preferred)
Salad (Groups I, II, or III)
Bread and butter (Groups VI and VII)
Dessert (any group)
Milk to drink (Group IV)

These patterns are sufficiently flexible to meet the needs of any family, and food from the eight groups can be used in any combination desired. The important thing is to check your daily menu against the basic requirements to be sure that all of the food essentials are included.

With a little experience in planning by the week, and using these guides, you will find menu-making much simpler, and you will have the satisfaction of knowing that you are serving your family well-balanced, attractive meals at a reasonable cost.