[Vol33 | August 1946 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The Importance of Sonne]

They are fundamentally and _ essentially progressive, and point the way to a better and a more satisfying life. THE IMPORTANCE OF THRIFT EXTRAVAGANCE is misdirected and wasted energy. It is the road that leads to poverty and disappointment. It undermines character and robs one of the power to proceed safely and constructively. It is a source of embarrassment and discomfiture, and frustrates all] plans and purposes for better living and a more comfortable existence. It comes from a craving for things to which people are not entitled until they have worked and saved to provide such enjoyment and possession.
There is no grander spectacle in the world than that of a husband and wife girding their loins for the battle of life, all barriers crumbling before them. To them belong the fruits of honest labor and persistent effort..
Waste in any form is an enemy to the individual, the home, and the nation. Brigham Young said: Let nothing go to waste.
Never consider that you have bread enough around you to suffer your children to waste a crust or a crumb of it. If a man is worth millions of bushels of wheat and corn, he is not wealthy enough to suffer his servant girl to sweep a single kernel of it into the fire.
Remember it, do not waste anything, but take care of everything.
Such was the economic philosophy of the great pioneer colonizer whose wisdom and leadership subdued deserts, built towns and cities, and established a thriving commonwealth. But, above all things, Brigham Young was anxious to preserve the stability of the home.
Waste and extravagance have wrecked homes and brought despair and misery to many families, Too many young people, as they assume the responsibility of home- 509 making, insist on beginning married life with all the comforts and conveniences of their parental home.
They fail to take into consideration the long struggle and the frugal habits which have made possible the establishment and maintenance of that home.
Often the parents are too indulgent with children and permit them to set up standards and to form habits far beyond their power and ability to sustain. The excessive use of the family automobile has lured many a youth away from the path of industry and duty.
Extravagant tastes in the matter of food, clothing, amusements, and such other demands as clever advertising  promotes, have been allowed to develop without regard for the welfare and security of home and family. Frequently, a selfish desire and an unworthy ambition to outflaunt neighbors and friends, regardless of the means at one's disposal, are back of many ill-advised and unnecessary expenditures.
National thrift is a bulwark against chaos and disintegration. It begins in the homes of the people, for no nation can rise above the stability, the integrity, the sanctity, and the coherence of its family group.
Whatever perils the family, perils the nation. The laws of progress and growth are eternal. The pioneers survived because they were thrifty and industrious.
They developed the virtue to struggle and wait and to possess their souls in patience.
They looked ahead and made provisions for the future.

The Importance of Thrift (Continued from page 509) established themselves firmly and securely "in the midst of the Rocky Mountains." Thrift is rooted deeply in human life and reflects the character of a people. Personal discipline and personal sacrifice are necessary to a strong character. Relief for the unfortunate and those handicapped calls for a great emotion, and can be supplied only by those who work and save. The modern world has been beguiled into a false sense of security and, sooner or later, it must learn that no social device can take the place of thrifty habits, frugal living, and hard work, in making people economically secure and politically free and independent.
Night Callers (Continued from page 525) his speech lapsed into his native Shoshone. Turning, he summoned his braves to his side and ordered all his people to come to the great lodge. The lodge was a high, long tepee, covered with buffalo skins and filled, for decoration, with the heads of many animals. Nancy and her children were given the seat of honor beside the chief and his braves. The celebration began with a tribal dance. A young brave, dressed in brilliant scarlet and black, came into the center of the lodge. Thirty braves, painted and enveloped in beads and tiny bells, formed a large circle around him. At the sound of his drum, they all began moving in perfect unison. The dance was followed by a feast. Pumpkin, potatoes, corn, deer steaks, everything that the tribe had, was brought to Nancy, seated beside the chief. At the close of the feast, Nancy explained to her host her need for returning to her cabin in' the valley. Chief Many Feathers consented, and accompanied them down the mountain into the valley. They arrived at the door of the cabin just as the sun was slipping behind the peaks of the western mountains. As there were no wagon tracks in the soft, powdery earth, Nancy knew that Jim had not yet returned. At the door of the cabin, Chief Many Feathers stopped. Raising his arms, he removed a beautiful handwoven red, yellow, and blue blanket from around his broad shoulders. Stooping, he gently placed it around Nancy, and, for the first time, his face lost its stern look of noble dignity in a smile. He said, "Great Spirit of Shoshone children, keep evil one from wigwam of white princess." Nancy, unable to speak, grasped a hand of each of her children, and through her tears she watched the great chief swiftly climb the mountain path back to his people. LESSON Theology Church History Lesson I8
The Priesthood Quorums Expanded Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, November 5, 1946
