[Vol33 | August 1946 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Lesson | Title: Optional Lessons in Lieu of Literature: The General Gospel Plan Elder T. Edgar Lyon]
y^yptional  JLessons  in  JLieu  of  JLiterature 
The  Gospel  as  a  Way  of  Life 
Lesson  2— The  General  Gospel  Plan 
Elder  T.  Edgar  Lyon 
For  Tuesday,   November    ig,    1946 
AS  pointed  out  in  the  lesson 
last  month,  one  great  prin- 
ciple which  we  struggled  to  main- 
tain in  the  pre-existence  was  that 
of  individual  free  agency.  As 
a  necessary  step  for  the  utilization  of 
this  principle,  the  earth  was  created 
and  we  were  given  mortal  existence. 
Earth  life  thus  became,  in  reality,  a 
laboratory  in  which  mortals  were  to 
exercise  the  gift  of  free  agency  in 
the  choice  of  good  and  evil.  We  be- 
lieved in  this  plan  so  intently  that 
we  accepted  the  responsibility  of 
earth  life  without  any  guarantee  of 
our  ultimate  exaltation.  It  was  a 
time  ''when  the  morning  stars  sang 
together,  and  the  sons  of  God 
shouted  for  joy"  (Job  38:7). 
Mankind  was  thus  placed  upon 
the  earth  to  pass  through  a  period  of 
apprenticeship  that  would  be  a  pre- 
paration for  the  next  step  in  eternal 
progression.  Certain  things  were 
expected  of  those  who  accepted  mor- 
tality. First,  obedience  to  the  com- 
mandments of  God  was  anticipated. 
And  one  that  was  like  unto  God 
had  said,  "And  we  will  prove  them 
herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all 
things  whatsoever  the  Lord  their 
God  shall  command  them"  (Abra- 
ham 3:25).  From  this  scripture  it 
is  evident  that  obedience  to  divine 
law  is  the  first  requirement  for  re- 
admittance    into    the   presence    of 
God,  but  it  is  merely  the  mininmm 
requirement. 
A  second  obligation  in  connection 
with  the  use  of  free  agency  and  its 
exercise  is  that  of  taking  the  initi- 
ative to  do  more  than  give  mere 
obedience  to  specific  command- 
ments. The  Lord  has  instructed  us 
to  watch  for  opportunities  to  render 
service  to  others  and  assume  the 
responsibility  of  taking  the  initiative 
in  such  matters. 
For  behold,  it  is  not  meet  that  I  should 
command  in  all  things;  for  he  that  is 
compelled  in  all  things,  the  same  is  a 
slothful  and  not  a  wise  servant;  wherefore 
he  receiveth  no  reward. 
Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously 
engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do  many 
things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring  to 
pass   much    righteousness; 
For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein  they 
are  agents  unto  themselves.  And  inas- 
much as  men  do  good  they  shall  in  no- 
wise lose  their  reward. 
But  he  that  doeth  not  anything  until 
he  is  commanded  and  receiveth  a  com- 
mandment with  doubtful  heart,  and  keep- 
eth  it  with  slothfulness,  the  same  is  damn- 
ed .  .  .   (Doc.  and  Gov.  58:26-29). 
This  scripture  is  positive  in  its 
teaching  that  the  Lord  requires 
us  to  do  more  than  merely  observe 
commandments.  We  must  be  pre- 
pared to  go  ''the  second  mile" 
(Matt.  5:41). 
There  is  a  third  item  that  needs 
to  be  observed  in  connection  with

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
567 
our  earthly  probation.  It  is  the  atti- 
tude of  mind  that  we  should  have 
toward  life  itself  and  the  problems 
that  present  themselves  in  the  course 
of  life.  Instead  of  viewing  life  as  a 
mournful  burden  to  be  tolerated 
but  not  enjoyed,  God  would  have  us 
take  an  optimistic  view  of  life,  and 
rejoice  in  the  process  of  seeking  sal- 
vation. The  Book  of  Mormon 
prophet,  Jacob,  expressed  this  idea 
as  follows: 
Therefore,  cheer  up  your  hearts,  and 
remember  that  ye  are  free  to  act  for  your- 
selves— to  choose  the  way  of  everlasting 
death  or  the  way  of  eternal  life  (II  Nephi 
10:23). 
In  this  dispensation  the  Lord  re- 
iterated this  doctrine  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  In  speaking 
of  observing  the  Lord's  day  and  oth- 
er religious  requirements,  the  revela- 
tion reads  in  part,  '\  .  .  do  these 
things  with  thanksgiving,  with  cheer- 
ful hearts  and  countenances  .  .  ." 
(Doc.  and  Gov.  59:15). 
A  fourth  obligation  of  free  agents 
who  have  accepted  the  gospel  is  to 
be  diligent  in  the  use  of  their  agency 
for  the  welfare  of  the  Ghurch.  Al- 
though the  Lord  has  placed  inspired 
leadership  at  the  head  of  the  Ghurch, 
there  is  also  a  strong  element  of  de- 
mocracy in  it.  Ordinations  to  the 
Priesthood,  selection  of  officers,  and 
other  functions  demand  that  the 
inspired  nominations  by  the  ap- 
appointed  leaders  be  ratified  or  re- 
jected by  the  membership.  It  is  a 
fundamental  teaching  of  the  Lord 
to  the  Ghurch  that  "And  all  things 
shall  be  done  by  common  consent  in 
the  Ghurch  .  .  ."  (Doc  and  Gov. 
26:2;  see  also  28:13).  This  teaching 
demands  that  each  free  agent  exer- 
cise his  agency  in  the  sustaining  or 
rejecting  of  these  propositions. 
One  of  our  latter-day  prophets, 
John  Taylor,  had  very  positive  opin- 
ions concerning  the  use  of  his  agen- 
cy. He  viewed  it  not  only  as  a 
God-given  blessing,  but  also  as 
something  that  he  was  required  to 
use  to  the  best  of  his  ability.  The 
following  quotation  is  indicative  of 
his  attitude: 
I  have  felt  very  decided  .  .  .  ever  since 
I  could  comprehend  anything;  that  I  would 
worship  God  as  I  pleased,  without  any- 
body's dictation,  and  that  I  would  dictate 
to  no  man  his  faith,  neither  should  any 
man  dictate  to  me  my  faith  .  .  .  (B.  H. 
Roberts,  Life  of  John  Taylor,   pp.   422, 
423)- 
From  the  foregoing  scriptural  quo- 
tations and  observations,  it  is  ap- 
parent that  the  free  agency  of  man 
is  a  divine  principle.  Furthermore, 
it  places  on  mankind  a  tremendous 
responsibility  for  all  human  con- 
duct. Few  of  us  seem  to  fully  sense 
either  the  true  value  of  agency  or  our 
responsibilit}'  to  make  an  intelligent 
use  of  it. 
In  his  letter  to  the  saints  at 
Rome,  the  apostle  Paul  defined  the 
gospel  of  Ghrist  as  ".  .  .  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation  to  every  one 
that  believeth  .  .  ."    (Rom.  1:16). 
Brigham  Young  stated  this  idea 
with  great  clarity  when  he  said: 
The  Gospel  of  the  Son  of  God  that 
has  been  revealed  is  a  plan  or  system  of 
laws  and  ordinances,  by  strict  obedience  to 
which  the  people  who  inhabit  this  earth 
are  assured  that  they  may  return  again 
into  the  presence  of  the  Father  and  the 
Son   [Discourses  of  Brigham  Young,  page 
These  statements  indicate    that 
there    are    two    elements    in    the 
gospel— one  is  the  saving  power  of

568  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1946 
God,  the  other  is  the    effort    that  Jesus  was  completed,  that  the  gospel 
people  put  forth  to  make  their  lives  plan  was  finally  consummated.  It  is 
conform  to  God's  prescribed  way  of  for  this  reason  that  we  should  feel 
living.  especially  blessed  to  be  allowed  to 
A  thoughtful  reading  of  the  scrip-  come  to  earth  in  this,  the  dispensa- 
tures  indicates  that  Christ  was  not  tion  of  the  fulness  of  tmies,  when 
teaching  a  mere  system  of  belief.  His  the  knowledge  of  all  former  gospel 
message  demanded  action.    Recall  ^ges  has  been  revealed  to  us. 
tlie  parables  of  the  good  Samaritan  A  person  once  said:  "If  you  are 
(Luke  10:25-37);  the  prodigal  son  looking    for    rest,    relaxation,    and 
(Luke  15:11-32);    the    lost    sheep  ease,     don't     join     the     Mormon 
(Luke   15:3-7);  and   the  lost  coin  Church.   They  don't  even  contem- 
(Luke  15:8-10);  and  many  others,  plate  these  things  in  their  heaven, 
Each    parable    demonstrates     that  to  say  nothing  of  finding  them  on 
work  is  required  of  the  true  Chris-  earth."    He    probably    thought    he 
tian.    The  man   who    fell    among  was  witty,  but  he  really  spoke  the 
thieves  on  the  Jericho  road  was  not  truth.   Some  of  the  most  appealing 
helped  until  the  Samaritan  rendered  teachings  of  the    restored    Church 
service.    The  prodigal  son  was  not  ^"e  those  of  never-ending  develop- 
benefited  until  he  made  the  decision  ment,  opportunity  for  creative  activ- 
to   return  to  his   father.    The  lost  ity,  and  progression  toward  a  state 
sheep  was  not  found  until  the  shep-  of  godhood.  Many  people,  however, 
herd  went  after  it.  Tlie  lost  coin  was  view    these    interesting    ideals    as 
recovered  only    after    the    woman  things  that  are  to  be  confined  to  the 
swept  the  house  and  sought  diligent-  hereafter.    The  true  interpretation 
ly  for  it.    One  of  the  frequent  ad-  that  the  gospel  teaches  us,  however, 
monitions  of  Jesus,  at  the  conclusion  is  that  today  and  yesterday  are  just 
of  a  parable  or  illustration  was,  "Go,  as  much  a  part  of  eternity  as  any 
and  do  thou  likewise"  (Luke  10:37).  ^^^'  ^^^^*  ^^  *^  ^^"^^-   ^^^^  concept. 
The  gospel  of  Christ  is    thus,    in  if  properly  understood,  should  stimu- 
reality,  a  way  of  living  and  acting,  late  each  Church  member,  each  day, 
instead  of  just  a  way  of  believing.  to  make  the  most  of  his  opportuni- 
The  goal  of  mortal  existence  is  to  ties  for  progress,   service,  and   de- 
struggle  upward  through  obedience  velopment. 
to  God's  commands,  the  rendering 
of  service,  and  belief  in  God  and  I"  discussing  this  interpretation, 
Christ,  to  a  state  of  exaltation.  Jesus  Brigham  Young  said: 
had  this  in  mind  when  he  said,  "Be 
ve  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  ,  ^""^^  '''y  ^^''\  "^^''' '' ""  miserable  world. 
v-   ,  1             1  •  1      •      ■       1                 •  '    <^'<>  "<>t  care  how  soon   1   get   throneli. 
Father  which   is  in   heaven  is  per-  ^y^u^  g^  ^^^  destroy  yourselves,  if  you 
feet  (Matt.  5:48).  choose.   ...   I   do  not  believe   that   the 
We  are  taught  that  the  gospel  in  Lord  delights  in  people  who  wish  to  die 
its  fulness  is  an  unchanging  plan  of  before  they  have  aeeomplished  the  work 
salvation.    However,  it  has  not  al-  '^''l  \'  t'^§"^^  .^°^  l^'"?.  '°  ^°-  •  ; " 
,           ,               .  ^   .       -  T              ^  Instead    or   preparing   to   die,   prepare    to 
ways  been  known  m  its  fulness.     It  n^^  j^  the  midst  of  all  the  exaltations  of 
was  not  until  after  the  atonement  of  the  Gods.    We  are  organized  for  the  ex-