[Vol33 | August 1946 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Menus By the Day Or By Walton]
Menus — By  the  Day  Or  By  the  .Week  
 Phyllis  Snow  536 
FICTION 
Night   Callers         „   _   Gladys    Dewey  522 
Faith   Is   a  Heritage — Chapter  5    ..._ 
 „./....^;   Christie   Lund   Coles  542 
GENERAL  FEATURES 
Sixty  Years  Ago  .      532^ 
Woman's   Sphere   
 _~j,   Ramona    W.    Cannon  533 
Editorials:      Personal   Development   Through    Service      .i^l  Gertrude   R.    Garff  534 
May  Anderson — Friend  of  the  Children  
    535 
Notes  to  the  Field:     Annual  Relief  Society  General  Conference  _ 
  535 
Notes  From  the  Field:    General  Activities  and  Special  Programs — (Continued)   
  General  Secretary-Treasurer,  Margaret  C.  Pickering  546 
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
Theology:     The  Priesthood  Quorums  Expanded    *   Elder   H.    Wayne   Driggs  551 
Visiting  Teachers'   Messages:     Love   of  Fellow  Man   .....'^  President  Amy  Brown  Lyman  554 
Work  Meeting — Sewing:     The  Use   of   Tools  and  Treatment  of   Materials    
  Work    Meeting    Committee  555 
Literature:     Colonial  Founders  of  America  in  Literature    Elder  Howard  R.   Driggs  557 
The    Mayflower   Compact    
  565 
Optional  Lessons  in  Lieu  of  Literature:     The  General  Gospel  Plan    Elder  T.  Edgar  Lyon  566 
Social   Science:      The   Family   Organization     Social    Science    Committee  570 
POETRY 
And  What  of  Time — Frontispiece  
 Mabel  Jones  Gabbott  505 
Self-Confidence   
 Katherine    Fernelius    Larsen  514 
Skull   Valley   
 Beatrice    K.    Ekmon  516 
%■«     Stranger    
 Jessie    Miller    Robinson  530 
J       The  Silent  Bard  
 Evelyn  Fjelsted  531 
#' .."  The   New  Testament  
 Dorothy   J.   Roberts  553 
Maternal    Reverie    
 Delia    Adams    Leitner  564 
Priceless    Gem      _ 
 Ruth    H.    Chadwick  565 
The    Poplars    
 Thelma    Ireland  569 
Late   Traveler  
 Iris   Schow  575 
The  Old  Hooked  Rug  
 G.  Gwen  Kelsey  576 
PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  BY  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
Editorial  and  Business  Offices:  28  Bishop's  Building.  Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah,  Phone  3-2741.  Ex.  243. 
Subscription  Price:  $1.00  a  year;  foreign,  $1.00  a  year;  payable  in  advance.  Single  copy,  10c. 
The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be 
missed.  Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  both  old  and  new  address. 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under 
ihe  act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in 
section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned 
unles3  return  postage  is  enclosed.  Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only. 
The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts. 
MAGAZINE  CIRCULATION,  77,500

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
VOL.  33,  NO.  8  AUGUST  1946 
AND  WHAT  OF  TIME 
Mabel  Jones  Gahhott 
And  what  of  time?    Is  it  a  stream 
That  flows  in  season's  cycles  through 
Life's  valley?   Is  it  running  sand 
That  turns  life's  hourglass  for  you? 
Can  it  be  measured  bv  the  spring, 
The  summer,  the  ensuing  fall, 
Or  charted  into  days  and  months 
To  robin's  chirp  and  wild  geese  call? 
Of  time  there  is  no  measuring. 
For  it  is  boundless.  All  the  days 
Of  yesteryear  are  \oiced  this  da\\n 
In  our  weak,  fumbling,  groping  wa}s; 
And  all  tomorrow's  promise:  all 
Its  dreams  are  inextricably 
Linked  with  the  doings  of  this  hour 
To  fashion  our  eternity. 
The  Cover:   "Mirror  Lake  in  the  High  Uiiitahs."    From  a  photograph  hv  Grace  O.  Tuttle

"•^tlJI^^ 
it    "iWmiiii    I   ni'iTfrfi''iiiirir     t 
Photograph  by  Grace  O.  Tuttle 
"SYMPHONY  IN  BLUE  AND  WHITE" 
White  Daisies  and  Turquoise  Blue  Delphiniums

The  Importance  of  Thrift 
Elder  Alma.  Sonne 
Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
THE  Church,  functioning  and 
operating  through  its  mem- 
bers, is  the  most  effective  char- 
acter building  agency  in  the  world. 
It  has  always  stood  for  right  Hving 
and  constructive  thinking  in  all  the 
phases  of  human  life.  It  stands  for 
intellectual,  moral,  and  spiritual 
progress.  Its  aim  is  to  strengthen 
the  security,  the  happiness,  and  the 
independence  of  every  home,  and 
to  protect  the  family  against  falla- 
cious doctrines,  subversive  tenden- 
cies, and  destructive  forces  that  now 
threaten  the  stability  of  organized 
society. 
The  family  is  the  unit  of  ever}^day 
life.  It  is  the  moral,  spiritual,  and 
economic  unit.  Every  stimulation 
and  encouragement  should  be  given 
to  upbuild  and  protect  the  family 
and  the  home.  Twenty-five  hundred 
years  ago  the  Greek,  Socrates,  told 
his  students  they  would  be  happier 
if  they  would  study  the  problems 
of  the  home  and  such  fundamental 
things  as  thrift,  industry,  and  the 
wise  management  of  the  family  in- 
come. 
Surely,  a  measure  of  financial  in- 
dependence is  as  precious  and  im- 
portant to  men  and  women  as  po- 
litical independence.  It  is  worth 
all  the  striving  and  sacrifice  neces- 
sary for  its  achievement.  Much  of 
the  unhappiness  in  the  world  is  due 
to  poor  economics,  selfish  pleasures, 
and  thoughtless  indulgences.  An 
easy,  carefree  life,  without  purpose 
and  plan,  will  undermine  character 
and  weaken  the  moral  fiber  of  men 
and  women. 
It  has  been  said  that  Charles 
Dickens  regarded  the  parable  of  the 
prodigal  son  as  the  most  beautiful 
story  in  all  literature.  It  is  not  diffi 
cult  to  picture  the  wayward  son  re- 
turning to  his  home,  disillusioned 
and  thoroughly  repentant.  He  had 
"wasted  his  substance  with  riotous 
living."  Worse  still,  he  had  wasted 
his  life  and  dissipated  his  powers. 
Therein  lay  the  tragedy  of  a  spend- 
thrift's life.  Haphazard  use  of  time, 
money,  and  energ}'  means  a  poor 
return  and  is  devoid  of  satisfaction. 
Devotion  to  a  purposeful  plan  calls 
for  strength  and  determination,  and 
lays  the  foundation  for  a  well-order- 
ed, independent  life. 
A  thrift}'  person  looks  ahead;  he 
practices  self  control  and  prepares 
for  emergencies  that  may  arise.  He 
faces  life  with  a  positi\e,  self-reliant 
attitude  and  seeks  to  fit  himself  for 
an  opportunit}'  when  it  comes. 
Abraham  Lincoln's  life  began  in 
a  wretched  home  amid  poverty  and 
discouragements.  By  sheer  determi- 
nation and  a  resolute  spirit,  he 
overcame,  what  appeared  to  be,  an 
insurmountable  handicap.  He  was 
motivated  always  by  a  s^ong  desire 
to  go  forward  and  to  improve  his 
condition.  All  through  his  life  he 
exemplified  the  principles  of  thrift 
and  hard  work,  preparing  carefully 
and  thoughtfully  for  future  responsi- 
bilities.   In    doing    so.    he    gained 
Page  507