[Vol33 | August 1946 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science The Committee]
570 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1946 
Social   Science— TUc  Family  in  the  Gospel  Plan 
Lesson  2— The  Family  Organization 
Social  Science  Committee,  Leone  O.  Jacobs,  Chairman 
For  Tuesday,   November   26,    1946 
Lesson  Link:  In  the  previous  lesson  we  considered  the  eternal  nature  of  the 
family  unit.  We  discussed  briefly  the  pre-existence  as  the  first  stage  of  human  develop- 
ment, then  stressed  the  importance  of  mortality  as  a  proving  ground.  We  learned 
that  marriage  is  ordained  of  God  and  is  to  be  in  effect  throughout  eternity. 
We  shall  now  consider  the  practical  workings  of  the  family  unit,  the  qualities 
that  are  essential  for  harmonious  and  successful  family  life,  and  the  responsibilities  of 
the  various  members  of  the  family  for  the  welfare  of  the  whole. 
TN  genciral  conference  of  April  1945, 
President  David  O.  McKay  de- 
livered a  forceful  address  on  the  sub- 
ject ''Marriage  and  Divorce"  (see 
Improvement  Era  for  May  1945). 
He  pointed  out  that  ''.  .  .marriage  is 
ordained  of  God  unto  man"  and 
that,  through  having  offspring,  man 
enables  the  earth  to  ''answer  the  end 
of  its  creation;  And  that  it  might  be 
filled  with  the  measure  of  man,  ac- 
cording to  his  creation  before  the 
world  was  made"  (Doc.  and  Gov. 
49:15-17). 
President  McKay  states  that: 
Marriage  is  a  sacred  relationship  enter- 
ed into  for  purposes  that  are  well  recog- 
nized— primarily  for  the  rearing  of  a  fami- 
ly. To  look  upon  marriage  as  a  mere  con- 
tract that  may  be  entered  into  at  pleasure 
in  response  to  a  romantic  whim,  or  for 
selfish  purposes,  and  severed  at  the  first 
difficulty  or  misunderstanding  that  may 
arise,  is  an  evil  meriting  severe  condem- 
nation, especially  in  cases  wherein  chil- 
dren are  made  to  suffer  because  of  such 
separation. 
With  such  a  lofty  and  serious 
concept,  how  can  Latter-day  Saint 
husbands  and  wives  have  other  than 
the  deepest  respect  for  the  marital 
bonds? 
It  is  a  wise  providence  that  pro- 
vides two  parents  in  a  family. 
"Nevertheless  neither  is  the  man 
without  the  woman,  neither  the 
woman  without  the  man,  in  the 
Lord"  (I  Gor.  11:11).  One  parent 
cannot  say  to  the  other,  "My  place 
is  more  important  than  yours." 
Latter-day  Saints  beheve  in  the 
equality  of  the  sexes,  each  in  its  own 
sphere.  Woman  is  not  considered 
inferior  to  man  but  only  different 
in  make-up,  as  he,  in  his  way,  is 
different  from  woman. 
The  proper  rearing  of  children  is 
so  complex  and  important  that  it 
requires  the  loving  co-operation  of 
both  a  father  and  a  mother  to  do  it 
full  justice.  Moreover,  the  father 
and  mother,  in  their  divergent  per- 
sonalities, backgrounds,  and  accom- 
plishments, complement  and 
strengthen  each  other,  and  thus 
build  solidarity  into  the  home. 
When  it  becomes  necessary  for  one 
parent  to  assume  the  responsibilities 
of  both,  there  occurs  a  gap  which 
can  never  be  entirely  filled. 
In  genera],  the  responsibility  of 
the  father  in  the  home  is  that  of 
pro\  iding  sustenance  for  the  family 
and  that  of  the  mother  is  the  bearing