[Vol33 | August 1946 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: The New Testament Dorothy J. Roberts]
LESSON  DEPARTMENT  553 
presidents,  members  of  the  Quorum  the  faith  there  can  be  set  up,  im- 
of  the  Twelve,  Seventies,  etc.  mediately,  the  order  of  the  Priest- 
Every  worthy  father  in  Israel  has  hood  to  provide  the  foundation  and 
the   knowledge    of    the    right    this  framework  of  the  plan  of  life  that 
Priesthood  gives  him  to  administer  builds  character  into   the  lives    of 
to  the  sick,  conduct  a  sacrament  ser-  boys  and  men. 
vice  for  his  family  (if  he  lives  apart  These  are  the  basic  principles  up- 
from  an  organized  ward  or  branch  on  which  the  Lord,  who  is  "no  re- 
of  the  Church),  and  to  teach  his  specter  of  persons"   (Acts   10:34), 
children  the  way  of  life  with  con-  has  builded  his  great  Church  in  our 
viction  as  to  his  authoritative  right  day,  until  now,  we  no  longer  talk  in 
to  teach.    In  fact,  such  powers  of  terms  of  personalities  and  the  per- 
the  Priesthood  as  are  given   to  all  sonal  drama  of  stirring  events  such 
worthy    members    of    the    Lord's  as  were  known  in  the  tender  years 
Church  are  so  inclusive  as  to  be  the  of  the  little  flock  ''who  heard  and 
way  of  all  life  and  good  living  both  believed  the  Prophet  Joseph";  rath- 
for  here  and  hereafter.  er  have  we  come  to  measure  our 
Once    the    full    significance    of  strength  in  areas  scattered  over  the 
the    great    plan    of    brotherhood,  face  of  the  earth  where  our  stakes, 
brought   about   through    the   func-  and  our  Priesthood  quorums  by  the 
tion    of    the    Priesthood,    became  thousands,  now  exist.  Yet  beneath 
clear  to  the  members  of  the  Church,  all  these  figures  there  still  rests  the 
the  steady  and  enduring  growth  of  simplicity  of  the  gospel  principle  of 
God's  kingdom  upon  earth  was  as-  brotherhood,  upon  which  all  great 
sured.  It  was  as  though  the  Lord  things  are  builded. 
had  scattered  abroad  the  good  seeds 
of  life  which  he  knew  would  root  Suggestions  for  Active  Reading 
and  grow  into  the  individual  testi-  and  Discussion 
monies  of  thousands  and  thousands  With  the  help  of  the  suggested  read 
of  saints  "^§  given  below,  have  the  class  carry  on 
rr-   J     '      .  1           1       .     .1               11  the  discussion  as  follows:   First  answer  the 
Today,     throughout    the    world,  question;  second,  read  the  assigned  part 
Priesthood  quorums  are  expanding.  of  the  text  to  discover  wherein  we  must 
The  pattern  of  these  organizations  "give  heed  unto  his  word." 
has  been  so  clearly  marked  and  test-  ^'  '^^  Lord  has  promised  great  things, 
ed  through  the  hundred  years    of  '',  ^'" '^  IT  """'.?  f  
Tp^vI^^^^^^^^ 
,       ^            .                      ^  who  would  obtain  the  two  rriesthoods  m 
growth    that    wherever    groups    of  his  Church.    What  has  he  said?   Read 
people  come  together  and  embrace  Doc.  and  Gov.  84:  32-41. 
THE  NEW  TESTAMENT 
Dorothy  ].   Roberts 
"And  Jesus  said  .  .  .  ."  Here  are  his  words 
Brought  safely  through  the  ages  down  to  me, 
And,  though  I  cannot  thank  the  ones  who  saved  them, 
I  read,  believing  they  were  meant  for  me.

554 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1946 
Visiting  cJeachers'   / 1  iessages— Our  Pioneer 
Heritage 
Lesson  2— Love  of  Fellow  Man 
Piesident  Amy  Brown  Lyman 
For  Tuesday,  November  5,  1946 
Objective:    To  show  that  the  pioneers  possessed  the  quahties  of  character  necessary 
to  hve  the  "second  great  commandment,"  love  of  neighbor. 
And  behold,  a  certain  lav^yer  stood  up 
and  tempted  him,  saying.  Master,  what 
shall  I  do  to  inherit  eternal  life?  He  said 
unto  him,  What  is  written  in  the  law? 
How  readest  thou?  And  he  answering 
sajd.  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God 
with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul, 
and  with  all  thy  strength,  and  with  all 
thy  mind;  and  thy  neighbor  as  thyself. 
And  he  said  unto  him,  Thou  hast  answer- 
ed right:  this  do,  and  thou  shalt  live.  But 
he,  wilUng  to  justify  himself,  said  unto 
Jesus,  and  who  is  my  neighbor?  (Luke 
10:25-29). 
JESUS  made  answer  by  giving  the 
^  parable  of  the  good  Samaritan, 
thus  indicating  that  all  men  are 
neighbors  to  each  other  and  should 
render  unselfish  and  helpful  service 
to  their  fellow  men.  After  thus  de- 
scribing the  unselfish  service  of  the 
good  Samaritan,  he  then  said  to  the 
lawyer,  ''Go,  and  do  thou  likewise." 
It  takes  real  strength  of  character 
as  well  as  unselfishness  to  be  neigh- 
borly and  charitable  in  the  broad 
sense  which  Jesus  thus  taught  and 
thus  emphasized.  This  doctrine  is 
so  strong  and  includes  so  much  self- 
giving  and  self-sacrifice  that  living 
it  strictly  is  a  real  test  of  strength. 
Church  history,  as  well  as  the 
pioneer  stories  which  have  come 
down  to  us,  testify  to  the  neighbor- 
liness,  co-operation,  and  true  charity 
practiced  by  the  Mormon  pioneers. 
Because  of  their  common  experi- 
ences, their  common  needs,  and 
their  common  problems,  they  could 
well  understand  the  inward  feelings 
and  desires,  the  hardships,  suffer- 
ings, and  heartaches  of  one  another. 
They  therefore  sacrificed  and  shar- 
ed together,  they  comforted  one  an- 
other, and  thus  helped  to  carry  one 
another's  burdens. 
In  their  preparation  for  the  great 
western  march— and  especially  dur- 
ing the  journey— the  pioneers  trad- 
ed and  loaned  tiieir  scant  belongings, 
they  divided  and  shared  whatever 
they  had  in  the  way  of  food,  cloth- 
ing, bedding,  and  other  supplies. 
One  of  the  rules  they  adopted  was, 
"Every  man  is  to  put  as  much  in- 
terest in  taking  care  of  his  brother's 
cattle  as  he  would  his  own.  And  no 
man  will  be  indulged  in  idleness." 
In  those  companies  where  space 
in  the  wagons  for  passengers  was 
limited,  and  when  there  was  hard 
pulling  for  the  animals,  in  whatever 
wagons  there  was  space,  preference 
was  given  to  little  children,  the  aged, 
and  those  who  were  ill. 
After  they  reached  the  Valley, 
their  co-operative  efforts  continued, 
and  the  stupendous  work  they  ac- 
complished in  the  first  years  was  the 
result   of   their   unselfishness;   and

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
555 
the  fraternal  spirit  that  united  and 
held  them  closely  together,  added 
to  the  spiritual  guidance  with  which 
they  were  blessed.  After  the  new- 
comers arrived,  arrangements  were 
soon  made  for  their  temporary  em- 
ployment. Public  works  were  es- 
tablished on  the  temple  block,  in- 
cluding shops  for  carpenters,  black- 
smiths, machinists,  and  others.  In 
this  way  many  received  their  first 
start  in  life  in  Utah.  Thus,  through 
their  co-operation  and  neighborli- 
ness,  they  grew  in  understanding, 
unselfishness,  benevolence,  and 
brotherly  love. 
Vi/orn    it  Lee  ting  —Sewing 
(A  Cgurse  for  Optional  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  2--The  Use  of  Tools  and  Treatment  of  Materials 
Work  Meeting  Committee,  Velma  N.  Simonsen,  Chairman 
For  Tuesday  November  12,  1946 
Textbook  Reference:     The  Com- 
plete Book  of  Sewing,  Chapter  III 
Treatment  of  Fabrics 
"^EARLY  all  types  of  material 
need  some  preparation  before 
cutting  out  a  garment.  This  includes 
woolens,  cottons,  linens,  silk,  and 
rayons.  Reputable  companies  usually 
label  their  materials  so  that  the  pur- 
chaser may  be  sure  of  the  kind  of 
treatment,  if  any,  that  may  be  re- 
quired. Unless  otherwise  specified, 
all  cottons  should  be  shrunk  before 
cutting. 
If  the  cloth  is  colorfast,  shrink  it 
in  hot  water  in  order  that  the  fibers 
of  the  material  may  be  thoroughly 
penetrated.  For  a  complete  soak- 
ing, it  is  advisable  to  leave  the  ma- 
terial in  the  water  all  night,  if  pos- 
sible. If  you  wish  to  retain  the  new 
look  of  the  fabric,  do  not  unfold  it 
during  the  shrinking  process,  and 
press  it  while  it  is  still  damp. 
Stretch  the  selvage  before  pressing 
the  center  of  the  material,  and  iron  it 
lengthwise. 
Woolens,  unless  they  are  to  be 
tubbed,  can  be  successfully  treated 
by  pressing  with  a  steam  iron,  or 
they  may  be  shrunk  according  to 
the  instructions  given  on  page  30  of 
The  Complete  Book  oi  Sewing. 
Always  clip  the  selvage  and  press  the 
cloth  lengthwise. 
Silks  and  rayons,  if  they  are  to  be 
dry-cleaned,  need  not  be  shrunk, 
but,  if  they  are  to  be  tubbed,  they 
should  be  shrunk.  The  same  method 
used  for  cottons  can  be  applied  for 
silks  and  rayons,  except  that  cooler 
water  should  be  used.  A  small 
amount  of  vinegar  or  water  softener 
may  be  added  to  the  water. 
Use  of  Tools 
Before  you  start  any  sevdng,  be 
sure  that  everything  you  will  need