MAY 1961 VOLTM 48 NO. 5 BL > io) > N mI Z ed & ' ig y eS i ' 5 Bich PR ALLO — _ 7 i ne ae ne a a a ' eos LBP IES 6 vb FS: ee thrice. Year of the Butterfly Rosemond Purviance The Chinese have a way, it seems to me, Of marking time that offers pure delight. This is the year of the dog, they say, Or the dragon or the swine. This has been the year for us of the butterfly. From the dry cocoon on the early day The black caterpillar spun And hung from the top of the prismed jar Where children's hands had thrust A twisting, fuzzy body In a bed of twigs and grass. Gently! Gently! Caterpillars squirm and childish fingers Are unskilled in tenderness. Thus comes the need for dying And to know makes quick tears When the knowing of the need Exceeds the small circumference of a world Surrounded by an unpierced infant wall. The question rises and the answer falls And comfort swells and fills the in-between To give to dying meaning That to die is but to live. But tears dry quickly when the heart is young, And summer days hold magic for the eyes. The frosty brown container splits and curls And now the jar grows smaller — much too small To quite contain the beauty that comes forth And jet and gold, and tipped with silver-white. The lid is lifted, And Pandora's eyes were never bright To witness such as this. It rises, flutters free And settles down, Pulsating softly, On a yellow head. The year of the butterfly is gone. I wait, Anticipating with an anxious joy Another time of learning Children's years. The Cover: Lake Louise, Alberta, Canada Photograph by Duncan Edwards, Free Lance Photographers Guild Frontispiece: Delaware Canal, Pennsylvania Photograph by Don Knight Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Srom Vlear and Sar I love The Relief Society Magazine. The lessons are helpful and so are the wonderful, inspiring stories and poems. Every word helps to strengthen my testimony, and my heart is full of thankfulness for the Magazine. No one reading this wonderful Magazine could deny the truth and words of wisdom it contains. I pray that, as one of the Magazine representatives, I may be the means of others obtaining and enjoying our Relief Society Magazine. —Sarah Potts Ripley, Derbyshire, England I was Relief Society president for two years here in Cookeville. I now teach the social science class, and enjoy all the lessons which are given in the Magazine. The stories and poems are just wonderful, and the covers so lifelike. My children and I were discussing the March cover and remembering our trip to Canyon Lake (near Phoenix, Arizona) in 1955, when we were living in Phoenix. It is wonderful to see it on the Magazine in color. —Mrs. Elsie Lee Hickey Cookeville, 'Tennessee I think The Relief Society Magazine is simply splendid. I have taken it since 1926. I sent a copy to a cousin of mine in England (nonmember) and she wrote thanking me for the nice little book. —Helen McQuarrie Salt Lake City, Utah I would like to tell you how much I appreciate our wonderful Magazine. It helps me spiritually and materially in my home. I just can't be without it. For me The Relief Society Magazine is a treasure of knowledge. —Mrs. Clemencia P. Golithon Redondo Beach, California I enjoy our Magazine very well. I have twenty-five bound volumes and _ treasure them. I also enjoy the Birthday Congratulations to our dear sisters. —Annie E. Nielsen Spanish Fork, Utah Page 282 I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much. Two of the recent stories have been particularly moving: "Grafted" (First Prize Story, by Hope M. Williams, in the January issue); and "The Happety Road" (Second Prize Story, by Hazel K. Todd, in the February issue). I am glad the articles on Temple Square (by Preston Nibley, October and November 1960, and January, February, and March 1961) have been included in the Magazine. My children enjoy these bits of history as much as I. —Mrs. Merrill Holyoak American Falls, Idaho I can't begin to tell you how much I appreciate our wonderful Magazine, and what it means to me. Inside the beautiful covers lie a college education, the wonderful lessons, stories, recipes, and poems. The contents of the Magazine are always outstanding. I have enjoyed twelve years on the stake board, in two different stakes, as Magazine representative and have loved every minute of it. I have also served as a ward president in the same two stakes. Truly, I have learned the value of the Magazine. —Mrs. Alligee L. Anderson Nephi, Utah The Relief Society Magazine is an inspiration to all of us here in Waco, Texas. We especially enjoy the ideas for work meeting. Our homebound members surely enjoy the Magazine. We hope you will never discontinue the handwork features in our favorite Magazine. —RMrs. Florence Hoppie Waco, Texas Just a note of thanks for the beautiful editorial "And Tell of Time" in the January Magazine (by Vesta P. Crawford). Truly, I feel that it was penned particularly for me. I have always loved that passage from Ecclesiastes around which the message was built. —FEvelyn Anderson Lee Linthicum Heights, Maryland

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Christine H. Robinson Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz Edith §. Elliott Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Elizabeth B. Winters Florence J. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron LaRue H. Rosell Leone G. Layton Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt Jennie R. Scott Blanche B. Stoddard Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Alice L. Wilkinson Evon W. Peterson Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen LaPriel S. Bunker Aleine M. Young Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Irene W. Buehner Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford 
VOL. 48 MAY 1961 NO. 5 
Contents 
SPECIAL FEATURES International Singing Mothers Concert Tour. Belle S. Spafford 284 Contest Announcements — 1961] ooo. Ee eee ccseneeccceeesecceeneeesseeencceeeeees. 293 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest - 0..2 c--csscecseseeeeeoee 293 Relief Society Short Story Contest 2 ecccceeececceeeeeeceeeeeceeeeeeees _. 294 Magazine Honor Roll for 1960.. A Marianne C. Sharp 320 FICTION ''Men Are What Their Mothers Make Them" Mabel Law Atkinson 296 Lovingly Remembered. - aFrances C. Yost 299 Love Is Enough — Chapter 5 ooweec. Ceccecssenccecseseenececencesecceecesseseesceneeee Mabel Harmer 312 GENERAL FEATURES Pre Neer ceric Petr onan. Ecccnnncnecnscssccvesceccnaccaccoccaccsccsenseacenneacvsasunessacuccevaseaessounnnneccenerecee 282 Sixty Years Ago ows Peer ere err ere,.. SUMINT ==..,.__ Sonreeereeer TET IE nea ME = non ca 302 Woman's Sphere a veonneennenerrerece=:7Ramona W. Cannon 303 Editorial: Train Up a Child As an Individual 20.02. Eeceeeee cee ceeeneeececeneeeneeesMarianne C. Sharp 304 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities - a Hulda Parker 330 Birthday Congratulations ooo ecceee ceceeeececseesseeseeceseseeceesecneeesneeessseeseeseeeese 6 344 TRE Evening Star.20.. Un eccccecccscccsccecucecncnnseccsccccesccenenesccsesuerececcesecceenaresnsecareusencereaese Cleo Jones Johnson 298 Spring Housecleaning on ee eee Hattie B. Maughan 306 Buffet to Remember 202.0 cece ceeececceebececcsenececceesecececeecescsesecseessncceeceececeeeeensnsetsneeenecesAlice Morrey Bailey 308 Animal] Aprons 20 eceeceeceenesseseneceessesecesensceneeeseseecececeee " a Shirley Thulin 310 Martha Wilcox Hacking, Mistress of Many Hobbies 2.---.: seseeees-+ — 319 MTS RECIPE. Ccnssxnsveccssosssssssecsace-asnncereceeennnessanaeencenoenssenneenenegesensennsennacenassnaensessssuseaceneseaeees Marion Ellison 319 Beauty rs, UMD, Ia, A can nn on snc ance enone e-s vee eeanacee eeeArlene D. Cloward 337 The Hard Way 2 eseecccceesececeecceecccnseescceeeeeeeeees nepeeerrerereerr er ooCelia Luce 338 To Be a Grandmother ee oarHarriet De Spain 339 POETRY The Year of the Butterfly — Frontispiece 20 leeececeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeee Rosemond Purviance 281 Sunflowers on c@ Hilk ec cecelee eee ceceeenecencnececereceeeeeee. Eva Willes Wangsgaard 292 Set Your Kindred Free _... EeClara Lewis Jennings 295 EUUUOMMIDS asissieseneoee-n-onnnsecancanne-sennsenacannenneeeeecaccecnenevneseorsecsecensveneenetensecenaceneeneasnascusentercerseensesChristie Lund Coles 305 Inside the Locket ooo cccececcccecececcceeeeeeeceeeareeeececsseesasseseuseusasssessaceossseseseuseesssseessceesensLorena A. White 307 Earth House in May.. W.. N..-scessecssssnesceccneeeecocecsneccnneneeseeees ts Caroline Eyring Miner 318 Woman's Choice o. Oo essessscescecesencecesseceneccsnececeseccaneceenecccessceneccececseseceusecenesasensacsusaseataesacecsccensarenceLula Walker 337 PPE os cezencosuneenanansossneenennennsnacnatanensensunrenseneuntencensatensonsententenssssutrasensentenestsatevenvecteveneseeneneseennensTexas A. Gladden 338 SMUT SEAS oo oe eneaneennennnsconsencanssenacassnsesansacenaca-enecvoncessacene-sanaaeracsaaresernernecsucecensacsaanacenaneneccencesenerseeEthel Jacobson 340 Hearts 22.0 eens BIC nora sncascnnsnn near cinceatenr-oesenronershoneraneuns aRowena Jensen Bills 340 Except for the Dolisies.0 cssecsecssseceececeaceecececeeteccuccoceceuseusaseessesenteeseseeesneesareesoeseMabel Jones Gabbott 342 eeGrace Barker Wilson 342 

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1961 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Page 283 So Beautiful, Beloved oooce. Cecccccceccscceccccecescnecesesseeseesccetceseceseeneseseeee International Singing Mothers Concert Tour President Belle S. Spafford 66 ET Not Your Song End With Its Singing" was the concluding number of each one of a series of concerts presented in seven large centers of the United Kingdom by a Relief Society International Singing Mothers Chorus composed of 250 singers represent-. Ing five countries — United States, England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales. As this glorious song rang out through the great concert halls of Great Britain, one felt the prophetic nature of its message. The superbly beautiful music of these sweetspirited mothers will not end in the concert halls, but will go on in the homes, in branches and missions, in wards and stakes of two continents, to sustain and bless our Father's children and to further his work. In a revelation given in July 1830 to the Prophet Joseph Smith and directed to his wife, Emma, who twelve years later became the first President of Relief Society, the Lord said: "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the nghteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads" (D & C 25:12). Throughout its 119 years of history, during which time Relief Society has spread to the far corners of the earth, Relief Society mothers have been singing mothers. They have sung with heart and voice. Yet, in all the long history of the Society, Page 284 it was not until now that Relief Society members residing in more than one country had been brought together in one choral group. The recent concert tour of Great Britain, history making in its conception and accomplishments and promising for the future of the Singing Mothers program of Relief Society and for Relief Society itself, bears testimony of the blessings of the Lord to his daughters, of the power of music, and of the importance of the Relief Society in the advancement of the work of the Church. The first International Chorus of Singing Mothers, formed at the direction of the First Presidency, was blessed in having as its conductor Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, member of the General Board of Relief Society and eminent American conductor. Dr. Madsen has had a long and distinguished career in the field of music as soloist, composer, teacher, and conductor. It was not a new experience for her to bring together into one large choral group singers selected from many local Relief Society choruses. For a number of years she has conducted such choruses at the Annual General Relief Society Conference and at sessions of the General Church Conferences. The thousands of Latter-day Saints attending these conferences have been inspired and edified by the deeply moving music of these choruses. Outstanding as have been her past INTERNATIONAL SINGING MOTHERS CONCERT TOUR 285 Courtesy Fox Photos, Ltd. THE SINGING MOTHERS IN CONCERT AT ROYAL ALBERT HALL performances, Dr. Madsen's great talents seemed to have reached a perfection peak in the training and conducting of the International Chorus. Sensitive to the effects desired by the composers, she developed, in a comparatively few rehearsals, the ability on the part of the singers to perform beautifully and artistically. 'The charm of her personality, her ready wit, the sincerity and apparent ease with which she achieved emotional and spiritual depth in her conducting, will mark her ever as a superb interpreter of song and as one of the great choral conductors of the Church. In all of Florence Madsen's activities in working with the American and British singers, she had the full support and assistance of her husband, Dr. Franklin Madsen, himself an accomplished musician and conductor. The International Singing Mothers Chorus was fortunate, also, in having Dr. Frank W. Asper, one of America's most distinguished organists, for the organ accompaniments and for the concert organ solos. Dr. Asper has been playing the Salt Lake Tabernacle organ for more than thirty years. 'The dedicatory service for the organ in the new Hyde Park Chapel featured Dr. Asper. The Singing Mothers participated in that service. T was not an easy undertaking to bring together for several weeks of rehearsal fifty-seven women from stakes in Utah extending from Provo through Ogden; also to assemble for sectional rehearsals two hundred Courtesy J. Walter Thompson, Ltd. PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY British women; then to transport the 250 American and British sisters to London and from this center to Manchester, to Nottingham, to Cardiff, to Newcastle, to Glasgow, and to Belfast for concerts, and then on back to Liverpool and from thence to their respective homes. The organizational genius of the undertaking was reflected in the smoothness with which the tour moved from place to place. Planned under the competent direction of President Bowring Woodbury of the British Mission and his wife, Sister Beulah Woodbury, with the full support and co-operation of other mission presidents of Great Britain, the Manchester Stake presidency, the missionaries, local Priesthood and Relief Society leaders, as well as the General Presidency of Relief Society, the tour was conducted with the efficiency and precision of a well-oiled machine. Travel arrangements for the American sisters to and from England were made by President Franklin Murdock, who, together with Sister Clare Murdock, accompanied INTERNATIONAL SINGING MOTHERS CONCERT TOUR 287 Cupra Fox Photos, Ltd. SISTER EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY Photograph taken in England February 1961 the singers throughout the entire tour. The tour manager was Elder Maurice Barnes of the British Mission. Elder Barnes was assisted by Sister Myrtle Wentworth and Sister Coleen Hamilton, of the British Mission, while Sister Evon W. Peterson represented the General Board. All of these brothers and sisters remained with the singers throughout the entire tour, as did President Spafford. President Bowring Woodbury and Sister Beulah Woodbury also traveled with the chorus a portion of the time. Every requirement of responsible assignments was met pleasantly and capably by those assigned to direct and assist with the tour, making the extensive traveling a happy and comfortable experience for the singers. The music repertoire consisted of twenty-three sacred and _ secular numbers, with both British and American composers represented. Some of Dr. Madsen's own compositions were included. Each number was recognized as being among the finest in choral music. 'Though difficult to learn, the sisters memorized the songs and presented them with artistry under the masterful conducting of Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen. The organist, Dr. Frank Asper, the pianist, Zesta T. Geisler, the soloists, Annette Richardson Dinwoodey, Jean Taverner, and Jewell E. Cutler, the violinists, Reva Blair and Blanche Wilson, all lent great talents to impressive and soul-stirring concerts. As the chorus moved from city to city on its memorable tour, receptive and appreciative audiences greeted the singers. Enthusiastic applause and high praise for the DR. FLORENCE JEPPERSON MADSEN of the General Board of Relief Society Director of the International Singing Mothers Chorus 288 Courtesy Fox Photos, Ltd. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 wrt PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD SPEAKS AT DEDICATORY SERVICE Seated in the front row, left to right: Sister Brown, Sister McKay, President David QO. McKay, Elder Hugh B. Brown, President Alvin O. Dyer. Quality of the singing and the uniqueness of the undertaking were forthcoming on every hand. Warm welcomes were extended by Lord Mayors in a number of the cities where concerts were given. Some of these distinguished civic leaders honored the Church by attending the concerts held in their respective cities. Other distinguished persons were also present at the various concerts. Everywhere the press was generous in reporting the event. 'The Newcastle press reported the concert as follows, under the heading 'THE SincGInG MoTHERS EXCEL: In the City Hall, Newcastle, last night the International Chorus of Singing Mothers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints gave a concert of sacred and secular music. This was one of a series of concerts which this body of singers is giving in seven centers in the United Kingdom. The whole concept is remarkable — 50 American singers who have come over specially for these events joined with 200 British singers, who have for some time been rehearsing sectionally, and they have formed a choir whose performance was an absolute object lesson in choral singing. Apart from the obvious fact that every member was thoroughly cognizant of the music — the whole exacting programme was sung without reference to copies — credit must be given to the expert training and inspiring conducting of Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen.... The programme consisted of a varied selection of three and four-part choral items, solos by Jewel Cutler (soprano), and Annette Richardson Dinwoodey (contralto), a violin solo by Blanche Wilson and two organ solos. Some of the accompantments were played on the organ by Dr. Frank W. Asper, who provided adequate support without ever being too loud, in spite of the temptation of the large organ, the power of which he rather devastatingly demonstrated in his solos. The rest were in the hands of the pianist, Zesta T. Geisler, whose playing was excellent. Her INTERNATIONAL SINGING MOTHERS CONCERT TOUR 289 accurate accompaniments were helpful to choir and soloists alike. Of the contribution of the choir to the programme one can only speak in the highest terms. Helped by the absence of copies, there was absolute unanimity in everything they did, with constant attention centered on their conductor, whose clear and meaningful leadership ensured splendid precision. They sang with artistic expression and never lost vitality, whether in vigorous and strenuous passages or in the quietest parts. But while praising highly their tone and the general interpretation of the music, it was that rare quality im singing, splendid enunciation, which struck me most. Such clarity, such care with adequate stresses, left the audience in no doubt about the words. Classical, English, and American composers were represented. Only to mention a few — Handel's ""Come Unto Him' was beautifully sung, as was Elgar's ""The Snow." We were given an unaccustomed staccato rendering of a Bach chorus, but it was effective. An Irish song, "I Have a Bonnet Trimmed With Blue" was very taking, and Landon Ronald's "A Southern Song" was given an interpretation which warranted the repetition demanded. Courtesy Fox Photos, Ltd. Dr. Madsen, the conductor, had one composition and two arrangements in the programme, all bearing the stamp of expert musicianship, and her "Come, Ye Blessed' was given a sincere and moving rendering. Remarkable achievement of Dr. Florence Madsen, and one which received considerable attention and commendation, was the perfect blending of the English, Scotch, Irish, Welsh, and Western American accents into an harmonious oneness. 'This, however, was not the only blending. The lives of the sisters were blended as one. From the hour when the Queen Mary docked at Southampton bearing the American group until farewells were spoken at Liverpool, a spirit of love and _ sisterhood prevailed. The welcoming song, "Come, Come, Ye Saints," sung by sixty British singers, came ringing across the water as the ship docked and was promptly answered by "Now THE SINGING MOTHERS AT HYDE PARK CHAPEL 290 Courtesy J. Walter T AOE 'Ltd. ARCHITECT'S DRAWING OF THE HYDE PARK CHAPEL Exhibition Road, Kensington, London Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation, No Longer As Strangers on Earth Need We Roam." This glorious and heartfelt singing formed a favorable beginning for loving friendships. The most impressive and memorable of the many long-to-be-remembered occasions in which the chorus took part, was, without doubt, the dedication service of the Hyde Park Chapel in London, on Sunday, February 26, 1961, at ten A. M. The building features many new advancements in chapel design. The spacious and attractive chapel houses a concert organ of 2,545 pipes, forty-three stops, and three manuals of sixty-one keys each. A large recreational room with a stage adjoins the chapel and may be opened to accommodate overflow congregations attending meetings in the chapel. There is a large and beautifully decorated Relief Society room, a_ spacious kitchen' with modern kitchen equipment, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 twenty classrooms. The building also has a baptismal font. Of great convenience is a basement garage designed to hold forty cars. 'The outside of the building is equally as beautiful as the interior. A ninetyfoot tower capped by a gold leaf covered spire, rising an additional forty feet to place the spire top 130 feet above the street level, and with a narrow panel of colored glass running vertically up the tower face, is illuminated at night. It may be seen long distances, an eye-catching and inspiring sight on the London scene. With the entrance of Presideat and Sister McKay for the dedicatory service, accompanied by Elder and Sister Hugh B. Brown and Elder and Sister Nathan Eldon Tanner, the great gathering of saints and friends who had assembled early for the service, rose aS one and stood in silent and reverent respect until our distinguished Prophet and President and his beloved and honored wife were seated. 'The joy of the sisters in having Sister McKay present when the women of the Church were being honored by having Relief Society Singing Mothers provide music for this auspicious occasion, was apparent in their faces as Sister McKay entered the building. THE chorus sang with sweetness, clarity of tone, and a soul quality that were deeply moving, the following anthems: "The Morning Breaks, the Shadows Flee," by P. P. Pratt and George Careless. "Send Forth Thy Spirit," by Schuetky, arranged by Frederic F. Smith. "Peace I Leave With You," by Roberts. "Thy Blessing on This House, Dear Lord,"' words by Alberta H. Christensen and music by Florence Jepperson Madsen. INTERNATIONAL SINGING MOTHERS CONCERT TOUR 291 The impressive address of President David O. McKay, and the inspired dedicatory prayer pronounced by him, will live on in the hearts of the listeners. President McKay outlined the indispensable conditions to the attainment of peace. "Only by adherence to the fundamental principles of righteousness can peace come to individuals or nations," he said. He told the listeners that ""The mission of the Church is to establish peace — peace in individual hearts, peace and _harmony in the home, cessation of war and discord among nations." He said that peace cannot be found in external things, it always comes from within. The following words spoken by President McKay in behalf of Relief Society as he referred to the Relief Society room, made a deep impress upon the hearts of the Relief Society sisters there assembled: We dedicate the Relief Society rooms and kitchen and all that pertains thereto. Bless the Relief Society and the service they are rendering, the significance of which is now becoming mote clearly understood by the people of the world. Holy Father, guide the members and keep close to them, and may all the people realize what it means to have our mothers rendering service, not only to their loved ones and children at home, but through their ability as leaders of the women of the world. The organization of the London Stake at the Sunday afternoon session, during which the Singing Mothers again sang, was a second glorious occasion of this Sabbath day. The tour of the International Singing Mothers Chorus seemed appropriately concluded with a special temple session at the London Temple arranged by President and Sister Selvoy Boyer. A spirit of peace and well-being pervaded the soul of everyone and seemed as a benediction upon the momentous undertaking. There were mixed emotions the morning of March 8, when sisters of five different countries who had lived together and sung together for a fortnight said their adieus. 'The sorrows of parting were alleviated only by the joys of returning to home and loved ones, enriched by the experiences and strengthened by the blessings that had attended the sisters throughout the tour. These sisters of different nationalities, but with the same ideals, standards, beliefs, and eternal goals, had formed deep and abiding friendCunard Line Photograph PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD AND HER HUSBAND W. EARL SPAFFORD Aboard the "Queen Mary" on their way to England for the Singing Mothers Tour 292 ships. In the heart of each was sincere gratitude to the Lord for the opportunity that had come to her to be a part of this unique missionary endeavor. In the heart of each was a deepened appreciation for the gospel of Jesus Christ as restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and an increased determination to further the work of the Church. There was a firm resolve in the heart of each sister to rear her children in the love of the truth. There was an awakened desire to further develop her talents and to use them in building strong and ever-growing Relief Societies. There was a greater understanding of the true meaning of sisterhood. To attempt at this time to measure the values that will accrue from this international Singing Mothers RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 activity, entered into by invitation of the First Presidency, would be fruitless. Many values already shine out with crystal clearness. Others remain yet to be identified. The full measure of the value of the undertaking must be determined by time and eternity. That the Lord looked with favor upon the undertaking is attested by the abundance of the blessings which he showered upon the sisters as they traveled from place to place on their mission of love and song. The General Presidency expresses deep felt appreciation to the First Presidency for the glorious opportunity afforded Relief Society Singing Mothers, and prays that Relief Society sisters may ever be found worthy of the trusts placed in them by the Church. Sunflowers ona dill Eva Willes Wangsgaard May upon the hillside Wakes ten thousand suns Looking up the airways Where true sunlight runs. Not a cool wing shadow, Not a tree limb's shade Interrupts this glowing Light and petal made. Where but gleaming sunlight Fills the dazzled eye Gold has need of purple. Low the shadows lie. Underneath each flower, Dark behind each leaf, Sun-shape, leaf-shape, stencil Time's pre-written brief. Contest Announcements—1961 CONTESTS CLOSE AUGUST 15, 1961 Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest Tc Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1961. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize ------------$40 Second prize ------$30 atime! DriZe%. 2s $20 Prize poems will be published in the January 1962 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birthmonth of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. 'The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5- No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifving: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. C. That it has never been published. D. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. Page 293 294 e. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. G. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Message or theme b. Form and pattern c. Rhythm and meter d. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not Jater than August 15, 1961. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Reliof Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1961 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1961. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize -..-.----------+-$75 Second prize --+---$60 Third prize -.-.---------$50 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1962. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. 'The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of the words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication. ) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. RELIEF SOCIETY SHORT STORY CONTEST d. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a rec- 295 ognized writer. In case of complete disagreements among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1961. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Os Set Your Kindred Free Clara Lewis Jennings Must I, behind locked doors, forever wait, While you, who are on earth, procrastinate Work which would set me free? Must I cry out, unheard, forevermore, And wait, in vain, behind this bleak, barred door Because you would not see? Must I, who once held loved ones tenderly, Stretch out my arms through all eternity While others move ahead? Must I not know the joy of being sealed, By this great power God has now revealed, Because you failed your dead? When I dwelt on the earth as mortal man, The Lord had not revealed his gospel plan, Which [ accept as true! I would have done my own work had I known, And would not now be waiting here alone, Depending so on you! Please hear my voice before it is too late, For you, and yours, will one day share my fate, If you heed not my plea, For God has spoken in this latter day, Commanding you to open up the way, To set your kindred free. For in your day, the Lord has plainly said That no man can be saved without his dead, And so, I call once more; As I must look to my posterity, So must they also have the need of me. "Men Are What Sheir Mothers Make Shem" Mabel Law Atkinson T was Saturday morning. Mrs. Ormon sat on her porch in the warmth of the May sunshine watching her husband plant their vegetable garden. Suddenly a great longing to see the boy who had helped him the year before came over her. But she knew that could not be, for he was finishing his first year at a college some distance away and would not be home till the first week in June. Even Mother's Day could not stretch their budget for an extra trip home. She was roused from her thoughts by the mailman whistling the strains of "Mother McCree." "That is worth paying for, your whistling, I mean," she called to him as he was putting her mail in their box by the side of the road. "For that compliment, I'll bring your letter and give it to you myself. Sure and its from that big handsome son of yours away at college. It's mighty proud of him you should be." "Thank you, Mr. McDougal, I am proud, but a little lonely, too, this morning." "The letter will cheer you up. Pll be going along so you can read cll With a smile Mrs. Ormon opened her letter and began reading: Dear Mother: Wish I could be talking to you instead of writing, but that cannot be, but someday, Mother, ll be so successful — I hope — that I can come home every Mothers Day. But this time this letter and the small remembrance I am sending must suffice. Page 296 Now, Mother, don't say, "You Shouldn't have" about the gift. I couldn't think of getting a corsage for Barbara to wear last night and not remember my favorite girl on her special day. "And who is Barbara?" I hear you ask. You would like her, Mother. She invited me to go with her to a party given by one of her sorority friends. She's beautiful, easy to talk with, and a good dancer. It was a formal affair, and Barbara looked like a million in her dress, but it was modest, Mother, which is more than I can say for some of the creations the girls wore. You should have seen me in a Tuxedo, the first I've worn. No, dear little Mother, I didn't have to rent one so I'm not low on cash as a result. My roommate had one and he was generous enough to let me wear it. It fit perfectly. Strange how the wearing of a tuxedo made me feel important and dignified and sophisticated. If I do say so, Barbara and I made a handsome couple. I enjoyed the dancing, every moment of it, but when we were seated for a midnight banquet and pretty little waitresses began filling the small crystal goblets with wine or champagne — I'm not familiar with such drinks, as you know, so can't say for sure — I knew a few moments of panic. It was as if hot fingers were clutching at my throat. I knew what I should do, Mother, for the Word of Wisdom has always been lived in our home. But could I be different and face the conse- "MEN ARE WHAT THEIR MOTHERS MAKE THEM" quences. Would it really matter to do as the rest just this once and be recognized as one of the crowd and belonging? I looked at Barbara and read a challenge in her eyes. The smiling waitress was but a few plates away. Indecision seemed choking me. GUDDENLY I was a boy again: It was the morning of my twelfth birthday, a bright, sunny morning, the day I arrived at the important age when I could be ordained a deacon and begin scouting. The scout oath passed through my mind and I remembered you had given me the scout handbook to study a few months before so I would be all ready to be a real scout when I was twelve. Again I saw my birthday cake with its roses and candles and "Happy Birthday, Richard!'"" Once more my eyes rested on your gift, a book, A Young Folks History of The Church, in which you had written, "You will receive the Priesthood today. Magnify it.' Again I was holding a sealed letter I found in the book. On the outside of the envelope you had written, "To be opened on your twenty-first birthday, and telling the kind of man I think you will be then." It was as though a clean canyon breeze blew across my soul. My mind cleared. I turned to the little waitress about to fill my_ glass, smiled, and said, "No, thank you." Then I turned to meet the scoffing rebuke I expected to see in Barbara's eyes. Instead, I saw them light with the gladness of relief, and smiling, she, too, said to the waittess, "No, thank you." To my astonishment, several others at the 297 table refused, and some of the filled goblets were never raised to the lips of those who had lacked the courage to say no. When I said goodnight to Barbara at her door, her eyes were shining as she said, "Thanks, Richard. I'm so grateful to you and proud of you. I have never tasted liquor of any kind, and now I am sure I shall be able to keep my record clean. I had decided to do whatever you did." Thanks, Mother, for all you have taught me, and thank Dad for me. Had it not been for your teachings in many different ways, I would not have been able to say no. And, Mother, I still have two more years before I can open your letter. I shall try to live so I can read it unashamed and with no regrets. Good night, Mother, and all my love. Your son, Richard TEARS were running gently down Mrs. Ormon's face as she finished the letter. Thankfulness welled up in her heart. She knew the sweetness of humility as she breathed a prayer of gratitude. "Why the tears, my dear?" It was her husband who spoke. "Not tears of sorrow, I am sure, for there is a radiance in your eyes. You are beautiful, Mother, 'smiling through!' Here, let me dry your eyes." He did so, then kissed her tenderly. "Now tell me all about Ca For answer she handed him her letter. When he finished reading and turned to her there were tears in his eyes, also, and he said softly, "Emerson was right: 'Men are what their mothers make them.' " She looked in her husband's eyes 298 for along moment. There was tenderness in her voice and love and gratitude as she answered gently, "I believe you are right, my dear." She paused briefly then continued, "What a wonderful mother you must have had." The sacred moment was broken by the click of the gate. The boy RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 from the florist's handed her a long slender box, received her "Thank you" and went on his way. With eager, trembling fingers she removed the wrappings, opened the box, and saw one long-stemmed perfect white rose. On the card was written: "The white rose of purity. Love, Richard." She &vening Star Cleo Jones Johnson termed it a bad day. Nothing went right. A late start to begin with, trouble with the old washer, telephone interruptions one after another, a child's broken arm, help needed on his paper route, supper unprepared, and, in addition, the anxiety of a left-too-late assignment for the meeting that night! At the approach of evening as I stood shivering with aching cold while my fingers pried at the frozen garments on the clothesline, and my spirit was downtrodden by the pressures of the day, my glances caught the sparkle of the evening star. Its brightness all of a sudden hung there, although the sun was not quite hidden beyond the distant mountains. I stood transfixed by its beauty and the wonder of its purpose. A pale silver moon floated nearby. The strain and worry of the day, even the cold, were, for the moment, forgotten. My eyes followed the slope of sky to the western horizon where sheets of crimson and orange flamed, edged by soft gold, by blue and purple, announcing the departure of the great ruler light of the day. The colors brought beauty to the cold, bare branches of a tree that grew as if to frame for me a great painting. Then, as if the magic of this moment might seem incomplete, there appeared from. Out of nowhere a thin white line traveling slowly between the two — the glory of the sun and the sparkle of the night. It was the vapor trail of a manmade jet, another wonder of creation, leaving in its wake a series of puffs like a dot and dash message, as if to remind me that every day has its brightness; trials and troubles should bring out the best of what is in us; God is good; and life is the best of what we make it. I] thanked God for that evening star. Lovingly Remembered Frances C. Yost CO weit Vickers could hardly wait for Stan to come home from work. She knew it was childish of her, but it was Valentine's Day and she knew he would bring something special for her. Stan was one man in a dozen, oh, maybe one in a hundred, or even a million! Because Stan didn't forget important days, he had a way of making every day important. Only this morning Stan had slipped a package on her chair at the breakfast table. She had seen him doing it while she was serving the ham and eggs. It was a huge, heart-shaped box of chocolates. 'That alone would have been more than enough for a Valentine's present. But Stan always did things in a big way, in an appreciative way. It was this being remembered that counted. Yes, Carol knew that when Stan walked up the driveway, he would be carrying something. Something very special for her. The warmth of expectancy, mingled with love, filled her heart. Stan was a dream man, if there ever was one. Sherrie, aged five, rushed into the room and said, "Mommie, let's look out the window together and watch for Daddy." Carol took Sherrie by the hand, and together they walked to the window and sat down on the window seat. She loved this dear little girl as if she were her own flesh and blood. Sherrie's mother, Stan's first wife, Marie, had died when Sherrie was born. Stan had done an excellent job of rearing Sherrie those first three years. He had hired a housekeeper for the first year or two, then he had put Sherrie in a day nursery. She was a dear, loving, unspoiled child. Stan could be proud of her and Carol was proud of her. As much as if she were her very own. Well, she was her own, for Sherrie had called her "Mommie" since the day she had come to this house, as Stan Vickers' wife, two years ago. "T love you, Mommie." Sherrie looked up at Carol with affection. "T love you, too, darling." Carol curled a tendril of her blonde hair around her finger into a ringlet. "Tell me again, Mommie, how you and Daddy met." "Honey, you've heard it a dozen times." "But it's my favorite story. Please tell it again." "Well, I was a new girl in town, and my girl friend with whom I shared an apartment while | was working as a secretary, asked me to go to a special interest party with her. I went, and who do you think was at the party?" Carol smiled her loveliest at little Sherrie and winked a little as she waited for her answer. "My Daddy." "You are so right." "And then what happened?" Sherrie giggled. "Well, it's a long story. There were introductions, and dances, and punch and cookies and getting acquainted talk. Then followed church on Sundays, and dates to the movies and the concerts and more dances. Then one day a picnic with Page 299 300 you. And at the picnic your Daddy said: 'Carol, will you marry me, and be little Sherrie's Mommie. We both love you.' And so I did, and here Iam.'"' Carol laughed. "You are a good Mommie." Sherrie hugged her with both little arms. 'Then, as if remembering they were sitting at the window, Sherrie looked out and shouted: "Here's Daddy!" She ran to swing the door open for him. AROL followed her to the door to greet Stan. This welcoming home was a lovely part of each day for all three of them. After kissing tiny Sherrie and Carol, Stan handed her a green package from the florist. "'A little Valentine gift, special for my darling wife." "Stan, the box of chocolates was enough, really it was." "Not nearly enough." Carol turned back the oiled papers, and there they lay a dozen lovely red roses. "Oh, Stan, they're lovely, just perfectly lovely." Carol held them close to her heart, and inhaled their fragrance. "Roses are my favorite flower." Together, they placed the roses in a tall vase and put it on a table in the living room to enjoy, then sat down to visit. "Daddy, you were a little late coming home. Mommie and I waited and waited. Where were you so long?" Sherrie asked, climbing on his knees. "Sherrie, dear, Daddy stopped by to put a dozen roses on Mother's gtave." Carol felt something freeze inside her. Abruptly the sunshine of the day disappeared. She leaned back RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 against the sofa pillows. She must control herself. Of course it was good that Sherrie knew about her real mother. She and Sherrie talked about it freely between themselves, but now she was dead, did she have to come in on flowers equal with Carol's on every important occasion? Well, she had so far, that was for sure. Would she forever? Carol analyzed her feelings. It was as if she were sparring with a ghost, for Stan's love. The love he had for Marie should be dead. Dead as she was dead. Carol fought for control of her emotions. Stan held Sherrie, and together they laughed gayly. "Tl go put the supper on the table," Carol said. As she busied herself in the kitchen, Carol congratulated herself on being a good actor. Neither Stan nor little Sherrie had even noticed that her heart was breaking. She whispered a tiny inward prayer: "Dear Father, I have a perfect husband. Help me to be big enough to live with his memories." HERRIE tore off the February, March, and April calendars. Then suddenly it was May. Lady Spring was reigning in all her glory. Warm golden sunlight poured over their valley like butter and honey. But the Vickers house on Walnut Street was rather quiet. Stan Vickers was out of town on business, and wouldn't be back until the latter part of the month. It had been their plan that Carol and Sherrie accompany him on the trip, but the day before they were to leave Sherrie became ill. Stan suggested they get Mrs. Kelly, who had tended Sherrie while a baby, but LOVINGLY REMEMBERED Carol said it was her place to be with her, and she wouldn't feel night leaving her behind. Stan sighed with relief. "Well, I must admit Ill feel a lot better knowing you are with Sherrie." He kissed her goodby and took his leave. With patient care, Sherrie soon was well again, and her dear, sweet self. Then it was Sunday morning May fourteen, and the doorbell rang. Carol hurried to answer it. "Oh," she exclaimed, as a special delivery boy handed her a big box. "Tt was just flown in on the plane, Mam. It looks as if it could be flowers." "Oh." Carol said it the way you do when something has been perfect and wonderful. "Thank you, thank you very much." Carol closed the door. "What is it, Mommie?" Sherrie was bubbling with excitement. "It's a dear little arrangement of pink roses, and a card which reads: "The mother who is reading this loving note today is just about the sweetest and best in every way. She's very dear and thoughtful, so understanding, too, and to her happy family she's a blessing all year through.' " "Why, Mommie, you're crying. Daddy wouldn't want you to cry. He sends flowers to make you happy, not to make you cry." "It's just that I miss our Daddy, Sherrie. Hurry, darling, and put your Sunday dress on. We have an errand to do before Sunday School." HERRIE marked the days off on the May calendar. Then suddenly the day she had waited for arrived. Daddy was coming home! She and 301 Carol dressed sort of special and Carol backed the car out of the garage, and together they drove to the station. Seeing a train pull in at the station had always been a thrill to Carol. She remembered when she was a little girl, and the big black coalfueled engines puffed and puffed. She had felt especially sad one day because the nice engineer invited her to go home with him on the big train, and her mother wouldn't let her go. Today, when the big diesel train made its way to the station, and stopped, her heart was _ simply throbbing with excitement. And then there he was stepping off the train, and looking both ways expectantly. "Here we are, Daddy!" Sherrie called and waved her hanky. Stan was tall and handsome. His brown tweed jacket and flannel slacks hung neatly. He has such good shoulders, Carol thought. He took off his hat when he saw them, and his thick brown hair was touched softly with gray at the temples. He was hers, and she loved him very, very much. She took Sherrie's hand and they ran to meet him. It was while they were riding home that Sherrie started relating the events of interest that had transpired in his absence. She ended by saying: "And, Daddy, Mommie put pink roses on Mother's grave on Mother's Day." The look of tenderness Stan gave Carol was priceless. She knew that should she die, she would always be lovingly remembered. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1901 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NatTIONsS'" THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT: The agents of the Exponent and those interested in the work of the women of the Church, and in higher education and elevation of women along all the many lines that tend to the uplifting of the human race, should feel it a privilege to help maintain a paper that has done and is doing what the Exponent has for the benefit of womankind.... It has entered into every work and enterprise undertaken by women, not only here at home, the centre of women's organizations of the Church, but it has reached out all over the civilized world, and sought to bring before its readers the best work being done by women the world over — Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY IN MARICOPA STAKE: The Relief Society quarterly conference was held in the Stake Tabernacle... President Mabel A. Hakes presiding. All the stake officers were present, except our treasurer who has had the misfortune to fall and break her arm. Five out of six wards were well represented with both officers and members. A good spirit prevailed, all seemed ready and willing to lend a helping hand with their means to help the poor and needy, also to assist those placed over them in rolling on this great work. Though last year was very dry considerable grain has been stored away for time of need by being sealed airtight. The insects are very bad in this hot climate. There are better prospects this year, we all want to do much more in saving grain, also beans, many fruits of all kinds. — Annie E. Fuller, Sec. IN THE WILDERNESS OF MEXICO Through the grass so tall and slender, reptiles drag their length along, In their nests the birdlings tender long have hushed their vesper song. Craggy rocks the precious metals, like unwilling prisoners hold — Flowers, too, have closed their petals, holding dewdrops in their fold, Like sentinels, the prickly cactus, rear their towering forms on high. — Ellis R. Shipp BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION: The seventy-ninth birthday anniversary of our revered and honored Mother in Israel, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, was celebrated at the handsome residence of Mrs. Philo T. Farnsworth, in this city, May 3, 1901. The beautiful parlors and library were artistically decorated with flowers, flags and historic pictures, the parlors and library in sweet peas, the dining room in red and white roses and carnations. The music was by some of the best talent in the city, Prof. Joseph Anderson and Prof. A. C. Lund.... Sister Smith was dressed in white and looked the veritable "Queen of hearts and homes," lovable and motherly and altogether charming. Those who received with her were Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mr. And Mrs. George H. Horne, Mrs. B. S. Merrill and Mrs. D. R. Allen.... A list of the names of the guests is too long for our little paper but suffice to say, it could not include all Sister Smith's friends and admirers, for they fill these valleys of the mountains and extend far away from here into other lands and climes. — Editorial Page 302 BiLIZABETH II, Queen of Great Britain, and her husband, Prince Philip, took a journey of forty-one days through India, Pakistan, and Nepal in January and February. They attended celebrations of India's birth as a republic thirteen years ago. These countries now belong to the independent states forming the Commonwealth of Nations. All acknowledge Elizabeth as the head of the Commonwealth, but have no enforced ties, as in the colonial days; only ties of friendship and also of preferential trade and fiscal benefits. 'The change of these states from colonial to commonwealth status is a surprising facet of modern history. The Queen was received with great acclaim and friendliness, which she reciprocated. QGALLY BOWLES, daughter of Under Secretary of State Chester Bowles, and Nancy Gore, daughter of Senator Albert Gore of Tennessee, are two of the earliest volunteers of the Peace Corps, set up in March by President Kennedy on a "temporary pilot basis," to serve abroad helping the inhabitants of underdeveloped nations. With no salaries and necessary maintenance allowances only, women will teach in primary and secondary schools, stressing instruction in the Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon English language; and they will also assist with public health and sanitation projects, child care, cooking and preparing foods, weaving, and the like. MBS. MARIE McGUIRE, of San Antonio, Texas, has been named by President Kennedy United States Public Housing Commissioner. She will be in charge of the Federal low-rent subsidized housing program in operation in thousands of cities and towns throughout the United States. R. CHARLOTTE ELMOTT, of Santa Barbara, California, was named the Los Angeles Times 1960 Woman of the Year in Education. Dr. Elmott, a clinical psychologist and former _ teacher, stepped down from her position as assistant superintendent of Santa Barbara Schools, division of Instructional Services, to become director of the Special Guidance Project. The program gives help — early — to the troublesome and the troubled child, thus undoubtedly saving many children from later experience with the juvenile courts. N banking, a field formerly dominated by men, 360,000 women are now employed as against 180,000 men, according to the National Association of Bank Women. Page 303 O-> EDITORIAL SEL VOL. 48 MAY 1961 Srain Up a Child As an Yndividual NE of the greatest responsibilities of a mother is to train and equip her children for life. As she watches them developing in their tender years, she is often impressed with the differences in their dispositions, attitudes, and abilities. The words of Holy Writ declare "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6). A mother comes to understand that while the training she gives her children is turned toward the same goal, it requires different training for each individual child to attain the goal. Even as babies a mother notes that one has a sunny disposition while another is silent and serious. As small children she finds that one child will assert himself and grab away toys, while another will retreat within himself and make small effort to maintain his rights. Thus she must train her children differently to have them grow to adulthood living righteously and bulwarked with the inner strength and independence which will cause them to continue to do right after they have left behind the family environment. A mother therefore studies the strengths and weaknesses of each child individually and seeks to spend a little time alone with each child, as circumstances permit. She accepts him as he is and prayerfully trains him at his point of greatest need. Page 304 Sometimes the most indifferent appearing child who responds rather rudely to overtures on his mother's part, is secretly longing for affection and hiding his need for attention behind an outward hard shell. Some children seem to have innate good manners and breeding, and to be thankful for everything; others seem to feel that they are constantly misunderstood and are ever ready to voice opposition. It was noticeable in one family that one child was always happy and contented with his Christmas presents; however, his brother always acted as if his own presents weren't as good and that the other child was especially favored. 'Their mother had the same objective in her training for the two — to make them appreciative of gifts which were given them, but what an extra amount of love, attention, and understanding were poured out by her on the discontented child before he arrived at the happy acceptance and appreciation which was inherent in his brother's character! There are at least two resolutions which a mother may make which will aid her in the proper training of her children. One is to keep an open mind and find out all the circumstances of any misunderstanding before she quickly blames a child who, atfirst glance, may seem to be the culprit. The great example to keep before one is the perfect jus- EDITORIAL tice of the Heavenly Father. Many times in life unfair conditions can be endured only because one has the knowledge that justice will be done in the end. The second resolution is to keep one's word. 'The Lord promises "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise" (D & C 82:10). A mother relies on this promise of the Lord and she should, in turn, earnestly seek to have her children look upon her promises as binding. Brigham Young felt this keenly when he admonished mothers, "What did you promise your little girl if she would do so and so? If she does ill have you promised her a chastise- 305 ment? Did you keep your word? You have not, and the child forms the conclusion in its own mind directly that the mother tells that which is not true..." (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1941 Edition, page 210). Children have a keen sense of justice and it is disheartening and confusing to them when mothers do not keep their word. The example set by a mother is all important. Heavenly Father has given to his daughters the rearing of his spiritually begotten children. No other work takes precedence over the training of each individual child so that when he is old he will not depart from that training, but be welcomed back to the celestial family circle. —M. C. S. Suburbs Christie Lund Coles Houses are similar along this street, The yards are much the same in landscape, yet Each differs from the other to complete The total image picturesquely set On this avenue of suburbia, where Trees bordering the walk, flowers in bloom, Touches of various colors here and there Transform each small house into one called Home. Here life seems calm and good; bright water sprays Upon the lawns, while ginghamed neighbors go To the corner store; while a small dog strays Behind them, moving lazily and slow. While clean and happy children jump the rope, The visitor looks on, renewing hope. Spring Housecleaning Hattie B. Maughan Wwiat has become of that good old institution spring housecleaning? Many of you will say, "It is still with us. We all have to clean off the winter's grime." Others will say, "It isn't necessary, with modern cleaning methods and conveniences, we can keep clean all the time." Others — I hate to mention the others — will just say, "Housecleaning — what's that?" I realize I place myself irrevocably in the generation where I belong, when I recall those good spring housecleaning days of my childhood. In our big seventeenroom house where I was born and lived until I went away to teach, spring housecleaning was a mammoth undertaking. It called for organization, co-operation, skill, and stamina. Mother was the executive who taught us the skills and supplied much of the stamina. My father had a distinct dislike for this upsetting of the order of things. He had his own idea of order — when he left his shoes on the oven door to dry and his clothes draped on various chairs, he liked to find them there when he returned, not hidden away in closets where you had to search for them. Fortunately, he had a legitimate escape at this time of the year, for his cattle and sheep ranch about 100 miles away always needed his immediate attention when mother got that cleaning glint in her eye. He knew when it was safe to return and came laden with freshly killed beef and lamb. It wasn't just guesswork that timed his return so perfectly, for Page 306 through all the busy years of many separations, while my father ran his various enterprises, he and mother kept up a constant and devoted correspondence. For housecleaning, one other cooperation besides that of the family and the hired help was necessary — the weatherman. With the carpets on the line to be _ beaten, clotheslines filled with the clothes from the emptied closets, and furniture lined up for a new coat of paint or varnish, you prayed for sunshine and not storm. From attic to cellar, every room was stripped and cleaned, curtains washed, carpets taken up and old straw padding removed; woodwork was scoured and every year or two repainted. In our household we learned to wield a paintbrush almost as soon as we did a toothbrush. Do you remember the rag carpets of those days, woven on the hand looms of the local weaver, the miles of rag strips that had to be torn and wound into balls to make enough of the carpeting to cover a big floor; and the clean golden straw that was spread on the floor for padding before the carpet was nailed down? I can still smell that clean, fresh smell of scrubbed pine boards and fresh straw. And how nice and soft and crunchy it was to walk on a carpet with straw padding. Cleaning the pantry and the cellar with their shelves of bottled fruit and bins of other supplies was a job mother liked to supervise personally to be sure that the cans of lye for homemade soapmaking and SPRING HOUSECLEANING the poisonous medicines got safely put back on the top shelf, where no child could touch them. She also wanted to be sure that the mousehole behind the flour bin was still safely plugged with the plaster of Paris she had put in it. The boys took care of the heavier manual tasks, such as beating the dust out of the carpets and rugs, taking down and cleaning the stovepipes, and sometimes they could be induced to engage in such effeminate tasks as window and woodwork washing. However, they much preferred the more manly tasks of piano moving or removing the leaves from the dangerously high roof and rain gutters. This was the annual spring housecleaning and not to be confused with the weekly or Saturday cleansing which also went from upstairs to cellar, but more superficially. Just as after a Saturday's cleaning you feel good and worthy to ask the Lord to be a Sabbath-day guest in your home, as you rest from your labor and worship him, so we felt that the Lord would look with 307 favor on our clean and orderly home and bless us throughout the year. Today, many of our people are apartment house dwellers who know nothing of the joys of a general housecleaning splurge. Cleaning and redecorating are the responsibility of the landlord, and, if he doesn't attend to it, how simple to move to another apartment already clean and in order — simple, but stunting to the imagination and initiative of a true home lover. Unfortunately, many people who are more permanently situated and should enjoy the pride of ownership of their homes no matter how humble, allow the disorder and accumulation of the years to pile up around them without ever digging out. Cleanliness is next to godliness and order is the first law of heaven. So great is the effect of cleanliness upon man that it extends even to his moral character. Virtue never dwelt long with filth; nor do I believe there ever was a person scrupulously attentive to cleanliness, who was a consummate villain. —Rumford This book of quotations has a film of dust upon it! Hmm — time for spring housecleaning. -~<>-° Ynside the Locket Lorena A. White Father's heavy old watch chain Was eighteen carat gold. He wore it spread across his vest, As in the days of old. And on the chain a locket hung, With hand-cut cameo, But all those years, what was inside, We children did not know; So, after he had passed away, And never more would care, We looked and found, enclosed in silk, A lock of Mother's hair. Buffet to Remember Alice Morrey Bailey A buffet supper is the answer to limited dining space and a large party. Your guests will enjoy the gay informality of serving themselves, eating where they please (furnish folding tables or TV trays for this), and will savor the evening from Chip'n Dip to the last goodnight. MENU Chip'n Dip Cucumber Cool Fluff Creamed Onions a la King Topknots and Butter Midas-Touch Punch Sweet Paprika Oven-Fried Chicken Baked Potato Parsley Butter Relishes: Pickled Beets, Sweet Gherkins, Black Olives, Currant Jelly Short Bread and Lemon Arvilla RECIPES (In Order of Preparation) CucuUMBER CooL FLUFF 1 pkg. Lime or lemon gelatin 1 tsp. Salt 1% c. Hot water 3 green onions (and tops), minced 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 c. Grated cucumbers Y% tbsp. Horse-radish " c. Mayonnaise Prepare gelatin according to directions, except with % cup less water. Add lemon juice, salt. Refrigerate until thickening to set. Beat with mixer until fluffy. Mix horse-radish with mayonnaise and fold into whipped gelatin. Fold in cucumber and onion. Chill until firm. Unmold on large platter. Garnish with salad greens, carrot curls, radishes, cucumber slices (unpeeled and scored with fork), and tomato wedges. SHORT BREAD 1 Ib. Butter 2% c. Sugar 4 c. Flour Cream butter and sugar. Knead in flour. Roll into cylinder diameter of cookie desired. Bake 6-8 minutes in 475° oven, until very light brown (easily overbaked). BoaTs FOR ONIONS A LA KING 2 c. Sifted flour 24 c. Hydrogenated shortening (chilled) 1 tsp. Salt % c. Ice water Sift flour and salt. Toss in grated shortening. Sprinkle with water and mix with fork. Roll out on heavy duty aluminum %-inch thick. Cut into oblongs 5 x 2 inches. Moisten ends of dough and press together to form boats. Bake 10-12 minutes in 475° oven. Makes 18 boats. ParsLEY BUTTER 1 square butter 1 tbsp. Minced and bruised parsley Work butter and parsley together. Mold into marble-sized balls. Stick colored round toothpick in each ball. Serve in bowl of crushed ice. Page 308 Love Is Enough CHAPTER 5 Mabel Harmer Geniel Whitworth, a schoolteacher from Denver, Colorado, takes a position at Blayney, Idaho, and lives at Mrs. Willett's boarding house. She meets Chnistine Lacy and Marva Eberhart, fellow schoolteachers, Mrs. Willett's nephew, Jeff Burrows, a rancher, and Johnny Linford, who works for the forest service. These friends are quite different from Ernest Wood, Geniel's friend who owns a shoe store in Denver. The _ schoolteachers and Mrs. Willett spend Thanksgiving at Jeff's ranch. After the pageant presented by the school, Geniel goes to Denver for the Christmas holidays. (Fors felt a wave of pleasure and excitement as she waited for the bus to arrive that would start her on the homeward trek. She had been too busy with the pageant and other Christmas preparations to think much about her vacation before. Now that she was actually on the way, she realized how very happy she was to be going home again. She would travel with Marva and Christine as far as Ogden, where she would change to a bus going east and they would continue on to their Utah homes. "This ride is going to take quite a bite out of your holiday," said Christine. "Why didn't you fly?" "T think that bus travel is rather fun,' Geniel replied. "And it will give me a good chance to relax and think. Or maybe meditate is a better word. [ll be home by morning. 'That isn't too bad." "Maybe you'll get stuck in a snowdrift or a blizzard in Wyoming and have a real adventure," suggested Marva. Page 312 "Trust you to look on_ the shiniest side,' smiled Geniel. When the bus drove up it was so full that each of the three had to take separate seats, but Geniel didn't mind. She settled down and Started her day of relaxing. The snowy landscape stretched away to the mountains, unbroken much of the way except for thin lines of fences. It had all the beauty of a Christmas card. The passengers were chattering in a gay, carefree comraderie. Geniel supposed that most of them were on their way home — or to spend the holidays with loved ones. I hope that they are all as happy as I am, she thought in a glow of Yuletide spirit. It would be wonderful to see all of the family again. The three months she had been away had seemed like that many years sometimes. It would be especially wonderful to be home for Christmas. 'The folks would already have the tree all trimmed. There would be a dozen or so gay packages underneath, so beautifully wrapped that one hesitated ever to open them. Her sister Marcie's family would be there for the Christmas Eve party, when bright red stockings would be stuffed with small gifts for everyone. Ernest would meet the bus in the morning, and there would be time to: drive past the Civic Center with all its fabulous Christmas dec- LOVE IS ENOUGH orations before he had to be at the store. At least, he would meet her if the bus wasn't late. If it was, maybe he would throw all caution to the winds and meet her anyway. Of course, they would drive past his store so that she could see the window display. Last year it had been soft blue slippers hung upon a silver tree. The miles slipped by quickly, and they arrived in Ogden just in time to see the bright lights go on. Geniel said goodbye to the other two girls and had time to eat her dinner before boarding the other bus. It was dark now, and after driving through the gaily decorated streets they started up the snow-packed canyon. Even as the night wore on, no one seemed inclined to settle down. There was talking and laughing and, before long, there were Christmas carols with almost everyone joining in. It was midnight before the last of the passengers had finally quieted down and Geniel was able to drop off to sleep. When the lights went on for the stop at Laramie, she looked out on a world of whirling snow and wind of almost blizzard proportions. The woman in the seat next to her said, "Well, if we're snowed in, at least well have a warm place to stay. It would have been much worse if we'd had to stop out there on the plains." ENIEL failed to find much comfort in the thought. Being warm wasn't all she asked or expected of this holiday. 'The warmth she wanted was that of her own fireside. They trudged inside the station 313 to find it crowded with other stranded passengers. It was three o'clock in the morning. Geniel sat down by a young mother who was struggling with a two-year-old child while trying to hold a tiny baby on her lap. Lines of weariness etched her face. "Let me take the baby," Geniel offered. "Oh, will you?" exclaimed the woman in relief. "I'm on my way to California to meet my husband. We've come from Chicago and Tammy here is already so tired and cross I don't know how we're ever going to make it." "Maybe we could put the baby down on the bench here and 'Tammy would let me hold her while you go and get something to eat and a bit of rest." She held out her arms. "I know a song," she said smiling. Tammy hesitated for a moment and then allowed Geniel to take her. The mother stood up. "Oh, thank you so much," she sighed. "Tt will be wonderful just to be able to take a few steps by myself." She walked over to the lunch counter and sat down. Geniel sang softly to the little girl and by the time the mother returned, some twenty minutes later, she had dropped off to sleep. "Now, if I could just find some place to lay her down." 'The mother looked around at the crowded waiting room where almost every available space was filled with the stranded passengers. "Never mind," said Geniel quickly. "She might awaken. I would just as soon hold her. I have noth- 314 ing else to do. Maybe you can get a catnap somewhere." "I'm so tired I could sleep standing up," the mother answered with a wry smile. "Why don't you take a hotel room and rest over for a day?" asked Geniel sympathetically. "Oh, I couldn't!" was the quick reply. "We have to get there by Christmas. Tom would be terribly disappointed." "Of course. Well, go into the rest room and see if there is a spare sofa or chair. Tl call you if my bus decides to go." The mother left, and Geniel sat there — for hours, it seemed. If I wanted time to relax and meditate I certainly have it, she thought grimly. Her mind started playing a game to help pass away the time. What would Ernest do under these circumstances—or Jeff, or Johnny, if either one were the driver of the bus, of course? Otherwise, he would do exactly the same thing as she was doing. Simply wait it out. Ernest would wait it out, too. He was cautious and would never dream of taking an unnecessary risk. Jeff would do something. If he couldn't change the weather he would change the transportation. Johnny — she was almost sure — would take a chance on getting through and would more than likely make it. The minutes ticked slowly on until the hour hand had dragged around to six a. M. Before the announcer called that the bus for Denver would be departing in ten minutes. Geniel hated to disturb the mother, but there was nothing else to do. She couldn't leave a couple of children sleeping alone on a bus station bench. She took RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 Tammy into the rest room and laid her down by her mother, and then the baby, and left them all sleeping. Snow was still falling as she went outside, but the wind had died down and no longer whipped the icy flakes into one's face. By the time they reached the outskirts of the city, even that had stopped and the landscape glistened under an ermine mantle. [! Was her father who met the bus. "Ernest phoned that he would have to open the store," he explained, giving her a bear hug and kiss. ""You know how it is this close to Christmas. He'll be around tonight." "Td much rather have you anyway, said Geniel brightly. "You always were my best beau. And you can tell me everything about everybody. Start with the family." As they drove away from the station, he said, "Ernest is really doing a fine business. He's put on two more clerks. He's talking now about opening another store." "IT said the family,' Geniel reminded him. "Who picked out the tree this year? Can 'Trudie say more than six words? Did Mom bake fruit cakes for the entire county, as usual?" "Certainly Trudie talks," replied her father proudly. "She even sings and recites poems. Kevin is the star of the kindergarten set and all the little girls are in love with him. He says so himself." Geniel laughed. "Everyone sounds utterly delicious! It's wonderful to be home — and to have a family like ours." There was a big wreath on the front door and a snowman in the LOVE IS ENOUGH front yard, the joint project of Kevin and himself, her father explained. Inside, there were hugs and kisses and a welcome that made Geniel exclaim, "You'd think I'd_ been gone for years and across a couple of oceans!" Her own room looked so comfortable and inviting that for a moment she thought, why did I ever leave? And how can I ever go back? She had to leave almost at once, however, to do her own Christmas shopping. When her mother deplored the fact that she would have to jostle the last minute crowds, Geniel answered, "Oh, but I love it. It's much more exciting than to buy months ahead. I like the decorations, the chimes, even the crowds are fun." She left right after lunch and by evening she was thoroughly tired, not only from the jostling crowds but from having missed most of her sleep the night before. When Ernest phoned that he would be late she was very much tempted to tell him not to come at all, but decided that wouldn't do. It was half past nine when he finally arrived and she quickly decided that she was glad she had let him come. He looked so wellgroomed, so self-assured, so sort of substantial. Even his slightly thinning hair seemed to give him a look of distinction., They talked briefly of her experiences and at considerable length of his present set-up and future plans. "I'm going to buy Buford out the first of the year," said Ernest. "I'm sure I can do better going it alone. Eventually, I hope to open up additional stores out in the suburb shopping centers." 35 "I'm very proud of you," said Geniel sincerely. "You have done remarkably well in a comparatively short time." "Considering that I started as a clerk, I haven't done too badly," he agreed. He left early, since both of them were tired and needed a night's rest more than visiting. HE next day Geniel took her part in filling the red felt stockings. Her mother stuffed them, for the most part, with small items she had collected all through the year, but others in the family did their share, too. There were ten of them this year, Marcie, her husband, and three children, the elder Whitworths, two aunts, who lived alone, and Ernest. Geniel had picked up a few items while doing her other shopping and had a cunning jack rabbit that hopped crazily along at the end of a tiny rubber hose. She slipped it in Ernest's stocking, then took it out again and put it in her own. Johnny would love this, she thought, just a trifle guiltily, and Ernest will think it is silly. Just before they sat down to dinner, a florist delivered a _ box containing a dozen deep red roses. Sid, her brother-in-law, had answered the door and he made the most of the occasion. "Now don't tell us that these are from Santa Claus," he begged, handing them over to Geniel. She gasped in surprise and some confusion as she read the card, "Happy Holidays. Jeff." "Come on — give " Sid continued. "Who is the secret admirer?" 316 "Why — it's my _landlady's nephew," replied Geniel, her cheeks flushing. "What an extraordinary thing for him to do." She hadn't consciously intended to make it sound as if the nephew were about nineteen years old — an irresponsible nineteen at that, who did impulsive things like sending roses to a schoolteacher. Yet, from the remarks that followed she knew that was exactly what they all thought. She was still in something of a rose-colored daze when the gifts from beneath the tree were handed around to be opened. As her father dropped Ernest's gift into her lap, the others looked at her expectantly. It was a small box with the wrapping of a well-known jeweler. She tried to open it casually and was charmed when she found a pin, fashioned of exquisite gold leaf with a single emerald in the center. Soon afterwards the children went off to their own home, leaving willingly, so that Santa would find them in bed. "You'd better leave the loot here that you collected in that stocking," Ernest advised Kevin, "if you hope to get a refill." The boy was not at all alarmed. "T've asked for a sled, and it won't go in my stocking anyway," he answered calmly. On Christmas day they made the usual rounds to the homes of friends and relatives. Just before leaving the night before, her Aunt Nina had said, "You must be sure and come to my open house tomorrow. It will be the last one. I'm selling the big place and moving to an apartment." As they drove up to the big, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 almost mansion-size house, Geniel wondered, "So Aunt Nina is really going to give up her home! It will seem strange not to come here any more. As long as I can remember this has seemed almost like a second home to me." "Yes," said her mother. "It does seem rather too bad to have to give it up. But Nina can't live here alone any longer. It's more of a burden than a pleasure now." Geniel wandered through some of the rooms, looking at them with a feeling of deep nostalgia. In the library she paused and studied the cases filled with books, many of them rather choice. Going back into the dining room, she asked, "What are you going to do with all of your books, Auntie?" "Sell them to the secondhand dealers for the most part, I suppose," was the answer. "If there are any you would like, you're more than welcome to take them." "Thanks." Geniel's face lighted up as a very intriguing idea hit her consciousness. "Just how far does that invitation extend?" "Why, all the way. I can take only a small number to the apartment. You're really quite welcome to take any you can use. They bring such a small price on the market anyway." "Tl be over first thing tomorrow," Geniel promised. HE could hardly wait to get over to her aunt's home the next day. There were books — hundreds of them — and hers for the taking. She could start a library for the Blayney school children. For that matter, it would make a wonderful start for a town library. LOVE IS ENOUGH It was just a few minutes after nine when she arrived at the house. "Merciful goodness, child!" exclaimed Nina. "Do you realize that this is the first day after Christmas and that you are home on a vacation?" "Oh, sure," she smiled. "I also realize that I have just found a gold mine, and Ill have to make the most of my opportunity to get some pay dirt. Ill start sorting the books today and arrange for some packing boxes as soon as I can. Ernest will probably help me out with those. Then all I have to do is find a way to get them up to Blayney and we'll have a grand start towards a library." "Tt all sounds very simple. Do you mind if I sit here and watch you slave away your holiday?" "Please do. Then you can check on what I take. There must be some of these you'll want to keep." "T've already packed them away. You have an open hand now on whatever is left." For a wild moment Geniel wondered if there wasn't some way she could ship the entire library to Blayney, but she quickly realized that was neither feasible nor even desirable. She wished that there were more children's books. 'There was little, quite naturally, that could be considered below the fifth grade treading level. She hesitated over an encyclopedia set that was twenty years old, and finally decided that it was better than none at all. "There must be a few facts that haven't changed in the past twenty years," she observed. She pulled out books and stacked them until her arms ached, with only a brief stop for lunch. 317 That evening she went to the Ballet de Russe with Ernest. It seemed so wonderful to be in a real theatre again. 'There was no doubt about it, a city had a great many advantages to offer. Just to be able to walk into a fine, large library was one she had never fully appreciated before. How glad she was that she had agreed to come! At first she had felt she might be too tired after the exertions of the day, but now all weariness dropped away. She felt as if she could almost join in the dance. In the exhilaration of watching the lovely "Sleeping Beauty" ballet, she smiled at Ernest and slipped her hand into his. HE next day he sent half a dozen large cardboard boxes over to Nina's house and Geniel began packing her loot, as she called it. "Pll just have to store them in Dad's basement until I find some way of getting them over to Blayney," she said. "Unless, that is, I decide to rent one of those "Drive it yourself' trucks and take them back along with me." "I wouldn't put it past you one iota," declared her aunt. '"Something up in that country has certainly taken hold of you." "As a matter of fact, I don't know what I'd do with them, if I did take them over now. [ still have the problem of finding a place for them. But if I can rustle the books, the rest of the population ought to be able to find some place to put them." She stuck to her task until all the books she had chosen were stored in the basement of her father's home. She was so excited about 318 the project that she felt she had to tell someone, so she dropped a note to Mrs. Willett, mentioning at the same time that she would be returning by plane. The rest of the week passed swiftly. There were holiday parties with friends, a day at Marcie's with the children, and a symphony concert with Ernest. "You're sure that you don't want to turn this ticket in for one on the bus?" he teased as he took her to the airport. "Oh, I'll get a bus ride, too," she answered quickly. "The plane lands at Idaho Falls. Tl still have another forty miles to go on the eround. 'That will have to do for this time," she assured Ernest as she went through the gate. The day was clear and the ride over the snowy mountains was sheer RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 delight. Almost too soon they swooped down on the airfield and she walked down the landing steps. At the railing stood Jeff, bareheaded in the wintry breeze, eyes smiling. "Oh, Jeff!" she exclaimed. "You shouldn't have come all this way to meet me! Did Mrs. Willett...?" "Nope. She didn't send me. All she did was to mention that you were flying in today and since I had to come over one day this week on business anyway, I decided it might as well be today." "Then I'll welcome you with open 9? Arms "Okay. Open!" "Come along," she laughed. "Let's get my bags and find out what kind of pie Mrs. Willet has for supper tonight." (To be continued ) Garth House in Mlay Caroline Eyring Miner Her floor 'brushed clean by winds of bustling March, And scrubbed and polished by young April's rain, She moves about the barren rooms with touch Of magic, placing hyacinths with stain Of morning sky, and scalloped daffodil Gold-filled with brightness of the captured sun. The same bright gold she sprinkles on the hill Where poppies burn, on buttercups, each one A sunbeam by the stream. The sunset glow She forms in tulip cups along the walk, With lilac plumes, heady with scent, to go With slim forsythia's trailing sun-touched stalk. With wonder, we walk starry-eyed to see The earth house decked in rainbow finery. NlarthaWecox Hacking, lTlistress of Mlany Hobbies ARTHA Wilcox Hacking, Firth, Idaho, finds much pleasure in the skillful use of her varied talents, which include knitting, crocheting, china painting, ceramics, copper tooling, and writing. During the past year, her eighty-third, she has knit thirty sweaters for her children, grandchildren, and friends, who lovingly call her "sweater girl." Her needlework has taken blue ribbons in fairs in Canada and in Idaho. She has made many bedspreads and hundreds of doilies, and has crocheted and embroidered tablecloths. Sister Hacking has an unusual talent for remodeling clothing, and is able to make beautiful articles from cast-off clothing. A collection of her poems, written for special occasions, is being published. All her life she has been active in executive and teaching positions in the Church auxiliary organizations. She is mother to ten sons and one daughter and has also given a home to three grandchildren and three other relatives. Her greatest talent of all is friendship, freely given and generously returned. 'Thousands of all ages who have known her over the years fondly speak of her as special friend and counselor. ---<-e She Recipe Marion Ellison appre recipe calls for six eggs, but I have only four. I should beat it four minutes but to save time I'll beat it only two. Bake at 300 degrees, it says here. It will cook faster at 4oo, I'm sure. Do you smell something burning? There! Look at my lovely cake! Ruined! I'll never use that recipe again! Page 319 Magazine Honor Roll for 1960 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp FiAcH year through an article in The Relief Society Magazine, the General Board seeks in one way to express its gratitude and heartfelt thanks to every Relief Society Magazine representative and Relief Society presidencies for the faithful performances of their important responsibilities to place the Magazine in the home of the sisters residing in their stakes and missions. As the Relief Society continues to grow, it is gratifying to see the Magazine subscriptions also increase with the growth in membership, taking into account the sisters throughout the Church who do not read English. During 1960 the number of subscriptions increased by 8,413, from 162,589 in 1959 to 171,002 in 1960 — a gratifying increase. 'This increase reflects the faithful performance of thousands of devoted, dedicated women who have accepted the call to serve in behalf of the Magazine as all calls are accepted in Relief Society — for a love of Relief Society work and a testimony of its worth. 'The General Board also thanks the Relief Society membership generally for their appreciation of the Magazine and their loyalty to it. Pleasure is often voiced in the fact that the Relief Society lessons appear in the Magazine as well as the other features. It preserves the original, literary work of the Latterday Saint women today as were the literary works of our pioneer sisters preserved in The Woman's Exponent. As the Church is being more widely recognized, so is The Relief Society Magazine. Increasingly subPage 320 scriptions are taken in the names of hospitals, libraries, and clipping bureaus. In stakes achieving prominence on the Honor Roll, we find the South Los Angeles Stake making first place for the fourteenth consecutive year with a percentage of 210 and with the largest number of subscriptions — 1463. Of the ten highest, in percentages, the first four places are taken by stakes in California, three in Idaho, two in Arizona, and one in Nevada. The eleventh and twelfth stakes were in New Zealand and Canada. It is thrilling to contemplate the oneness of Relief Society sisters everywhere which is nourished by the common heritage of a Magazine of their own. There are 284 stakes on the Honor Roll in 1960, which is twenty-six more than the previous year, and 2,214 wards, an increase of 198 wards. 'I'wenty-four stakes achieved at least 100 per cent in all their wards. 'The mean of all the stakes with listed percentages rose from ninety-one per cent in 1959 to ninety-two in 1960. (College stakes have only limited participation. ) The missions are to be highly commended for having twenty missions achieve Honor Roll status, an increase of four over last year. Highest honors go to the Western States Mission of the United States with 125 per cent. The second, third, and fourth places go to our Englishspeaking sisters of the Canadian Mission with 120 per cent; the Western Canadian Mission placing third with 117 per cent; and the MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1960 British Mission placing fourth with 107 per cent. These records are indeed outstanding and noteworthy. Fifteen other missions in the United States won places on the Honor Roll and the General Board welcomes the Southern Australian Mission in addition. Some of these missions are on the Honor Roll for the first time in their history. 'The mean of the missions on the Honor Roll rose from ninety-one percent in 1959 to ninety-three percent in 1960. The Northwestern States Mission led in the total number of subscriptions with 1,048. The hearts of Relief Society members glow with the warmth of understanding and love which is shared 321 through the words of counsel, inspiration, and expressions of a common bond which are to be found in The Relief Society Magazine. Many sisters are made glad by receiving a gift subscription offered by a loving sister who may never see the recipient. Gifts from stakes are shared among missions, with missionaries, investigators, and faithful sisters. Many a youth who can read English sits by the side of a devoted Relief Society mother to read from the Magazine by a flickering, small light. 'The sisterhood lights the way, and the General Board holds the generosity of Relief Society members in close remembrance. HHonors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 210% Magazine Representative — Amelia Dellenbach Ward Salinas Second Ward, Monterey Bay Stake (California) 383% Magazine Representative — Jeanne McClure Mission Western States Mission — 125% Mission Magazine Representative — Ada S. Christiansen Mission District West Nebraska District, Western States Mission — 159% Magazine Representative — Irma M. Chandler Mission Branch Hopkinsville Branch — 380% Kentucky West District, East Central States Mission Magazine Representative — Charlie Hamner Ten Highest Percentages in Stakes South Los Angeles -22.2---:-:+20-eeeoe-ee Huntington Park 0..2.2222.2..2-2-.--0-20ee cence Glendale - 22..2 ---------+0ceeceeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeees Inglewood 0---0----0---ceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeees ot ae Phoenix OOS SOS BOSSE TOTS SETS S TET TT TST HSS SHR E SESE ERED ASSSeEe 210 Amelia Dellenbach Rachel Liston -Beda Nelson Janet C. Medina itll) Beth Moore 129 Marie S$. Heywood Virginia Nichols 322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 Shelley — 120 Beth M. Clawson Piv@emix: Nomthny "sc aec eee 119 Rose Openshaw Las Vegas North ---s--c-sceeeeceeeeeseeseeeees 119 Lila H. Leavitt Missions Achieving Ten Highest Percentages Western States - --. E-ecececeeeeeececeeseeeneeeeees 125..--Ada S. Christiansen Canadian -..-.--s--cecenceeeeeeereceeceeseeseeneeesenesees120 Frances J. Monson Western Canadian --2-.-2----+-a117 Lila A. Arave FRMHIGTA sn noe-+n-nnsens=---ennSWites oasosusine=-9SEhsHaBeEEs-s=+107 -Beulah Woodbury Northwestern States 20.2..2.22-220-sseeeeeeeeeeee100 Verna Geneal L. Wood Northern States - 0 22..:22ceeeeceeeeeceeeeeeeees 98 Mary E. Maycock Eastern States - --c-ceececcecceeeeeceeeeeeeeeeees 97----Olive L. Smith Northern California 2..2.22.22-2-22-2e--- 97.---Leta C. Pugh Central States 20.2 eee eee ec eee eeeceeeeeees 96 Marcella Meador West Central States 22.2.2.-222. Eeee eee 95----Hazel Woolley Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions South Los Angeles 1463 Sugar House 940 Huntington Park 1239 South Idaho Falls 921 Glendale 1139 Big Horn 903 North Idaho Falls 1024 Davis 890 Ensign 975 Bonneville 889 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions Northwestern States 1048 British 843 West Central States 1001 Northern States 840 Central Atlantic 990 East Central States 749 Central States 896 Great Lakes 745 Southern States 845 New England 739 Stakes in Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or Over Albuquerque -Della Smith Miller Phoenix -----Marie S. Heywood Burley -..-----+-Virginia Nichols Phoenix North Rose Openshaw East Long Beach Ethel M. Lemons Pocatello Ann Egbert East Pocatello Ruth Pearson Rexburg -.---- Beth Moore Glendale -..-Beda Nelson St. Joseph -.- Nira P. Lee Granite ~ ---- Wilma D. Wetzel St. Louis -- Tessie Lake Highland -Dorothy L. Saley Shelley - -.-.--+- Beth M. Clawson Holladay Ruth C. Andrus South Bear River.. Vilate Archibald Huntington Park.. Rachel Liston Inglewood Janet C. Medina Las Vegas North.. Lila H. Leavitt Parleys - --------- Hazel S. Robison South Idaho Falls.. Violet Jaussi South Los Angeles.. Amelia Dellenbach West Covina -Lucille C. Hales West Pocatello Alta Holmes lNlission Percentages on Glonor Roll Western States 125 Northwestern States Canadian 120 Northern States Western Canadian 117 Eastern States British 107 Northern California 100 Central States 96 98 West Central States 95 North Central States 89 97 Great Lakes 84 MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1960 Gulf States California New England South Los Angeles Huntington Park Glendale Inglewood Rexburg Phoenix Burley Shelley Phoenix North Las Vegas North Auckland Toronto Whittier Yuma San Joaquin Minidoka Walnut Creek South Idaho Falls Las Vegas Virginia East Long Beach Nyssa Holladay Box Elder Santa Ana St. Joseph Santa Barbara East Pocatello Monument Park Pocatello Oquirrh Albuquerque Highland West Covina San Diego East Idaho Falls Bonneville Granite Temple View North Idaho Falls Great Falls St. Johns East Idaho Falls North Pocatello Woodruff Long Beach Olympus Juarez Denver West Cassia Covina 83 82 79 Central Atlantic States 78 Southern Australian East Central States " 77 Southern States 323 75 Eastern Atlantic States 75 Stakes by Percentages—1960 210 194 161 137 129 129 127 120 119 119 115 114 114 113 113 112 111 111 111 110 110 110 110 110 110 109 109 108 108 108 108 107 107 107 107 107 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 105 105 105 105 105 104 Granger 104 New York 104 West Boise 104 St. Louis 104 South Salt Lake 104 San Diego 104 Weber Heights 103 East Phoenix 103 Torrance 103 New Jersey 103 Parleys 103 South Bear River 103 Mill Creek 103 Orange County 103 Kansas City 102 North Tooele 102 West Pocatello 102 Burbank 101 Nampa 101 Lake View 101 Pasadena 101 Boise 101 Reseda 101 Sugar House 101 East Mesa 101 Sevier 101 Wells 101 Provo 100 Calgary 100 Chicago 100 Vancouver 100 Wilford 100 Union 100 Bountiful 100 Lethbridge 100 Mt. Rubidoux 100 Mt. Graham 100 San Bernardino 99 East Rigby 99 Twin Falls 99 West Utah 99 Beaver 98 Malad 98 Taylor 98 Young 98 Monument Park West 98 Norwalk 98 Gridley 98 East Los Angeles 97 Maricopa 97 Monterey Bay 97 Rigby Santa Rosa Grantsville Bear River Denver Wasatch Ashley Liberty North Rexburg Franklin Panguitch Fresno Ogden North Davis Juab Moapa Palmyra Uintah North Box Elder Weiser Ensign Lost River Tacoma Yellowstone San Fernando Cache Santa Monica Taylorsville Sacramento Valley View Grant Portland Snowflake Taber Farr West Pikes Peak American Falls Bannock Emigration Kolob Rose Park Grand Junction Oklahoma Palo Alto Big Horn Philadelphia Sharon Edmonton San Jose Columbia River Tucson 324 Idaho Reno North Jordan Florida Nebo St. George Blackfoot Mt. Jordan Star Valley Tooele Cottonwood East Sharon Cheyenne Richland Benson East Mill Creek Seattle Southern Arizona University West Butte Los Angeles Portneuf Davis Tulsa Blaine Deseret Honolulu East Provo Uvada Missoula Napa Raft River Zion Park Detroit Miami Park San Juan Mt. Logan Cannon Oakland-Berkeley Spanish Fork Washington Alberta Orlando San Francisco Bakersfield San Luis Obispo Kanab North Sevier Riverside Hayward Clearfield Utah South Blackfoot Lake Mead Cedar West, Hawkes Bay, Redding, and Winter RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 South Davis Minnesota Puget Sound Grand Coulee Millard Pioneer Riverdale Murray Riverton Murray South New Orleans Garfield San Mateo South Summit Bountiful South Cincinnati Timpanogos Spokane Emery Teton Mesa Ben Lomond Gooding Salmon River East Cache Springville Kearns Mt. Ogden Flagstaff Montpelier North Seattle Winder Alpine North Weber Sandy Kearns North Humboldt North Sanpete Redondo Santaquin-Tintic Bountiful North American River Moroni San Luis West Jordan Klamath Oneida South Sanpete Bear Lake Lehi Hyrum Morgan Logan Roosevelt Smithfield South Ogden Indianapolis Duchesne Lorin Farr West Sharon Carbon Ben Lomond South Parowan Salt Lake Shreveport Summit South Sevier Layton Hillside Palomar East Ogden Hamilton North Carbon Dallas Granite Park Midvale Mojave Willamette Cedar Brisbane Melbourne Lyman North Sacramento Weber Canyon Rim East Jordan San Antonio Wayne Yakima South Carolina Nevada Gunnison Orem Houston Sydney Orem West Tampa E] Paso Atlanta Lewiston Manchester Oahu *Utah State University *Brigham Young University First Stake Second Stake Third Stake (*Limited Participation) Quarters reports are included in the respective stakes and missions of which they previously formed a part. Relief Society Alberta Albuquerque Alpine American Falls American River Ashley Auckland Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaver Ben Lomond Ben Lomond South Benson Big Horn Blackfoot Blaine Boise Bonneville Bountiful Bountiful North Bountiful South Box Elder Burbank Burley Butte Cache Calgary Cannon Carbon EnrollSubscriptions ment 713 456 1125 367 515 461 190 488 352 514 527 522 423 414 584 877 655 300 553 835 504 518 496 755 668 650 463 603 408 492 722 No. 618 490 903 342 407 442 219 420 328 404 510 512 345 318% 519 807 591 265 558 889 502 410 408 828 678 828 410 567 408 429% 907 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL—1960 Pet. 87 107 80 93 79 96 115 86 93 79 oF 98 82 vl 89 92 90 88 101 106 100 79 82 110 101 a7 89 94 100 87 17 Magazine Representative Viola B. Wynder Della Smith Miller Marvel D. Sunderland Erminnie Johnson Norma Pezely Maryetta Wardle Margaret Ottley LaRue S. Pettit Ida Sorenson Jean P. Budge Lottie R. Potter Alltha Gillins Florence Campbell Geneva Pace Tess Christensen Christine Harvey Lucille Wareing Vera E. Clifford Effie Baxter June W. Kasteler Mary S. Waddoups Euphamia H. Terry Louise S. Hanson Eugenie M. Larkin Melba E. Andelin Virginia Nichols Harriet Millecam Alice D. Griffin Vernetta Reed Elda L. Hailes Gertrude W. Edwards Relief Society Cassia Cheyenne Chicago Cincinnati Clearfield Columbia Cottonwood Covina Dallas Davis Denver Denver West Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Idaho Falls East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Millcreek East Ogden East Phoenix East Pocatello East Provo East Rigby East Sharon Edmonton Emery Emigration Ensign EnrollSubscriptions ment 384 323 605 276 585 741 605 497 354 1006 433 392 746 423 A402 807 300 544 692 874 548 699 706 508 571 622 557 257 724 531 1082 No. Pet. 402 105 290 §=90 605 100 227 = 82, 497% 85 680 92 545 90 019 104 265 75 890 = 88 mao 87 A411 105 659 = 88 371 §=88 aa 68 655 881 S17 106 600 110 He 97 879 101 487 89 528 876 730 1038 549 108 503 = 888 ay 501 90 zoe 92 592% 82 494 93 975 = 94 Magazine Representative Claudia Martin Rose Eads Hazel G. Kitch | Mildred Bang Inez N. Kruitbosch Irene M. Oswald Mabel R. Baker Ardella Hackford Mona K. Watson Sarah B. Strong Jean Caine Phyllis Mohler Leatha Bennett Reta V. Cameron Ardith Johansen Elizabeth E. Steed Sarah Owens Ethel M. Lemons Valerie C. Baisley Elva M. Brown Ethe] B. Grupper Lucille Stratford Geneva Cluff Ruth Pearson Jane S. Watkins Angie B. Egan Hildegard P. Nicholes Grace V. McCurdy Edith Collard Adeline Jensen Pear] L, Whitney MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1960 325 Relief Society Farr West Flagstaff Florida Franklin Fresno Garfield Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Grand Junction Granger Granite Granite Park Grant Grantsville Great Falls Gridley Hamilton Hayward Highland Hillside Holladay Honolulu Humboldt Huntington Park Hyrum Idaho Idaho Falls Indianapolis Inglewood Juab STAKES ON HONOR ROLL—1960 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 620 578 93 447 362 81 506 461 91 808 773 96 591 562 95 294 245 83 708 11389 161 588 478 81 5381 446 84 488 453 93 615 641 104 6238 663 106 627 468 75 7 Tas 94 522 506 97 315 333 106 622 6064 98 360 272 76 661 5638 85 551 588% 107 1033 7834 76 645 710 110 440 388 88 246 196 80 640 1239 194 679 530% 78 434 397 91 468 499 107 342 266 78 584 800% 137 519 492 95 Magazine Representative Bertha H. Palmer Mavis L. Hyde Vera Williams Phyllis W. Kingsford Virginia Vetterli Lula Moore Beda Nelson Agnes L. Shaw Amy Kent Josephine Prinster Veda L. Dew Wilma D. Wetzel Lythia J. Street Consie Wynn Lucille G. Anderson Glenna MacDonald Ellen K. Christensen Ellen Blair Aura B. Kirk Dorothy L. Saley Mae M. Hickman Ruth C. Andrus Michiye Kanashiro Margaret E. Dahl Rachel Liston Rhoda M. Thorpe Elizabeth R. Stevens Erma W. Boyce Hazel M. Brinson Janet C. Medina Alligee L. Anderson Relief Society Juarez Kanab Kansas City Kearns Kearns North Klamath Kolob Lake Mead Lake View Las Vegas Las Vegas North Layton Lehi Lethbridge Liberty Logan Long Beach Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Malad Maricopa Mesa Miami Millard Millcreek Minidoka Minnesota Missoula Moapa Monterey Bay EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. $9 104 105 465 399 86 388 395 102 395 320 81 454 364 80 fas 6420S 558 519 93 432 366 85 753 761% 101 498 551 111 389 462 119 714 546 76 679 531 78 560 558 100 jo 29 96 588 459 78 610 648 105 701 544 78 649 575 89 320 302 94 5538 541 98 Tio? TaS Of 973 794% 82 254 223 88 598 502 84 404 414 103 608 681 112 310 261 84 456 401 88 286 271 95 356 346 97 Magazine Representative Fannie B. Hatch Effie L. Sorensen Venna T. Witbeck Helen S. Clayton Eileen W. McGuire Marion Sander Hilda W. Cherrington Magda Potter Mable Burgener Helen S. Toolson Lila H. Leavitt Beverly W. Stevenson Rosa Ashton Thelma E. B. Derochie Luella L. Birrell Eva L. Berntson Margaret P. Bodine Ella N. Christensen Verda M. Cohen Edna M. Hansen Maude Y. Jensen Muriel Freeman Edith D. O'Barr Violet Anne Pettley Josephine Wadsworth Martha J. H. Matern Margaret H. Merrill Bonnie Hansen Norma Ludlow Era C. Jones Louise Johnson 326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 Relief Society Montpelier Monument Park Monument Park West Morgan Moroni Mt. Graham Mt. Jordan Mt. Logan Mt. Ogden Mt. Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa Napa Nebo New Jersey New Orleans New York North Box Elder North Carbon North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sanpete North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Norwalk Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden EnrollSubscriptions ment 776 417 594 366 396 657 423 729 638 766 530 735 809 381 617 269 416 338 Te 594 640 966 438 575 666 671 572 414 496 632 434 429 784 651 No. 627 450 580 286 313 654 381% 637 517 763 445% 614% 820 335 563% 277 347 352 730 447 607 1024 399% 607% 638 534 462 354 504 507 424 473 684 619 Pet. 81 108 98 78 79 100 90 87 81 100 84 84 101 88 oa 108 83 104 95 75 95 106 Oil 106 96 80 81 86 102 80 98 110 87 95 Magazine Representative Lola McCammon Sara Stone Madelon B. Sanders Manilla W. Carter Ida Allred Annie B. Larson Rose A. Brown Lola H. Gibbons Charlotte Dean Hilda Peel Mabell A. Smith Beatrice M. Turner Ida N. Cafferty LaVaun L. Allen Leona S. Crouch Dorothy A. Keatley Evelyn G. Tolbert Thyra Stoddard Sarah T. Rasmussen Parthenia H. Rhead Helen W. Barber Ina Oswald Vonda L. Sharp Tura Hadley Myrtle B. Park Ruth E. Erickson Lillian Bulman Rhea Mickelsen Mildred Sagers Nellie Opheikens Norma Schauers Sarah Canfield Vera Weindorf Chloe F, Summerill Relief Society Oklahoma Olympus Oneida Oquirrh Orange County Orlando Palmyra Palo Alto Palomar Panguitch Park Parleys Parowan Pasadena Philadelphia Phoenix Phoenix North Pikes Peak Pioneer Pocatello Portland Portneuf Provo Puget Sound Raft Riyer Redondo Reno Reseda Rexburg Richland Rigby Riverdale Riverside Riverton EnrollSubscriptions ment 272 473 685 593 439 198 654 519 256 484 782 438 376 756 278 509 569 268 631 466 819 491 512 416 198 530 726 662 658 573 811 631 696 454 No. 252 498 541 638% 450 171 619 480 194 463 686 451 289 764% 256 658 678 250 529% 502% 766 435 514% 349% 174 A421 663 668% 852 514 788 530 593 380 Pet. 93 105 79 108 103 86 Magazine Representative Frances Boden Dorothy H. Handy Junelin P. Auger Dorothy Smith Elizabeth Reynolds Leila Prevatt Paulla C. Willes Vivian M. Anderson Elizabeth G. Wahlen Beth R. Tebbs Pearl E. Rohde Hazel S. Robison Mary L. Stubbs Maude F. Lester Pauline G. Bishop Marie S. Heywood Rose Openshaw Dorothy L. Newton Rura J. Woodall Anna Egbert Arelie Reznick Goldie Toler Myrtle M. Clayson Selna F. Burbidge Alice O. Neddo Enid M. York Mabel C. Barnard Eleanor S. Christensen Beth Moore Beth H. Rowe Ruey A. Ball Rhoda W. Priest Bess Davis Blanche B. Densley MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1960 327 Relief Society Roosevelt Rose Park Sacramento St. George St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salmon River Salt Lake San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East Sandy San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Juan San Luis San Luis Obispo San Mateo Santa Ana Santa Barbara Santa Monica Santa Rosa Santaquin-Tintic Seattle Sevier Sharon Shelley Shreveport Smithfield STAKES ON HONOR ROLL—1960 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 570 445 78 756 703 98 588 552 94 944 854% 91 502 531 106 572 625 109 206 214 104 192 156 81 8138 625 77 625 620 99 661 751 114 592 632 107 675 542 80 639 602 94 422 364 86 655 738 113 442 406 92 598 525 88 510 403 79 244 210 86 549 455 88 496 544 110 344 3874 109 807 759 94 308 294 97 404 320 79 698 619 89 846 850% 101 377 347 92 716 860 120 362 278 77 691 539 78 Magazine Representative Katie Duncan Jacqueline Loewen Adelle M. Gorsch Agnes S. Pickett Glenda G. Pulsipher Nira P. Lee Tessie Lake Keturah Moultrie Frances L. Kooyman Valeer M. Jolley Joan Knudson Enid Miller Retha H. Sheriff Elva Kershaw Gertrude P. Terry Ethel M. Martin Ruth W. Calvert Eloise B. Mahon Opal McDaniel Janet Maughan R. Elaine Pendleton Dorene M. Sheldon Marion E. Haws Gwen A. Cannon Verna F. Baldwin Sylvia Steck Laura C. Bronner Inez R. Dalton Vaneese Woffinden Beth M. Clawson Margaret H. Tucker Sadie B. Elder Relief Society Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Davis South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles South Ogden South Salt Lake South Sanpete South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Summit Taber Tacoma Taylor Taylorsville Temple View Teton Timpanogos Tooele Toronto Torrance Tucson Tulsa Twin Falls Uintah EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 637 596 94 617 634 103 657 558 85 817 688 84 Seo 921 111 696 1463 210 460 358 78 510 529 104 771 608% 79 473 362 17 420 348 88 326 289 8 89 636 553 87 562 461 82 626 508 81 702 633 90 931 940 101 352 270 77 371 3847 94 319 301 94 695 680 98 384 361 94 758 805% 106 492 402% 82 765 629 82 489 441 90 354 404 114 409 422 103 529 485 92 216 191 88 872 859 99 468 4438 95 Magazine Representative Adele H. Ballard Vilate Archibald Agnes D. Cox Gwen M. Horsley Violet Jaussi Amelia Dellenbach Hazel Goodwin Hannah Dietrich Ethel S. Hughes Vera Smith Josephine S. Wagstaff Maud Post Virginia W. Gardner Pauline Bastian Donetta Anthon Dorothy L. Worthen Nellie J. Ehlers Helen Boyer Emma B. Harris Nettie Beake Ruth S. Hovey Marjorie E. Coats Mabel E. Snow Davida Green Vera Matthews Jewel Halgren Irene W. Krist C Peggy J. Eckard Belva Jones Virginia L. Jacobson Carrie Webb Laura Simmons 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 Relief Society Union University West Utah Uvada Valley View Vancouver Virginia Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Weber Heights Weiser Wells Relief Society British California Canadian Central Atlantic States Central States East Central States Eastern Atlantic States Eastern States Great Lakes EnrollSubscriptions ment 560 584 570 319 548 190 392 618 722 785 469 555 865 Enrollment 789 179 338 1274 929 976 502 aie 891 No. 559 517% 485 281 514 190 433 689 697 681 485 525 870 Subscriptions Pct. No. Pet. 100 89 85 88 94 100 110 111 oF 87 103 95 101 Magazine ' Representative MarJean Westerfield Maud W. Johnson Bertha Memmott Martha H. Bleak Dorie N. Walton Edna Brown Cassandra L. Waddoups Marie D. Barber Leda E. M. Titus Rubye D. Mikesell Lorena E. Francis Irene H. Winegar Edith H. Koelliker Relief Society ment 645 514 591 430 366 690 448 568 407 561 817 595 270 395 West Boise West Covina West Jordan West Pocatello West Sharon West Utah Whittier Wilford Winder Woodruff Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park MISSIONS ON HONOR ROLL—1960 843 146 407 99° 896 7) 377 525 745 Magazine Representative Beulah Woodbury LaPriel S. Bunker Frances J. Monson Catherine W. Aposhian Marcella Meador Delilah L. Brown Thelma Irene O'Hill Olive L. Smith Jane Twitchell Enrollment Relief Society Gulf States New England North Central States Northern California Northern States Northwestern States Southern Australian Southern States West Central States Western Canadian Western States 522 938 411 657 858 1046 278 1122 lD 156 383 No. 671 549 467 437 284 680 509 568% 327 592 771 582 306 O47 Subscriptions No. 434 739 364 637 840 1048 214 845 1001 183 477 EnrollSubscriptions Pet. 104 107 79 102 78 99 114 100 80 106 94 98 113 88 Pet. Magazine Representative Myrtle B. Oborn Lucille C. Hales Phebe W. Johnson Alta Holmes Marion W. Bonham Edith G. Baum Juanita Singley Amy Gerrard Charlottie B. Poulton Naomi B. Harris Myrle M. White Iva Sterling Effie Nowland Pearl W. Strattan Magazirie Representative Emma A. Hanks May F. Carr Joie M. Hilton Leta C. Pugh Mary E. Maycock Verna Geneal L. Wood Edna M. Ord Elva Stella Ravsten Hazel Woolley Lila A. Arave Ada S. Christiansen MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1960 329 \LFROM THE FIELD [~~ General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Pha submitted by Kida K. Sneddon RENO STAKE (NEVADA), MOUNT ROSE AND MOUNT ROSE SECOND WARDS JOIN IN "NURSERY IS FUN" PROJECT Ada K. Sneddon, President, Reno Stake Relief Society, reports: "The day the Mount Rose Ward moved into its new chapel, the ward was divided. Right then the Relief Society sisters decided that they would improve their nursery program. Since both wards would be using the same facilities in the new building, they agreed on a joint project. Dagna MacGill became chairman. She arranged two parties for the nursery children. Each child brought a gift of a new or good used toy, nicely wrapped, to give and share. These were placed under the Christmas tree on arrival. After a story and singing period, the gifts were distributed. Each child unwrapped and showed his gift to the others, then placed it in its proper place in the toy cupboard or box. Lunch was served immediately, then the children played with their new gifts. Page 330 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 331 "Each week the nursery teacher prepares a program of interest, learning, and activity, using these toys and equipment. Gradually more items are added, permittin more flexibility in the program. The result is interested, happy children. Happy chif dren make happy mothers. Attendance at Relief Society is improving, since children are reluctant to leave the nursery when meetings are over." TIMPANOGOS STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, January 27, 1961 Left to right: Gertrude M. Richards, President, Timpanogos Stake Relief Society; Mabell Webb Jense, President, Pleasant Grove Second Ward Relief Society; Lucinda N. Pearce, who has served as a visiting teacher for fifty-eight years; Elder Boyd L. Fugal, President, Timpanogos Stake. Sister Richards reports: "The Timpanogos Stake Visiting Teachers Convention was held in Pleasant Grove, January 27, 1961. 'The convention centered on the theme 'Am I my brother's keeper?' and featured music by the stake Singing Mothers chorus, and an address by Stake President Boyd L. Fugal. "Specially honored were thirty-two sisters who had served thirty years or more as visiting teachers. The eldest, in point of service, was Sister Lucinda M. Pearce, with fifty-eight years. Sister Pearce was called to be a visiting teacher at the age of twentythree, and has served also as ward president, counselor, and class leader, but in all these callings continued as a visiting teacher. While living in Vernal, Utah, her district covered a distance of nine miles, round trip, which she traveled by team and wagon, horse and buggy, or by walking. Left a widow, with eight children, she was married to William A. Pearce, and helped to rear his eight children with her own. As part of her Relief Society work, she has put the first clothing on more than fifty new babies, and helped prepare the dead for burial. She was released as a visiting teacher only because arthritis has made walking difficult for her. "As an expression of appreciation for the devoted service given by Sister Pearce, her ward Relief Society President Mabell Webb Jense gave a tribute to her, and President Boyd L. Fugal presented her a potted chrysanthemum." 382 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 Photograph submitted by Ora M. Gatdner DESERET STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, AND LEADERSHIP MEETINGS Seated in front (in dark dresses), right to left: Roma Ekins, organist; Joyce Long, chorister. Ora M. Gardner, President, Deseret Stake Relief Society, stands third from the right on the fifth row. Sister Gardner reports: '""This chorus has been very active, and we have enjoyed their beautiful music at stake quarterly conference, the visiting teachers convention, and at each of our leadership meetings during the year. The Singing Mothers are now working on an Easter cantata to be presented in April." Photograph submitted by Jane H. Schipaanboord LIBERTY STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD HONORS RETIRING BOARD AT SOCIAL December 6, 1960 Front row, left to right, retiring board members: Cynthia Smith, chorister; Carol 'Youd, work meeting leader; Ruth Kroescher, Work Director Counselor; Verna Hunter, President; Nan Jones, organist; Margaret Allen, Magazine representative; Jane Jones, social science class leader. Back row, standing, left to right, present stake board members: Pearl Day; Nettie Stout; Lillian Janke; Rhea McRae; Ila Hatton, Education Counselor; Jane Schipaan- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 333 boord, President; Merida Huntsman, Work Director Counselor; Relda Hardy; Maurine McClean and Aleta Checketts (sisters having special assignments); Miriam Lieber; Luella Birrell. Also serving on the board, but not present when the picture was taken, are: Picola Wood and Lois Janke. President Schipaanboord reports: ""The reception was held in the assembly room of the Relief Society Building. A reception line was formed by the retiring board members where they greeted over 350 Relief Society sisters comprising the ten wards of Liberty Stake. Many former ward and stake members also attended to mingle and renew companionship. 'The current stake officers acted as hostesses in greeting and welcoming those present. The occasion gave the sisters an opportunity to visit with former stake board members, as well as a chance to view the lovely Relief Society Building. Refreshments were served. The afternoon was one of enjoyment and inspiration. Sister Hunter has served as stake Relief Society President for the past seven and one-half years." Mistecraph saltaitved by Rhoda (Cl Taylor MEXICAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND DISTRICT OFFICERS AT BREADMAKING DEMONSTRATON Front row, left to right: Bertha Morales; Natividad Cardosa; Cipri Valencia. Second row, left to right: Elena Villalobos; Reyna Molina; Raquel Saunders; Severiana Mesa; Maria Delgado. Back row, left to right: Rhoda C. Taylor, President, Mexican Mission Relief Society; Anna Rodriguez; Lorenzo Mesa (with head turned); Jeannette Hubbert; Ella Farnsworth. Sister Taylor reports: "Sharing ideas and learning new activities are engaged in by the mission and district officers of the Mexican Mission Relief Society, exemplified during a recent district meeting. The baking of brown and sweet bread was a part of the demonstration presented by Cipri Valencia. Various work meeting instructions were given, along with helps for branch preparation meetings, and each district officer was also given a box of used clothes to be distributed among branch Relief Society presidents to be remodeled or used as needed. Mission and district officers meet regularly to prepare for coming months, sharing ideas and discussing improv ements which the district officers present to the branch Relief Societies of the mission. 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 Pheverraon sulmineved abet Hazel G. Kitch CHICAGO STAKE (ILLINOIS) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT TWO CONCERTS AS A BUILDING FUND PROJECT Standing at the left im the front row is organist Veldron Matheson; accompanist Naomi Graves stands in the third row, sixth from the right. Director Bernice Lindsey stands at the right in the second row. Hazel G. Kitch, President, Chicago Stake Relief Society, reports: '""On October 29, 1960, the Chicago Stake Singing Mothers presented their 'Concert in Autumn' at the stake house in Wilmette, Illinois, before an audience of stake members. On December 3, 1960, it was performed in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 'The program was in two parts: Part Il—'"Ilhis Is My Country,' and Part Il—'This Is My Church.' Both concerts were building fund projects for the new stake house. Nine wards were represented in this Singing Mothers chorus. Plans and rehearsals for the 1961 concert are now underway." H Photograph submitted by Ruth J. Harrison ROSE PARK STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, January 21, 1961 Front row, left to right, beginning fifth from the left: Ruth Pack, organist; Clea M. Fowler, Second Counselor; Ruth J. Harrison, President; Ruth G. Murphy, First Counselor; Vauna Moosman, Secretary-Treasurer; Marilyn Mecham, chorister. Sister Harrison reports: "This very successful convention featured an original skit written by board members Marjorie Pehrson and Ruth Steenblik. Two musical selections by the Singing Mothers highlighted the convention, under the direction of chorister Marilyn Mecham and accompanist Ruth Pack. Members of the Singing Mothers group came from all eight wards of the stake. Seven of the eight wards were commended NOTES FROM THE FIELD 335 for visiting every district in their wards each month during the past year. The other ward missed by one district one month. Special recognition was given to Rose Park Eighth Ward for having the largest percentage of visiting teachers at the convention and at the monthly report meetings during the past year. Alice Campbell, visiting teacher message leader from Rose Park Eighth Ward, gave an inspirational talk on 'Joys of Service in Relief Society.' Stake President Joseph F. Steenblik was present and spoke to the group, paying tribute to the visiting teachers and offering words of encouragement." Photograph submitted 7 Hattie a 'Manga | UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY STAKE, FIFTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, December 11, 1960 Lorraine Palmer, Fifth Ward work meeting leader, is shown displaying some of the bazaar toys to the children, left to right: Jay Peterson, Shelley Crockett, Kent Bills, and Jay Bills. Hattie B. Maughan, President, Utah State University Stake, reports: ""We felt that perhaps this picture, with emphasis on the catering to the needs and the pocket books of parents with small children, was quite representative of our stake. Our wards in which the Relief Society membership consists largely of young mothers meet at might, thus eliminating the necessity of maintaining a nursery. Father's role as a baby sitter is an important one, and I have come to appreciate these co-operative young fathers quite as much as their capable young wives." 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 Photograph submitted by Marjorie M. Reeve KANSAS CITY STAKE VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION January 18, 1961 Visiting teachers with twenty years of service or more, front row, left to right: Myrtle Watkins; Josephine Johnson; Emma Wilhelm; Nellie Preator; Juanita Sharp. Second row, left to mght: Elizabeth Dopp; Estella Barker; Elda Black; Juanita Smith; Ruby Harris; Frida Waters; Olive Kallstrom; Helen Smith. Back row, left to nght: Hattie Dillon; Marian Crow; Cloe Pope; Juanita Black. Marjorie M. Reeve, President, Kansas City Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our visiting teachers convention was held January 18, 1961. We had a lovely program. The visiting teachers were all honored with a calendar which had the responsibilities of a visiting teacher printed on it. Each sister who had been a visiting teacher over twenty years was presented with a beautiful corsage. A social followed. Eighty-seven per cent of the visiting teachers of the stake were present." Photograph submitted by Dolores C. Fife NEW ORLEANS STAKE (LOUISIANA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, March 1960 Front row, left to right, beginning ninth from the left, former officers: Eliza W. Barletter, First Counselor; Norma J. Garriga, Secretary-Treasurer; Dolores C. Fife, President; Pearl Thames, chorister. Sister Fife reports: "This is the first chorus to be organized in our stake since it was organized in June 1955. In the past thirty-two years of the Church here in this NOTES FROM THE FIELD 337 area, this is the first time for a large group of sisters to get together and sing. Two lovely numbers were presented. The sisters whose names are not listed make up the presidencies and teachers of twenty-one Relief Societies in our stake. Pearl Thames organized the Singing Mothers, but because of distance, the various ward groups practiced in their own wards, and all got together for the March 1960 conference for the first time." Beulah Burgon Larson is the recently appointed president of New Orleans Stake Relief Society. -<>-+ Linn 5 \Chales Lula Walker The air was warm, a touch of breeze Astir in new-leafed maple trees — A made-to-order day for cleaning. She pictured floors and windows gleaming. Then neighbors tapped her windowpane — "The weather's fine, no hint of rain, Let's picnic in the woods. We've room"; She declined. Gay voices echoed fun While she hung woolens out to sun. All done, at evening, she relaxed. Her windows shone, floors freshly waxed, A spotless house, but was it worth The price, with spring upon the earth? Beauty Arlene D. Cloward ys last summer I learned the true definition of the word beauty. My little family and I started along the skyline drive with our car packed to overflowing with camping gear, and excited anticipation. We followed a rutted, dusty road which wound steadily up among trees dipping leafy boughs in a lacy arch above us. Occasionally, the foliage parted to reveal a sparkling stream trickling merrily along, dashing sunsplashed ripples against the protruding rocks. Pine trees rose lofty and solemn amid lush meadows of softly whispering grass. Brilliant blue wild flowers raised proud blossoms to mirror the sky, and small, golden-faced buds unfolded beneath the sun's caress. A buck, regal and proud, moved smoothly among the shimmering aspens, turning his velvety, widespread antlers slowly in our direction. He eyed us carefully, and then, with a profound grace, he moved his powerful body and sprang effortlessly up the hillside and disappeared. The road stopped its steep climbing and leveled out. We were on the very skyline, gazing out over breathtaking stretches of valleys and mountains flung out to the horizon in a haze of color. I glanced at my two excited little bovs, their blue eyes wide with joy. And as I had seen beauty in the proud mantle of the trees, the ripple of the stream, the glory of the blossoms, and the majesty of the buck, I now saw beauty in the faces of two little boys. Use this advertisement as your order blank SACRED MUSIC FOR THREE PART LADIES CHORUSES COME, YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen ----+--.20 GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner _.30 GO YE FORTH WITH MY WORD—Madsen 265 IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen...25 INCLINE YOUR EAR—Wilkes...25 IN THY FORM—Madsen.20 LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens ---.20 LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS—Elqgar. ---. Eeceeeeee 25 LORD, HEAR OUR PRAYER— eT: | a is -20 LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen.20 OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25 THE 23rd PSALM—Schubert.25 Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY iM Es Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. ' { ' CL] On Approval L] Charge L] Money Enclosed!! { | | { \ VA AAILLILLLIIATL ae lst South salt Lake City 11, Utah Page 338 GYesus Texas A. Gladden A man of sorrow and full of grief, He walked this earthly sod. That through obedience and belief, We might come back to God. While upon this earth he trod, He never aspired to fame, Yet, every blessing under God Comes to us through his name. He made the sick recover; He even raised the dead. And, yet, the lonely Son of God Had not where to lay his head. His mother loved him dearly, So, she was standing by; She saw the Savior led away And knew that he must die. He gave of his divine power, And much more he had to give, For in his last forsaken hour He died that we might live. The Hard Way Celia Luce F I sin or do wrong in any way, I can react in two ways. First is the easy way — I can justify myself. It just wasn't my fault, someone else made me do it; or, everyone else was doing the same thing; or, it wasn't such a bad thing, after all. The hard thing to do is to admit my guilt and see what I can do to make things right again. It takes real courage to go to someone and say, "I was wrong, and I am sorry. What can I do to make things right again?" But this is the only way to make things right with others. Ordinarily, they will forgive us, and respect us for our courage. Of course, we should never forget to ask God's forgiveness, also. Jo Be a Grandmother Harriet De Spain (2 is a joy and a wonder to be a grandmother. I have a little grandson who, upon seeing me come down the street toward him at play, lifts his head like a proud alerted deer, then he runs toward me shouting, ""Grandma! Grandma! Grandma!'' I have need to brace myself against the onslaught of his eager body. His embrace is not prolonged, for he turns and runs as fast as his little short legs allow into the house, leaving all doors open behind him as he shouts, "Grandma is here! Grandma is here!'' Surely no fanfare of trumpets or ritual of queens is as sweet and heart stirring as this heralding of my approach! My startled daughter appears. Her anxious and critical expression is reminiscent of my own young motherhood, when my emotions were so dominated by my _ sense of responsibility that I could only hear the noise and see the not-too-clean face, instead of the love, innocence, and devotion behind it. Surely Grandmother has the advantage of the wisdom she _ has gained through the years of living. I am deeply grateful for life. My grandson allows me just a few minutes of his time, then the important business of play calls him outside. But before he goes he bestows a possessive and proud pat upon my knee, and he says, "Don't you go away." My heart is filled with love and a little sadness, too, for I know how fleeting are these precious moments. But, however short, he has made me an important person in his life. He has made me the recipient of more love and devotion than my soul can contain. It fills me with the knowledge of God's love and goodness towards me. I resolve prayerfully to be the grandmother that my grandson thinks I am. Take a tip from Zippy the Zions Savings Bug Your savings earn more at Z. S.& L. That's nght it's smart arithmetic, and plain good sense to Save your money at ZIONS SAVINGS & LOAN because it can earn big plus for possible current bonus of total of rate of up to up to 4% +1%=9% Choose from either of these two bonus plans ie Systematic Savings 2. Fully Paid Savings Certificate YOUR SAVINGS INSURED UP TO $10,000 BY A FEDERAL AGENCY Start earning up to 5% today at Utah's first savings and loan ass'n. ZIONS SAVINGS and Loan Association 33 E. First South, Salt Lake City 4901 S. State Street, Murray, Utah Page 339 TOURS FOR 1961 APRIL—Hawaii MAY—Mexico JUNE—Hawaii, Mexico, and Northwest, and Alaska JULY—Hawaii, Pageant and Historical Eastern Tour AUGUST—Southern California (San Francisco, Reno, Los Angeles) AUGUST—Europe OCTOBER — Aloha Week (Hawaii) DECEMBER—Rose Parade Tour JANUARY—Around the World Cruise Margaret Lund Travel Service 72 East 4th South Moxum Hotel Lobby Box 2065 Salt Lake City 11, Utah DA 2-5559 — HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Amazing NEW! MAGNIFYING GLASS M ADJUSTABLE A SPECIAL GIFT for MOTHER'S DAY Helps You See Better Leaves Hands Free To Work Unfolds so that it can be hung from the neck and be supported away from the body leaving both hands free to do dozens of tedious 'obs. Small objects become larger. Folds up small enough to carry in a ladies' purse or man's pocket. Comes with case. LOOK — Many Uses It is especially good for: 1. Reading. 2. Needlepoint. 3. Sewing. Iy Removing slivers. 6. Crocheting. Threading needle. Mother's Day Special $5.00 Also lovely book of poems MOODS AND MEMORIES by Fannie G. Brunt $2.00 prepaid DESERET SUPPLY Box FG 145 — Shipping Address 464 N. 8 W. Salt Lake City 16, Utah Page 340 Hearts Rowena Jensen Bills Hearts never know the poetry in a sea of rest, The rapture of a sunset from the mountain's crest; Peaceful valley dawnbreaks reflecting crimson snow, Magnificence of corn stalks in the sun's bright glow; Overflowing happiness in a young child's laugh, Thrill of awaited footsteps on the garden path; The luxury encircled in a homely room, Mysteries of lilac-time and rosebuds first in bloom; Nostalgia from a perfume or a white lace glove, Unless they have walked intimately with beauty and with love. Sin Seas Ethel Jacobson Above high-tide line swells Another undulant sea, Patterned in stars and bells— This wildflower tapestry: Poppies' gold, newly minted; Sea pinks, seashell-tinted; Strawberry blossoms, white and jadey Seaside-daisies, silken rayed; Paintbrushes' crimson plumes; Monkey flowers' creamy blooms; Mauve verbena; and the beach Morning glories' frosty peach. Above the gleaming strand This flood of many hues Foams over silver sand To meet the ocean's blues. GET FULL HOUSEPOWER 7" HOUSEPQOWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. The Booklet THOSE FOOLISH MORMONS by Rulon Killian Clearly and vividly explains why those Latter-day Saints who do not fully exemplify the gospel principles in their lives are losing their priceless heritage. It is brim full of unique evidence showing that Joseph Smith was visited and _instructed by angels. At Deseret Book Co. — 50c At Store or Postpaid in Utah 5lc 44 E. So. Temple Salt Lake City, Utah e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 0 0 235 150 to 300 miles 0.39 300 to 600 miles --2 -..-.. 45 600 to 1000 miles.54 1000 to 1400 miles.64 1400 to 1800 miles __ 0.000202000 76 Over 1800 miles _ --.00000 0..87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Beginning and advanced classes start soon. Type your letters, minutes, reports, genealogy sheets, etc. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main — EM 3-2765 Salt Lake City, Utah TT A I A tt SS IS Page 34] Except for the Daisies Mabel Jones Gabbott Except for the daisies, running riot Over the meadow, it is quiet. Quiet as green grass making a way To the light of earth's noon-filled day; Or as a purple violet Hiding in shadows, shaded, wet; Quiet as leaves after a storm, Glistening cool, summer warm; Quiescent as my turmoiled soul, Now replenished and made whole Accepting his gift, the cross on the hill. Except for the daisies, all is still. Long carriage Genealogy So Beautiful Beloved Ty pewri ters Grace Barker Wilson Grandchild, so beautiful, beloved, Laugh while yet the day Is full of shining sunbeams. Fill well your soul with light To guide you through the dark Of times past all believing When years have come and gone. Yal KMM 89.95 Gaze long on lovely things; Others 39.95 to 99.95 scnitamas ni y 85> {Ps a fact! ZCMI has the greatest assorte Hold close your visions, dreams, ment of long carriage typewriters. No A asailaiein" tienaiin more folding of genealogy sheets. All factory reconditioned, guaranteed 90 Some day you will remember days. Credit terms. And be glad for golden days ZCMI STATIONERY = Street Floor Arena Of innocence and joy. EF C NI I Grandchild, so beautiful, beloved. Page 342 some frivolous, some practical, all certain to please — come in, write or phone your choice Imported from Australia, lambs wool pompon duster, picks up dust like magic, washable, color fast. Pink, lemon, lime, orange, white, blue, 2.98. Notions — street floor Serving oven with aluminum basket. Copper 'n' snow by West Bend. Heat and serve many foods. Heats on top of the range, 4.98. Housewares — downstairs store Decorated tissue box of colorful plastic. Yellow, pink, blue, green, white or gold. Holds standard size tissues, 4.00. Cosmetics — street floor ee ss Salt Lake area Me DA 2-1585 = —= 24 HOURS every day Ogden, dial TAylor 5-2212, also Roy, Clearfield, Kaysville, Layton, North Ogden and Sunset. Provo, dial FRanklin 4-1731, also Orem and Springville. ZENITH 801 from Logan, Brigham,. Farmington, Heber, Tooele, Lehi, American Fork, Spanish Fork, Pleasant Grove and Payson. Food umbrella, colorful, practical food protector for outdoor entertaining, picnics, barbecues, 1.00. Gifts — third floor ZCMI SHOPPING SERVICE P. O. Box 1229 Salt Lake City 10, Utah Quontity Item Color Price | [Check or MO. [|] Charge | | C. O. D. INGMOR ww et wee ee eee Address) 61. Te ee eee ee City 6.2 eeeZone State Shipping charges: serving oven, 35c; others 24c first, 3¢ each additional. Utah residents add 212% sales tax. Page 343 TOUR TO MIAMI, FLORIDA Leaving the last of May. NORTHWEST, BANFF, AND LAKE LOUISE TOUR June 24, 1961. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July 21, 1961. Twenty-three days, including Boston, Washington, New York, and Chicago. Top Broadway show will be seen. Church historical places will also be visited such as Nauvoo and Adam-Ondi-Ahman. Ask about our tours to the BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY (including Mt. Rushmore) EUROPEAN TOUR IN MAY HAWAIIAN TOUR IN SEPTEMBER ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Mrs. EvizABETH TERRY BLAIR Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. AticeE M. HANnsen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Hattre AMELIA BUSHNELL FOSTER Belleville, Ontario, Canada Ninety-four Mrs. Emirty Lupvicson Lowry Colton, California Mrs. JOSEPHINE ANDERSON NIELSON THORNLEY Los Angeles, California Ninety-three Mrs. Mary Ann Sotomon Woop Cardston, Alberta Canada Page 344 Mrs. Lois BARTIN WHITTAKER Circleville, Utah Mrs. AnnIE E. Morrett Smoot, Wyoming Ninety-two Mrs. Nancy Hammer MatTHews Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Annie LeicGH Mace Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ExvizA ANN CuHapwick RANDALL North Ogden, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. IpA REyNoLps McELDOWNEY Norwalk, California Mrs. EMMA RoBERTSHAW DESMOND FENDRY Bradford, England Mrs. CAROLINE FREDRICKSEN JORGENSEN Mt. Pleasant, Utah Mrs. Ciara Louise CrisMON JOHNSON Ceres, California Mrs. Extten ADELL LEAVITT PAXTON Kanosh, Utah Mrs. Marcetia Swasey ALLEN Hood River, Oregon Ninety Mrs. Jutia ExvizaA HutcHens Parry Ogden, Utah Mrs. Potty Waker Harris Orem, Utah Mrs. CHar. OtTre LizEtTE SCHREPEL O'CoNNOR Los Angeles, California Mrs. Minnie ApA May LEE Cardston, Alberta Canada Mrs. Sara JONES HARMAN Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ReBEccA PRISCILLA ALPHIN OrTON Panguitch, Utah Mrs. Eva ELENORE JENSEN Rexburg, Idaho JENSEN LIVING TRUTHS FROM THE DOCTRINE & COVENANTS Christine Hinckley Robinson Originally prepared as Relief Society Visiting Teacher Messages, these living truths are based on selected quotations from modern-day revelations. Most of the messages have been amplified. Each "Gem of Truth" is herein presented distinct and apart from the others and each can be read as a separate and complete message. They set forth eternal, unchangeable principles, designed to serve as a practical guide to spiritual daily living. Belle S. Spafford, President of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, says: '""The scriptural quotations as analyzed and discussed by Mrs. Robinson in this volume, are designed to bring faith and courage to readers, and to inspire them to order their lives in conformity with these messages. They are universal in appeal and adaptability. It is a pleasure to recommend this volume for quiet, reflective, inspirational reading, and as a valuable guidepost to daily living." $2.00 ee | I | | | | | | NN en ne eee eee Deseret Book Company order ({ closed $ Address City.. Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find { )} | have an account Name ooo. Conc ccceeceee ceeeceessee eens 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 7 | ) check ( ) money | Please charge. Amount en- | for - copy (copies) of | I | | } I "Living Truths from the Doctrine and Covenants." Lone State Residents of Utah include 21/2% sales tax. You probably have this card: mks BEEN ESTAGLISFIED FOR John Q. Public q. | sensrear "Ps FOR SOCIAL SECURITY PURPUSES " NOT FOR IDENTIFICATION But do you have - what you need to go with it? Y Mor - — °. Y: ° Ras bsp Lab: P ee, Many families have never taken the trouble to find out just how much i they have accrued in their Social Security account what old age on benefits they are entitled to... Or how much life insurance they should So. Have to round out their retirement income program. Te Your Beneficial agent is highly trained to recommend the best. Program eae an "ee for your present income and your future needs. Ask him to call on you Beneficial Building "te, soon or mail the coupon below. Salt Lake City, Utah mee, *e, Over half billion dollars of life insurance in force Please send information about "te how much life insurance | need ee to supplement my Social Security. *e, Name S000 Oe C acceso @ ", " - on Street or RFD. '; "2, City >) Zoner State.
