two hundred acres composed of a strange formation, THE ENCHANTED LAND. 371 built by carbonate of lime and other minerals, brought to the surface by the boiling springs; just as the tiny insect builds the coral reef, so the gentle pulsation of the water as it cools, forms beautiful incrusted basins which look like great white china-bowls, with quantities of white tissue lace scalloped and shirred all around the edges, and each bowl filled with water that reflects the glory of the sky. The magic touch of the mineral water has intermingled many varigated shades like skeins of fine embroidery silk—one of the places in the world where the flow of water builds up instead of wearing away. On a plateau just below us stands Liberty Cap, the cone of an ancient geyser, forty feet in height—Nature's own monument to mark the north entrance to her scenic wonderland. Angel Terrace, an amphitheater of old formation, is still more marvelous and unique than Jupiter. I dismounted, and while the guests proceeded farther up the mountain, I sat on a rock and wrote: A pilgrim in search of-Beauty, I traveled the glorious West; I found the print of her silver shoe far up on the mountain crest, But here on this magic terrace, where angels' feet have trod I found my fairy goddess, throwing kisses up to God. Words fail; the terraces are beautiful beyond description. Going from the Pinacles of Parnassus to the very depth of the nether world, we visited the Devil's Kitchen, the only opening in the ground that is not filled with poison gas. His Satanic majesty was not at home, but fearing he might return and we would lose the horse wrangler and one of the guests, although I will not mention names, we rode on, paused a few moments to see the buffalo herd, then galloped down the highway, through _ Silver Gate where the rocks look as if some prehistoric race had built an immense city and at some later date it had been destroyed by an earthquake and only the magnificent archway left standing. We crossed a flower-covered plateau where snap dragons, golden rod, and mountain daisies threw kisses at us, with their dainty fragrant fringes, and meadow-larks and wood-warblers filled the air with liquid melody, our hearts beat in harmony with the lyric music of these feathered songsters, and our city-starved lungs seemed suddenly filled with life and joy. \ WILLOW CAMP The first night was spent at 'Willow Creek Camp. A heavy rain storm overtook us, but regardless of the dark clouds and chilling weather, the Damsels took a dip in Willow Creek, came out with chattering teeth and glowing cheeks, to enjoy a delicious dinner which was soon served by our cheerful cook, who was an ex-school teacher from the tall corn state; and, let me say right here, France never produced a better chef than Stella was. The 
 evening was spent singing songs and telling stories around our smoky camp fire. The company had provided a little pup tent, bed, camp stool, and wash basin for each quest, with instructions to place our basin and a stout stick near our bed at night. The reason for this will be explained later. The rain continued; our fire smoldered; we sought our cozy WATERFALL, YELLOWSTONE PARK couch on the bosom of Mother Earth; and, believe me, I never thought any mother could be so hard hearted. Morning dawned at last, and O! What a glorious morning. The mountain air was fresh, invigorating, and full of the pungent odor of damp earth and fresh, green pines. The sky looked THE ENCHANTED LAND 373 like an immense dry-goods counter piled high with yards and yards of crimson and sapphire satin which gradually floated away over the hill tops in billows of transparent beauty, and the snowcapped peaks in the distance were crowned with halos of pearled platinum, and yellow gold. Two deer with large, limpid eyes timidly ventured near, but when I held out my hand coaxingly, they threw their haughty little heads in the air and bounded away into the forest. A lazy porcupine rubbed his sleepy eyes, and wriggled toward me, begging for favors. As I walked down through the green pine woods, two large birds flew at me, squawking and squalling in a most peculiar manner. One lit on my 'shoulder, the other on my head. I exclaimed, "Birds, birds, what do you want?" They flew toward camp, returned and attacked me again. Things were getting entirely too interesting for a woman this side of forty. I was hungry anyway, so I started for camp. I met the cook with a stick of wood in one hand and the frying pan in the. Other, flying down the path after a big, brown bear that was making away with a side of bacon. "Doggone you! You old rascal! Pll knock your block off. Vl kill you, if I ever catch you around here again. There, take that." She threw the stick after old Mrs. Bruno. Two little cubs that had taken refuge in a tree, climbed down and went hurriedly humping after their mother. "Stop her! Stop her!" yelled the Young Chap, "I want to get a snap shot." He followed the bear into the woods. "O Stella," I exclaimed, "I have been attacked 'by two ferocious birds." She sat down ona log and laughed. I could not catch her viewpoint. Having one's eyes literally picked out by two carniverous birds is no joke. The bear had our bacon, and worse yet, those birds had followed us, and were flying round and round croaking like Poe's Raven.. "Gracious, here they come again. What'll I do?" I shook her hard; she stopped laughing long enough to explain. "O, they are only "camp robbers.' That is their woodland way of asking for food." ~ We returned to camp. The Physical Culture Man had rounded up the Damsels and was putting them through their daily dozen. Hearts Delight had decorated the table with wild flowers till it looked like a wedding breakfast. The Embroidered One - with his assistants were saddling the horses. Our party looked like a company of movie actors out on location, beaming, bustling, and busy. The joy of eating out in the open can never be expressed in words or described by mortal pen. That never-to-be-forgotten breakfast was the best meal I have ever tasted. The Philadelphia Lawyer said it was ham and—but it tasted like ambrosia to me. The fiery Belshazzar started his daily dozen. I saw he had decided to become impossible. Physical Culture came to my 
 rescue. 'You'd better exchange horses with me. My mount | is very gentle." "O, thanks, thanks. Do you carry life insurance?" I timidly inquired. "Stand still, you brute," Physical Culture spoke with authority and hit the horse a rap! With his whip. Belshazzar stood. Physical Culture mounted, and being of a poetic turn of mind, quoted, "Now snort till your nostrils are red as red wine, but with me on your back, you are mine, you are mine. You are mine, you ' are mine, and rebellion is vain." But he wasn't and never would be. Physical Culture, like Elijah of old, ascended; being unable to overcome the law of gravitation he descended, but fortunately landed in a clump of green shrubs. After the Philadelphia Lawyer pulled him out, he exclaimed, "The obstreperous brute! My word! Never again! Here's where we part company." He limped toward his original mount. The assistant guide climbed Belshazzar's quivering, vibrating frame, gave us a reproduction of a wild west broncho-busting contest, mangled up the air for a mile or two, returned with his highness, puffing and sweating, but subdued. "There you aré, sir, you can manage now. If he becomes unruly, rowell him." "O I say, I couldn't think of it. I have orders from my physician to avoid all strenuous exercise. It would be very unwise for me to take a chance of meeting with an accident so far away from home." My reputation as a hoo-doo dispeller was suffering from. An attack of the hebijebies, and my courage had the wabbles. I swallowed hard, recalled Jesson twenty-three in applied 'psychology, and affirmed, "Wild animals can be eonquered by kindness," and cautiously approached the wild-eyed bronco. "Kindness, nothing, take this spurr." Earl strapped the persuader on my foot with further advice. "There's nothing the matter with that old wall-eyed outlaw. Rowell him, ma'am. Kick him good." "All set." Tex Holmes took the lead. Of course, the Damsels followed that resplendent, flamboyant blaze of western romance. Mr. And Mrs. Van W.— followed. Physical Culture fell in. I joined the Philadelphia Lawyer. I wanted to get some expert legal advice regarding Aunt Sophronia's estate that had been thoughtlessly left to the Spirit Research Society, so decided to take advantage of the opportunity and also the attorney. We passed Beaver Dam, Twin Lakes, and Roaring Mountain where so many geysers are constantly spouting and hissing that one would think a dozen factories were at work down below. The mountains have a bald-headed appearance where the trees ' have all been burned away. At Norris Basin, Black Growler and the Monarch played for THE ENCHANTED LAND 375 us, a cloud-burst of jewels sparkling in the noon-day sun. Here we met the Wyoming Valley Ranch Company with a party of seventy-five girls, seeing America in the same manner as ourselves. They must have been from some young ladies' seminary, for they were all properly dressed in outing costume, which consisted of knickers, bright-colored sweaters, and cowboy hats. It made me very happy to see our young girls growing into strong women. Columbia has need of healthy daughters for they are the future mothers of the race. Our second guide, regardless of his jealous wife, (all young guides have jealous wives) applied for a position with their manWOODLAND WONDERS, YELLOWSTONE PARK | ager. Like a bumble bee in a buckwheat patch, he would have left our modest flowers for that grand bouquet of beauties, but our damsel from "New Jersey" cast her fascinating orbs upon him and he surrendered. We forded Gibbons' river just below the falls where shining trout were leaping and dancing, found a shady grotto and made our second camp. The Young Chap tied the bacon in a sack, climbed a tree, and hung it out upon a high limb. "There now, let's see if they can get that down.' Without further remarks, cook went about her task. Another bright, happy campfire with songs, jokes, and stories, concluded our perfect day. A MIDNIGHT ALARM Somewhere in the dead, vast, and middle of the night, I heard a. Dreadful commotion. I thought some volcano had suddenly erupted. Bang! Bang! Bang! I did not know an Apache 
 War Dance had been scheduled for our entertainment, but having no desire to miss anything, hurried ut, scantly clad in a kimono. "Get away from here. Get away.'' Cook's only weapon was her wash basin which she pounded for dear life. The business man grabbed two sticks of wood and attacked our unwelcome visitors. 'Heavens,' screamed the Damsels, "Bears! Bears!" Two commenced to climb a tree while the rest ran to the protecting arms of Tex Holmes who bravely kicked the prowlers out of camp. Quiet being restored to our Elysium we again sought the arms of Morpheus. THE PAINT POTS The following day, while the guests were resting, Stella and I visited Excelsior Geyser, King of Wonders, an inconceivable, boiling lake,, constantly leaping and dancing from ten to twenty feet in the air. Spellbound, we contemplated it with bated breath. It seemed as if Old Mother Nature had put her tub of blueing on the fire to warm, gone away to superintend the planting of the sequoia trees in California, and had forgotten it. We sat there for over an hour. Nothing happened. A traveling photographer came by. Stella, with a polite, "Excuse me, sir," asked, "When does this geyser play?" "Tt doesn't play, Madam. Away back in the early eighties, some one wanted it to play for General Grant, and in order to hurry it up, threw a bar of soap into the crater, which caused it to explode. It has never played since." "That settles it. Come on." We walked over to Prismatic Pool, a kaleidoscope of colors, that looked like an immense Kohi-noor sparkling on the green gown of Mother Earth.. They say artists and poets see brighter colors than other poor, earth-born mortals, but 'Mr. John Finley has not overdrawn his description of these boiling pools of varigated plastic mud: "Near by the vats of color stand Orange and carmen, brown and blue From which the Master Artist hand Painted the blossoms, dyed the land, And gave the sea its hue." We followed down Gibbons' river, past the Chocolate Pots (cones of many, tiny geysers) bathed our feet in the clear, cool water, and returned to camp. Fire Hole Lake derives its name from the stream of a geyser coming up through the cold water of a mountain pool which, when the sun shines upon it, has the appearance of fire in the water. GEYSERLAND ' After a day spent wandering through leafy dells and sylvan THE ENCHANTED LAND 377 woods, fishing and camera "'shooting,' we again went into camp near Riverside Geyser. The guests danced the happy hours away at Old Faithful Camp. Stella, Hearts Delight, and I sat in the moonlight watching the great geyser spouting its volume of water and steam into the Fire Hole river, while our Knight of the Trail told interesting stories of life with Buffalo Bill on the great plains when our beloved West was in the making. A dip in the warm pools afforded us great pleasure; but, what a difference adornment makes in one's appearance! I could hardly recognize our hero in his bathing suit; his broad shoulders were stooped, his long, handsome hair "hung down over his neck like sea-weed on a clam, and alas! Alak! A bald spot appeared upon his head, but nevertheless, the kindly blue eyes remained the same. Eyes are the windows of the soul; and, to my mind, the soul is the only thing worth while, either here or hereafter. "The Giant! The Giant' is spouting!" the Damsels all shouted at once. Glory, halleluiah! A cloud of white steam floated over the tree tops. We galloped our horses down the road. O! O! O! Can you imagine the indescribable beauty of a marvelous, magnificent, white fountain sparkling like a million jewels in the gorgeous, blazing sunset? Excuse the enthusiasm, but Mr. Barnum could not have described that cascade of irridescent splendor. The Giant plays every eight or ten days and reaches a height two hundred and fifty feet. His companion, the Giantess, is a temperamental actress. We approached her cautiously as one can never tell when this capricious lady will fly into a violent temper, with no warning from her bright and smiling crater. Old Faithful, the tourists' friend, true to his name, was busy on the job, and it behooves him to keep that way, as he pumps up from his underground reservoir thirty-three million gallons of water every day, and has done so for millions of years. Some job! We dropped our "hankeys" into Handkerchief Pool, saw them sink from sight, pass through Nature's own steam laundry, and return to us white as snow. Emerald Pool, beautiful as the jewel for which it is named, a filigree formation that resembles maiden-hair ferns and asparagus clings in festoons to the wall of this lakelet. Only the hand of the Master Artist could fashion anything so exquisitely delicate or so wonderfully beautiful. Morning Glory Spring: here we found Beauty garbed in a garment of sapphire satin, a magnificent transparent morning glory, magnified a thousand times. The Devils Punch Bowl. "Not on your life. While I am not exactly a member of the Sabbath school, I draw the line on Belzeebub, I refuse to taste any refreshments from that distillery," soliloquized the business man. Someone asked the horse wrangler if the hot-prings ever 
 froze over in winter. 'Yes, Ma'am, they do," answered that truthful James. 'One winter a ranger tried to skate on one. The ice broke through and he was badly burned before he could be rescued." "Tell it to the Marines," called our Damsel from Cleveland, "the idea of anyone trying to skate on a hot-spring. Come on." We passed on, in and out through boiling ponds where one misstep would have meant a trip to the hospital. THE GREAT DIVIDE We followed a winding trail through a forest of slender lodge pole pines skirting the dancing river, up Spring Greek Canyon to Kelper Cascades. Two horned owls blinked at us from their perch on a spruce limb; woodpeckers were busily engaged in gathering the winter's food supply, and bushy-tailed squirrels scampered from under the horses' feet. A steady climb brought us to the top of the great Continental Divide where the waters of the lily-covered Isa Lake are so evenly balanced that just the quiver of a falling leaf will start the water flowing either towards the Atlantic (to enrich the eastern states) or toward the Pacific to bring added wealth to our own glorious West. Thus it seemed the waters of these two great oceans are tied together by a lovers knot of blue ribbon, embroidered in white and yellow pond lilies. 'We dismounted. Hearts Delight parked her tired head on her husband's shoulders. Tex removed the ten gallon. Physical Culture and the Attorney found seats on a log, and we all gazed in silence as an ocean of dark pines rolled their green billows before us. Far off on the very verge of the horizon three snow-capped mountains raised their regal heads. These mighty peaks rise over fourteen thousand feet above the sea—the loftiest summits of the Rocky Mountain range. And three hundred feet below, glistening like a shield of gun-metal in the sun, lay lake Yellowstone, the largest body of fresh water west of the Great Lakes. How well I remember riding with Edward Markham on a trip to the higher Sierras. When we reached the top of Mount Lyle, the famous author said his heart overflowed with joy and gratitude. He said God made the mountain for a playground for the children of earth, and removing his hat with great enthusiasm, exclaimed: "On the mountain top I ride, I ride, _ I have found my own, and am satisfied." I was more than that today. I was supremely happy. But alas! There was Belshazzar trying to eat up a Damsel's straw hat. The great Tetons faded into the distance as we began the descent. THE ENCHANTED LAND 379 Marion complained of feeling tired. We left the party and started for camp. On the highway we met the truck driver. "O, Claude, where is our camp?" Marion called to him. Claude did not answer but pointed to the side of the road. We looked, and there lay the five-ton truck upside down in the ditch. I had an attack of shell shock. My reputation went glimmering; the Jinks had us. | "Claude, are you hurt? How did you ever escape? Of all things!" etc. "Struck a rut, I guess," was all he said. Cook dnd her helper came along. She caught a ride with a passing car and went to the Thumb for help. Marion and 1 rested under the trees till Claude and the helper brought the supplies to camp in the Ford. Everything was mixed and muddled; jellies and jams were spilled, dishes were broken, and chaos reigned supreme. We did the best we could to separate our kitchen supplies, but I was so tired, the task proved almost beyond my strength. The party came in early, but Stella did not return. I sought advice from the Philadelphia Lawyer. "The cook is not here. I do not know what to do about preparing the supper." What a wonderful advantage an education is after all. In the judicial voice of a supreme judge, the Attorney answered, 'Show me where the things are, and I will get the supper." The Damsels, not to be out-done by mere man, sang out, "We will get the supper." And like a flock of hungry birds they lit upon the sack of potatoes, opened a case of canned peas, and another of pineapple. EXERCISES BEFORE BREAKFAST AT LAKE CAMP, YELLOWSTONE PARK 
 "Girls, girls," I ventured, "we will not need quite so much food." "O yes, we will." They continued to play havoc with pickles, _ pies and cheese. I wondered where our food for the next few days would come from, when Stella returned in time to save the day. LAKE CAMP At Yellowstone Lake, we camped in a botanical garden. Burbank could not have produced anything more delightful or lovely. The Young Chap caught a string of fine trout which made a pleasant change from our daily menu of ham and bacon. Another blazing camp fire. Class and position were forgotten; a spirit of true brotherly love prevailed. The Damsels danced with the young guides and some visiting rangers, to the music of a mouth-harp played by the cook's helper. MHeart's Delight danced a two-step, with her son, while I enjoyed a waltz with the Attorney. The moon, like a silver crescent, drifted beneath the clouds somewhere beyond the snow-covered Tetons. Night drew her soft purple curtains, and again we said good night. I slept; but only for a little while. A great scratching on my tent brought me to my feet double quick. "Leapin' lizzards! Drat those confounded bears!" I grabbed my tin basin and started to pound out an alarm, but all the sympathy or assistance I could get was a hearty laugh from the whole party—'"A put up job." The Damsels had borrowed some curry combs and had staged "a plant" to add local color to their adventures. You can never tell what young 'folks will do for amusement. They were not to blame; it was the fault of that bewitching night. | Near Lake Camp we saw the mud volcano, a_ scalding cauldron: of mud, one drop of which would have burned like molten lead. A little further on we rested for a while near the Dragon's Mouth, a boiling spring that gushes from the mountainside at intervals of about one to the half second, and makes a noise not unlike the bark of a dog. A flock of white pelicans followed us on our way to Beautiful Hayden Valley, where the flower-covered meadow stretched like a piece of jewelled tapestry before our admiring eyes. A herd of six or eight deer with an elk or two were quietly grazing in green grass that reached to their knees. Black birds, crows, and magpies were gossiping in the tulles. Beaver were busy in the marshes, and all nature seemed to have reached a state of harmonious, tranquil contentment. As we made camp that evening the Business Man said he felt like the young southerner from the hills of Tennessee when he: proposed to the best girl and the young lady accepted him—he THE ENCHANTED LAND 381 went out into the moonlight and said, "O, Lord, I ain't got nothin' agin' nobody." i CANYON CAMP Canyon Camp, cool, restful, and pleasant. Down a rugged pathway where the pines bury their feet in a velvet carpet of green moss. Across Chittenden bridge to Inspiration Point an everchanging panorama passed before us as we view for the 'first time the world famed Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone. An entrancing, mystic maze of collonades, castles, cathedrals, = 5 = _.? 75am, oat, © eh gaat > ea nreneTinre 7 ". 7 r A Aira us. 1 TT Bate Pc BBR - itl. Ge MOG, BORE a. A: 7: oor REE geet si SS PRM CANYON CAMP, YELLOWSTONE PARK domes, spires, and arches, carved and jutted by the erosion of ages, a kaleidoscope of colors that only an expert silk salesmen could describe; from the green of the pines above the canyon walls are shaded lemon, orange, garnet, crimson, black, pearl gray, and glistening white and the whole magnificent landscape covered by the blue canopy of heaven. And over a collossal ledge three hundred feet high, pours the entire volume of the Yellowstone river to be lost in billowy 'white clouds of foam in the canyon below. The memory of that delightful camp I will hold as a priceless treasure while life lasts. How well our poet of the North, Robert Service, expressed his appreciation of scenes like this. "Tt's the great big broad land 'way up yonder, It's the place where the forest holds lease, It's the beauty that thrills me with wonder, It's the stillness that fills me with peace." With joy we hailed the happy morn whose rosy fingers had just flung wide the gates of day. And indeed it was another day of perfect happiness. 
 The canyon was full of white misty chiffon; crimson sunbeams kissed the sprays and turned yards of precious lace into dancing rainbows., Hearts Delight held out her hand; a little gray morning dove, with downy pink breast and delicate gray wings, that was hovering near, lit upon her finger for a moment, picked at her diamond ring, but finding it of no value, flew away into the tree top. Most of the party went on an exploration trip across the river. Physical Culture, Stella, and I remained in camp, and here is where we came very nearly having a casualty. While Physical Culture was fishing in the river, his line became caught beneath some rocks. In trying to untangle it, he fell in. The water was ice cold; he screamed for dear life, could not swim, and would have drowned but for the timely aid of a fat fisherman sitting on a rock below. The fisherman jumped in, caught Physical Culture as he came up for the last time and towed him ashore. He was apparently as dead as anyone could be. We could not find a barrel to roll him on, but the resourceful Stella came running with the bread box. "Here, here; roll him on this!" The fisherman tried first aid. I found some ginger which I thought might make him sneeze. Altogether, we revived him, and he was indeed very grateful. Stella wrapped him in her bathrobe, while I got a blanket for the fisherman who refused it by saying, "Shucks, these clothes will soon dry out.' Physical Culture recovered. "O, I say, my good man, you have done me a favor; I must reward you. What is your name, and where are you from?" The fisherman said his name was Nelson, and he was from southern Utah. "My word, you don't say so? Do you belong to that cult that have a temple in Salt Lake City?" Mr. Nelson admitted he was a "Mormon." "Here, my dear man, take this. If you will not accept it for yourself, give it to your Church." He handed him a check for two hundred dollars. The grateful Nelson thanked him. "By the way, are you a man of a family," The fisherman said his family consisted of his wife, her. Mother, and nine children. "My word, remarkable! Very—dquite a number, is it not?" Mr. Nelson admitted it was, but explained that only seven of the children were his own. Two were adopted. "Well, well, indeed!" Physical Culture recovered from his astonishment. 'Why, my good friend, now I call that a fine thing to do. Indeed it is. Seven of your, own to care for and adopt two more. You have a kind heart. I must not let you outdo me in generosity. Let me do better by you." Physical Culture took the check and wrote another for five hundred instead, shook his benefactor's hand with instructions that he would keep in THE ENCHANTED LAND 383 touch with him, murmured something about further assistance, and went shivering to his tent. The genial Nelson smiled. _ "This will help Ephe and Catherine through the Brigham Young University. And one must accept with the same good grace as they would give if they had it." Mr. Nelson had, without thought of a reward, saved a stranger's life, and now had accepted his gift only to assist his children in getting an education whereby they would become better citizens. And still unmindful' of his dripping clothes, took the ax away from Stella with a — pleasant, "Here Ma'am, let me cut that kindling for you," vigorously attacked the woodpile.., A few days later, we crossed Dunraven Pass, climbed Mount Washburn, stood in the snow and gathered wild flowers to send home to our less-fortunate friends, followed a scenic trail down past Ghost Canyon where Tower Falls fluttered like a ribbon in the wind; passed the silent stumps of what were once the trunks of trees, but now by some freak of nature are solid shafts of stone; wound our way over fallen logs and fern-strewn paths where mighty mountains scarred by age-old torrents towered above our heads. Back to Mammoth Camp and home! FAREWELL My dream had ended; my knight would keep on guiding parties through the Enchanted Land, and I would return to my domestic duties. Two weeks spent in the wildwood; our faces were burned, our bodies tired, yet not one cross word had been spoken; everyone had been most kind and considerate. My companions of the trail and campfire had become very dear to me; they were now going out of my life, perhaps forever. I was loath to leave them. Even the wicked Belshazzar looked at me kindly from the 'corner of his suspicious eyes. But Time with his glass and scythe travels ever on and on. ¥ ' Good-byes were said. Some of the Damsels wept. All kissed Stella. The gentlemen rewarded her with twenty pieces of silver. Hearts Delight came forward with a golden eagle and a sapphire broach. That practical lady could not keep back the tears of gratitude any longer; she entirely lost her head and kissed the Young Chap instead of his lovely mother. But mine was a richer reward by far than anything that could be purchased with earthly pelf. The memory of that wonderful trip through our Paradise of Pleasure would live in my memory forever. And I had seen engraved in the faces. Of my companions, carved on the mountains, mesas, and marshland, embroidered on the meadows and woodland, stamped on the rivers, lakes, and geysers, the autograph of an all-wisé, all-powerful, ° Creator. The Book of Mormon Conference Address by President A. W. Ivins It is always an important period to the Church when the sixth of April approaches—the day upon which the Church in 1830 was organized. Three years hence a century will have passed since that important event occurred. Never before did it appear of greater importance to me than at the present time. Looking over this congregation of women, I think of a meeting that was held in this city a little more than a year ago in which a large number of very wise men who met together found comfort in the fact that the bulwarks of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints were crumbling, that it was evident to them that the time was not far distant when the structure would collapse and when the "Mormon" people, as they are termed, would become Christianized. They complimented the women of the Church by saying that the men no longer believed in Joseph Smith as a © prophet of the Lord, with a direct message to the people of the world, that they did not recognize the present presiding authorities of the Church as being the mouthpieces of the Lord, that the men did not pay tithing at this time, and had it not been for the women and children, they said, the Church would have been bankrupt several years ago, because they alone were tithe-payers, and since it chanced just at that time that the returns from the tithing were greater than ever before in its history, I thought that was a real compliment to the women and children. It appears to be a strange thing that now, after the doctrines of the Church have been before the world for. A century, when the history of the Church and its accomplishments are so well known to all. People, that the attitude shown by these men could possibly be taken. One of two things was evident to me—that it was either the result of inexcusable ignorance or a wilful désire on their part to misrepresent the truth to those who were not familiar with its condition. However that may be, I am not going to undertake to discuss it at length. This afernoon at four o'clock (and we will endeavor if we can to conclude this meeting a few minutes before that time in crder that you may be out on the grounds) a monument will be unveiled just to the east of us here, in commemoration of the publication to the world of the Book of Mormon, and particularly of the three men who saw the plates and bore witness to their truth, stating that an angel from' God had shown the plates to them and that the voice of the Lord had commanded them that they should bear this witness. These men, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer and Martin Harris, will be perpetuated in bronze upon this monument. Our minds naturally revert to the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. We see in it the 'fulfilment of the words of the prophets uttered hundreds of years ago, for THE BOOK OF MORMON 385 they referred to it in detail, giving the manner of its coming forth, its reception by the world. That which the book would be expected to accomplish was told in detail by Isaiah, by Jeremiah, and others of the ancient prophets. So that if such a book has not come forth or if it has and does not contain the fulness of the everlasting gospel, or if it is not the book which was to be written for Ephraim and the people of Israel, his companions— then we must look forward to the coming forth of some other book because the unchanging decree of the Lord was that such a book should come forth, that it should come out of the earth, that it should come at a time when "darkness would cover the earth and gross darkness, the minds of the people," that it shouid be put with the other book to which Ezekiel refers, which is the book of Judah, the Bible, and that part of Israel which should remain with him at the time of the dispersion of the ten tribes would be numbered with the seed of Judah. The Bible and the Book of Mormon (the stick of Judah and the stick of Ephraim) are to become one in the hands of the Lord, for the purpose of convincing all people, Jew and Gentile, atheist, infidel and so-called Christian, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, the Only Begotten of the 'Father in the flesh, that his is the only name under heaven by which mankind can be brought back into the presence of our Father and crowned there with glory, immortality and eternal life. These are some of the reflections that come to us when we think of the Book of Mormon. I would like to read a few paragraphs here from the sia which the Prophet himself tells in his own words, because no one has ever told the story in words which appeal to me as do these that I am about to read. The Prophet had already received his first vision and the work which he was to accomplish had been outlined, but no authority had been given him to act, and he had consequently waited—waited patiently and wondered why some further manifestation did not come that he might better understand what he was to do. He tells us that he was thinking of this, contemplating it seriously, when he retired to his bedroom for the night. There he kneeled in earnest prayer 'to the Lord that some manifestation might be given to him by which he would know that he was still in His favor. And he says: 'While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I discovered a light appearing in my room, which continued to increase until the room was lighter than at noonday, when immediately a personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air, for his feet did not touch the floor. "He 'had on a loose robe of most exquisite whiteness. It was a whiteness beyond anything earthly I had ever seen; nor do I believe that any earthly thing could be made to appear so exceedingly white and brilliant. His hands were naked, and his arms also, a little above the wrist, so, also, were his feet naked, as were his legs, a little above the ankles. His head and neck were also bare. I could discover that he had no other clothing on 
 but this robe, as it was open, so that I could see into his bosom. "Not only was his robe exceedingly white, but his whole person was glorious beyond description, and his countenance truly like lightning. The room was exceedingly light, but not so very bright as immediately around his person. When I first looked upon him, I was afraid; but the fear soon left me. "He called me by name, and said unto me that he was a ' messenger sent from the presence of God to me, and that his name was Moroni; that God had a work for me to do; and that my name should be had for good and evil among all nations, kindreds, and tongues, or that it should be both good and evil spoken of among all people. "THe said there was a book deposited, written upon gold plates, giving an account of the former inhabitants of this continent, and the source from whence they sprang. He also said that the fulness of the everlasting gospel was contained in it, as delivered by the Savior to the ancient inhabitants; '"'Also, that there were two stones in silver bows—and these stones fastened to a breastplate, constituted what is called the Urim and Thummim—deposited with the plates; and the possession and use of these stones were what constituted 'seers' in ancient or former times; and that God had prepared them for the purpose of translating the book." That account has always appealed to me as one of truth. There is nothing of posing, nothing to magnify the individual, just a simple narrative told by an honest young man. It was a very remarkable thing to say of this boy who was almost entirely unknown, scarcely known even to his neighbors, to say that his name would be known throughout all the world, that among some people it would be held in honor, and among others, in reproach, and yet like all other things which the Lord says, it has become a fact. These plates, after several years, were entrusted to Joseph Smith and he continues here as follows: '"'On the 5th day of April, 1829, Oliver Cowdery came to my house, until which time I had never seen him. He stated to me that having been teaching school in the neighborhood where my father resided, and my father being one of those who sent to the school, he went to board for a season at his house, and while there the family related to him the circumstance of my having received the plates, and accordingly he had come to make inquiries of me. Two days after the arrival of Mr. Cowdery (being the 7th of April) I commenced to translate the Book of Mormon, and he began to write for me." (Not much chance for fraud here, because the men were estrangers. ) One of the marvelous things—one of the wonders, is that the following year this book had been translated, prepared for the printer, and was published to the world, A like achievement I feel certain cannot be found in the world. This is a book of more than five hundred pages. It is a book which treats of the past, the present and the future. It is a book in which the history of the THE BOOK OF MORMON 387 past is told, in which the story of the present—the very day in which we live (notwithstanding the fact that it was published a hundred years ago) are outlined. It is a book which deals with the future in such plainness that any person who reads it with a prayerful heart may know the destiny of the world in which we live, and it was all done in a year. It takes time to write books, and particularly books of this kind where the writer makes so many definite declarations of facts. Another one of the marvelous things which was also predicted by one of the ancient prophets, was that it was taken to a learned man who examined a copy of some of the characters and the translation thereof, and he certified that the translation was correct. When he asked to see the original plates, and was told that they could not be shown to him, he asked for the certificate and destroyed it, saying that he could not read a sealed book, thus fulfiling the words of the prophet. The prophet then predicted that it would then be delivered to one who was unlearned, and he would say, "I cannot read it, for I am unlearned." This book was not written in English but in reformed Egyptian characters. Then the Lord said, "Behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work and a wonder among this people, and the wisdom of their wise men shall be hid and the understanding of the prudent confounded," all of which has been fulfilled literally. Now, I cannot take time to tell you all about the Book of Mormon. But this record has been before the world for a hundred years. It has been criticized by the wise men in the world. It has been ridiculed by the ignorant. It is a sufficient testimony of its truth and I am justified in saying that not a single error has ever been pointed out in it. No man can say where it is wrong in any detail, but on the contrary, as the time passes, we hear of many things which corroborate the truth of the things written in it. It has been ridiculed because the prophet declared that these inscriptions were upon plates of gold. Two or three years ago a book was published entitled The Goldsmith's Art Among the Ancient Americans, in which the writer, Saville, than whom there is no greater authority in the country, calls attention to the remarkable and expert workmanship in gold that these Indians did at the time of the Conquest, and that was a thousand years after' this record closed, and when they had degenerated into a less civilized people, and he goes on and on and tells of hundreds and hundreds of articles made of beaten gold, and finally comes to a place where some Catholic father relates that a certain man bought from the Mexican Indians certain plates of beaten gold which were covered with hieroglyphics which they had been able to translate which had been handed down by their forefathers. Just in January of this year, one of our foremost scientists. Who is excavating a great city in Panama just north of the canal— a city which before had not been discovered—where wonderful developments are being made, reports the finding of a chisel 
 made of steel. People have laughed at the Book of Mormon because Nephi said he taught his people to work in iron and steel. I have been waiting fifty years for some one to find in the excavations a little piece of iron or steel. They are among the most _ perishable of all hard metals. Gold does not tarnish—it remains clear and bright. It is one of the softest metals and can be readily written upon; it is one of the most durable and one of the most malleable metals, and can be beaten into sheets thinner than ~ the thinnest tissue paper which we are able to make. Last year, in the opening of one of the great mounds which are in Ohio, they found what the archaeologists call a pearl buriai. What did Joseph Smith know about pearls being used by the Indians when he interpreted the account as it had been written a thousand years before in this book, the fact that the people became rich and that they clothed themselves with all manner of fine apparel, such as costly pearls? I have the reports of this, showing what was found in one of these great burial mounds where the remains of three persons had been interred.; I shall not continue my remarks. This has come to me because of the fact that this monument here, which is a memorial to the bringing forth of the Book of Mormon and the three men who bore witness of its truth, as we have said, is to be unveiled this afternoon. There are wonderful things that could be told to you., Men go around the country telling you that the Church is crumbling, that you are becoming Christianized. Do not be deceived by the sophistry of these men who pretend to be representatives of Christ, our Lord, but speak without authority and without truth. They will flatter you and compliment you. They are opposed to the truth, and no influence that the mind can conceive of will be overlooked in an effort to draw people away from the Church, to introduce the customs of the world, and some of these customs have come among us, we very greatly regret. There never has been a time when people have not withdrawn from the Church, but they are fewer. Today than they have been at any other period in its history, so far as we are able to determine. Reports of the growth of the Church are extremely ~ gratifying and so there is nothing to justify the statements that these men have used in an endeavor to bring about the destruction of the Church, and their efforts are not, as they say, about to be crowned with success. They will not be, for the Lord, our God, has said that the gospel has been established for the last time—the time when the Lord will bring together all things — in one, and consummate his work, when the people will be prepared for the coming of Christ, our Lord, and will reign in power and majesty upon the earth, and that time is very near of realization. I do not know what the Church would do without these good women to help to keep the men in proper training and order and faith, as they do. God bless you, is my prayer. Amen.