H.—I have a party of tourists ready to go on a horse-back trip, and find our number is thirteen. Now, as one of the guests is a superstitious southerner, I will appreciate the favor if you will join us. Your position will be that of hoo-doo dispeller. Come on—you will enjoy the trip. George Mauger, Manager. Joy of joys! A chance to see Yellowstone Park on horseback! ' "When do we start? What is your name? And is that my horse?" I gasped all in one breath and pointed to the extra animal he was leading. "We start at once. My name is Tex Holmes, and you will ride this horse." He jerked the bridle of the restless animal. "Please hurry." Good night! I guess I did. Chain lightning didn't have anything on me. Tex Holmes—famous old scout of the early days, friend of Buffalo Bill, guide plenipotentiary to Theodore Roosevelt and his grace of Dunraven. Maybe you don't think I stepped lively. I borrowed the school ma'am's trousers, (she was not at home, but I couldn't help that} grabbed the engineer's shirt and hat, when he wasn't looking, put some toilet articles in a hand-bag and, resplendent in my borrowed finery, mounted the prancing Belshazzar and rode away. My sway-backed steed, evidently did not like me, for several times, the obstinate creature tried to buck me off. Finally he became subdued, and in the wink of an eye, we joined the guests 'at Mammoth Camp. - Everything was just as pictured in my dreams. The Prince Charming was there, disguised as a New York business man. His lovely wife, the princess Hearts Delight,. Could not disguise herself; anyone would know, at a glance, she was a blue-stocking. She was accompanied by her son, the Young Chap, eight Dandy Damsels, the Physical Culture Man, and the Philadelphia Lawyer. The junks being dispelled, our picturesque Knight of the Embroidered Vest in the lead, we set out to explore our National Park via the Howard Eaton trail. The baggage and supplies were sent on ahead by truck, while the cook and her official helper traveled in their own private Ford. THE TERRACES We rode up the hill to great Jupiter Terrace,, a mountain of perhaps