[Vol53 | November | Magazine Page 817 | PDF Page 858]

--- PAGE 817 (PDF page 858) ---
REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Church. One hundred ninety thousand women hold leadership positions. Growth of the society in size and accomplishment is encouraging. Adherence to General Board regulations, high standards of performance, devoted service are the general characteristics of Relief Societies throughout the Church.

As General Board members have traveled to stake quarterly conferences, opportunity has been afforded them, in some instances, to meet with mission Relief Society leaders. Achievements in the missions are heartening, according to reports.

MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE

Church-wide Relief Society membership at the close of 1965 was 286,820 — an increase of 12,000 over 1964. Average attendance at the regular Relief Society meetings was 108,195 — an increase over the previous year of more than 4,500 women. Reports indicate there are 6,662 stake, mission, district, ward, and branch Relief Society organizations located in 53 countries throughout the world. This is an increase of 131 organizations.

RELIEF SOCIETY PROGRAM

The program of Relief Society which is affecting the lives of nearly 300,000 women is directed toward helping women to gain an understanding of the doctrines and principles of the gospel and to develop testimonies sufficiently strong so as to bring their daily conduct into harmony with Church teachings. The program aims to awaken Relief Society members to their responsibilities in caring for the sick, the aged, the homebound, and in ministering, as needed, to the bereaved,

the downtrodden, and disconsolate. It provides opportunity for women to develop their talents and enlarge upon their native endowment, and helps them to realize their full potential as women. It holds ever before them their divine mission as wives, mothers, and homemakers. Such a comprehensive program should enlist the active participation in Relief Society of every Latter-day Saint woman. None should feel justified in not holding membership in Relief Society regardless of what other responsibilities she may carry in the Church.

COMPASSIONATE AND CHURCH WELFARE SERVICES

The spirit of the gospel is a spirit of selfless service, and this is exemplified in the compassionate service reports bear record that Relief Society sisters gave over 29,000 eight-hour days bedside nursing care to the sick during 1965. There were approximately 400,000 visits to the sick and homebound, and approximately 700,000 hours of other types of compassionate service. Over 800 bodies were dressed for burial, and assistance was given at more than 10,000 funerals.

In reference to the care of the sick, it seems appropriate to remind you that as the life span is lengthened, disabling, but not necessarily terminal diseases, often attack older people. They seem to become prime targets for such cripplers as stroke, heart disease, cancer, emphysema, and arthritis. Many of them become accident prone and are victims of broken hips and other broken bones. Accidents, particularly highway accidents,

817