[Vol53 | June | Magazine Page 7 | PDF Page 28]

--- PAGE 7 (PDF page 28) ---
WHEAT FOR THE WISE

mourn: for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth. . . ."

Jennie held the electric mixer silent in her hand. She looked at Sabra, and slow waves of pain went through her as the words, beloved and cherished of Sabra, fell from her lips and seemed to linger in the dusk. Sabra knew the Beatitudes to the end.

"Where did you learn them?" Jenny asked stiffly.

"Over at Jean's."

"Did they make you learn them?" She kept impatience from her voice with an effort.

"No." Sabra was trying a back bend now. "Jean's church gives them cards with pictures of martyrs and the what did you call them? Beatitudes?"

"What made you memorize them?" Jennie asked slowly.

"I wanted to," Sabra said. "Jean has a big picture of Jesus over her bed, and she told me he was the holiest one who ever lived. Is that true?" She stopped in the act of another back bend. "What is holy?"

Jennie bit her lip. "Someone who is very good."

"Blessed are the pure in heart," repeated Sabra carefully, "for they shall see God." She smiled at Jennie happily, "That's the best one. That's the one I'm going to keep." Sabra went out of the room, and to Jennie it seemed the child drew with her all the softness and light of the fallen day.

Jennie flipped the switch. The kitchen was immediately bright and glittering with chrome and copper. She browned pork chops and made sauce and rice and emptied frozen vegetables into steaming water.

Her mind was filled with memory and with apprehension—memory of that radiant moment when Sabra was first placed in her arms—apprehension and worry over Sabra's future. Even in the beginning a sacred ordinance had been denied. Sabra had not received her name in fast meeting before the saints assembled. She had been denied a father's blessing. Her early years had not been lighted by the gospel.

The kitchen still seemed hollow with Sabra's going. Jennie chopped lettuce . . . "Blessed are the poor in spirit . . . for theirs is the kingdom of heaven."

She looked quickly in the corner, she felt guilty, as if her father might be standing there. But then she saw it was because his chair was against the desk, the chair that she had chosen when they were dividing his things, because he had used it so often. So now she could feel him sitting there still, with his Book of Mormon and his Doctrine and Covenants . . . and his far-off look, like Sabra's, that look of inward seeing. How the two of them would have got along . . . like a house afire.

Jennie felt ill. How her father would have looked at her . . . a grandchild of his having to go to a neighbor's house to learn the Beatitudes.

Jennie peeled the tomatoes. Her father, though, was so strict. He had thought there was a penalty for not teaching children. He had taught her . . . oh, so carefully, but in the end she had married outside the Church. But she had loved Rex. When she saw him she knew there could

27