[Vol53 | January | Magazine Page 14 | PDF Page 15]

--- PAGE 14 (PDF page 15) ---
Third Prize Poem

PRELUDE OF PROMISE

Pearle M. Olsen

Forming        The boundless ocean groaned! Its heaving strength
               Moved restlessly with bidding will of moon
               And wind, in ever-changing tidal length!
               Waves whipped in furious widening typhoon
               While roots of future islands, being born
               In darkest layers rupturing earth's core
               Spewed high again! Only the ocean, torn
               And timeless, knew the forming on its floor!
               Relentless effort, claiming right to be—
               With inch by painful inch of straining birth;
               Volcanic base, fringed coral filigree—
               A subterranean chain of writhing earth!
               The child of violence, risen from the deep—
               Mature and willing, luring nature's leap!

Adorning       The youthful surfaces of earth's marred shell—
               Nude islands, raw and waiting, empty-armed,
               Were swept by winds without a parallel
               And pounded by the force of rain's alarm!
               Their milling acts, on lava newly born,
               Made fertile soil for growth of migrant seed
               Let fall by halting bird, long weather-worn,
               Into a niche where sprouting could proceed.
               A few insects, wind-borne from distant land,
               With fragmentary green, wilting from strife—
               Found ways to give sweet growth to bare, unscanned
               And pregnant soil's potential—beauteous life!
               While poised on far-off shores, hoping to span
               The ocean, strained the earth's exploring man!

* * * *

Delighting      We traveled into other lands where strange
               Unheeding eyes were set in alien clay.
               We sought for words within a bounded range
               Of verbal comprehension—to convey
               A strengthened lexicon in daily fare.
               We felt endearing warmth in cultures' ring;
               Considered remnant nations melting where
               East met West, in nature's subtle blending.
               We found within the cauldron those who knew
               The plan of life we cherished in our hearts.
               We loved and understood, as children do,
               The others whom a mother's womb imparts.
               Our love identified to kind—beyond
               The barriers of speech, in spirit bond!

14