[Vol53 | June | Magazine Page 53 | PDF Page 74]

--- PAGE 53 (PDF page 74) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

as special help for beginning researchers. Very useful among these brochures and printed books are: Genealogical Research - A Practical Mission, by HOWARD S. BENNION, The Deseret Sunday School Union. This book contains names of individuals who are specialists in research in different countries who have authored books on genealogy; Saviors on Mount Zion, by ARCHIBALD F. BENNETT. These books may be found in ward libraries.

4. Become familiar, through your ward high priest group leader, with the Pedigree Referral Service of the Genealogical Society.

5. Add to the suggestions for individual home activity this: Thank your Heavenly Father that you were permitted to come to earth in the dispensation of the fullness of time, with the privilege of being a savior on Mount Zion.

LITERATURE—The Individual and Human Values
As Seen Through Literature

Elder Robert K. Thomas

Lesson 14—Facing Death—Part I
(Text: "Out of the Best Books" pp. 420-39, 445-47, 473-82.)
For Fourth Meeting, April 1966.
In the Southern Hemisphere, July 1966

Objective: To consider death, viewed with relationship
          to different life situations.

INTRODUCTION
In this month's lesson we shall discuss two short stories and two poems. Each is concerned with a particular situation in which death must be faced. The first selection for study is "The Sick Child," by the French writer, Colette.

"The Sick Child," by Colette
When, at the conclusion of "The Sick Child," the author suggests that recovery from illness is not without its loss, we are tempted to brush aside this comment in relief and gratitude for the young life saved. What if the night has "lost its magic" and has become "meek and disenchanted"? The dreams of the child are only fever-induced fantasy, happily forgotten in health. Yet to discount this final point is to miss a significant part of a beautifully written story.

The plot of "The Sick Child" could hardly be simpler. A small boy, Jean, afflicted with infantile paralysis and expected to die, rallies to survive a crisis and begin his recovery. To reduce the story to this is to make clear how little it depends upon plot. Characterization is equally simple; "Lady Mother" is appropriately maternal, the nurse Mandore is bluffly affectionate. Even the precocious child is just that. What then accounts for the universal appeal of the story?

To begin with, the theme of childhood sickness provides a

73