[Vol53 | April | Magazine Page 307 | PDF Page 320]

--- PAGE 307 (PDF page 320) ---
A Proper Perspective

Through

The Relief Society Magazine

Arlene Bascom

[PHOTOGRAPH]

It was one of those bleak, despairing kind of days. Everything had gone wrong. I was disappointed in myself and in my own feeling of inadequacy. I knelt and prayed for strength to meet the burdens of the day. I rose from my knees comforted, and with renewed determination to meet the problems, not as burdens but as challenges.

Then the mail arrived, and with it The Relief Society Magazine. I knew it had come at a perfect time. I had found inspiration in its pages many times before. I began to read eagerly, and the inspiration and guidance I needed were there in abundance.

One sentence from a soul-revealing story leaped out at me: "Everyone has problems, at any age, but there are compensations and blessings, if you just take time to think of them." Of course! There are compensations and blessings, I echoed joyously, and I will take the time to remember them.

I said a silent prayer of gratefulness for the timely arrival of this help in regaining a proper perspective. My world was right again. I was sure I could meet the challenges of each new day more confidently. After all, didn't I have the Lord on my side, and the blessings of the Relief Society Magazine in my home?

I am convinced that there is no other organization in the world that can compare with the Relief Society, and no other magazine in the world as valuable as The Relief Society Magazine.

Full Circle

Betty G. Spencer

She slept—held gently in the protective circle of my arm. As I gazed lovingly upon the beauty of sleep and countenance of my year-old daughter, I wished that it might always be thus—my arms a shield against the uncertainties of life. But this cannot be. Soon, my arms must yield her to the challenge of life.

There is respite, however; these next few precious years are mine—to teach, to guide, to train. May I use them well. Let me teach wisely, that she may be prepared to meet the future bravely, and alone—my arms reluctantly withdrawn. But, if I have taught the lessons wisely and she has learned them well, she will yet be shielded—with truth, and strength, and right. The circle of my arms will be replaced with a stronger, surer one, a circle of protective principles.

307