[Vol53 | June | Magazine Page 55 | PDF Page 76]

--- PAGE 55 (PDF page 76) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

is a very old one; death the trast between regal life and com-
leveller. It is probably appropri- mon death. Yet Daudet manages
ate that the selection we have to be tender where most writers
chosen to illustrate this is French, in this vein are merely grim. The
for this idea has been especially imperious, insensitive Prince is,
prevalent in France. As early as at last, only a crying child seek-
the Thirteenth Century there ing the comfort that nothing
were examples of what came to earthly can give.
be known as the danse macabre
or dance of the dead. While there "Tithonus" by Alfred Lord Tennyson
were varied representations of The final selections for the
this theme, they shared the basic month examine special problems
idea that death is always lurking in relation to death. Tennyson's
in the midst of life. Possibly re- "Tithonus" chronicles the despair
flecting the New Testament par- of one who cannot die, one who
able of the rich man who finally in the words of Job "longs for
decided to enjoy the goods he death, but it cometh not."
had acquired, only to be told by
the Lord that he was to die that The poem tells the story of Ti-
very night (Luke 12:16-21), this thonus, son of the king of Troy, who
concept served not only to re- was married to Aurora, goddess of
emphasize the vanity of earthly the dawn. Tithonus was a mortal
wishes; it also became a constant being, subject to ageing and death,
reminder that only death could and Aurora was immortal, beyond
put life into proper perspective. the effects of either ageing or death.
"The Death of the Dauphin" At the request of Aurora, the gods
is really just a modern adapta- granted Tithonus eternal life, but
tion of this ancient theme. It she neglected to request eternal youth
even retains the pictorial quality for him. Therefore, as the years came
of early danse macabre pre- and went, he grew forever older, for-
sentations. Note how the char- ever more feeble, but could not die.
acters in this little story are In lamentation for his plight, Tith-
grouped. We hardly need dialogue onus in the poem cries out, "Me only
as we go from scene to scene— cruel immortality consumes; I wither
weeping maids of honor bowing slowly in thine arms . . . immortal
on the stairs, robed doctors dis- age beside immortal youth." Later he
puting just outside the sick pleads, "Let me go; take back thy
room, the child's tutors at the gift." He would die, but cannot. Final-
door, the king in stoic isolation ly, according to the old legend, but
—all are focused on the bed in beyond the limits of Tennyson's
which the young Dauphin lies. poem, Tithonus grew so withered and
The pomp of this picture is an ugly that Aurora turned him into a
ironic contrast to the pale child grasshopper (Text, pages 476-477).
on the white pillow.

Daudet's style is appropriate For members of the Church,
to his tale. If much of what is Tennyson's poem may have un-
presented is sketched in with usual meaning—particularly in
vivid, contrasting strokes, the the light of the beautiful sermon
matter-of-fact reporting of what on "restoration" in Chapters 40
is happening heightens the con- and 41 of Alma in The Book of
 Mormon. We speak so easily of
 death as a release—and surely
 it frees us from the pains that
 flesh is heir to—but the choices
 we have made, rise with us in an

75