[Vol53 | July | Magazine Page 544 | PDF Page 569]

--- PAGE 544 (PDF page 569) ---
JULY 1966

couragement of his parents he had from infancy steadily pursued the steps of learning. As we seek to help our children follow his example, we might ask, "How did he acquire knowledge?"

Learning is a process, a long process of development. It did not begin for Joseph on that clear day in 1820. Years before, by gentle but firm teaching, his parents had brought him to love the scriptures and to search out the meaning of the words of God.

The first step in attaining knowledge is a love for learning—the cultivation of the burning desire to know—with which children begin. The second step is to acquire the tools of learning, some of which are reading, writing, and prayer. The third is to learn to study—to seek out for oneself. All this takes years. All this takes patience, forbearance, gentleness, love and, sometimes, failure, but always with the will to go on.

When one is facing conflicting opinions, as Joseph did, what does one do? He should turn to the source of light, to God in prayer. In a shaft of light God answered Joseph. For us it is more commonly through an urging of the mind and spirit, burning within, the imperceptible opening of new doors in the mind, or the conviction that comes to one through the still, small voice.

Let us make the consistent, patient, long-suffering effort to teach our children from birth to seek, to search, to ask, to pray, and to study. We must help them to know the best books such as the one from which the Prophet Joseph Smith drew his inspiration. Then, as God commanded us, we will bring up our children in light and truth.

HOMEMAKING — Development Through Homemaking Education

Hazel S. Cannon

PUT SPARKLE IN YOUR MEALS

Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1966
Southern Hemisphere: March 1967

Objective: To show how the homemaker can plan, prepare, and serve nutritious and appetizing family meals.

INTRODUCTION

John Ruskin, the English author writes:

Cooking means the knowledge of all herbs and fruits . . . and spices . . . it means carefulness, and inventiveness, and watchfulness, and willingness, and readiness of appliance; it means the economy of your great grandmothers, and the science of modern chemists; it means . . . tasting and no wasting; it means English thoroughness, and French art, and Arabian hospitality. . . .

544