[Vol53 | April | Magazine Page 293 | PDF Page 306]

--- PAGE 293 (PDF page 306) ---
I Love Patches
Joan N. Ahlman

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a young boy in patched clothing sitting and reading]

■ Whenever I see a regular little fellow with large loving patches on the knees of his jeans, a warm feeling comes over me toward him and his mother. These patches say that he is a completely normal, lively, active youngster—we wouldn't want childhood any other way—and that his mother cares about the clothes he wears.

In the Patch Parade, mothers can be classified in one of three categories:

A. The Hasty-Waster, who can't be bothered with patching when even a small hole appears, discards the article which might still have months of wear if only it were patched, and buys a new garment. Her children may always look as if they just stepped out of a bandbox, but what a waste!

B. The Holier-than-thou-er, who constantly detects holes and worn spots, won't take that step to stitch, but endlessly lets her children go mendlessly about with that more-than-casual look. No doubt about it, she saves money, but what about thrift within the right kind of pride?

C. The Stitch-in-Timer, who, as she sews, reaps the satisfaction that her children look neat and well-cared for, even though there may be a patch here or a mend there. She exhibits pride, and by her thrift, she has saved pennies that soon add up to dollars, which can be put aside for education, missions, etc. How wonderful it would be if every mother could be in this "C" class.

Unlike the "Wonderful One Hoss Shay," clothes do have points of strain that become worn, even though the rest of the garment is still in good condition, so it is wisdom to patch these spots.

It may seem to some that patching is a colorless, uncreative task, but by classifying herself as a "fabric physician," a homemaker can have the satisfaction of adding days, weeks, or months to the life of an ill piece of clothing.

As I continue to ponder over patches, I believe if more women became patch-conscious, there would be a definite lift in the quality of home and community life. If a woman is conscientious about patching toggery, this habit will soon extend to mending linens, furniture, meals, and all things about the home, leading to more frugal living.

I also love the "patch system" our Heavenly Father has provided for us. Our lives, compared to a garment, cannot be like the clothing that the wasteful homemaker casts aside when a small hole appears. We have only one mortal life to live, and free agency enables us to choose whether or not we wear a life that is torn and unmended, or accept the philosophy of patching to renew our lives. Through the atonement of Jesus Christ, we may patch up what may have once been a spiritually tattered life, by sincere repentance. Like the expert invisible weaver who can make a torn garment look new again, we, through repentance, can do the same for our lives, because the Lord has said, "Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more" (D&C 58:42).

I hope you, too, will be able to join me in saying "I Love Patches."

293