[Vol53 | November | Magazine Page 819 | PDF Page 860]

--- PAGE 819 (PDF page 860) ---
REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

HOMEMAKING PROGRAM

The homemaking program is one of Relief Society's attractive programs with the homemaking meeting continuing as the second best attended meeting. Last year there were 1,300,000 articles completed during this meeting. Of this number, nearly 800,000 were sewed articles with 175,000 being wearing apparel for men, women, and children. This is an excellent record of practical accomplishment.

We caution you to hold the homemaking discussion within the recommended time. The homemaking meeting must allow time for the women to actively engage in learning homemaking skills and to see demonstrations of homemaking activities. It is also felt that effort must be made to preserve the informal social atmosphere of the day.

Relative to the homemaking program, we call to your attention the following statement from the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions, page 97:

The service of a professional person from outside the Society is sometimes enlisted by Relief Society officers in furthering certain aspects of the work meeting program. Professional help is valuable in training the women in some special homemaking activities; however, such professional persons should not independently plan the . . . meeting activities nor should they use the meeting to promote their own homemaking programs in substitution for programs planned by Relief Society officers assigned this responsibility.

Professional persons from outside the organization who assist in the homemaking program should not be authorized to call meetings in the name of the Society nor to initiate or conduct

projects or programs involving Relief Society. Such matters are the jurisdiction of the Relief Society president. Relief Society is so organized that authoritative procedures must be respected. Responsibility for safeguarding the time, talent, and energies of Relief Society members, as such, rests with the Relief Society president and should not be relinquished to others regardless of their competency or professional standing.

RELIEF SOCIETY PUBLICATIONS

1. Relief Society Magazine
The Relief Society Magazine (English edition) which, at the end of 1965, had a paid circulation of 241,276—an increase of 9,345—is an important asset to our educational program, making available to the general membership the basic lesson material, thus promoting involvement of the members in class discussions. This, of course, is only one of the many educational values of the publication.

2. Magazine in Spanish
We are delighted with the response of the Spanish-speaking sisters to the Magazine in the Spanish language. We are advised that the Spanish-speaking group of sisters is second in number to the English-speaking group. The first edition of the Spanish Magazine came from the press in June of this year.

3. Magazine Honor Roll
A change is being made in the annual Magazine subscription report which is to be submitted at the end of the year. This year (1966) stake Magazine representatives will not be required to submit a report of the number of members enrolled and the num-

819