[Vol53 | January | Magazine Page 20 | PDF Page 21]

--- PAGE 20 (PDF page 21) ---
JANUARY 1966

He held her close, yet not uncomfortably so. Her steps blended magically with his, and they were no longer strangers.

How quickly the evening passed, and, as they walked back to her billet, through streets black and lampless, Mac asked if he could see her again the next day.

"Do you really want to see me—or is it because you feel you ought to carry this 'blind date' role to the end?" Barbara quickly touched his hand. "I'm sorry. I shouldn't have said that, please forgive me."

"Now look here, sergeant, if I didn't want to see you again I wouldn't ask for a date!" He threw her a puckish grin. "After all, I've always wanted to get on good terms with a sergeant. I couldn't pass up such an opportunity. And, incidentally, how come a half-pint like you ever made sergeant?"

Barbara laughed merrily, "I'm asked that question dozens of times a week! My answer is always the same — I sat on the colonel's knee!"

He ducked as if from an imaginary blow. "Ouch, I deserved that!"

They climbed the steps of the residence. He held her hand in his, seeing her face dim in the darkness. "Goodnight, little sergeant, I'll see you tomorrow at twelve noon, Trafalgar Square."

That night Monica and Barbara talked for hours, and Barbara fell asleep with the memory of Mac's gentle arm around her as they danced.

Monica and Cam had made different plans. They were to see the changing of the guard at

Buckingham Palace. Barbara explained her arrangements with Mac. "Oh, Monica, how are we going to get together? I forgot to ask about your arrangements!"

Monica airily waved her hand. "Think nothing of it. . . . I gain the distinct impression that Corporal McKinley wants to be alone with his sergeant." She smiled slyly.

Once again Barbara experienced a surge of excitement as she walked towards Trafalgar Square and her second meeting with Mac. Would he be there . . . would he change his mind? There were so many diversions for the American soldiers in London. . . . Would he feel it was worth his while to keep the appointment? Her heart leapt as she saw him standing there, watching the strutting pigeons. He hurried to meet her with a broad smile of welcome on his boyish face.

"Gosh, I was getting anxious!" Gently, he squeezed her arm. "Is there any special place you'd like to go, or shall we take the day as it comes?" He smiled questioningly.

"No special place," Barbara quickly added, "but what about you? You're an American, and perhaps I ought to show you the sights."

They turned into Piccadilly. "Honey," Mac replied, "I've seen all the sights, honest! What about lunch and an afternoon dance somewhere . . . and then the theatre . . . O.K.?"

"Mac, you'll never get tickets for the theatre unless you book months ahead!" She shook her head at his naiveté.

"Ah-ha. . . . abracadabra and

20