[Vol53 | January | Magazine Page 65 | PDF Page 66]

--- PAGE 65 (PDF page 66) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

suggested that he select one simple gift which he definitely possessed. This was a special ability to be friendly. He was encouraged to appreciate and to exercise faith in this one gift, and then earnestly work to magnify it. In so doing, he soon found he had other gifts which had been lying dormant. By concentrating on each gift and seeking to magnify it, he succeeded in raising all of his talents and abilities to a higher level of performance.

Someone has observed that when we develop one trait fully, there is a tendency for that trait to pull all the others up to its stature. President Joseph F. Smith has said, "Every son and

every daughter of God has received some talent [or gift], and each will be held to strict account for the use or misuse to which it is put" (Juvenile Instructor, Vol. 38, 1903, page 689).

The Lord has many gifts for each of us if we have the faith, courage, will power, and fortitude to work for them. The Lord can and wants to give them to us, but they can become ours only if we accept and use them. "For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift? Behold, he rejoices not in that which is given unto him, neither rejoices in him who is the giver of the gift."

WORK MEETING — Development Through 
Homemaking Education

Hazel S. Cannon

Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness (A Continuation)
For Second Meeting, April 1966
In the Southern Hemisphere, for September 1966

Objective: To show how scheduling of cleaning activities in the home can result in efficient accomplishment of work and in great family happiness.

INTRODUCTION

You will recall that in Lewis Carroll's delightful story, Alice in Wonderland, Alice and the queen had been "running like mad all day." Suddenly Alice discovered that they were still under the same tree from which they had started, and expressed her surprise and consternation to the queen. The queen explained that in her country to "get any place" it was necessary to run "twice as fast."

With our cleaning tasks in mind, as creative homemakers, we need to analyze our management practices in order that we

65