[Vol53 | August | Magazine Page 582 | PDF Page 611]

--- PAGE 582 (PDF page 611) ---
Notes to the Field

[ILLUSTRATION: Woman writing at desk]

The Relief Society Annual General Conference

The Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 28 and 29, 1966. The general session will be held on Wednesday, September 28, from 2 to 4 p.m. in the Tabernacle on Temple Square. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards this general session of conference to which the general public is invited.

Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, September 28, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning, and the Stake Board Meeting Thursday afternoon, September 29, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, September 28, from 7 to 10 p.m. in the Relief Society Building.

BACK TO THE HOUSE

Christie Lund Coles

You went back to the house, you say?

In its rough unpaintedness now,
Could you envision what it once was,
What it still is, remembering-wise,
(Remembering as only the heart does)?

Did you think of my young feet climbing
The crab apple tree by the door?
See me picking lilacs by the gate?
(Do their bright plumes bloom there anymore?)

Did you see the colored windows in the wall,
Where the world took on a rainbow hue
For me and my young imaginings,
(Imagining as only children do)?

Oh, I would have gone backward with you,
As the mind goes to the walk, to the street,
To the swing, and the picket fence
Where reality and memory meet.

Yes, I would go backward to the bee humming,
And the orchard's fragrant beauty.
I would forget the city's tedious rush,
And the day's unending duty.

I would go backward, with hands seeking,
With feet uncovered and young, running
Back to the river and to the hills,
And the house beneath the sky's sunning.

582