[Vol53 | November | Magazine Page 865 | PDF Page 906]

--- PAGE 865 (PDF page 906) ---
second meeting, we will "fly to the relief of the stranger . . . pour oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed . . . dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice" (DHC, Vol. IV, p. 567).

If we walk uprightly, we shall learn how to love, how to be patient, gentle, kind, forbearing, and forgiving, understanding that all thing shall work together for our good.

HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education

Celestia J. Taylor

Family Budgeting From Early Marriage to Retirement

Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1967
Southern Hemisphere: July 1967

Objective: To show that wise financial planning is helpful in all circumstances for all age groups.

NOTE: The material and principles in this discussion may need to be adapted to the culture and way of life in different areas of the world without, however, in any way changing the objective of the discussion.

INTRODUCTION

In the life cycle of a family, each stage of development has a direct influence on all succeeding stages as they appear. Probably the most important of these is the first one—that established by two young parents who, as "Young Marrieds," begin this important life cycle. The final stage, retirement, depends for its success almost entirely upon the long-range plans made by these young partners. Especially is this true in regard to their financial planning, with which this discussion is concerned.

YOUNG MARRIEDS

In the early years of living together, the young marriage partners must make adjustments and plans which will determine the future—indeed, the entire structure of the family which they hope to establish. This is not easy, for seldom do the bride and groom come from backgrounds which are identical in nature from whatever perspective they might be viewed. But the differences can actually be sources of strength if they are brought into a proper balance by careful planning and mutual cooperation.

TO DISCUSS

Case Study A: Tom and Margaret are beginning their married life. Their financial prospects are good, Tom having a position with possibilities of future advancement in a well-established firm. In planning where to live, they decide in favor of a modest apartment which they furnish economically, but tastefully, with just those things which are necessary for their immediate needs. Together, they work out a plan which will enable them to realize

865