[Vol53 | January | Magazine Page 16 | PDF Page 17]

--- PAGE 16 (PDF page 17) ---
■ The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1965.

The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Evelyn Elizabeth Vesterfelt, Sudbury, Ontario, Canada, for her story "For Barbara, With Love." The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Venda Brown Castleberry, Rigby, Idaho, for her story "A Time to Every Purpose." The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Lael J. Littke, Monterey Park, California, for her story "The Search for Katie."

The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit.

award winners | ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY SHORT STORY CONTEST

The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1966.

Forty-nine stories were entered in the 1965 contest, including submissions from Wales, England, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, and Alaska. Mrs. Vesterfelt is a first-time winner in the short story contest, and the General Board of Relief Society is pleased to see a Canadian sister among the winners. Mrs. Castleberry received the first prize in last year's contest, and Mrs. Littke placed second last year.

The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing.

Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received a first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

Gratitude is extended to the members of the General Board who served on the short story committee, and to the judges who evaluated the stories and selected the winning entries.

16