[Vol53 | April | Magazine Page 295 | PDF Page 308]

--- PAGE 295 (PDF page 308) ---
Hill of Daffodils

Sylvia Probst Young

[ILLUSTRATION: Yellow daffodils with black stems and leaves]

■ Spring was usually late in coming to our valley, but, finally, when the last fringes of snow were gone and a warm wind stirred the leafing willows, we knew that winter was done and the wonderful waking season had returned.

On such a sun-bright day, when Saturday's chores were finished, we would trip off to the low hill next to our meadow, and there, the wild daffodils—a host of them—with delicate, yellow heads swaying gently, stood waiting to greet us.

It was a moment of breathtaking ecstasy, standing on the brow of the hill, overlooking a sea of flower golden loveliness. How eagerly we picked our aprons full of the bright blossoms to bring back to our mothers.

The daffodils were a symbol of earth's beauty, of the beauty of all returning things—an April brook, a flowering dogwood, a winging blackbird.

Remembering that childhood experience, I have tried to be aware of beauty everywhere, not only in the wonders of nature, but in the lives of people I meet everyday.

I see the dedication of a young doctor who spends hours of his time, without monetary compensation, bringing comfort and happiness to the old, forgotten people in a nearby institution; the patience of a gentle teacher working with handicapped children; the selflessness of a widowed mother who works extra hours so that her children may gain an education. And I see all the courageous ones who face the storms of adversity and loneliness and go on uncomplainingly forward.

The old man who brings eggs to me counts them with gnarled, rough hands, but his are the hands of an honest, good man, and in them I see the beauty of strength. Through the deep, dark eyes of a teenage girl—eyes bright as stars, lighted with anticipation—I see the world in rainbow colors.

Then there are times, in the quietness of a chapel, when I have listened to the voice of an aged prophet, and his gentle face, his words of wisdom lift my spirit. He is a portrait of peace, and his shining countenance reflects a life of devotion to a cause greater than himself. Looking to him I find a spiritual beauty that fills my soul.

So all around me, everywhere, I can find beauty if I am aware of it—by dawn and starlight, with each day, each changing season. And for all who are thus aware, life cannot be made commonplace, for they will walk with joy and sing on a hill of daffodils.

295