[Vol53 | November | Magazine Page 818 | PDF Page 859]

--- PAGE 818 (PDF page 859) ---
NOVEMBER 1966

add to the list of the chronically disabled. Nursing care for such people is posing one of the serious health-care problems of our day. While hospitals provide primary care, long days of caring for the patient in the home setting must usually be faced. Families are often strained to the breaking point. In view of this, it seems appropriate to suggest that classes in home nursing be conducted by Relief Societies where such programs are feasible and where home nursing courses are available.

We also urge Relief Society presidents to become knowledgeable regarding available nurse training programs for both practical and registered nurses. Our own Brigham Young University offers a four-year baccalaureate course and a two-year associate degree course. Where you know of a woman with nursing aptitude who may be in a position to avail herself of nurse training, encourage her to do so.

Relief Society sisters continue their services to the Church Welfare program, as directed by their respective bishops. There were 110,000 family visits made during 1965 with 87,000 other contacts with families receiving assistance. There were 55,000 Relief Society members who assisted on Welfare projects and approximately 750,000 hours were contributed by women to these projects.

COURSES OF STUDY

Courses of study taught by 24,000 class leaders deal with subjects that truly tend toward the elevation and advancement of women, and direct their thinking, mold their attitudes, and influence their actions along Church-approved lines. In harmony with the correlation program, the lessons for the coming year are being prepared so they may be presented in such a way that every sister at Relief Society will become involved in the discussions.

The titles of the courses beginning in October 1966, reflect the concept of involvement. Theology is now designated Spiritual Living; Work meeting—Homemaking; Social Science — Social Relations; Literature, which will include some music and art, has taken on a new depth and will become Cultural Refinement. The General Board feels that there is being offered to Relief Society members through the Priesthood - coordinated courses of study an unusually valuable educational program.

For the past two years special lessons prepared for Relief Societies requiring simplified courses of study, and originally issued as "Lessons for Indian Relief Societies," have been issued by the General Board. Volume 3 is now available through the General Board office, price $2 postpaid. These lessons are a continuation of the courses of study contained in Volume 2 as follows: Lessons From The Book of Mormon; Latter-day Saint Church History; Gems of Truth From The Book of Mormon; Development Through Homemaking Education; Teaching the Gospel in the Home (three lessons); and On Earth and in Heaven (five lessons). Volume 1 "Lessons for Indian Relief Societies" ($1.25) and Volume 2 "Special Lessons for Relief Society" ($1.75) continue to be available.

818