[Vol53 | January | Magazine Page 63 | PDF Page 64]

--- PAGE 63 (PDF page 64) ---
(Ibid., 131:6; 130:18-19.) In addition to knowing the principles of salvation, there is the important "hidden treasure" of knowing by the Holy Ghost that God lives, Jesus Christ is the Savior, that Joseph Smith is God's Prophet, and his successors are also holders of the keys of the Priesthood.

Finally, the Lord promises that the destroying angel shall pass by the saints and not slay them, as he promised ancient Israel. (D&C 89:21; Exodus 12: 12-13, 29-30.) This promise does not mean that death will not come to the obedient. It is in the eternal plan that death comes to all. However, death may be bitter or sweet. (D&C 42:45-47.) He who has walked in obedience to the commandments shall receive the blessings of the angel of life—peace, mercy, hope, love, and to open the door of light and eternal life with its everlasting joys. (Conference Report, April 1925, pp. 61-62.)

The First Presidency in 1943

In with reference to the Word of Wisdom, wrote:

This declares the divine wisdom. It is God's law of health, and is binding upon each and everyone of us. We cannot escape its operation for it is based upon eternal truth. Men may agree or disagree about this word of the Lord; if they agree, it adds nothing; if they disagree, it means nothing. Beyond His word we cannot reach, and it is enough for every Latter-day Saint, willing and trying to follow divine guidance ("Message of the First Presidency," October 3, 1943).

QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION

1. Why do you think the Lord said all of the blessings promised in the Word of Wisdom revelation would come to those who live all the commandments and not only the health laws of that revelation?

2. Indicate the harmful results of drinking intoxicating beverages even in moderation.

3. According to Elder Mark E. Petersen, what effect may cigarette smoking have upon a Latter-day Saint?

4. What is meant by the promise of hidden treasures?

5. What spiritual benefits are derived from keeping the Word of Wisdom?

6. Discuss: A person's belief does not alter the truth of a revelation.

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE
Truths to Live by From the Doctrine and Covenants

Christine H. Robinson

Message 71 — "For What Doth It Profit a Man If a Gift Is Bestowed Upon Him, and He Receive Not the Gift?" (D&C 88:33)

For First Meeting, April 1966
In the Southern Hemisphere, for September 1966

Objective: To illustrate the fact that God's gifts are ours only if we accept and magnify them.

Each of us is endowed with certain gifts from our Father in heaven. These gifts are given to us individually and personally so

63