[Vol53 | November | Magazine Page 866 | PDF Page 907]

--- PAGE 866 (PDF page 907) ---
NOVEMBER 1966

some of their desires and ambitions for the future. The success of this plan, they realize, depends upon a program of self-discipline and self-denial. Many of the immediate wants which have to be curtailed since they do not want to go in debt. They invest in an insurance plan which will be a protective safeguard in the future. They also work out a plan of saving for future needs, including a home. This they do by putting aside small amounts regularly for this purpose.

Discuss the advisability of making such a plan.

What are the benefits of self-discipline and self-denial in establishing financial security?

What are the responsibilities of parents in preparing young people to accept the financial obligations of marriage and live within their means?

Case Study B: Ted and Jeanne are also beginning married life. They have no carefully worked-out plan of expenditures. Budgeting for them becomes merely a matter of distributing the income to meet obligations which have already been made. Instead of being able to establish a savings account or any other kind of plan for the future, Ted and Jeanne must depend on their ability to borrow money to offset the discrepancies which are bound to arise between income and contracted obligations.

What are the pitfalls of this kind of living? The inevitable result of this lack of foresight and planning is disastrous, and it can mean the complete collapse of the family financial structure. Money problems which arise from poor financial management, extravagance, and living beyond one's income are some of the most serious causes of bickering and quarrelling in families, sometimes leading even to divorce.

866

When starting a home it is important for husband and wife to plan the goals they wish to attain. Working together to achieve these goals will bring much satisfaction. A clearly defined goal will give to a family the incentive to make financial sacrifices in early years of married life, in order to attain the goals set by them. If young married couples start saving early for a home, they have a much better chance of obtaining their goal, than those who do not plan or work to gain their desires.

There is not an "ideal budget" or plan of expenditures for a young married couple or for any individual or group of individuals. Last month's discussion attempted to show that each family must think through and develop its own family financial plan in the form of a budget which will set up guidelines to solve its own financial problems. Be wise as a young bride and groom, but also be wise as an established family group. Try to avoid mistakes which can result from lack of foresight and planning.

SPECIFIC SAVING PRACTICES

There are specific things families may do to facilitate living within a budget. These vary in the various countries. Quantity buying of staples, for example, which is a wise practice in some countries may not be feasible where housing, climate conditions and other factors make storage for any length of time impractical.

In the United States, families may make real savings by shopping weekly for the "food leaders" advertised by grocery stores.