BEATRICE.

	Probably the most important, and certainly
the largest, of Mr. Rossetti's pictures, that
called "Dante's Dream." is now for the
first publicly shown, being included in the
Liverpool Exhibition. This noble gallery
picture, the only one by the artist which is
monumental in size, has been thus described by
the painter: "It embodies Dante's dream on
the day of the death of Beatrice, in which, with
many portents and omens, he is led by love
himself to the bedside of the dead lady, and
sees other ladies covering her with a red veil
as she lies in death. The scene is a chamber
of dreams, where Beatrice is lying on a couch
recessed in the wall as if just fallen back in
death. The winged and glowing figure of love
(the pilgrim Love of the 'Vita Nuova,' wearing
the scallop-shell on his shoulder) leads by the
hand Dante, who walks, unconscious but
absorbed, as if in sleep. Love carries his arrow
pointed at the dreamer's heart, and with a
figurative apple blossom too early plucked.
Love bends over Beatrice and kisses her, as
her lover had never done. Two dream ladies
hold the pail, full of may bloom suspended for
an instant before it covers her face forever."
The pathos of this fine picture lies of course in
the consummate sadness and grave, mournful
character of the design,the dignified tenderness
of the ladies' faces as they look on the life-
parting of those who had been lovers of the
heart and mind; the stately grace of their at-
titudes, and the sober, glowing and wonderfully
rich coloring of their broad, almost statuesque
draperies, are among the most striking qualities
of this superb painting. In no technical re-
spect has it higher merits than in its style, that
rarest of all qualities in English art. The or-
iginality and power of the work affect the
visitor exactly as a first-class specimen of an old
master of high degree affects him. In saying
this we bear very high testimony indeed to the
picture's merits. In one respect this exhibition
is almost unique, no other painting of equal
pretensions by Mr. Rossetti has before been
shown in a public gallery.—London Athenosum.


O. F. Whitney's benifit at the theatre Fri-
day Evening the 21st inst.

	AN old home is like an old violin, the music
of the past is wrought into in—Catherine Sedg-
wick.

	THE Lancet says.—"The Princess Frederica
is about to establish a convalescent home for
poor women after childbirth in the neighbor-
hood of Hampton Court.

	THE bridal veil for the Princess Victoria of
Baden, who has just been married to the Crown
Prince of Sweden, was six yards long; the ends
display alternately the arms of Sweden and
Baden, and the general design is composed of
oranges and myrtles, the borders representing
work, even the foundation, has been done with
the needle at a Hirschberg lace factory.


