A GOOD READER.

	There is one accomplishment, in particular,
which I would earnestly recommend to you.
Cultivate assiduously the ability to read well.
I stop to particularize this, because it is so very
much neglected, and because it is so elegant,
charming and ladylike an accomplishment.
Where one person is really interested by music,
twenty are pleased by good reading. Where
one person is capable of becoming a skilful
musician, twenty may become good readers.
Where there is one occasion suitable for the
exercise of musical talent, there are twenty
for that of good reading.
	The culture of the voice necessary for read-
ing well gives a delightful charm to the same
voice in conversation. Good reading is the
natural exponent and vehicle of all good
things. It is the most effective of all commen-
taries upon the works of genius. It seems to
bring dead authors to life again and makes us
sit down familiarly with the great and good of
all ages.
	Did you ever notice what life and power the
Holy Scripture has when well read? Have
you ever heard the wonderful effects produced
by Elizabeth Fry on the criminals of Newgate,
by simply reading to them the parable of the
Prodigal Son? Princes and peers of the realm,
it is said, counted it a privilege to stand in the
dismal corridors, among felons and murderers,
merely to share with them the privilege of wit-
nessing the marvelous pathos which genius,
taste and culture could infuse into that simple
story.
	What a fascination there is in really good
reading. What a power it gives one! In the
hospital, in the chamber of the invalid, in the
nursery, in the domestic and in the social cir-
cle, among chosen friends and companions, how
it enables you to minister to the amusement,
the comfort, the pleasure of dear ones, as no
other art or accomplishment can. No instru-
ment of man's devising can reach the heart as
does that most wonderful instrument, the hu-
man voice. It is God's special gift and endow-
ment to his chosen creatures. Fold it not
away in a napkin.
	If you would double the value of all your
other acquisitions, if you would add immeas-
urably to your own enjoyment and to your
power of promoting the enjoyment of others,
cultivate with incessant care this divine gift.
No music below the skies is equal to that of
pure, silvery speech from the lips of a man or
woman of high culture.
