HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG attended the Vermont
Woman's Temperance Convention and was in-
vited to speak, but as the time was limited she
only occupied a few minutes.
	LOUIS VIALLET, the French dyer, solicits the pat-
ronage of the ladies at his store on First South
Street, No. 47, near the Theatre. Silk and
woolen dresses, gloves and other articles of
wearing apparel cleaned and dyed. Orders will
be attended to promptly. Br. Viallet is experi-
enced in this business and ladies need no longer
be under the necessity of sending dresses East to
be cleaned and colored.

	A MEETING of the Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A.
was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Sat-
urday evening, Oct. 8; excellent instructions
were given by Prest. John Taylor and Prest.
Wilford Woodruff. An earnest and stirring ap-
peal was made to the young by Elder Junius F.
Wells. Mrs. E. S. Taylor, President of the
central organization of Y. L. M. I. A., ably and
eloquently represented the interests of the
young ladies.

	THE Fifty-first Semi-Annual Conference of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
was held in the large Tabernacle in the city,
commencing Thursday, Oct. 6, at 10 o'clock a.
m., and continued four days. Much good in-
struction was given by the Presidency and
Twelve Apostles on all subjects pertaining to
the work of the kingdom of God. The congre-
gations were very large, many having come
from a great distance to attend the Conference.

	THE fifth volume of the "Faith Promoting se-
ries" is now offered for sale to the public. It is
entitled, "Jacob Hamblin," and is a thrilling
narrative of the life of a man, who has had great
faith and trust in God, and whose life has been
replete with strange and miraculous interposi-
tions of Providence. Many years of his later life
has been spent in missionary work among the
Indians, and the marvelous manifesetations of
the power of God in his behalf are almost unsur-
passed in history. We recommend this book to
the youth of Zion as one of the most powerful
agents to inspire them with faith they could pos-
sibly have, and have no doubt it will do much
towards strengthening the faith of both old and
young. The book is for sale at the office
of the Juvenile Instructor and the Deseret
News establishment. It contains 140 pages of
reading matter. Price 35 cts.

	Mrs. E. R. Shipp M. D., advertises her class in
Obstetrics to open Nov. 1st. proximo. This will
afford an opportunity for those sisters who desire
to become proficient in the profession of mid
wifery, which is really a branch of science that
should receive special attention. Mrs. Shipp's

[Column 2]
terms for students are stated in the advertise-
ment and also cost of books etc. Dr. Shipp is
well known among the Latter-day Saints, she
graduated at the Woman's Medical Collage in
Philadelphia and has had considerable experience
as a physician in this city and many parts of the
Territory, and is fully capable of giving the re-
quired instruction in this important branch of
her profession.
	It would be well for those who expect to prac-
tise as midwives to be thorough in their studies,
in order to avoid any evil results from lack of
knowledge of the human body, and the various
conditions of the system as relating to mater-
nity.
	DR. Ellen B. Ferguson, of this city, was in
the city of Hartford, Conn., visiting Mrs. Isa-
bella Beecher Hooker, at the time of the Memo-
rial Services for President Garfield. Rev. Mr.
Kimball, of Unity Church in that city, invited
her to take part in the services with Mrs.
Hooker, which invitation she accepted, and oc-
cupied twenty minutes in speaking. While
visiting in Hartford she has had the opportu-
nity of meeting many noted persons, who are
much interested in her efforts to remove preju-
dice from the minds of the people concerning
the Latter-day Saints.
	Dr. Ferguson has been invited to attend the
Woman's Congress to be held at Buffalo on the
19th, 20th and 21st of this month. She will
read a paper there entitled, "Can Women Or-
ganize," in which she will incorporate the vari-
ous women's organization in this Church, in-
cluding the very successful efforts made in seri-
culture.

	"BIBLE Questions and Answers," the new
book for the Primary Associations, edited by
Eliza R. Snow Smith, is now ready and for sale
at this Office and at the Office of the Juvenile
Instructor, where it was published. This little
work will greatly facilitate the labor of the offi-
cers of these associations, and the author has
taken great pains to make the answers brief and
simple, that the children may comprehend
them and commit them to memory readily.
The most interesting and important incidents
concerning the most noted Bible characters, and
the dealings of the Lord with His people an-
ciently, may thus be engrafted upon the minds
of the little folks. Every Association should
procure two of these, that one of the officers
may ask the question and another answer it, the
children repeating the answer in concert after
her. About twenty chapters treat of Old Testa-
ment subjects, the next twenty of the New, and
the others of the Latter-day dispensation and
the prophecies of Joel, Isaiah, etc. The book
contains 44 chapters, 129 pages, and is suitable
for Sunday Schools as well as Primary Associa-
tions, or for family use. We heartily recom-
mend it to the Latter-day Saints. Price twenty-
five cents.


