THE GIFT OF HEALING

	Feeling a desire to inspire my sisters, and
more especially the rising generation, with faith
in the gifts and blessings of the Everlasting
Gospel, which has been restored in the day and
age in which we are privileged to live, I desire
to make a faithfal statement of a few incidents
in my life, both before and after I embraced
the Gospel, where the prayer of faith in con-
nection with the anointing with holy oil, has
been answered.	
	In the year 1840 Brothers Phineas Richards,
Samuel Parker, Joseph Ball and Wm. W.
Burt camo to the town of Mansfield, Tolland
County, Conn., my native home, bringing with
them the glad tidings of the Everlasting Gos-
pel, declaring that it had been restored with
all its gifts and blessings, and that the Lord
had spoken to an unlearned boy, had made
known His mind and will unto him, that he
was to be the honored instrument in His hands
of laying the foundation of the great Latter-
day work.
	I had at that time a dear and only sister,
who had been prostrated for three weary years,
with disease of the spine, being much of the time
[---] helpless as an snfant, only being moved from
her bed to her easy chair while her bed was
made. My father employed the best medical
assistance that could be found in that region.
One very skillful physician constantly and at
times a council of physicians. She was seven-
teen years of age when she was confined to her
bed, and the circumstance. I am about to relate
transpired when she was twenty. In all the
three years during which she had been under
medical treatment, I feel safe in saying she
had suffered death a hundred times in having
caustic preparations bound on her back to
cause issues, also blisters, se[-]ons and other se-
vere remedies known to old school physicians.
When the sores caused by this treatment were

[Column 2]
running she, was able to walk a few steps other-
wise she was as helpless as an infant until the
ordeal was repeated.
	The day previous to Brother Richard's visit
to my father's house, the physician who had
been her constant attendant for three years
told her he had done all he could for her, and
that he did not think it possible that she could
ever walk.
	Father Richards, being in the neighborhood,
heard of her affliction, visited her, and told
her it was her privilege to be healed, if she
would only have faith in God. Said the Gos-
pel had been restored, and with the gifts and
blessings whtch had been enjoyed in former
days. He spent some time in conversing with
her and my mother, trying to inspire them
with faith. He finally told them that he
should "stop with one of our neighbors over
night, and if they could exercise sufficient faith
in God and desired him to administer to her,
he would do so in the morning. He came,
anointed her with oil, administered unto her,
and to our surprise and delight she arose and
walked out into the orchard, and on the fol-
lowing Sabbath walked one and a half miles
to meeting.
	Previous to Brother Richards' administra-
tion she made a covenant, that in case she was
healed she would embrace the Gospel, which
she did.
	I well remember when I first heard a song
of Zion. It was at a prayer meeting in my
father's house when my dear sister arose and
sang as I never heard mortal sing before. She
was always of a delicate constitution, but after
she received the Gospel she seemed almost too
happy for earth, and said if she could be al-
lowed to gather with the Saints and behold the
Prophet Joseph she would be willing to die.
This privilege was granted her in the fall of
1841.
	In the summer of 1842 a gentleman from
St. Mary's, twenty-eight miles east of Nauvoo,
came there for assistance to carry on the silk
business. Sister Laurinda Robinson, who now
lives in Farmington, and my sister went to St.
Mary's for that purpose, as they were familiar
with that branch of business. On their way
there the flies annoyed the horses to such a de-
gree that they became nearly unmanageable,
so that they were afraid to ride. My sister not
being strong enough to bear the unusual fa-
tigue and exertaion of walking so much, was
taken ill upon her arrival at St. Mary's and
lived only two weeks, and was brought to Nau-
voo and buried with the Saints. There are
those in Utah who can testify to the truth of
what I have written. At the laying of the
corner stone of the Manti Temple Apostle
Franklin D. Richards visited me, and told my
mother that his father had the circumstance
written in his journal.
	I will now relate another circumstance which
occurred in my own life, after I had gathered
with the Saints at Nauvoo. I arrived there in
the spring of 1841, while my father's family
did not come until November of that year.
When they arrived I was confined to my bed
with canker in the mouth and throat. My fa-
ther procured a house as soon as possible, and
I was taken there on a bed. I continued to
get worse, and my life was despaired of. My
throat was eaten full of holes, and I could take
no nourishment, not even water, without suffer-
ing great pain in the effort to swallow. We
were living in a house with Brother Benjamin
Brown's family; he was absent in the State of
New York, on a mission, Sister Brown told
mother, that Bro. Brown had been wonderfully
blessed with the gift of healing. He came
home in a few days, and administered to me; I
was too low to exercise faith for myself, but
mother felt that I would be healed uuder Bro.
Brown's administration, which was the case, as
I was instantly healed after taking a spoonful

[Column 3]
of consecrated oil, so that I could eat anything
I desired.
	I can bear testimony that I know for myself
that the gifts and blessings of the Gospel are
received and enjoyed by the Latter-day Saints,
and that the consecrated oil is a healing balm
for every affliction to which mortals are heir;
and if the rising generation are properly
trained, they will net require drugs and medi-
cines, but will live by faith in the ordinances
of the Everlasting Gospel.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					REBECCA WAREHAM.
	Manti, Oct. 9, 1881.


