APOSTLE ORSON PRATT.

	The venerable and beloved Apostle, Orson
Pratt departed this life on the morning of Octo-
ber 3, at twenty minutes to nine o'clock. "He
has been about a year in feeble health, and at
times suffered severely with pain of a most ag-
gravating nature. Occasionally he would rally
considerably, and his frisnds entertained fond
hopes of his recovery to health and strength.
The Lord in His providence seems to have or-
dered it otherwise, and this great, grand and no-
ble man has gone behind the vail, to join the
Prophet Joseph, Hyrum the Patriarch, and
hosts of Saints who are laboring in another
sphere for the redemption of the human family.
	Brother Pratt had attained the age of three
score and ten, and on the 18th of September, the
day previous to his birthday, he spoke to a large
congregation in the Tabernacle in this city for
about twenty minutes. Many who heard him
on that occasion seemed to be deeply impressed
with the idea that it would be the last time he
would ever address a public meeting, alhough
hia voice was clear and his manner earnest and
forcible.
	"Orson Pratt was born in Hartford, Washing-
ton County, New York, September 19, 1811, and
was the son of Jared and Charity (Dickinson)
Pratt. His father was a descendant of William
Pratt, who, with his brother John, came to this
country from England with the Pilgrim Fathers,
and afterwards located at Hartford, Connecti-
cut, in June, 1636, having, as supposed, accom-
panied Rev. Thos. Hooker and others of his con-
gregation from Newton, now called Cambridge,
Massachusetts, to settle at Hartford. William
Pratt was a member of the Connecticut Legis-
lature during some twenty-five or thirty sessions,
and was one of the Judges of the first court in
New London County."
	"During Orson Pratt's boyhood "the family re-
moved to New Lebanon, in Columbia County,
where he attended school until 1825, acquiring a
common school education, and becoming famil-
iar with arithmetic and book-keeping. He also
studied the Bible. From the time he was eleven
years old, he worked at farming in different
places, attending school in the winter, going to
Lorain County, Ohio, in the fall of 1827, and in
the fall of 1828, performed a journey of nearly
seven hundred miles to Connecticut, went
thence to Long Island, and in the winter of
1829-30 studied geography, grammar and survey-
ing at a boarding academy.
	"In September, 1830, his brother, Parley P.
Pratt, who had embraced the Gospel taught by
Joseph Smith the Prophet, came with another
Elder to the place where Orson was residing, who
received their testimony and was baptized Sep-
tember 19, 1830, his birthday, being then nine-
teen years old. In the following month he
raveled two hundred miles to see the Prophet

[Column 2]
Joseph, in Fayette, Seneca County, New York,
and on the 4th of November received through
that servant of God the revelation to be found
in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section xxxiv,
lastest edition, in which he was called of God to
preach the Gospel, to lift up his voice both long
aud loud, to cry repentance, and prepare the
way before the coming of the Lord.
	"He was confirmed and ordained an Elder, De-
cember 1, 1830, and went on his first mission to
Colesville, Broome County, New York, and in
the early part of 1831, went on foot to Kirtland,
Ohio, where the Prophet had removed, a dis-
tance of seven hundred miles. He then per-
formed several missions in Ohio, Illinois and
Missouri, baptizing many converts. At a con-
ference in Amherst, Ohio, he was set apart June
25, 1832, to preside over the Elders, and was sent
on a mission to the Eastern States. February
1, 1832; he was ordained a High Priest.
	"He then traveled and preached without purse
or scrip, through Ohio, Pennsylvania, New Jer-
sey and New York City to Long Island, thence
northeast through part of Vermont into New
Hampshire, preaching and baptizing by the way
and making many converts in Bath, N. H.,
Charleston, Vermont, and then proceeding to
the southern part of Connecticut, with contin-
ued success. After laboring in these parts till
the fall of 1832, he started west, traveling some
three or four hundred miles, preaching, baptiz-
ing, ordaining men to the ministry, and laboring
in many parts of New York, and arrived in Kirt-
land, Ohio, Feb. 17, 1833, having traveled on
foot about 4,000 miles, baptized 104 persons, and
organized several new branches.
	"Here he attended the School of the Prophets
and again went East, performing another suc-
cessful mission, traveling 2,000 miles in six
months, and baptizing over fifty persons. After
laboring on the House of the Lord, he started
on Nov. 27, to visit the eastern churches, and
returned to Kirtland Feb. 13, 1834, having trav-
eled about 1,000 miles.
	"In thirteen days he was started out again, with
Elder Orson Hyde on a special mission, being
absent about two months, traveling 800 miles.
He next traveled with Zion's Camp to Missouri,
being captain of a company. July 7th he was
ordained one of the standing High Council in
Zion, visited the scattered churches in Clay
County, and in August was sent eastward, trav-
eling through Illinois and Indiana to Ohio, suf-
fering severely through fatigue and ague, arriv-
ing in Kirtland April 26, 1835, on which day he
was ordained one of the Twelve Apostles, under
the hands of David Whitmer and Oliver Cow-
dery. On May 4th he went on another mission
to the Eastern States, being absent a little over
six months. During the winter and early
spring he taught a grammar school in Kirtland,
and also studied Hebrew, and then received his
endowments in the Kirtland Temple. His next
mission was to the Canada West, on which he left
April 6, 1836, baptized many persons and raised
up several branches of the Church.
	"On July 4th he was married to Sarah M.
Bates, whom he had baptized in Sackett's Har-
bor, June 13, 1835. In the fall, having returned
to Kirtland, he studied algebra, and after pro-
viding a home for his wife, went to the State of
New York and labored in the ministry during
the winter of 1837-8. In April, 1838, the Saints
having been driven from Far West, he went
there to fulfil a revelation, and with several of
the Twelve, met at the cornerstone of the Tem-
ple, whence they parted to preach the Gospel to
foreign nations.
	"In the fall he preached through the eastern
churches, and in the spring of 1840 embarked
for England, preached nine months in Edin-
burgh, Scotland, raised up a branch of over 200
persons, and in the spring of 1841 started to re-

[Column 3]
turn to America. He went to Nauvoo, where
he took charge of a mathematical school; then
took a mission through the Eastern States in the
summer of 1843, and on his return in the fall
was elected to the City Council; helped to draw
up a memorial to Congress, and went to Wash-
ington to present it in the spring of 1844. He
labored among the churches east till the news
of the martyrdom of the Prophet was received,
when he returned to Nauvoo.
	"During the difficulties that succeeded the
death of the Prophet and Patriarch, he labored
with the Twelve, which was the presiding quo-
rum of the Church, in the management of its
affairs, shared in the expulsion from Nauvoo,
crossed the plains with the pioneers in 1847, and
on the way, when weather would permit, took
astronomical and other scientific observations,
determining, by the aid of the sextant and cir-
cle of reflection, the latitudes and longitudes of
the most prominent places, the changes of ele-
vation above sea level, etc., in anticipation of the
great highway which even then it was expected
by the Saints would span this vast continent.
He was the first to enter Salt Lake Valley, hav-
ing preceded the main body of the company
three days.
	"In 1848 he was appointed President over all
the branches of the Church in England, Scot-
land, Wales, Ireland, and adjacent counties,
starting on the 11th of May. The number of
Church members then was about eighteen thou-
sand, which, during his presidency of two years,
was increased to about twenty-six thousand. In
this short period he chartered and fitted out
from fifteen to eighteen ships loaded with Saints
for Utah. In the midst of this press of business,
he wrote some fifteen pamphlets, and published
and circulated several hundred thousand of
them in different languages. At the same time
he edited the Millennial Star, and increased its
circulation from less than four thousand to nearly
twenty-three thousand. He lectured, at differ-
ent times, to large audiences in the principal
cities of England and Scotland.
	"He returned in 1851, and in the winter of
1851 delivered a series of twelve astronomical
lectures to crowded audiences in the old Taber-
nacle, which were published in the Deseret
News. He was elected a member of the Legis-
lative Assembly during its first session, and at
each successive session when he was in the Ter-
ritory, and seven times was chosen Speaker of
the House.
	"In 1852 he was appointed on a mission to
Washington, to take the Presidential charge of
all the churches in the United States and Brit-
ish Provinces east of the Rocky Mountains, and
there published the Seer. In the spring and
summer of 1853 he again went on a mission to
Europe, returning the following year. On the
22d of April, 1856, he again went to England
and presided over the European mission, pub-
lishing more pamphlets, and returned by way
of California while the army was en route to
Utah, arriving home in January, 1858. On Sep-
tember 22, 1860, he was called on a mission to
the United States, being gone about one year.
On the 24th of April, 1864, he was set apart for
a mission to Austria. He went to that land,
but in consequence of the stringent laws was
unable to open the door of the kingdom to that
nation, but bore his testimony to the authorities
and left, going over to England, where he vis-
ited the conferences and labored assiduously, re-
turning August 4, 1867. In 1869 he went to
New York City and transcribed and published
the Book of Mormon in phonetic characters,
called the Deseret Alphabet.
	"In August, 1870, he held the famous three
days' discussion with Dr. J. P. Newman on the
subject of Polygamy, which; is printed in book
form and for sale.


[Column 1]
	"At the adjourned General Conference in 1874'
he was appointed and sustained Historian and
General Church Recorder, which position he re-
tained till his decease.
	"On the 18th of July, 1877, he once more left
to cross the ocean, this time to transcribe and
publish an edition of the Book of Mormon in
the Pitman phonetic characters. He was soon
called home, and returned on the 27th of Sep-
tember. On the 3d of September, 1878, he went
East with Apostle Joseph F. Smith, visiting
the Whitmers in Missouri, the Hill Cumorah
and other places figuring in the history of the
Church, and returned on the 3d of October. On
the 3d of December he started again for Eng-
land, to stereotype the Book of Mormon and
Doctrine and Covenants, which he arranged in
verses, with foot notes and references. From
this important and laborious mission, he returned
September 2, 1879. He visited a number of
Conferences, attended the Legislature, acting in
his usual capacity of Speaker of the House.
After that time his health was poor, he could do
little in the Historian's Office."
	He preached often afterwards in the Taberna-
cle, thrilling his hearers with his wonderful and
powerful eloquence, and also traveled and
preached considerably in the Territory, visiting
Stake Conferences, etc.
	"He was the last of the original Council of
the Twelve Apostles of this Church. He
crossed the ocean sixteen times on missions of
salvation. He found time to study the higher
mathematics, and in addition to his published
scientific books, has left an elaborate work in
manuscript on the Differential Calculus, con-
taining original principles. He was the father
of sixteen sons and sixteen daughters, and leaves
forty three grandchildren.
	"Following is a list of most of the works
which he has published: 
	Divine Authority; Kingdom of God, in four
parts; Remaakable Visions; Divine Authenticity
of the Book of Mormon, in six parts, Reply to
'Remarks on Mormonism;' Great First Cause;
New Jerusalem; Absurdities of Immaterialism; 
The Seer, in eighteen numbers; Eight Tracts
on the First Principles of the Gospel; Cubic and
Biquadratic Equations; Key to the Universe, or
a New Theory of its Mechanism; etc., etc."
	The funeral services of Apostle Orson Pratt
were held in the Tabernacle on Thursday, Oct.
6th, commencing at one o'clock.
	Directly after the morning services of the
Conference, the casket containing the remains
of the deceased was placed in a position for the
people to have an opportunity of looking upon
the face of the departed Apostle, whose voice
had so often resounded through that Tabernacle 
and in various places among the nations, and
whose arguments had carried to so many hearts
convincing proof of the truth of the everlasting
gospel. The coffin was covered with the most
lovely and fragrant flowers, woven in a variety
of beautiful designs, appropriate as symbols of
the life and labors of one who had filled the
measure of his days with honor and useful-
ness.
	The Large Tabernacle was filled in every part
by the appointed time, and it seemed appropri-
ate that the funeral services of one so long con-
nected with the Church should be held at its
semi-annual Conference, that the people from
all parts of the Territory might thus have the
opportunity of paying their last respects to one
who had been so widely known and so sincere-
ly beloved by the Latter-day Saints.
	The choir sang, "Hark from afar a funeral
knell."
	Prayer by President Joseph F. Smith.
	The choir sang, "Thon dost not weep to weep
alone."

[Column 2]
President Wilford Woodruff read from the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants, a revelation
through the Prophet Joseph Smith to Orson Pratt,
given November 4th, 18[-]0, and then proceeded
to make some remarks upon the life and labors
of his fellow-laborer. Said Brother Pratt's gar
ments were clean from the blood of this genera-
tion, and that he had studied and written mor'e
upon the Gospel and upon science than any man
in the Church. His remarks were consoling,
and his exhortation to the living earnest and im-
pressive.
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow said his feelings were
very similar to those of Bro. Woodruff; said
"Could Brother Pratt have the privilege to com-
municate with us he would say, 'Mourn not for
me, I have passed through the fiery ordeal, I
have, through the blessing of God, obtained the
victory, and there is secured to me the privilege
of receiving a body glorified. That body through
which I have ministered shall be made glorious.
I have been enabled to pass through affliction
and temptation, and obtained the victory."
	Apostle F. D. Richards also occupied a few
moments. Said Bro. Pratt's life had been dis-
tinguished by the labors of over half a century
in this cause, and spoke of him as a studious
and assiduous worker, and of the opinions of Prof.
Proctor that Bro. Pratt's works on astronomy
were entitled to the admiration and respect of
the scientific world.
	President John Taylor then addressed the con-
gregation, dwelling upon the labors of those who
bear the holy priesthood, and the mission men
had to perform who held that priesthood, both
here and behind the vail. The speaker also
made allusion to the death of Elder F. L. Young,
for whom memorial services were being held in 
connection with those of Apostle Orson Pratt.
	Prest. George Q. Cannon spoke of his feelings
on hearing of the death of Bro. Pratt, immedi-
ately followed by the sad message, bringing tid-
ings of the demise of Bro. F. L. Young, and
during the same day the accidental death of
Bro. Pullen, who fell from the top of the Tem-
ple to the ground. He spoke feelingly of Bro.
Young, his purity of life and nobility of charac-
ter, his integrity to the kingdom of God, and
expressed heartfelt sympathy for the bereaved.
	The choir sang, "Mourn not the dead who
peaceful lay." Benediction by Coun. D. H.
Wells.
	"The vast assembly remained seated while the
families of the bereaved and the leading author-
ities of the Church withdrew to attend to the
interment.
	"The remains of the departed Apostle were
then convey d to their resting place, there to
sleep until called forth by the trump of the res-
surrection. A carriage containing members of 
the Twelve, preceded the hearse in the proces-
sion; the First Presidency of the Church and
Bishop Hunter occupied the carriage which was
fifteenth from the head. Then followed an ex-
ceedingly large cortege, the whole comprised of
fifty-nine carriages filled with mourners.
	"Farewell, Brother Orson Pratt, until we meet
you in the Paradise of God, or until the bright
morning of the glorious day when they that
are in Christ shall come forth to greet the Sun
of Righteousness, and enter into their domin-
ion as Kings and Priests unto God for ever."

