			CONTINUED.

	In the Spring of 1879, Sister Eliza com-
menced visiting the settlements in the interest
of woman's organizations and towards the last
of April attended a large Conference in Ogden
City, thence to Box Elder for the same pur-
pose and from there proceeded on the first day
of May towards Malad valley, stopping at each
settlement in that vicinity. In each of these
places where there were a sufficient number of
children she organized a Primary Association,
and in mnay places reorganized the Y. L. M. I.
A. In Malad City assisted the presiding au-
thorities in reorganizing the Relief Society of
that place; her labors seemed indeed arduous for
one of her years, but she heeded neither cold or
storm, traveling in all kinds of weather always
cheerful and ever ready to attend to the duties
of her mission, and administer to the sick and
afflicted when ever called upon in the places
she visited.
	During the ensuing summer she made an-
other tour through a large portion of Cache,
and all of Bear Lake County, returning by
the way of Rich County. While absent she
organized Primary Associations in the different
settlements she visited, and held something
near forty meetings; assisting in organizing
other Associations in several places. In her
journeyings from place to place among the
people she has in her remarks in public and

[Column 2]
private specially dwelt upon the necessity of
home industries and home manufacture en-
couraging the [---] all in her power to set
out mulberry trees and persevere in spite of
every obstacle in the raising of cocoons, and
promoting the silk enterprise, also in braiding
straw and wearing hats and bonnets made in
Utah, instead of sending for them from abroad,
and in all matters of becoming self-sustaining
she has ever used her utmost influence.
	Traveling among the people and meeting
them in their homes Sister Eliza has become
intimately acquainted with many thousands,
and her name is a household word in the dwell-
ing places in Zion. By thus associating she
became more than ever conscious of the need
of suitable books for the children of the Saints
to use in the Primary Associations, and accord-
ingly she decided to prepare a hymn book for
the little folks, and begun gathering together
material to be used for such a work.
	In August after returning from the fatiguing
journey through the northern settlements Sister
Eliza traveled through Wasatch Co. She as-
sisted the President of that Stake in organizing
the Relief Societies, and Y.L.M.I.A., in a Stake
capacity and also aided several Bishops in
making reorganizations of Relief Societies in
their respective wards. In addition to this she
organized the children in each of the settle-
ments she visited.
	The same fall the lady visited Sevier Co., and
while there organized and performed like duties
organizing Primary Associations etc. It was
at that time she took what she facetiously
terms her "famous ride." Going over to Glen-
wood through the canon the charioteer took
the wrong route or lost his way, and drove over
places where "man never trod before" at least
not in this day and age; the road was so rough
it was impossible to keep one's seat and the
party were well jumbled up. The ladies all
took the joke or mistake good-humoredly and
Sister Eliza, it is said frequently expressed her-
self as desirous they should come out of the
forest glen "into a place where they at least
spoke the English language." Remember dear
reader this lady was at that time seventy-five
years old, and yet she made no complaint of
fatigue or weariness; and she has often told
me since how magnificent the scenery was
through which they passed in that eventful
ride.
	In December of that year she visited Ogden
and spent two weeks in going through Weber
Co., attending meetings with Relief Societies,
Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations.
	At the residence of Sister Jane S. Richards
in Ogden Sister Eliza was the happy recipient
of two surprise parties arranged by the Primary
Associations of that city. The first was given
by the Third Ward P. A., and the next by the
Second Ward. There were from sixty to sev-
enty children on each occasion. who went
through a variety of exercises, singing, music,
recitations, dialogues, answering questions. etc.
	Sister Eliza in speaking of these occurrences
to me said "I never shall forget those two even-
ings." She also referred to the Conference of
the four Primary Associations of Ogden City
at that time as the crowning event of her
visit.
	In the early part of the year of 1880 Sister
Eliza spent much time in attending meetings
and organizing Primary Associations in Salt
Lake and adjoining Counties, and in assisting
the officers of these new organizations in prac-

[Column 3]
tically carrying out the counsel given by which
to conduct their meetings.
	In March Sister E.R.S.S. attended the
Conferences of Relief Societies, Y.L.M.I.A.
and P.A. of Weber Stake and took part in the
proceedings with Pres. John Taylor and Apos-
tle F.D. Richards.

To be continued.


