BOX ELDER.

	Quarterly Conference of the Primary Asso-
ciation of Box Elder Stake opened at two p.
m. Wednesday, Sept. 14, 1881, in Brigham
City Meeting House, Pres't. Abagail S. Rosen-
baum presiding. Present on the stand were
officers of the P. A., the President and officers of
Relief Society; also Superintendent of Y. L.
A., Patriarch Box, Superintendent Kelly, Sis-
ters E. Howard, of Salt Lake City, and J. S.
Richards, from Ogden. Singing, "Come, chil-
dren, come," &c. Prayer by Coun. M. E.
Wilde.  Singing, "In the chambers of the
mountains." Minutes of the previous Confer-


ence read and approved. Condensed report of
the Stake read by the Secretary; also a report
read stating the condition of the Societies
which had been visited since last Conference;
all were reported favorably. The Treasurer's
account was then read. Sister Genie S. Pierce
was then sustained as Corresponding Secretary
of the Stake by a unanimous vote, also Miss
Amelia Graehl as Stake Organist.
	The Program consisted of songs and reci-
tations from the children. Sisters Howard
and Richards gave some excellent instructions,
which the children and all present seemed to
appreciate, followed by Supt. Kelly, Pres't.
Harriet A. Snow and Patriarch Box. Officers
of the Primary Association were then sus-﻿
tained and Conference was adjourned for three
months. Singing, "Joseph Smith's first
prayer." Benediction by Coun. Phebe W.
Snow.
	Condensed report of the Primary Associa-
tion of Box Elder Stake, viz., the First, Sec-
ond and Third Wards of Brigham City, Man-
tua, Willard, West Portage, Snowville, Three
Mile Creek, North Ward, Lake Side District,
Bear River City, Calls Fort, Malad Ward and
Samhria.
	Number of officers presiding over the above-
named associations, 76, Members enrolled,
1,093. Average attendance, 484. Number of
meetings held, 700. Amount donated since
the organization, $156.70. Amount disbursed,
$128.04. Receipts from the various associa-
tions for emigrating a poor child from Eng-
land, $50; $40.50 has been sent for the child
		A. S. ROSENBAUM, President.
		GENIE S. PEIRCE, Cor. Sec'y.
	P. S. We have had a three days' Fair of
the P. A. of this Stake; will send particulars
in a few days.


