BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The following narrative I write in words of
soberness and truth, for the benefit of the
Saints, particularly the youth in Zion, as well
as those who have been so long seeking for the
exposition of "Mormonsim," or "Polygamy,"
but have failed, because they sought not the
truth,  but have preferred to believe the extrav-
agant tales told by those who misrepresent us.
	To such as believe "Mormon" women to be
the dupes and slaves of men, I will relate the
testimonies of my sainted mother and father,
which I heard repeatedly from their own lips
in days gone by. My mother said she could
not doubt that the principle of plurality of
wives was of divine origin, for the Lord had
shown it to her in answer to prayer.
	She was a very consciencious woman, and of
such strong faith that she never doubted after
once being convinced of the truth, but she had
to be convinced before accepting any principle.
It was three weeks after my father was bap-
tized into this Church before she saw the nec-
essity of again submitting to that ordinance 
(they had both been previously baptized into
the Baptist Church), and during that period
my father mourned for her as one would mourn
for the dead.
	In Nauvoo the Prophet's life was in constant
jeopardy, not only from outside influences and
enemies, who were seeking some plea to take
him back to Missouri, but from false brethren,
who had crept into his bosom and then be-
trayed him. Therefore, when he told my fa-
ther to take a second wife, he requested him to
keep it a secret and not divulge it even to my
mother, for fear that she would not receive the
principle. Father realized the situation fully,
and the love and reverence he felt for the
Prophet was so great that he would rather have
laid down his own life than have betrayed him.
This was the greatest test of his faith he had
ever experienced.
	When first hearing the principle taught, be-
lieving that he would be called upon to enter
into it, he thought of the two Sisters Pitkin,
who, as they were both elderly ladies and great
friends of my mother's, he believed would cause
her little if any unhappiness. The woman he
was commanded to take, however, was an En-
glish lady nearer my mother's age, who came
over with her husband and two little girls with
a company of Saints in the same ship in which
President Brigham Young and my father were
returning from their second mission to Europe.
She had been reared in luxury, but had the
misfortune to be married to a man who, though
of respectable and wealthy parents, and capa-
ble of carrying on a large business in the pot-
tery line, was a very dissipated man and ran
through with his own means and all of hers
that he could obtain. She had three wealthy
brothers, who took charge of her property, to
prevent her husband from squandering it. He
loved his wife and children with all the affec-
tion of which he was capable, but was so brutal
to them when under the influence of liquor,
that twice she had been obliged to leave him
and seek refuge in the homes of her brothers;
but after many professions and promises of re-
form she was induced to return. This was pre-
vious to their hearing of "Mormonism," so they
could not very well lay it to "Polygamy."
	Upon hearing the Gospel she received it; as
also her husband, but he was not sincere. Her
brothers considered this step unpardonable, and
thought they were more disgraced by her join-
ing the awful people called "Mormons," than 
in living with a drunken and dissolute hus-
band.
	The first time I ever saw him was a few days
after their arrival in Nauvoo; he was then half
intoxicated. She was proud and very sensi-

[Column 2]
tive, and being among strangers in a strange
land, it placed her under  very peculiar and
trying circumstances. My father and mother
and the neighbors were very kind to her. They
rented a log house of a Mr. Hibbard, an old
settler in Commerce. While living in their
house, Mr.—came home so drunk that his
abusive treatment of his wife and children out-
raged the feelings of Mr. Hibbard and family,
and they interfered and drove him from the
house. His wife could no longer live with him,
and soon after he returned to England.
	This, no doubt, was the cause of father's be-
ing told by the Prophet to take her and the
children, to provide them with a home; but
the thought of deceiving the kind and faithful
wife of his youth, whom he loved with all his
heart, and who with him had borne so patiently
their separation and all the trials and sacrifices
they had been called to endure, was more than
he felt able to bear. He realized not only the
addition of trouble and perplexities that such 
a step must bring upon him, but his sorrow
and misery were increased by the thought of
my mother hearing of it from some other
source, which would no doubt separate them
forever, and he shrank from the thought of
such a thing, or of causing her any unhappi-
ness. Finally he was so tried that he went to
Joseph and told him how he felt—that he was
fearful if he took such a step he could not
stand, but would be overcome. The Prophet
went and inquired of the Lord; His answer
was: "Tell him to go and do as he has been
commanded, and if I see that there is any
danger of his apostatizing, I will take him to 
myself."
	Father was heard many a time to say that
he had shed bushels of tears over this ORDER,
the order of "Celestial or plural marriage."
	The Prophet told him the third time before
he obeyed the command. This shows that the
trial must have been extraordinary, for he was 
a man who from the first had yielded implicit
obedience to every requirement of the Prophet.
	My mother had noticed a change in his
looks and appearance, and when she enquired
the cause he tried to evade her question, say-
ing it was only her imagination, or that he was
not feeling well, etc. But it so worked upon
his mind that his anxious and haggard looks
betrayed him daily and hourly, and finally his
misery became so unbearable that it was im-
possible to control his feelings. He became
sick in body, but his mental wretchedness was 
too great to allow of his retiring at night, and
instead of going to bed he would walk, the
floor, and the agony of his mind was so terri-
ble that he would wring his hands and weep,
beseeching the Lord with his whole soul to be
merciful and reveal to his wife the cause of his
great sorrow, for he himself could not break
his vow of secrecy. His anguish, and my
mother's were indescribable, and when unable
to endure it longer, she retired to her room,
where, with a broken and contrite heart she
poured out her grief to Him who hath said:
"If any lack wisdom let him ask of God, who
giveth to all men liberally, and unbraideth
not." "Seek and ye shall find, knock and it
shall be opened unto you."
	My father's heart was raised at the same
time in supplication, and while pleading as one
would plead for  life, the vision of her mind
was opened, and as darkness fleeth before the
morning sun, so did her sorrow and the grov-
eling things of  earth vanish away; and before
her she saw the principle of Celestial Marriage
illustrated in all its beauty and glory, together
with the great exaltation and honor it would
confer upon her in that immortal and celestial
sphere if she would but accept it and stand in
her place by her husband's side. She was also
shown the woman he had taken to wife, and
contemplated with joy the vast and boundless
love and union which this order would bring

[Column 3]
about as well as the increase of kingdoms, 
power and glory extending throughout the
eternities, worlds without end.
	Her soul was satisfied and filled with the
Spirit of God. With a countenance beaming
with joy she returned to my father, saying,
"Heber, what you kept from me the Lord has
shown to me.
	She related the scene to me and to many
others, and told me she never saw so happy a
man as father was, when she described the
vision and told him she was satisfied and knew
that it was from God. She covenanted to
stand by him and honor the principle, which
covenant she faithfully kept, and though her
trials were often heavy and grievous to bear, 
her integrity was unflinching to the end.

To be continued.


