S. L. STAKE Y. L. M. I. A.

	Minutes of the Semi-Annual Conference of
the Y. L. M. I. A., held in the Assembly Hall,
S. L. City, Sept. 24, 1881, Pres't. Mary A.
Freeze presiding. Meeting opened by singing,
"Come, come; ye Saints." Prayer by Pres't.
E. S. Taylor. Singing, "Come all ye sons of
Zion." Minutes of previous Conference read
and accepted. Reports from several branch
associations were also read.
	Pres't. Freeze said: I am thankful and
pleased to hear the reports that had been sent
in; I feel encouraged. I am sorry to see so
few of the young ladies present, but am thank-
ful for the presence of the older sisters. I
wish every ward had been represented. After
this we will require only half yearly reports.
I feel that the Spirit of the Lord is here. I
have sought earnestly to the Lord for some-
thing by which we might awaken the negli-
gent. Most of the young feel that these asso-
ciations are good, but do not feel obliged to
attend. We should feel it an obligation to
go, to learn, to assist and lend an influence.
Sister Rogers told the children this morning
that we are blessed in blessing others. To
know that we are approved by our Father in
heaven is a blessing. Let us not delay because
some one else can do better; we cannot all
stand at the top, we begin at the foot. We
would feel better to have more testimony meet-
ings; testimony bearing brings a joy beyond
that afforded by writing, or other efforts. I
know these meetings are a grand school; I have
received great blessings from the experience I
have obtained in them. I often say that Moses
became great because he sought God in the
days of his youth. Seek to God, if you lack
wisdom, He will not upbraid you; you may
tell Him your weakness without shame. Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow Smith feels very anxious to
see an interest awakened among these young
people; she suggested that the officers hold a


monthly meeting to discuss and decide what to
do. The place of meeting will be announced
through the press. Let us not turn backward.
There are many here we would like to listen
to. That we may be blessed is my desire.  
	Coun. Louie Felt. My sisters, I feel my
weakness in standing before you. I wonder
how it is we need to be urged so. I know
Pres't. Freeze does all in her power, but she
cannot do it all. It is our imperative duty to
inquire if we are doing all we can. Every
young lady has an influence, and should use it
for good. How happy we are in our meetings
together, and how soon we become careless. I
do not wish to take up your time. I wish an
interest in your faith and prayers, and that God
may help us is my prayer.
	Pres't E. S. Taylor said: It seems strange to
me that we are not more earnest in the work
in which we are engaged. Whether officer or
member, each has an immortal soul, for which
salvation is the reward, if we will strive to
gain it; we cannot depend on parents friends,
or others, we must accomplish it for ourselves.
The mother can do more than the officer can,
if she will inspire a desire in her children to
learn the ways of the Lord. If a daughter is
busy at home, the mother will, by her over-
sight and advice, see that it is properly done;
how much more important than common du-
ties is attention to spiritual matters. Each
sister should exert an influence also with her
husband. Convert him to the idea that God
has given you, too, a mission, side by side with
him. That God may give us confidence, that
we may improve the talents He has given us,
and bring also usury, is my prayer.
	Mrs. E. Howard: I see many mothers and
grand-mothers here. Cannot they use an influ-
ence with the girls? I think I see an influence
growing among us, the spirit of which is pride
and worldliness, and a little arrogance. In our
ward we had an association, but I know that
through frivolity and fear of ridicule, or bash-
fulness, the meetings have died out. We never
can accomplish anything in this way. I have
found good in all the meetings I have attended.
I am not in favor of adjourning the meetings.
The evening is a time all might spare a few
hours. Let them speak on domestic subjects,
or on any good topics. These meetings are for
everything that is good. I heard a young lady
say she had not been specially instructed in re-
gard to personal neatness. Neatness and
cleanliness are conducive to good health. Can
we not speak of the ill effects of tight lacing,
high-heeled shoes, etc.? Where is the happi-
ness of a companion who is suffering continu-
ally with wrecked health? These complaints
are good news to the evil one, who takes ad-
vantage to work upon the mind. Let us rest
when we need it. May the Lord bless you
who are here to-day, and don't adjourn your
meetings; discourage the proposition. You
can lay aside your work for beaux—and have
a care, girls, who you keep company with.
	Related an incident of rude familiarity she
witnessed and advised girls concerning the
course they should take to preserve their wo-
manly dignity. Urged the observance of the
Word of Wisdom.
	Pres't Freeze said: I see many who could
give us good advice, but our time is short.
Let me urge you to avoid extravagance and
cultivate industry.
	Conference was adjourned for three months.
Sang, "The time is far spent." Benediction by
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith.
	AGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON,
		Stake Secretary Y. L. M. I. A.


