WOMAN'S CONGRESS.

To the Members of the Association for the Ad-
vancement of Women:
	With the revolution of the year, the time
has come to invite you to attend the annual
meeting of the association. This year's Con-
gress, the ninth in order, will be held at Buf-
falo, N. Y., at St. James Hall, October 19, 20
and 21.
	These meetings were originally devised in
order to supply a need long felt and recognized,
the need of more extended intercourse, and
better acquaintance among the women who are
at once best able and most desirous to enlarge
the opportunities of their sex, and to raise the
standard of its hopes and attainments.
	The coming together from a vast and varied
extent of country of women devoted to these
objects cannot fail to do much in removing
the limits and barriers of local prejudice and
in bringing the best knowledge of each within
the reach of all.
	As years roll on the accumulation of exper-
ience makes it more and more possible for wo-
men to learn how they can best help each
other. Every good undertaking; moreover,
opens the way for some good work. The val-
ued record of our past meetings leads us to
hope that in the future their usefulness may
be increased rather than diminished; and that
we working in our day and generation, may
leave behind us results which will be helpful
to generations yet to come.
	In this hope we commend the Woman's Con-
gress of 1881 to the best efforts and best wishes
of all the members of the association.
		JULIA WARD HOWE, President.
		KATE GANNET WELLS, Secretary.


CORALIE at the Theatre Friday evening.

	THE ladies engaged in the practice and study
of medicine gave a garden party on the 5th of 
August, in the grounds of the London College
of Medicine for Women. It was attended by
a large and fashionable company of ladies and
gentlemen, many of the more prominent mem-
bers of the International Medical Congress—
especially the French, German and Russian
representatives of the profession—being among
the guests.

	MRS. Noyes, wife of the ex-Minister, during
her residence in Paris, her health being not
robust enough to permit of her going much
into society, was frequently confined to her
rooms. The thought occurred to her to unite
amusement with usefulness during her enforced
leisure. So, she sent for those well versed in
the art of making the finest artificial flowers,
and took regular lessons until she perfected
herself in that industry, intending on her re-
turn to Cincinnati to found there a class of
poor women, whom she will instruct in making
the finest artificial flowers used by ladies.


