FERAMORZ LITTLE YOUNG.

	News was received in this city, by telegram,
on Monday morning, Oct. 3, of the death at sea
of Elder F. L. Young, of typhoid fever, one
hundred miles out of Havanna as he was re-
turning from a Mission to Mexico, in company
with Apostle Moses Thatcher. Elder Young
left home to fill this mision with Elder Thatcher

[Column 3]
November 17, 1880. While in Mexico he labor-
ed diligently, studying the Spanish language,
and assisted Elders Thatcher and Stewart in
publishing articles and pamphlets in Spanish,
to promote the spread of the gospel in that
language. His health was delicate and he
had written home to that effect,
but no serious apprehensions of immedi-
ate danger were entertained concerning him,
and he was expected home on the evening of the
2nd inst., and in fond anticipation of his arrival,
his sisters and some others went to the depot to
welcome him.

"Expecting still his advent home,
And ever met him on his way
With wishes, thinking, here to-day,
Or here to-morrow will he come."

	From this it may be imagined how unex-
pected was the news of his death the following
morning. A whole household plunged momen-
tarily into the depths of sorrow and mourn-
ing for a brother and son.
	Ferrie Young was so noble, so angelic in his
nature, so attractive in his manner, and possessed
so many manly virtues and characteris-
tics of the highest type, that to know 
him was to love him, therefore he had hosts of
friends to mourn the loss of his society. 
	Feramorz Little Young was the son of the late
President Brigham Young and Mrs. Lucy
Decker Young, and was born in Salt Lake City,
September 16, 1858. He was a studious boy, al-
ways religiously inclined and thoughtful beyond
his years. His early education was received at
the Deseret University in this city, where he
made rapid progress, and when he was scarce
sixteen, he was sent to the Naval Academy at
Annapolis, Maryland. He remained there two
years and then entered the Polytechnic Insti-
tute at Troy, New York, from which he gradu-
ated in 1880. He was greatly beloved by his as-
sociates at home and abroad.
	Brother Feramorz sleeps beneath the ocean
waves, but his rest will be as tranquil and as
sweet as though his body lay in the grave in his
own mountain home, and in the morning of the
first resurrection, when the sea gives up its
dead, he will arise and receive again the body
he laid down with the Gospel armor on—in the
service of his Lord and Master.
	May the peace of heaven rest upon the be-
reaved ones, the joy and consolation of the Holy
Spirit fill their hearts, and the bright anticipa-
tion of the future meeting behind the veil com-
fort them in their hours of grief and mourning
for the loved one gone before.

