LIGHT READING.

	The intention was to prove that novel-read-
ing is a study of art; in the last I mentioned

[Column 2]
that it could be proven, and now I shall en-
deavor to bring forward the necessary argu-
ments. If it can be proven that novel writing
is an art then the admission that the intel-
ligent and observant reading of a novel is a
study of art cannot be avoided. When the sculp-
tor fashions a form or a group of forms from
the amorphous marble, he does it for the pur-
pose of expressing some idea, which, whether
it is inspired or is the result of cool and
collected reflection, has incited him to his
exalted labor. His art is judged by the idea
and by the genius displayed in forcing the
stubborn marble to express that idea. The
thought is the inspiration, and if the execution
is in keeping with the idea, it becomes a work
of art. It looks simple enough. A student of
sculpture is not necessarily one who devotes his
time to sculpturing, but is one who thinks
deeply of it, and whose researches and examina-
tions give weight to his opinions on sculp-
ture. The same is true of the painter. He
gives expression to an idea and as the thought
and execution are admirable, or otherwise, he
is held to be more or less of an artist. What
is true in these respects is true in music, is true
in every branch of art; and he who seeks to
acquire information on any or all of these
branches, whether he puts that information into
practical use or not, is a student of art. Web-
ster may not give this definition, but it so near
the general acceptance of the word that it
would be useless to discuss the matter.
	The assumption is that the novel writer has
an idea; he wishes to give it expression, and
to do this he writes a book. As the idea and
its realization in the work are excellent or poor,
the writer is judged to be a praiseworthy or un-
worthy author. Is not the comparison a rea-
sonable one? If it is true that there are ten
good novel writers to one good sculptor, or ar-
tist, or musician, it does not make the work of
the novel writer less difficult, less arduous, than
that of the others mentioned; nor does it call
into play less intellect, or require less exper-
ience, or less inspiration. In many respects, if
not in a vast majority, the labor of the novelist
is incomparably more difficult than that of any
others; and for two reasons: the duty in itself
is more arduous, and his power with the people
far greater for evil, is a thousand times more
potent.
	The novelist is a creator. He makes his own
worlds, peoples them with beings of his own cre-
ation; they appear as he desires; they speak,
move, think, and act as he directs, and at his
bidding quit forever the scenes in which they
have played a part, more or less important, as
he may have designed.
	Every play written by Shakespeare consti-
tutes a world in itself; and every novel, if it is
entitled to the appellation, is a world in itself. 
An inspiration rests upon the author, in his
minds eye a world appears before him, and his
glowing imagination pictures a people inhabit-
ing it who live, who do good and bad acts, and
who are actuated by good and bad motives.
He sees what incites a man to action, how, in
the pursuits of the several ends, which are de-
sired by the several inhabitants men come in
contact, and how they harmonize; he beholds
the events that lead some men to wealth and
power, and sees how a train of circumstances
will change a man of originally good motives
to a being desirious of securing certain results
even if they must be proven by unjust means.
The heart is open to his gaze, its desires and as-
pirations are exposed, and when the thoughts of
the active mind reveal themselves the source of
the tears and joys of his world cease to be mys-
teries and its book of life is opened to his vision.
In writing the novel he strives to express these
ideas that others may see them as he does. If
his thoughts are consistent and based on rea-
son, and if the execution be good he is a good
novelist. Every being in the world of the

[Column 3]
author is one of a class of people which forms
the whole. Is it not a sublime art to create
such a work? And is it not a study of art to
read the products of such a mind. By means
of novels many wide-spread abuses have been
corrected in nations. The abolition of the
debtors prison in England is alleged to be due
more to the writings of Dickens in "Little Dor-
ritt," and other of his works than to any other,
for the reason that he brought the evil so
vividly and so forcibly before all that it had to
be corrected. Charles Read has performed like
services by means of the oft despised novel; and
a host of other instances might be cited.
	The gift of the novelist—in the exalted sense
of the word—is the gift of true insperation, and
in the hands of a sound man, it is a form for
good which should not be ignored. There is
enlightenment in the good novel; pleasure and
profit and food for thought for the laborer and
pleasure and profit and food for reflection for
the philosopher and the scientist. It teaches
the desires that move us in life, portrays more
clearly the advantage and the blessing of noble
aspirations and thoughts; and paints the evils
that follow a yielding to vicious and unholy
acts; leads to better walks in life, makes the
world more sympathetic, inculcates benevol-
ence; it is a work of grand art. Its persuit is a
study of art. There are more virtues in a novel-
reading than are dreamt of by the average
philosopher.
