Blue Herons, Prairie Dogs and Men By Harrison R. Merrill HERE are those who speak as if nature, so called, has control of a magpie that builds its crude nest in a thorn tree, but that she does not operate in the case of a man who builds a cabin or a city. Those same people glorify the instinct of the animal and condemn the intellect of the human being. At the risk of being counted very elemental in such matters, I am going to relate a few incidents. Traveling along the shores of Utah Lake in an open boat, I came upon a village of blue herons. These long-legged fish-eaters, being gregarious, had chosen to build a community rather than homes widely separated. More than three hundred nests were perched in various positions in their respective cottonwood trees. One tree frequently served as the foundation for as many as five homes. Now if the herons had policemen, a water system, and a light plant, I could not discover them, but I was certain that they had a mayor and city council, for how else could they live in peace together? Passing along the wide valley that BLUE HERONS, PRAIRIE DOGS AND MEN separates Antimony from Bryce Canyon, I came upon a prairie dog village. These chaps, for reasons that I could not discover, like the herons, had decided to build a city, not a countryside. They had thei. Streets, not more crooked than some of those I found in Boston I assure you, and their fields which regularly they harvested. In addition they had their gossips and their scolds. Following a concrete highway, once upon a time, I came to a human village. It was set down beside a 361 little stream which could serve as well for culinary and drinking purposes as for laundry and irrigation. These animals had been able to build a bit better than the herons or the prairie dogs. Their houses were storm proof and their streets were paved. They had stoves with which they conquered the cold, and lights with which they overcame darkness. Now there are people who have so much to say about going back to nature that I have come to believe that they are of the opinion that the heron and the prairie dog and the magpie are living a more normal and, therefore, a happier life than man. They seem to think that man would be healthier, would live long er, would be happier if he could move out of his city or home into the country or the open; if he could stop reasoning and could get along with instinct. To all such I would like to say, "Piffle,' in a very friendly way, of course, but ''Piffle," nevertheless. I am a great believer in, and admirer of, man. With very little additional urging I could orate into Shakespearean language—"What a piece of work is man," or into Davidian poetry—"What is man that Thou art mindful of him'—but I shan't just now. I am of the opinion that it is rather natural for man to build villages and cities, and that he can build them mighty well after these centuries. The best bird's nest I have ever seen, or the best prairiedog hole I have ever followed with a spade would seem very crude beside some of the "nests" I have seen men build. J can look at an apartment housing a hundred families and can wax very eloquent about it. Why isn't it as natural as a heron rookery or a prairie-dog village, I should like to know—and much more sanitary and sensible? Those Blue Herons, with all their "nature" and their "instinct" had not built a sewer system. They had not even established a: burial place or a burial custom. Young that could not stand the rigors of the climate or the storms were ruthlessly clawed from the nests and allowed to rot on the ground below. Refuse from the tables in the form of half devoured fish lay about under the trees polluting the air, until I lost much of my respect for the dignified gentlemen whom I have often seen with pants rolled up sedately wading in stream or lake. NOW the most healthful place I know anything about is a right good, up-to-date city built by that animal called man. The water he drinks in such a city is germproofed and frequently tested; the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE food he eats is kept fresh and lovely with ice and refrigeration; the milk he serves to his children is clean and wholesome; the rooms he sleeps in are free from vermin and even flies and beetles; the utensils he uses have been sterilized. Even the sun cannot leave him in darkness or without his violet rays. He does not strain his ancestors with heavy lifting—he called upon the lightning to be his servant. His exercise is measured and his food is rightly chosen. He doesn't gorge himself today and starve tomorrow. He has learned to live a long time and well. Now if I want to see the marvels of the animal kingdom, I go not to the "temple haunting martlet," as beautifully as he builds his nest, nor to the bee as marvelously as he shapes his honey cells, not to BLUE HERONS, PRAIRIE DOGS AND MEN the spider, as delicately as he spins his web. I go to man, a child of nature, the paragon of them all. And so when people rave about "nature's way" as if it were different from or superior to man's way, I merely say—''Piffle," in that same friendly tone of voice I have used once before. When I look into the home of the new bride or the established matron and see her modern kitchen with its electric appliances, its beautiful utensils, its sink and water taps, its fly-proof doors and cupboards, its polished floor; or her living room with its comfortable chairs, its davenport, its bridge lamps, its paintings, its glass windows and storm-proof roof and ceiling; or her bedroom and see her beautiful bed, her dressing table, her house-slippers, her blankets and clean sheets; or her bathroom and see her equipment, I say what a
363 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
marvelous little beast is she, after all. What other can compare with her. Under her care I would have hope of living longer, happier, and more usefully than in any nest of sticks or hole of dirt in the land. And so, dear reader, if you are still with me, allow me to say that in my very humble opinion a human city is just as "natural" as a prairie-dog city and it is much more beautiful and healthful. I fear disease, accident, discomfort far more outside than inside cities and towns, and fine, human-made homes, city or country. If I wanted to know about a good balanced ration, if I wanted to learn how to live to the uttermost, I would not go to a cow or a horse, or even to a monkey— I would go to a human being, the most intelligent one I could find, one who had learned to live by intellect rather than by instinct.

