[Vol24 | March 1937 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Interesting Hyde]

Interesting Monotony By Florence Ivins Hyde SUPPOSE I should have felt ] complimented when I was told that I am too intelligent to spend my life "keeping house." "The monotony of it makes me nervous," my acquaintance said, "and besides that I think we owe something to the public."
Instead of puffing up as perhaps I should have done, I bristled. I almost resented the sympathy of this woman who leaves her one child to grow up alone while she spends the mornings in her car and the afternoons playing bridge or at some "culture club." And so in my own mind I began to "throw my quills."
Such women are exceedingly generous with their sympathy and advice.
They could just weep for Mary Gray when her sixth child was born.
They feign the greatest compassion because the husband of Mrs. M. Doesn't earn enough to furnish her with hired help. "It is enough," I have heard them say, "to have to plan all your work without having to execute it too."
They think that to be parasitic is an evidence that fortune has smiled upon them. I have seen some look with a supercilious air of compassion upon their unfortunate sisters, never realizing that this housewife whom they pity, this slave who grinds away at her job, has her own powerful defense. MAY women relish the advice of such writers as Dorothy Dix when she says that every woman should take a vacation away from her husband and children, once a year.
That when she has cooked 1095 meals, washed that many dishes, and made more than that number of beds, she has earned a vacation.
They absorb with interest the stories of such writers as Sinclair Lewis when he describes the boresome life of the small town woman.
Such daily tasks as the routine of hearing her husband build a furnace fire every morning, "got on her nerves'? So completely that her only alternative was to walk away and leave it all.
Perhaps it does not occur to them that a housewife can be well adjusted and see romance even in housework. For rearing a family covers a multitude of arts; it taxes the ingenuity and intelligence to the very limit, and women who are doing the job successfully, look almost with disdain upon the woman who feeds her family from cans. "THE profession of housewifery can be both stimulating and remunerative.
With her first child, a woman's serious problems begin. She must learn something of nutrition and if she does it as it should be done, her mental capacity will be taxed, equally, I am sure, with the bridge player.
Understanding the "why" of feeding the family places her on a par with the profession of medicine. It is not long before the wideawake mother begins to wonder, "What stories should my child hear?" and as she delves into the fine books at hand in an effort to answer this question, she learns that nothing a child ever learns afterward, influences him more than the stories told in his childhood, a challenging statement. And when as she proceeds, the truth begins to sink in that human destiny is largely shaped by the nurture or neglect of childhood INTERESTING MONOTONY  she discovers that her life's work is mapped out. And to her it is not a sacrifice, for in her attempt to understand her family and to solve its problems, she is led into a study of most of the problems of life, from bookkeeping to all the things that make for the enrichment of life. WHEN her child begins to talk and she thinks it unusually bright or as in some cases unusually dull, it is exceedingly stimulating and wholesome to find out what other children have done in the way of developing a vocabulary, and if she has enough intellectual curiosity, she is led into a study as fascinating as the adventures of Monte Cristo, himself.. PERHAPS the time comes when she feels her child is not reaching the heights in school grades that some other child is doing, and she wonders why. A study of the intelligence of school children is one of the most interesting studies science has to offer.
From it she soon learns that although children differ vastly in mental ability, the schools still hold them all up to the same standards of excellence,—a problem worth looking into. A large proportion of children are forced to leave school with little preparation for life, simply because they are intellectually incapable of mastering the curriculum which the school has set up. Interest, will power, social adaptability, leadership, personality, all have a great influence upon success, but some of the saddest failures in life are due to the selection of a vocation which requires a higher grade of ability than the individual possesses 155
One feels a certain security in the knowledge that many such mistakes might be prevented by the use of intelligence tests. All these facts make this housewife wonder, "what can I do about it all?' And from here the path is not long to a serious study of human behavior, involving such practical home problems as correct habits, cooperation in the home, the conflicts and escapes of youth and adolescence, religious' education, and many other constantly recurring problems. She has a comforting experience when she learns that mental conflicts are natural during adolescence, that the solution of the conflict is the secret of existence, that failure to solve it means disaster and that it is possible to learn how to salve it. N this day of confusion it is worth while to learn that religion, like other things, must be taught; that one great truth is to never teaeh anything which has to be unlearned; and that the early habit of straight and unhampered thinking is one of the finest heritages we can give to our children.
Every reaction of a child to a situation is just as definite a symptom of his mental and emotional set-up as a temperature is a symptom in disease. And so, handling a family is a job for the elite.
Enrichment of life does not consist of frills and publicity.
Notoriety is not the thing to be sought after. It is infinitely more satisfying to hear a son or a daughter say, '"Mother, let's have a grate fire and read," than to be asked to speak before some club, A mother par excellence is hard to compete with.