[Vol24 | March 1937 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Appreciation for Value Moore]

Appreciation for Value Received 
By Hattie Miller Moore Relief Society Magazine. The magazine has always been very welcome in my home, but during the last few months that I have been far from my Utah home the day has come to be a red letter day that brings my magazine. Eagerly I turn the pages, thrilled as I do so in anticipation of the enjoyment in store. I notice with joy and pride that one of the foremost contributions bears the name of a friend from our stake at home. Then I turn the pages on through the lesson department to the report of our late magazine drive. I note the long list of names of our sisters from different stakes and missions of Zion; what a band of missionaries working toward the same objective, to get our fine magazine into more homes. The magnitude of its circulation is so great, going as it does to all parts of the world.
There are not words to tell, and no way to measure, the far reaching influence for good that this fine publication carries into the lives of the daughters of Zion.
Trees mail brought the IN rather a reminiscent mood, my mind travels backward over the years so rich with memories of Relief Society work. I truly feel especially blest, in that during the last sixteen years I have had the very great honor and pleasure of working as an executive officer in three different ward organizations, and as a member on two Relief Society Stake Boards. As I look back over these happy busy years, so rich in experience to me, it seems that all along the way the Relief Society Magazine has stood as a guide to point the way, not only in lesson material, but also as a real spiritual guide, with its high ideals, to a more perfect life. What A contribution to my memory book are the friendships of those many fine women with whom I have labored. To me it is like a rosary of rare gems, as I count them o'er, their different personalities each with its fine individual charms, shine with beauty.
What a rosary; God bless them all.
What other woman's organization in the whole world today can bring into the lives of its members the rich rewards that we, as Relief Society women enjoy.
Would that our dearly beloved prophet could have looked into the future and seen its growth; could have seen its influence on so many lives, not only in relieving human distress but also the testimonies gained by those who are called to carry the work, surely a marvelous work and a wonder, his spirit must hover near and inspire our wise leaders who constitute the general board of our Relief Society, for only through inspiration could they so efficiently carry on the great work. MY grandmother, Elmira Pond Miller, was a member of the first Relief Society of the Church. I loved to listen to the interesting stories of those hard days. She, like many other brave mothers, was driven from her comfortable home in Nauvoo by an angry mob. She was given one hour to pack her little family and what food, clothing, and bedding she could get into one wagon, leaving her dearly loved home with its warm fire burning in the fireplace, and all her household treasures.
Among her bedding were two big feather beds.
These beds 164 were afterwards emptied, and from the bed ticking shirts were made to be used to help clothe the boys in the Mormon Battalion.
Surely her heart was full of the true spirit of Relief Society work, which is one of true service.
Dear little grandmother I love her memory. TODAY as I turn the pages of my magazine, my heart overflows with thankfulness and appreciation RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for the many joys and blessings it has added to my life. May our Heavenly Father continue to inspire and bless dear Sister Robison and every member of her board, that through their able leadership our Relief Society work may go steadily onward and upward with our beloved magazine going before as a beacon light to show the way.