[Vol24 | March 1937 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Happenings Cannon]

Verse by Della Adams Leitner. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon MARCH Kindnesses freely bestowed are the joy of life and the only riches one takes into eternity. Dk. MAGDA de SPUR, of Budapest, is giving a course of lectures in the United States on comparative conditions of women in the different nations. She laments the fact that today Hungarian women have fewer privileges than they had in the 13th and 14th centuries. Then, they were permitted to serve in their upper legislative house. Dr. MAGNA de Spur said: "You American women, of all others, are treated more like human beings." MME. HETTIE DYHRENFURTH holds the world's record among women for mountain climbing.
Last year with her husband she received the Olympic gold medal for the best mountaineering, after their ascent of the Himalaya, "Throne of the Gods." MRS. OSA JOHNSON, deprived forever of the companionship of her valiant husband, keeps up her wonted courage, and in her convalescence from the injuries received in the plane accident, is planning a return to explorations in the jungles. MRS. PATRICK CAMPBELL, erstwhile actress, still beautiful and golden voiced, entertains her friends with readings from her favorite plays and her new book on "Hollywood." LUELLA FERRIN SHARP, one of Zion's sweetest singers, died the last of January. She will be remembered by thousands for her generous bestowal of her gift of song. HELEN HOWE, a new and brilliant monologuist, unlike her contemporary, Cornelia Otis Skinner, uses no scenery, no makeup, no changes of costume beyond a casual scarf, or fan, for a touch of color, yet her "Characters and Caricatures" are living presentations of types and circumstances. DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP and Mrs. Susannah T. Robison, two notable Utah mothers, celebrated their 90th birthdays recently.
Both still enjoy their Church and social activities. MRS. REBECCA N. CUTLER and Mrs, Roseltha Hyde Woolf, two notable Relief Society stake presidents, died in the late winter. MARTHA ABBA, of Milan, Italy, is one of the true dramatic artists like Katharine Cornell who has never succumbed to Hollywood gold.
Pirandello has dedicated his two last plays to her. JOSEPHINE LAWRENCE'S new novel, "The Sound of Running Feet," is an interesting study of present day sociological problems but like her other novels, it fails to solve them; and yet, who can? PEARL BUCK'S last two books, "The Exile," and "Fighting Angel," like Alice Hobart's "Yang and Yim," treat of missionary life among the Chinese.
They are true stories of her mother and father thrillingly and wonderfully told.
Notes to Reorganizations AMONG the most recent reorganizations in our Stake Relief Societies are the Duchesne and West Jordan.
News of this type always brings with it a certain pang of regret, for in the years of devoted service given by the fine Stake workers a very strong bond is established between the sisterhood of Stake Presidents and the General Board of Relief Society. New Presidents are always welcomed into the fold, and fine cooperation follows, but those who have served for so long and so faithfully never lose their place in the hearts of their co-workers. At the Quarterly Conference held in Duchesne November 21, 1936, Sister Evelyn C.
Moffitt was released. Sister Moffitt has served in the organization for the past twenty-eight years, first as President of the Boneta Ward, when the Ward was organized; later she was counselor to Sister Holgate in the old Duchesne Stake, and on June 20, 1920, when the Duchesne and Roosevelt Stakes were divided, Sister Moffitt was chosen as President of Duchesne Stake. The position she has filled faithfully and well until the last conference.
Quoting from an account coming from her own locality: "During this period of time she has endeared herself to all of the officers of the Stake and Wards in which she has labored. Her life has been an inspiration, a ray of sunshine and hope to all who have met her. Her home in Summer is a flower garden bursting with beauty and fragrance from early Summer until late Fall; even in the Winter her home is filled with flowers. It is small wonder that when or wherever we meet her her countenance the Field beams with hope, love and charity that make us forget our cares and we look to that which is bigger and better in life." Sister Margaret M.
Pace succeeds Sister Moffitt as President, and the best wishes of the Relief Society General Board go to both sisters. HE West Jordan Stake Relief Society was reorganized Sunday, January 10, 1937, at the regular Union Meeting. Sister Mary J. Pixton, who was chosen Stake President May 22, 1927, was released.
This was made necessary due to her health which has failed for some time.
During the ten years of Sister Pixton's Presidency she has brought to her work a spirit of service and devoted self-sacrifice. The General Board has greatly appreciated the fine cooperation which they have always found in her, and in her retirement the sincere wish is expressed that her health may be completely restored, and that she may live to bless Relief Society with her service for many years yet to come. Sister Evelyn Neilsen, former President of the Riverton Second Ward was chosen to succeed Sister Pixton, and we are very sure that a bright future is in store for this Stake. Daughters' Day T the Presidents' Breakfast at April Conference last year, it was decided by unanimous vote to establish a day in Relief Society in which the mothers might be honored and the daughters brought to see the possibilities and the beauty in Relief Society.