[Vol24 | March 1937 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Secretary]

Notes from the Field Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary  TWIN GROVE'S WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, YELLOWSTONE STAKE Yellowstone Stake HE above picture is that of the officers of the Relief Society in the Twin Groves Ward. This was taken at the close of the seventeenth of March celebration last year. The picture has very special significance to Relief Society as it is so fine a blending of the more mature sisters, with their gentle, sweet faces, expressing the spirit of Relief Society, and the large number of young women who are interested in carrying on the work which has been so well accomplished by their mothers. It is this spirit of youth, seasoned and guided by life experience, that makes the Relief Society able to be the great power for good which we find it in our Stakes. Panguitch Stake N September, 1936, a radio program was given by the new Panguitch Stake Relief Society board honoring the retiring President and her board members. The material considered was the life of President Elizabeth Henderson, from birth until she retired as President of the Panguitch Stake Relief Society. Each Ward in the Stake participated, after which a tribute to the retiring officers was read. This tribute was presented in the form of a poem by Sister Eleanor Bruhn. The first stanza had for its special theme Service; the second, the fidelity to the lesson work; third, fellowship in Relief Society and service to the Lord; fourth, devoted particularly 

  CORNISH WARD, BENSON STAKE to "Aunt Lizzie" as the President was familiarly known; and in all of this the development made possible through Relief Society was expressed.
Special attention was called to the unselfishness of the President, and following the tribute to Sister Henderson each one of her board members was honored by a special stanza suggested by her predominant qualities. The whole poem was an expression of love and honor for those who had carried the work so successfully during the past, and it breathed hope and faith for the new officers. A birthday cake with fifteen candles and gifts for each of the retiring members were presented to the board.
After the serving of light refreshments the delightful entertainment came to a close. Benson Stake THE above picture is a most interesting group of sisters known as the Relief Society Birthday Club. A very delightful custom has grown up in the Cornish Ward of Benson Stake intended to do honor to the sisters whose lives are well advanced, and who have given years of service in Relief Society work. A party is held for each member on or near the date of her birthday.
There is a committee appointed from the Ward Relief Society which looks after all the details, except refreshments, which are planned by the Visiting Teachers in the particular district where the honored guest resides. The Teachers and Executive Officers of the Ward supply the materials. It has been a real pleasure to the NOTES FROM THE FIELD TUTTLE WARD, IDAHO STAKE sisters to perform this labor of love, and a great means of increasing the sociability in the Ward. Idaho Stake "THE above picture represents the Relief Society of the Tuttle Ward in Idaho Stake.
These sisters have made a very enviable record in Relief Society activity.
Among such was the idea of securing subscriptions for the Relief Society Magazine in order to achieve the one hundred percent.
Many of the sisters could not afford to take the Magazine, so a plate supper and dance was held. The members of the Relief Society furnished the materials for the supper, and helped prepare it. The proceeds of this were then used to subscribe for the Magazine. In this way the sisters earned their subscription and went over the top. In the Church Security program more than nine thousand cans of fruits and vegetables were provided.
Another very splendid accomplishment was the clinic which was held for children from thirteen to eighteen years of age.
Tonsils and adenoids were given attention, and more than two hundred and sixteen patients have been aided. Twin Falls Stake WORD comes from the Twin Falls Stake of a very successful program which was carried through in the various Wards as a Ward Conference program. At this time the President made her report, giving as the objective of Relief Society to help all mothers that each may be an inspiration in her home. The class leaders were willing and ready to give to the sisters the benefit of their study that their lives may be enriched.
Then follows a detailed statement of the objective of the Theology lesson, as quoted from the report, and just how the work may be treated the first Tuesday.
This is followed by the Work and Business program, the aim of which is to create a sisterly feeling and a cooperative spirit by working together and exchanging ideas and lending a helping hand for the relief of the more unfortunate.
This is followed by the Literary Lesson on the third 

  CHARACTERS IN DRAMATIZATION OF QUEEN ESTHER LA VERKIN WARD, ZION PARK STAKE Tuesday. The subject is Biographies, the story of real people, their struggles, their hopes and dreams and accomplishments. There is nothing more stimulating than contact with a truly great personality. This is followed by the Social Service on the fourth Tuesday. Social service is the service to society, and the responsibility of Relief Society in carrying forth its fine work. Each lesson discussed the different responsibilities to children, home, community, State and Nation. The musical director senses her responsibility, saying: "Music is a sacred, a divine God-like thing given to man by Christ to lift our hearts up to God and make us feel something of the glory and the beauty of God, and of all that He has made." This is followed by a statement of the history of music as it has been sponsored in Relief Society. The Magazine Agent gives her very fine statement in securing subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine, showing how the sisters cannot afford to be without it, as it is their means of spiritual and mental development, Zion Park Stake DURING the latter part of last year a very delightful entertainment was sponsored by the LaVerkin Ward of the Zion Park Stake. Among other activities was the Visiting Teachers' Convention which was held at Springdale in June, and the above picture shows the characters as they were presented in the dramatization of Queen Esther. There was an original song which was given at this time, the words composed by Carmilla Judd, and the music by Mildred Sanders. Lyman Stake A VERY excellent report of the Lyman Stake Relief Society day was sent to the office. Relief Society members from all the Wards of the Stake were in attendance, many of the sisters coming a distance of over one hundred miles to be in attendance. The first meeting began at 10:30. This took the form of a general assembly where the President, Sister Martha Field, gave a report of the year's work. This was supplemented by some of the officers who gave accounts of A RELIEF SOCIETY WORKER particular activities. Notable among these was the fine work of the Singing Mothers, who had practiced some of the songs suggested by the General Committee, and had learned these and furnished their beautiful music. Every Ward in the Stake had a part in the exhibit of all kinds, which included embroidery, cut work, crocheting, knitting, tatting, flowers made from paper and wood fibre, quilts of many designs, braided, woven and hooked rugs, luncheon sets, layettes and hand-painted pictures of various kinds, too numerous to mention, made a display long to be remembered. In addition to the exhibition of finished work a demonstration of rugs from bias strips of woolen material, crocheted with carpet warp, was given by Mrs. Hannah 177
Blackner. This rug has the appearance of chenile, and is very beautiful. At noon a delicious luncheon, served cafeteria style, was provided for all the guests, and' at two o'clock there was a re-assembling of the sisters when a demonstration in Magazine binding was given by trained leaders. This useful art was greatly appreciated as it enables the sisters to take proper care of their magazines and repair books which may need such service. A dance in the evening concluded the fine day's activities, and all felt that it had been one of the most successful ever held in the Lyman Stake. The credit for this was undoubtedly due to the Stake President, her Board and the fine cooperation of the Wards.