[Vol24 | March 1937 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Field]

We have heard from many quarters that this day was most successfully celebrated, but we wish to correct what seems to be an erroneous NOTES TO THE FIELD impression as to the name. We do not wish to have what might be confusing with other names and days in other organizations, so the name chosen for this particular day in Relief Society is "Daughters' Day."
April was selected as the time for the observance of Daughters' Day, as it is the natal month of former President Clarissa S. Williams, who has given more daughters to the world than any other General Relief Society President. The exact date, however, is not as important as the observance. The Stakes are at liberty to choose a time in the Spring or early Summer when they can have the most successful celebration, keeping in mind the honor to our beloved President. Literary Department IN response to numerous requests for reading material, the following list is suggested: "Joseph Smith—An American Prophet"—John Henry Evans. "Charles C. Rich"—John Henry Evans. "Grandmother Brown's Hundred Years"—Harriet Connor Brown. "Audubon'—Constance Rourke. "The Proselyte'—Susan Ertz. "Twenty Years at Hull House" —Jane Addams. "Jane Addams"—J. W. Linn, "My Friend, Julia Lathrop'— Jane Addams. "North to the Orient" —Ann Morrow Lindbergh. "My Garden of Memory"—Kate Douglas Wiggin. "A Backward Glance"'—Edith Wharton. "Take it Easy'—-Walter Pitkin. "An American Doctor's Odyssey"—Victor Heiser, M. D. "Actions and Reactions'—Roger W. Babson. "The Exiles"—Pearl Buck. 171 "Books as Windows'—Mary Lamberton Becker. "Microbe Hunters''—Paul de Kruif. "Men Against Death'—Paul de Kruif. "They Lived: A Story of the Brontes." "Red Mother"'—Frank A. Linderman. "The Prairie President"—Raymond Warren. "Schumann Heink"—The Last of the Titans'"—Mary Lawton. "The Son of Man'—Emil Ludwig. "The Good Earth'—Pearl Buck. "Henry Van Dyke. Biography"— Tertuis Van Dyke.: "Companionable Books'?—Henry Van Dyke. "Little Journeys to the Homes of Famous People'"-——-Elbert Hubbard. "Through Memories Halls'"—Orson F, Whitney. "An American Idyll'—Cordelia S. Parker. "He Knew Lincoln'—Ida M. Tarbell. "Giants in the Earth'—O. E. Rolvaag. "The Book Nobody Knows"— Bruce Barton. "Larry'—The John Day Company. "The Blue Flower,'—Henry Van Dyke. "The Prophet'—Gibraum. Theology Department HE present Theological lessons— the study of "The Ministry of The Savior" — are meeting with great favor and it is said the classes can scarcely wait for the month to pass, because of the interest felt in this much told but ever new story.
Neither is this surprising, for where is there a subject so broad 172 and tense; so full of absorbing interest and dramatic situations. It isa story of a life, so brief it can be written by the apostles in less than thirty pages, and yet so full of living values it can be read forever. The teachings of the Savior, so simply, and yet so beautifully drawn, from the depths of social economics to the heights of spiritual furors touch alike the heart of the child and the mind of the sage.
Knowledge gained from this study opens the door of the heart and causes one to more clearly valuate and interpret life's problems. It can scarcely help to awaken a desire to serve more nobly, to live more truly, and to judge more kindly.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
It is quite natural and in order that these lessons should be followed by testimony bearing, and what rich experiences are brought forth when the soul is charged with the divine spirit, One need not go afar for wondrous or miraculous happenings, for each day brings its own wonders and miracles. True there are in the Church many instances of the manifestations of the holy spirit, and answers to the prayers of faith. Life is full of the goodness and the wisdom of the Lord, to testify of these things and of the joy the gospel brings, strengthens one in faith, and hope, and charity. "Blessed are they that keep his testimonies, and that seek him with the whole heart."