MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN Notes from the Field Southern States — Cincinnati Relief Society. The Relief Society in the Cincinnati branch was organized January 18, 1920. The society has its own assembly rooms in rear of and connected with the hall used for general Officers and some members of Cincinnati Relief Society. 648 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE church services. The rooms, which are also used for Sunday school purposes, have been neatly furnished by the society. Meetings are held every other Thursday evening and are well attended. The lessons given in the Relief Society "Magazine" are followed, and other topics of interest and instruction are considered. During its short existence the society has made forty-nine visits to sick members and nonmembers. The aim of the society has been to create a more neighborly feeling among the saints, to bring them closer together socially, as well as spiritually. Through regular monthly donations by members, sales and special parties, this branch has raised $65.52;  $38.50 has been spent to furnish the Relief Society rooms. Mrs. Christine Anderson is the president of this energetic branch. California Mission. On August 22, 1920, the Relief Society of Santa Monica Bay was reorganized. Mrs. A. Snyder, who has served as president for the past two years, was honorably released on account of ill health. She expects to go to Honolulu in the near future. Mrs. Snyder is a woman of sterling worth, and is much beloved and respected by all. The following officers were appointed: Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze, formerly of Salt Lake, President;  Priscilla H. Claredge and Birdie S. Harding, counsellors;  Miss Jessie Woolley, secretary;  Mary S. Houtz, corresponding secretary;  Elizabeth H. Brummett, treasurer. Meetings are held every Tuesday at 2 p. m. in the Masonic temple. Central States Mission.  Tri-City Relief Society. In the Tri-City, which consists of the cities of Moline, Illinois;  Rock Island, Illinois, and Davenport, Iowa, a Relief
OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 649 Society has been organized. The members of the organization are very earnest and energetic in their work, and are making a great effort to have this society one of the best in the mission. The testimony meetings have been especially successful. Portneuf Stake. A survey was recently made in four of the towns of Bannock county, Idaho, by the Idaho Farm Bureau, assisted by the Relief Society;  Mrs. Dicy W. Henderson, president of the Portneuf stake, accompanying and assisting Dr. Sprague and Miss Pazandak. One hundred seventy children were examined. Of these, only 70 were in normal condition, while 100 needed treatment. Among the physical findings were: 55 with enlarged and infected tonsils;  28 with enlarged ear glands;  40 with bad teeth. Other findings were defective hearing, eye trouble, skin eruption, nervous conditions, heart trouble, and spinal curvature. Seventy-one children were found to be underweight. It is the intention of the Farm Bureau to follow up this survey with clinics and with sixmonth classes in feeding and caring for children. Blaine Stake. Through the co-operation of the Blaine stake Relief Society with the Idaho Anti-Tuberculosis Society and the University of Idaho Extension Division, the following work has been accomplished in the interest of "better health" : In May the Relief Society secured the services of Miss Ebba M. Dupe, field nurse for the Idaho Anti-Tuberculosis Association, who examined the children of the community and found a large per cent of them underweight, enough to warrant special nutrition work being done;  also enough children needing tonsil and adenoid operations to warrant nose and throat clinics being held. This work was followed up by special lectures on nutrition by Miss Ada Erwin. field worker for the University of Idaho Extension Division. At the urgent request of the Relief Society of Carey, the Idaho Anti-Tuberculosis Association sent Miss Bertha G. Wilson, a public health nurse, who had just finished n special course in nutrition at Teachers' college. Columbia, to Blaine county, to demonstrate the type of work which a county nurse can do. She labored in the various communities from June 15 to August 15. The state tuberculosis association paid Miss Wilson's salary and transportation expenses, and the Relief Society of Carey entertained her in their homes when in Carey. 
 Under her supervision, the nose and throat clinic was held in Carey, July 30-31, and August 1. Dr. A. L. Heine, a nose and throat specialist, of Boise, assisted by Dr. Higgs, of Boise, and Dr. Snyder, of Carey, was in charge. There were 42 cases, mostly children operated upon. A hospital was improvised in the home of President Joseph S. Cooper, where the patients received nursing care from Miss Wilson, and Mrs. Bennett, of Boise, and Miss Huish, Miss Sparks, and Mrs. Powers, of Carey. All the patients came through in good condition. The success of the clinic was due largely to the splendid co-operation of the citizens with the doctors and nurses. The following report is a summary of the work of the public health nurse in Carey;  many services of miscellaneous character are not mentioned: Fourteen lectures on home hygiene and care of the sick;  12 children in nutrition classes;  61 children examined;  42 nose and throat operations;  several meetings with the women of the community. In addition to this, numerous home visits were made. Carey ward, of the Blaine stake, donated $27.40 to the playground association. This ward distributed $7 worth of bulletins on sex education. Union Stake. The Union stake Relief Society has just sent to the general office a check for $307.50, to be turned over to the Salt Lake temple. The chief recorder will arrange for several days or a week to be set apart for Union stake, when official services will be arranged for. This will amount to 615 days spent in temple work. This is a most excellent showing, especially in view of the fact that the present Relief Society membership of this stake is only 179, and the number of Latter-day Saint families in the whole stake totals only 355, and shows what can be accomplished by energetic officers and faithful women in a far-away stake. Granite Stake. At a recent union meeting in Granite stake, there was the following representation: stake officers and board members, 16;  13 presidents, 22 counsellors, 9 secretaries, 5 choristers, 4 organists, 6 aids, 115 district teachers, 16 class leaders, and 21 members and visitors;  total, 227. It is special gratifying to note the splendid attendance by district teachers. Wayne Stake. In August, 1920, the Relief Societies of the Wayne stake joined together for a picnic and outing to Fish Lake, under OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 651 the supervision of the stake board, and Elder William H. Morrell, of the high council, who supervises the work oi the Relief Society. The party left Loa at 10 a. m. by auto, returning at night. The stake presidency accompanied the excursionists. There were 165 in the party, all of whom enjoyed the splendid company and the opportunity furnished for social relaxation. Alberta Stake, On August 8, Alberta stake was reorganized. Mrs. Lydia J. Brown, who has served faithfully and well for many years in the capacity of president, was released on account of change of residence. Mrs. Annie D. Snow, first counsellor to Mrs. Brown, was appointed president of the stake. Other officers and board members were sustained as follows: Jane W. Bates, Mary E. Smith, counsellors;  Lavina Low, secretary and treasurer;  Lola S. Lamb, assistant secretary;  Mary A. Leadbetter, chorister;  Ida A. Brown, organist;  Sarah B. Daines, Catherine Pilling. Mary A. Anderson, Rose Woolf, Nellie Pitcher, Talitha Carlson, Dora Jacobs, board members. Pocatello Stake. Pocatello stake was reorganized on August 22. Mrs. Emily Gladwin was honorably released, with appreciation for her splendid services, and Mrs. Martha E. Pugmire was named as the new president of the stake. Kanab Stake. Kanab stake was reorganized on September 5. Mrs. Artemisia Seegmiller, long and well known as a devoted Relief Society worker, found it necessary to resign from her position as president. Mrs. Sarah L. Robinson was appointed to succeed Mrs. Seegmiller, with the following group of women as assistants: Ellen M. Hoyt, Ada Judd, counsellors;  Amanda C. Pugh, secretary and treasurer;  Emma G. Woolley, honorary member;  Hannah H. Esplin, Abigail Cox, Kerzia Esplin, and Vinnie F. Jepson, aids. Panguitch Stake. Panguitch stake was divided on August 29, the division to be known as Panguitch and Garfield stakes. Mrs. Sarah E. Cameron was retained as president of the Relief Sopiety of the Panguitch stake. Mrs. Sarah L. Larson was appointed president of the new Garfield stake. European Miseioa. The following interesting reports have been received from the European Mission: 
 Number of Relief Society organizations: British mission, 44;  Swiss and German mission, 31;  Swedish mission, 11;  Netherlands, 8;  Scandinavian, 14. Total enrollment in Relief Societies: British, 672;  Swiss and German, 1,003;  Swedish, 162;  Netherlands, 164;  Scandinavian, 353. Number of officers and teachers: British, 248;  Swiss and German, 227;  Swedish, 72;  Netherlands, 41;  Scandinavian, 149. Average enrollment in each society: British, 17;  Swiss and German, 32;  Swedish, 15;  Netherlands, 20. Number of meetings held: British, 1,186;  Swiss and German, 776;  Swedish, 130;  Netherlands, 347;  Scandinavian, 466. Number of regular visits made by Relief Society teachers: British, 1,704;  Swiss and German, 4,277;  Swedish, 730;  Netherlands, 1,068. Number of special visits to the sick: British, 1,525;  Swiss and German, 1,300;  Swedish, 304;  Netherlands, 410;  Scandinavian, 254. Number of families assisted: British, 234;  Swiss and German, 360;  Swedish, 27;  Netherlands, 104;  Scandinavian, 121. Number of other persons assisted: British, 84;  Swiss and German, 119;  Swedish, 27;  Netherlands, 19;  Scandinavian, 66. Number of articles made at work meetings: British, 1,075;  Swiss and German, 949;  Netherlands, 412;  Scandinavian, 5. Paid for charitable purposes: British, $969.47;  Swiss and German, $3,373.64;  Swedish, $235.41;  Netherlands, $367.34;  Scandinavian, $1,119.51. Franklin-Oneida. Mrs. Alveretta Engar, chairman of social service work in the Oneida stake, writes as follows: "The need of social service work was made apparent to our Relief Society women by study of the lessons in the Social Service Department of the "Magazine." These lessons have been a very efficient means of educating the people along the lines of community welfare work. The first work undertaken was to petition the various school boards to provide equipped playgrounds with trained supervisors. In the same petition, we asked that a doctor and nurse be provided to examine a-nd give medical aid when necessary to every OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 653 school child. As a result, much work has been done toward getting playgrounds in shape during the summer. The second request is under consideration by the various school boards. "During the summer, the combined social service committees of the Oneida and Franklin stakes, called upon the physicians of Preston, the county superintendent of schools, and the superintendent of the Preston schools, and the mayor, to co-operate with them in improving the health conditions among the children. Drs. Allen R. Cutler, Jr., and Curtis Bland very generously consented to have health clinics established in each of their offices, where they made a half price rate for all school children, for operations for tonsils and adenoids. The county superintendent and the city superintendent consented to assume the expenses of a nurse to assist with the clinics. The mayor and city council gave it their hearty endorsement, and assisted with other expenses incurred in establishing this temporary clinic. "These committees recently instituted a campaign for a cleaner town, calling on the mayor and city council to take the matter up of enforcing city ordinances regarding expectorating on the sidewalks and in public places and regarding unsightly weeds on the streets. We also enlisted the interest of the Preston Commercial Club, who led out in a clean-up day movement. The day closed with a community "sing" and street dance. The stake board sold hot meat pies, cake and cocoa, the proceeds of which were used to assist a nurse who has registered for a three years' hospital course. "Some of our wards are doing very fine family welfare work. The Mink Creek Association assisted relatives in sending to the Latter-day Saints hospital a mother who needed operation for tuberculosis of the bone. She has since returned home and is able to carry on her former duties in the home. The Banida ward is sewing and fitting out with school clothing a family of children who are left without a mother." Parowan Stake. In the death of Mrs. Sarah Ann Adams, the Relief Society of Parowan has sustained a great loss. By her countless deeds of charity and kindness, Mrs. Adams endeared herself to all who knew her. She spent the greater part of her very useful life as a worker in the Church, beginning with the primary association, and working later with the Relief Society. In no sense did she live for herself alone, but for all man that was kind. in Her'sher. was a life of giving to others the very best of all James H. Anderson. Turks and French continued at warfare in Asia Minor in September. Famine in China cost many thousands of Hives in August and September, The British in Mesopotamia had several serious clashes '.n September, with native insurrectionists. Twenty thousand cholera cases, resulting in 9,000 deaths, is the summer report of Korea for 1920. James M. Cox, Democratic candidate for president of the United States, visited Utah on September 15. France is threatened with labor troubles like Italy's in the near future, to the great worry of her statesmen. A gale along the Louisiana coast of the Gulf of Mexico, on September 23, did great property damage. There was no loss of life. Zion Park, southern Utah, was dedicated on September 16, under government auspices. President Heber J. Grant presided over the services. The United States is threatened with a great disease epidemic in 1921, according to September's announcement of Health Commissioner R. S. Copeland, of New York.