[Vol33 | September 1946 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Faith Is a Chapter]
they  had  little  faith  in  their  inform- 
er, no  preparations  for  defense  had 
been  made.  Two  men,  George  Mc- 
Bride  and  James  Miller,  were  killed; 
several  men  were  wounded;  and 
most  of  the  cattle  were  driven  away. 
After    three    days    of    intermittent 
riiuluK  1  apii    Cui 
L  '  'II.  IULTi 
RANGE  CATTLE  IN  IDAHO

THE  LEMHI  MISSION,  IDAHO 
589 
Photograph    Courtesy   Idaho    tjtate   Historical    Society 
THREE  PIONEERS  OF  LEMHI  VALLEY 
Left  to  right:     John  E.  Reese;  R.  B.  Herndon;  Judge  Shurtliff 
fighting,  the  missionaries  were 
called  to  a  meeting  to  determine 
their  course.  As  a  result,  two  men, 
B.  H.  Watts  and  E.  J.  Bernard,  were 
sent  for  help. 
All  this  happened  at  a  time  when 
the  threat  of  Johnston's  Army  lay 
like  a  blight  against  the  security  of 
the  saints.  President  Young  decided 
to  recall  all  Mormons  living  beyond 
the  bounds  of  Utah  Territory.  He 
sent  north  a  company  of  150 
men  to  the  rescue  of  the  Salmon 
mission.  The  men  reached  the 
fort,  March  21,  1858.  The  settlers 
had  already  made  preparations  for 
their  return  to  Utah.  It  is  said  that 
Chief  Snagg  and  his  men  wept  tears 
when  they  saw  the  company  leave. 
The  company  reached  Brigham 
City  April  11,  and  there  disbanded. 
Thus  came  to  an  end  the  Fort  Lem- 
hi attempt  to  colonize  Idaho,  but 
many  of  the  colonists  later  came 
back  and  helped  develop  other  com- 
munities. 
Note:  This  material  has  been  gleaned  from  documents  and  journals  in  the  Idaho 
State  Historical  Society,  Defenbach's  History  of  Idaho,  Beall's  History  of  Southeastern 
Idaho,  from  J.  A.  Harrington,  and  from  articles  pubhshed  in  Idaho  Daily  Statesman. 
THREE  PRECIOUS  THINGS 
Mabel  Jones  Gahhott 
Thank  God  for  these  three  precious  things: 
A  needful  task  to  do,  a  child's 
Sweet  love,  an  honest  heart  that  sings.

There  Is  Still  Life 
Frances  C.  Yost 
A  
gay  wind,  in    sportive    play,  'Til  get  the  ink  right  now.    To 
frisked  the  high  tree  tops,  and  day's  the  last  day  to  take  exhibits  to 
whirled  September's  leaves  of  the  fair."     Joyce    raced    into    the 
red  and  gold,  to  welcome  in  an  In-  house, 
dian  summer.  *T11  write  it  in  the  house!"  Des- 
Dessie   Bartlett,   widowed    seven  sie  called.    Joyce,  who  was  already 
years,  sat  on  the  step  of  her  back  out   of    earshot,    didn't   hear    her 
porch.      Her    three    children,    like  mother.    Before  anyone  knew  what 
mushrooms,   clustered  around  her.  was  happening,  she  was  back  with 
All  eyes  were  on  a  finished  painting  the  inkwell  and  pen.    At  the  door 
Dessie    held    in    her    outstretched  she  ran  into  Foster, 
arms.  ''Look  out.  Sis!    Grab  that  ink!" 
"Mother,  it's    perfect!     I    never  Foster  shouted, 
really    noticed    the   beautiful   view  It  was  too  late.    The  glass  con- 
from  our  back  yard  until  you  paint-  tainer  bounced  out  of  Joyce's  tiny 
ed  this  picture,"  LaPrele,  age  twelve,  hand,  over  Bessie's  shoulder,  and 
stated  equably.  broke.     A    pool    of  jet    black  ink 
"It's  tops,  Mom.    Why,  old  Bal-  splashed  over  the  newly  finished  oil 
dy  Mountain  looks  bully!    I  wonder  painting. 
how  he  likes  his  picture  taken?  He  "The  picture!     It's  ruined!     Oh, 
seems  so  solemn  and  v^se,"  chuck-  Mother!"  wailed  LaPrele. 
led  Foster,  who  was  more  man  than  "Gosh,  Mom,  can't  we  do  some- 
boy  for  all  his  fourteen  years.  Then  thing  quick?    Won't  ink  wipe  off?" 
he  added  seriously,  "It'll  sure  take  Foster  gasped, 
the  blue  ribbon  at  the  fair!"  "I'm  afraid  not.  Son.    You  see  I 
"It's    awful    pretty,"    spoke    up  just  finished  touching  it  up  with 
Joyce,  the  youngest  of  the   three,  fresh    oils.     It    would    be    just    a 
"Please  take  it  to  the  fair,  Mommie."  smudge,"  Dessie  stated  calmly,  then 
"It  would  be  the  prize  winner  if  despair  closed  her  throat. 
I   were    the   judge,"   LaPrele   said  Joyce,  realizing  the  great  catas- 
with  emphasis.  trophe  she  had  caused,  sobbed  bro- 
"A  fair  judge  studies  all  entries,"  kenheartedly. 
laughed  Dessie.     "But  if  you  chil-  Dessie,  who  had  laid  the  ruined 
dren  think  it's  good,  we'll  just  enter  painting  on  the  lawn  at  her  feet,  put 
it  and  find  out."  Dessie  beamed  on  an  arm  around  Joyce  to  quiet  her 
her  brood.    "It  does  have  good  bal-  sobs.     "I  didn't  have  a  chance  of 
ance,  and  the  perspective  is  perfect,  winning  anyway,  Joyce  dear.    Why, 
if  I  may  say  so.    It  is  colorful;  the  Mrs.  Swartz  studied  art  in  the  East 
little  stream  and  the  quaint  bridge  and  she  is  entering  a  beautiful  scene 
add  a  touch,  somehow.    I  might  as  of  Niagara.    Then   VonVleet,   the 
well  put  my  initials  in  the  corner  high  school  art  teacher,  has  a  lovely 
with  ink  and  call  it  finished."  appleblossom       sketch.        Mother 
Page  590

THERE  IS  STILL  LIFE 
591 
doesn't  care,  really.  We'll  go  to  the 
fair  just  the  same,  and  you  kiddies 
will  probably  all  get  ribbons.  How's 
that?"  Dessie  wiped  the  tears  from 
Joyce's  eyes. 
Inwardly,  Dessie  was  heartsick. 
She  had  worked  at  odd  moments  all 
summer  to  perfect  her  painting.  She 
felt  certain  it  might  have  been  a 
prize  winner.  All  during  the  day 
she  found  herself  fighting  a  hard 
battie  to  conceal  her  deep  disap- 
pointment. For  the  children  must 
never  know  how  much  entering  the 
art  exhibit  had  meant  to  her. 
She  busied  herself,  supervising 
the  children  as  they  prepared  their 
entries  for  the  fair.  LaPrele  pressed 
her  4-H  dress  and  made  certain 
there  were  no  cat's  whiskers  sticking 
out  on  the  French  seams.  Foster 
brushed  the  fur  on  the  two  rabbits 
he  was  entering.  Joyce  picked  and 
trimmed  the  largest,  firmest  head  of 
lettuce,  and  washed  and  bunched 
carrots  from  her  4-H  garden. 
When  the  children  left  in  the 
afternoon  to  make  their  entries,  Des- 
sie could  hold  back  her  disappoint- 
ment no  longer.  She  flung  herself 
into  the  deep,  soft  chair  that  had 
been  Roger's.  She  had  thought  all 
day  if  she  could  only  be  alone  for  a 
good  cry,  her  pent-up  feelings  would 
wash  away.  Now,  somehow,  tears 
would  not  come.  Roger's  dear  old