[Vol33 | September 1946 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Optional Lessons in Lieu Lyon]

Optional Lessons in Lieu of Literature THE GOSPEL AS A WAY OF LIFE Lesson 3
Faith Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, December 17, 1946 OUR children, ranging in age from four to nine years, were downhearted. It seemed to them that all the joy in life had suddenly ended.
Their mother, a normally healthy woman, lay in bed, suffering physical pain and the discomfort of a high temperature.
Father was at work, and the children, frightened by the illness that had come upon their mother, were in despair.
Then the nine-year-old hustled the three younger ones into the back bedroom and said, "Let's ask Heavenly Father to make Mom better."
Kneeling down, the oldest one prayed fervently to God for the 644 restoration of their mother.
When she had finished her petition to the Almighty, she said to the others, "Mama will soon be well again."
Returning to the mother's bedroom, they found their mother greatly improved. "Mama," said their spokesman, "Father in heaven is going to make you better. We prayed, and I know you'll soon be well."
Within an hour she was about her household cares again, all signs of fever and pain having disappeared.
This story is one of simple faith that has been duplicated many times in the lives of faithful Christians. Of course, the exercise of faith has not always met with such instant spiritual manifestations, for reasons which are beyond our understanding, but faith is the first principle of the gospel and it is imperative that we develop our faith to the utmost. In the eleventh chapter of Hebrews is found one of the greatest expositions of faith that is contained in the Bible. It defines faith as "... The substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen."
Then the writer makes the declaration that through faith the worlds were framed by the word of God (Heb. 11:1, 3).
From these declarations it becomes evident that faith is a principle of great power and constructive action. The following explanation of the nature of faith is very descriptive: Faith is a conviction, an attitude of mind, which is not certain knowledge and yet is an assurance far stronger than mere belief, hope or desire. We have a knowledge of things we have already experienced. Our knowledge relates largely to the past, including, of course,  immediate past. Faith, on the other hand, is pointed toward the future, toward the possible, toward the unexperienced or larger experience. A man of faith is hopeful, optimistic, courageous, adventurous, confident and forward-looking.
Faith is like a searchlight casting its beam far ahead of its present position (Lowell L. Bennion, The Religion Of the Latter-day Saints, p. 115).
When the Prophet Joseph Smith was listing the beliefs of the Latter-day Saints, he wrote, "We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are, First, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ...."
This was not a mere chance statement. It was a declaration of the prime importance of faith in the life of an individual. It was placed first because upon one's faith depends one's progression.
Without faith, one neither seeks to find God, nor attempts to make his life conform to the will of God. It thus becomes the starting point from which one progresses from a condition of ignorance of God and his commandments, to one in which the saving power of God is recognized. So important is the element of faith during mortality, that it is listed as one of the primary purposes for restoring the gospel to the earth.
Perhaps the most detailed discussion of the nature of faith and how it can be developed and used is found in the Book of Mormon, Alma 32:16-43.
Alma states that "...
Faith is not to have a perfect knowledge of things; therefore if ye have faith ye hope for things which are not seen, which are true" (Alma 320). He then tells how one may develop faith, and his teachings are valuable because they are descriptive of the method that we need to use LESSON DEPARTMENT more and more in our present-day lives. But behold, if ye will awake and arouse your faculties, even to an experiment upon my words, and exercise a particle of faith, yea even if ye can no more than desire to believe, let this desire work in you, even until ye believe in a manner that ye can give place for a portion of my word (Alma 32:27). He further likened this experimental method of developing faith to the planting of a seed, which germinates and grows to a mature plant. In similar fashion, Alma admonished his hearers to nourish religious belief until it would grow into profound faith. But if you will nourish the word... By your faith with great diligence, and with patience, looking forward to the fruit thereof, it shall take root; and behold it shall be a tree springing up into everlasting life (Alma 32:41).
When the preface to the Doctrine and Covenants was revealed, the Lord declared that because of his knowledge of the calamities that should come upon the earth, he had called Joseph Smith to instruct the inhabitants of the earth how to escape from the coming afflictions. He listed the purposes of the restoration, and one of them is stated as follows: "That faith also might increase in the earth" (Doc. And Cov. 1:21).
From this statement it is apparent that the promotion of an increase in faith was an essential goal of the restored gospel. The coming forth of the Book of Mormon, the first vision, the visitations of Moroni, the restoration of the Aaronic and the Melchizedek Priesthoods, and the many revelations on doc- 645 trine and Church government were all calculated to increase faith in the hearts of men, if they would investigate the authenticity of these events and use Alma's method of developing faith. Of primary importance in the life of anyone who wishes to gain eternal exaltation is an unwavering faith in God the Father. We must study his teachings contained in the scriptures and learn his will concerning us. We must recognize him as the Creator of the universe, and as the Father of our spirits. A second requirement concerning faith on the part of the individual is that one must have an abiding and unwavering faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. To many people this requirement appears to call for nothing more than a passive acknowledgment and a confession of belief in his saving grace. The scriptures teach us, however, that this faith must become a dynamic, intelligent thing. We must study, investigate, pray, and gain a testimony of the reality of our Father in heaven. The next -step is to change our lives in such a way that we live in harmony with the spirit of Christ, and thus strive to make our lives Christ-like.
True faith must be built upon a foundation of truth, and must be acquired through diligent study. The apostle Paul stated this doctrine | clearly in his letter to the Roman saints. He discussed the tenacious devotion with which the Jews observed the letter of their religious laws, and regretted the fact that their belief would not save them until they changed their ignorance of the truth for correct principles.
Then he said: Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they may be saved. For I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. For they being ignorant of God's righteousness, and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God (Romans 10:1-3). Paul's teaching indicates that much more than devotion is required faith must be based upon truth.
Another requirement is that we have faith in the atonement of Jesus, and his redeeming power, and in the plan of salvation.
Through this faith, we are enabled to overcome sin and forsake it.
This faith will move us to action, whereby our faith will be manifest in our improved life and conduct. The gospel teaches mankind that no one should live exclusively within himself.
Salvation is a collective ideal, designed to save all of God's children.
Faith thus includes a belief in others. It asks us to love not only our neighbors, but our enemies as well. It requires us to forgive those who trespass against us. It demands that we work unceasingly to lead those who do not believe, to have faith in the gospel plan of salvation. It asks us to serve those in need, and divide our substance with the destitute.
Nothing but an abiding faith in the Godhead and the gospel can lead men to have this great faith in others. Last, but by no means, least, we must have faith in ourselves. We must have faith that we are of divine origin, that our bodies are mortal tabernacles created by God, in which are housed his spirit children.
When a person has attained this conviction, impure thoughts and vicious habits that corrupt the soul will be shunned. The Holy Spirit may then be the constant companion of that individual, to inspire and direct in pure thoughts, clean living, unselfish devotion to the cause of the Church and unlimited service to others.
Questions and Activity Problems 1.
Assign someone to search out important verses of Alma's discussion on the nature of faith and have them read in class. 2.
List the five applications of faith that are discussed in the lesson. 3.
Under what circumstances did Christ not perform mighty works? (See Matt. 13:53-58.
Contrast with Matt. 17:14-21). 4.
Suggest that during the discussion period some of the sisters might relate the methods by which their faith grew and increased until it became a conviction. References Smith, President Joseph F., Gospel Doctrine, pages 121-123.
Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 270. Talmage, James E., Articles of Faith, pp. 96-108. Talmage, James E., Vitality of Mormonism, pp. 78-82. A Social Science The Family in the Gospel Plan NO social science lesson is printed in this issue of the Magazine as no lesson for this department is planned for the month of December, due to the holiday season.