[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: AN OLD, OLD STORY. | Author: E. B. W]

AN OLD, OLD STORY.

	This story has been told but not written,
of that I feel tolerably certain; and as I
could not from experience tell such a fine
story myself, I can only write one told to
me by a school friend a very long time ago.
	She was a famous little tory and all the
rest of us were pure, blue-blood Yankees,
but she told us such wonderful tales that
we looked upon her as a veritable fairy.
We were quite unwilling then to think
these things were all true, and yet since
those days I have many a time and oft
heard stories far more extravagant, and can
easily believe now that Pamela Kingsley
told the truth as she had heard it from her
governess about her maiden Aunt Dilli-
way with whom she lived. She was her
great aunt, the sister of her grandfather
Dilliway, who was a “royalist to the back-
bone,” Pamela told us. And really she
used to sort of queen it over us, in a way,
because she knew all about Xmas and we
barely knew the name. Aunt Dilliway lived
in Boston and her niece, Miss Pamela
Kingsley was sent up in the country to get
fresh air, new milk and the scent of wild
flowers and new-mown hay. That was
how we come to know her, and as we
adored Boston girls we all fell in love with
her before we knew she was a tory.
	Notwithstanding Pamela was from
Boston she didn’t know much more about
Yankees than we did about tories, she had
never been at school before but had a
governess at home, and as her great aunt
Dilliway was not equal to managing a
French governess and an obstinate little


[Column 1]
girl, who was also very delicate; she made
up her mind to send her into the country
for a while to her great uncle on her fath-
er’s side, Judge Kingsley. His wife had
no sympathy with girls who always wore
white muslin, laces and ruffles, and so sent
her to the school with the country girls, and
Pamela was not in the least punished. She
enjoyed it immensely, she knew she was
the best dressed girl in the school and her
city ways were very taking, but most of all
she was fond of telling what she knew in a
fantastic sort of fashion that was ever so
much better than any story book we had
ever read. One Saturday when we were
out in the woods for a ramble and had tired
ourselves climbing, the most romantic girl
in the crowd turned to Pamela and said,
“Do tell us about your Aunt Dilliway when
she was a little girl; you say she was a per-
fect beauty and a great belle in her day.”
	“Well, girls, Aunt Dilliway is so proud
that if she saw me here on the rocks spin-
ning yarns to you girls, she would have me
sent home by the first coach for Boston.
She’s old and grey now but she wears a wig
and paints her cheeks, and there’s a lovely
painting of her upstairs, and she’s even
been written about in books in London
when she was young and beautiful, and she
broke two or three men’s hearts, and then
she got her own broken.”
	“Served her right!” said two or three all
in a breath.”
	“No it didn’t,” said Pamela, “If you
knew what she suffered.”
	“How did you find out about her love
affairs?” inquired the one who had asked
for the story, and who in fact was all her
life getting people to tell her things she
meant some day to put into books.
	“Girls every one of you must promise
never to tell, for Aunt Kingsley wants a pre-
text to send me home, I know it, and if she
could find out about the things I’ve told
you girls, she would bundle me off in
double quick time.”
	Of course we all promised and then we
asked “How about the young men? tell us
about them.”
	“They all married afterwards all but one,
and he got killed, and Aunt Dilliway wears
the ring he gave her—now he’s dead, and
she has her white satin wedding dress all
trimmed with rich lace, hid away in a
cedar chest, and a long lace veil all em-
broidered in a nunnery.”
	“Oh, a nunnery! tell us about the nuns,
if there is anything mysterious we want to
find it out,” said half a dozen at once.
	The whole bevy of girls were wild to
hear about the nuns, but Pamela answered,
“My aunt didn’t know about the nuns, she
isn’t a Catholic, she’s High Church Episco-
pal, and sits every Sunday in King’s chapel
in a great, high pew, and makes me sit by
her, and I daren’t wink but I nearly fall,
asleep, and then she nudges me with her
great feather fan and whispers ‘Miss Pame-
la sit up.” ’
	“Who were your Aunt Dilliway’s beaux,
were they noblemen?”
	“They were gentlemen, one was very
courtly and handsome and brave and a fine
singer, and my aunt played the harp—the
very same one she has now up in the corner
of her boudoir covered with real tapestry.
I asked her about it one day and she said it
was an heirloom.”
	“How did you find out about all these
fine gentlemen and your great aunt’s love
stories, you say she never talks to you?”
	“Why from Belmont, the governess, you

[Column 2]
know; that’s why she was sent home to
France, and I was packed off up here to
cure me of prying into family secrets; my
aunt says she has ruined me every way,
gave me sweetmeats and all sorts of for-
bidden things, and told me the love stories
of the Dilliway family for generations back,
all of which she got hold of herself by spy-
ing, and getting into old letters in the cab-
net, the Dilliway rosewood cabinet, hun-
dreds of years old made in Switzerland.”
	“Miss Pamela tell us what about the let-
ters we don’t care for the cabinet that hid
them,” said Julia, the most curious girl in
the crowd. “What a wonderful part letters
have played in the lives of men and women
ever since the days of Jeremiah the prophet.
Letters do play the mischief, I shall never
write any myself.”
	“You’ll be the first one to do it undoubt-
edly; but Julia, you must have taken to
reading the Bible lately to know so much
about Jeremiah, but remember in those
days everything was written on parchment
and in rolls, and they were not letters car-
ried by post,” broke in Lottie Brooks.
	“No, but they made a lot of trouble, all
the same, and dreadful things came to pass
that had been written about and then hid-
den away.”
	“Girls let’s not go back to Jeremiah, its
quite enough to go back to Pamela’s Aunt
Dilliway, and if we linger much longer
we’ll have to go home without the love
story, and we all dearly love that kind of a
romance. What was in the letters that so
offended your aunt when you found it out?”
interpolated Nellie. 
	“It was a sort of disconnected history
but Belmont put this and that together, and
told me that my great aunt had to run
away to America because some one fought a
duel about her. You see she was engaged
to two or three young men at once, and
after all it wasn’t her fault, she explained
some of it to me and cried and her lips
were as pale as ashes. I never expected to
see Aunt Dilliway shed a tear, she never
cried when bad news came, not even when
any one died that she had known all her
life. She used to tremble a little and her
lips would quiver, and that was all.”
	“Then she is a real born tory is she?
What did she come here for? Was it true
that tale Belmont told about a duel? Did
your aunt own up to it?” cried the roman-
tic one of the girls.
	“It wasn’t quite true, but Harry Severn
was dead when she came over to America,
and she will never set foot on English soil
again, never.”
	“Then she ought to be an American and
not a tory. Harry Severn, was he an offic-
er of rank, brave and accomplished? I
judge so from what you told us about the
harp.”
	“Yes, he was a distinguished officer, but
Aunt Dilliway’s father made another
match for her, and he wanted to separate
her from Lieut. Severn. The family were
too poor, and he thought his daughter was
good enough to marry a duke, so he select-
ed the eldest son of a relative of a duke,
who was the heir (the duke had no children
and he was getting very old) and he was
soon to come into his inheritance. He paid
his addresses to my aunt and sort of fasci-
nated her with his elegant manners and all
that, but he didn’t touch her heart at all,
Belmont said, and then there was another
lover, a real duke in his own right, old and
had grown up daughters but no sons, and
he fairly persecuted Aunt Dilliway.”

[Column 3]
	“For goodness sake, Pamela, what was
your Aunt Dilliway’s name? She couldn’t
have been called Aunt Dilliway when she
was young.”
	“No, but she never will be called any-
thing but Miss Dilliway by people, and all
her letters come addressed to Miss Dilliway,
and I never knew she had another name
till Belmont said to me one day ‘Penelope
Dilliway,’ and I turned on her and said
‘who’s Penelope Dilliway please?’ ‘Penelope
she’s your great aunt herself.’ Before that
I had never thought about her having any
other name.”
	“Now do tell us about the three suitors
and how it all happened and she never
married either one of them. And, besides,
one day you said when your Aunt Dilliway
was a young girl they used to have gay
times at Christmas in England,” chimed in
the romantic young Miss who first asked
for the story.
	“And so they did, and I’ve heard of their
great doings and Belmont has told me
about Xmas in France, too.”
	“Well we haven’t time to go over all the
countries, finish this one story.”
	“So I will if you’ll let me, now keep
quiet. You understand there were three
men all in love with Aunt Dilliway. First
there was Harry Severn, then the young
heir-at-law, then the real duke. Two were
poor and one was rich, but Charles Plymp-
ton had ‘great expectations,’ and the Duke
of Weldmore he wanted a young wife hop-
ing to have a son.”
	“Did your aunt tell you that or did you
read it in the letters?”
	“No, Belmont told me. My aunt would
be wild with rage if she suspected I had
ever heard of it.”
	“It strikes me that your French gover-
ness ought to be sent to Halifax, but it
serves people right who set themselves up
like that, as if their children were so much
better than other peoples. I suppose that’s
toryism, but it isn’t American,” said Julia.
	“On the same principle,” said Gratia, a
very demure, little girl, “we are all sent to
this select school for girls, and simply be-
cause we are not to go with all the other
girls in the villiage, I tell you girls, its a
question of money. I heard my mother
say, ‘I shall send Gratia to a girls’ select
school as we can’t afford a governess.’ ”
	“So you are a little tory, too, are you?”
said Julia.
	“Now girls,” put in Pamela, “if you
are going to dispute about politics I shall
never finish this story and you’ll all dream
about it, and tomorrow will be Sunday, and
my aunt will make me read the Bible and
sing hymns all day, she’s a Puritan, there’s
no denying that, but she can’t take me to
meeting with her, that’s part of the bar-
gain, and uncle never goes any way. Now
where did I leave off, if you say much more
I shall not know whether I’m a tory or a
rebel.”
	“They’re both the same,” echoed two
or three at once.”
	“I am sure I don’t know where I left
off.”
	“You left off about Xmas time,” said
Jane Willis, “and that’s what we all want
to know about, I don’t care which of the three
men your aunt was in love wtth, if you
would only tell us about an English Christ-
mas in one of those great stone castles, or
large old-fashioned mansions, of which we
have so often heard yet know so little.”
	The girls were so inquisitive and inter-
rupted Pamela with questions all the way


[Column 1]
through her narrative that it is quite im-
possible after half a century to be anything
like accurate in the repetition, so I have de-
cided to tell the story myself as she told it
to us as nearly as I can remember it.
	You must imagine a dozen or more half
grown girls in short dresses with low necks
and wearing frilled pantalettes and low slip-
pers clustered around Miss Pamela, eyes
beaming with delight while she told the
love story of her great Aunt Dilliway.
AUNT DILLIWAY’S LOVE STORY.
	Penelope Dilliway was an only daughter,
and very proud of herself and her belong-
ings, had been taught all sorts of accomplish-
ments such as were considered woman’s
legitimate employment in those days, or
perhaps we should say for “fine ladies."
such as embroidery, singing, dancing and
playing the harp, especially dancing. Miss
Dilliway’s father was determined she should
marry well, and his idea of marriage was
wealth and title, one or both. His daugh-
ter, however, fell desperately in love with
a young lieutenant, a man of brilliant
parts, a fine tenor singer, and a general
favorite in society.
	Miss Dilliway resorted to all sorts of
subterfuges to deceive her irate father; and
her younger brother, (the maternal grand-
father of Miss Pamela) was her accomplice
in many well laid plots of the lovers. The
father introduced into the home the young
and fascinating heir-at-law of a dukedom,
Mr. Charles Plympton, who really had
great influence with Miss Penelope, by his
sophistry and polish, and at first Miss Dilli-
way fancied she was yielding to blind her
father to the true state of her love affairs
with the young lieutenant. But her broth-
er more quickly than herself detected the
fascination; and felt in duty bound to re-
monstrate with her saying, “You cannot
possibly be aware of your own inconstancy,
your desire to please Plympton in the mat-
ter of dress, the choice of flowers and per-
fumery, and above all your great desire to
be an expert horsewoman, all of which is
very apparent to a close observer, reveal per-
ceptibly how the matter stands. Father
speaks of it with great satisfaction at the
dinner table after you are gone, and Plymp-
ton chuckles with delight at the success at-
tending his suit. It is downright coquetry
think of it as you will, sister, I believe you
are innocent, I believe you love Harry
truly, but Plympton’s wiles and artifices
are luring you on to your own destruction.”
	When thus reproved Penelope would
weep, (she had tears for occasion then) and
declared she would never try to please
Plympton again, let him pursuade as he
might, she would give up riding much as
she enjoyed it, and remain away from balls
and pleasure parties, where she would be
likely to meet one who sought her against
her will.
	Meantime Harry Severn was away with
his regiment, but rumors reached him of
Penelope riding in the park with Plympton,
and other like rambles together, of their
dancing together more often than even
lovers were wont in those days. Goaded
beyond endurance by his fellow officers he
obtained leave of absence and hurried to
London.
	Arriving at the time of Xmas festivities
he looked up young Dilliway his true friend
who unconscious of the presence of Plymp-
ton at the hall took Harry Severn home
with him, thinking it would be an easy

[Column 2]
matter to come unannounced and surprise
his father, who though perhaps nonplussed
at first was too much the gentleman in his
own house to be rude even to an unwelcome
guest. Unfortunately he had "reckoned
without his host." Penelope was in the
gayest of spirits[-] regardless of her protesta-
tions to her brother, she had dressed her-
self with the greatest care in the colors
Plympton preferred, and even wore his
favorite flowers, sent from his own hot
house, and everything in and about the
mansion bespoke a woman’s desire to please
the guest of the occasion.
‘The mistletoe hung in the castle hal[-],
The ho[-]ly branch shone on the old oak wall.'
	Young Dilliway sprang from the cab and
Harry Severn followed him into the great
wide hall amid a perfect blaze of light and
dazzle of brilliancy; beyond was the library,
and the brother thinking to give his sister
the pleasure of a lover’s greeting hurried to
the library with his young friend while he
went himself to call Penelope. The library
opened on the other side from the drawing
room, and while Harry stood waiting ex-
pecting momentarily to see his sweetheart
the heavy tapestry curtains parted, and
beaming with smiles, and radiant as the
sun, in steps Penelope followed by Charles
Plympton. At sight of her lover in mili-
tary cloak and plumes, she paled like death
and would have fainted had she not burst
into tears; the soldier never stirred, he stood
like a statue, a few seconds and the brother
came to the rescue, he took his sister and
led her from the library through the long
hall up the marble staircase to her own
room and there he left her “alone with her
conscience.”
	He was absent a few seconds but in that
time angry and bitter words had passed be-
tween the two young men[-] and a quarrel
seemed inevitable. The brother succeeded
in pacifying them by reminding them it was
Xmas eve, and that “Peace and good will”
had always prevailed at such times in all re-
spectable English homes; that it would be
an unpardonable offense for two gentlemen
to disturb the host, and what would be
gained by giving way to an insane passion
for supremacy in a young girls affection.
“Besides,” he added, “you believe, doubt-
less in the old saying ‘All is fair in love
and war.’ ”
	While her brother was making peace be-
low stairs, Penelope’s sobs and shrieks had
brought her maid Honore to her assistance,
and with the aid of restoratives and condo-
lences, she finally calmed her nerves, pur-
suaded her to change her apparel, and
make herself presentable at dinner, for there
was to be quite a large party of gentlemen
and a few ladies, among them the old duke
who was so enamored of Penelope, that he
made himself ridiculous in the extreme.
	Penelope had at least two good hours in
which to compose herself and her father
and brother were too much engaged in pre-
parations to pay any attention to other
matters; as for Ned he was maneuvering to
keep peace with the two disappointed lov-
ers, and so Penelope had time for reflection.
Her maid consoled her pride and vanity by
saying “she was sure it was no harm for a
pretty young woman to dress to please
visitors, and of course, honey, you were
perfectly innocent, tho’ if you had known
Mr. Severn was coming home you would
have worn moss roses and violets and pale
blue silk instead of that gay figured satin
with the poppies, and I know the Lieut. is
the favorite by your blushes.”

[Column 3]
	Poor Penelope tried in vain to hush the
voluble maid, who simply adored her young
mistress as she had the mother whom she
had served when Penelope was a child, and
who had been dead now some years; and as
trusted servants will she took great liber-
ities in talking, not only to Miss Penelope
but to Miss Penelope’s lovers, whenever
she had an opportunity making each in
turn believe he was the prime favorite
	Finally the dinner gong rung and Penel-
ope pale and trembling dressed demurely in
Quaker gray satin, emerged from her room
and went almost stealthily to the great,
oaken dining hall. Her brother had come
forward and to disguise the awkward
library scene from his father, said, “My
sister, I have a surprise for you, here is our
young Lieut. home on furlough, and Mr.
Plympton and the Duke of Weldmore, Lady
Eliza and Miss Bessie, his daughters,” and
so on through the entire company. Mr.
Dilliway was in such high spirits that he
did not observe the sedate and studied man-
ner of his daughter, nor the black looks in-
terchanged between the three suitors. He
thought only of the grand dinner and the
grander guests, who had come at his invita-
tion to partake his hospitality; for rich as
he was, favored by fortune, he had no
claim to titles and it was something of a
condescension on their part, to have his
table filled with men and women of rank
and title. He had no idea a storm was
brewing there and then that would end in
sorrow and disgrace.
	Dowager Lady Cushing sat at the table
by Miss Dilliway for in those days it was
not proper for unmarried ladies to enter-
tain at dinner, unless they had reached an
uncertain age; and after much feasting and
gay interchange of witty toasting and rep-
artee the ladies retired to the drawing room
and Penelope breathed more freely. Two
or three times Lady Cushing rallied her for
lack of her usual witticisms, she was an ad-
mirer of Penelope’s beauty and would glad-
ly have secured her as a wife for her young-
est son, but he was sensible enough not to
venture into the field with so many rivals,
even at his mother’s earnest solicitation.
Ned Dilliway and Harry Severn excused
themselves soon after the ladies withdrew,
and went into the open air where they
could speak freely. Ned promised Harry if
he would be discreet, he would secure an in-
terview for him with his sister, whom he
was sure loved him best, notwithstanding
appearances to the contrary, and the Lieut.
went away out of sorts leaving his adieux
for Ned to make. In the dining room the
Duke boasted of his diplomacy in courtship
so openly that he angered Charles Plymp-
ton who bandied words with him until Mr.
Dilliway was obliged to interfere and sue
for peace, at least while under his roof at
Xmas time.
	Lady Cushing and the duke’s daughters
took affectionate leave of Miss Dilliway,
when the hour came for going, declaring
the dinner, the music and the entire
affair a perfect entertainment, and when
Lady Cushing kissed her she said, “Poor,
dear Penelope, what a pity you can’t marry
all your beaux. I’m sure you don’t know
which to choose between so many. I wish
my Dick would enter the contest.”
	Penelope half bewildered stammered out
“O don’t, Lady Cushing, spare him any share
of humiliation I am bringing on my-
self.”
	It was the first out break she had made;
(Continued on page 8[-].)


(Continued from page 87.)
but in a sense it was a sort of relief. She
had neither a mother, aunt or sister in whom
to confide.
	A day or two followed in pouring rain
and sleet and it was almost impos-
sible to go outside, no visitors came though
it was holiday week; and the real Christ-
mas, the day after the party was more for
the servants and people employed by them
than for the family. Penelope’s tears were
almost like the downpour of rain and she
begged Ned to make everything right with
Harry, and so he did and planned a meet-
ing which ended in a reconciliation and a
promise of marriage, as soon as the father’s
consent could be obtained. The Lieut. re-
turned to his regiment and Penelope set
about preparations for the bridal trousseau,
as she had independent means of her own,
and was left much to herself in matters of
expenditure, it was an easy thing to do.
London affords great opportunities for shop-
ping, and Honore knew all the best places
and establishments. The carriage was al-


[Column 1] 
ways at Penelope's disposal and no ques-
tions were asked. Mr Dilliway saw Plymp-
ton come and go often, and thought his
plans were working well; for the Lieut. 
had gone and of the difficulty between the
young men he was totally unaware. Oc-
casionally the old duke came and made
himself officiously familiar and Mr. Dilliway
chaffed Penelope unmercifully about her
old lover; but she kept her own counsel
and took no one into her confidence except
her brother Ned and Honore. And the
winter passed away with only a few house
parties here and there, the Plympton’s and
Dick Cushing would gladly have escorted
Miss Dilliway anywhere, and she had the
entree into the best society, for her beauty
and her voice were almost marvelous;
wherever she went she attracted great at
tention, and the young men in her set were
wild in her praise.
	The old Duke of Osmond died very sud-
denly at last, although his death had been
long talked of, and Charles Plympton the
rightful heir, very soon came into the estate,
assuming the name and title. Mr. Dilli-
way rested secure; to all appearances Charles
was in proud possession of the field, and he
began to urge his daughter to prepare for
marriage settlements, and to purchase
bridal apparel. It was not difficult for Miss
Dilliway to dissemble. Honore thought it
all right and Ned did not object, now that
he felt sure she would be true to Harry,
and Mr. Dilliway spoke of the affair in the
most positive way. The young Duke was
so elated with his newly acquired honors,
and Penelope was so amiable with him,
that he was deceived by appearances into
believing that she was to be his wife though
her manner was always distant and haugh-
ty. He felt he had none of a lover’s privi-
leges, and yet he was so vain and selfish
that he did not take it to heart. There had
really been no courting, but Charles had an
idea it was the proper thing among people
of rank to show no sort of weakness.
	Mr. Dilliway made up his mind the wed-
ding should take place in June and Honore
had given the duke to understand her mis-
tress had consented. And she also added,
“Everything is ready except the legal mat-
ters which can be arranged when the time
comes.”
	Ned was in communication with Harry
and had informed him that his father had
consented to Penelope’s marriage in June
and that he would be ready, and when the
final settlements were to be made Penelope
would be firm in her resolution to marry
none but her own true lover, and his father
tho’ reluctant would certainly consent to
her choice at last and all would be well.
Ned also informed him that Plympton was
sweet on Lady Eliza, eldest daughter of
Duke Weldmore and in fact showed her
marked attention and if he ascertained the
true state of his sisters affection he would
soon console himself by espousing Lady
Eliza, who was really a very proper young
person and had always been accustomed to
wealth and refinement, and would make a
very elegant duchess. 
	Harry Severn was too much in 1ove to
wait until sent for, and hurried up to Lon-
don two or three weeks before he was ex-
pected; when hearing from his old friends
that Penelope Dilliway was engaged to
Plympton became so enraged that he called
upon him at his own place, and proceeded
forthwith to accuse him of winning his
sweetheart’s affection. Both were hot-

[Column 2]
tempered and a challenge was the immedi-
ate result of the interview. The affair was
to be private and each was to choose a sec-
ond. Naturally Harry chose Ned Dilli-
way and the duke one of his own men. It
was to take place the following day and the
night was spent in secret preparations for
the encounter. Ned Dilliway was reluctant
to serve as second but he yielded, believing
Harry to be so good a lance that he would
come off conquerer and all would be well.
However, he would not consent to its tak-
ing place on English ground, and so they
crossed the Channel. It was not an un-
usual thing for Ned to be away from home,
and neither Penelope nor her father
dreamed of any mischief brewing.
	The duel was fought, the duke escaped
without a scratch, but Harry was wounded
and Ned was obliged to carry home the
wounded man and bear the unwelcome
news to his father, who was so overcome
with rage and disappointment that he died
shortly after in a fit of appoplexy. Penelope
suffered untold agonies, she put her bridal
apparel away, determined never to go into
society again, but retire from the world of
pride and fashion. The duke went abroad
until the affair should blow over. Ned was
constantly with Harry Severn until he re-
covered sufficiently to go away on the con-
tinent, he was obliged to leave the service,
and within three years from that Christmas
eve things had undergone a great change in
the Dilliway house. Ned married Miss
Hester Cushing, Dick’s younger sister,
some years later, Harry Severn was
drowned at sea while crossing on the Medit-
teranean, during his convalescence which
had been slow and tedious. During all 
these years Aunt Dilliway had never seen
him, though her heart was constant and
had he not met an untimely death they
would have married. Duke Osmond came
back to England and fairly persecuted Miss
Dilliway but she sternly refused to see him
and they never met except by accident,
when she would be taking exercise in the
parks or suburbs, and then he was persis-
tent in offering her attentions, which she
obstinately refused when possible. She
sent back his letters unopened, refused gifts
sent anonymously and finally made up her
mind that it was impossible to live in Eng-
land.

	Such was Aunt Dilliway’s love story
told to us with all sorts of embellishments.
And no better object lesson could have
been given to a bevy of thoughtless, roman-
tic girls. It was little wonder that Aunt
Dilliway lived the life of a recluse with
such a past behind her. Ned Dilliway was
Pamela’s grandfather and both her grand-
parents and parents were then quietly sleep-
ing in the Dilliway cemetery. Pamela was
left an orphan when only six years old and
had been sent to her aunt in America who
was also appointed her guardian; but when
she became aware of the escapades and
treachery of Pamela’s governess she was
without doubt seriously alarmed. The
governess had been sent from England, in
care of the little girl and had been trusted
as one of the household. Aunt Dilliway
thought the wisest course would be to send
her into the country to her uncle in whom
she had great confidence. Pamela had been
fondly attached to Belmont, and was very
much grieved at parting from her; previous
however, to her going she had given the
girl sound advice, warning her against and

[Column 3]
sort of deception by telling her incidents in
her own experience.
	Shortly after our ramble among the hills
news came of the sudden decease of Penel-
ope Dilliway and Pamela left for Boston
with her uncle. We never saw her after
but heard of her return to England, and
through the Kingsley’s that her aunt had
left a very peculiar will and a letter ad-
dressed to her grand niece warning her
against the temptations of pride, vanity,
and above all coquetry, and the love of
dress and of admiration, setting forth elo-
quently her own mistakes in early life and
dilating upon her long years of suffering,
repentance and prayers for divine mercy
and forgiveness; imploring Pamela never to
practice deceit of any kind, but to be con-
stant, virtuous truthful and upright in all
things, which was the only safe course to
pursue and the sure road to happiness here
and hereafter.
	This love story briefly told should be a
warning to every vain and self-satisfied
young girl, who longs for attention and
admiration from the opposite sex, or from
the world; many innocent ones fall into
snares and are led astray through vanity
and inordinate pride. If girls could only
realize the untold misery and life-long sor-
row they would bring upon themselves and
their loved ones, they would assuredly pause
in their mad career and never allow their
good name to be tarnished by being called
a flirt.
	“Oh what a tangled web we weave
	When first we venture to deceive.”
							E. B. W.


WOMANS EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

