[Vol54 | November 1967 | Page 865 | Lesson | Homemaking The Living Room Your Design for Living Celestia | J. Taylor]

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE—Truths to Live By

Message 5—Take Time to Show Love

Alice Colton Smith

Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1968
Southern Hemisphere: July 1968

Objective: We must organize our lives so as to have time to show love to others.

Long ago on the robber-infested road to Jericho, two churchmen did not stop to help a man in need, but a despised Samaritan had compassion on him (Luke 10:33) and cared for him.

Did the priest and the Levite justify themselves by some need to hurry? Was their business so pressing or important that they had no time to help? Were they fearful of being involved?

It takes time to love, and Jesus stressed that we are to take the time. When this parable was discussed recently with a busy mother, she put her head in her hands and moaned, "Where shall I find the time?"

The good Samaritan could not stay with the wounded man until he was well. He helped him to an inn and paid for his care. So, sometimes, we can pool our resources and get help we cannot or do not know how to give. If we do this, do we help once and then forget, letting someone else carry all the load, or do we, like the Samaritan return to check and see that all is going well?

The needs of the world are of an unending, overwhelming, magnitude. What can one do? Joseph Smith advised the Relief Society, "Let your labors be mostly confined to those around you, in the circle of your own acquaintance" (DHC IV, p. 607). He knew that each of us has time to take good care of only a few. However, if everyone followed his advice, no man would be without help.

The Good Samaritan thought through the problems and made the necessary arrangements. In our showing love, the same thoughtful planning is required. Do we set a time to determine what we will try to do? Then do we organize our time and do it?

For example, everyone needs a sympathetic listener, one who loves and listens without being preoccupied or hurried. One mother, understanding this, sat at the table for a half hour after breakfast and dinner. Soon her family discovered that this was the time to talk to mother and receive her undivided attention. This mother did listen.

To help us organize and have time to love we might try the following: (1) decide what is important; (2) sacrifice things of lesser value; (3) tackle one problem at a time; (4) be patient; (5) understand that it takes a long time to develop and train one's capacity to love; (6) expect mistakes and rebuffs as we learn to love; and, (7) give of oneself.
