[Vol54 | November 1967 | Page 851 | General Feature | Editorial: Gifts of a Mother Marianne | C. Sharp]
[Editorial: Gifts of a Mother Marianne C. Sharp]

Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. FROM THE FIELD — Relief Society Activities a tee ay 'ae Et ® - * bd i Addis Ababa (Ethiopia, French Mission) Relief Society Activities Left to right: Janice Cox; Mona Madsen, President, Addis Ababa Branch Relief Society; Barbara Jacobsen; Val Wilcox; Clara Jean Bills; Dr. Dorothy Candland. Sister Vera P. Hart, former supervisor, French Mission Relief Society, reports: "This little branch in Ethiopia operates independently of the mission, but is an inspiration to us all. Relief Society in the Addis Ababa Branch was organized in 1964. The members are wives of university professors, and meet in one another's homes. They take turns giving lessons, and each is an inspiration to the others. "They have no problems with inactivity. In March they held a dinner to commemorate the birth of Relief Society, and recently the Singing Mothers presented two songs in sacrament meeting. Even with such a small group, the program was lovely and inspirational. "While they all look forward to their return to the States, they feel that the choice experiences the Church provided in Africa can never be duplicated." Leola C. Anderson is the new supervisor of the French Mission Relief Society. 

851 November 1967

 Wilford Stake (Utah) May Festival May 1, 1967 "Come on, Mom, and dance," Earleen Gregory and Marie Mosteller encourage Una Nelson (Mom) in a scene from "A Home for Heidi." "Oh, no, I'm too old," the mother dramatizes in the skit which portrays the ideal home. Elna H. Palmer, President, Wilford Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our annual May festival was held in the morning and the evening. Luncheon was served to about: 550 sisters in the morning, with 375 youngsters being tended in the nursery. About 350 young people and their parents attended the evening program.. "A fashion show was presented by the mothers in the morning and in the evening by the MIA Laurels. The theme for the event was 'Make Your Home a Heaven on Earth.' Displays, hobbies, and demonstrations were most effective. Special demonstrations were: quilt making, table setting, chocolate dipping, gold leafing, afghans, whole wheat bread-making, decorations for all occasions, and old fashioned spinning on a spinning wheel. "Our program was an original skit, 'A Home for Heidi,' a musical which portrayed the story of Heidi being given a choice of which home she would like to live in here on earth before returning to her Heavenly Father. Music was furnished by the Singing Mothers and special groups." Richland Stake (Washington) Kennewick Second Ward Closing Social May 1967 Left, Betty Hunsaker, Homemaking Counselor; right, Melba Woodhouse, transportation chairman. Foreground, hand-tooled tray, pedigree charts, and history of Kennewick Second Ward Relief Society. President Evelyn N. Binns, Richland Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Kennewick Second Ward held one of the most original and delightful closing socials I have ever attended. The theme for the event was "Talent Fair,' and talent was plentiful in the original poetry, songs, writing, and displays presented. The most outstanding feature was the table decoration at the potluck dinner which followed the program. It consisted of flower arrangements made from vegetables and grapefruit peel. There were roses, narcissus, dogwood blossoms, and calla lilies, all made from grapefruit peel, white and yellow turnips, carrots, parsley, and honeydew melons. "Outstanding displays in all departments showed the work of many talented sisters. The use of a transportation committee which makes certain that each sister has a ride and someone to enjoy the day with, helped to make the social most. Outstanding." Emigration Stake Relief Society Closing Social May 22, 1967 Second row, left to right: Hazel Young, President, Emigration Stake Relief Society; Dora Richens, Second Counselor; LaVonne Van Orden, director, Singing Mothers chorus. Top row: Cast for presentation of "Our Fair Lady": Mary Nielson; Ann Matthews; Erna Ericksen; Betty Jo Armstrong; Barbara Stoker; Sheila Wendell; Donna Smart; Helen Goates; Gayle Matheson. Remaining sisters are members of Singing Mothers. Sister Young reports: "A most delightful and entertaining musical, "Our Fair Lady,' written by Mary L. Bradford, was sponsored by the stake board for the enjoyment of the Relief Society members and their husbands. Delicious refreshments of lime slush and homemade cookies were served." 

852 November 1967

 Winder Stake (Salt Lake City), Winder Third Ward Visiting Teachers Honored May 31, 1967 Back row, standing at extreme right: Charlottie B. Poulton, visiting teacher with longest service; third from right, Darlene Casad, Second Counselor; Alice T. Hinkle, President, Winder Third Ward Relief Society; Bernice O. Ursenbach, First Counselor; Thelma B. Jones, Secretary; ninth from right, Louise W. Free, President, Winder Stake Relief Society; thirteenth from right, Rehan S. Dunnigan, visiting teacher message leader. Standing at the back, Hugh W. Pinnock, Bishop, Winder Third Ward. Sister Free reports: "The visiting teachers of the Winder Third Ward were honored for achieving twelve consecutive years of 100 per cent visiting teaching. The entire group was first taken on a tour of Temple Square with their bishop as guide. They were then honored with a luncheon. "During the past year, President Alice T. Hinkle has stressed quality teaching and going the second mile. Going the extra mile required making calls at times convenient to the working sisters. It resulted in a greater appreciation of the visiting teacher program and was instrumental in activating many sisters and creating greater interest in the Relief Society program as a whole." Toronto Stake (Canada) Singing Mothers Concert June 10, 1967 Standing directly behind pulpit: Marjorie Innis, President, Toronto Stake Relief Society; to her left, Valerie Skelton, organist; Mona McMahen, stake chorister; beginning with gentleman in dark suit, left to right: Ralph Murfin, lighting technician; Alex Rosevear, master of ceremonies; Kathleen Keyes narrator; Anna Doyle, Second Counselor. Sister Innis reports: "Our Singing Mothers presented the first concert ever held in our stake, and it was an outstanding success. Prior to the concert, more than 300 sisters and their husbands and friends enjoyed dinner and entertainment. "In honor of Canada's centennial, the tables were decorated with Canadian and centennial flags. After dinner, the musical 'Let All My Life Be Music' was presented by the Singing Mothers, who looked charming in black and white, each wearing a pink rose. The sisters were diligent and faithful in coming to practices, some traveling long distances. Eight of the brethren helped out in the special numbers which contributed in making this evening so wonderful." New Zealand South Mission, Combined North Island Districts Singing Mothers Present Concert, April 15, 1967 Mission officers seated from fifth left, on second row: Louise Warren, chorister; Patricia M. Dawson, President; Marjorie C. Kjar, Supervisor, New Zealand South Mission Relief Society; Morris A. Kjar, Mission President; Howard H. Hodgkinson, First Counselor; Sister Hodgkinson; Yvonne L. Meiklen, Secretary; Pare Duncan, board member; Olive Gawler, Homemaking Counselor; Florence B. Dykes, Magazine representative; standing at extreme right, Awhitea Hiha, Education Counselor. Sister Kjar reports: "Many sisters traveled hundreds of miles to participate in the activities of a convention at which four districts and eighteen branch Relief Societies were represented. The program concluded with a Singing Mothers Concert. Nine combined choruses were conducted by Louise Warren. Several individual choruses rendered music conducted by their own choristers. "Participation in the convention activities has helped to create a greater interest in all aspects of Relief Society work and has brought much joy and spiritual growth'to the sisters throughout the mission." 

854 November 1967

 Cumorah Mission (New York), Binghamton Branch Bazaar April 1966 Left to right: Charlene Holstrom, homemaking leader; Jane Hales, bazaar chairman; Ruth Childson; Nina Cook, Secretary; Margaret Whittemore, social relations leader. Mary S. Bankhead, Supervisor. Cumorah Mission Relief Society, reports: "The 1966 Binghamton Branch Relief Society bazaar was held at a local shopping plaza in conjunction with several other charitable organizations. We felt that it would be a marvelous opportunity to expose the women in our area to the Church and to the quality of workmanship of our Latter-day Saint women. We hope to begin a reputation which will insure the success of future bazaars." Brigham Young University (Provo, Utah), Fifth Stake Chorus May 6, 1967 Second row on left, Karla Kofoed, accompanist; back row on left, Patricia Burgener, chorister. Irva Pratt Andrus, Brigham Young University Fifth Stake Relief Society President, reports: '""The sisters in the BYU Fifth Stake have responded eagerly to the call of Relief Society and enjoy the opportunity that organizing the stake chorus gives them to develop their talents. We have held well attended weekly practices and presented programs in the wards of our stake, as well as in other stakes on the campus. Although many of these sisters are not mothers, and most of them are students, they have made singing a very special part of the religious life on the campus. San Mateo Stake (California) Short Story Contest Winners April 13, 1967 Left to right: Jennie L. Richard, third place winner; Maureen Glew, first place winner; Thelma R. Curtis, President, San Mateo Stake Relief Society, making the presentations; Theresa Jackson, second place winner. Sister Curtis reports: '""The annual short story and poetry contest sponsored by the San Mateo Stake Relief Society gains in momentum each year. Under the direction of Inez Suhlsen, Education Counselor, and Naomi Manwaring, spiritual living class leader, the stake has encouraged the sisters to pursue selfexpression through creative writing, as well as in music and art. "Winners in the poetry division were: Margaret E. Reynolds, first place; Theresa Jackson, second place; and Edna Wheeiwright, third place." Ammon Stake (Idaho) Trousseau Luncheon and Bazaar April 15, 1967 Standing near a section of the table display are Ammon Stake Relief Society Presidency, left to right: Luana H. Mecham, Education Counselor; Virginia L. Garner, President; Jacqueline K. Catmull, Homemaking Counselor. Sister Garner reports: 'Colorful spring decorations of pink and lavendar set the mood for a typically bridal affair. A lovely luncheon was served to 200 sisters and a special program was presented. The eight wards and stake board contributed items which might be found in a bridal trousseau: linen, bedding, etc. Which were sold to those attending. An outstanding table display depicting events in a bride's life was prepared by the wards. The tables included the engagement announcement, bridal shower, wedding breakfast, first dinner party, baby shower, child's birthday party, silver anniversary, and golden anniversary. Another feature of the bazaar was a baked foods display and sale." 

856 November 1967

 East Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Relief Society Aids Red Cross Left to right: Joan R. Benson, President, Phoenix Fifth Ward Relief Society; Counselors Eleanor M. Seaver and Gail M. Kleinman. Sister Lois Tanner, President, East Phoenix Stake Relief Society reports: "When the Red Cross requested help in making denim 'ditty bags' which would be filled and sent to Viet Nam to our servicemen, the sisters of the East Phoenix Stake responded eagerly. "With patriotic effort, nearly 500 bags were finished and returned to the Red Cross within a two weeks deadline. This was a rewarding task, noted by the local newspapers. But more important, it brought many tender thoughts of our American boys who are willing once again to stand for America, her ideals, strength, and blessed freedoms we all enjoy." 858 Coy SPIRITUAL LIVING— The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 85—The Kirtland Temple (Dedicatory Prayer) Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 109) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman analyzes the dedicatory prayer given by revelation to enlarge her understanding of proper entreaties to the INTRODUCTION As early as 1832, the Lord commanded his people to build a temple in Kirtland, Ohio. (D&C 88:119-120.) A committee was appointed to obtain funds for the construction of the temple. The Lord had told his people that a purpose of this building was that the disciples might go forth to prune the vineyard for the last time. (Ibid., 95:4) In the circular sent out by the committee, it was said that this house would be the place where the elders might call a solemn assembly, and treasure up words of wisdom that they might go to the gentiles for the last time. (DHC 1:349.) THE KIRTLAND TEMPLE On March 27, 1836, the day of the dedication of the Kirtland temple, the structure, consisting of two stories and an attic, was finished except for the second story. The first and second stories Lord to assist her in her own praying. Each had two pulpits, one at each end, consisting of four different compartments, one arising above and a little behind the next one, capable of seating three persons each. One set of the pulpits was for the Melchizedek Priesthood while the one at the other end of the room was for the Aaronic Priesthood. By means of curtains or veils hanging from the ceiling, each room could be divided into four compartments or classes. The doctrine of baptism for the dead had not been revealed at this time, consequently, there was no baptismal font in the building. The building was, however, constructed to suit and accomodate the various quorums of the Priesthood and worship of the Church at that time. In the attic, five rooms were built for the holding of school and the use of different quorums of the Priesthood. DEDICATORY SERVICE The dedicatory service con- 859 The Kirtland (Ohio) Temple, dedicated March 27, 1836, consists of two stories and an attic. It still stands today, although it is not presently owned by the Church. In the first and second stories were two pulpits, one at each end, consisting of four compartments, one arising above and a little behind the next, each seating three persons. Sy oe RS 4 & F ' mr {A 04 Chas. LEAL IAF AE sisted of praying, congregational singing, preaching, testimony bearing, and the dedication of the building by the reading of the prayer given by revelation. Following the prayer the congregation was led in the Hosanna Shout. An important part of the service was the approval of the General Authorities under the law of common consent. It was upon this occasion that the Prophet Joseph Smith asked the people to sustain the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. (DHC I11:410-428.) Many spiritual manifestations were observed during the day. SECTION 109 Section 109 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the dedicatory prayer for the Kirtland Temple, was received by revelation. (DHC II: 420.) Although this prayer was given for a special purpose, there are many elements in it which may assist members of the Church to understand the two following aspects of prayer: (1) prayer form; and (2) prayer content. It is understood that prayer should be appropriate to the occasion, and it should come from the heart. Particularly where members of the Church are called upon to offer public prayers in behalf of those assembled in meetings, there is suggested the need to use language which expresses the purpose of the prayer. In a study of this dedicatory prayer, one should not consider that all things for which a person should pray are mentioned, because of the special purpose of this prayer. One can learn, however, many important points about prayer which may be beneLesson Department ficial. This revelation is the model for the dedication of temples and other structures in the Church. PRAYER CONTENT Some members of the Church are concerned as to how they can keep their daily prayers from becoming formal and trite. If one prays for individual needs only, there is a reason for reviewing the many possibilities for which one might sincerely pray. Section 109 gives many of these points. Some of these elements are as follows: (1) purpose; (2) expression of gratitude; (3) remembrance of others; (4) protection and assistance; (5) forgiveness of sin; (6) the Church and the gospel. Class Discussion What is the proper prayer language? PURPOSE Frequently members of the Church who represent a group or congregation in giving the invocation, mention the purpose for which the meeting is being held. Sometimes reference is made to the faith and diligence of those present. In the dedicatory prayer one reads a review of the events in the building of the Kirtland Temple. The fulfillment of the commandment to build the temple is mentioned (D&C 109:1-4) and the tribulations experienced amid poverty, "that the Son of Man might have a place to manifest himself to his people"' (Ibid., 109: 5). President Sidney Rigdon gave a two and one-half hour address during the service, the purpose of which was to compare the privations and hardships of the people in building the temple with that 

861 November 1967

 of the saints during the time of the Savior. (Life of Heber C. Kimball, p. 90.) The Prophet also prayed, as we do, for success in a calling, that the solemn assembly commanded to be held, might be acceptable. (Ibid., 109:6-13.) REMEMBER THE MISSIONARIES Those members of the Church who have had members of their families serve as missionaries, or who themselves have been on missions for the Church, or who may have been converted through the labors of missionaries, have a strong feeling for the success of those who labor in the mission field. All members of the Church who have a sincere desire for the growth of the Church are anxious to have the Lord's power with his servants. Many verses in the dedicatory prayer are devoted to this subject. The desire of the Prophet was that nothing which would thwart the progress of the Church would be successful. That those who lied or published slanderous material against the saints might be confounded, was a part of that petition. (Ibid., 109:24-33.) Before the saints had established Kirtland, Ohio, as a gathering place, the Lord promised that when his servants were endowed there would be a gathering to the bosom of the Church. (Ibid., 38:38.) This endowment would be such that they would be taught from on high to perform missionary work. (Ibid., 43:16.) With the temple built, the great missionary program would be inaugurated. Apparently the endowment referred to in reference to the Kirt- 862 land Temple was an outpouring of the Holy Ghost. The Prophet prayed for this blessing for those who would go forth to preach the gospel. (Ibid., 109:22-23, 35, 42.) Class Discussion How important is it that you pray for the missionaries in your daily prayers? REMEMBER THE SUFFERING SAINTS The Prophet prayed that the actions of wicked men against the saints would cease, and that their persecutors might repent of their wicked ways. (D&C 109:45-53.) The persecution suffered by the saints of the Missouri period consisted of both physical and mental persecution. Although the saints today do not receive persecution from arms or the loss of homes and a lack of the necessities of life, still, in some mission fields, there is possible loss of employment and some forms of ostracism. Latter-day Saints throughout the world may well pray for their fellow members that persecution may cease, but that if tribulations come, they may be able to withstand them. REMEMBER THE HEADS OF GOVERNMENTS Latter-day Saints are known as a peace-loving people. They wait for the day when there will be a permanent peace with the coming of the Savior. (Ibid., 101:26.) They have been commanded, also, to renounce war and to seek peace through the turning of the hearts of the children to the fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the children. (Ibid., 98:16-17.) This admonition to preach the gospel that peace may be generated in the hearts of men, is consistent with the truth that surcease from war and calamity are not promised for this dispensation. (Ibid., 1:35; 97:22-23.) Latter-day Saints have the opportunity to pray for the day when the Savior will come that a new day will dawn upon the world. They also may pray for the rulers of nations, as did the Prophet Joseph Smith, that their hearts and the hearts of their subjects may be softened that they may accept the servants of the Lord who will preach to them the gospel of peace. (Ibid., 109:54-58.) REMEMBER THE LEADERS OF THE CHURCH We learned in last month's lesson that Latter-day Saints should sustain those who preside over them, by their prayers. (Jbid., 108:7.) In the following words, President George Albert Smith encouraged the saints to do this:... 1 hope that we will be found in the lines of our duty, praying for and sustaining our present leaders, blessing them by our kindness and our love, and presenting them before our Heavenly Father in our daily prayers, asking him that he will give them the richness of his love and blessing (Conference Report October 1934, p. 53). Not only did the Prophet Joseph Smith pray that the Lord would remember him, but also his family and relatives, together with the other leaders of the Church. (D&C 109:68-71.) REMEMBER THE POOR AND AFFLICTED A purpose of earth life is that man may experience pain, sorrow, and tribulation. (Jbid., 122:7-8.) Through these experiences a sympathetic understanding is develLesson Department oped toward others who suffer. The dedicatory prayer included the petition to remember the various families of the Church with their sick and afflicted, and also the poor and the meek of the earth. (Ibid., 109:72.) PROTECTION AND ASSISTANCE Life is precious. We cling to life when sickness or accident threatens the taking of life. The prophecies are abundant that refer to the judgments of the last days, and we see that these predictions are coming to pass. It is our desire that we and our loved ones can withstand these calamities. (Ibid., 29:14-21; 43:22-26; 45:31-33.), In reference to these judgments, the Prophet indicated that the Lord's predictions would be fulfilled and that we should recognize that the Lord's will would be done. Recognizing that these conditions will prevail on the earth, he prayed that the saints might be delivered from that wickedness. (I bid., 109: 43-46.) FORGIVENESS OF SINS Forgiveness of sins comes through the atonement of Jesus Christ. Latter-day Saints should express to their Heavenly Father appreciation for the gift of repentance through Jesus Christ. (Ibid., 109:34.) THE CHURCH AND THE GOSPEL In the gospel plan there are many events predicted for the dispensation in which we live. Those mentioned in the dedicatory prayer are events for which Latter-day Saints might well pray for their speedy fulfillment. The Prophet 

863 November 1967

 prayed on behalf of the membership of the Church that the Lord would have mercy upon the various segments of scattered Israel. He called attention to the need for the Jews to return to their ancient homeland. (/bid., 109:61- 64.) The Lamanites about whom The Book of Mormon reveals a great destiny, are mentioned as subjects of salvation to be converted to the fulness of the gospel. (Ibid., 109:65-66.) Finally, the Prophet prayed that the rest of scattered Israel might be gathered into the Church from the nations of the earth. (Ibid., 109:67.) THY WILL BE DONE Man's understanding is limited. He is unable to see beyond his own vista except through the eye of prophecy. God's sight is an eternal one—from the beginning to the end. He knows all things, and he is all-powerful. Latter-day Saints have the privilege of learning the will of the Father and of understanding by the light of revelation, insofar as revelation allows. There are times in men's lives when they must accept through faith the unrevealed, and say, as the Prophet Joseph Smith prayed in this dedicatory prayer: '"Thy will be done, O Lord, and not ours" (D&C 109:44). Class Discussion Why do you believe that one should pray, ''not as I will, but as thou wilt'? (Matt. 26:39) IMPLEMENTATION Latter-day Saints have been counseled from the beginning to 864 express their faith through individual prayer, through family - prayer, and, when asked, before the congregations of the saints. They have come 'to realize that without prayer they cannot receive: salvation. Children reared. In Latter-day Saint homes learn to pray. There are times when it seems that there is a need to express oneself beyond the usual requests for individual needs. The possibilities of expressing one's innermost feelings concerning the Church and the gospel are almost limitless. As one comes to understand the plan of salvation better, his desires for success of the kingdom are increased, and his appreciation for what the Lord has provided mankind through the gospel is greatly enlarged. The dedicatory prayer for the Kirtland Temple, given by revelation, is a source of inspiration for those who seek to enlarge their prayer possibilities. Out of this revelation, one may receive confirmation of matters about which he has prayed, and also learn of other opportunities which, apparently, the Lord would have us understand. Might it not be well seriously to consider further ex- -pressions of gratitude for the numerous privileges which are ours? One need not mention all possible prayer elements in a given prayer, but perhaps one or more new items may be spoken to be replaced by other thoughts in subsequent prayers, as the Spirit may direct. The Lord has said that he who obeys his ordinances and prays with a contrite spirit is accepted of him. (D&C 52:15.)