[Vol54 | November 1967 | Page 804 | Special Feature | Security Amid Change Marianne C. Sharp 810 "The Heart and Willing Mind" Louise | W. Madsen]
Security Amid Change Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967] 810 «A few weeks ago I carried the newspaper in to my husband. On the way I glanced at the headlines. I said to him, "The only thing that seems right in the world is the Church." Accidents, earthquakes, wars, raids, riots, strikes, robberies—they were all there to be seen at a glance. The same feeling comes over me when I read the so-called women's magazines. Everywhere are articles on unhappy marriages, birth control, abortions, drugs, and the personal lives of glamorous divorcees and their latest marriages. We have even had women write us and ask why the fiction in The Relief Society Magazine doesn't mirror these conditions in the world. In this so-called changing world, men would have us believe that basic laws change, that what was. Considered moral in our grandparents' day is no longer in force, that changing conditions have changed the need for chastity and honesty, that the virtues are outmoded. Indicative of the prophecy that the wisdom of the wise should perish, is the statement attributed to a learned professor at Dartmouth who characterized the divinely inspired Constitution as 'a mudbank left by the receding tides of history" and said that it was left from the "era of the ox-drawn sledge." A Latter-day Saint knows that divine laws never change, the only change is the conduct of God's children toward the laws, their disobedience to God's laws. Edicts against promiscuity, the use of certain substances, and civil disobedience, among others, have been and will always be in force. As mothers, we need. To bulwark our children against these prevalent, loose and _ wicked thoughts and actions. We must be on the watchtower in our homes twenty-four hours a day. We must constantly pray for guidance and seek the counsel of the Priesthood in our efforts. With all that a mother must do, it would seem that each child should feel accepted and loved and secure in the love that his parents feel for each other and for him. It is an arduous task for a mother to maintain a loving attitude in spite of irritations and worries which come inevitably. One mother preserves her loving calmness through snatching just a few minutes to read a few verses of scripture. She says there is nothing which calms her feelings and changes her attitudes so quickly as this does. As the children have grown older and noticed her reading, it has caused the scriptures to take on greater significance in their daily living. President George Albert Smith once said in a talk, ""There is no happiness worthy of the name that does not come as a result of obedience to a loving Father who has said to us 'This is the pathway, walk ye in it....' There is Security Amid Change safety for us only on the Lord's side of the line" (The Handbook of the Restoration, page 601). A child reared in a loving home easily learns t