[Vol54 | November 1967 | Page 866 | Lesson | Social Relations Do I Live What I Say? Alberta | H. Christensen]

November 1967

HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education

Discussion 5—The Living Room—Your Design for Living

Celestia J. Taylor

Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February, 1968
Southern Hemisphere: July 1968

Objective: To awaken us to the possibilities of using what we have to the greatest advantage.

INTRODUCTION

Sir Winston Churchill once said that "we shape our houses and then they shape our lives." It is not possible for us to escape the fact that the homes we live in are a reflection of ourselves—of our desires, our values, and our personalities. "Oh," you say, "this isn't true; if I had more money, this isn't the way I'd live, at all or the kind of house I'd live in, at all."

Many people have excused their inadequacies and have justified their inability to create a satisfactory way of life, by this kind of reasoning. Money is seldom the answer, however, to the question as to the kind of life we build for ourselves within our homes. Rather, the real answer lies in our ability to make the most of what we have and to face the truth about our limitations. In most parts of the world, the poorest of us today have far more to work with than did our grandparents, and most of them managed to make of their homes places of beauty, enriched with the joy of contentment. At the same time, the richest of us need to know that the extravagant expenditure of money does not guarantee good taste or lasting satisfaction in our possessions.

How can we make our living rooms reflect the kind of life which each of us wants to live?

PLAN FOR THE FAMILY

The living room should be planned and arranged to best serve its function as the living center of the home for the people who are to use it. The furniture should be placed for the convenience of living, to serve family interests, and in "conversational groupings" for gracious living and entertaining. A living room is not conducive to happy family living if it is not planned for every member of the family, regardless of how beautiful it may be.

LIVE WITH COLORS THAT KEEP YOU HAPPY

Color is the most important single factor to be considered in decorating your living room. With

866

color, you can create beauty and add charm and gaiety to an otherwise drab and dreary setting. Scientists have proven that the colors we live with have a definite influence on our emotions and upon our nervous systems. Before the decorating, familiarize yourself with the various color harmonies and don't be afraid to use them. It is surprising what you can do with a paint brush to add beauty to your room.

HOW SHOULD WE FURNISH THE LIVING ROOM?

Successful furnishing of any room requires careful planning. This will include making a list of all the furnishings which are needed—furniture, floor coverings, draperies etc., their approximate cost, and the order of their importance to the overall plan. In most cases, a budget has to be considered. When the cost of the room furnishings exceeds the available funds, the most important things should be considered first, and budget-stretching substitutes can be sought to fill the other needs.

1. By purchasing unfinished furniture with the finishing work done by yourself, you can add extra pieces to your room and obtain individual color effects which have considerable charm and personality.

2. With a little rejuvenating, there is many a chest, table, or chair that would be a worthy addition to your room. Bring down the relics from the attic; visit the secondhand stores, and bring hidden beauty to life at little cost.

MAKE YOUR ACCESSORIES COUNT

Accessories, sometimes called "tremendous trifles," are all those things which put the finishing

touches to your room. They can not only add highlights of decorating interest, but they can serve utilitarian purposes as well. However, wise judgment must be exercised in their selection. Use your treasured heirlooms, your valued gifts, and your personal keepsakes as a part of your living room decor, but only if they meet the following tests, otherwise, they will serve only to clutter the room, rather than to contribute to its harmony:

1. Is it an object of beauty?
2. Is it appropriate for the room?
3. Does it enhance the color scheme?
4. If utilitarian, does it successfully fulfill its function?

CONCLUSION

In our homes, the living room, with its furnishings and the way of life within it, should be a reflection of our lives as we would wish them to be. Through wise planning, careful budgeting, and judicious use of the things which we have, and by developing our sense of good taste through study and observation, we can achieve this end. We can make our living rooms places of beauty where our families love to be.

Questions for Discussion

1. How can we best express our own personalities in our living rooms?
2. Are we utilizing what we have to the best advantage?
3. Does my family really enjoy the living room, and is it conducive to the comfort and well-being of every member?

Suggestion: An interesting demonstration could be given to correlate with the lesson, e.g., antiquing or refinishing furniture, gold leafing, or the making of slipcovers, and draperies.

Lesson Department

867
