[Vol54 | November 1967 | Page 859 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Message Take Time to Show Love Alice | Colton Smith]

Lesson Department

SPIRITUAL LIVING—
The Doctrine and Covenants

Lesson 35—The Kirtland Temple (Dedicatory Prayer)
Elder Roy W. Doxey

(Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 109)
Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1968
Southern Hemisphere: July 1968

Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman analyzes the dedicatory prayer given by revelation to enlarge her understanding of proper entreaties to the Lord to assist her in her own praying.

INTRODUCTION

As early as 1832, the Lord commanded his people to build a temple in Kirtland, Ohio. (D&C 88:119-120.) A committee was appointed to obtain funds for the construction of the temple. The Lord had told his people that a purpose of this building was that the disciples might go forth to prune the vineyard for the last time. (D&C 95:4) In the circular sent out by the committee, it was said that this house would be the place where the elders might call a solemn assembly, and treasure up words of wisdom that they might go to the gentiles for the last time. (DHC I:349.)

THE KIRTLAND TEMPLE

On March 27, 1836, the day of the dedication of the Kirtland temple, the structure, consisting of two stories and an attic, was finished except for the second story. The first and second stories each had two pulpits, one at each end, consisting of four different compartments, one arising above and a little behind the next one, capable of seating three persons each. One set of the pulpits was for the Melchizedek Priesthood while the one at the other end of the room was for the Aaronic Priesthood. By means of curtains or veils hanging from the ceiling, each room could be divided into four compartments or classes. The doctrine of baptism for the dead had not been revealed at this time, consequently, there was no baptismal font in the building. The building was, however, constructed to suit and accomodate the various quorums of the Priesthood and worship of the Church at that time. In the attic, five rooms were built for the holding of school and the use of different quorums of the Priesthood.

DEDICATORY SERVICE

The dedicatory service con-

859

The Kirtland (Ohio) Temple, dedicated March 27, 1836, consists of two stories and an attic. It still stands today, although it is not presently owned by the Church.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

In the first and second stories were two pulpits, one at each end, consisting of four compartments, one arising above and a little behind the next, each seating three persons.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Lesson Department

sisted of praying, congregational singing, preaching, testimony bearing, and the dedication of the building by the reading of the prayer given by revelation. Following the prayer the congregation was led in the Hosanna Shout. An important part of the service was the approval of the General Authorities under the law of common consent. It was upon this occasion that the Prophet Joseph Smith asked the people to sustain the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. (DHC II:410-428.) Many spiritual manifestations were observed during the day.

SECTION 109

Section 109 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the dedicatory prayer for the Kirtland Temple, was received by revelation. (DHC II: 420.) Although this prayer was given for a special purpose, there are many elements in it which may assist members of the Church to understand the two following aspects of prayer: (1) prayer form; and (2) prayer content. It is understood that prayer should be appropriate to the occasion, and it should come from the heart. Particularly where members of the Church are called upon to offer public prayers in behalf of those assembled in meetings, there is suggested the need to use language which expresses the purpose of the prayer.

In a study of this dedicatory prayer, one should not consider that all things for which a person should pray are mentioned, because of the special purpose of this prayer. One can learn, however, many important points about prayer which may be bene-

ficial. This revelation is the model for the dedication of temples and other structures in the Church.

PRAYER CONTENT

Some members of the Church are concerned as to how they can keep their daily prayers from becoming formal and trite. If one prays for individual needs only, there is a reason for reviewing the many possibilities for which one might sincerely pray. Section 109 gives many of these points. Some of these elements are as follows: (1) purpose; (2) expression of gratitude; (3) remembrance of others; (4) protection and assistance; (5) forgiveness of sin; (6) the Church and the gospel.

Class Discussion

What is the proper prayer language?

PURPOSE

Frequently members of the Church who represent a group or congregation in giving the invocation, mention the purpose for which the meeting is being held. Sometimes reference is made to the faith and diligence of those present.

In the dedicatory prayer one reads a review of the events in the building of the Kirtland Temple. The fulfillment of the commandment to build the temple is mentioned (D&C 109:1-4) and the tribulations experienced amid poverty, "that the Son of Man might have a place to manifest himself to his people" (Ibid., 109: 5). President Sidney Rigdon gave a two and one-half hour address during the service, the purpose of which was to compare the privations and hardships of the people in building the temple with that

861

November 1967

of the saints during the time of the Savior. (Life of Heber C. Kimball, p. 90.) The Prophet also prayed, as we do, for success in a calling, that the solemn assembly commanded to be held, might be acceptable. (Ibid., 109:6-13.)

REMEMBER THE MISSIONARIES

Those members of the Church who have had members of their families serve as missionaries, or who themselves have been on missions for the Church, or who may have been converted through the labors of missionaries, have a strong feeling for the success of those who labor in the mission field. All members of the Church who have a sincere desire for the growth of the Church are anxious to have the Lord's power with his servants. Many verses in the dedicatory prayer are devoted to this subject.

The desire of the Prophet was that nothing which would thwart the progress of the Church would be successful. That those who lied or published slanderous material against the saints might be confounded, was a part of that petition. (Ibid., 109:24-33.)

Before the saints had established Kirtland, Ohio, as a gathering place, the Lord promised that when his servants were endowed there would be a gathering to the bosom of the Church. (Ibid., 38:38.) This endowment would be such that they would be taught from on high to perform missionary work. (Ibid., 43:16.)

With the temple built, the great missionary program would be inaugurated.

Apparently the endowment referred to in reference to the Kirt-

land Temple was an outpouring of the Holy Ghost. The Prophet prayed for this blessing for those who would go forth to preach the gospel. (Ibid., 109:22-23, 35, 42.)

Class Discussion

How important is it that you pray for the missionaries in your daily prayers?

REMEMBER THE SUFFERING SAINTS

The Prophet prayed that the actions of wicked men against the saints would cease, and that their persecutors might repent of their wicked ways. (D&C 109:45-53.)

The persecution suffered by the saints of the Missouri period consisted of both physical and mental persecution. Although the saints today do not receive persecution from arms or the loss of homes and a lack of the necessities of life, still, in some mission fields, there is possible loss of employment and some forms of ostracism. Latter-day Saints throughout the world may well pray for their fellow members that persecution may cease, but that if tribulations come, they may be able to withstand them.

REMEMBER THE HEADS OF GOVERNMENTS

Latter-day Saints are known as a peace-loving people. They wait for the day when there will be a permanent peace with the coming of the Savior. (Ibid., 101:26.)

They have been commanded, also, to renounce war and to seek peace through the turning of the hearts of the children to the fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the children. (Ibid., 98:16-17.) This admonition to preach the gospel that peace may be generated in

862
