[Vol54 | November 1967 | Page 844 | Home | November Alda | L. Brown]
[November Alda L. Brown]

844 A MULTI-TALENTED WORKER Ida Noble, Denver Fifth Ward, Denver South Stake, Colorado, has done handiwork for many years. While knitting and quilting are her specialties, she is very adept at making pillows, crochet work, and aprons with outstanding appliqué features. Sister Noble has donated much of her time and talent toward making Relief Society bazaars a success. Among the accomplishments of which she is most proud, are the several dresses she has knitted. Sister Noble is seventy-nine years old and has enjoyed visiting teaching for more than twenty-five years. For the past five years she has served as homemaking leader in her ward. 845 Gauntlet Janet W. Breeze Chapter 3 SYNOPSIS: Nancy Jackson, a dance instructor and mother of two children, is just opening a dance studio in her remodeled home, when her husband, Grant, tells her that he wants to accept a teaching assignment on the island of Saipan. Reluctantly, Nancy accepts her husband's decision and makes plans for the journey. An official letter arrives, changing the assignment to the island of Truk. ¢ Riding in the Trust Territory's DC-4 through cotton-puff clouds reminded Nancy of riding on a horse. If you went up and down when it did, you had it made. And if you didn't? Well—it couldn't last forever. "Nan?" Grant leaned across the aisle and whispered to her. "You feel all right?" "Do I have to answer that?" "No. It's a little different from the jetliners, isn't it?" "I felt all right until I saw that little red fire engine swing out to follow us down the runway, at the airport in Guam." "Routine." "Grant?" "H'm?" "Do you think it will be that hot in Truk? I mean, like Guam? When we first stepped off the plane, I couldn't even breathe. What will we do if it's that way in Truk?" 846 "I'm sure it won't be. Besides, any time you step from air conditioning into the heat, it sort of smothers you at first." Nancy stroked Amy's head and looked across the aisle to where Grant was holding Skipper. "We're lucky they have slept so well," she said. Grant nodded in agreement. Then a quizzical frown on his face led Nancy to look across the aisle at the seat back of him. He mouthed the words, trying not to let anyone hear what he said. Nancy giggled and held her hand up to the side of her mouth. "Live chickens," she whispered. "Routine." As the vintage engines roared above the painted blue of the Pacific, Nancy closed her eyes— sometimes dozing, sometimes thinking ahead. She wanted to feel that what they were doing was a step forward. But somehow she couldn't escape the feeling that they had just given up everything to go thirty years into the past. It wasn't riding on a well-worn plane with live chickens that made her feel this way. The idea had possessed her even when they Throw Down the Gauntlet had said goodbye to their family and friends at home. They had all been there—everyone who meant so_much to her. She had wanted ~ to smile and say goodbye with great confidence. But when the time came to walk through the concourse gate out onto the field, she hadn't been able to look back. She couldn't let them see her cry. She couldn't let them see how unsure she still was of the whole idea. Now a friendly Micronesian dressed in dark trousers and spotless white shirt stepped through the door at the front of the aisle. "Please to fasten your safety belts,' he said. "We landing soon."