[Vol54 | November 1967 | Page 872 | Home | Social Relations—Do I Live What I Say? Alberta | H. Christensen]
[Social Relations—Do I Live What I Say? Alberta H. Christensen]

T loved to choose and see my path; but now Lead Thou me on! I loved the garish day, and, spite of fears, Pride ruled my will; remember not past years. So long Thy power hath blest me, sure it still will lead me on, O'er moor and fen, o'er crag and torrent, till the night is gone; And with the morn those angel faces smile Which I have loved long since, and lost awhile. Questions and Thoughts for Discussion - 1. What does the "Kindly Light" in line one symbolize? 2 What does Newman mean in line three when he says "The night is dark, and I am far from home''? 3. Note how in stanza two the poet reviews his past years, when his faith was weak, and when he lived in worldliness and pride, relying upon his worldly self rather than upon spiritual faith. 4. Note also how in stanza three, after overcoming the worldliness of stanza two, he relies on obedience to the spirit for both earthly and eternal guidance. What does "the morn" in the next-to-last line symbolize? And what is the implication of the last two words of the poem? TWO POEMS The next two selections in this month's lesson are poems by two 

873 November 1967

 gifted Latter-day Saint writers. The first of these, '""To Utah" by Edward L. Hart, is perhaps the best poem yet written on the westward movement of the Mormon pioneers and the colonization of Utah and adjacent areas. In artistry it is excellent, with a skilled control of those devices that combine to make exciting poetry—rhyme, alliteration, assonance, delayed rhythms, symbolism, varied metrical patterns, with just enough balance between simplicity and complexity to both communicate and challenge. (For those readers 'who do not have a copy of Volume 3 of Out of the Best Books, this poem was printed in full in the July 1964 issue of The Improvement Era. It also won special recognition by the Utah State Institute of Fine Arts in 1963 and has been set to choral music by Robert Cundick, Salt Lake Tabernacle organist.) Note how much is woven into the poem. In Section I we have mostly description of the scorching Utah valleys wanted by no one except the Mormons—a scorned people in a scorned land. In Section II Salt Lake City is laid out, the central dream of a new empire, both earthly and spiritual, both temporal and eternal. Section III recalls the varied ways in which the pioneers arrived, with tragedy and joy intermixed in their journeyings, and with a vibrant faith anchored in obedience both to God and to their earthly leaders. Then comes the anguish of Section IV as the saints are threatened with destruction by a federal government that does not understand their faith or their customs; rather than yield they will destroy all 874 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keepi

ng alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in' a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah 0 a> that they have built and start anew in some other land. But note their courage, their strength, their determination to be loyal to their convictions and their leaders at whatever cost. Finally, the crisis over, in Section V and VI the building of an inland empire continues—first the physical building, with Salt Lake City serving as the hub of a wheel of expansion from which the saints move outward in all directions along the spokes, obedient to the instructions of Brigham Young; then the spiritual building, symbolized in the erection out of granite of the great temple. The central theme is obedience—obedience to the Church leaders, obedience to conscience, and obedience to God. Although the poem, in six sections, is too long to appear in full here, we print one section (Sec- COOK ELECT RIC Pots and pans stay 'white glove'' clean If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Tour-ific! MEXICO Monthly HAWAII November 17 December 28 ROSE PARADE EUROPE June, 1968, $980 For all travel and ticketing arrangements AGARET ly, RNS TRAVEL INC. East 2ne Seuth Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245-6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 Lesson Department tion 3, The Gathering) to suggest its qualities and power: They came by thousands at a slow clip, All but those buried at Haun's Mill Or Florence or some place that the lip Of man had no name for yet to trip The tongue of the young, who wanted still To find home over the next hill Or lush pastures past each desert strip. They came over the mountains and around The Horn! In ships and wagons, or dragged Handcarts over stony and _ frozen ground, Often opened and shoveled in a mound Upon women and children or the man who lagged In his shafts only on the day he sagged In death on the crosspiece: Zion bound. The other selection consists of two excerpts from 'The Mantle of the Prophet," a verse play by Clinton F. Larson, who has written twenty other plays based mostly on Latter-day Saint history, Latter-day Saint theology, or other religious subject-matter. Although the excerpts are too long to print here, a few comments on them will undoubtedly be interesting. "The Mantle of the Prophet" dramatizes the anguish of the saints following the martyrdom of Joseph Smith and their eventual rallying behind the great leadership of Brigham Young, President of the Council of the Twelve. The two brief scenes printed in our text show, first the heartbroken resolution of the sorrowing Brigham Young to follow as best he can the leadership of the martyred Prophet and, second (later, lThe southern tip of South America (Cape Horn), around which some sailed instead of crossing the plains. 

875 November 1967

 during the Conference of the Church on 8 August 1844), the now strong, faith-filled determination of Brigham Young to lead the people westward. Both scenes are filled with the spirit of obedience, to follow the will of God and his earthly prophets. "DORA" BY TENNYSON The fourth selection in this month's lesson is a short story in poetry, "Dora" by Alfred, Lord Tennyson (1809-1892). The poem is included for study partly because its straightforward story will appeal to many readers who are not attracted to more complicated poetry and partly because through it we can explore some significant aspects of obedience. Most of all it presents a father who tried to."command" obedience in his son and others—with disastrous consequences. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Analyze Farmer Allen's personality and character. 2. Discuss the reasons for William's rebelliousness. 3. What does the poem as a whole tell us about the wrong and right methods for parents to teach obedience to their children? "CLAY" BY JAMES JOYCE The fifth selection is a brilliant short story by the great Irish writer James Joyce (1882-1941). The story has many complexities and rich subtleties, both in artistry and in meaning; but above all it is the characterization of Maria, a lonely woman with a dull, drab life who pitiably yields to every pressure upon her as other people manipulate her as if she were a piece of plastic clay. Careful study 876 DISCOVER THE MAGIC tri-ehem Ms uid I. Sood a 2 GUARANTEES "then OR REFUND 19 ca New Nylon Tip. \ = Fountain Brush FREE e Instructions ¢ Demonstrations e Service On Old Tubes Catalogues Available ~ 185 W. Center - BOUNTIFUL, UTAH 295-6033 or 376-2912 ROSE PARADE TOURS Via San Diego Via San Francisco Dec. 26 - Jan.2 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Proudly « Announce *A\RECORDS. Nt nictents Ean) of THE MAGNIFICENT MORMON SOUND Album of Sacred Songs In Stereo and Mono WITH DOT AND JIMMY VAUGHN Available At Your Record Stores Have you heard these SONGS FOR SINGING MOTHERS? TO A CHILD Solo—Alto or Sec. $.50 Trio—SSA 50 Record—33'4, RPM 1.50 SONG OF LOVE: Solo—Sop. Or Sec. 50 Duet—Sop. & Alto 50 CROSSING THE BAR Trio—SSA 50 THE BATTLE LINE OF HOME Trio—SSA 50 CLAIM THOU MY HEART Trio—SSA 50 I CRIED WHEN I SANG OF THE BABES IN THE WOOD Trio—SSA 50 A TREE STOOD TALL Trio—SSA 50 SPECIAL RATES FOR BULK ORDERS Dealers' Wholesale Orders Welcome Zee Ora Pate Stewart: pi 11282 Anabel Ave. ~ Garden Grove, California 92640 Lesson Department of this challenging story should give one of the most rewarding ventures in literature. _-We have included "Clay" in the section on obedience because it points out we should be sensitive to and obedient to the righteous desires of those we love. Obedience, however, does not mean that we should have no will, no inner strength, yielding to every pressure from without, twisted and shaped like a piece of mud or molding clay. Obedience does not mean loss of individuality, integrity, dignity, and self-direction. In being obedient to those we love, we should also be careful that their desires for us are not evil or petty; for if we have to choose between obedience to God and obedience to man, our choice is clear. "A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS" The last selection in this section on obedience is Robert Bolt's Academy-award-winning drama A Man for All Seasons. Because the play so profoundly and powerfully emphasizes obedience to principle, we include a brief discussion of it here. The play centers around the life of Sir Thomas More (1478- 1535)—statesman, scholar, humanist, and writer during the Renaissance. In public life he was one of the most esteemed leaders of his time, first as a member of Parliament, and ultimately as Lord Chancellor of England. Although More had been a friend of King Henry VIII, he refused to take an oath to the Act of Supremacy acknowledging the King to be the supreme authority of the English Church, a maneuver King Henry felt necessary in or- 

877 November 1967

 der to circumvent the Pope's refusal to permit him to divorce Queen Catherine and marry Anne Boleyn. More was a_ devout churchman and felt that he could not sign the Act of Supremacy, for which he was beheaded as a traitor in 1535. Thomas More is surrounded on all sides by a world of corruption, conspiracy, compromise, bribery, threats, intrigue, and conflicting allegiances. As one of the characters says, "Every man has his price."' But More has no price! Although a mild and mellow man, he will not violate principle at any cost. He will use every maneuver "within honor" to save himself and his family, but he will not betray his conscience no matter what the consequences. The key to all his actions is obedience to a ''clear conscience."' Even when the pressures are massive against him, he will not betray his obedience to principle and conscience. Others may live by the rule "Better a live rat than a dead lion," but not More. Although he has enjoyed the cultured life of a scholar-gentleman, not even imprisonment and the threat of torture will make him compromise his true principles. Friends, loved ones, everybody presses him to compromise, but he will not yield, not even to preserve an old friendship nor save his family from suffering. In their efforts to persuade him his family remind him that he 878 has always told them, ""God more regards the thoughts of the heart than the words of the mouth." Margaret pleads, "Then say the words of the oath, and in your heart think otherwise." But More answers, "What is an oath, then, but words that we say to God?" At the end of the play More is found guilty of high treason and beheaded. At any moment even to the very last he could have saved himself by merely saying a few words. But he dies knowing he has been true to his convictions. This is not only a great play but a play with a great message, as the following "questions for discussion" will help emphasize: Questions for Discussion 1. In planning our lives we need to be wisely obedient, not just blindly, foolishly, or selfishly obedient. In the world are many people who are obedient to the wrong masters and the wrong standards. That is why the moral courage of Sir Thomas More stands out so nobly throughout the play. 2. In our own lives must we sometimes choose between allegiances or the pressures of social groups or customs or even those we love in order to be obedient to the principles we know to be right? 8. Point out some traditions in your own cultural heritage that should be followed and others that should be resisted. 4. Thomas More disciplines his life totally through obedience to the whisperings of his conscience. How do we need to live in order to rely safely upon "conscience" as a guide? History of 1842-1966 A gift for every Latter-day Saint woman to be treasured in all seasons— Especially as a Christmas gift IS w g " g be R 5 w 6 Ss:; @The illuminated pathway of the World-Wide Sisterhood from its divine origin in Nauvoo, Illinois, to the present time. Relief Society women in the covered wagons on the plains — in the Valleys of the Mountains — in many States and Nations encircling the globe. Biographical Sketches of the General Presidents — narratives of the origin and development of the various departments, objectives and aspirations of Relief Society. Includes the material published in A Centenary of Relief Society (1942), out of print for many years, and brings the history up to the close of 1966. Beautifully Illustrated in Color, supplemented by numerous black and white photographs 144 pages — size 9x12 inches — Gold-lettered and Edition Bound in Cloth Comprehensive Index included Price $4.00, postpaid Orders received at the office of The General Board of Relief Society 76 North Main = Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 By tdlay Cory ws 108