[Vol54 | November 1967 | Page 830 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

Volume 54 

830 November 1967

 Number 11 = Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor = Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor ® Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Eltiott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner {rene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia!. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola }. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous As the birthday season of the Christ Child approaches, there seems to be a spirit of good will which laves the atmosphere of the Christmas world. The very air seems to breathe the promise of the angels 'and on earth peace, good will toward men,' in spite of wars and troublous times. This is felt by all who open their minds and hearts to the significance of Christmas. A mother wishes to be able to give to her children those material gifts which they desire, but far beyond that she wishes for them the gifts of the spirit which will enrich their lives eternally. In the month before Christmas, before the rush begins, a mother may sit down with pencil and paper, if desired, and list gifts she would bestow as she: evaluates where she stands in their giving. They will not be gifts for which the children clamor, in all probability, in fact, they will not realize their need for these gifts, but from the knowledge of each child which a mother possesses, she will select varying priceless gifts to bestow upon them. To one she may need to show more patient conduct, to another a sterner attitude for accomplishing work, to a third more understanding and tolerance, to a fourth more attention to childish confidences. The list may be long and it will require close attention as the year passes to meet the differing needs in each child's development. The greatest creativity is needed by a mother in thus analyzing and motivating herself. These are gifts which a mother bestows on her children through her own self-discipline. Another outpouring of gifts which she gives them is the tender training to enable them to improve themselves, to overcome their weaknesses—to see that Mary treats her sister Jane better, that Jim realizes the importance of telling the truth, that Helen keeps her room clean. A mother in relating her Christmas memories of childhood in the long ago reminisced: As I watch the tiny sparks [of an old Franklin stove] fly upward, I realize my childish love and eager desire for gifts have vanished with the sparks. But there remains with me the memory of the walks when I grudgingly took my basket and trudged through the deep snow to those humble cottages where lived those forgotten souls who were the last links in their family circles. I hear again their "God bless you, my dear, for the happiness you have brought to us this day.'' 1 feel to say, ''God bless those who implanted in my heart this true spirit of Christmas."' So one who is a child today, may, in his mature years, likewise evaluate the gifts of grace bestowed on him by his mother in implanting in him the true spirit of Christmas, and find as a result he has completed his own journey to Bethlehem and can present his gift to the Savior of a broken heart and a contrite spirit. —M. C. S. 831 There's More to Christmas «Sarah surveyed the stack of gaily wrapped Christmas gifts lying on the davenport beside her. Why, she thought, do we mortals go to so much expense when it puts such a strain on the budget? Wouldn't it be better to exchange simple gifts, and then dwell more on the true meaning of Christmas? She sighed. The family wouldn't agree with her — probably, not even the adults, let alone the children. She was simply exhausted from the days and days spent in shopping for just the right gift for Aunt Sue, and her sister Jane, who had everything already. Her two children Davey and Debbie gave her particular instructions as to the type of gift she should buy them, without regard to cost. She could go on and on. 832 Helen H. Trutton Then there had been the task of housecleaning, the polishing of the tarnished silver, and the baking of goodies for the feast tomorrow. Dale's sister, Camille, had thought it best for Sarah to have the family gathering at her place this year, even though it wasn't Sarah's turn. She wasn't sure they were right. After Dale's death last June, she had soon learned that she could be lonely in a crowded room, or on a busy street. But one thing they were right about, she had been kept busy the past few weeks. Sarah stood up. They still had to go to the mountains to get a Christmas tree. When Dale was living, going to the beautiful forest of whispering pines was fun, especially for the children. The two of them would run through the white sparkling snow, squealing with joy at the beauty about them, picking first a lush green tree, only to find that just beyond was an even more magnificient one. Finally, she or Dale would settle on a tree, or the quest would go on without end. Sarah dreaded the trip today, but she must not disappoint the children —the outing had become traditional with them. The kitchen door swung open, and Davey stood grinning at her. "Say, Mom," he said. "'Shouldn't we be on our way to the mountains? We have to be at Aunt Camille's place at seven for the Christmas party, and opening presents and stuff." "The tree should be all up and decorated," she said. "I've simply been too busy. Maybe since we're so late in going to the mountains...." Davey interrupted her. "Oh, Mom, let's go and get our tree like always. Can't we?" She sat back down on the davenport. ""We may not be able to manage alone—without your father." He came over to her side, and draped his arm around her shoulders. "I'm twelve, Mom. I can cut down a tree real easy. See my muscles," he said, exposing his arm. "Of course you can," she smiled back at him. "All right, but bundle up, and tell your sister to get ready." "Thanks," he called at the hall entrance. "Be back in a minute." She moved from the davenport to the closet, and took her heaviest coat from the rack. It would be cold in the hills. The first snows had already come to the high peaks. In fact, from the window she could see the entire mountains were blanketed in white, breathtaking beauty. "Ts something wrong, Mother?" Debbie suddenly appeared beside her. "No, dear," she answered. "I was just admiring the winter wonderland." "Just think, we'll be up there in about an hour," Debbie said, looking up at the mountains. "We'll find the most beautiful Christmas tree in the whole forest." "With my help," Davey said, walking into the room. 'Cutting down a tree is a man's job." "Supposing we all count on helping," Sarah cut in. "Here, let me check you both." She moved back as Davey and Debbie stood ready for inspection as they had done in years past. "I've got my red boots on, heavy pants, and my warm mackinaw jacket,"' Davey recited rapidly, 'and my stocking cap. How's that, Mom?" "You pass." "And look at me,'' Debbie said. Sarah slipped her arms around the two of them. "I think we are prepared for the North Pole," she laughed. "Shall we go?" There was no traffic on the road. Either everyone had already made the trek to the woods in search of just the right tree, or they had purchased one at the many spots in town where they were being offered for sale. As they came near to the foothills, the murky sky began to spit snowflakes spasmodically. She had nothing to worry about, the cabin where they always stopped 

833 November 1967

 was located on a good road. She would insist that they stay near the cabin—there were plenty of choice trees close by. Davey finally broke into her thoughts. "See that big tree up on the hill,'"' he pointed off across country. "That's the one I'm going to chop down." "May we, Mother?" asked. "No, it's too large for our house, and this year, we'll find one near the cabin where we park every year." "Aw, Mom." Davey pulled a face. "Mom's right," Debbie agreed. "We haven't much time if we get to Aunt Camille's on time." "Yeah, I know," he said. "We can't be late, no matter what. I can hardly wait to open my presents.". "Is that more important than hunting for the very right tree?" Debbie asked. "Sure," he answered. "Look," Sarah said, motioning to an old farmhouse not far from the road. "Someone still lives there. See the smoke spiraling up from the chimney. Your father used to say we would stop by sometime—it seems so_ lonely there." "But not today," Davey added quickly. ""We'd be late." '"'And maybe the people aren't even friendly,' Debbie said. "'We should sometime, when we aren't in such a hurry." Sarah said. She couldn't help envying the family, or whoever lived in the old unpainted house, their exquisite surroundings. Red and golden bushes, painted by Jack Frost, were nodding gently as fresh-fallDebbie 834 en snowdrops bowed them toward the earth all along the road, and billows and billows of snowbanks stretched off into the distance. It was a beautiful sight! Some few miles farther, and the cabin came into sight. She had barely stopped the car before Davey and Debbie were out of the vehicle, axe in hand, laughing and talking, and running around like two wild Indians. "Oh, Mother," Debbie exclaimed. "It's hard to choose the best one. They're all so perfect." "Girls,'"' Davey chided. "They don't know a good tree when they see one." Sarah watched them stop to examine each tree, then hurry on to the next one, shouting in excited tones, words she could not quite make out because the wind hid their voices. "Remember, don't get out of sight of the cabin," she yelled. Debbie waved back. ""We won't, Mother." She looked about her. She loved the solitude of the hills. Somehow the hustle and bustle of her busy life, and the exhaustion she had felt earlier in the day slid into oblivion; she felt close to God. "Mom," Davey's strong voice reached her. "We found a real beauty." "Oh, Mom," Debbie's voice echoed his. "It's just perfect." When she reached them, Davey yanked off his mackinaw and held it out to her to hold. "Take the coat, Mom, J'll have this cut in a jiffy," he said. With the Christmas tree soon cut, she helped the youngsters load and tie it in the back of the vehicle. Then the three of them piled into the front seat of the car, and she turned on the ignition key and stepped on the starter. Nothing happened, so Sarah tried again. "We're out of gas," groaned. "No," she answered. "We had a full tank when we left home." "What then?" Debbie asked. "It's the battery—it's dead I'm afraid." "Wow, Mom!" Davey leaned across his sister. ""What are we going to do? We can't be late at Aunt Camille's." "Fix it," Debbie said confidently. "Silly," Davey answered her. "You don't just fix a battery— way up here in the mountains." "What do you do with them?" "You get them recharged, or a new one. What will we do, Mom?" "I know," Debbie said. 'We can spend Christmas Eve right here in the old cabin." She started to open the door of the car. "It would be fun." Davey "And miss Aunt Camille's party? I should say not." Sarah shuddered. "Well, we can't stay in the cabin. It hasn't been used for years." "Davey's right, we have to get to Aunt Camille's. It wouldn't be Christmas without getting lots of presents." "Children," Sarah said slowly, "you know that old house back down the road?" "It's too far," Debbie grumbled. "Are you sure it's the battery, Mom?" Davey asked. "Yes, come on; we might as well start walking." Sarah glanced up often at the jagged white-capped peaks towering above them like monstrous giants as they trudged down the deserted road. The hills were still beautiful, mighty—and frightening. Supposing a blizzard struck suddenly, storms did come quickly in the mountains she knew. "How much farther?" Debbie whined. "My legs ache." "Hurry," Davey told her. "They won't wait for us at Auntie's." "I can't walk any farther," Debbie cried. "Are we about to that old house, Mother?" "I know," Sarah tried to sound enthusiastic. ""We can talk about the many things we are grateful for this Christmas season. There's more to Christmas than just presents." "Sure, Mom," Davey grumbled. "When you were little, you read every week to your blind aunt for her Christmas present, because you didn't have any money to buy her anything. But what have we got to be grateful for way out here? Supposing a bear comes out of the woods! What then?" 

835 November 1967

 "We'd miss Aunt Camille's Christmas Eve party forever. Oh, Mom—how much farther is it?" Debbie wailed. "Aunt Mabel really enjoyed that gift," Sarah said firmly. "We have so much—our comfortable home waiting for us. We have each other, and friends and relatives we love." Neither Davey nor Debbie answered as the three of them walked in single file as much as possible in the car tracks made earlier, with only the sound of crunching snow under their feet, and the cold whistling of the north wind in the pine trees. Dusk was creeping over the forest now; shadows appeared unexpectedly in their path. Several times Sarah had to hold her cold hands against her mouth to keep from screaming. Bears had been seen in the mountains —- maybe they weren't all in hibernation. Her legs were tired, and she was cold. "Are you all right?" she called frequently to Davey and Debbie. They barely spoke now—survival was utmost in their thoughts, she knew. And then she heard Debbie cry excitedly, '"There's the old house, Mom."; "Hurrah!"' Davey's cheer echoed in the cold stillness. "Now we can have them drive us to town and Aunt Camille's." A plain-looking woman answered the knock. At first she looked startled at seeing them standing on her porch. "You are almost frozen," she finally said, opening the door wide for them to enter. "Please come in." Sarah explained their predica- 836 ment as briefly as possible, then asked, "Do you have a telephone that I might call my brother-inlaw about our car?' The woman shook her head. "The lines are all down," she said. "But—but you can borrow our car if you will take my husband to the hospital. He's very ill." Sarah looked at the woman a moment. ''Why—yes," she said. "But don't you want to go with him? I could stay here if you'll take my two with you and leave them with their aunt." "I never learned to drive a car," she answered, ''and I couldn't ask so much, but please, please, take my husband to the hospital." Sarah looked at the woman's children. "Could we take them with us?" "Our little girl has a severe cold; I wouldn't dare expose her to the weather. My husband would never consent. But won't you...?" "Of course we'll take your husband," Sarah said kindly. The woman's face softened. "Thank you, thank you," she said over and over again. "I'll get him ready." And she hurriedly left the room. Sarah felt deep empathy for this woman whom she had never met before. If only there were a way that she could go with her husband to the hospital. They needed each other at a time like this. She thought about the day Dale became ill and was rushed to the hospital — if she couldn't have gone with him, been with him every possible moment? But what could she do? The woman couldn't drive a car, and she couldn't leave her children, so there was really nothing she could do. Nothing at all! A short time later the woman returned to the room with her husband leaning heavily on her." He stopped and smiled faintly at them. He was not wearing a coat. "Thank you," he said, "for your kindness. Take the car. Perhaps tomorrow I will be better." "No, no, you must go," his wife insisted. "Please." "But, dear," he said slowly, then stopped as if to regain his strength. "I can't leave...." At that moment, Davey moved unexpectedly to the man's side and said. ''Please, both of you go. I'll stay here." "So will I," Debbie added. "I'm thirteen and we'll take good care of them. Mom, tell them we can do it." For one brief instant, the woman's face brightened, then faded. "TY couldn't ruin your Christmas. But thank you." Sarah gasped. She hadn't even thought of that possibility. Even now she couldn't believe Davey and Debbie meant what they had just said. Miss the evening at Aunt Camille's? They wouldn't! Davey apparently saw the disbelief showing on Sarah's face, for he came quickly to her side and smiled self-consciously up at her. "Well, sure, Mom," he said seriously.