[Vol54 | November 1967 | Page 829 | General Feature | Editorial: Gifts of a Mother Marianne | C. Sharp]
up intimately and directly in her own behalf."' Mrs. Margaret D. Shepherd, photograph librarian at the Utah State Historical Society for the past ten years, was recently awarded, in national competition, a special scholarship by the American Association for State and Local History. The scholarship consists, among other educational and cultural opportunities, free attendance, in Portland, Oregon, at a seminar on administration of historical agencies and museums. Billie Jean King, Long Beach, California, housewife, in July, won the title of World's Number One Woman Tennis Player at Wimbledon in England. A packed gallery of 17,000 gave the twenty-three-year-old American woman a standing ovation. Louise Bogan, poet and critic, was the only woman among "'five distinguished senior American writers'' to receive one of the $10,000 individual awards from the National Endowment for the Arts in 1967. Miss Bogan has been rated by many critics as the best contemporary American lyric poet. Elva Bean of Blanchard, lowa, has served fifty-five years as a meter reader for the Missouri Power Company, and is still making her rounds at the age of seventy-seven. She also delivers papers. "All this walking,'' Miss Blanchard says, "keeps my joints from creaking and getting stiff."' Phyllis Curtain, Metropolitan Opera star (dramatic soprano), wife and mother, loves to cook. Among her relatives and friends, she is famous for a_ special soup. Born in Virginia, the singer specializes in Southern cooking, including many kinds of rolls and bread. Susanne K. Langer, who has already written two books on the nature of art, has now published a third, ''Mind: an Essay on Human Feeling' (Johns Hopkins). She says that we learn from a true artist ''what an emotional reality of greatest stretch can be," as in ''Medea,'"' ''King Lear,'' Beethoven's "Ninth Symphony," Michelangelo's "Moses." Kate Simon has written three readable, informative, and evocative guidebooks on New York, Mexico, and Paris. The last, 'Paris Places and Pleasures'' (Putman), is the best. All stir nostalgic delight in rereading after visiting these fascinating places. Mrs. Clydia Mae Richardson, who has been Chief of Presidential Commissions since 1943, was born and reared on a cattle ranch in South Dakota. She stamps State documents with the Great Seal of the United States. Adopted in 1782, the design of the seal is also on dollar bills.

EDITORIAL Gifts of a Wiother « (( We: ——— jf (( 4 Ay ''And when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts; gold, and frankincense, and myrrh." Most precious worldly treasures were presented to the Christ Child by those who were also rich in wisdom, and who journeyed to Bethlehem. They came worshiping but did not know that the gift requested of them in the future by the Christ would not be worldly treasures but a broken heart and a contrite spirit.
