[Vol54 | November 1967 | Page 815 | Poem | To "Give For" Elizabeth | Cottam Walker]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

STEADFAST
Gilean Douglas

How many winters must have come to fling
their might against the pine's eternal spring.

HAL RUMEL

REPORT AND
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

President Belle S. Spafford

[Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967.]

♦It is with deep appreciation for the devoted efforts of Relief Society leaders and members alike, and with thankfulness to our Heavenly Father for his blessings, that I bring to you today a brief report of the growth and general accomplishments of Relief Society during the calendar year 1966, together with a few instructions, recommendations, and cautions from the General Board. Practically all aspects of the work of the Society during the last calendar year showed gratifying gains. In the few instances where decreases were recorded, they may be explained by changing circumstances or changes in procedures. For example, the number of visits made to families in need by ward Relief Society presidents under the direction of the respective bishops decreased by more than 10,000. Undoubtedly this was due to the fact that emphasis is now being placed by the General Priesthood Welfare Committee on the initial visit being made by the bishops themselves, with only follow-up visits being made by Relief Society presidents.

MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE

At the close of 1966, there were 301,248 sisters enrolled in the Society, an increase of 14,428, each of whom may grow in testimony, be strengthened in service to her family, her sisters, her Church, and her community, through her participation in the program of the Society.

In spite of the demands made upon the time of women today, particularly women who are employed outside their homes, and regardless of the enticements that would draw the sisters away from Relief Society, the average attendance at regular Relief Society meetings increased by over 5,000. Second session Relief Societies, no doubt, were an important factor in the increase.

816
