[Vol56 | October 1969 | Page 746 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
ve the first shots available. Ramona W. Cannon Jan Armstrong, Joan Aldrin, and Pat Collins, wives of the three astronauts of the Apollo XI Mission, and the spacemen's mothers: Mrs. Stephen Armstrong, Mrs. Edwin Eugene Aldrin, Senior, and Mrs. James Collins, were the focus of interest, sympathy, and prayers of women of the world last July as their husbands and sons flew through boundless space. Humanity waited with almost unbearable suspense until Neil Armstrong planted the first human footprint on the moon, remarking, ''One small step for a man, a giant leap for mankind.''We salute these women whose lives and examples have influenced their famous sons and husbands. The women displayed great courage and patience while waiting. Princess Sophie of Greece, wife of Prince Juan Carlos de Bourbon y Bourbon, grandson of the last King of Spain, will presumably become Queen of Spain upon the death or incapacitation of Generalissimo Francisco Franco, dictator of Spain. Franco and the parliament have agreed that Prince Juan shall become King of Spain as a_ constitutional monarchy, greatly modified in power and plan from the former Spanish monarchy. Sophie's son, one and one-half years old, will become next heir to the throne. Nea Norin, an Englishwoman who has climbed mountains in all parts of the world, eloquently narrates her extraordinary adventures in 'A Woman's Reach,"' a delight to read. Mrs. May Case of Clovis, California, ninety-one, still writes a weekly column for the Clovis Independent. She has been a newspaper reporter for seventy-six years, longer than any other woman in the United States. 745 EDITORIAL / What Shall the Harvest Be? A '' He [Jesus] went throughout every city and village, preaching and shewing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God: and the twelve were with him, And certain women... Which ministered unto him of their substance. ''And when much people were gathered together, and were come to him out of every city, he spake by a parable: '"'A sower went out to sow his seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way side; and it was trodden down, and the fowls-of the air devoured it. '"'And some fell upon a rock; and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away, because it lacked moisture. 'And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it.

[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

"And other fell on good ground, and sprang up, and bare fruit an hundredfold....'' (Luke 8:1, 3-8.) This, the first, and adjudged by many most perfect of the parables, was interpreted by its divine Author: Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God. Those by the way side are they that hear; then cometh the devil, and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. They on the rock are they, which, when they hear, receive the word with joy; and these have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away. And that which fell among thorns are they, which, when they have heard, go forth, and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection. But that on the good ground are they, which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience. (Luke 8:11-15.) In this day when evil is rampant, the parable of the sower has particular significance. The ''riches and pleasures of life'' are the temptations the devil uses to draw men's hearts from following after the Volume 56 October 1969 Number 10