[Vol56 | October 1969 | Page 792 | General Feature | Social Relations— Work— a Road to Personal Fulfillment Alberta | H. Christensen]
[Social Relations— Work— a Road to Personal Fulfillment Alberta H. Christensen]

es what he knows, thinks, and feels. 792 INTRODUCTORY COMMENTS From childhood, many of us have heard that "sticks and stones may break my bones but names can never hurt me." A far more accurate assessment of reality is given in the Apocrypha when we are reminded _ that "the stroke of the whip maketh marks in the flesh, but the stroke of the tongue breaketh the bones." Most physical pain is less excruciating than having someone we love and _ respect speak harshly to us. To feel unloved or unwanted is often more crippling than physical impairment. Perhaps modern _ research rightly emphasizes the role of communication in establishing positive human relationships. Such communication need not be in words—how rarely are our deepest feelings easily translated in speech—but we must use words to discuss non-verbal communication, so the importance of language in communication cannot be minimized. To concede this, however, is not to admit that the _ basic problem in poor communication is failure to convey information clearly. If this is assumed, we focus our attention so totally on methods of communication that we risk losing ends in means. Although it has been popular to assert recently that the medium we use is an integral part of the message we are trying to convey, it probably needs to be said also that an insignificant message belittles any medium that carries it. The word communication originally suggested sharing Lesson Department or making common an idea or an experience. If the idea we want to share can touch a positive chord in another's' background, the chances for successful communication are immeasurably increased. It is when we try to get through to those who do not share our ideals and values that we have extreme difficulty. It is probably not very accurate to speak of a "communication problem" under such circumstances, lest we assume that we need to refine our method rather than examine our beliefs. The selections we have chosen for this lesson make less effort to examine procedures than to assess results. "THE SECRET HEART" In the beginning poem "The Secret Heart" by Robert P. Tristram Coffin the father is hardly conscious of how deeply he is revealing his: love to a half-awake child. But the youngster's identification with his father is so total that he has no difficulty in interpreting the look on his parent's face. As the next to the last couplet suggests, the moment of illumination was not long, but it was enough to light "all about." The result of such a reassuring insight has been a lifetime of happy memories which are symbolized by a brief vision of his father's "secret heart." The tone of this tender poem helps us understand how prepared the boy was for his revelation. The real impact of this moment depends very little on the situation, even though it yields a symbol that is a memora- 

793 October 1969

 ble one. The kind of fatherson devotion that is evident here inevitably finds its expression. Question for Discussion Why is unqualified devotion difficult to hide? Comment on some of the less obvious ways in which we communicate our identification with that which we love. "ANOTHER APRIL" In "Another April" by Jesse Stuart we touch briefly on a number of communicative levels. The boy understands his childlike grandfather as only a child could. If his youthful candor is disconcerting, he sees without the restraints which experience imposes, and _ he reacts freely and openly, if also superficially. In the relationships of mother and child there are hints that the young boy understands far more than his simple conversation would suggest and that the mother senses this. Her relationship to her father is now a mildly ambiguous one: she must be both mother and daughter. She doesn't let her practical need to care for him destroy her sensitivity to what he has been to her and still is. The grandfather's relationship with the natural world he had seemed to control totally as a young man has become more passive, but possibly more discriminating. In the terrapin, the old man has a natural counterpart, a checkpoint in his renewed intercourse with the world which is the more preclous because it can no longer be taken for granted. 794 Question for Discussion The grandfather seems to have established meaningful relationships with everyone and everything in this story. Why has he been so successful? FROM 'THE AUTOCRAT OF THE BREAKFAST TABLE"' In this short essay Oliver Wendell Holmes helps us see that "full" communication may not be "good" communication. If we try to share sacred feelings with those who are not prepared to respect them, we may lend ourselves to grievous exploitation. A man or a woman is often as vulnerable as an open wound to a marriage partner. In our awareness of the totality of relationship that a good marriage demands, we must also be aware that there is no other human relationship that should ask so much. Letting down restraints in an attempt to understand associates is neither an automatic route to self-enlightenment or a guarantee of better inter-personal relationships. Limits of taste and self-respect should inhibit the intimacies we share. Confession is not a shortcut to that communication which is earned by trust, rooted in similar commitment, and justified by joint responsibility. Question for Discussion Why are we tempted to give keys to our "side-doors'" to those who might not use them appropriately? "CAN YOU GET ALONG WITH YOUR IN-LAWS?" In his popular version of a careful research study, "Can You Get Along With Your In-Laws?" Edward Fales provides persuasive evidence that all communication problems with inlaws appear to yield to loving acceptance by all concerned. The lists of "do's" and "don'ts" he provides are obviously the result of much experience, but, as he himself suggests, the "one greatest lesson" in the Cornell survey he is reporting on is that people who refused to think of their relatives as "in-laws" but only as "members of our family" were able to establish warm, happy relationships with them. Question for Discussion How can we prepare our own sons and daughters to realize that, in marrying, they marry a family as well as a person? "MARK TWAIN'S FAMILY LETTERS" The letters exchanged by Mark Twain and his wife, Livy, are difficult to match in all literature for tender concern and sensitivity to one another. Each almost aches with the desire to understand and help. Mark found it difficult to believe, and Livy was often embarrassed by his lack of taste. She helped him on both counts, some modern critics notwithstanding. Mark aided a gently spoiled child, who took herself very seriously, turn into a resourceful, stimulating woman. In these remarkable letters there is not only growth but a truly notable desire on the part of both to match that ideal that each has of the other. It Lesson Department is comforting to see how effective words, lovingly chosen, can be in encouraging personal development and fostering marital harmony. Excerpts from two letters follow: My dear, dear Livy: November 28, 1868 I do love, love, love you, Livy! My whole being is permeated, is renewed, is leavened with this love, and with every breath I draw its noble influence makes of me a better man. And I shall yet be worthy of your priceless love, Livy. It is the glad task of my life—it is the purest ambition and the most exalted that ever I have known, and [I shall never, never swerve from the path it has marked out for me Mark had early found that Livy was careless in her spelling. Up to this point he hadn't teased her about it, but he can't resist in talking to her about his sister: My sister is a good woman, familiar with grief, though bearing it bravely & giving no sign upon the surface; & she is kind-hearted, void of folly or vanity, perfectly unacquainted with deceit or dissimulation, diffident about her own faults, & slow to discover those of others. She isn't such a gem as you; (by a long shot) & neither is any other woman, but then she is a very, very excellent woman anyway. You'll like her, Livy— she don't seem to spell worth a cent. You see she spells cow with a K. And she has spelled "tripped" with only one p, & she puts only one t in "delighted," & only two s's in "expression," I can stand those little blunders well enough, but I do hate to see anybody spell John with a G. I look upon that as perfectly awful. I notice that you always spell John with a G.—Now forgive me, Livy, darling—you know I wouldn't poke fun at you to save a man's life if I thought it would wound you. I don't care a straw how you spell, Livy dear—I hardly ever notice when you make a mistake—& bless you I am just as proud of you as if you could 

795 October 1969

 beat the Unabridged dictionary spelling. It would be a pity indeed if I presumed to criticize your spelling—I who am sown as thick with faults as you are with merits, & shining virtues, & beautiful traits of character; & yet you have found it in your heart to take me just as I am & lift me up & bless me with your priceless love—I never can be your critic, my loved and honored Livy. Question for Discussion How much do you think the repeated assertions of love by Mark Twain and his wife actually contributed to that love? With "Neighbor Rosicky" we conclude our discussion of communication on a highly encouraging note. As the ideals and values of the characters in this fine story come together, effective communication flourishes. Although, Anton Rosicky and his wife, Mary, have worked out most of their adjustments before this account begins, the series of flashbacks, by which part of this story is told, lets us see some of the circumstances that aided their developing unity. It is important to note that years of marriage have not blunted the Rosickys' sensitivity to each other's whims: Anton caters to his wife's sweet tooth, and she has something hot ready for him when he returns from town. Real marital harmony, however, is not built on indulgence. Shared principle is at the base of the Rosickys' strength. Perhaps this is best exemplified in the scene near the end of section two. As the creamery agent tries to persuade them to sell him their cream, Mrs. Rosicky declares emphatically that 796 she would rather "put some color into my children's faces than put money into the bank." The agent merely turns to Mr. Rosicky to get the real decision, knowing that it is usually the husband's_ word that really counts among the newly emigrated families with whom he does business. "I guess we'll do like she says," said Rosicky. The developing relationship of Polly to her father-in-law is possibly the key to this story. Here we have concentrated many of the forces that are supposed to block real communication: Polly is not a recent immigrant; Rosicky is. Rosicky is old; Polly is young. Polly is gregarious, Rosicky is not. Polly is a daughter-in-law. It takes a rather dramatic crisis to reveal the depth of Rosicky's understanding of and love for Polly and her own "tender heart." In the few minutes that Rosicky and his daughter-in-law share during his heart attack, all barriers that had seemed to inhibit communication between them are swept away. In realizing how much her father-inlaw loves her, Polly tells him of her expected, child before letting anyone else know. In finding out how tender and capable Polly is, Rosicky sees through the facade of sophistication she had erected between them and knows that she will be the kind of wife Rudolph needs. Question for Discussion Why is Rosicky so effective in bringing out the best in everyone he meets? Like to do grape juice — but hate the mess? BRISTLECONE PINE You, Bristlecone! You made it! Alone on the rim of sky You defy danger. Bent under lightning lash Nothing can break you. I know your kin: People grizzled and old, Glorious and tough, Their rough growth, not beautiful, TUTTI-FRUTTI But treasured, Measured against disaster And not found wanting.

Now you can have beautiful, clear, concentrated juice with a minimum of effort and absolutely no mess. The no-work juicer — is the answer for you. —Joanna Brown For more information contact: Greta Ashdown 612 East Pheasant Way Bountiful, Utah 84010 Phone 295-1005 Nottingham ace Cablecloths Introducing a wonderful, unique lace cloth, in the finest lace available, this is the ARUNDEL CASTLE lace tablecloth obtainable as a cloth or bedcover in white or ecru. 50" x = 75" $12.00 72" x 90" $18.00 72" x 100" $20.00 108" x 100" $23.00 Napkins to match $ 7.00 per half 16W" x 16¥2"' dozen In the Arundel Castle cloth there are 46 miles of cotton and it required six months work to design and draft this masterpiece. ALSO introducing the Kenilworth Castle lace tablecloth 58" x 78" $6.50 I ec, fone Leach and Tooley 70" Round $7.50 65 Mill Road Newthorpe Our cloths and bedcovers will be Nottingham, England found gracing the homes of the discriminating homemakers everywhere. 

797 October 1969

 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours CD HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK October 12th-26th ROSE PARADE TOURS December 26th-January 2nd via San Francisco or via San Diego cm Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Learn a Career with a future Rose Elder. Ada Mortensen We offer the finest instruction, latest techniques, finest new and modern equipment. Professional instructors will insure your success in a rewarding profession. Continuous Enrollment VA and Foreign Student Approved Indian Student Approved Send now for P our brochure 2 ry » ® 22 N. Country Club Drive Mesa, Arizona 85201 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _-_.55 Zone5 ___-..75 Zone3 ____..60 Zone6 _-_. - 85 Zone4 __._ _.65 Zone7 ___-_-95 Zone8_._- -1.05 DESERET. Pp PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892, t presley MUSIC COMPANY 'Singing Mothers"' ''Choir Directors'' \ Cleneper SX We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos Instruments And Supplies Come in and acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 798 A special offer to Relief Society members — Lowest price ever! We had to order a tremendous quantity from Vanguard records to make this choralsymphonic masterpiece available to members of the Church at this low price. We want every family to thrill to this inspiring work about the Book of Mormon. A"\ ts VANGEARD ol Li dle us LEROY J ROBERTSON Oratorio UTAH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA hy hen my el LEROY J. ROBERTSON'S Oratorio from the BOOK OF MORMON MAURICE ABRAVANEL, CONDUCTING THE UTAH SYMPHONY AND CHOIR "The most significant liturgical work of this generation." New York Herald Tribune "One of the more inspired compositions, it's top drawer l e Billboard "A great musical composition, and Vanguard, producers of the / f the most exacting recordings released today, do their enviable y as reputation proud." Harold Lundstrom, Deseret News "The only significant commercially recorded work in the his- (WE CAN'T REORDER tory of the Church." Dr. Lowell Durham AT THIS LOW PRICE) 98 including postage and mailing in the USA Order several for Christmas gifts, weddings, anniversaries and birthdays.: Utah Symphony Orchestra $ 55 West First South Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Please send. Recordings of "Oratorio from. The Book of Mormon at $2.98 each. $ is ¢ enclosed. [] Monaural [] Stereo ° Name. Ee. Address. City State Zip. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Sharing the Good Things of Life... Family happiness is sharing things together... Secure in the knowledge that all members of the family are adequately protected against life's uncertainties. Your Beneficial Life Consultant takes pride in serving your life insurance needs... Including your annual "life insurance checkup" to meet your growing and changing needs. There are new growth opportunities for you... With Beneficial Life Insurance. BENEFICIAL LIFE sane Company Salt Lake City, Utah M Lz (@) < mM Es w mM A - W fe)) WO