THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD

Belle S. Spafford - President
Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor
Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Leone G. Layton
Lillie C. Adams
Christine H. Robinson
Mary G. Judd
Blanche B. Stoddard
Louise W. Madsen
Alberta H. Christensen
Anna B. Hart
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Nellie W. Neal
Edith S. Elliott
Leone O. Jacobs
Josie B. Bay
Mildred B. Eyring
Florence J. Madsen
Mary J. Wilson
Alta J. Vance
Helen W. Anderson

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor - Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor - Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager - Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 38 OCTOBER 1951 No. 10

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES

Amber Clock and Desk Set Presented to Relief Society by the Sisters of the West German Mission 652
Gifts From the Swiss and Japanese Relief Society Sisters 653
The Constitution and the United Nations Charter: III. Some Possible Effects of World Government Upon Constitutional Liberty by Albert E. Bowen 654
"This Is the Way, Walk Ye in It" by James R. Clark 663
Home — Our First Line of Defense by William H. Boyle 672

FICTION

Every Step of the Way by Olive W. Burt 658
Mirror, Mirror by Marjorie Linthurst 667
Perfect Sunday by Elaine Swain 682
Through This Door — Chapter 3 by Margery S. Stewart 685

GENERAL FEATURES

Sixty Years Ago 674
Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 675
Editorial: The Sabbath for Man by Marianne C. Sharp 676
Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 695
From Near and Far 720

FEATURES FOR THE HOME

The Family Reunion by Elsie C. Carroll 678
How to Make an Angora Baby Bonnet by Marian Richards Boyer 690
Mother's Cookbook by Norma Wrathall 691

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Theology: The Migration (Continued) by Leland H. Monson 700
Visiting Teacher Messages: "Look Unto God With Firmness" by Leone O. Jacobs 703
Work Meeting — Sewing: Knitted Goods by Jean Ridges Jennings 704
Literature: Robert Burns by Briant S. Jacobs 706
Social Science: The Religious Reformation by Archibald F. Bennett 710
Music: Review of the Four-four Baton Pattern by Florence J. Madsen 715

POETRY

October's Dress — Frontispiece by Christie Lund Coles 651
Alien to the City by Leone E. McCune 666
Autumn Morning by Lydia Hall 671
Kitchen by Beatrice K. Ekman 677
My Faith by Mary Gustafson 684
Summer Is Over by Eva Willes Wangsgaard 690
Of Loss by Maryhale Woolsey 694
Valley Pheasants by Evelyn Fjeldsted 694
Autumn by Beulah Huish Sadleir 699
Monument by Mabel Law Atkinson 714
Anniversaries by Evelyn Wooster Viner 716
As Colors Move by Margaret B. Shomaker 718

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

ANY 3 OF THESE FINE BOOKS PLUS FEW CENTS DELIVERY WITH MEMBERSHIP IN THE Family Reading Club

YES. You are invited to accept ANY THREE of the books shown on this page for only $1.89, with membership in the Family Reading Club. Founded to select and distribute books which are WORTHWHILE, INTERESTING and ENTERTAINING without being objectionable, the Family Reading Club is just what you have been looking for! Each month publishers submit books they believe will meet the Family Reading Club standards. Our Editors then select the book they can recommend most enthusiastically to members. These are books which EVERY MEMBER OF YOUR FAMILY CAN READ —books to be read with pleasure and retained in your home library with pride.

HOW MEMBERS SAVE 50%

There is no charge for membership in the Family Reading Club beyond the cost of the books themselves. You pay only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling) for the books you purchase after reading the book review magazine which will come to your home each month. It is not necessary to purchase a book every month — you may accept as few as four each year to retain your membership. And you will receive a wonderful new "Bonus" Book FREE for each four selections you take. Thus, the purchase of books through the Club for only $1.89 each — instead of the publisher's regular retail prices of $2.50 to $4.00 — saves you 25% to 35% of your book dollars. And when the value of the free Bonus Books is figured in, you actually save as much as 50%!

Join Now — Send No Money

If you believe in a book club which will appeal to the finest instincts of every member of your family, let us introduce you to the Family Reading Club NOW, while you can get YOUR CHOICE of ANY THREE of the wonderful books described here — two as your FREE Membership Gifts, and one as your first selection — for only $1.89! Send no money, just mail the coupon today. However, as this unusual offer may be withdrawn at any time, we urge you to mail the coupon NOW!

FAMILY READING CLUB
MINEOLA, NEW YORK

Thorndike - Barnhart DESK DICTIONARY — A really comprehensive book. Contains 80,000 entries, 700 illustrations, 900 pages. Newly written, modern, accurate. Recently featured in Life Magazine. Publisher's edition, $2.75.

CREATIVE HOME DECORATING, By The Rockows — Work wonders in your home with this huge manual! Contains 500 illustrations, 41 full-color "demonstration rooms," complete step-by-step methods. Publisher's edition, $4.95.

FARM WANTED, By Helen Train Hilles — Fifteen years ago, Mrs. Hilles dreaded the peace and quiet of country life. This is the story of how she became a farmer in spite of herself — and loved itl Publisher's edition, $3.00. LOOK YOUNGER, LIVE LONGER, By Gayelord Hauser — Here, at last, in one volume is Mr. Hauser's plan for youth and health through proper diet. An_ exciting book which everyone should read. Publisher's edition, $3.00. THE GREATEST STORY EVER TOLD, By Fulton Oursler — A _ reverent and faithful retelling of the sublime story of Jesus, bringing Him and those whose lives were entwined with His excitingly close to you. Publisher's edition, $2.95. AMERICA COOKS, By The Browns — Contains over 1,600 recipes — the finest of each of the 48 states — from mouth-watering, old-fashioned favorites to up-to-the-minute taste delights. Crystal-clear directions keep you from going wrong. MAIL COUPON NOW! FAMILY READING CLUB, Dept. 10 RSM MINEOLA, NEW YORK Please send me the three books I have checked below as my two Membership Gift Books and first Club selection, and bill me only $1.89 (plus delivery) for all three. ( Thorndike-Barnhart Desk Dictionary C] Creative Home Decorating Cl Farm Wanted [] Look Younger, Live Longer [] The Greatest Story Ever Told DO America Cooks Also enroll. Me as a member of the Family Reading Club and send me, each month, a review of the Club's forthcoming selection. I have the privilege of notifying you in advance if I do not wish to accept any selection, or alternate book — at the special members' price of only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling). There are no membership dues or fees, and I may accept as few as four selections or alternates during the coming twelve months. As a member, I will a a free Bonus Book with each four Club selections or alternates accept. (Please Print) City Age. If Under 21 ee — Zone -State --cececceceeeeee Same price in Canada: 105 Bond St., Toronto 2 ] i | Offer good only in the U. S. A. And Canada. A] oe ae ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee es es es ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee oe Oo Don Knight AUTUMN SPLENDOR, WHITE RIVER NATIONAL FOREST, NEAR ASPEN, COLORADO THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 38, NO. 10 | OCTOBER 1951 October $ Dress Christie Lund Coles I heard the rustle of October's dress, And turned to see her passing down the hill, With more of beauty than the mind could guess, With more of grace than words can distill. I saw her in her crimson velvet shoes, I saw her golden hair, pretentious, bright; She seemed so proud, so exuberant, until She turned and paused a moment in the light; And then I noted ravages that time, And frost, and sudden, stinging cold Had left upon her, and I knew that though Her dress was taffeta, her heart was old. I knew that she was tired being gay, Being so colorful for our delight. I knew how ready she would be, at last, To sit beside the fire in noiseless white. The Cover: Logan Pass, Glacier National Park, Montana Photograph by Josef Muench ~ Cover Design by Evan Jensen AMBER CLOCK AND DESK SET PRESENTED TO RELIEF SOCIETY BY THE SISTERS OF THE WEST GERMAN MISSION General President Belle S. Spafford (center), First Counselor Marianne C. Sharp (left), and Second Counselor Velma N. Simonsen (right), are shown with the beautiful amber clock and desk set which the sisters of the West German Mission presented to the general board of Relief Society for use in the new Relief Society Building. GIFTS FROM THE SWISS AND JAPANESE RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS In the upper photograph are seen reproductions of two oil paintings by the Swiss artist Frei, "Am Lenserhardersee" (left) and "Ober Wilderswil, mit Jungfrau und Moush"' (right). These paintings were presented by the Swiss sisters and sent to the general board by Lenora K. Bringhurst, President of the Swiss-Austrian Mission Relief Society. 'The paintings are originals in tones of blue and green, revealing the lofty beauty of Alpine scenery. In the lower photograph, the general presidency of Relief Society, President Belle S. Spafford (center), First Counselor Marianne C. Sharp (left), and Second Counselor Velma N. Simonsen (right) are shown with the three beautiful handmade dolls sent to the presidency through Sister Ethel L. Mauss, President of the Japanese Mission Relief Society. Accompanying the exquisitely dressed dolls was a story of each one, in Japanese and in English, and a lovely letter written by Sister Chiyo Sagara of the Tokyo District. The dolls, left to right, are richly clothed in white, black, and red costumes, ornately patterned. The Constitution and the United Nations Charter III. Some Possible Effects of World Government Upon Constitutional Liberty Elder Albert R. Bowen beginning with the wars of the Napoleonic era, each succeeding conflict has become more terrible and devastating in its effect than was its predecessor. With the outbreak of the Second World War it soon became apparent that it was to be the most terrible of all. Thoughtful men the world over feared the end of civilization could not long be deferred unless some |* the history of war, especially method could be devised to outlaw war and preserve peace. In 1945 in San Francisco, California, the United Nations Charter was adopted to provide a framework within which an international organization called the United: Nations could function for the purpose of maintaining the peace of the world and for the lofty purpose of instituting justice among nations and individuals on a world-wide basis. It will not be necessary to point out here in any detail that the hopes of the world to end wars have not thus far materialized. On the contrary, it seems quite clear that we are presently engaged in a bloody conflict in Korea which any day may blossom into World War Ill. The failures and causes of the failures of the United Nations thus far is not the purpose of this Page 654 article. Nor is it the purpose of this article to present the arguments of many sincere students of government who take the position that any attempt to apply common principles of government to all nations without regard to the vast differences between them in spiritual, cultural, and political development has small chance of success. 'The experiment has been undertaken. Only history will decide if the attempt was justified. The purpose of this article is briefly to call attention to some of the possible effects of United States adherence to the United Nations Charter upon the constitutional liberties enjoyed by the people of this country. What is here wnitten is written in a spirit of constructive criticism and in full recognition of the yearnings of the troubled people of this world for relief from war. The announced basic purposes of the United Nations are laudable. Peace and justice are ideals for which we should never cease to work. 'The method of achievement, however, is just as important as the ideal. The selection of the wrong method or the subversion of a good method is fraught with danger, not only because the ideal THE CONSTITUTION AND THE UNITED NATIONS CHARTER may not be attained, but because In the method adopted may lie the seeds of the destruction of the liberties which our forefathers bequeathed to us at such great sactifice.:, [' is a fact of universal recognition that the constitutional system under which we live has provided for the people of this country the greatest abundance of freedom and liberty enjoyed by any nation on earth. Consequently, no rightthinking American would even entertain the thought of joining in any world organization if by such adherence those liberties were to be jeopardized. It is assumed that the great majority who worked to bring about United States participation in the United Nations were motivated by high and sincere ideals and with no motivation save the promotion of universal peace and justice. Unfortunately, the philosophy of some of these individuals is such that, in their misguided zeal for promoting world government as a panacea for all the ills of war and injustice, they would surrender basic American liberties. 'The argument is that in the beginning of such a world movement, made up of a diversity of nations in various phases of political development, some of them very backward, both politically and economically, it is necessary to begin at a lower level than the one on which the American people have been accustomed to live. It is claimed that by making concessions here and there, the ground thus lost can be regained in the common 655 advance of all nations toward the goal of universal peace and justice. No argument could be more fallacious. Ideals of liberty, freedom and justice, once surrendered, are much more likely to be permanently lost than to be regained. 'The leaders of the Russian Communist revolution have stated that, while their present system is frankly dictatorial, the day of freedom for all Russians will come when the masses have _ been sufficiently educated to understand and appreciate the blessings of Communism. I doubt that any American would relish the idea of waiting for freedom and liberty until the Russian masters see fit to bestow it. Furthermore, there is no sound reason why the progress of a nation should be retarded, set back, and impeded in order to let the rest of the world catch up. 'The best assurance that the ideal of democracy can be realized lies in the shining example of a successful experiment in democracy. It is precisely the example of American democracy which has kept alive the hopes of the oppressed the world over, that other nations too may achieve such an ideal in government. | When the charter of the United Nations was before the Senate of the United States for adoption, the Senate and the people of this country were assured that the charter specifically provided that there should be no interference with the domestic affairs of the member states. It was upon that assurance that the charter was ratified and became law in the United States. Before pointing specifically to 656 some of the danger signs which now appear as a possible threat to the American constitutional system as a direct consequence of American membership in the United Nations, brief mention should be made of the manner by which that membership was brought about. Knowledge or awareness of this method is important because it is through that method that the greatest threat to our constitutional system could become reality. If we are fully aware of the pitfalls ahead, those threats and dangers may be averted. HE United States became a member of the United Nations by the adoption and ratification of the charter as a treaty. In and of itself this sounds harmless enough. Treaties between nations are of common occurrence and in the ordinary mind give rise to no apprehension at all. 'Traditionally, treaties are international contracts or engagements entered into between sovereign states. Our Constitution provides for the making of treaties. Article II, Section 2, provides that the president may make treaties with the advice and consent of the Senate, provided two-thirds of the senators present concur.. This all sounds simple enough, and certainly presents no great cause for alarm. However, the Constitution, by Article 6, further provides that in addition to the Constitution and the laws enacted by Congress in pursuance thereof, treaties made or which shall be made under the authority of the United States shall be the supreme law of the land. Thus' we see that a treaty, negotiated by the President and ratiRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 hed by the Senate in the manner provided, is more than a contract between nations. It is the law of the land. Under the Constitution, any law passed by a state legislature which contravenes the provisions of any treaty entered into by the United States is void. Furthermore, by judicial interpretation it has been held by the Supreme Court of the United States that treaties entered into and ratified by the United States in the constitutional manner can, and do, have the effect of abrogating existing state laws which may have been in effect for years and which the courts have declared to be constitutional. Under no other constitutional system does a treaty have the effect of domestic law. In other nations, such as England, for example, a treaty may only become the law of the land when a special law is passed by the legislative body making it such. So far as the Constitution is concerned, there are no precise or definite limitations upon the subject matter of any treaty, and there are adherents to the constitutional doctrine that treaties may be enacted with the binding force of law which would be unconstitutional if attempted to be enacted by Coneress. Unfortunately, this doctrine is supported by rather well-defined judicial opinion. If this be a true appraisal of the treaty-making power, which heaven forbid, it means that this power, when properly invoked, transcends the power of the elected representatives of the people to make laws. A simple illustration of this doctrine should be both instructive and interesting. THE CONSTITUTION AND THE UNITED NATIONS CHARTER N 1913 Congress passed a law for the protection of migratory birds. Soon after this law was passed a question arose as to its constitutionality. In a suit which finally reached the United States Supreme Court, this law was held to be an unconstitutional invasion of powers reserved to the states by the Constitution. The sponsors of this law, with commendable zeal for their objective, did not abandon their efforts and prevailed upon the President and the Senate to enter into a treaty with Great Britain which provided for the protection of migratory birds. After this treaty had been concluded this same group again persuaded Congress to enact into law almost the same statute which had previously been declared unconstitutional. When the constitutionality of the second statute was questioned, the Supreme Court, in an opinion written by the late eminent Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, held the law to be constitutional because it had been passed by Congress pursuant to the provisions of a treaty which the President had signed and the Senate had ratified. 'This is a classic example of the way in which the treaty powers provided under the Constitution may be used to invade and knock down rights clearly reserved to the states under the Constitution, which the Congress, acting as a lawmaking body, is powerless to invade. Many thoughtful students of constitutional law have questioned the wisdom of the doctrine of Missouri vs. Holland, for that is the name of this famous decision, but it is clearly, up until the present at least, the announced constitution- 657 al law of the United States. In that case it was indicated that the question of the power to circumvent constitutional guarantees by the treaty method was not being finally determined as unlimited and that the question of the limits of the treaty-making power would be further considered in appropriate cases brought before the court. The significant thing about the rule of Missouri vs. Holland is that it established a precedent far beyond any previously announced rule, which precedent may be used to make invasions into constitutional liberties. All thoughtful Americans who are informed as to the implications of the doctrine of unlimited treaty power in the President and the Senate, should certainly firmly oppose it and use their efforts 'and influence to place proper limitations upon such power by constitutional amendment, if necessary. Surely it was never intended that the President and Senate may, with impunity, subvert or destroy rights guaranteed by the Constitution by merely concluding a treaty with some foreign nation on a subject involying or affecting those rights and then implement the treaty by laws passed in pursuance thereof. The proponents of some proposed international covenants and conventions, which will be mentioned hereafter, are prepared to use the announced treaty-making powers under the Constitution for just such purpose. They go even further and contend that treaty obligations of the United States are self-executing and require no implementing legislation. (To be concluded) Every Step of the Way Olive W. Burt ARTHA had awakened that M morning with a vague feeling of uneasiness that had mounted, as the hidden sun had mounted in the gray sky, till now, it had become a gnawing fear, localized and intensified by the sudden sharp pain that tore through her body. She rested her head for a moment on her arms flung across the table where she had been trying to eat a little lunch. Then she sought the comfort of Ronnie's eyes. 'They were everywhere she looked, smiling down at her tenderly from the photographs all about the room— Ronnie in his neat, dark wedding suit, Ronnie in overalls with his prize steer, Ronnie in his uniform as he had looked when he told her goodby. "T'll be here, Martha, honey!" he had promised her. "No matter how many miles are between us, when your time comes I will be with you, in spirit." "Don't worry about me," she had answered stoutly. "T'll be all right. And what you just said goes double. I am going to be with you all the © way. We'll be together always, sweetheart. Mules don't mean anything." Martha, remembering that part ing, thought bitterly, those were words, Ronnie, brave words, but nothing else. You are far away— so far that I cannot touch you, even with my thoughts—even with my fears! Page 658 She rose from the table and went to the window and looked out. It was three, yet it was so dark and gray outside that she could barely see the barns. The road winding down the canyon was empty and desolate. Martha sighed and turned resolutely from the window. 'There was no sense in waiting any longer. Her father would not be back till Saturday—three long days away. When he had left, they had thought that would be plenty soon enough, but now Martha knew that Saturday would be too late. Not only was Ronnie gone, but so was eg one else. She was alone. The thing to do was to get herself ready and drive down to the city to the hospital. It was only a matter of a little over a hundred miles—a three hours journey at most—and if she hurried she should be able to get there in plenty of time. 'The first baby, she had heard, took a long time coming. But she musn't get panicky. She must move calmly and take care of everything, because this was an important trip—dreadfully important. Martha threw on an old sweater and went out to the barn. The wind, whipping down the canyon, wrapped her skirts about her legs. She forked down hay for the cows and put oats in the horses' manger. She pumped water to fill the troughs, moving very carefully, afraid that sudden exertion or too much energy might hasten the event she must hold at bay. EVERY STEP OF THE WAY "Better go slow, even if it gets dusk before I reach town," she whispered, her stiff lips forming the words deliberately, reassuringly. BACK at the house she called the Hendersons who had the next ranch up the canyon. "Dolly," Martha said, trying to keep her voice casual and unafraid, "Dolly, the pains have started. I've got to go down to Trinidad—I've got to get to the hospital. Will you ask Pete to take care of the stock here till Dad gets back Saturday? There's only the two cows to milk and the feeding to do. Everything else can wait." "You poor kid!" Dolly's voice meant to be reassuring, Martha knew, but its very compassion bred fear. "Gosh, I wish I could go with you and see that you get there all right. But Pete's gone over the mountain to look after the sheep and the boys are all in school. I wouldn't dare leave the babies—but it looks awful out. What if it storms?" "T can get through all right. It isn't far. But I am afraid, I guess. Dolly?" ""Vies?"' "How long—will I have time?" "You ought to." The older woman's voice was hearty. "Shucks! Most babies come in the morning, you know—not that any of mine - did—they're too ornery to abide by any rules." Martha breathed more easily. "Oh, then 'that's sall aight only." "Don't you worry now!" Dolly advised. ""And don't get scared. Just grit your teeth and keep going. 659 And don't think about the place. We'll take care of everything until your father gets back. Don't forget to leave him a note or he'll be scared to find you gone." "Thanks, Dolly, I will. I've got to rush now." Martha turned from the phone and tried to organize her thoughts. "I must take things for the baby," she said, and went to the small cretonne-covered box where she had put the little garments as she had fashioned them or had received them from the mail-order house. She took out shirts and diapers and tiny hose. 'Then she saw the tiny bootees—the first thing she had made for the baby. Ronnie had insisted on helping and had tried to put the edge around the top, his brown hands clumsy with the slender hook. Martha held the bootees close to her cheek for an instant, remembering that night. 'Then she laid them on top of the other wee garments. "Now my things." She got her new nightdresses, her comb and brush and toothbrush. There was something else—what was it? Oh! Ronnie had written from far Korea, ""T'ake my picture to the hospital with you, sweetheart! Don't you dare forget it. I want to be in on this!" Martha smiled a little wanly. Maybe it would be some comfort to him to know that his photograph was on the table beside her hed, but she wanted Ronnie, himself, warm and tangible and_breathTE «tons She had heated some milk, and now she poured herself a steaming cupful and turned the rest into a 660 thermos bottle. She noticed that her hand was shaking, and she scolded herself sternly. Another pain tore through her and her eyes sought the clock beseechingly. It was past four.... The pains were still a long way apart, but she'd better hurry. GHE began to cram things helterskelter into the suitcase, and crowded the lid shut with that lost feeling of having forgotten something. She looked about her, trying to remember. The note to her father! She scribbled it hastily, placed it under the salt cellar on the table, lifted her suitcase, and went out. The wind was screeching down the canyon now, and_ scattered flakes of snow were whirling madly about the yard. She set her suitcase and thermos bottle on the side porch and hurried to the garage. She forgot her earlier caution and flung wide the garage doors with a wild _ gesture. She got into the car and felt like crying with relief when the engine turned over obediently and the old car backed smoothly into the yard. "It would have been just like it to have stalled," she said, blinking back a tear. She glanced at the gas gauge and mentally thanked her father for his care on never leaving unless the tank was full of gas in case of an emergency. By the porch she stopped and put her suitcase into the car. She put the thermos bottle in the door pocket. Then she opened the kitchen door and gave one last swift look about to be sure everything was shut.. She locked the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 door, hid the key under the milk bench on the side porch, and was ready to go. It was hard to drive with the wind whipping the snow against the windshield. The flakes seemed to come out of nowhere, from every direction, to batter against the glass and cling there in a heavy, white curtain. She hadn't thought it was snowing so heavily until the car started., The windshield wiper wasn't working very well, and Martha had to lean forward and peer through the twisting gray and white kaleidoscope in order to keep on the winding road. The pain caught her and shook her and she had to stop the car and lean her head on the steering wheel and pray. After awhile she started on again, but during the brief stop the snow had piled high on the windshield and the rear window, so she got out onto the running board and wiped it off with a bit of cloth she found in the glove compartment. She chafed at the delay, but could not avoid it. WHEN she started again she made herself think of Ronnie. She tried to conjure him up, out of memory, to sit beside her here in the cold car on the snowy road. But it was useless. All she could remember was Ronnie in that last snapshot he had sent—a picture of him in a helmet all spotted with paint and ridiculously draped with leaves. His shirt was spotted, and the sun beat down on his broad shoulders. Would there ever be a night— a safe, distant night, when she EVERY STEP OF THE WAY would lie in Ronnie's arms and tell him of this nightmare? "But you weren't ever alone," Ronnie would whisper against her hair, and she would whisper back, "No, I was never really alone!' She would never let him know how alone she had been in the cold and the snow and the fear of these hours. She had read somewhere that no spot on earth was more than sixty hours away from you, wherever you stood. Sixty hours. In sixty hours she could be lost forever. She looked at the speedometer— twenty-five miles—but that was as fast as she dared go. There was no one on the road—no one at all, and Martha thought bitterly that if anything happened she could die here, on this road she knew so well and had traveled so often, and no one would know until it was too late. She bit her lips to keep them from shaking into sobs, and drove doggedly on. Every little while another pain would rip through her body. Her hands on the wheel would tense in uncontrollable agony, and she would have to stop the car because she couldn't tell where those tense fingers would direct it on this sloping, slippery road. After the paroxysm had passed, she would rest her head for a moment on her arms across the wheel; then she would get out and wipe off the accumulated snow from the windshield and the back window, and then go on, slowly, painfully. Each time she got out of the car she was stung by the snowflakes and the lashing wind. Her feet got cold, and she was afraid this might 661 be harmful to the unborn baby, but she didn't know how to avoid it. The stops were becoming so frequent now that she didn't have time to get warm between them, and she wondered how much of the aching cold was from the weather and how much came from her own terror. Slowly, stubbornly the little car moved down the lonely road in short spurts of motion and longer and longer pauses of shaking agony. At last, looking out of the window, Martha could tell by the landmarks, even though they were distorted with snow, that she was out of the canyon and on the road into town. It wasn't the main road, of course, but it seemed less lonely somehow.. The most dangerous part of her journey was over. But it was getting dark. The trip down the canyon had taken longer than she had planned, and she would have to hurry now. She drew the car slightly off the road and stepped out onto the running board to wipe off the windshield one last time, so that she could travel faster. NOW had frozen to the glass, and it took time and effort to get it even passably clear. As Martha worked furiously she heard with a sickening lurch of her heart the engine give a funny cough and die. She stumbled back into her seat, thrust her foot against the starter, pulled the choke frantically. The starter buzzed, but the engine didn't turn over. She tried again and again, her hands shaking, her lip caught between her teeth. But it was no use. 662 "T've flooded the carburetor now," she thought bitterly. "I'll have to wait. Ill have to make myself wait." She looked about her in the deepening dark of the lonely road and was filled with panic. She knew that every time she choked the car more gas would be forced into the flooded carburetor, delaying her that much longer. 'Then she recalled a trick Ronnie had taught her—a way of waiting until the carburetor was clear.. She began to count, "One and two and three and four." At sixty she bent her thumb against her palm one minute... But how long it had been! She started counting again. Ronnie had said to give the carburetor ten minutes, a good ten minutes, before she tried again, It had always worked. But at the end of that interminable period, when all ten fingers lay clenched against her palms, Martha still could not start the car. It was incomprehensible, unwarranted, frightening. She laid her head on her arms and wept. Her weeping was interrupted by a searing flash of pain. Now she just sat there, behind the wheel, and let the pains come. There was nothing else she could do. After each one passed she rested her head on her arms and dozed. She was too weary to cry any more—too weary to be afraid of what was happening. She wished she could think of Ronnie. She wished she could remember what he would have done in this place—some crazy, Boy Scout trick, no doubt, like waving a flashlight. There was one in the glove compartment! ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 She looked out again. The snow had stopped falling and the night was' clear and cold about her. Wearily, without the slightest hope, her numb fingers opened the door in the panel and took out the flashlight. Moving in a drugged sleep, she stepped out of the car into the bitter cold. She pressed her thumb against the catch and the light flared on. It made a little circle of yellow on the snow beside the road. Martha looked at it numbly. Now what should she do?. There was some special way to signal distress with a light—but there was no one to see in all the darkness that lay so close and tight around her. She lifted her arm, waved it in a slow, tired circle—and then the light went out. As suddenly as the engine had failed her, the light was gone, and she was alone in the cold and the night. Martha opened the door of the car and crawled into her place behind the wheel. This was the end —the end to hope and the end to fighting. Ronnie had promised to be with her, to help her through this ordeal. But it wasn't Ronnie's fault that he was not here. And it wasn't her father's fault that she was alone. It was beyond them all. * OK OK OK sense of warmth awakened her. She opened her eyes and found bright sunlight lying across her face. She looked around and found that she was in a hospital room. Ronnie's picture was on the little table, just as she had planned it would be. A nurse came in quietly, and seeing that Martha was awake, she put (Continued on page 717) "This Is the Way, Walk Ye in It!"' Elder James R. Clark Brigham Young University M* theme is from the 3oth chapter, zoth verse of the book of Isaiah: And though the Lord give you the bread of adversity, and the water of affliction, yet shall not thy teachers be removed into a corner any more, but thine eyes shall see thy teachers and thine ears shall hear a word behind thee, saying, This is the way, walk ye in it, when ye turn to the night hand and when ye turn to the left. Unto every man is given a time, and a place, and a path. Some there be that walk only in their own time—and some above their time in a world of dreams. A few, their eyes cast on the eternities, their feet in the paths of men—walk in the path of eternal time. Those who walk in their own time alone, are swept by the winds of adversity. 'Those who withdraw from the world to walk above their time, lose their grasp on the hearts of men. 'Those who walk in advance of their time—their eyes on the heavens, their feet on the earth, reach upward and seek the principles of eternity and place them within the reach of men that they may walk thereby, turning neither to the right nor to the left. These are prophets unto their time and unto their people. These be the prophets of the earth who speak, as Isaiah has said, "This is the way, walk ye in it." Picture if you will, a fifteen-yearold lad seated in a log cabin in western New York. The winds of opinion and diversity sweep around him. As he opens his _ family Bible, he possesses the potentialities of becoming a visionary—as many have later claimed he was— and as thousands before him had become in the great revival. He sought, however, not escape from, but solution to his problems, and his eyes were opened, and he saw his teachers as Isaiah had said. But let us listen to his own words: In the midst of this war of words and tumult of opinion, I often said to myself: What is to be done? Who of all these parties are right; or, are they all wrong together? If any one of them be right, which is it, and how shall I know it? While I was laboring under the extreme difficulties caused by the contests of these parties of religionists, I was one day reading the Epistle of James, first chapter and fifth verse, which reads: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask cf God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him" (Writings of Joseph Smith, 2:10-11). Never did any passage of scripture come with more power to the heart of man than this did at this time to mine. It seemed to enter with great force into every feeling of my heart. I reflected on it again and again, knowing that if any person needed wisdom from God, I did; for how to act I did not know, and unless I could get more wisdom than I then had, I would never know.... So, in accordance with this, my determination to ask of God, I retired to the woods to make the attempt. It was on the morning of a beautiful, clear day, early in the spring of eighteen hundred and Page 663 664 twenty. It was the first time in my life that I had made such an attempt, for amidst all my anxieties I had never as yet made the attempt to pray vocally. After I had retired to the place where I had previously designed to go, having looked around me, and finding myself alone, I kneeled down and began to offer up the desires of my heart to God. I had scarcely done so, when immediately I was seized upon by some power which entirely overcame me. Thick darkness gathered around me, and it seemed to me for a time as if I were doomed to sudden destruction. But, exerting all my powers to call upon God to deliver me out of the power of this enemy which had seized upon me. Just at this moment of great alarm, I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me. It no sooner appeared than I found myself delivered from the enemy which held me bound. When the light rested upon me I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name, and said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him! My object in going to inquire of the - Lord was to know which of all the sects was right, that I might know which to join. No sooner, therefore, did I get possession of myself so as to be able to speak, than I asked the Personages who stood above me in the light, which of all the sects was right—and which I should join. I was answered that I must join none of them (Writings of Joseph Smith, 2:12-19). Had this lad walked by the standards of his day and time, the powers of darkness and adversity would have overcome him and turned him from his path. Had he walked above his time with his feet on the clouds, the rapture of the moment RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 would have blotted out his purpose. Walking the path of eternal time, he saw the Father and the Son face to face and brought eternity down to men on earth. Again it is spring, March of 1836. The fifteen-year-old lad is now a young man of thirty. Groups of those who now walk with him dot the countryside from Farmington, Maine, to Nashville, Tennessee. Among the wooded hills near Cleveland, Ohio, a temple has been built with earthly hands. 'Times have been hard and troubles many. Lying reports have been spread abroad over the world. Once again, midst vexations and troublous times, there is need for an endowment from on high. Listen again to this man who walked with God in the path of eternal time. Hear a. Portion of the dedicatory prayer of the Kirtland Temple: Thou who hast commanded thy servants to build a house to thy name in this place, And now thou beholdest, O Lord, that thy servants have done according to thy commandment, And now we ask thee, Holy Father, in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of thy bosom, in whose name alone salvation can be administered to the children of men, we ask thee, O Lord, to accept of this house, the workmanship of the hands of us, thy servants, which thou didst command us to build; For thou knowest that we have done this work through great tribulation; and out of our poverty we have given of our substance to build a house to thy name, that the Son of Man might have a place to manifest himself to his people And we ask thee, Holy Father, that thy servants may go forth from this house armed with thy power, and that thy name may be upon them, and thy glory be round about them, and thine angels have charge over them (D. & C. 109:2-5, 22). "THIS IS THE WAY, WALK YE IN IT" Quietly, this time with a companion, the young man retires to a pulpit, drops a curtain to shut them off from the assembled multitude, and bows himself once more in solemn supplication. He and his companion had walked abroad on the earth. With their followers they had built with their hands this earthly edifice where they now cast their eyes on eternity. Suddenly there burst upon them a vision which is recorded in these words: The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the tushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father... (D. & C. 110:1-4). After this vision closed, the heavens were again opened unto us; and Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north. After this, Elias appeared, and committed the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham, saying that in us and our seed all generations after us should be blessed. After this vision had closed, another great -and glorious vision burst upon us; for Elijah the prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, stood befor us and said: Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi—testifying that he [Elijah] should be sent, before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come—To turn the 665 hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse. Therefore, the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors (D. & C. 110:11-16). Those who walk only by the standards of their times would have been denied this vision and would have been swept from their purpose by poverty and adversity and would not have built the edifice to which these teachers might come. Those who walk above their time might have built only an edifice of dreams. But those who walked in the path of eternal time, their feet on the earth, their eyes to the heavens, ushered in the dispensation of the fulness of times. Once more it is spring. The year is 1839. Our prophet now sits in a county jail in Liberty, Missouri. Since that glorious vision three years before in Kirtland, his troubles and perplexities and adversities have increased an hundred fold. His people have been cruelly driven from their homes in Missouri and have sought refuge in _ Illinois. Surely now he will bend or break under the torrents of adversity and be "driven by the wind and tossed." Now might he not give up and drift with the overwhelming tide—or pethaps withdraw from the world with his faithful followers into a state of ascetic resignation? Shackled and fettered of men, he plants his feet on the firm earth of this frontier jail, once more he supplicates his God; not for wisdom as at Palmyra, not for endowment as in Kirtland—but for deliverance 666 of his people from persecution and adversity. O God, where art thou? And where is the pavilion that covereth thy hiding place? How long shall thy hand be stayed, and thine eye, yea thy pure eye, behold from the eternal heavens the wrongs of thy people and of thy servants, and thine ear be penetrated with their cries? Yea, O Lord, how long shall they suffer these wrongs and unlawful oppressions, before thine heart shall be softened toward them, and thy bowels be moved with compassion toward them (D. & C. Oe * * * * My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; And then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high; thou shalt triumph over all thy foes. Thy friends do stand by thee, aff they Shall hail thee again with warm hearts and friendly hands. Thou art not yet Job; thy friends do not contend against thee, neither charge thee with transgression, as they did Job (D. & C. 121:7-10). Wo unto all those that discomfort my people.... For there is a time appointed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 195] for every man, according as his works Shall be. God shall give unto you knowledge by his Holy Spirit, yea, by the unspeakable gift of the Holy Ghost, that has not been revealed since the world was until now; Which our forefathers have awaited with anxious expectation to be revealed in the last time, which their minds were pointed to by the angels, as held in reserve for the fulness of their glory; A time to come in the which nothing shall be withheld, whether there be one God or many gods, they shall be manifest. All thrones and dominions,. Principalities and powers, shall be revealed and set forth upon all who have endured valiantly for the gospel of Jesus Christ (D. & C. 121: 23, 25-29). Common men walk in their time, their eyes upon the ground, and are driven by the winds of adversity. Other men walk above their time in the clouds and serve not their fellow men. Prophets of the Lord walk in the path of eternal time and cast a stairway to heaven whereby man may obtain to eternal life. Which of these was Joseph Smith, Prophet of the nineteenth century? Alien to the City Leone E. McCune A city canyon was no place For him; where buildings hewn of stone Obliterated sky and sun, Where people rushed and cars whizzed by On pavement, hot as burning sand. Born, where lush meadows, dewy wet And cool, stretched out to circling hills Of green, he tilled the soil and sowed The seed, and watched the miracle Of first new tendrils of his crops, His joy complete, when grain stood tall And golden in the stalks. But time's Swift pendulum exacts its toll. His weathered figure, slight and bent And crowned by silver hair, still roamed The quiet lanes; his fading eyes Still scanned the sweet domain he loved, With pride and satisfaction. Here In this heaven of his own he lived and died. Mirror, Mirror Marjorie Linthurst as she clenched the back of the doctor's chair. It was time again to see if her little son, Johnny, would be able to walk, and again, looking at the big mirror at the end of the exercise room, she felt the old familiar chill start up her spine. Miss Cassier supported Johnny's five-year-old body carefully in readiness for the doctor's signal. He's so thin, thought Julie. "You see that mirror over there, Johnny," the doctor was saying, "now what we want you to do is to walk right up to it until you touch yourself." Johnny nodded eagerly, leaning forward as though he would surely break away from Miss Cassier and run across the room. When she eased him to his feet, however, only one foot would hold him. The other gave away as it had the time before. Julie winced at the surprise and resentment on his face. "T used to do it, Mommy," he cried, "I used to walk!" Julie turned away to hide the tears in her eyes. Opening the screen door that connected the clinic with its sunny patio, she limped to a bench in the corner. It was an old limp, one she'd had since the childhood polio attack that had almost robbed her of life. This is not I, she thought, this could not be happening to my son, too. Oblivious to the soft-footed nurses who moved swiftly to and fro beJoss Patten's thin hand shook hind the bright zinnias that bordered the path, she was thinking of Philip, who'd always wanted a son, and how happy he had been when she gave him one five years after they were married—the only child ever to be given them. The clinic door clicked open and from behind his little wheelchair, Johnny smiled across the lawn to her. "We're going out for our swim now. Don't you want to watch?" The cheer in his voice brought an edge to Julie's mood, with a recollection of that same forced joviality which had been a part of her own childhood. She cleared her throat. "No thanks, I feel tired. I think I'll rest here." She waved and smiled. Johnny raised his bathrobed arm, wiggling his fingers. Julie looked after them, feeling the warm solitude closing in once more. When they're little, she thought, you warn yourself not to care too much, then, lulled by the good years, you find that already they are a part of you. She caught a strand of brown hair away from the brisk little breeze and held it against her cheek. It had been only last year about this time that the three of them started off so gloriously to the beach where Philip had rented a cottage. Oh, if only we had stayed home, thought Julie, leaning back against the stone wall, if only we could go back. Page 667 668 HAT August afternoon when Philip brought Johnny up the weathered wooden steps to where she was sitting with a friend on the cottage porch, she knew. The familiar terrible headache, the weakness, the fever—polio. They had taken him at once to the children's hospital, and waited. Actually it was only eight hours before the nurse called her in to see him, but it seemed as though she had already waited all of his lifetime. | The doctors had been cheerful. For months they believed that he would recover completely. Later, they told her that her son would walk always with a limp. What a duet, she had thought bitterly, mother and son. Miss Cassier would be bringing Jimmy back soon now. Philip was due at noon to pick them up. "How's my boy?" he'd say, more to Johnny than to her., Later she'd tell him that Johnny had failed to walk again. In front of Johnny she could say nothing. How can you tell a child that this thing is going to be a part of him all his life—that a limp will become his personality. She knew all of these things because once, she, too, had faced a mirror like the one in the clinic and had seen herself, a strange little girl, dragging a thin, crippled foot along the floor. She was still thinking of these things when Philip and Miss Cassier came back from the pool. Philip had been around watching Johnny perform. 'They were both grinning as Philip pushed Johnny's chair toward her. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 After they were settled in the car "and Philip had gone around to the driver's side to get in, Miss Cassier came over to tell Johnny goodbye. He smiled cheerfully and waved to' her as they drove off. Mo-LtY and Joe Larsen, who were partners in Philip's advertising agency, and some new people, the Calhouns, were coming to dinner that evening. Coming up the steps behind Philip, Julie thought of these people in connection with him. What of a man tied to a family such as this one? Had Molly and Joe and all the other friends wondered why Philip had married a cripple, dark, handsome, clever Philip Patten who could have had any girl? They came through the hall to the kitchen. Already Nina had steaming bowls of her delicate onion soup and little brown crackers. And cheese set out on the table. "You're wonderful," Julie told her. She threw her jacket upon the dinette chair, smiling at this middleaged woman who was more friend than servant. "How did you know I thought it might be a day for soup?" "Leaves are starting to drop, and there's a nip in the air." Nina smoothed the cushion behind Jimmy's back. "He didn't make it again, Nina," said Julie. "He will," vowed Nina quickly. "Some day you'll never know there had been anything the matter." Geraniums and sunshine, clean, shining blue pottery, cheer. Oh, Nina, she thought, how I wish that I could believe in fairy tales, too. MIRROR, MIRROR "Oh, Mary Benton called," said Nina as Philip came back from washing Johnny's hands and they sat down. "She's dropping by this afternoon. Says she won't take no for an answer." An unpleasant tremor hit Julie. She would, she thought. They ate lunch and Nina took Johnny into his room for a rest. Julie came around to sit beside Philip at the table. "Don't let Mary worry you," he said, narrowing his dark eyes, smiling. Julie looked at him, sensing both his concern and impatience with her mood. 'She makes me feel inadequate." — "But why?" Phil's hand touched the curve of her chin. "Well, there was a job we were both applying for once, a very good position. She got it, although I was better qualified. I told that to the personnel director and I could see by the look on his face that it was my limp that disqualified me. Mary and I got to talking after the interviews were over " Her voice tapered off, and Phil jumped to his feet and looked at his watch. "Don't let her worry you," he said, kissing her, "forget about that old job. That was years ago." "She still has it," said Julie. He left for the agency, and Julie slipped on a fresh dress, going over in her mind the little details that needed attention. Musn't forget to put a light blanket over Johnny, or put the little crab sandwiches Nina had made before going out, into the refrigerator. When the doorbell chimed she stopped, dead calm, with what she 669 was doing, and then with that same tense, withdrawn air went to answer the door. MarY came in with a flourish, swooping into the sunroom and into a gay little chair like a bee dips into a flower. She was all bee, yellow hair, fuzzy brown lashes, tan eyes.; After she was settled, Julie handed her a glass of cherryade and sat down carefully on the bright tropical flowers of the couch, tucking the awkward foot under her body. Suddenly Mary leaned forward, her vivacious face bursting with pride. "Remember Stan Townsley?" she asked., "Son of the store owner, 'Townsley?" "The same," Mary flicked a thread from her nylons, and a diamond blazed out at Julie from her left hand. "How nice," Julie said numbly. The best job. The richest husband. "Don't let her worry you, Julie," Philip had said. "Remember Stan Townsley has been married before." Julie said, with an effort, "I'm so glad, when is it to be?" "We want a December wedding." Mary leaned back in the chair, - stretching her arms above her head. "Can't you imagine the Caribbean by moonlight?" Julie made her lips form appropriate words. "But Johnny, poor, poor baby, how is he?" Mary asked, solicitously. It makes her feel surer of herself, seeing me so unsettled, thought Julie. 670 Johnny was up when Julie came back in the house after waving Mary off down the hill, and Philip came in as she was getting the clothes from the closet. He dropped his coat limply on the vanity bench. "Hi." She put the coat on a hanger briskly, patting his face as she limped by. "We don't have much time, Phil." "T know." He sat up straighter. "Pl take a quick shower." Getting clean things from his dresser, he said, "Nina works too hard, do you know it?" You do, too, thought Julie, buckling her black evening sandals, you work and work and work and come home at night to play with Johnny because he can't get out like other little boys. Quickly, she got into the black slip with its soft black overskirt and straight Mandarin jacket. Red. Philip liked red. The first time she'd worn this dress she and Phil and Joe and Molly had gone out to dinner together to celebrate Johnny's arrival, when he was only three weeks old. That had been, as Molly said, the event of the first baby sitter. Julie had worried all through dinner, but, according to Molly, that kind of worry was as things ought to be. HILIP finished dressing, knotting his tie with an expert hand, but by the time Julie arrived in the kitchen, Johnny was already finished eating and he had been tucked on the big low couch with his bright little cars to play with. "He just wouldn't wait, Mrs. Patten." Nina's capable hands were busy opening olives, rinsing them, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 as she spoke. "He didn't eat much lunch, you know." "Oh, I know." There were voices in the living room, which meant that the company had already arrived. Julie stood irresolute, watching Johnny who had slid off the couch and was now playing much as any normal child would, upon the rug. Bending swiftly, Julie kissed the back of his neck. "May I come in, too, Mommy?" "Not now, dear." Not all of Philip's pitiful family for the company at once. Julie limped to the door. "Nina'll briag you in later. Uncle Joe brought some new people tonight." "Wish I could come now." The little red automobile trembled in | his hand. She blew him a kiss. "Later." "Mommy!" 'The urgency in his voice made her turn to look his way. "Mommy, am I going to ever walk?" "Yes, oh yes, of course, Johnny!" Quickly she knelt beside him, cradling his head, but he pushed her away with those same sturdy little hands that had trembled a moment ago. "Will I limp like you?" he demanded. Julie was silent, her face miserable. Finally she sighed and said, "Yes, Johnny." "But limping never made any difference to you, Mommy." Julie hesitated. Now was the chance to tell him how hard it would be to live with a defect. But no, she thought, I've been a pattern so far. [ think it's a blessing to both of us that I've been allowed to bea pattern. (Continued on page 717) Josef Muench Wi caheurieue Mlorning Lydia Hall Here in the morning sunlight, Far from the dusty town, I walk where fields are purple And hemmed with gold and brown. A trailing vine is spilling Color on an old stone wall, And from a fence comes ringing A red-winged blackbird's call, The wayside bushes blossom With hosts of butterflies, And cottonwoods are torches ' Against the tender skies. The clouds are far-flung banners That march in bright array, And I am so much richer Than I was yesterday. Page 671 Home—Our First Line of Defense Elder William H. Boyle Professor Emeritus, Brigham Young University OME sometimes is a place where we come in, hang our hats, eat, and go to bed. It is sometimes the place where we grumble the most and are treated the best. Home sometimes is where we say in the morning, "Hello—remember me?" and "good night" at the end of a busy day. Home should be the magic circle within which the weary spirit finds refuge. It should be the sacred asylum to which the careworn heart retreats. It should always be a green spot in Our memory, an oasis in the desert. The home should be a place of rest, of warm friendship, warm greetings, loving hearts, fond glances and heartfelt and heart-expressed appreciation. Without friends and loved ones, home is nothing but a name. Here, too, we must learn about economic, social, and spiritual forces that shape our motives and our attitudes to meet a complex society as found in our state and our nation and a world of nations. The machine age and the industrial revolution put grave responsibility on every parent in every home. Every invention has brought along with it countless social problems. We must meet them. We cannot turn back. Sometimes I wonder if we have been physically equipped to make as many adjustments, as many changes in our base as society demands of us. It is so stimulating, it is frightening. Too many people going to the altar are totally unaware of what it Page 672 means to be a parent. A marriage license and a 'marriage ceremony in no way equip people for parenthood. Sound home life does not come overnight. It starts the day we are born and ends the day we die, and begins anew in a life that knows no parting. A man and a woman are the products of home more than anything else. The school and the church follow. N an address, Third District Judge J. Allan Crockett, Salt Lake City, Utah, echoed what other authorities have repeatedly stressed, that most criminals and delinquents come from broken or maladjusted homes. "It is rare to find them coming from homes where parents are living together in mutual love and respect and in the fear of God," the jurist said. He expressed the opinion that the solution of most social problems lies first in the home and second in the schools and churches. In a series of lectures by experts before a Salt Lake parent-teacher association, it was stressed that mothers and fathers can help children acquire acceptable and realistic conceptions of themselves by providing the proper adult models. 'The following suggestions were given: telling the truth, keeping promises, being consistent in demands and discipline; being reasonable about privileges, paying allowances promptly, taking into account the customs of the child's group; shar- HOME—OUR FIRST LINE OF DEFENSE ing the home, radio, and car; providing a healthy psychological climate and being solidly behind the child when he is in trouble. The importance of discipline cannot be overlooked. In and out of school children still have to learn to do what they don't want to do and do it willingly. They have to do this for no other reason than, as adults, they will spend the largest part of their life doing that. President Brigham Young's wise advice was this: We can guide, direct, and prune a tender sprout and it inclines to our direction, if it is wisely and skillfully applied. So, if we surround a child with healthy and salutary influences, give him suitable instructions, and store his mind with truthful traditions, maybe that will direct his feet in the way of life. We should never permit* ourselves to do anything that we are not willing to see our children do. We should set them an example that we wish them to imitate. Do we realize this? How often we see parents demand obedience, good behavior, kind words, pleasant looks, a sweet voice and a bright eye from a child or children when they themselves are full of bitterness antl scolding! How inconsistent and unreasonable this is. Dr. O. Spurgeon English, professor of psychiatry, 'Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in an address in Salt Lake City, remarked: The giving of mental health begins with the parent, the church and the school. These together should give the basic foundation of good working personality. Then come the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, youth groups and recreational organization. Then come child care, children's hospitals, social service, family service, delinquency prevention, psychological and vocational counseling, psychiatric wards in general hospitals and finally mental hospitals. 673 Some of the steps toward mental health have been listed by authorities on human development as follows: Being a wanted child. Having happily married parents. Satisfying play experiences with other children. Congenial school experience; romantic, playful, successful adolescence. Congenial work suited to temperament. Happy marriage and satisfying parenthood. Prestige and success from work. Enjoyable participation in community activity. Interest in teaching the young. An old age rich in pleasant memories and continued activity. The wrong road, on the other hand, usually consists of the following steps: Being an unwanted child, having unhappily married, quarreling parents; painful childhood play experiences, anxious, tense school days; bleak, unpopular, isolated adolescence; uncongenial work, cartied out from a sense of duty; unhappy marriage; reluctant acceptance of parenthood; no prestige or success from work; no participation in social or community activity; no 'interest in helping others; increasing bitterness and hostility. The child can never be considered separate from his environment. The home must see to it that the child is not cheated out of his opportunities to grow from immaturity to maturity. We must be sure we do not warp precious personalities. The home is the right place to start and it is the right place to keep going. The home should be a blessing. If it is associated with moral and social excellence many of society's headaches would be _ eliminated. Then the home would be a silent, permanent, irresistible, overwhelming force for good. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1891 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" REAL AND IDEAL O, happy childhood, bright with faith and hope, Enchantment dwells within thy rosy bowers, And rainbow tints gild all within thy scope, And youth sits lightly on a bed of flowers, His cup of happiness just brimming o'er, Unconscious of what life has yet in store. Though all along life's weary, toilsome way, We meet with disappointments hard to bear, Yet strength is given equal to our day, And joy is oft'nest mixed with pain and care; But let us not grow weary in well-doing, Still persevere, the upward path pursuing. —E. B. W. THE IRRIGATION CONGRESS: | Extracts from President Cannon's Address: We have kept from monopolizing the land and been wifling to have it distributed in small holdings, so that every man might have a foothold. I believe that I do not overstate the truth when I say that in no part of these United States is there a population containing so many people living on their own lands and owning their own houses as in Utah Territory. In 1853, or thereabouts there was scarcely enough water in City Creek to water the gardens of Salt Lake City, and it was thought then that we had reached the utmost limit of our supply. But it is a fact that our water has increased in almost every stream throughout all these mountains. I believe there is a kind Providence that watches over man, that wherever man goes Providence is there to aid in his efforts. |: MEMORY'S GUIDANCE Over the moonlit, misty fields, In freedom I have roamed tonight, Review'd at will old by-gone scenes, Time carried away in its flight. Night had hushed the shadowy earth, Soft fleecy clouds curtained the sky, Birds to their nests had all gone forth, And the winds breathed scarcely a sigh. —L. M. Hewlings COLONIA DIAZ, MEXICO: We were organized by Bishop William Derby Johnson, Jr. On the sth of January, 1888, with six officers and twenty-four members. This was in the early days of this settlement, when we were living in tents and tabernacles like Abraham, Isaac and Jacob of old. Now our Society has increased in numbers and we have been steadily growing in experience, and love of our pleasing labors, that have brought to us so much benefit and profit. We number now, officers and members, seventy-seven, and our average attendance is forty.—Ada A. Earl Page 674 AUDE ADAMS, seventy-eight, contributed for the exhibit of "Wonderful Moments in the New York Theater," the "diamond and emerald" crown she wore in "A Kiss for Cinderella," her 1917 farewell Broadway performance. Miss Adams made her dramatic debut (as an infant in arms) in the old Salt Lake Theater, with her mother, Utah actress, Annie Kiskadden. ILLICENT CAREY McINTOSH, dean of Barnard College, is the wife of a busy pediatrician, Dr. Rustin McIntosh, and mother of five children. With good management, strength, and family co-operation, she is successful at all three jobs. The family spend their week-ends at home and often go all together on business trips or vacations. Her understanding husband approves of her career. RS. LEONARD ROBINS of Scipio, Utah, and her husband, celebrated their diamond wedding last April 28. He is ninety-five, and she, ninety-three. 'They may be the oldest married couple in the nation. "In seventy-five years, I have never called him anything worse than sweetheart," says Marie Nielsen Robins of her husband. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. ANDREW M. (MARGARET YOUNG) BOYLE, of Salt Lake City, sister of Robert D. Young, president of the Salt Lake Temple, is ninety-seven and a half years Old. She has buried three children, has eight living, and counts 240 grandchildren, great, and great-great-grandchildren. She does her own housework, has wonderful health and vision, and has never "taken a pill nor a powder." RS. JOHN DAVIS LODGE, wife of the governor of Connecticut, has worked side by side with her husband in every important undertaking. She is now leading the women of her state in a defense program. T the fifteenth Annual Convention of the National Federation of Press Women held in Seattle, Washington, last June, a large number of women editors, business managers, publishers, and columnists were in attendance. Two had been voted "woman of the year" in their respective communities. What an influence on American life women with powerful press positions can exert! Page 675 EDITORIAL m2 VOL. 38 OCTOBER 1951 NO. 10 She Sabbath for Man A fundamental commandment of the all-wise Father to his children on this earth is disobeyed and often utterly disregarded in the world today. It was instituted at the creation of the world: And on the seventh day, I, God, ended my work, and all things which I had made; and I rested on the seventh day from all my work, and all things which I had made _ were finished, and I, God, saw that they were good; And I, God, blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it; because that in it I had rested from all my work which I, God, had created and made (Moses 3c cemeanre Recently there was an opportunity afforded to spend the Sabbath day aboard a vessel. In such a restricted space it was possible to note the manner in which the passengers observed this commandment of the Lord. At intervals during the morning three church denominational services were held. Later in the day a concert of classical music was heard in one of the lounges over the loud-speaking system. The other listed activities consisted of betting on the horse races, ping-pong, shuffleboard, tennis, swimming, movies, cocktail drinking, card playing, partying, and dancing. The spirit of the ship was one of revelry and pleasure seeking. A serious aspect of the non-observance of the Sabbath seemed to be that there was no evidence of an awareness of disobedience to the Page 6/6 Lord. Even the people who attended a divine service felt perfectly free to spend the rest of the day as their whims moved them. Their appreciation of the law of the sanctification of the Sabbath seemed nonexistent. It caused one to wonder at the long-suffering and mercy of the Lord in not visiting more calamities upon his heedless and disobedient children. It also caused one to sense more fully the responsibility resting upon the saints to observe fully this sacred law that they may be a leaven and a savor to turn aside, as permitted in righteousness, the judgments of God on the world. The light and knowledge given to faithful, seeking Latter-day Saints shone in glorious contrast against the veil and mist of disobedience and ignorance. The possibilities for joy and exaltation in the eternities stretched limitless for all who obey the commandments. The Latter-day Saint knows that the Father himself sanctified the Sabbath day; that the Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath. Yet sometimes members of the Church may be heard to complain that their many Church duties give them anything but a rest on Sundays. Such a person might also decide it would be more restful to spend the evening home rather than to attend sacrament meeting. Proper EDITORIAL Sabbath observance feeds the spiritual body. Probably foremost would be the partaking of the Lord's Supper. Likewise, one would expect that the fulfilling of Church duties on the Lord's day would nourish the spiritual body. Observing the sanctity of the day brings promised blessings. Let all essential activities in a home be in the spirit of the decree "And on this day, Thou shalt do none other thing only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or in other words, that thy joy may be full" (D. & C. 59:13). There are always those who question, Is it all right to do this or the other thing? The Lord has said that it is a slothful servant who must be compelled in all things. The law of the Sabbath has been given and sufficient interpretation by Church authorities for everyone's Sabbath walk. Ignorance of the law is no excuse, yet each is given his free agency. A mother in a home has a grave responsibility to conform in her own conduct, and to guide, teach, and train her children in proper Sabbath observance. If a question 677 arises regarding an activity, she may ask herself, Is it in the spirit of a day of rest, is it paying one's devotions to the Most High, does it perpetuate the spirit of a holy day? The answer to these questions may decide the propriety of the activity. Oh, that all Latter-Day Saints would observe this great, basic commandment, remembering the warning of the Lord, "Who am I that made man that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments?"* (D. & C. 58:30). May it not be said of us today, "They were slow to hearken unto the voice of the Lord, their God; therefore, the Lord, their God, is slow to hearken unto their prayers, to answer them in the day of their trouble" (D. & C. 101:7). In these anxious and trying times, how needed are the blessings promised in return for observance of the holy day, and how wise will they be who, casting aside indulgent and selfish pleasures, reap the sure rewards of obedience to this vital commandment, in force at the creation of the world, thundered from Mt. Sinai, taught by the Savior, and specifically commanded in this, the last dispensation. —M. C. S. <> Birthday Beatrice K. Ekman The birds are gone, no bees hum in the clover; Above the yellow trees, a stretch of gray Has shrouded purple hills and tall peaks over, And shut the brightness of the sun away. The fading stubble fields are gleaned and sober, Where all the ways of harvesting are done-. Alone, I keep your birthday in October— Turning the leaves of memory one by one The Family Reunion Elsie C. Carroll loaded car winds up a mountain road, crossing cool streams splashing and gurgling over beds of shining stones, winding through clumps of tall, fragrant spruce and fir trees, and at last stops within a government-provided camping ground. Children pour out of the car, laughing and shouting. "We're the - first ones here. Hurray!" "This is our same camping place.... See those two big pines holding their arms out to us. Is this all right, Mom?" "Yes, of course. It's near a hydrant, and the stove and table were handy last year." These first arrivals for the family reunion busy themselves unloading the car, deciding where is the best place for the tent, and gathering wood to cook the first breakfast. They look frequently towards the road leading into the camping ground. "Will someone get some water and bark and small sticks to start the fire? We had better have breakfast before there is too much going on." "See! There comes another car. Wonder who it is?" "Tll bet it's Uncle Will. Always comes early." "No. Its a Pontiac. Uncle Will drives a Chev." "It's Uncle Peter. Hello! Hello!" "Come over this way and camp by us." | The car bumps over the uneven ground and comes to a stop. The Page 678 He occupants pile out to a chorus of greetings. "It's so good to see you!. How well you all look! Pete and Jan, youre both getting younger." "Ts this Jimmy? How he's grown, and looking more and more like his dad all the time." "Tsn't it grand to be here?" "Perfect, but we shouldn't have come this year—with things so unsettled at the plant. But—the family reunion—we just couldn't miss it." "Neither could we. I guess we all have our problems, but since we started to have our reunions here in the mountains, well, the children would be heartbroken if we didn't come." "Do you know whether Dick and Lucy are coming? Is she completely well from her operation?" Another car arrives, and another. The chorus of children's voices rises above the more subdued greetings of their elders. Cousins renew friendships formed at previous gatherings. Brother and sisters and inlaws embrace and question and exclaim in a happy mingling of tears and laughter. The children keep up a persistent chatter. "Let's go fishing." "Mom, can I go fishing with Larry and Kimmy and Cal?" "Did the baby porcupine you took home last year die?" "To the zoo? _How much did you get?" THE FAMILY REUNION Among the adults conversation is almost as desultory. "Sam, how are you since that accident? We were so thankful you weren't killed. Clara, you look wonderful." "Will, how does it seem to be a great-grandfather? Nell, you look as proud as you did when Bill was born. Is the baby Wilham III? Too bad he isn't a little older so Bill and Myrtle could come and we could all see him." "The first great-grandchild in the family! Makes us all feel old." THER branches of the family arrive at intervals and the babel of sounds increases. 'The clatter of dishes, wood chopping, snatches of popular songs whistled or sung, shouts and laughter from every direction, as tents and tarpaulins are stretched, camp beds set up, and other campmaking activities being carried on are heard. The smell of bacon blends with that of wild flowers as smoke goes up frommany camp stoves. Children come clamoring from their explorations. "Is breakfast starved." Soon the sounds become more subdued as families settle themselves around camp tables for their first meal in the mountains. "Did you bring plenty to eat, Mom?" "I want another egg." "Pass the cocoa." "Everything tastes good out here in the mountains!" "See that squirrel is eating out of Betty's hand. Isn't it cute!" ready? We're 679 "Oh, there's one eating a piece of paper napkin," "No. He's not eating it. He's stuffing it into his inner pocket to carry it away to his nest," a big brother explains. ""That's the way they carry the nuts they store away for winter." As such excited conversation goes on at one table, in other camps adults converse in lowered, confidential tones. "My goodness, hasn't Clara aged? Benny's death was surely hard on her." "Yes. I noticed. Am I as gray as Emma? She's awfully wrinkled, too." "Did you notice how pretty Grace's Emily is? I believe she was the homeliest baby I ever saw." "Yes, I remember. Grace actually cried when she looked at her." "Does Lucy's Kurt have three boys? 'Their Dick has his girl friend here, hasn't he? Looks like Lucy and Richard will soon be greatgrandparents like Will and Nell— before many more reunions." "We're all getting along to that time." "The only sad thing about family reumons is that we look at each other and realize that we're getting fat and gray and wrinkled, too." "Yes, that, and wondering who may not be with us next time." Visiting goes on from camp to camp, members of the different family units catching up on each other's affairs. By mid-morning someone calls out: "Everybody down to Uncle Will's camp to plan dinner." 680 HE one meal for which they gather around one long table is a highlight of the reunion. "Where shall we set the table this year?" they ask. "Not by the pavilion. The sun got on us before we were through last year." "There's a good place by Jim's camp—lots of shade and close by the water." _ "What about tables and benches?" "How many are here? Anybody know?" "Mattie, don't you always count noses and keep statistics—to write up the reunion?" "T've been trying to count. With young Kurt and his family who just came, I think there are one hundred and seven." "Looks like the most important thing about the reunion to you women folk is a chance to exchange. Your cooking." "And to you men, a chance to eat it." Finally time for the dinner arrives. And the long table by Jim's camp is loaded., Appreciative comments are exchanged as the hungry crowd wait for the last hampers to be unloaded. "Reminds me of the tables we used to set for the threshers." "Looks like enough to feed a multitude." Each woman proudly sets forth her contribution of culinary efficiency and art in the section designated for meats, salads, relishes, dessetts, or beverages. Each, eying the contributions of her relatives, hopes that her own salad or cake or jelly will bring as much praise and as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 many requests for recipes as the others. Older girls stand near the table with newspapers or branches from shrubs to keep away the flies. "There's about a hundred cakes and pies and big platters heaped up with chicken, and melons—Gosh! Why don't they hurry?" the children ask. "My mom brought a cake in a dripper about a yard long." "Mine made a big panful of salad." At last the welcome call, "Come to dinner!" brings a scamper of hurtying feet. "Will, you're the oldest. Why don't you return thanks?" someone suggests. There is a hush as heads are bowed. If time could only stop. Life is very precious at such times. "Will, you and Nell start the line and everybody follow around the table. Some of us will help the children." The tempo of conversation slows, but there are constant exclamations. "Doesn't it all look good! "IT never was so hungry in my life!" (WHEN the meal is finished, while the women clear the table, the older men stretch out on camp cots, hammocks, or blankets to doze. The younger ones organize a ball game and horseshoe throwing contest. The children, munching a_ last cookie or licking an ice cream cone, wander away to renew their games and explorations. Later in the afternoon there is a general gathering at the pavilion, for the annual reunion program. THE FAMILY REUNION After singing some favorite songs, an opening prayer gives thanks for the ancestors who made such occasions as the one they are enjoying possible; gratitude for the heritage they left; and a plea for continuance of the traditions, love, and loyalty that bind the family together. The program continues with committee reports, tributes to revered ancestors, and highlights in family history. Committees and officers are selected for the next reunion. Then comes the part of the pro- _ gram, more interesting to at least the younger members of the group— songs, readings, and stunts, in which families vie with each other for honors. After the program, photographs are taken of the entire company, of the various age groups, of scenes, animals, clouds—anything that will help to make a permanent record. Later, comes the evening bonfire gathering. To many this is the best feature of the day, to sit in a circle around the huge fire sending its sparks toward the stars. The olacr members sense a deep joy in this hour of cherished companionship and want to hold each moment close. When they are settled, someone begins to sing a favorite song, and song after song follows. Finally someone asks, "Do you remember...?" and story follows story of memorable experiences they shared in their young years. They laugh at incidents that were once catastrophes. The reminiscing continues until many of the children have fallen 681 asleep on their mothers' laps. 'There is repeated yawning as limbs are stretched and wraps drawn closer, for the mountain air becomes chilly. The great stack of wood beside the fire has all been thrown onto the coals, stick by stick, and now only embers glow. "It's almost eleven," someone exclaims. "Hadn't we better turn in?" Reluctantly the circle breaks up. Flashlights and lanterns flicker through the trees as goodnights are exchanged. "What time are you leaving in the morning?" one shadowy figure calls to another as they wind back to the camping grounds. "Not too early. We've got to eat up some more of that food we brought." "Hasn't it been wonderful! Too bad we can't make it a week. Well, good night." "Good night." Voices are warm and tender. Indistinct sounds fill the darkness—laughter, the chopping of wood, water flowing from hydrants. These continue for a time. Then only the night noises of the mountain—the whispering of trees, the scurry of small foraging creatures, the distant howl of a arora are heard. Many pairs of eyes continue for a long time to look at the starry sky. Loving thoughts arise—of the father and mother who founded the family, of the many members of the family sleeping in the quiet of the everlasting hills, and little prayers are breathed—prayers of gratitude for the love and loyalty that create the annual family reunion. Perfect Sunday Elaine Swain HE mid-spring morning was cool and crisp. The blossomscented air stung Margey's face. Immediately after Sunday School she and Bill had begun this visit she had been both anticipating and dreading. She knew Bill was going to ask that important: question—but how could she say yes when she had told him so little about herself and her family? Now Bill turned the car off the main highway onto a narrow country road. "Only five more miles," he said.,, Margey of cold shivered. Little fingers pricked at her skin. "Oh, Bill," she exclaimed, "I do hope | they'll like me." "Like you?" Bill laughed, "they'll be crazy about you. Mom will probably send you home with an armload of roses, and she says roses belong in the air and sunshine. She only picks them for very special people." Margey Wicned a large farmhouse with spacious gardens. Bill's family must have background, cul-. Ture. They'd never think her good enough for their only son, especially when they learned of that ramshackle house on the edge of town filled to overflowing with her brothers and sisters. And if she said yes, Bill would find out. She'd have to _take him home. The very thought brought an uneasy sensation to the pit of her stomach. Bill Larsen, back for his master's degree, had become a legend at LaPage 682 mont College. He had been outstanding in basketball, track, and scholarship. Ever since that day when he had stopped to chat with her—the pale, new girl at the information desk—Margey had felt like a different person, not like Margey O'Rielly from Centerville, whose folks were always struggling to make ends meet, but like someone interesting and attractive. She looked up at Bill's strong profile, love and admiration for him coursing through her body. She didn't want him to know she was worried. "You've been talking about your mother, Bill, now tell me what your father's like," she asked. "T can't explain Dad to you," Bill answered. "You'll just have to meet him. To me, he's perfect. I have wonderful memories of the times we've had hunting in the hills back of the farm, fishing in the creek, building a tree house in the old elm. Dad's been the kind of father every boy should have." Margey thought of her own fa ther. Shiftless, some people called him, but he'd loan his last five dollars to anyone who needed it. He was always putting money into crazy inventions, dreams of success that never came true, yet her mother went on, never complaining, looking after the seven children, with faith that one day he would be lucky. Margey could never take Bill home. Never, never, she silently decided. PERFECT SUNDAY _ The car bumped over a bridge, and Bill pointe! Across the creek. "Our place runs halfway up those hills," he said, "I've always thought it would be a wonderful place to build a home." Margey's heart quickened. She knew he meant their home, but she couldn't answer. She sighed, an anxious, tremulous sigh. Bill took her hand and pressed it gently against his cheek. The road curved to the left. "Our place begins here," he said. It was an apple orchard. Margey filled her lungs with the sweet, warm perfume. Some of the trees were a bit crooked, but the gnarled old branches were in full bloom, blushpink against the sky. HEN they turned into the walnut-lined driveway all Margey could see was a barn, a huge red building with a Dutch roof. Her eyes had to search for the house. It was small and weather-beaten and in need of paint. On one side she could see about a dozen rose bushes. Bill led her toward the middle-aged couple who came out to meet them. "So dis bane Marge." Bill's mother spoke with a heavy, guttural accent. A smile spread over her broad face. She wrapped her short, plump arms first around Margey, then around Bill. Bill's father extended a large calloused palm. "Es goot you're here." He shook her hand. He slapped Bill on the shoulder. Bill slapped him back, and they followed Margey and Bill's mother into the house. The living room was small. Crocheted doilies covered the backs and 683 arms of the worn chairs. As Bill's mother let Margey into the front bedroom she pressed her hand against a bit of torn wallpaper. "Year before last vas the barn. This year Bill's school. Next year maybe ve get new paper. You like to freshen up, Margey? I go see to the chet boller—ve have chet boller, Norvegian meatballs, for dinner." Slowly Margey brushed back her hair. In the cracked mirror were reflected a frayed hooked rug, faded curtains, and an old, four-poster bed. Everything was so different from what she had imagined, so plain and so frugal. But Bill's people were friendly, kind people. How could she have judged him so differently? How could she have let the Bill Larsen legend tinge her thinking? Just because he was important at school she had imagined—oh, she had imagined so many things. And she had been so afraid. Now she felt a surge of happiness. Bill's mother called from the kitchen. "You like to come out here, Margey?" But when she stepped out of the bedroom, Bill's father stopped her in the living room. "Sit down, Margey. You like a little cider before dinner? Maybe you like to see the barn, or is but a little valk to the creek." ' Bills mother came to stand in the doorway. "Villiam, let the girl be. A long drive and she is tired." "How about the cider?" Bill asked. He grinned at Margey. "The cider's extra special." "Ya," his mother chimed in, "Villiam makes it." 684 Bill's father looked pleased. He said, "I bring in de cider." Mrs. Larsen clapped her hands. "Ve use stem glasses,' she said gaily. "Reach dem down, Bill." ARGEY sipped the cool amber liquid. Bill was telling his parents about school. His father leaned forward, nodding acquiescence, pride in his son reflected by each gesture. His mother looked from one to the other, encompassing them both in her love. Something about this place reminded Margey of home. And she had been ashamed of home! Now, she was ashamed of herself. Bill had brought her here, knowing _ it was the love, the goodness, and the giving she would see. Since this very morning so many things she had thought about him had changed, even her feeling for him had changed; it was deeper and more real. Now she knew that be- ~ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 he was really like, but he had found the love to understand her. Thankfulness for this love filled her being. Later, after dinner and a tour of the farm, Margey waved goodbye to Bill's parents from behind an armful of roses. Bill turned out of the drive and drove slowly past the orchard. "It was a good day at the Larsen's, wasn't it?" he asked. Then he stopped the car and turned toward her. Softly, he said, "Margey—darling—let's make this only the beginning of good days. When school's out, will you marry 'me?"' Margey did not hesitate. "Yes, Bill, yes," she whispered. When, at length, she drew away, she said, "It's really been a perfect day, Bill. And, Bill," she went on, a new-found understanding shining from behind the tears in her eyes, cause she had doubted herself, she "next Sunday let's visit the had been unsure of him, and what O'Riellys." —-— Slight Call Mary Gustafson The call of wild geese in their southern flight Comes suddenly to break my fitful sleep, And cause a knotted lump to rise and creep From heart to throat, when in the lost-of-night Wild travelers cry their pilgrimage from height Of star-spread sky. Masked longings well from deep Inside to answer the compelling sweep Reverberating from the out-of sight. As strange unrestfulness possesses me, I, too, would follow where the leader turns His wedge-shaped flock to an appointed -place Through far-off miles, to find tranquility, Because I am chained, though all my being yearns To join the winged adventurers in space. Through This Door CHAPTER 3 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Mary Ruth Grayson tries to care for her father and her motherless brothers 'and sisters. Rachel Marriott, who had once been wealthy, comes to live in the shabby old house across the street, and with much effort manages to make the place homelike and attractive for her husband and her daughter Lora. Mrs. Marriott takes an interest in Mary Ruth and teaches her some of the arts of housekeeping, as well as giving her love and companionship. Mrs. Marriott is very much worried over her financial situation, and one day, in town with Mary Ruth and Lora, she meets an old friend, Thelma Williams. OMETHING deep in me knew that Mrs. Marriott was aware both of. Our stares and our thoughts. I knew she was steeling herself to endure them as she had steeled herself to endure many things. She introduced me as her friend. | Thelma Williams lifted her brows. "How do you do," she said as from a great height. She turned immediately to Mrs. Marriott. "Charles has been made manager of the bank here, and we're stuck in this dreadful hole. I made him buy a ranch out of town. I try to keep it filled with people from town. Otherwise, I would perish of boredom." Her narrowed, discontented eyes happened to fall on Lora, and they widened. "What an utterly exquisite little dress! One of your creations I suppose?" Mrs. Marriott nodded, smiling. "You used to drive me quite mad, the way you knew just how to fix your daughter, and my Connie such a problem.. She still is." Thelma Williams hesitated, she looked again at Mrs. Marriott's gloves. She said, "If you will make some clothes for Constance I'll pay you well." There was a small coldness where we stood, as though an icy wind had blown out of Mrs. Williams' mouth. There was a great pressure in my chest as though the wind moved strongly against me. But Mrs. Marriott grew taller and straighter. I waited for her to shrivel Thelma Williams with a word. I knew the words were in her. But she said, with careful gentleness, "I would be happy to make them. My charge is five dollars a dress, that is, if you furnish the materials." Mrs. Williams became very brisk. "That's fine. I'll bring the materials and Connie to your house tomorrow. Just write down the address, will you, dear?" It was as if Thelma Williams had climbed three steps to stand above us. Mrs. Marriott wrote down her address on an old envelope in her purse, and we went on. But at the yard goods counter she sat suddenly on one of the little round stools and leaned her head on her hand. She was trembling all over. Page 685 686 I said, "I forgot an errand I promised to do for Dad." I went away and left her. I passed Thelma Williams again, but she was with another woman. She looked through me, not speaking. 'I prayed hard for Mrs. Marriott all the way home. I prayed that some relative, very rich, would die and leave her all his money, that she could drive past Thelma Williams in a beautiful red convertible and splash mud all over her. But my prayer was not anween Thelma Williams came to Mrs. Marriott's house one afternoon while I was there sewing. She looked all around the room in a way that made the crack in the wallpaper seem longer than it really was, and the worn place in the rug wider. She brought her daughter, Connie, who wriggled and twisted and whined while Mrs. Marriott took her measurements. When Mrs. Marriott finished, 'Thelma Williams sent her daughter out to the car. "I brought Judy along just to look after hea she said, "Connie makes me so nervous." "You mean you've left someone sitting in the car all this time, in this heat. Bring her in and I'll make some lemonade." Mrs. Marriott was all concern. "It's just the maid," Mrs. Williams said, "and, anyway, I must be going." The maid. I went to the window to look at the creature who bore this name. I caught a glimpse of a thin-faced girl, my age, in the back seat of the car reading to Connie. Because I was thirsty myRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 self, I imagined her throat parching from the heat, and slipped out in the kitchen for a glass of water. I took it out to the car. The girl reached for the glass thirstily, but Connie whined, "I want it I want it." The maid gave her the glass. There was no time to get more 'because Mrs. Williams had come down the path and was climbing in the car. "Thank you," the girl said quickly and gave me back the glass. I watched the car drive away and took a deep breath of air, glad of my freedom. Mis. Marriot came down the path. I said, "I hope she falls in the river." "No," said Mrs. Marriott. "It's all right, Mary Ruth, sometimes blessings come in the blackest disguises." She made the five dresses. They were cunningly made, with ruffles and puffs that disguised Connie's thin bones. She looked adorable in them, like a child in a magazine. Mrs. Williams was very pleased. "They're just what I wanted. You area genius. I[']l tell all our friends." Her eyes narrowed. "They've been asking about you... You dropped from sight so suddenly. I re member I used to envy you that ability to draw the loveliest people to you." Mrs. Marriott folded the dresses quickly and hurried them into the box. "They've been meaning to come and see you for ever so long but you know how it is." "IT know," said. Mrs. Marriott. "T've learned many things this summer.": THROUGH THIS DOOR AFTER that, Mrs. Marriott was busier than ever. Passing her house at night we would hear the hum of her treadle machine or see her through the window bent over the sewing in her hands. But I had many things other than Mrs. Marriott to consume my mind and my time in the months that followed. 'They sped so fast, the days, the weeks... It hardly seemed that I had come to high school before I was nearing the end of my time there. When I was a_ senior and seventeen, I fell in love. Tom Mack was the king of every girl's heart. He was greased lightning on the basketball floor. He was the hero of boys, they were around him always, patting him on the back, calling his name from doorways or across the street. Tom Mack was tall and dark, with heavy brows over blue eyes and thick dark hair, cut very short. When he stopped his battered car on the high school road one day tober and asked me if I wanted a ride home, stars floated by me like apple blossoms in April. I could only nod dumbly and climb in clumsily beside him. He started the car with a roar and we drove past all the shouting boys and girls. I sat tense with delight in the aura of his magnificence. He was forthright. When he stopped to let me out, he looked at me carefully, appraisingly, "What do you want to wear those braids for, Mary Ruth? They make you look like some darned kid." "I I don't know." I reached up my hands to the despised tresses that, until this hour, had been my pride. In Oc 687 "You cut them off and come to the game tomorrow night, and I'll drive you home after." I heard no more of what he said. I remember thanking him, drifting into the house on veils of pink mist and hunting frantically for the scissors. I couldn't find them. It turned out afterwards that one of the boys had taken them out to the sheep pen to do some shearing on his own. I raced madly up the street to Mrs. Marriott's. "You cut it," I gasped. "I'd be sure to make a mess of it." Even while I pleaded I was undoing the long ropes of hair. I will never forget the look on Mrs. Marriott's face when she took the scissors in one hand and lifted up the long strands of blond hair with the other. Laughter, tenderness, rue, they were all written in her sensitive face, though it took many years before I could transcribe them. I went to the game and Tom Mack singled me out of all the girls there. He smiled at me from the bench. He came to me directly he was dressed. The other girls drew back in deference to him, the boys looked at me with a new and awed interest. 'Tom Mack took my hand and pulled me to my feet. His eyes were on my hair. "You know, I had a hunch you would look like this. Golly!" Happiness was butterflies dipping © about in my chest. He took my hand and I went with him, blindly, gladly, not caring where. "There's a place I always go," he said, "the Purple Pigeon, want to come along?" 688 "Dad said I musn't." He looked down on me, frowning. "Where then?" I didn't know. "Oh, he won't mind," I said. We drove past all the houses where pretty girls sat with their friends in neat little living rooms, with fireplaces and pianos and television sets. But at home Dad would be sleeping in the one good chair, the evening paper still in his hand, and the girls and my brothers would giggle and point and play their fiendish tricks. We went to the Purple Pigeon. We went many times. RS. Marriott was sweeping snow from her sidewalk when I went to school one morning. It was a bitter morning, cold and windy. I had the strange feeling that she had placed herself there deliberately, but her manner was calm and friendly. "Hello, Mary Ruth, haven't seen you for a long time." I scrubbed my toe in the cleared sidewalk. "Nope, busy as all get out." "Having a nice time at school?" "Oh, just simply marvelous!" I squirmed impatiently. 'Tom was waiting for me at the corner. She coughed. "Mrs. Callister says you've been spending a lot of time at the Purple Pigeon." I looked at her suspiciously, but there was no reproof at all that I could see. I figured she had no idea about the place. "A lot of nice people go there," I said defensively. She leaned on her broom. "Mary Ruth, I've been wanting to see you RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 and talk to you for such a long time. Why don't you and Tom | Mack come to dinner, say Friday, at seven?" I could have knelt and kissed her dress. I said thickly, "Thank you, Mrs. Marriott, thank you a thousand times." I ran toward Tom, music in me all the way. - Tom opened the door of his car for me, his smile wide and clean in the snowy morning. "Someone leave you a million, Mary Ruth?" I told him about the dinner. "Please, Tom, you'll come?" He pulled my hair. "If Dad will let me off early at the store." I slid down in the seat, so happy, songs poured out of me. I looked at Tom and loved him so much it hurt., OR that Friday I wore my new sweater, navy blue, and the new red skirt. My hair was curled to my shoulders and I had painted my nails with a new silver shade. 'Tom said I looked smooth. 'Tom looked handsome and untidy, and already slightly bored with the prospect of the evening ahead. We shook off the youngsters, who adored Tom, and went across the street to the Marriotts. Mr. Marriott opened the door and welcomed us. For once there was no book in his hand. He looked frail and immaculate. "J've missed you very much, Mary Ruth. No one else seems to have quite your knack for choosing books." He ushered us into the living room as though we were visiting royalty. I saw Tom's eyes widen a little. THROUGH THIS DOOR A stranger was sitting on the couch in the living room. He leaped to his feet when we entered. He was an older man, about twentytwo, tall and very slim, with black hair in a crew cut, and_ black, sparkling eyes. Mr. Marriott introduced him proudly as "our nephew." I found out later he was Mrs. Marriott's sister's son. "Hello," Chris Jordan said. His smile was like Mrs. Marriott's, a smile that said, "I'm very glad to know you." It seemed my hand lay a long time in his warm, brown fingers. "T've heard so much about you," he said. His bright eyes searched my face. "In fact, I came down to see if it were all true." Tom bristled beside me. Mrs. Marriott came in on a wave of her own laughter. "Forgive me, Mary Ruth, I did mention you in my letters." "In every one," said Chris Jordan. "I had to come and see for myself." Mrs. Marriott put her arm through his and hugged him briefly. "One of my favorite people, Mary Ruth." She smiled at Tom. "We saw your last game. Lora cheered herself hoarse. You played very well." To my beside me. The conversation quickened, and through the talk and the laughter I hunted for scraps of information about Chris Jordan. He had been in medical school, a throat infection had forced him out and_ had relief I felt Tom relax 689 brought. Him here to Mrs. Marriott's to convalesce. He was quick in his actions and his thoughts, and it was fascinating to me to watch him with the others. He reminded me of one of the fleet, wild horses back in the canyons running easily beside first one and then another of the horses and then going fast as the wind to his own mountain top. He knew some of the best basketball teams, had seen them play. He knew all Mrs. Marriott's friends and fed her hungry heart with good, rich tales of their doings. He seemed to have read everything in the world, and he and Mr. Marriott were soon launched on Mr. Marriott's latest excitement, scientists and doctors who had done great things. HEY were still at it when we went into the dining room. I listened with all my mind and heart, not knowing what I ate, because I had never really known such men and women as they spoke about this night. Even Tom was spellbound, asking questions, urging them to go on. Lavoisier, the Frenchman who first announced that air consists of "two elastic fluids, one respirable and the other poisonous," who was brought to his death by Marat in the French revolution.... The words Lavoisier's friend pronounced at the guillotine — stuck in my heart, "Only a moment to cut off his head, and perhaps a century before we shall have another like it." Steinmetz, Marie Curie.... After tonight they 'would never be people out of (Continued on page 719) How to Make an Angora Baby Bonnet Marian Richards Boyer Material: Crochet hook, size O 1 ball "fuzzy wuzzy" Angora yarn 1 oz. Ball baby yarn ge baby yarn double—Angora single (3 -strand), chain 3 slip stitches to make a ring. Then make 6 single crochet stitches in a circle and increase one single crochet in each sista making 12 stitches in round. Continue to increase 6 stitches in each round until 12 rows from center. Crochet in each stitch without increasing, leaving 12 stitches for neck edge. Single crochet back and forth on these 64 stitches, doing four rows in baby yarn (one-strand), 4 rows Angora (one-strand), 4 rows yarn, 4 tows Angora, 8 rows yarn, and 1 Angora. Crochet two rows around back of bonnet (with baby yarn), skipping every third stitch to draw it in a little. For the ruffle, with Angora single-strand, do 5 double crochet in first stitch of fourth row back from front edge; skip one stitch, and single crochet in next stitch. Repeat across bonnet, making a row of shell stitch, and continue in shell stitch for 3 rows. With baby yarn, crochet a six-inch strap, 4 stitches wide from the right front edge, leaving a button hole in end. Sew a button on left side. Trim with clusters of rosebuds done by wrapping the yarn around needle twice, as fora French knot, and one stitch on each side, one of pink, one of blue, and one of yellow, with lines of green in between the rosebuds. Summer Ys Over Eva Willes Wangsgaard The brittle leaves sing it The warbler has finished And seed-heavy clover The song he was singing Summer is leaving, And wedges of mallards Summer is over. Point southward in winging. The stubbles are under, The orchards announce it The furrows are drying With crimson boughs bending, And gone are the sea gulls With tang of sweet cider With sharp, hungry crying. And pear scent ascending. The red-shafted flicker Has silenced his drumming. Summer is over, Autumn is coming. Page 690 Mother s Cookbook Norma Wrathall I read through its pages, and find in its charm A tear of nostalgia, a smile that is warm, To hold tight the pages, it's tied with a string I'rom Mother's print apron. You'll find anything I'rom a cure for a cold, to cakes, as you look lor recipes you require, in mother's cookbook. IIA'l' are some of the pleasantest things you remember about your early home? Whatever memories you hold dear, I'll venture to say that your mother's cooking is somehow intermingled, whether you're thinking of her holiday mince pies and fruitcake, or recalling wistfully the warm, satisfying aroma of home-made bread that drifted through the house on Saturday afternoons. In addition to recipes for good things to eat, early cookbooks were certain to contain a few tried-and-true remedies for illness. 'These home-made medicines were the bulwark of the family's fight against illness. In days when the nearest pharmacy might be fifty miles away, and a doctor even more inaccessible, Mother, like other women of her day, had to rely on her own skill and good judgment when illness struck. Mother said, however, '""I was never one to try out on my children just any remedy that a neighbor might suggest. I usually waited for a chance to ask a doctor before trying anything new." The following information is copied from a yellowed newspaper clipping, pinned to a page of Mother's book: "WHat to Eat lF SIck" "According to the Albany Argus, celery is the most valuable food for those who suffer from rheumatism and nervous diseases. Lettuce is good for insomnia. Onions are said to be the best nervine known. They are helpful in all cases of coughs, colds, and influenza. Eaten every other day, they soon have a clearing and whitening effect on the complexion. Apples are good for nervous dyspepsia. 'They are useful and satisfying, nutritious, and medicinal." The well-known mustard plaster, turpentine-and-lard poultice, and many others were mentioned in the book. But whatever the remedy, the blessing of the Lord was asked before giving medicine to the sick, and somehow, with his help, the women nursed their loved ones back to health. MOrues learned to cook the mainstays of any meal, such as the preparation of meats and vegetables, bread and biscuits, meat pie in all its ramifications, and so on, before her own mother died, when mother was fourteen. So by the time she was married, she had learned to cook "by eye," as she says. She wrote down recipes for things she didn't make quite so often. We cannot always duplicate the flavor of her cooking; but any born cook knows that she puts a little of her own personality into the finished product. The mixing bowl was Mother's constant ally. She could conjure from it a batch of fluffy biscuits or hot muffins to piece out an otherwise skimpy meal. But whether the meal was bounteous or meager, it was always good, and was always preceded by the asking of the blessing. Perhaps in any home, the enjoyment of good meals around the family table is a real part of the "tie that binds." Anyway, it provided us not only with physical nourishment, but spiritual manna as well, bolstering our courage to meet the world's challenge. Page 69] 692 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 The following recipe for wedding cake is one which might prove impractical for modern cooks. "But Mother, did you ever really bake this great big cake?" I asked, pondering the ingredients. "Make it? I should say I did!" replied Mother. "Why, it was a standard wedding cake in early days. In fact, it was the cake baked for your father's and my wedding reception." No directions are given as to the method of mixing, so you will have to decide that for yourself. WEDDING CAKE Fifty eggs, five pounds sugar, five pounds butter, five pounds flour, fifteen pounds raisins, three pounds citron, ten pounds currants, one-fourth ounce cloves, one ounce cinnamon, four of mace, four of nutmeg. This makes forty-three and a half pounds o wedding cake, and keeps twenty years. It is unequaled. | In later years, Mother adapted a recipe which she called "one-fourth recipe for wedding cake," as being more suitable to changing times. Mother has a wonderful recipe for fruitcake which she always bakes at holiday time. She starts getting the ingredients together, a few packages at a time, weeks ahead. But the nuts are obtained from her own trees, for Mother, always with the long view, planted two English walnut trees, so that we would have an ample supply. She still bakes a cake for each of us every year; it wouldn't seem like Christmas without mother's fruitcake. It is delicious right down to the last fruity crumb of cake and the last remaining bit of brown sugar frosting. | FRUITCAKE c. Sugar, rounding measure Ibs. Dried currants Ib. Butter, or high grade shortening c. Chopped walnut meats tsp. Salt (blend with butter) Ibs. Seedless raisins 3 1 1 c. Flour 6 eggs 3 2 Nw N N N heaping tsp. Baking powder heaping tsp. Cinnamon " ¢. Mild molasses tsp. Mace (or nutmeg) 2c. Sweet milk % tsp. Allspice 1 tsp. Vanilla (put in milk) Cream shortening, with salt, and sugar; beat in eggs, one at a time. Add molasses, mix well. Add flour, which has been sifted with the dry ingredients and spices, alternately with the milk, and vanilla. If the fruit has been scalded and steamed, as it should be, flour it with extra flour before adding to the cake. Add nuts. Mix well. Bake in a greased dripper lined with brown paper, in a slow oven, until a broomstraw inserted will come out clean. If the cake browns too fast on top, put a piece of brown paper over it so it will not burn. Brown SuGAR FROSTING 1% c. Brown sugar (well packed) 2 tbsp. Butter (or margarine) 1% c. White sugar pinch of salt 1 +c. Canned milk 1 tsp. Vanilla 694 4 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 2 eggs 1 c. Butter (or margarine, or use half 2c. Boiling milk margarine and half shortening) 1. C. Sugar: 2 cakes compressed yeast (dissolved in "" tsp. Salt "4 c. Warm water) flour to make a soft dough Beat eggs until very light. Pour over them, beating all the while, the boiling milk. 'Then add sugar and salt. Let mixture cool to lukewarm, then add yeast, and stir in flour until a soft dough has been formed. Turn upon board, and knead until elastic, but not stiff enough for bread. Then set in a pan to rise (covered) until very light. When light, work in softened butter. Let rise again until light. (Do not add any more flour.) Form into buns the desired size. Raisins, which have been scalded until plump, drained and floured, may be worked into the buns at this time if desired. Place buns on greased pan about one inch apart. Let rise (covered). Just before putting into the oven, brush with slightly beaten egg white and sprinkle with a mixture of sugar and cinnamon to taste. Bake in a moderate oven. These are but a few of mother's recipes. Her best ones she always carried around in her head, and to try writing them down at her direction is like trying to capture the aroma of sage dressing, or the indescribable flavor of home-made dumpling stew. But I hope you'll try some of them, and add them to your own precious collection of good food and pleasant memories. Eo Of Seeds Maryhale Woolsey Each autumn there are winged seeds Afloat on every breeze; Some carry next-year's milkweed floss... Some cradle willow-trees. I'rom flowers, from weeds, from fruits they come, And we may never know Which ones may choose our own front yard Wherein to grow! Valley Pheasants Evelyn Fjeldsted The sunshine's reach was valley-wide, Its warmth as soft as milkweed down, And pheasants gleaning in the field Came to visit near the town. Then golden stubbled lands were dimmed, The shadowed pheasants, terrified, Before the endless searching squads Fled further up the mountainside. The first snow found an obscure nest The base where fledglings learned to fly. The fields were lonely, desolate, Beneath a disapproving sky. Notes From The Field 4 Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ella O. Davis MOUNT LOGAN STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ASSEMBLED FOR STRAWBERRY FESTIVAL June 18, 1951 Front row, seated, left to mght: Evelyn Dunn, theology class leader; Ina Carlson, literature class leader; Winnifred Allen, First Counselor; Mary Larson, Magazine representative; Margaret Kloepfer, visiting teacher supervisor; Lila Jones, organist. Back row, standing, left to right: Mae Jenkins, Second Counselor; Laura Watkins, social science leader; Ella Davis, Secretary; Vilda Bartschi, work meeting leader; Lovisa H. Maughan, President; Alvina Pehrson, chorister. The secretary, Sister Davis, reports this delightful occasion: "Each year in June the stake board entertains the ward officers at a Strawberry Festival. This year a most interesting program was enjoyed, in which each ward participated. Sister Jenkins was in charge of refreshments; Ina Carlson and Ella Davis, floral arrangements; Anna Smith, program. Mary Larson made and presented each stake executive officer with a lovely corsage. 'The Mount Logan Stake presidency and high councilman advisor were special guests. About one hundred attended the festival." Page 695 696 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 Photograph submitted by Jane T. Richards BRITISH MISSION, NOTTINGHAM BRANCH BAZAAR Left to right: President Lloyd P. Oldham; Muriel Nichols, visiting teacher leader, Maude Lee, district supervisor; Lydia Oldham, President, Nottingham Branch Relief Society; Ivy Allred; Jean Russell, literature class leader; Frederick John Alldred, Counselor to President Oldham; Josie Gilbert, Secretary-Treasurer, Nottingham Branch Relief Society. Jane T. Richards is president of the British Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Twila A. Isaac PALMYRA STAKE (UTAH) PRESENTS PAGEANT FOR CLOSING SOCIAL June 5, 1951 This beautifully staged and interesting pageant, "Memories," was written by Othelia Huntington, fifth from the right, and directed by Virginia Evans, second from the left, and Vera Warren, first from the left, who assisted her. Twila A. Isaac is president of Palmyra Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 697 ndawaegh exits by Vera H. Aes NEW YORK STAKE (NEW YORK) SINGING MOTHERS Front row, seated, left to right: Mabel Clark, director; Ada Miller; Rose Huber; Elma Stoddard; Margaret Thomas; Lucille Neff. Second row, standing, left to right: Helen Thackeray; Emily Clark; Opal Christen sen; Stake Relief Society President Vera Hales; Barbara Ditmore; Veda Mortimer; Irma Bartlett; Leone Rose. Third row, standing, left to right: Erica Anderson; Dessie 'Thomas; Olive Harris; Ellis Cullimore; Jean Griffith; Bee Hickman, organist; Florence Bennett; Anne Ehrenburg; Hannah Weimer; Pauline Thomander. Photograph submitted by Lela M. Bailey SAN LUIS STAKE (COLORADO), SANFORD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS 1908-1951 Left to nght: Almina Lenington (1947-1951); Eva Martin (1943-47); Agnes Reynolds Reed (1933-36); Mable Christensen (1930-33); Amy Jones (1927-30); Lettie S. Jensen (1936-43 and 1908-12). This photograph was taken in the Relief Society room of the new chapel. Lela M. Bailey is president of San Luis Stake Relief Society. 698 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 Photograph submitted by Emma Chytraus NYSSA STAKE (OREGON), NYSSA SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS EXHIBIT CHART REPRESENTING 202 PER CENT MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS Left to right: President Ruth Bybee; Magazine representative Hazel Hunter; First Counselor Leone Beus; Second Counslor Mabel Skeen. The flowers on the chart represent gift subscriptions, and the leaves represent subscriptions of the Relief Society members. All six wards of Nyssa Stake achieved more than 100 per cent in the 1950 Magazine subscriptions. Emma Chytraus is president of Nyssa Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Edith Anderson WEISER STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS WHO PRESENTED THE MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, June 1951 Front row, seated, left to right: Weiser Stake President J. Raymond Dewey; First _ Counselor Grant W. Weber; Second Counselor E. Clifford Bradshaw; President Milton R. Hunter of the First Council of the Seventy. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 699 First row, standing: at right, pianist Evelyn Bates, and, second from the right, chorister Viola Redford. Second row, standing: Second Counselor Dorothy Zaugg, sixth from the left; President, Weiser Stake Relief Society, Della W. Alder, seventh from the left. Third row, standing: Magazine representative Fannie Chandler, second from the right. Standing at right side, in plaid dress, Alma Jensen, organist. Some of these sisters drive as far as fifty miles to singing practice, and they are devoted to all phases of Relief Society work. Photograph submitted by Josephine S. Bird UTAH STAKE (UTAH), PROVO THIRD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT SOCIAL, June 12, 1951 Standing, left to right: Florence Clark (1942-45); Reva Bullock (1936-42); Nellie Mecham (present president); Sarah L. Dixon (1913-32); Maurine Taylor (1932- 34); Nettie Madsen (1934-36); Vida Swenson (1945-49). Left inset, the first president, Mary Jane Tanner (1869-90); right inset, Eliza Taylor (1890-1913). These presidents represent eighty-three years of leadership of the Provo Third Ward Relief Society—1868-1951. Seven of these women are still living, and are residents of the Third Ward. Josephine S. Bird is president of Provo Stake Relief Society. ~<—eAusiwma Beulah Huish Sadleir Leaf upon leaf, Mound upon mound, Summer's brown toast Has covered the ground. LESSON iE} DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 4—The Migration (Continued) Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Ether, chapters 1-7.) For Tuesday, January 8, 1952 Objective: promise, applying them to our own day. FOLLOWING the instructions of the Lord, given at the time he requested divine guidance concerning where they were to go, the brother of Jared was told to "gather together thy flocks, both male and female, of every kind; and also of the seed of the earth of every kind; and thy families; and also Jared thy brother and his family; and also thy friends and their families, and the friends of Jared and their families" (Ether 1:41) and go into the valley of Nimrod, which was northward. In preparation for this journey they had also laid snares and caught birds, prepared a vessel in which they could carry fish, and collected swarms of bees. It was in this valley of Nimrod that the Lord came down and talked with the brother of Jared, but he was in a cloud and the brother of Jared did not see him. The Lord commanded the little colony to go into a wilderness where "there never had man been." Under the Page 700 To show the purpose and promises of the Lord regarding sie land of Lord's guidance they crossed many waters in barges until they were brought "forth even to that great sea which. Divideth the lands." Here they pitched their tents and remained for some years. 'hey named the place Moriancumer. At the end of four years, the Lord directed the colony to prepare to cross the ocean to the land of promise. Concerning this land to which they were being guided, Moroni wrote that God, had sworn in his wrath unto the brother of Jared, that whoso should possess this land of promise, from that time henceforth and forever, should serve him, the true and only God, or they should be swept off when the fulness of his wrath should come upon them.... Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by the things which we have written (Ether 2:8, 12). ' LESSON DEPARTMENT The knowledge given in this revelation was of inestimable value to the brother of Jared. And it is a power to modern Americans if we have the genius to use it. The promise is as valid today as it was at that time about forty-two centuries ago. In preparation for the voyage to the land of promise, the Lord instructed the leaders of this little group to build eight barges after the manner of those they had constructed in the wilderness. 'These barges were as long as a tree, were peaked on the ends, and were constructed in a manner to prevent the entrance of water when they should be submerged, for the Lord knew | the vessels would be immersed from time to time. To prevent the entrance of water they had to be airtight. When the vessels were finished, the brother of Jared inquired of the Lord concerning the manner in which air and light were to be supplied. In humble prayer to the Lord, he said: O Lord, in them there is no light; whither shall we steer? And also we shall perish, for in them we cannot breathe, save it be the air which is in them; therefore we shall perish (Ether 2:19). The brother of Jared was instructed: Behold, thou shalt make a hole in the top, and also in the bottom; and when thou shalt suffer for air thou shalt unstop the hole and receive air. And if it so be that the water come in upon thee, behold, ye shall stop the hole, that ye may not perish in the flood (Ether 2:20). In answer to Moriancumer's question, "Behold, O Lord, wilt thou 701 suffer that we shall cross this great water in darkness?" (Ether 2:22) the Lord, in turn, asked him a question, "What will ye that I should prepare for you that ye may have light, when ye are swallowed up in the depths of the sea?" Then, we are told, the brother of Jared as-— cended Mount Shelem, and molted out of a rock sixteen small, white stones, which were as clear as trans- - parent glass. Carrying them in his hands upon the top of the mountain, he presented them to the Lord, and cried: I know, O Lord, that thou hast all power, and can do whatsoever thou wilt for the benefit of man; therefore touch these stones, O Lord, with thy finger, and prepare them that they may shine forth in darkness; and they shall shine forth unto us in the vessels which we have prepared, that we may have light while we shall cross the sea (Ether 3:4). "The Lord stretched forth his hand and touched the stones one by one with his finger' (Ether 3:6). After the Lord had prepared the stones, the brother of Jared placed one in each end of the barges, and they gave light to the vessels. So great was the faith of the brother of Jared upon this occasion that the veil which separates the human from the divine was lifted from his eyes, and he beheld the finger of the Lord. Struck with fear, he fell down before the Lord. "Never has man come before me with such exceeding faith as thou hast;" said the Lord, "for were it not so ye could not have seen my finger" (Ether 3:9). Then it was that the brother of Jared asked the Lord to show himself unto him. After the brother of Jared declared, "I know that thou ~and™ my daughters. 702 speakest the truth, for thou art a God of truth and canst not lie," the Lord showed himself and said: Because thou knowest these things ye are redeemed from the fall; therefore ye are brought back into my presence. Behold, I am he who was prepared from the foundation of the world to redeem my people. Behold, I am Jesus Christ. I am the Father and the Son. In me Shall all mankind have light, and that eternally, even they who shall believe on my name; and they shall become my sons ___ 'And never have I shown myself unto man whom I have created, for never has man believed in me as thou hast. Seest thou that ye are created after mine own image? Yea, even all men were created in the beginning after mine own image. Behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; and man have I created after the body of my spirit; and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto my people in the flesh (Ether 3:13-16). Having prepared all manner of food for their sustenance on the voyage, and also food for their fowls and animals, they set forth from Moriancumer in the eight barges, commending themselves unto the Lord their God. Many times they were buried in the depths of the sea as the waves broke over them when tempests stirred. The turbulent water. For three hundred forty-four days they were driven forth upon the water by furious winds. And they did land upon the shore of the promised land. And when they had set their feet upon the shores of the promised land they bowed themselves down upon the face of the land, and did humble themselves before the Lord, and did shed tears of joy before the Lord, because of the multitude of his tender mercies over them.... And it came to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 pass that they began to spread upon the face of the land, and to multiply and to till the earth; and they did wax strong in the land (Ether 6:12, 18). At the height of their civilization "the whole face of the land northward was covered with inhabitants" (Ether 10:21). The nature of their civilization is explicitly given by Moroni, who writes that during the reign of Lib: They were exceedingly industrious, and they did buy and sell and traffic one with another, that they might get gain. And they did work in all manner of ore, and they did make gold, and silver, and iron, and brass, and all manner of metals; and they did dig it out of the earth; whierefore, they did cast up mighty heaps of earth to get ore, of gold, and of silver, and of iron and of copper. And they did work all manner of fine work. And they did have silks, and fine-twined linens; and they did work all manner of cloth, that they might clothe themselves from their nakedness. And they did make all manner of tools to till the earth... And they did make all manner of tools with which they did work their beasts. And they did make all manner of weapons of war. And they did work all manner of work of exceedingly curious workmanship. And never could be a people more blessed than they, and more prospered by the hand of the Lord (Ether 10:22-28). The promise made by the Lord to the brother of Jared, that he would raise up unto the seed of the members of this colony a great nation, so much so that there would be none greater, was literally fulfilled. In extent and in nature, it — was a civilization that looms large in the eyes of those who understand. Because of his faith and his steadfastness, the Lord blessed the brother of Jared and his posterity, despite the fact that wickedness ulti- LESSON DEPARTMENT mately brought about the decline and fall of the empire. Knowing that the time of his death was near, the brother of Jared encouraged Jared to call the people together to ask them what they most desired of them before they departed from this life. 'The people clamored for a king, and Orihah, son of Jared, was anointed king over the people. Soon after the establishment of this monarchial form of govern- 703 ment, "it came to pass that Jared died, and his brother also." Questions for Discussion 1. How does this lesson establish the fact that God rules the destiny of nations? 2. How can we help to keep America a land of freedom? 3. What does this lesson teach us of the personality of Jesus Christ (Ither 3:14; 4:7)? 4. What was the nature and extent of the Jaredite civilization? (siting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 4—"Look Unto God With Firmness of Mind, and Pray Unto Tim With Exceeding Faith, and He Will Console You in Your Afflictions " (Jacob 3:1). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, January 8, 1952 Objective: 'To remind us that God is ever willing to comfort us in trial. HERE are times in the life of every individual when he is in dire need of comfort, encouragement, or relief from mental or physical anguish. In the above quotation, a Book of Mormon prophet Jacob, tells us how we may receive consolation in our afflictions. Tlow wonderful it is to know that we have a sure source of comfort— someone to whom we can turn for | help with implicit trust. When we encounter trials our greatest consolation is received from God. He alone can ease the pain, can give us hope in the future, the courage to continue. No earthly power or influence is comparable. 'The words of the following song express the feeling of confidence we have in his help: I know my heav'nly Father knows The storms that would my way: oppose; But He can drive the clouds away, And turn my darkness into day. I know my heav'nly Father knows, The balm I need to soothe my woes, And with His touch of love divine, He heals this wounded soul of mine He knows, He knows, and tempers ev'ry wind that blows. Sometimes we look at certain of our friends who have recently undergone great sorrow, and we wonder at the serenity of spirit they possess. We marvel that they are able to bear up under the heavy blows that have befallen them. And then we realize that God has come to their aid. He it is who has given them support, cheered their hearts, made them equal to their afflictions. 704 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 We know that consolation and peace do come from our Heavenly Father; but they do not come without effort. Every gift and blessing from God is based upon obedience to law. There are certain prerequisites of worthiness to the receiving of any blessing. In this quotation we are told that the prerequisites are that we look to God with firmness of mind and that we pray unto him with exceeding faith. Firmness of mind implies steadfastness and strength, not wavering nor doubting, but confidence that our petition will be answered. Then, if we show sufficient faith, the heavens cannot be restrained from pouring out blessings upon us. The prophet Jacob does not promise us that our afflictions will vanish if we do these things. He promises only that we may be consoled in bearing them. We know it would not be good for us to have all our afflictions removed. Through them we grow in strength, in wisdom, in patience, and understanding. The Lord will comfort our troubled hearts. No matter how sore the trial, we may go to our Heavenly Father in humbleness of spirit and he will sustain us, he will console us in our afflictions. Work Tleeting—Sewing THe Art oF MENDING (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Knitted Goods Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, January 15, 1952 (Textbook: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot.) NITTED garments require a special method of mending and care. Snags or breaks stretch very easily to form holes and they run readily. And mended as soon as discovered and while still small. Mends in knit wear should be done with matching yarn. If unable to buy a similar skein, ravel out a pocket or some other part of the garment that you can do without.: To keep a simple break in the knitting from growing, catch each These should be caught — loop with a needle and matching thread. Tie off threads securely on the wrong side. In this type. Of garment mend holes with a knit stitch which matches better and has more "give." Proper use and care can eliminate much of your stocking mending. Educate children and adults alike to put on hosiery correctly. Both long and short hose should be rolled down to the toe and drawn on easily to avoid tearing and snagging. (See Relief Society Magazine, May 1949, "Handle LESSON DEPARTMENT With Gloves," by Ivie H. Jones.) It is economical to buy always two or more pairs of matching hose so that good ones can be mated when worn out ones are discarded. When mends or darns become necessary, be sure they are done in matching thread that is of the same weight as the hose. If darning cotton is not available in proper shades, use colored embroidery thread. Save old nylon hose and ravel out threads to use for catching snags and runs in other nylons. The nylon thread will be stronger and much less conspicuous than darning thread. When darning holes in socks, make as small and as neat a darn as possible. Leave the hole in the round shape it took as it developed but snip away ragged edges. Do not knot thread but weave ends in, working on the right side. Work with small stitches back and forth across the hole, evenly, and far enough into the fabric to strengthen weak spots. Darn in one direction, then the other, weaving in and out regularly. Fill in lengthwise threads first., Use only as many strands of the thread as you need to match the weight of the stocking. This will insure longer wear and more comfort in wearing. Examine all hose carefully after laundering and reinforce thin and weak spots, before they break into holes, with small running stitches parallel to the weave. Mend split seams with a very fine over and over stitch in a single thread. When mending girdles or any elastic goods, take care not to put 705 your needle through any rubber threads for it will cut them. Catch the end of each rubber thread that has pulled out and wrap it securely with heavy-duty mercerized thread so that it will hold, and then darn it down into the seam or fabric where it pulled out. Do not stitch elastic webbing on the machine. Sew twill tape or satin fabric as a reinforcement on the underside of seams. When sewing on elastic fabric use the catch stitch as it holds better and has more "give." The catch stitch, unlike most stitching is worked from left to right. In this stitch the threads cross each other on the wrong side. With the needle held parallel to the raw edge, or edge to be sewed in place, take a stitch below the edge. Take the next stitch above the edge with the needle in the same position, about one-eighth to one-fourth inch from and to the right of the first stitch. Take the next stitch below the edge and continue alternating the stitches above and below the edge. Replace lifeless rubber on garters with new elastic of the correct width. Make all repairs on worn places as soon as they appear. Split seams on gloves are mended in the manner of the original stitching—in whip stitch or running stitch. Start stitching without a knot, securing ends of stitching carefully and concealing all thread ends inside the glove. On lapped seams, if there is not enough for a seam, make close blanket stitches along both edges of ripped seam. Draw the edges together by overhanding through the blanket stitches. of iterature—The Literature of England Lesson 20—Robert Burns (1759-1796) Elder Briant S. Jacobs For 'Tuesday, January 22, 1952 Or all the poets of the Western World, few have been loved more warmly than Robert Burns. And since love for any man cannot be suggested or dictated but must flow which themselves have been deeply moved, it is then apparent that the rich love which generations have expressed for Burns has been only a returning to him of the throbbing love for humankind which his writings first gave to them. At least once a year most adult, English-speaking people join together to recreate for a moment Burns' essential spirit as they sing "Auld Lang Syne.". Many are unaware of what the words of the title mean (strictly, "Old Long Since") nor do they know who first conceived them. But it makes no difference, for the spirit of Burns and human comraderie is in the first line which everyone seems to know so well that apparently it enjoys a permanent place in the hearts of men. Nor is such a remembrance unfair to Burns' genius, for in this simple lyric, as throughout all his lines, the music of his poetical singing has a sweetness of pure inner melody, a clean, penetrating style, and a power to stir the common, but commonly dormant, emotions. Save for Whitman and Lincoln and Ernie Pyle, few writers other than Burns have identified themselves more overwhelmingly with the feelings of the common people and have expressed Page 706 spontaneously from hearts — A Perry Picture Copyright 1901 ROBERT BURNS 1759 - 1796 those feelings with greater power. In Burns there is almost a fierce integrity between his life and his poetry. So intensely did he love the basic life of the soil and champion its: simple virtues, and so viciously did he condemn what: for him were the supreme vices—hypocrisy and self-righteousness—that he wrote only what he was; and what he was and knew, his poems became. This is one of the great sources of his literary power. Therefore, it is both fitting and necessary LESSON DEPARTMENT that we review some details of his life., In 1759 Robert Burns was born in Ayrshire in the Scottish Lowlands, the first of seven children. His father was a peasant farmer who moved his family from one tenant farm to the next, hoping always to find somewhere else a situation in which he might combat more successfully the problems of exorbitant rents and bleak soil. As was the customary practice in winning the battle for survival, Burns' father worked himself and his sons at - scythe and flail, mattock and plow, during every precious daylight hour. Burns later spoke of almost the first half of his life as a period filled with the "gloom and toil of a galleyslave." | | Although he went to school at Kirkoswald for but a brief period, he was not an uneducated man. His father was a lover of books and encouraged Burns to read widely, which he did with increasing enjoyment. He knew and loved the great English writers—Shakespeare, Milton, Pope, and Dryden—and was at home with the poets and novelists of his own day. He read deeply in such diverse fields as_ theology, philosophy, and agriculture. He wrote good English prose, and read French fluently. But what he knew best and loved most were the many Scottish ballads and songs which had been hummed and whistled and sung constantly by those about him. When he discovered the works of his fellow Scotch poets, Allan Ramsay and Robert Fergusson, Burns thrilled to see the essence of the Scot spirit recorded in permanent form. He dreamed of adding _ 707 his own poems to this tradition, and of collecting the many rich folk songs which otherwise would soon be lost. When he was twenty-two, Burns escaped from the farm drudgery to become a flax-dresser in the town of | Irvine. Here he learned to enjoy himself among other laborers who, poor and overworked, found Burns delightful for his endless store of folk-humor and songs, his creative wit, and for his strong conviction that, despite their having neither money, formal education, "good breeding," nor security from one | day's end to the next, he and his companions were honorable, good men. He saw and praised in the common folk the virtues of tolerance, friendliness, courage, sympathy, and sturdy manliness, which are the true distinctions of character and of Scotland—virtues which cannot be bought or bestowed. In the town he also pitied the outcasts and lower. Classes, and opposed the smug condemnations of the selfstyled "best families" who harbored within themselves so many unconfessed sins while condemning the weaknesses evident in others. When his father died, Burns went back to the life of a farmer, but soon became even more discouraged than before. In despair, Burns planned to sail to Jamaica to begin life anew, but the great success of his first published book of poems, in 1786, changed his mind. The elite of Edinburgh wined him and dined him as a living proof of the growing romantic idea that civilization was responsible for the evil in man, and that untamed nature alone could produce genius and origin- 708 ality. Somewhat like Omai, the savage from the South Seas who was brought back to London, in 1774, by Captain Cook's expedition, Burns was an object of curiosity; but once the novelty wore off, his elegant hosts no longer concealed their belief that he was also rather crude and rough, and in some bitterness Burns returned to his home district. Never before having been more than ten miles from his home, Burns found his taste for travel whetted, and he toured the Highlands, then returned to marry Jean Armour and become collector of excise duty for the region around Dumfries. During his later years he knew for a time such a home as he described in "The Cotter's Saturday Night," continued his writings (including some of his best lyrical song-poems), and collected folkballads. While he continued to enjoy many friendships, his last years were characterized by bitterness and dissension, caused, at least in part, by his enthusiasm for the rebellious principles of the French Revolution, and by his stout defense of the natural goodness of man as opposed to the dour Calvinistic beliefs of Scotch Presbyterianism, which insisted that man was by nature evil, dominated by the spirit of the devil, and, with few exceptions, doomed to roast amidst the brimstone fires of hell. He died in 1796 at the age of thirty-seven. During his own lifetime and for years afterward, Burns was vilified and condemned by those "unco guid". Of his contemporaries who could remember him only for his sins, which they so enlarged upon fiery RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 that they would have him appear only as lazy, a poor manager, and a man of lax morals who drank himself to death. Modern research points to his death as a result of heart disease and that while he did drink with friends and had often been drunk, he was not an alcoholic; and that his love affairs came about after sincere courtships whose flavor we can share from such poems as "A Red, Red Rose" (page 109), "Bonie Doon," "Ae Fond Kiss" (page 107), "John Anderson, My Jo," ~Sweet Afton" (page 102), and "Mary Morison" (page 85). As for his "radical" economic, social, and political views, the core of his convictions on these crucial issues also served as core to the founding fathers of our nation, for during this same period they also revolted against convention and the world by building a new way of life on these same dissenting principles. While in no way approving the faults which Burns had, many have found in his lines so much that is good and praiseworthy that they have forgotten to emphasize his faults, so really and movingly did he speak to them. Robert Burns, perhaps the most love poet in our language, loved as well those other emotions and ideals which previously we have defined as comprising romanticism. First of all, Burns is the poet of emotion, surpassing even Byron in the condensed intensity of his impassioned lyrics. Aside from his satires, "The Jolly Beggars" and "Holy Willie's Prayer" (text, pp. 88-95), there is scarcely one intellectual idea in all his works, and even these satires have their under- LESSON DEPARTMENT lying ideas expressed in some of the most powerfully emotional lines he ever wrote. 'To prove for yourself Burns' genius at using precisely the right word or image to evoke the strongest response, read aloud until your pulse quickens and your responsive emotions are warmed. Should this not happen almost at once, you are not approaching the poem in the spirit in which it was written, and until you give yourself to the poem and bring your share of emotion and power and life to its reading, it never can come alive for you. His love poems are so well known, and appeal to so familiar an emotion that they hardly deserve comment as being the personification of one aspect of romantic spirit. One source of their great beauty and universal appeal lies in their simple manner and tone, but expressive of so vast a sincerity and so complete a devotion that none can honestly doubt the reality and fervor of his love. As, for example: A RED, RED ROSE O, my luve is like a red, red rose, That's newly sprung in June. O, my luve is like the melodie, That's sweetly played in tune. As fair art thou, my bonie lass, So deep in luve am I, And I will luve thee still, my dear, Till a' the seas gang dry. Till a' the seas gang dry, my dear, And the rocks melt wi' the sun! And I will luve thee still, my dear, While the sands o' life shall run. And fare thee weel, my only luve, And fare thee weel a while! And I will come again, my luve, Tho' it were ten thousand mile! (text, pages 109-110) 709 The great esteem he felt for other common men like himself is strongly felt in "To Davie" (page 85), "Epistle to J. Lapraik" (page 86), "Auld Lang Syne" (page 102), and "A Man's a Man for a' That" (page 110). The warmth of family ties established and maintained upon the enduring foundations of love and religion are idealized immortally in "The Cotter's Saturday Night" | (page 95). In "A Man's a Man for a' 'That" and "Scots, Wha Hae" (page 109), he rebels against social, political, and economic injustice, while his "Holy Willie's Prayer" (page 88) and "Address to the Deil" (devil) oppose a church which breeds self-righteousness and which defines man as being evil and almost certain of eternal punishment in hell. His love of nature is so much a part of him that it oozes out between all his words, but its affectionate tenderness is particularly strong in "To a Mouse" (page 98), "To a Mountain Daisy" (page 100), and ""To a Louse" (page 101). The romantic love of terror and the supernatural is delightfully present in "Tam O'Shanter" (page 104). His sparkling eye and sometimes subdued chuckle are everywhere present except in his love poems; and in one supposed love poem, "Duncan Gray" (page 108), he combines laughter with love to form the flavor of playful satire. Note to Class Leaders: One preliminary difficulty in reading Burns must be mentioned. The best of Burns cannot be translated, not even into English. He is completely himself only when "crackin" with such evident relish in his native Scotch; if the individual 710 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 words are changed, or stumbled over in the reading, the sharp, warming tang of Burns is lost and his lines are as lead. In a sense, then, you must earn anything approaching a full, true reading of Burns by first becoming so familiar with his vocabulary that it comes tnppingly to your tongue as you read. Only then may his poems be read (and read many of them to your group) with the "spark ~o' nature's fire' which wrote them. If finally you do not come to know a poem throughout, and enjoy it, don't read it as a part of your lesson. But if you do understand it and feel your imagination quickened by it, let your voice become mellow and full with that liking as you read, and the hearts of your listeners will ' be mellowed and enriched as well. A functioning procedure might be to read the background and selections in the text (pp. 9, 83-110), and then select for reading aloud to your class those poems which you like most, and which will best present those points you would like to emphasize. Perhaps this is the lesson which would profit most from providing class members with a copy of the poems to be read, with meanings of the difficult words either written in parentheses after the word or in a footnote at the bottom of the page. Suggestions for Music "Auld Lang Syne" "Flow Gently, Sweet Afton" -Duet—"O, Wert Thou in the Cauld Blast"; "I Would That My Love' (Music by Mendelssohn). Questions for Discussion 1. Why has Burns always been a favorite poet of the common people? 2. Why was Burns at one time the toast of Edinburgh society? 3. Why are his love lyrics so memorable? 4. Point out elements of romanticism in Burns' poems. Social Sctence—The Progress of Man Part 2—From Darkness Into Dawn Lesson 10—The Religious Reformation Elder Archibald F. Bennett (Text: The Progress of Man, by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, chapters 18 and 19.) For Tuesday, January 29, 1952 Objective: To delineate how, from the depths of ignorance and superstition, courageous reformers led the peoples of Europe to partial religious liberty, and individual freedom of thought and action. False Ecclesiastical Power, DURING the period spoken of as the "Dark Ages" Satan had bound the souls of men in the depths of ignorance and superstition. There is no darkness so black and heavy as. Spiritual darkness. Such darkness comes through the transgression of divine law. The awful condition of superstition and lack of the knowledge of God, which covered the earth for so many centuries after the passing of the apostles, was encouraged and guided by those who professed to be representatives of the Son of God upon the earth. 'There had arisen an ecclesiastical power which LESSON DEPARTMENT controlled kingdoms and principallities, restricting by severe and painful edicts individual nghts of religious worship. 'This ecclesiastical power had endeavored to set the bounds of individual thinking within the narrow limits of its creed. It pried into the sacred and private relationships of the home. It decreed how and when a man should pray. It punished many who defied its power. No king was safe upon his throne without its sanction and approval. By the Dictatus of Pope Gregory VII it was declared that the church, "has never erred, nor will it err to all eternity," therefore all its edicts were to be obeyed, and it reserved the right to annul all other contracts, vows, and obligations. Such was the dominion exercised by this power over nations as well as over the souls of men. Beginning of the "Reformation" During the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries many things happened to cause the people to question the absolute power and divine authority of the church of Rome. The spirit of independent thinking had come among the people. This spirit continued to increase until it gained flood-tide in the sixteenth century, and brought to pass a rupture in the existing church which led nearly half of the people of Europe from its jurisdiction. One of the leading causes of this disruption was the existence of scandalous acts on the part of the church and its ministers. The selling of "indulgences" in a shameful manner with the promise of absolving men from sin was another. Moreover, kings and rulers were glad to break the yoke which bound them, and 711 this led some of them to give aid to the brave but rebellious men who defied the great ecclesiastical power. In the fourteenth century there came what is called the Great Schism, the church was again divided and two presiding heads were chosen, one with headquarters in Rome and one at Avignon in France. Later the attempt was made to depose both of these ecclesiastical rulers and make a third; and for a time there were three Popes, each claiming authority! This condition prevailed for some forty years. The squabbling and contentions among these church heads gave to the Protestant forces a power which they could not have had under other circumstances. It also had the effect of making many of the people dissatisfied, and so this schism became one of the important factors in bringing to pass the revolution in religion. Leading Early Reformers John Wycliffe: Wycliffe was born in England in 1320. He has been called "The Morning Star of the Reformation." He graduated from Oxford and then became professor in that university. He was a priest and a notable preacher and writer. Early in his life he began to doubt some of the doctrines of the Catholic church. He was a brave man and openly advocated his principles. The schism gave Wycliffe additional argument and power in his contention against the Popes. Through his zeal and knowledge he gathered many followers who were known by their enemies as Lollards, or "babblers." Wycliffe gave to the people a translation of the Bible in 712 English which was widely read. He died in 1384, after having passed through a most eventful and stormy life. John Huss: After the death of Wycliffe his work was continued by John Huss in Bohemia. He never met Wycliffe but had translations of his writings. Huss was also a teacher and a preacher. He declared that no man on earth had power to forgive sins, and he taught the people to search the scriptures for the words of eternal life. Through his activity he converted thousands of his countrymen. He was summoned to a church council at Constance, was condemned for heresy and, in July 1415, was burned at the stake. The spirit which Wycliffe and Huss had given to the movement of reform went on; it could not be stopped. Martin Luther: The foremost figure among the reformers was Martin Luther, an Augustine monk and teacher in the University of Wittenberg, Germany. He was born in Saxony, in 1483, of humble parentage. Amidst the struggle which poverty imposed upon him, but with a determined will, he rose to be renowned as a scholar long before his rebelliqgn against Rome. His study and reflections while in the service of the Catholic church awakened in his mind many grave doubts, and he was led to question many of the doctrines of the church. He gradually reached the conclusion that the system of penance and forgiveness of sins through indulgences was wrong, and that forgiveness of sins was due to humility and faith in God, and could not be procured by a pardon obtained through the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 paying of sums of money. The activity and doctrine of Tetzel (in selling indulgences) were challenged by Luther, who wrote out ninetyfive theses, or statements, which he posted on the door of Wittenberg church, inviting anyone interested to engage in a discussion of the subject of indulgences with him. 'These statements, written in Latin, were soon copied and printed and circulated all over Europe. Copies came into the hands of the ecclesiastical rulers in Rome. The result of this was that the Pope issued a papal bull against Luther. By this time all Europe had become aroused over the controversy, and many of the people of Northern Europe sympathized with Luther in spirit. His writings were condemned by the church as being heretical and all people were warned against him. Luther showed his contempt for the summons by burning the papal bull in public, amidst the shouts of the populace. Luther was summoned to appear before the Diet of Worms, an assembly of princes, nobles, and clergy of Germany. Before this august body Luther steadfastly refused to recant unless the teachings he had promulgated were shown to be in conflict with the Bible. In confusion, and without accomplishing its purpose of compelling Luther to recant, the diet came to an end, declaring Luther to be a heretic and worthy of excommunication. In seclusion, Luther undertook the translation of the Bible into German. Later he and Melanchthon drew up a confession of faith stating the doctrines of the Protestants and their reasons for withdrawing from the church of Rome. LESSON DEPARTMENT The Reformation in England In England the break from the church of Rome came about in a peculiar way. Henry VIII desired to be rid of his wife, Catherine of Aragon. The decision of the Pope was adverse to Henry. There naturally came-a breach between the English Government and_ the church of Rome. The early reformers in England had prepared the way so that many of the people were ready to leave the church of Rome when the opportunity came. A Parliament was called, composed of puppets ready to do the king's will. At the request of the king, acts were passed declaring Henry to be the "only supreme head on earth of the Church of England." Thus the Church of England came into existence. At the request of the king hundreds of monasteries in England were dissolved and _ their wealth confiscated. After a short return to Catholicism under Mary, Elizabeth came to the throne in 1558 and reigned until 1602, and during these years Protestantism became firmly established in Great Britain. The Reformation in Other Lands Ulrich Zwingli: In Switzerland, Ulrich Zwingli, born in 1484, attacked many of the doctrines of the prevailing creed. He declared that the Bible was the only guide to religious beliefs. He opposed the sale of indulgences and drove those who advocated them from Zurich. In 1531 his followers were attacked and, in the battle, Zwingli was killed and his body burned, but the work which he commenced went on. 713 John Calvin: In Geneva, Switzerland, John Calvin, a Frenchman, with great effect carried on the work of rebellion against the church of Rome. He maintained that all should be equal, and that the church should be governed by the elders, so out of this doctrine came the Presbyterian Church, or the church of the elders. John Knox: In Scotland, John Knox, who was a disciple of Calvin, carried on the work of the "reformation." The Scotch Covenanters and also the Puritans were followers of Calvin. The Pilgrim Fathers took with them to New England the Calvinistic creed, and, also, its intolerance. The Protestant revolution spread into all the Teutonic lands—norther Germany, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Scandinavia, England, and Scotland. -In Celtic Ireland, France, Spain, and Italy it did not meet with much success. 'The Latin nations in the main remained loyal to Rome. One great weakness among the reformers was the fact that they could not agree on doctrine and church government among themselves. 'This naturally led to the formation of numerous sects and much contention detrimental to the cause of truth and righteousness. Benefits of the "Reformation" Through the revolutionary activities of Martin Luther and all the other reformers, religious liberty was again brought back at least in part, and bestowed upon mankind. The Bible was introduced into the homes of the common people and thus the privilege was ex- 714 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 tended to them to read the scriptures in their native languages. In time, governments which had been despotic lost much of their power and the rights of the people were gradually increased and maintained. Intellectual progress was also made. These changes were not confined to the Protestants, for the Catholics were convinced of the benefits of many of the lessons which they had been taught through the Protestant rebellion and so it resulted in reforms for them. Limitations of the Reformers While Martin Luther and all others who took a stand for religious freedom were aided by the Spirit of the Lord, or light of truth, they were without the divine aid of the Holy Ghost, which had been lost through apostasy in earlier times. None of these revolutionaries claimed that he had received divine authority from on high. They reached the conclusion that divine authority was something which any man could assume who had such a desire. The time for the full restoration of the gospel had not come in that | day. These noble men, who were God-fearing and sincere, were sent to prepare the way. 'They were forerunners sent of the Lord to mark the path which freedom and religious liberty could travel. Eventually the goal they were seeking would be found in the Western World—at a time when the Lord should send forth his power from the heavens and restore it upon the earth in the dispensation of the fulness of times. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Give reasons for concluding that the reform leaders '"'were forerunners sent of the Lord to mark the path which freedom and religious liberty could travel." 2. Explain the part that. Wycliffe, Huss, and Luther had in bringing about the religious reformation. 3. Describe the work of Zwingli, Calvin, and Knox as religious reformers. 4. What accomplishments of the Protestant reformers helped to prepare the way for the restoration of the true gospel? 5-, What mistakes did the reformers make on the subject of divine authority? (Compare Paul's statement in Hebrews 5:4.) 6. Have someone prepare beforehand and report briefly on the enmity, strife, executions, and warfare which resulted from clashes among the Protestants themselves. 7. What governmental aid did the reform movement receive in England? Show that there it was first a revolt against the church of Rome, then a reform within the Church of England itself. — INlo nument Mabel Law Atkinson No monument of stone Will ever laud my name; And I shall come and go my way unknown To halls or books of fame; ~ Yet I shall be content If when my day is done And night comes on, I leave this monument: A clean and valiant son. 2 emic—Funslamentals of Musicianship APPRECIATION, CONDUCTING, SINGING, AND ACCOMPANYING Lessons for Union Meetings for 1951-52 Lesson 12—Review of the Four-four (4/4) Baton Pattern; Part Singing; the Resourceful Accompanist; Song Material Florence Jepperson Madsen Objective: To further establish the 4/4 baton pattern; to train groups in_partsinging; to help the accompanist realize her possibilities and responsibilities; to add new songs to the repertoire. Review the Four-four (4/4) Baton Pattern (a) Choose and conduct two hymns in this rhythm, applying the directions given in the previous lesson. (b) Select two songs or anthems in 4/4 thythm in which the three sizes of baton pattern can be applied.—such as, "Peace I Leave With You," by Roberts, or, "The Lost Chord," by Sullivan. Dividing the Congregation for Part-Singing (a) It is not a good practice to divide the audience into sections for part-singing without considering the types and range of voices to be found within that section. 1. Sopranos should not be expected to sing the alto part which is too low for them. 2. Altos should not be asked to sing the soprano part which is too high for their voices. (b) On practice days, the conductor might ask the sisters to sing the parts that best suit their voices, just as they are seated in the audience; or, ask that on these days the sopranos sit in a certain place to the left of the conductor, and that the altos sit together on the right side. If there are second sopranos they will sit in the center of these groups. (c) When just two parts, soprano and alto, are to be sung, the second sopranos may sing either of these parts which is best adapted to their voices, and they may sit near that group. (d) It should be comparatively easy to have part-singing in a Relief Society congregation. 'There are generally enough Singing Mothers present to form a nucleus of singers and to help sustain each part. (e) To begin this type of singing, choose one of the following hymns, written in three-parts, and teach it to the group: "We Ever Pray for Thee," or "Rock of Ages," page 382 in (New) Hymns. The Resourceful Accompanist (a) The accompanist should be given the copies of music far enough in advance of a rehearsal to enable her to practice and become familiar with them. Besides learning the accompaniment, she should at all times be prepared to play the separate vocal parts with assurance and _accuracy. (b) The accompanist, if rhythmical by nature or by training and experience, is a great strength to the conductor and to a singing group. She can suggest and emphasize correct rhythms and tempos; right accents within the rhythms; indicate the proper volumes to be applied, and also the logical phrasing to be observed in the text. This implies that she has studied the words and is familiar with the punctuation marks in the song. Page 715 716 Song Material Sacred (Three-part, S. S. A.) My Soul Is Athirst for God That Sweet Story of Old It Was for Me How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings Song of Rejoicing Thou Wilt Keep Him in Perfect Peace Secular (Three-part, S. S. A.) Calm Be Thy Sleep In the Valley at Home Serenade Grandfather's Clock Winds o' the Westland Come Along and Dance One World Reverie Sacred ('Two-part, S. A.) The Birthday of a King (Christmas ) By Babylon's Waters Come We That Love the Lord The Good Shepherd Secular (Two-part) A Winter's Lullaby God Bless Our Home | One World Into the. Night RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1951 Composer Stickles West Blount Smart Mendelssohn-Barton West Composer Cain Howard-Treharne Toselli-Treharne Trinkaus Parks Pennington O'Hara-Bratton Debussy Composer Neidlinger Smart Barnes Barn Composer Dekoven Hamblen O' Hara Edwards Publisher Schroeder & Gunther Summy Witmark Presser Summy Publisher Gamble-Hinged Co. Boston Music Co. Boston Music Co. Carl Fischer J. A. Parks Co. Carl Fischer Bourne, Inc. Boston Music Publisher G. Schirmer G. Schirmer. Willis G. Schirmer Publisher G. Schirmer Belwin Bourne, Inc. G. Schirmer The music listed above may be obtained at the following Salt Lake City, Utah, stores: Beesley Music Company, 70 South Main Street Daynes Music Company, 47 South Main Street Glen Brothers Music Company, 74 South Main Street Summerhays Music Company, 21 East First South. << i rles Evelyn Wooster Viner Anniversaries are set apart Within the archives of the heart; Clear written on the mind's bright stone Glow memories, which, for us alone, Are mellowed treasure still as dear As in that first remembered year. Mirror, Mirror (Continued from page 670) "No, not really," she said. Quickly she handed him his crutches and helped him up. As they went into the living room together, Julie caught sight of herself in the mantel mirror. The girl in the red Mandarin jacket limped, yes, so that the gold earrings swung like pendulums upon her bright cheeks, only now the limp was a banner for her small son. "Hello everybody," she said gaily, "we're here at last. Crutches are slow, but he'll be walking without them soon." "Wonderful," said Joe, "Phil was telling us." "Of course," Julie continued casually, "the doctors say he'll always limp, but in a man it's quite distinguished, don't you think?" And although there was not a sound in the room except the crackling fire, Julie could hear the clear, beautiful laughter of their applause. Every Step of the Way (Continued from page 662) on her professional smile and said, "You have a lovely, dark-haired son. Do you want to see him now?" Martha couldn't answer, but the nurse understood what her eyes said. She went out and returned with a small, soft bundle which she laid in Martha's arms. Martha looked down. Ronnie! Ronnie's forehead and mouth and dark hair tumbled into a soft little curl. Martha's eyes drank their fill and her heart, too, was full. 717 BUNNY /Gimuisrvns Music for Relief Society Choruses NTNU LLYN SSATTTDALTTDAAT EAAAL GAAAG BAAAL BAAML BAAML BAAKL BBAML LAME LAMA LAL 1 a Birthday of a King—Neidlinger...15 _—— Carol of the Bells—Wilhousky.20 -. Christmas Day—Strimer _.16 a Christmas is Coming—Milkey.22 os Christmas Song—Adam.16 — Hear the Bells—Frank _.22 ard Innkeeper's Carol—Warner _.22.. I Wonder As I Wander—Niles.18 — O Holy Night—Adam ___ 15 -_. Silent Night—Epperson __.12 Music Sent On Approval WE PAY POSTAGE Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated | i above. [] On Approval o Charge [] Money Enclosed D aunes 43-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UT AN 718 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos KNABE The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built a ee - All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH No Attachments "with the ANKER ZIG-ZAG For the name and address of your ~ nearest Anker dealer phone or write WILLIAMS Sewing Machine Co. 50 So. Main, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone 5-8651 SPECIAL DISCOUNTS FoR CHURCH ORGANIZATIONS RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 195] At last she looked up at the nurse. "How did I get here?" she asked, wonderingly, remembering the night and all its terrors, and half recalling arms lifting her, her pain, and blinding lights. The nurse smiled. "You must have signaled with your flashlight. They found it burned out beside the car. You happened to be just opposite the Strang ranch. The men were doing the evening chores, and Mr. Strang, seeing the light waved in a circle and then gone, thought something must be wrong. He investigated, and found you, unconscious, behind the wheel of your car. He brought you here." Martha turned her eyes to Ronnie's picture. "Some silly Boy Scout trick," she murmured. "Oh, Ronnie, forgive me, darling, for ever doubting that you would keep your word. You were with me—every step of the way!" She pressed her lips to the baby's soft hair. "And we'll tell him so, won't we, Son? On _ some safe, not too distant night?" —— Wood Shrush Margaret B. Shomaker From cool green shadows of the woodland Comes a song, mature and bright. It rises from the very ground Then skyward wends in flight. Flute-like spray of sparkling stars Rippling over brook and fern; Our lonely hearts will grasp the stars And cup their sweet return. We search for tones we long to hear; Tiny bird among tree-eaves, A flash, and brown wings disappear, To blend with fallen leaves.. Through This Door (Continued from page 689) books, but people like myself who had found the reason for the curious hunger in themselves, the ceaseless gnawing to make their lives count for something. Oh, not that I would ever come near to the hem of their garments for greatness. It was only that in my sphere, in the place where I was, I had to reach out and become as great as I could. "Mary Ruth, you are so quiet tonight," Mrs. Marriott said. I blushed and looked up to find Chris Jordan's bright black ae proline my face. "Tm not quiet inside," I said, and felt my face go redder still, and wished more furiously than ever that the bright silver polish on my nails were gone. After dinner was over and we had said goodbye, Tom wanted to go down to the Purple Pigeon. "T've had too much long hair," he growled. But I couldn't go. I couldn't bear to have the juke box, the greasy smell of frying things, cover the hours that lay behind me. "You've fallen in love with him!' Tom Mack bellowed, outraged. "No," I said, which was true. It was Tom I loved, 'Tom, the dear, the familiar, the part of all the springtime, the kind and the blundering. It was 'Tom I loved. But tonight a new way of life had lifted | its curtains for me. (To be continued ) 719 Sound Investment Franklin said, "AN INVESTMENT IN KNOWLEDGE ALWAYS PAYS THE BEST INTEREST." An investment in training at the L. D. S. Business College will bring you the practical know-how so necessary in gaining a good position in today's business world. ENROLL NOW — — Day and evening classes available in: @ SHORTHAND @ ACCOUNTING @ BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION / @ SECRETARIAL and a variety of other business subjects. Write or call for further information at |, 1) BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PRESERVE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINES Have the valuable information contained therein readily available for easy access permanently bound. Thee Deseret News Press 40 Richards Street Salt Lake City 1, Utah Srom Near and Sar Norma Wrathall, American Fork, Utah, an author well-known to readers of the Magazine, lovingly dedicates her article in this issue, '""Mother's Cookbook" to her mother, Mrs. Maggie W. Anderson of -Grantsville, Utah. Everything that has been said about The Relief Society Magazine is really true. I surely enjoy reading it. I love the poetry and also the editorial page very much. I also enjoy the pictures and lives of our leaders of this great Church. The pictures of Relief Society workers in "Notes From the Field" are particularly appealing to me, and I like to see the lovely handwork they are making. —Mrs. Irene O. Clawson Hyrum, Utah The Magazine is a great source of satisfaction to me as a ""WAVE," and I look forward to receiving it every month. I read it from cover to cover and enjoy every bit of it, especially the short stories. After I have finished with it, I pass it on to any of the other "WAVES" in the bartacks, and even to some of the patients in the wards. —Verla Ashby U. S. Naval Reserve Oakland, California I surely do enjoy the Magazine, the stories and the poems, and most of all, the lessons. I was baptized into the Church last January. —Clara Willis Oregon City, Oregon I hope my subscription can be renewed with the August issue, as I am stake theology leader and need the lesson material. Even if I didn't need the Magazine to prepare my lessons, I wouldn't want to miss a single issue of this inspiring little Magazine. I feel that I need the spiritual uplift as well as the pleasure that it brings into our home. —Doris Coleman Heybum, Idaho Page 720 In the August issue of the Magazine, Helen H. Jones ("Oven Solace") mentions a fudge-mashed potatoes cake which she makes. Would it be possible to get her recipe? —Lettv A. Patterson St. Johns, Anzona I would like to tell you how much I enjoy and appreciate The Relief Society Magazine. The articles, stories, poems, and the wonderful lessons—they are certainly inspirational, and thanks to all of you who make it possible for us to have such a lovely Magazine. —Nora Blalock Liberty, Mississippi I just want to thank you for the very inspiring and helpful Magazine you publish each month. It is really a faith promoter and testimony builder. I enjoy each - and every issue. Everything in it is clean and wholesome. The lessons are masterpieces. Thank you very much for all this light and enjoyment. —Mary Y. Stokes Layton, Utah I am not a Latter-day Saint, but a very dear friend of mine who is, loaned me several copies of The Relief Society Magazine, and I find them so very interesting and educational that I would like to become a subscriber, too. Please allow me to speak a few words in behalf of the Latter-day Saint people. Ever since my first visit to Utah several years ago I have been impressed by the friendliness of these fine folks and their ability to make newcomers feel at home. I was also impressed by the beautiful handicrafts of the women. Their quilts, rugs, and laces are something I shall never forget. —Mrs. William T. Peister Sacramento, California I want to tell you how much I enjoy the Magazine. It is really wonderful. I like the stories especially well. —Beth Gertsch, Paris, Idaho HIESE great texts and visual aids— For your Relief Society Courses of Study 1951-1952 THEOLOGY: THE BOOK OF MORMON Missionary edition $1.00 0.000.0.00.2..$1.25 by mail Library edition _ 00000000000.0000200cceee eee $2.00 Large type edition _ $3.00 THE GEORGE REYNOLDS BOOK OF MORMON CHART. A graphic, chronological chart of all Book of Mormon events, synchronized with events of ancient history of Greece, Rome—Assyria, Persia—; featuring eacn historian, the major peoples: Nephites, Lamanites, Mulekites, Gadianton Robbers; complete legend, giving the Book of Mormon in headlines. 16" x 74" in 5 colors. Published originally in 1898 by George Reynolds; reissued in 193] and 1951. $3.00. The best Book of Mormon visual aid yet produced. SOCIAL SCIENCE: THE PROGRESS OF MAN 00. 20 $2.50 by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith LITERATURE: THE LITERATURE OF ENGLAND Volume 2 ooo. Ee ecco eee ae OOO * By mail. I *These are the correct prices. The old prices were quoted in July All prices are subject to change without notice Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers A FRIEND IN NEED it looks like Kathy needs some help and mommie is close by to give it. _ Daddy is close by too every month the mailman delivers a check from him via the Beneficial Life. Le Because of her daddy's foresight and thoughtfulness, Kathy's childhood days will be blessed with her mother's time and loving gare. %, Wy, %,, Be ed aeenoeeveintn is a BENEFICIAL LIFE INSWRANCE eB Ge ~ COMPANY David 0. McKay, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah 
