THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD

Belle S. Spafford - President
Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor
Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Leone G. Layton
Lillie C. Adams
Christine H. Robinson
Mary G. Judd
Blanche B. Stoddard
Louise W. Madsen
Alberta H. Christensen
Anna B. Hart
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Nellie W. Neal
Edith S. Elliott
Leone O. Jacobs
Josie B. Bay
Mildred B. Eyring
Florence J. Madsen
Mary J. Wilson
Alta J. Vance
Helen W. Anderson

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor - Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor - Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager - Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 38 MARCH 1951 No. 3

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES

Highlights of the Past by Amy Brown Lyman 148
The Prophet Joseph Smith by M. Isabella Horne 158
The American National Red Cross 169

FICTION

She Shall Have Music — Third Prize Story by Frances Carter Yost 153
The Sewing Kit Speaks by Lillian S. Feltman 162
Growing Pains by Dorothy Clapp Robinson 182
For the Strength of the Hills — Chapter 2 by Mabel Harmer 192
Anniversary Aims by Mildred R. Stutz 199

GENERAL FEATURES

Sixty Years Ago 170
Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 171
Editorial: "Now, Let Us Rejoice" by Vesta P. Crawford 172
Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue 173
Notes to the Field: Organizations and Reorganizations of Mission and Stake Relief Societies 174
Notes from the Field: Bazaars, Conventions, and Other Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering 202
From Near and Far 216

FEATURES FOR THE HOME

Spring House Cleaning by Caroline Eyring Miner 175
Flower Arrangements for Springtime by Dorothy J. Roberts 177
Be a Guest at Your Own Party by Phyllis Snow 186
A Book Review by Gladys K. Wagner 191
Soup Makes the Meal by Sara Mills 197
Pull a New Apron From the Rag Bag by Rachel K. Laurgaard 209

POETRY

The Miracle Returns — Frontispiece by Christie Lund Coles 147
Immortal by Sadie O. Clark 152
March by Grace Sayre 160
After Deep Winter by Katherine F. Larsen 161
Beyond This Moment by Pansye H. Powell 173
To a Fountain by Dana Benson 196
A Square of Grass by Ida L. Belnap 201
Another Spring by Nyal W. Anderson 201
The Silent by Margery S. Stewart 201
The Story Hour by Norma Wrathall 209
The Awakening by Celia Van Cott 213
Against the Breath by C. Cameron Johns 213
Visiting Teachers by Eva J. Lillywhite 214

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

A WELCOME TO NEW MEMBERS OF THE FAMILY READING CLUB

A BOOK THAT SHOULD BE IN EVERY AMERICAN HOME

In these turbulent times, when only a strong, unshakable belief in God can help us face the future calmly and confidently—perhaps no book, other than the Holy Bible itself, can be of greater inspiration and spiritual help than "The Three Meanings." This single volume of over 750 pages contains all three of Dr. Fosdick's world-famous Meaning Books—three books that have helped many thousands of people understand and appreciate more fully the Christian way of life. Your copy, plus a copy of Greville Cooke's "The Light of the World" are both free as your Gift if you join the Family Reading Club at this time.

BOOKS FOR THE WHOLE FAMILY

The Family Reading Club distributes books which are worthwhile, interesting and entertaining without being objectionable. Each month publishers submit books which they believe will meet our standards, and our Editors select the one book they can recommend most enthusiastically to members.

HOW MEMBERS SAVE 50%—There is no charge for membership in the Family Reading Club beyond the cost of the books themselves. You pay only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling) for the books you purchase after reading the book review magazine which will come to your home each month. It is not necessary to purchase a book every month — you may accept as few as four each year to retain your membership. And you will receive a handsome new "Bonus" Book free for each four selections you take. Thus, the purchase of books from the Club for only $1.89 each — instead of the publishers' regular retail prices of $2.50 to $4.00 — saves you 25% to 35% of your book dollars. And when the value of the Bonus Books is figured in, you actually save as much as 50%!

JOIN NOW — SEND NO MONEY — If you believe in a book club which will appeal to your finest instincts, let us send you both of the books described here as your free Membership Gift Books. Just mail the coupon today. However, as this unusual offer may be withdrawn at any time, we urge you to mail the coupon NOW!

FAMILY READING CLUB — MINEOLA, N. Y.

Three Famous Books Now In One Big Volume
Over 750 Pages Including:
1. The Meaning of Faith
2. The Meaning of Prayer
3. The Meaning of Service

"THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD"
By Greville Cooke
ALSO FREE
This is free with membership.

Dr. Harry Emerson Fosdick's
Every member of your family will be thrilled by this warm reconstruction and interpretation of the life of Christ. Published at $3.95, your copy of this inspired portrait of the Master

Mail Coupon Now!
BOTH FREE WITH MEMBERSHIP
THE THREE MEANINGS and THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD

FAMILY READING CLUB, Dept. 3 RSM
MINEOLA, NEW YORK

Please send me the two books listed above as my free Membership Gift Books and enroll me as a member of the Family Reading Club. Each month you will send me a review of the Club's forthcoming selection. I have the privilege of notifying you in advance if I do not wish to accept any selection, or whether I wish to purchase any of the alternate books offered — at the special members' price of only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling). There are no membership dues or fees, and I may accept as few as four selections or alternates during the coming twelve months, beginning with the current Club selection. As a member, I will receive a free Bonus Book with each four Club selections or alternates I accept.

(Please Print)

Street and No.

Same price in Canada: 105 Bond St., Toronto 2
Offer good only in the U. S. A. And Canada

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 38, NO. 3 MARCH 1951 She Miracle Returns Christie Lund Coles The lengthening sunlight spills across the floor, The shadows softly, duleatly trace The beauty of the lilac by the door In an intricate, dark filigree of lace; Music peals forth as birds in upward flight Brush wings across the morning-glory sky. The spirit, too, soars up to tiptoe height 'As awareness moves us like a sudden cry. The miracle returns, and with it emma The old, wild longing as an ancient hope Pounding against the veins like beat of drums, Timeless and lovely as the mind's wide scope. All that has questioned, doubted, reaffirms Faith in the verities... As spring returns. The Cover: "Picture Window," Monument Valley, Utah, Photograph by Ray Loomis. Cover Design by Evan Jensen. Highlights of the Past President Amy Brown Lyman [Address delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 28, 1950.| HE life of the Relief Society has covered what is considered one of the most interesting, important, and eventful pe-. Riods of history—the last half of the nineteenth century and the first half of the twentieth. It was a period of scientific discovery and invention, a period of transition and change, which included the emergence of American women into public life. _It was the period when the gospel was restored. And in this changing world the Relief Society, wherever it has functioned, has, in addition to its immediate "home work," made its full share of helpful contributions to society. Many a stream of progtess has sprung from its sources. In its program of self-improvement and community betterment it has many achievements to its credit, with which we are all familiar. A few examples only we shall be able to mention today. | As early as August 1842 (when the Relief Society was only five months old) and at a time when _ "females" (as women then were designated) were not supposed or even permitted to take part in public affairs, the president of the so-° ciety bravely disregarded all conventions of the day and assumed the role of ambassador to the governor of her State. In the interest of her people. " On that August day, when the persecution of the saints in Nauvoo Page 148 seemed at its height, Emma Smith, accompanied by Eliza R. Snow and Amanda Smith, journeyed to Quincy, Illinois, the capital of the State, and presented a petition or memorial to Governor Ford in behalf of the Mormon people, asking for justice and protection. Soon. After the Deseret News was established in 1850, Relief Society women began to contribute to its columns, both prose and verse. This step inspired them with the idea of publishing a woman's paper, and, in June 1872, they established the Woman's Exponent, forerunner of The Relief Society Magazine. This paper opened new avenues for women writers, developed talent, and gave opportunity for women to express their views, As a result, a sizable group of writers and journalists was produced, and, within a few years, several books of poems and prose were published by them. Through their interest in health and welfare work, Relief Society women felt the need of educating themselves in this field. As early as 1873, when women doctors were just beginning to appear in the United States, a Relief Society woman, Romania B. Penrose, set out for Philadelphia where she entered the newly established Woman's Medical College, and completed the four-year course. She was soon followed by two others, then four more, and finally there were a | dozen Utah women doctors. HIGHLIGHTS OF THE PAST A few years after this the society established the Deseret Hospital, the first Latter-day Saint hospital, and introduced training courses in obstetrics and nursing. Then there were the wheat storage movement, seri-culture, and the building of Relief Society halls. Several decades later (1914), an educational program for members was inaugurated with uniform courses of study and with formal class instruction. In more recent times, after a few years' study of mental hygiene, Relief Society women, convinced of the need of an institution for the training and care of children who never grow up, were the chief factors in the establishment of the Utah State Training School at American Fork. 'The state legislature could not ignore the petitions they received from the women of this organization with hundreds of signatures. The establishment of the Mormon Handicraft Shop, and the introduction of choirs of Singing Mothers throughout the society, are high points of later day activities of which we are justly proud. One of the outstanding and satisfying experiences of the organization, which came in the seventies, was the recognition it received outside the confines of the Church. I refer especially to that recognition coming from the national leaders of the Women's Movement, which later resulted in an affiliation between our women and the organized womanhood of America, and which was a means of allaying much prejudice against the Latter-day Saint people. - 149 It was remarkable that the comparatively small group of pioneer Relief Society women in this, the isolated West, should have attracted the attention and aroused the interest of the great national leaders in the faraway East; and to such an extent that they invited the Utah women to co-operate with them, first in the campaign they were waging for national woman's suffrage, and, later, in other important movements in the interest of human welfare. Such a step would not be surprising in this more liberal day, but it was a surprise in those days of intense prejudice against Latterday Saints, and even persecution and prosecution of the Latter-day Saint people. Accepting this invitation, the Utah women, from this time on, worked in the suffrage cause both locally and nationally, and attended the national conventions. Salt Lake City soon became a continuous rallying ground for suftrage. There is no doubt but that Mormon women were a real asset to the suffrage cause for they had had some unique political experiences at home, which had sharpened their wits and made of them wise and capable workers. During their first few years in Utah, they enjoyed the franchise. This right, however, was taken away for a period of eighteen years when Utah became a territory. Later, in 1870, it was granted for seventeen yeats, then lost once more for eight years. 'Then finally it was restored permanently when Utah became a state in 1896. When the national and _international federations or councils of women were formed in Washing- 150 ton, D. C. In 1888, Utah women were not only invited to attend, but also to become, through their organizations, charter members of the national group. At a preliminary meeting $n arrangements for the convention, when a_ prejudiced committee member asked, "Why this invitation to Mormon women?" the great Susan B. Anthony, general chairman, and president of the National Suffrage Association, replied, with some spirit: These are among the first I would invite. I know them well. I have worked with them. I have visited them in their home state, and have seen them in action. 'They are earnest, progressive, able women, valiant champions of every worthy cause. 'They stood firmly for antislavery, although they were far removed from the. Campaigns and agitation while pioneering in the far West. And today, they stand for peace and arbitration, for temperance and even prohibition, for woman suffrage, and for all other humanitarian causes. These Mormon women know how to organize, they know how to preside over and conduct large assemblies, they can debate, they can preach, they can pray. I might add here, in passing, that this era was the era when oratory was a major art, different from today, when oratory has declined to mere plain, logical speaking; and that the American women of the seventies, eighties, and nineties compared favorably with men as orators and public speakers. And the Relief Society women of that period were not found wanting. Many of their leaders wete eloquent and stirring public speakers, reaching a peak of perfection that few can attain. They not only excelled in delivering prepared addresses and orations, but also in giving exRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 temporaneous speeches. In this latter respect they would have made excellent impromptu radio commentators—and their earnest prayers were classic.. These stirring, bold, and genuinely great accomplishments, which no doubt resulted from their often trying-and soul-testing experiences _ as refugees and as pioneers, I myself witnessed as a young woman. The thrilling impressions they made - upon me I can never forget. Again, Utah women were honored by being invited to participate in the great Woman's Congress which was held at the World's Fair in Chicago in 1893. 'This was the greatest gathering of women that had ever convened. The Congress proper consisted of general sessions by the Congress itself, and sub-congresses or section meetings where national and international groups were invited to hold their own separate meetings to present their own work to the public. | All meetings were held in the many-roomed Women's Building, at times several sections being held simultaneously. 'The Relief Society readily accepted the invitation to be represented at the Congress, and availed itself of the opportunity of holding a session and presenting ~ and explaining its work. The following few extracts from a report made by Mrs. Gilchrist, a news columnist, for her Ohio home paper will show the degree of success that followed the efforts of the Relief Society on that lmportant occasion: This morning we attended one of the most interesting of the Congresses thus far, to me, that of the Utah women, in HIGHLIGHTS OF THE PAST the National Women's Relief Society Congress. Among the speakers were Madame Zina D. H. Young, wife of Brigham Young, or one of the wives, who as President of the Society, made the opening remarks, although my friend, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, widow of President Daniel H. Wells, acted as chairman and introduced the speakers. They were Sarah M. Kimball, and Jane S. Richards, wives of Mormons high in the Church; and Isabella M. Horne, one of the mothers in Zion. Mrs. Horne told the story of trials and privations, as she was one of those who were driven from Nauvoo that dreadful winter of 1846, as through ice, snow and rain they made their weary journey across Iowa, taking them three and one-half months to accomplish. A child was born to her on the way. To hear Mrs. Horne one could not but think of the Bible story of the Hebrews and their deliverance from the Egyptians. Zina Young Card, daughter of Brigham Young, a very bright and comely woman, spoke of the children of Utah and told how they are taught lessons of patriotism and purity. Nellie Little told of their amusements and referred to the time when they were having a celebration, singing patriotic songs and listening to the reading of the Declaration of Independence, news came to them that U. S. Troops [Johnston's Army] were on the way to quell a supposed insurrection. The dance and the theatre are their universal amusement. They always invoke the blessings of Deity at the beginning and end of all entertainments. Brigham Young was a great patron of the theatre, his name a monument of the drama. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, a sweet faced mother in Zion, spoke of the authors and journalists in Utah, and the grain saving women. She said they had known what it was to be hungry, to hear their children cry for bread, and, said she, "If ever there is a famine, come to Zion." Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon, a beautiful, bright, young woman, gave a wonderful 151 address upon the "types of women in Utah." Before the session closed, Mrs. Wells called me to the platform and I went and sat by Brigham Young's wife and took by the hand each of those women with whom my sympathy has been so long. Truly their forbearance and kindness is saint-like. This one meeting was to me worth coming to Chicago for. Both Susan B. Anthony and Anna Howard Shaw visited briefly the large Relief Society session, as they made their rounds calling upon other groups meeting at the same hour. The address of Emmeline B. Wells on "Utah Women Authors and Journalists" was published at this time in the Chicago Daily Inter-Ocean. These experiences and this cooperation show the greatness of the women of that day—of both national leaders and the Latter-day Saint women of Utah. But over and above all the other achievements of the Relief Society, and by far its greatest asset, is the spirit of the organization—the spirit which has been created and developed within it—and which distinguishes it and makes it so potent in its life and efforts. This spirit, which seemed to come with the very inception of the organization, was nurtured, and shaped, and developed, by the pioneer women of the society; and made by them so permanent that it has persisted continuously for these 108 years. _And in turn it has motivated the society itself and inspired it to great deeds and achievements. It has also motivated and inspired the mem- 152 bers, guided their footsteps, and safeguarded their activities. The Relief Society spirit was born of the circumstances under which the organization was effected—of being instituted by a Prophet of God under direct inspiration, who recognized the potentialities of women; and of a sublime belief in him and an unfaltering faith in his mission. This spirit has been fostered and accelerated by the following factors: (1) by the burning testimanies of the individual members of the Society of the divinity of. The restored gospel; (2) by their abiding and unfaltering faith in God and their strict obedience to the laws and commandments of the Church; by a deep-seated recogniRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 tion of the divine authority of the holy Priesthood and a willingness to follow its leadership; and, by a sincere belief in the great destiny of 'the organization as a sure and important aid to the Priesthood in the establishment, - finally, of the kingdom of God here on the earth. Let us of the present day, who are the beneficiaries of the great accomplishments of pioneer women of. The past, give proof of our appreciation and gratitude for their noble efforts by dedicating ourselves to the carrying forward of the work, and to the keeping fresh in our souls and in our hearts this spirit which has made our organization so truly great. | That we may do this is my earnest prayer. Love Story _ Sadie O. Clark In March the dogwood bloomed beneath the pine; She clothed herself in white from twig to stem, Lace scarf on head, embroidery to the hem, And to him whispered, 'May your strength be mine. "Your arms protect me from the wind and sun, I could not live without your gracious shade." She spread her blossoming petals; through the glade Her slender form and sweet perfume were one The pine tree's lifted arms were eloquent, His silence seemed to mark him unaware, But one stray branch, its shining needles bent, Caressed the flowering fragrance of her hair Shird Prize 5; tory Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest She Shall Have Music Frances Carter Yost HE warm golden sunlight poured over the valley like butter and honey. The leaves of the climbing vine outside the window turned listlessly. As Ann Marley watched Parley working in the nearby field, time seemed to dissolve with the sound of his mower. For three days now Ann _ had wanted to tell Parley about the spinet piano the Warrens had for sale, but every time he was around words congealed in her throat. If it had been a new washer, or a sewing machine, or even a deep freeze, practical Parley would understand the need. He would even get busy doing some dickering to see that she had it. But a piano, to Parley, would be considered a toy, something to play with. Parley wouldn't want to pay his hard-earned money for a piano. Parley didn't know either about the inward music in Ann's soul, the deep desire which had somehow spun itself, through the years, into a hard ball of dissatisfaction., Then from nowhere and everywhere the memory came. It surged into Ann's mind like a wave breaking on a beach and washed away the view of vine and scented hay fields. Ann fought against the memory, for the recollections were distasteful Ann was twelve years of age, twelve, with its problems and _ perenough to play for church. FRANCES CARTER YOST plexities, and a deep urge for music. "Daddy do you s'pose we could buy a piano? Oh, it doesn't have to be a brand new one," Ann added quickly, "just an upright that has keys and will sound the right notes." Jacob Coles looked over his newspaper at his youngest daughter, a thin, gangling, skimmed-milk slip of a girl. "What do you want with a piano?" Ann's father inquired. His older daughters hadn't pestered him about such things. Ann seemed to be different. "T want one to play, Daddy. If 'had a piano here at home to practice on I could learn to play well I just Page 153 154 know I could, Daddy!" Ann pleaded her case with her eyes water-logged, and her hands tight clasped. "How do you know play?" Jacob Coles hadn't taken the time to get acquainted with this daughter before. It was hard at this late date. He found himself wishing she would go about her play, so he could return to his newspaper. What was she saying? "Oh, I can play, Daddy. I can! I play on the church piano every day the doors are open." Ann Dlurted out her secret and immediately regretted it. "And who gave you permission to enter the church?" Jacob Coles snatched at an opportunity to be done with the piano subject. His long, narrow eyes were surprisingly green, like blades of grass. "Why Why no one," Ann stammered. "But nobody would care. I just play the piano. I don't hurt anything." Ann made an impulsive gesture with her hands. "Don't raise your voice, Ann." Jacob Coles modulated his own voice and turned the corners of his mouth into a somewhat uncertain smile. "Who taught you to play, Ann?" }: "Nobody, Daddy. I just pick tunes out by ear. I know they aren't exactly right," Ann added, hopefully, "'though they do sound good. If I had a piano I could take some lessons." Ann regretted this last statement. She hadn't meant to approach the subject of lessons until she had safely acquired a piano. "TI couldn't give you advantages your older sisters didn't have, Ann," Mr. Coles said, fairness and firmyou can RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 ness being his policy. "And remember, no going into the church again except for services." Mr. Coles resumed his reading. Ann knew her interview was over. She had humbled herself, had revealed her secrets—her innermost desires. Even the daily rendezvous at the church must stop. She had gambled everything she had on a chance of getting a piano in her home, but she had failed to convince her father. Ann never mentioned the piano, or music lessons to anyone from that day forward. She hadn't gone to the church to play the piano, for. 'Jacob Coles' family: followed his wishes to the letter. Ann _ had grown up, had moved about in the whirlpool of life, with the desire for music burning in her being. * OK KK és] must talk to Parley about the Warren piano right today," Ann said aloud, though no one was within earshot. Else will buy it first." She opened the screen door and started walking toward the hay field. Now the logical time to bring up an important subject with Parley was when he was rested and well-fed, and sitting in his chair with his slippers on and his evening paper in his hands. Saw again, in her mind's eye, her father's long, slit green eyes as they peered at her over a newspaper. That approach hadn't worked out then, and she wouldn't risk it now. She decided to try the hay field this time, and hurried faster toward the moving mowing machine. As Parley mowed the fresh green hay, the scented clover sprayed the "If I don't someone - But Ann © SHE SHALL HAVE MUSIC air with sweet perfume. Ann watched him riding the mower around and around the field, cutting wide swaths. Usually he reminded Ann of a Roman in a twowheel chariot when he worked on the tractor. 'Today, however, her mind tugged at the spinet piano which the Warrens had for sale. She started to run through the cut hay, then stopped, for she didn't want to appear like a house afire. She must be calm and collected with her approach. She musn't fumble now as she had done so many years ago. As she neared the mower, Parley stopped the tractor and wiped the sweat from his brow with the-back of his glove and jumped off into the shade of the tractor. "I made some punch," Ann said, pouring out a glass, "and some cookies." "Good girl," Parley said, with a grin. "Let's sit here in the tractor shade and eat some together. The hay is clean and cool." Parley Marley was a handsome fellow, even with the dirt of the day upon him. He had a lean, brown face under thick waves of dark, unruly hair. He had won his callouses as an honest hard-working farmer, and enjoyed the fruits of his labor. He drove a good bargain in selling his product, and was known for his ability to get the better of a deal in all tradings. Within Ann's soul, timidity fought a battle with desire. To approach the subject of the piano was now or never. Parley noted a bright pink flush on her cheeks, and her lips trembled. When she spoke, however, it was with her usual calmness. Ly into his brown ones. 155 "Parley, the Warrens have their spinet piano for sale. I I want to buy it." Ann had laid her problem out in one sentence. She realized she should have been more conniving, but it was good to have worded her desire, as if she had dispelled a large gas balloon from around her heart. "A spinet piano! Good grief, Girl! What are you thinking of?" Parley whistled. 'Then he smiled at Ann as if she were joking. "T mean it, Parley, I want to buy it." Ann's blue eyes looked directNow the subject was out, she had to see it through. "We can manage. I'll skimp and save, honest I will." Parley pointed to the sky getting black behind the deep blue of the afternoon. "See those clouds, Ann. I've got to get this hay down and baled before the rain breaks." With one leap Parley straddled his tractor seat, and started the motor. Ann called above the tractor's hum: "What about the piano?" Parley merely waved as he started mowing again. Ann picked up the empty pitcher, the glasses, and the cookie plate. Again she had gambled everything on her inward desire for music. Again she had failed. She found herself balancing her father's answer—'"I couldn't give you advantages the older girls didn't have," with that of Parley's, "Good grief, Girl, a spinet piano! What are you thinking of?" The scales balanced. * OK KOK NN had fried chicken, hot rolls, and sliced tomato salad arranged attractively on the table when Parley entered the cheery breakfast 156 nook after his shower that evening. He was dressed in a tan sports shirt and gabardine slacks. He hadn't said he had a Farm Bureau meeting, and it wasn't ball practice ~ night., "Going places?" Ann questioned as they finished eating. "Yeah, yeah. I have to see a fellow. I'm dickering on some machinery," Parley said, wiping his mouth with his napkin. "Machinery?" Ann almost bit the word. Why, Parley had the latest and best machinery for his farming. Was machinery always more important than a piano? Was it wrong, Ann asked herself, to invest in inner qualities, the heart, the mind, the spirit? Yet to bring up the subject of the Warren piano again would be useless. Parley folded his napkin carefully, pushed in his chair, and went over to the back of Ann's chair and tipped her chin up. "Good supper.. Good girl. Now excuse me, honey. I gotta hurry, but I'll be back soon.' He kissed her on both cheeks and was gone. "More machinery," Ann sobbed, "more machinery." her vision that she didn't see the car drive away. Ann was in the living room embroidering some dish towels for the Relief Society bazaar, when the car slid to the curb. Parley unfolded himself as he got out of the car, and walked up to the house. He wasn't whistling, which meant one thing, he hadn't been successful. He dropped into his favorite easy chair, not even bothering to take off his sports jacket. But he didn't pick up the evening paper as usual. He just sat, chewing on the end of a Tears so veiled — RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 195] match, a trait he always had when he figured and dickered. After a long silence, Ann said: "Did you buy?" She kept her eyes glued on her sewing. "Buy what?" Parley questioned back. He had thrown one leg over the arm of the chair, but still chewed on the match and mentally tabulated and figured. "Why the machinery you went to see about," Ann answered. Her outward placid disposition was a triumph of mind over matter. There was a long silence. "Ann," Parley spoke at length, his voice almost inaudible, "is a piano worth two fifty?" "Piano!" 'The word lifted Ann's soul, and sent it off into space again. "Yeah, a piano like that spinet of Warten's, " Parley said in a wry way of his, still chewing on the match and making mental tabulations. "Oh, Parley!» Ann dropped her sewing and came over and put her arms around his neck. "You're a dear." "Wait a minute!" Parley chewed his match and stopped to recon- © noiter. "I didn't say I bought a piano. I merely stated that they wanted two hundred and fifty dollars for it." "Then you turned that grand offer down? Oh, Parley, that was a wonderful buy," Ann reasoned unreasonably. Her arms fell limp from his neck with disappointment and hung at her sides. "What else could I do? 'They wouldn't dicker, Baby."" It was not so much a question of money with Parley, as a question of values. "They wouldn't even knock off ten bucks. What was I to do?" SHE SHALL HAVE MUSIC NN felt the tears streak down her face. She turned to run to her bedroom before. Parley saw that her emotions were out of control, but it was too late. Parley was out of the chair and was at her heels. She felt his arms, like bands of steel about her. Parley was behind her walking her to the large dressing mirror. Panic made her rigid in his arms. Parley stood her in front of the mirror and jokingly said: "See how pretty you are when you cry!" His arms held her firmly, she could not escape. Since she could not break the bands of his grip, there was but one way to avoid her reflection in the mirror, drop her eyes. 'Through the veil of moisture Ann saw Parley's checkbook lying open on the vanity. There it was in black and white, the stub of a check which was made out to Mark Warren, for two hundred fifty dollars. Parley still held Ann's hands firmly. She bent her face and wiped the tears on her sleeve, then looked G 157 at Parley's reflection in the mirror. His smile was different now, not teasing, not blundering, but touching the corners of his mouth and gently. "But, Parley, I don't understand. You said the Warrens were asking — two fifty. That's what you paid!" Ann was baffled. "Well, I made Warren come through with delivery at that price." Parley smiled. Parley had. Capitulated without losing his pride. Everything was wonderful. It seemed to Ann the world had never been so beautiful. She could take lessons now. She would make up for every wasted moment since she was twelve. It was never too late to begin a life's dream. She would still learn to be an accompanist for the church. | It had been a queer day, like a patchwork quilt, with light and dark places. Ann blinked the last tears from their ducts and smiled (Continued on page 214) G #4 FRANCES CARTER YOST Frances Carter Yost, Bancroft, Idaho, daughter of Leo T. And Caroline Webb Carter, is the wife of a rancher, Glenn F. Yost, and the mother of four children. Mrs. Yost collaborated in writing and compiling Bancroft's Book of Remembrance, published in January 1949. Proceeds from the sale of this book are being used for Bancroft's new Latter-day Saint chapel. Her book of poetry, Brim With Joy, was published in 1950, and is receiving praiseworthy recognition. At present, Mrs. Yost writes a column for two weekly papers, the Soda Springs Sun, and the Grace Herald, and she is correspondent for The Deseret News (Salt Lake City), and the Idaho State Journal. Three of Mrs. Yost's stories have been published in The Relief Society Magazine: "Filleth the Hungry Soul" (May 19 September 1946); and "Prelude to Christmas" (December 1946). This is her first appearance as a winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. Active in Church work, Mrs. Yost is now the president of the Bancroft Consolidated Primary, which includes five wards. 46); "There Is Still Life' She Prophet Yoseph Smith TESTIMONY OF SISTER M. ISABELLA HORNE* (Found in the papers of Martha Horne Tingey, daughter of M. Isabella Horne, and submitted to the Magazine by Bertha K. Tingey) HAYING been requested by the late apostle, Abraham Owen Woodruff, some months prior to his death, to leave my personal testimony to my children concerning the life, character, labors, and mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith... I cheerfully comply, as follows: I first met the Prophet Joseph Smith in the fall of nee at my home in the town of Scarborough, Canada West. When I first shook hands with him I was thiilled through and through and I _knew that he was a Prophet of God, and that testimony has never left me, but is still strong within me, and has been a monitor to me, so that I can now bear a faithful testimony to the divinity of the mission of that great man of God. During the three days series of meetings held in a new barn which my husband had built, the Prophet made his home with us. The use of this barn became a necesbecause the Methodists, who were bitterly opposed to us, refused to let their churches to the Prophet and saints. As an example of Brother Joseph's humility, as well as his respect for authority, I mention the following: As soon as he reached Toronto, Canada, he inquired who the presiding officer was. On learning that it was the late President John Taylor, the Prophet said, "Send for him, as I desire to hold a meeting with the people." When President Taylor arrived, Brother Joseph said, "Brother Taylor, I am the Prophet Joseph. I want you to call a meeting, as I would like to talk to the saints." While in Canada he visited all the branches of the Church, and gave the saints instructions on the organization and order of the Priesthood, respect for proper authority, corrected some of the mis-translations of the Bible, and took pleasure in answering questions pertaining to the gospel and the organization of the Church. Brother and Sister 'Taylor, my husband, and I enjoyed the privilege of accompanying the Prophet on these visits. During the year following the Prophet's visit to Canada, my husband and I removed to the United States, and finally settled in Quincy, Illinois. *Sister M. Isabella (Mary I.) Horne, a prominent pioneer leader in Relief Society activities, was born in Kent, England, in 1818, the daughter of Stephen and Mary Ann Hales. The family moved to Canada in 1832, and in 1836 Isabella married Joseph Horne. That same year she became acquainted with the missionaries Orson and Parley Pratt and soon thereafter joined the Church. The Horne family later made their home in Nauvoo, Illinois, and were close friends of the Prophet Joseph Smith. In Utah, Sister Horne served for many years as general treasurer of Relief Society and was a member of the executive board of the Deseret Hospital Association, which was organizd in 1882. For thirty years she was president of the Senior Retrenchment Association. She also served as president of the Woman's Co-operative Mercantile and Manufacturing Association, established to encourage manufacturing in the mountain valleys and to give women an opportunity to use their sewing skills. She was counselor to Sister Zina D. H. Young in the Silk Association of pioneer days, and was outstanding for her leadership in the suffrage movement. Sister Horne died in 1906. Many of the descendants of her fifteen children are now active and outstanding social and religious leaders. Page 158 Willard Luce THE BLUE MOUNTAINS, SAN JUAN COUNTY, UTAH r) on 2. * eae After Deep Winter Katherine F, Larsen Spring will come like a thunderclap, After winter's still, white cold; Trees will burgeon suddenly, And the robin's song be bold. Spring will stnke across the land With full impact of surprise, Breaking the breath-held iron spell— Green astounding snow-blind eyes. Spring will be a trumpet call Clear and challenging, a sound To mark the swell and surge of life Teeming up from underground. Page 16] The Sewing Kit Speaks Lillian S. Feltman 'M not a very big person. And I'm really not important at all. Mostly I just sit in my own little spot back on the shelf, and usually no one notices me. I'm not a bit fancy. On the outside I'm a warm brown wood, and on the inside I'm green velvet. Trudy's father and mother planned me from start to finish when Trudy was a sweet little girl with yellow curls and big blue eyes and chubby dimples and smiles. Trudy was just eight years old then, and I was waiting for her on Christmas morning when she came down the wide stairs in her woolly pajamas, brushing the sleep from her eyes, to see what Santa had left for her under the Christmas tree. Trudy gave a little inarticulate series of "ohs" and "ahs" and picked me up. She looked at herself in the little mirror that's glued on the inside of my lid. I guess I must have looked very interesting that morning with my imposing array of spools of different colored threads, manysized buttons, neat pin-cushion, a package of needles, and another of pins, blunt scissors, and a measuring tape. There was a card of snapfasteners, some scraps of dress trimming and material, and some hooks and eyes for Trudy's family's wardrobe. Throughout the years Trudy and I were together many hours each day. And we had such fun watching her dolls' various articles of clothing take shape and grow under Trudy's nimble fingers. Trudy loved Page 162 her family very dearly, and every scrap of material her mother gave to. Her was used to make them beautiful. And it made me happy, too— to think that I could help her a tiny bit. I always felt so warm and cozy holding the lovely pieces of cloth close to me as I watched Trudy at her work with other bits of silk or lace or calico or woolen. I remember when Trudy graduated from high school, and how she cut off a too-long end of her sash and tucked the piece in under my lid. I was very proud of Trudy that day, I can tell you. And then I wakened one afternoon from my nap to hear Trudy say, "Mother, do you think it's too soon to marry him next month?" And Mrs. March, Trudy's mother, said lightly, "Why, no, dear, not if that's when you and he want to be married." And not long afterward I began to get glimpses of white satin, now and then, as the day of the wedding drew near. Trudy was very happy those days, always humming gaily to herself. Once, when she picked me up to carry me out onto the porch to do some sewing, she hugged me close in her arms and said, "Oh, I love him so!" My, you'd have thought I was "him" the way she squeezed me! I wasn't in on the wedding re- ° ception because I was back on my shelf. How I wished Trudy would forget and leave me in an inconspicuous spot; but Trudy is a very THE SEWING KIT SPEAKS tidy girl, so of course that was wishing for too much. Finally I went to live in Joe's and 'Trudy's house, such a dear little dream house tucked away under the maples that grew tall and stalwart, as if to guard it from the outside world. ONE day a button from Joe's shirt came in to keep me company. And not long after, there was one from his coat, and then another off his vest. I guessed Trudy must be awfully busy not to put them back in their proper places. Then I learned that Trudy had met some new friends, and just knowing them took up so much of her time that there wasn't much left for other things. And one night I heard Joe say, "If you'd spend more time at home and less running around with that crowd, you wouldn't be so rushed all the time and could get around to these things that need to be done." And 'Trudy snapped — really snapped—at Joe. "Don't you criticize my friends. You're always so busy and I have to have something to do!" "I have to keep busy to get ahead," said Joe. "And if you could see straight you'd see there was plenty to do here at home—if you'd run things right." "Oh!" gasped 'Trudy. "I think you're horrid!" Trudy slammed the door then, so I didn't get to hear any more, but I wondered what had become of Trudy's good nature. It wasn't like her to shout at Joe in that fashion. 'our way out to the Sap _ 163 The buttons kept coming in— one or two at a time—and occasionally one was taken out, but not very often. I began to wonder how clothes could hang on when so. Many buttons were off. One of the shining, beautiful buttons from Trudy's wedding gown came too, and I loved having it there among all the rest. But when it stayed and stayed I fretted and worried about it. Though I loved having it, it should have been with me for only a short while. It belonged back on the white satin gown, and being off so long made it look like neglect on Trudy's part. And that didn't look good to me. ON E night Trudy carried me into the living room after supper. I wondered where Joe was. 'Trudy looked a bit unhappy. She tried humming a tune as she started some embroidery work, but it didn't go so well. Trudy's heart wasn't in it. Presently the doorbell rang and some of 'Trudy's new friends greeted her noisily. "All alone again!" one of the girls said in mock disbelief. "Well, nobody can tell me Joe needs to work late that many nights!'' "He'd rather work than do anything else," 'Trudy explained ruefully. "Well," someone else chimed in, "we're not going to stand by and let you wear yourself out just sitting at home, waiting for him! Grab your coat and let's go! We're on phire Club. You should see it. It's really some- _ thing!" 164 "Oh, I couldn't go there without Joe," 'Trudy protested. "Sure you can," a girl named Mavis contributed. "Neddie's working late and I'm going without him. Rita's going without her husband, too." It didn't take much persuading after that. Trudy put her coat on and went on out with them. She had forgotten all about me. They had been gone @nly a few minutes when Joe came home. "Hi, sweetheart," he called, as he shut the door and threw his hat expertly in a certain spot on the couch. He frowned at the silence - that greeted him. _ "Trudy, are you here?" he called. He went on into the kitchen and the house was quiet for a few minutes. 'Then he came back, growling to himself. "If that bunch of playwomen would leave her alone she'd. Be all right. I shouldn't have stayed so late, but Perrson wanted that report first thing in the morning.... She was busy, too. 'There's her fancywork.. Why can't they leave her alone?" 'Trudy came' in a little before midnight. Joe was sitting in a big chair doing exactly nothing. | "Oh, Joe," 'Trudy said breathlessly, "I'm sorry to be so late. I wanted to come home hours ago, but no one else was ready, and I hadn't any way to come by myself." Joe gazed at her for a long. Moment. "I suppose you couldn't have walked!" he volunteered sarcastically., "Why, no," Trudy answered honestly, "not from the Sapphire Club. It's too far." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 ~ "The Sapphire Club!" ploded. Been?" Trudy's. Face turned white. "Don't be angry, Joe,' she pleaded softly. "The crowd said it was all right if Joe ex- "Is that where you've I went while you were working. Others do it." "Oh, the crowd says it's all right, so that makes it just ducky!" Joe napped. "Don't you know what people think of a girl who goes there without an escort?" "But ''m married!" gasped Trudy. "Yes, you're married! And does it look any better for you to go there without me, just because you happen to be married to me?" "T don't just happen to be martied to you," Trudy said, still gentle. - "And I didn't know it wasn't all right to go there unescorted, as long as there was a crowd of us. I wouldn't have gone alone." "Oh, you wouldn't have gone alone!" Joe echoed. "That isn't necessary," 'Trudy an- _ swered tiredly. UT Joe had spent the evening alone, brooding over too many possibilities of things that might have happened to heed the wake note in Trudy's voice. "I wouldn't mind knowing just what you do think is necessary," said Joe, steel in his tone. "Isn't keeping up your home necessary— and having some sort of a meal ready when I come in from work?" "T never know when you're coming," Trudy defended herself. Joe went on as if she hadn't spoken. "And sewing on a few _much-needed_ buttons. By THE SEWING KIT SPEAKS George, I could do the whole thing better by myself!" Trudy looked as if he had slapped her face, hard. | _ "Then perhaps you'd better do it by yourself—and leave me out of it," she said icily. "Perhaps I'd better," Joe agreed. "You can begin any time you like," suggested 'Trudy., "And the sooner the better!" snapped Joe. "No time like the present!" Trudy shrugged. "Tonight!" Joe said firmly, and went out of the room. Presently he came back with a suitcase in his hand, a tie sticking out one side and the edge of a sock from an end. Trudy hadn't moved, and she kept her gaze fastened carefully to the opposite wall as if she were studying some remote aspect of a certain spot on the wallpaper. Perhaps Joe expected her to make some move to let him know that he was still welcome to stay—that she wanted him to stay. But she » just stood there stonily, not moving, not saying anything. Joe picked up his hat and jammed it on his head. He looked at Trudy once again, speculatively, before he opened the door and went out into the midnight air, closing the door solidly behind him. Trudy stood motionless for two whole minutes, and then she crumpled up into a corner of the couch and sobbed heartbrokenly. I wished that there was some-; thing I could say or do to help her.; But then I guess there wasn't any- 165 thing anyone could do or say after what had happened. Trudy was still in a corner of the couch when a knock came at the door next morning. I had watched her sobbing fitfully there all night, and had seen daylight come through the little window in the front door and, later, the soft rosy rays of the morming sun. Trudy raised her tear-streaked face when the knock came and tiptoed warily to where she could see through the tiny square of glass. She tiptoed back again and sat down. Plainly she didn't want to see whoever it was. Presently footsteps sounded on the walk and Trudy looked out to see her visitors go. 'hen she came over and sat down by me. "T guess Mavis and Della couldn't wait to see what came of my staying at the Sapphire so late with them. Well—they can just wonder. They don't need to know!" [NX the days following Trudy moved about the house like a little gray ghost. She didn't go outside, and when someone knocked at the door—as they did several times—she waited quietly for them to go away again. Until one day, Mrs. March—she lived across town —came to the door. Trudy let her in, and then she closed the door quickly. Trudy's mother is a very wise woman, and one look at her daughter's face told her that everything was not just right. But she sat down and said in an ordinary tone of voice, "Just thought I'd drop in and 166 see how you were. We hadn't seen you around for a day or two." Day or two! It had been more than a week since Trudy had seen anyone. "No," 'Trudy offered, "I haven't been out. I haven't wanted to see anybody." _ "Qh," said Mrs. March. "Well, I'm glad you're all right." "Yes." said Trudy. She glanced at the clock. "It's almost time for lunch. Will you have lunch with me, Mother?" "Why, yes, thank you," Mrs. March answered. "I set something on for your father in case I didn't get right back." "You wait here, Mother," said, jifty.", Mrs. March waited. It was just twelve o'clock when Trudy came to the door from the kitchen and announced, "You can come now. It's all ready." Mrs. March got up. "Aren't you going to wait for Joe?" "No," Trudy said, too quietly. "Joe isn't coming—not ever." "Well, let's eat, then," Mrs. March suggested briskly, "and we can visit afterward." I could hear the dishes clinking softly from where I sat, and the occasional murmur of their voices, and after a while they came back into the living room. "You're a good housekeeper," Mrs. March observed matter-offactly, "and your house shows it. It keeps you pretty busy, doesn't it?" "Not busy enough," Trudy answered. "It leaves me too much time to think." Trudy "and Pll have it ready in a. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 "Does us all good to think once in awhile," her mother replied. "IT guess that was the trouble," Trudy said quietly. "I was too busy' —outside my house—to think soon enough. Now it's too late." "Thought is never wasted," Mrs. March commented. "We can always use it to good advantage—if not now, at some later time." "T've been very foolish, Mother," Trudy confessed, holding her voice steady. "And now I suppose everything's finished. Joe's been gone nine days." "Do you know where he is?" Mrs. March asked calmly. "No," Trudy replied. "I haven't the faintest idea. I've not been anywhere—and when someone comes I just wait till they go away again." "Perhaps Joe was one,' - her mother said. "No—he has his key," 'Trudy answered. "He could come in. And I look through the glass to see. Except at night. That's how I knew _to let you in. I suppose I shall have to go to the grocer's soon. But I don't want to. I won't go until I just have to." "Tll bring some supplies after dark," said Mrs. March. "Write down what you want. It's better not to go out. The fewer people seen, the less said. And the less said, the less to live down later." "Tf I hadn't gone to the Sapphire Club it wouldn't have happened," Trudy said, and went on to tell her mother about that evening. "We're all just learning," said Mrs. March, when Trudy had finished. "No one knows all the answers. We learn as we go along, just as you're learning now. And THE SEWING KIT SPEAKS that's how we learn to help ourselves later on. Your father can find out where Joe. Is—and ease your mind on that point. But this is something that will have to work itself out in its own way. And it will. You are wise in keeping away from everyone. Let them think you've gone away on a little trip somewhere. Would you like to come home with me for a few days—after dark, of course?" "Oh, no," answered Trudy. "I want to be here—if Joe does come." "That's right," Mrs. March nodded. "I'll bring some groceries then, tonight." | RUDY'S mother stayed until along in the afternoon, and after she had gone Trudy sat down by me and took up her embroidery work. After a while she picked me up and began searching through my contents. As she picked up one button and then another that had come off Joe's clothes, she began to cry. "I should have sewed them right back on," she sobbed forlornly. "He needs them—wherever he is—and they're here where they can't do anyone any good." Mrs. March came back later with _ her arms full of packages. "Joe has an apartment not far from us," she reported, giving 'Trudy the exact address. "Oh, then he's all right," 'Trudy said with relief. A day or two later Trudy sat down beside me and took out all the buttons that belonged on Joe's clothes. She laid them on the little table top, and it was awfully quiet for a long time, while 'Trudy just sat 167 there looking at them. And then, after a time, she sighed, and all of a sudden she put her head down on her arms and cried. I wanted so to comfort her, but if I could have talked I could only have said, "Maybe you could sew them on again..." When the storm had passed Trudy dried her eyes and said, sensibly, "The least I can do is to sew these buttons on where they belong, now. Joe won't ever know how sorry I am about everything—and he won't notice the buttons on again. I'll go while he's at the office so he won't know anything about it." All at once she seemed to have forgotten that she didn't want anyone to see her. The buttons had become more important. She tucked me under her arm and walked across town. The door to Joe's apartment wasn't locked. It was almost like he was hoping she'd come, and Trudy opened the door and went in without having to bother the janitor. Sunlight slanted across the small bed-sitting-room, and Trudy walked over and set me down on the desk. I heard her catch her breath in a small gasp as she looked at the large framed picture of herself that was the only thing adorning the desk. The only thing, that is, beside a tiny scrap of crumpled paper that had been tossed to one side. Trudy picked up the paper and smoothed it out in an absent sort of way. She stood there looking down at the few scribbled words that stared up at her. Words that didn't make sense at all, but were criss-crossed any old way on the paper. There were a_ half-dozen "darlings," interspersed with a few 168 "Trudys," and down at the bottom of the page the heartbroken words "T can't stand it.": Trudy's head came up when she read that. "He doesn' t have to stand anything with me," she whispered fiercely. "I only came to sew on 'some buttons. I won't bother him. He doesn't have to stand me!" I thought, Trudy how can you be so dense? You're supposed to have a brain!: RUDY settled down to work, sewing on buttons here, patching a spot there, darning in another place. The afternoon sped and soon it was almost time for Joe to come home from work—if he came straight home. I was hoping Trudy would forget the time, but she remembered,. And put everything away. She stood by the door and took one last look around the room to be sure that she hadn't left any tell-tale signs of her presence there that day. She had left nothing. Nothing that is, except a few buttons and bits. Of thread, and material applied to the proper unnoticeable places in Joe's wardrobe. There hadn't been any dishes that needed washing. In his tiny microscopic kitchenette. Everything had been shipshape. Joe didn't need a wife, I guess. He was an excellent housekeeper by himself. Trudy closed the door with a tiny click and back we went across town to the little house. Trudy sat down on the couch, with me on her lap, and sobs shook her slender shoulders as she clutched me like I was the only friend she had left on earth. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 But Trudy isn't one to mope. Presently she set me to one side © and dried her eyes. She got up and wandered through the house and ~ back again. She started to look through a magazine, then put it carefully back in its place. "I'll have to get a job," she murmured. "I can't go on like this day after day." She went into the bedroom and came back with a bit of sewing in her hands and sat down again. It was very cozy with her sitting there,. Sewing—except that I knew she missed Joe, and always would. Someone knocked on the door, and there were women's muted voices. Trudy went on calmly sewing, and the ladies at the door went away. The clock went on ticking very faintly, and I looked at it after a while and saw that it was time for 'Trudy to eat her supper. — But she was still sewing, minutes _ later, when a little click came at the door and it opened and Joe came in. He pushed the door shut and didn't even wait to sail his hat onto the exact spot on the couch. In just two steps he was beside Trudy, and had her gathered into his arms —sewing and all. Goodness! You'd think he would be afraid he would get a needle stuck into him—accidentally, of course. I just sat there and beamed at them as he murmured over and over, "Trudy—darling!" And her soft white arms went around his neck, holding him close to her. _ Ah, me! You know, I really enjoy being a sewing kit. But sometimes I wonder—would it be nicer to be a Trudy—or a Joe? The American National Red Cross On Guarp—AT Att Times—AT HoMeE AND ABROAD Information submitted by Pacific Area Office, American National Red Cross THE seventy-year-old history of the American Red Cross is the king-size story of more than five thousand disasters which have at one time or another coil affected virtually every section of our Nation. Last year alone, aid was extended through Red Cross to 223,400 persons who were victims of 390 regional disasters. Red cross relief specialists are... Still handling the rehabilitation of hundreds of damaged homes, farms and businesses on the basis of actual needs... Not by financial loans but by outright money grants... On behalf of the American people. A goal of $85,000,000 has been set to achieve Red Cross objectives for the 1951 fiscal year. - On the nation's civil defense front, the responsibility of Red Cross is a major one since government officials have assigned it the gigantic task of training 20,000,0c0 persons in First Aid. In addition, a quarter-million women will receive training as Nurse's Aids, while another million women will be instructed in Home Nursing. The past year—bringing with it the grim Korean conflict—has seen the rapid stepping-up of Red Cross assistance to servicemen and veterans. Red Cross representatives were dispatched with the first troops sent into Korea. 'They distributed supplies, under battle conditions, and helped maintain GI morale. At scores of veterans' hospitals, Red Cross specialists and trained volunteers have assisted Veterans Administration officials in fulfilling medical, recreational, and welfare duties. Several million more vets have depended upon Red Cross guidance in applying for government benefits. The Armed Forces have asked the Red Cross to use its resources to collect blood to save the lives of battle-wounded servicemen. This assignment is in addition to its normal program of providing the life-giving fluid to hospitals and clinics in areas served by its regional centers here at home. Added to this is the staggering problem of planning for reserves of blood plasma for civilian defense—which also the Red Cross must do. And the organization is playing a vital role in co-ordinating research in the development and production of blood by-products, such as serum albumin and dried plasma. The Secretary of Defense recently said, "We, of the national military establishment, need the work of the Red Cross as we need a strong right arm " Help keep it strong during our national emergency.... Mobilize for Defense by Supporting Your Red Cross 1951 Fund. Page 169 Sixty Years Ago Iixcerpts from the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1891 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" AN OLD BOOK An old torn book, with one pale rose Crushed in its yellow pages: I have not held it in my hand. Nor read it thus for ages. Nay, formerly, the print was good, ' Or else mine eyes were better; For now they're full of tears-—too full To see a single letter. —tLady Lindsay SUFFRAGE: Why are women not as competent to vote as men? 'They are oftener sober. Woman has the early care and training of the child, she plants the first seeds, makes the first and lasting impressions; and the influences that she exerts over the child's mind remain with it to its dying day. It is impossible for man to go very far in advance of woman, or for woman to far surpass man in intellectuality, but the development of the one means the onward march of the other, and a systematic dedevelopment of both, for do they not have the same origin? We cannot impart to others what we do not possess; and when it becomes an acknowledged fact that she is best fitted to perform the duties of a wife and mother, and to have the care and training of the representatives of our future government, who is best informed upon political, civil, religious and domestic affairs, the zenith of woman's glory will have been reached, and great things may be expected from the offspring of such a people. —Lexia Harris A CALL Awaken! Arise! Let thy slumbering heart In the march of Right take a noble part! Thou shalt share the palm by the victor's side, And rejoice with them who for Truth have died. —Ruby Lamont THE MOTHER OF OUR SAVIOR: To contemplate the life and mission of this most noble woman, creates within the mind the deepest, purest reverence and admiration that mortal is capable of feeling for mortal. What an incentive the contemplation of this beautiful character and divine mission should be to every young woman, to guard her purity and virtue with the strictest tenacity, to "magnify the Lord and rejoice in God." —L. L. G. Richards RELEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: 'The second annual conference of the Relief Society will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, in this city, on Tuesday, April 7, 1891. The officers and members of the Relief Society and all those interested in this benevolent work are cordially invited to attend the Conference. —Relief Society Presidency Page 170 RESIDENT and Mrs. David O. McKay, dearly beloved throughout the Church, celebrated their golden wedding on January 2, with a festive dinner with their six children, eight of their sixteen grandchildren, and a few other relatives, numbering altogether about sixty in attendance. 'They were showered with good wishes and remembrances from many friends. Their family life has been gracious, happy, and rewarding. A former educator, Mrs. McKay is talented in music and very much interested in drama. This writer remembers her when, as Emma Rae Riggs, she was an impressive Sunday School teacher to the little girls in the Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake City. We also heard members of the Church in Great Britain comment on the lovely way in which Sister McKay had told inspirational stories at their conferences some years before. HE nine women members of the eighty-second Congress are: Senator Margaret Chase Smith (Maine); Representative guerite S. Church (Illinois); Katherine St. George (New York); Ruth Thompson (Michigan); Frances P. Bolton (Ohio); Reva Beck Bosone (Utah); Cecil M. Harden (Indiana); Edna T°. Kelley (New York); Edith Nourse' Rogers (Massachusetts). MarWoman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MONG the twenty-four Utahns in attendance at the Mid-century White House Conference on Children and Youth was Miss Jennie Campbell, State Director. Of Elementary Education and also president of the Association for Childhood Education, International, an appointment, by the way, which was a signal honor for Miss Campbell, for Utah, and for the West. 'The theme of the conference was: "Let every child be given an equal opportunity to develop the finest personality possible for him." <A spiiit of high enthusiasm was prevalent. IEUTENANT Commander Bernice Walters is the first woman doctor ever assigned to a Navy ship. She is serving on the hospital ship Consolation, destination Korea. Her father says, "I am proud of her. She has always been a humanitarian. Her husband was killed in an aircraft-carrier accident last spring." LIZABETH R. HUNTER MATTHEWS, ninety-nine, the oldest resident in Grantsville, Utah, died recently. N the largest convention of scientists held in America in 1950 one out of every five in the learned group, meeting in New York City, was a woman. Page 17] C—> EDITORIAL = VOL. 38 MARCH 1951 "Tlow, Let Us Rejoice " T the close of the first Relief Society meeting in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, the words of a well-beloved song echoed through the room. Rejoice" was not only the closing song of that meeting, but the words fell as a benediction upon the sisters. 'Truly, they had cause for rejoicing. The desire of their hearts had been accomplished, and they were organized together, that in unison. Their willing hands might help forward the work of the Church and lift the burdens from the poor and the oppressed. It was, as Sarah M. Kimball, who became a member at the first meetting, expressed the events immediately preceding the organization: "It was then suggested that some. Of the neighbors might wish to combine means and efforts... And we decided to invite a few to come and consult with us on the subject of forming a Ladies' Society." > Thus, in the beginning, we see how deeply the spirit of service— united service—touched the hearts of the women of Nauvoo.. They realized a great truth—as individuals we are weak, and the area wherein we may express ourselves is limited; but as an organization we are strong, and our field of personal development and of service to others is. Immeasurably increased. As_ the Prophet Joseph Smith is reported Je to have "isi STE Eh Page 172 sty. Lt, ry) sk oe a 5 tre Aebets —_— io 7 i cid i" a t 'ty « y=;!; o «.? Ee. Ne ae te @ wit Fe J ra wot: ' \ "Now, Let Us never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized." | Even in its beginning, the dual nature of Relief Society became apparent.. It was to be. An organization through which the women of the Church might give abundantly of their time and their means, and their solicitude, and through which they might receive in its fulness the blessed spirit of unity, the faith and prayers, and the kindly. Assistance of their sisters in time of need. The words of the beloved song further express the thought: "No longer as strangers on earth need we roam ' No woman needed to be a stranger, even in a newly restored Church, in a frontier city, when she became a member of a group who made themselves responsible for her welfare, and gave her, at the same time, a scope for the offerings of the love within her own heart and the work her hands might accomplish. Surrounded by love and service of the many, no woman would need to stand alone in doubt, or discouragement, or sorrow, for she would be Soh) bound to all. Lucy Smith, the mother of the Prophet, who rejoiced greatly in the opportunities afforded by the new organization, expressed herself in words that have become a theme for Relief Society activities throughout the succeeding years: This institution is a good one. We must cherish one another, watch over IGION raw A. Ke YA 3 ee od G4 107 EDITORIAL one another, and gain instruction, that we may all sit down in Heaven together. The organization gave to its first members, as it gives to us in our day, the security and the direction of a pattern set forth by the Prophet under divine guidance. In that early day specific details of organization were given, and the duties of Relief. Society outlined in strength and magnitude. The pattern and the service and the strength have continued, and the society has grown in numbers, in its opportunities for giving relief and solace, in its influence, and in the comforting spirit of its unity. Today, one hundred and nine years after that first meeting, Relief q @ 173 Society women number more than one hundred and twenty thousand. Today, in many lands, there is rejoicing, and Relief Society women offer their gratitude to their Heavenly Father, that their activities are directed by an inspired pattern. Though we may be called upon to endure many disappointments, and much loss and sorrow, still there is not one of us who stands alone. Therefore, we are not weak. We are strong in unity and love and faith, and the touching of our hands and hearts wil continue to be a light upon the land and a healing power upon the earth. —V. P. C. G@ #8 Announcing the Special April Short Story Jssue HE April 1951 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four authors being represented, each with an interesting story. Enjoy these stories in April: | "Herman and the Birthday Dinner," by Hazel K. Todd "A Gil's Point of View," by Deone R. Sutherland "Who Laughs Last," by Olive W. Burt "Now Is the Time," by Carol Read Flake o-~<P~< Beyond Shis loment Pansye H. Powell However rich the chords of music are That lift our dreams beyond the farthest star; That match our moods, that lead us on strange trails, And take us where our vagrant fancy sails; However wise the compass of their arc To tell of life and death, of dawn and dark— That power is the best which helps men see Beyond this moment to eternity! Vlo TO THE FIELD Organizations and 'Reorganizations of Tlisston and Stake Relief Societies Since the last report, printed in the March 1950 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, Missions West Central States Stakes East Long Beach East Los Angeles Nyssa Richland University Missions Australian British California Central States Central Pacific East Central States French Hawaiian Mexican Northern States Northwestern States Tongan West German Page 174 to and including December 1950. NEW ORGANIZATIONS Formerly Part of Appointed President Northwestern States, Reta F. Broadbent North Central, and Western States Missions Long Beach Mildred D. Harper Pasadena Ruby G. Choate Weiser Emma Chytraus Union Stake and Northwestern States Lucile J. Erickson 'Mission, Yakima Dist. Emigration Fanny S. Kienitz REORGANIZATIONS Released President: Blanche K. Richmond Gladys S. Boyer Vivian R. McConkie Mary Martha W. Brown Georgia H. Weenig H. Stoddard Jane F _ T. Richards Date of Appointment October 4, 1950 February 27, 1950 February 26, 1950 January 15, 1950 July 18, 1950 March 23, 1950 Appointed President Date of Appoint. Ment Myrtle J. Christensen April 14, 1950 January 11, 1950 August 26, 1950 Annie M. Ellsworth March 20, 1950 '(Combined with Hawaiian Mission FebTuary 3, 1950) Edna H. Matheson Beth C. Woolf Irene P. Clissold Kate B. Mecham Lucy T. Andersen Hilda M. Richards Kate M. Baker Mary H. Smith Mary D. Pierce Elna P. Haymond Georgina F. Richards Evelyn H. Dunn Martha Elnora G. Huntsman Jane B. Wunderlich Mavil A. McMurrin Luella W. Cannon ~ April 29, 1950 March 31, 1950 February 3, 1950 April 12, 1950 January 30, 1950 December 12, 1950 July 6, 1950 October 6, 1950 NOTES TO THE FIELD | 175 Stakes Released President | Appointed President Date of Appoint-, an ment Bannock Eliza B. Chnstensen Edith Hubbard September 10, 1950 Bear Lake Clarissa B. Ward Della R. Hulme June 4, 1950 Big Cottonwood Helen W. Anderson Grace E. Berndt October 7, 1950 Bonneville Florence Cowan Elna P. Haymond _—_ September 10, 1950 Davis Abby W. Webb Edna R. France September 10, 1950 Deseret Maria T, Moody Mary L. Henrie November 26, 1950 Humboldt Jenet S. Clyde Rose Burner January 13, 1950 Juarez Nellie S. Hatch Gladys K. Wagner September 3, 1950 Kolob Zelma P. Beardall Gladys S. Boyer August 20, 1950 Long Beach Frances S. Wilcox _Nina L. Riley March 12, 1950 Los Angeles Dorothy H. Koer Alice A. Call October 15; 1950 Montpelier Louisa Stephens Virginia R. Vaterlaus December 3, 1950 Mount Graham Erma M. Stewart Thelma G. Maloy September 10, 1950 Mount Ogden Adaliene B. Bailey _—_— Belva J. Petersen September 3, 1950 Nevada Koa Taylor Marietta T. Call. | November 26, 1950 Park Ruby S. Karpowitz Naomi W. Seaich May 28, 1950 Pocatello Helga H. Pugmire Helen B. Walker October 8, 1950 Reno Isabel Cooke Lena Oxborrow November 14, 1950 Salt Lake Maude F. Hanks Marjorie M. Ward June 11, 1950 Seattle Vera M. Leishman Birdie S. Bean March 21, 1950 Sharon Ruby S. Hunn Jane B. Larsen June 20, 1950 South Box Elder May L. Jensen Ezma L. Knudson February 12, 1950 South Davis Reva F. Wicker Leila G. Eldredge September 8, 1950 South Salt Lake LauRene K. Lind- —Della D. Walton September 22, 1950 uist South Sevier F loral M. Rasmussen Montez O. ChristianJuly 1, 1950 sen South Sanpete Bell O. Hansen Leona F. Wintch = August 27, 1950 Weber Ada Lindquist Pearl Van Dyke August 2, 1950 Young Harriet D. Foutz Ida L. Allen May 7, 1950 (died April 7, 1950) @ @ G@ #8 Spring House Cleaning Caroline Eyring Miner 7s wind is doing a good job of house cleaning these March days. She is whipping the old dead branches from the trees, blowing the molded leaves into little piles wherever there is some object to catch and hold them. She is drying up the little puddles of muddy water, dusting off the ivy and evergreens after the long winter. We need a spring house cleaning, too. We need to pull out the dead wood of prejudice and self-complacency. We need to gather the scattered leaves of frivolity, selfishness, vanity, insincerity, and self-pity, and burn them. We need to dry up the little puddles of gossip, faultfinding, backbiting. We need to keep verdant the desire in our hearts to grow, and keep growing, as the evergreens do. We need to brighten _ the kind helpfulness that is our better nature. Spring house cleaning is a tedious and painful process sometimes, but it is nevertheless very necessary. Warren Lee FLOWERING CHERRY, UTAH STATE CAPITOL GROUNDS Page 176 Flower Arrangements for Springtime Dorothy J]. Roberts IKE music, flowers speak a universal language. They tell of refinement, gentleness, and love of beauty; of festivity, of trib-. Ute in joy or sorrow. A life is given — or one is taken away, and the eloquence of flowers received, is understood, interpreted in the language of the heart. From their throats come the message of solace, the voice of peace, or the song of spring. Enhanced by harmonious containers and settings, flowers can bring distinction to the plainest surroundings. Let each woman try her hand at more original and gratifying arrangements. Of the growing things at her command. She will develop her personality and delight her family and friends. CONTAINERS Plain containers are best for general use. Ornate vases are hard to harmonize with various flowers and _ backgrounds. Pale, pastel colors, dull greens, blues, and ivories, whites, and browns are good. Use a shallow, oblong bowl for low arrangements, and an urn and a taller bowl or Square type container for taller designs. Wide-mouthed containers are more convenient than narrow-necked ones. But don't be content with only these conventional containers. Have a daring eye, open for anything to fill your need, as plates, platters, vegetable dishes, tureens, bowls, compotes, goblets, chocolate pots, odd bottles, sprinkling cans, or brass, copper, silver, pewter, and wood articles, weathered pieces of wood or tree stumps. Some containers may be painted with oil or water-mixed paints. Willard Luce FLOWER HOLDERS The best for all purposes are the heavy lead-base, needle-point holders in various sizes. Impale the flower stems firmly on the sharp needle points. Use for all shallow containers. Hide them well with petals, blossoms, foliage, pebbles, or rocks. FLORAL CLAY Clay must be kept dry until the arrangement is completed. Put a piece on the bottom of the needle holder, then press firmly to the bottom of the container. This will hold heavy arrangements from falling. Use also on top of the needles to keep small stems in place. Page 177 178 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 W. Atlee Burpee ARRANGEMENT OF ALLDOUBLE PETUNIAS (AMERICA) WIRE IN VASES A strip of chicken wire about two inches wide, crumpled up into tall vases or the necks of narrow-necked jars will hold flowers in place. ROCKS AND PEBBLES Dark, weathered and pitted rocks are useful and ornamental in weighting down a flower holder. Pebbles serve a like purpose. FLORIST WIRE Use to twine around stems and flowers or through stems to shape them. You will need a heavy and a light gauge. ELASTIC BANDS, RAFFIA, -AND STRING Tie small flowers, as pansies and violets, into bunches before arranging. DISCS Circles of plywood, painted to harmonize, and used as a background, will dramatize and add interest to some arrangements, if you do not have copper, brass, silver, or other colored plates on hand. - FIGURINES Colorful or graceful figurines used in the proper place will enhance many arrangements. They should be used only after thought and planning, and placed inside or outside the container. Ducks would be appropriate in or beside low dishes where the water shows. Birds go with boughs or many flower types. Human figures should be used in scale, so neither the figure nor the arrangement dwarfs the other. Line or color in the figurine may be repeated in the arangement. | FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS FOR SPRINGTIME FOLIAGE Develop an open mind toward foliage to use with flowers or alone. Unrelated leaves often lend new grace to a flower. Borrow from weeds, shrubs, ferns, grasses, or potted plants. Combine ivy, trailing to the tablecloth, with stiff flowers. Try all-green arrangements, or one of variegated greens, vegetables not excluded. Remember, Salina said in So Big, "Cabbages are beautiful!" Many leaves can be brightened to a rich sheen with cotton dipped in oil. The delicate young green of boughs "forced" into early bloom is delightful. FLOWERS What a panorama of color and form bursts upon the mind at the word. For the first breath of spring, go outdoors in February or March and prune off a few boughs from any flowering shrub or tree 179 and "force" them into bloom a month early by bringing them into the house and putting them in deep water. They will burst into delicate bloom in a week or two, more or less, and will last as long or longer than those matured in the garden. Their stems, along with all woody stems, should be pounded with a hammer, from the ends up about two to five inches; not enough to break, but just to bruise them. This allows for more absorption of water. Try this on pussy willows, Forsythia, flowering quince, and almond, bridal wreath, apple, currant, pear, jasmine, alder, and honeysuckle. The twigs of plants which bear only leaves are beautiful, too, the horse chestnut, beech, birch, oak, mountain ash, maple, and barberry. Then soon the early spring flowers, hyacinths, pansies, daffodils, tulips, will be out and are effective combined with the blossomed twigs. And don't scorn the dandelion. Pick it with W. Atlee Burpee ' NEW GIANT SWEET PEAS (FRAGRANCE) These blossoms are exceedingly fragrant, large, beautifully ruffled, heavily duplexed, and they grow on long, strong stems. 180 The Hograth Curve, called "The Line of Beauty," is a relaxed "S". Se Blue ducks go with the water which is visible in this flat container, a white bowl, lined in blue, and with spring blossoms set in a needle holder, off center in the dish. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 The triangle, especially the asymetrical triangle, is a form which has been developed into a fine art by the Japanese. To them, the form symbolizes heaven, earth, and man. This container is a piece of weathered wood with spring blossoms and daffodils set in floral clay. The figure of the faun is appropriate here. The "Crescent" is patterned after one of the loveliest forms in nature, the crescent moon. In this design daffodils are combined with pussy willows and Forsythia, bent into shape while the stems were wet and tied with strings until the curves were set. FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS FOR SPRINGTIME tall and short stems and combine it with other flowers. Don't neglect the blossoms of any weed or vegetable as an addition to your arrangement. Their possibilities are suggested in the many illustrated books on the subject. Be daring with color. The daring, dramatic, or stirring, or the restful and cool effects. Flowers should be picked in early morning or late evening, and immediately set in deep containers filled with cold water to "harden" for a few hours, or overnight. All flowers should be treated in this manner; they will last longer and are more manageable for arranging. Clip the stems various lengths for effect as you make the design for your floral arrangement. Select flowers from buds to full bloom for variety. W. Atlee Burpee Make trials for - 181 ARRANGING _ A flower arrangement should be a living picture; having all the elements of a piece of art. Strive for beauty of line and contour in your pieces. Never push all the blooms it will hold into a container. The accompanying illustrations emphasize "'line." These types of lines can be filled in with more flowers and foliage for variety. 'These are some of the more popular types used in modern flower arranging. The better known styles of "mass" arranging are omitted. Join in the pleasure of combining color and line, in flowers, foliage, and containers, with sometimes figurines and other accessories, to make works of art all your own! ARRANGEMENT OF SUNNY MARIGOLDS Growing Pains Dorothy Clapp Robinson KEETS heaved himself up the last two yards to the top of ~ the hill. Safely there he stopped to blow. Bill shifted in the saddle as his glance went swiftly, then carefully, over the pageantry unfolding about him. The undulation of hills, spotted with jack pine and seamed with canyons, moved majestically among shifting cloud curtains. Nothing in sight. He reached for the glasses that hung on his saddle horn and lifted them to his eyes. Still nothing, except those warning curtains. An aching heaviness settled the boy deeper in the saddle. Those colts must be somewhere near. For days he had ridden the lower slopes without a glimpse of them. A cold wind struck his face and his hopes soared. Maybe the wind would drive the clouds away. More likely it would close the curtain completely. Something was haywire for, with this weather, the horses should have been headed for the valley. "Let them go," Jake, Mom's new husband, had said last night. "Colts have wintered out before and, with this spell of weather on the way, you are more likely to run into trouble than horses." "Yes," Mom _ had _— echoed. "They'll come home when they get hungry." Bill hadn't answered that. Mom could sure play dumb sometimes. She knew as well as Bill that there were several reasons why a horse might not come back to the ranch. Every fall Dad had combed these hills for colts and geldings that had summered out., Page 182 "Rings is with them." Mom had blinked hard at that, but almost at once had asked, "How do you know?" "Because I know, and he's the one I'm " "He knows his way around," Jake had interrupted, "and if he doesn't he isn't worth the risk you are taking. There is a bad storm brewing. Don't leave the ranch tomorrow.": "And who are you to be giving me orders?" Bills eyes had demanded, but because of Mom he had kept quiet. He would never forgive Jake for that crack—never. And he would never treat him as a father, even if he was Mom's new husband. Rings was all that Bill had left now that Mom had turned traitor. A year last summer to have seen Rings was to have seen Dad, and the other way about. Why, that horse was practically human. That's why he had run away. Bill might try it himself. He would like to run so fast and so far he would leave behind forever the aching emptiness left by Dad's going. He had thought he was forgetting a little when this situation over Rings had come up. Maybe if he and Rings tried they could find that mysterious place where Dad was. _ Kid stuff! He shook his head to clear his eyes. It didn't do much good. Oh, well, he could baw! All he wanted. 'There was no one to see or care since Mom was so wrapped up in Jake. His mouth tightened stubbornly. After that crack by Jake he would find Rings or die trying. GROWING PAINS Now Bill turned in the saddle and looked back the way he had come. Through a break in the hills he could see the toy buildings that marked the Home Ranch, and back of this last ridge, but out of sight, was the Halfway Ranch. The men there still hadn't gone to the valley for the winter. A stinging wind struck his face. It felt like snow and he'd better get a move on. No one but Dad had ever found his way out of these hills. In a blizzard. Jake had been right about one thing, Rings did know his way around, and that was why he should have been home. And every horse had his blind spot, even Rings. Skeets jumped at an unexpected dig with the spurs and started to run down the short slope. He was still running when the upward slope of another hill slowed him. Again Bill searched the landscape. Skeets grew restless but was held by the pressure of his rider's knees. HE drifting clouds had massed for an attack. The hills were a confusing hotchpotch of dull lights and darker shadows. Back of the hills the mountains thrust their white peaks above the clouds. Bill was alone in a world of silence and space. Why hope to find a horse in this expanse of eternity? With a grunt of despair Bill dropped his glasses, then raised them abruptly. Something had moved, a shadow had emerged from a clump of pines. Bill's heart knocked hard against his ribs. It was a horse. Skeets jumped at his yell of triumph, but headed north by east as the reins directed. The ground was seamed by gulches and 183 stippled with shrubs and boulders, but they pushed relentlessly ahead. It was not far as the crow flies, but Skeets was not a crow. The next time Bill stopped to look he had trouble locating the spot. When his eyes finally caught it he expelled his breath with relief. It was Rings. He could tell by his size and by the way he held his head. There was something so like Dad in the proud free way the horse threw his head. The sight brought back the aching. The colts were there, too, but they were milling around instead of traveling. Bill knew the spot. It was a bare high knob jutting out from a broken point of the mountain. He and Dad had often passed there when they went fishing in Crystal Lake. The knob and Crystal Lake brought fresh memories of Dad and of home that wasn't a home any longer. If only Dad hadn't tried to ride that black bronc. He had. Ridden wilder ones, but this time something had slipped. Later Jake had shot the bronc, but that hadn't brought Dad back. Jake had been foreman of the Home Ranch ever since Bill could remember. He had a place joining on the south, but ever since his wife's death he had lived with the rest of them. Now he was running the Home Ranch and trying to run Bill. Some day Bill would run that ranch himself with no help from anyone—least of all Jake. It took a long half hour to reach the slope opposite the knob. Bill saw at a glance why the colts weren't traveling. There was but. One way down from the knob and that way lead across a steep narrow cut. From there it zigzagged 184 down to meet the forestry road. There was no snow on the bluff, but a blanket of it lay across the gulch. Undoubtedly the horses had taken shelter in the grove of trees during an earlier storm, and when it was over snow blocked their way either up or down. With all their sense, horses were sure dumb about some things. They might break through a fence but they would never cross the snow. "Hi, Rings!". A dark roan, with white rings about his eyes, had been watching their approach. At Bill's greeting _ he came galloping down the short slope, but stopped abruptly at the edge of the snowdrift. He tossed his head and whistled excitedly. Bill swung from the saddle and went to stand opposite him. With reins dangling, Skeets followed. "You are half-starved." HERE was a deep hollow below the horse's hip tibs could be counted at a glance. The colts had taken an even harder beating. A quick look at the trees in the background showed how hungry they were. "Come on, Rings, come on across." Bill took a handful of oats from his pocket and held it out coaxingly. 'The horse sniffed and stepped forward gingerly. Bill held his breath as one powerful foot after another tested the snow. Rings gained confidence, but abruptly one leg sank to the shoulder in snow. Squealing with terror, the horse plunged back to solid footing, nor. Could Bill coax or threaten him into making the attempt again. The yearlings had followed Rings down the slope and, excited by Bill's coaxbone, and his. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951. Ing, they milled about the older horse. _ Hunched so the collar of his sheepskin jacket protected his head, Bill considered. The only way to release these cayuses was to break a trail for them, but it was now or never. If he took time to go for help the storm would block the passes before he could get back. "No horse is worth the risk you are taking," Jake had said. Maybe not. If he had a gun he might shoot them, but now that he was here he wasn't leaving them to starve. From the looks of them, that wouldn't take too long. Tentatively Bill put out a foot to test the snow. There should be a crust from an earlier storm that would hold his weight. The gulch was twenty or thirty yards across, but the snow might vary from six inches to twenty feet in depth. He studied the slope to determine where the gulch might be the shallowest. The colts followed Rings back and forth slowly, as if they had no part in what was going on. Bill started across. He had gone a dozen feet when the crust broke and he was floundering in snow to his armpits. Panic seized him, and he twisted about and fought his way back to solid footing. He stamped hard, beating the snow from his boots and levis. He beat his hands together to warm them. He looked about for help but there was none. There were only the hills and the silence and the storm that was coming his way on the double. A few stinging flakes struck his face and sifted under his collar. "T can't do it." He turned, and Rings, as if sensing his doubt, whinnied softly. Misery clouded the GROWING PAINS boy's eyes. "If I stop to help you out the storm will take you and me, and the colts." Wasn't that what Jake had said? But Jake—with vivid clarity, a memory came to Bill, something out of his life with Dad. The time had been the Fourth of July and the occasion a community rodeo. His Dad had won several events, and Bill had decided he wanted to ride a calf. "No," his father had told him several times, "you will get hurt." No, I won't." "But you will. In five years you may ask me again." But Bill had persisted. "I ride them at home all the time and I want to try." "All right." Dad's mouth had looked grim even to a six-year-old. "You might as well have your lesson right now, but don't expect sympathy.": ILL still remembered the awful sting of the sand as he had plowed face first into it. He had wanted horribly to cry, but he had blinked hard and steeeied away. The next thing he remembered he and Dad had been sitting on high stools sipping ice cream sodas. The cool inside his throat helped a little to make him forget the burn on his face and hands. That night Mom had laid them both out while she was trying to wash the grains of sand from his face. "When a man asks for something," Dad had answered, watching the washing with one eye and his paper with the other, "he has to take what he gets." Okay. He had lived through that, he could live through this— 185 maybe. Skeets could help. Bill uncoiled a rope from his saddle horn and tied the loose end about his waist. If he got in too deep he could climb out hand over hand. "Hold it," he told Skeets. The frozen ground creaked under his boots. Bill studied the slope carefully and chose a spot slightly below where he had tried before. Carefully, tentatively, he pushed one foot ahead of the other. Maybe, just maybe, he would have luck all the way across. Here the blanket might be shallow enough to—the thought ended abruptly, as one leg went through the crust. Once broken, the snow refused to hold him. For a frightening moment he foundered, but gradually his feet packed the snow so he could work forward. He shuffled and stamped, going ahead by falls rather than by steps. In five minutes he had broken into a sweat that chilled instantly when he stopped to rest. The sharp wind, sweeping down from the slopes, picked up and loosened snow and flung it in his eyes and under the cuffs and collar of his jacket. He lost track of time. There was only one thing in the universe, and that was the need for speed. Slowly, slowly, he lessened the distance between him and 'the horses. He reached the part of the snow that should be the deepest. This was where the test would come. If the snow were too deep, his cause was lost. He lurched ahead and was jerked abruptly onto his back. Scrambling frantically to his feet he looked about—he had just come to the end of his rope. | Without hesitation, he took off his gloves and held them under his (Continued on page 210) Be a Guest at Your Own Party Phyllis Snow Home Service Director, Salt Lake City Area, Mountain Fuel Supply Company | OU don't think it can be done? Then you need to try a buffet dinner. Gone are the days when cooks spent hours over the stove and the table groaned under its load of food. Living today is morecasual and informal, and entertaining is simpler. The buffet meal, which enlists the aid of the guests themselves, is a delightful innovation which fits in beautifully and is becoming increasingly a Anyone can entertain with a buffet meal—the older couple now moved from the big family home to a small apartment just big enough for two; the woman who works and can't be home to prepare a big dinner; the woman with small children and a big house to keep up; the man or girl living i in one room, and who must serve from a small table; and even the newly marrieds on a "two can live as cheaply as one" budget.. The menu may be merely a cheese tray with crackers and fruit, or as much as a two course dinner. Seldom is it more complicated, In any case it should be possible to do the preparation in advance. With last minute dashing practically eliminated, you can be a guest at your own party. Plates, napkins, silver, and food are arranged attractively and conveniently on the buffet table, and guests serve themselves. 'Though they may balance their filled plates on their laps during the meal, it is, of course, more convenient if trays or small tables are provided. There are many kinds of buffet meals, and therefore no one set of directions is possible. The size of your apartment or house, the facilities of your kitchen or kitchenette, whether you have a garden, terrace, porch, or barbecue pit, your own personality, and that of your proposed guests, your financial situation, the time of day, and many other things will influence your plans. Do, however: 1. Invite only the number of guests you can' handle conveniently. 2. Select a menu that can be prepared before serving time, and which will not become unappetizing if allowed to stand. 3. Avoid too much food. Quality, not quantile is the important eine: and. The food need not be expensive to be delicious. A casserole may be just as tempting and good as a ham or turkey, if it is properly prepared and attractively served. 4. Try out any new dishes on the family the week before the party. 5. Serve hot foods hot and cold foods cold. 6. Arrange the table and its Si aga, SO ge traffic to the buffet does not interfere with that leaving it. | 7. Plan your party carefully and organize the preparation so as to conserve your energies and sunny disposition and enable you to enjoy your guests, not just be thankful when it is time for 'them to. Go. - 8. Plan so that the conclusion of your buffet will go as smoothly as the beginning. Page 186 BE A GUEST AT YOUR OWN PARTY 187 g. If necessary enlist the aid of one or two close friends to help with the serving. 10. Be nonchalant whatever happens—never make a party seem a task. Avoid any sign of fidgeting or hurrying on your part. Remember, delicious food, attractively arranged conveys the wish of the poised, relaxed hostess. ''Accept this hospitality that comes from my heart and share with me the best I have to offer." Here is a sample of how we organized one buffet dinner. By following a similar plan you can easily fit buffet entertaining into your own schedule. It is not always necessary to write out plans in this much detail, but it is necessary to think them through completely. MENU Spizzerinktum (Served by host or a friend as guests arrive) Salmon Delmonico in a Rice Ring Peas Orange-Grapefruit Salad Poppy Seed Dressing Relish Trays Bran Rolls Almond Torte Hot Spiced Grape Juice Hal Rumel TABLE SET FOR BUFFET DINNER 8 000° RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 Put the empty serving dishes and serving silver where they will go when the food is served. This is a grand way to see the picture your table will make for the guests. When the picture satisfies you, stack the serving dishes ready for use in the kitchen.. Remember to arrange dishes in a consistent fashion so that the food is put on the plate in the order of its importance. Beverages should come last. Napkins and silver are secured after the food has all been served. _ Don't forget salt and pepper shakers somewhere on the buffet, for some tastes call for extra seasoning. Guests may not want to ask for them if they are not in sight. A pitcher of water and glasses should also be handy. Be as conventional or different as _ you please in decorating your buffet. Hothouse flowers in a lovely bowl may be centered on the table. Or push the table against the wall and arrange greens, autumn leaves, pine cones, and harvest vegetables, or fruit in a wide basket at one end away from the service of food. Keynote the setting with the occasion: a country supper is amusing if a row of geraniums, in freshly painted white pots borders the table where it has been pushed against a brick or summerhouse wall. | Candlelight, for a town apartment or. A winter night in the country, brings out the best in everybody. But do have enough candles. Arrange a tray of dessert china and silver and leave in the kitchen. Arrange trays for passing Spizzerinktum. Following are the recipes we used. As you see, thorough advance planning and preparation eliminate guesswork and ' worry and make a buffet dinner one of the most pleasant ways of entertaining for hostess and guest alike. RECIPES — SPIZZERINKTUM 1. Beat until thick and lemon colored -.-+--+- 2 eggs A c. Sugar. % tsp. Salt 2.. Blend im 022 eeeeee eee eon..__ ae Juice of three oranges: 2 c. Cranberry juice Juice of one lemon 3. Pour over cracked ice in glasses Yield: 6 glasses SatmMon Detmontco In A Rice RING 1. Melt in a saucepan - 20.2.20-2 teeters 4 C. Butter 2. Blemd ind -20u eee eeeeeececeeeeeeeeeteceeeeteceeeeseee % c. Flour | "A tsp. Salt ' tsp. Pepper 3. Add gradually while stirring constantly - 2c. Milk 4. Stir and cook until smooth and thickened (about 4 minutes), | | 5- Pour hot mixture on SA ncno-one 1 egg yolk, slightly beaten. 6. Cook over low heat about 1 minute, | 7» Add and mix well 2.2.2. Ecccseeseeessseecseeneneeseeneeees 1 1-Ib. Can red salmon, drained and flaked 1 4-02. Can sliced mushrooms, - drained BE A GUEST AT YOUR OWN PARTY | ee 7 189 Rice RING Temperature: 400°; Time: 45 min. If chilled prior to baking, 30 min. If hot when ready to bake.: 1. Wash thoroughly in several waters --..---- 2 ¢. Rice 2. Drain 3- Slowly drop rice into «2.2 tee teeeeseee ee eeeeeeeee eee 5 cc. Boiling water Make sure that the boiling fies not stop. 1 'tsp. Salt 4. Cover and simmer 25 minutes. Do not stir. _ 5- When rice is soft but firm, drain in a colamalsr, but do not rinse. 6. Add and mix well -.2.2 2.2..:.22eeeeceee eee eee eeeeee 26 c. Minced parsley 6 tbsp. Melted butter 7. Press into a well-greased 8-inch nng mold. 8. Set mold into a pan of hot water. G. Bake o. Remove from oven, invert on a serving plate, and fill center with Salmon Delmonico. 11. Surround mold with anaesbuttered peas Yield: 6-8 servings RELIsH TRAY Carrot curls: Wash and scrape tender young carrots, cut into paper thin slices. Lengthwise with a vegetable peeler, roll tightly and fasten with toothpicks. Crisp in ice water. Remove toothpicks before serving. Stuffed celery: Stuff small sticks of celery with softened pauls cheese. Garnish with aioe nuts or paprika. Olives and pickles: Choose very large (colossal is a good size) stuffed green and ripe olives. Small gherkins go well with this. ORANGE-GRAPEFRUIT SALAD 1. Using a sharp knife, peel as though paring an 0) || 2 Texas pink grapefruit 3 medium oranges (Remove narrow strips of peel and use a sawing motion with the knife, not a pushing motion. Be sure all white membrane is removed as you go.) N. Remove pulp by sections, cutting away from tough portion, first on one side of section, then on other. 3. Chill thoroughly. 4. ATTAMge lM 0 eee cece eee eect ee eee ee leceeeeneeneelettuce cups §. Garnish with 2.2.22e-eeee eee eee ee eee eee eeeeeceeceeneee pomegranate seeds CR | | arepoppy seed dressing Yield: 6 servings Poppy SEED DRESSING 1. Mix together - 0 2 --.-cececteeecicceeeeeeeeeeaes 1 ¢, sugar %, tbsp. Flour " "4 tsp. Mustard 1 tbsp. Paprika 2. Add, and cook 2 minutes 2.200.002. 2 ©. Vinegar 3: Cool 7 || 2% tsp. Onion juice ® 190 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 5. Beat in slowly 2 -.-..---c-ecceeee->. =a salad oil CT 6 V< (¢ (aa 1 tsp. Poppy seed Note: Celery seed may be substituted for the poppy seed. This is particularly good on fruit salads, especially grapefruit and avocado or grapefruit and orange. Bran ROLLS Temperature 400°; Time: 12 to 15 minutes 1. Mix in large mixing bowl ----o-+- a 1 c. Bran "% c. Mashed potatoes "2 ¢. Lard or butter % c. Sugar i | anne 2c. Scalded milk 3. Cool until tepid TS) 6 | 1 cake compressed yeast in | "2 ¢. Lukewarm water 5. Add to milk mixture. 6. AGM..-.--n-n-----JEgB Eee some ----soUlitens. O=----0 <A ae 2 beaten eggs 7. Sift together and add -.-.-------.----eeeeeeeeeeeeees 2 c. Sifted flour 2 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Baking powder "2 tsp. Soda 8. Beat thoroughly g. Gradually add enough more flour to make a doueay (about 4-6 ¢c.).., 10. Knead 2 minutes. 11. Grease top of dough. Cover tightly and place in aineeetor over aight. (May: be _ stored in refrigerator 4 to 5 days before using. ) 12. Shape and place in pans about two hours before baking, Yield: 4 dozen rolls. ALMOND TORTE 1. Cream until soft and pliable - 2.220222---..00---- "2 ¢. Soft butter TIN 0) 6 i | 0 ree "2 C. Sugar 3. Beat in one at a time © eee 4 egg yolks 4. Sift together 3 times — 1..0..2.2..2ee eet lc. Sifted cake flour "4 tsp. Salt 1% tsp. Baking powder 5. Add dry ingredients alternately by thirds with 5 _ tbsp. Milk (Use a stroke count of 50, 50, 125.) 6. Spread the thick batter evenly in 2 well-greased, 8-inch layer tins. 7. Beat until stiff 2.222. 4 egg whites 8. Beat in, 2 tbsp. At a time - se lc. Sugar Pe Ilene ENNIO 1 tsp. Vanilla, dash salt 10. Spread over batter, sealing to pan sides. | | 11. Sprinkle with - -.-.-:.-: cscccececeeeeeeceeeeeeereeeeeeeeneeeees 36 c. Blanched almonds, shredded, 12. Bake. Temperature 325°; Time: 30 Minutes 13. Cool. 14. WHIP - 22..----c-ceecteseeeececeeeeeens ———__ a lc. Heavy cream ve 0) Ce 6 ee 2 tbsp. Sugar " tsp. Vanilla 16. Put torte together with cake surfaces in the middle and the sweetened, whipped cream between. (The meringue will be on the bottom of the torte and also on the top.) | BE A GUEST AT YOUR OWN PARTY 17. Chill thoroughly. Yield: I cake Hor Spicep GRAPE JUICE MMS 211 OY ——ccces 22. -220200--aenernceneen-->-- 2. Add tO..-ccccceccoeeecececeeceeeeeeeceeeeeneeeeeeeeteeeee a. Simmer 5 minutes 4. Add and reheat to boiling - -.. 5. Serve hot. Q @ 191 a'..1 tbsp. Whole cloves 2 ~~ sticks cinnamon wanecannna@ifiiies= 2 c. Water ececseeeseeennees 1 qt. Grape juice % C. Orange juice ' ¢. Lemon juice q q Shree Hobbies Maria C. Hardy of Colonia Dublan, Mexico, Is Skilled in Netting, Cake Making, and Modeling Figurines Maria C. Hardy, seventy years old, a Relief Society visiting teacher, a practical nurse, and a homemaker, has still found time and energy for the development and perfecting of three unusual hobbies: netting, cake making, and modeling figurines. The exquisite tablecloth, shown in the picture, is sixty-four inches wide and seventy-two inches long, and was made in two years. Sister Hardy also crochets and embroiders, making many unusual and beautifully designed articles. In cake making Sister Hardy specializes in wedding cakes, which she decorates with a mixture of powdered sugar, egg whites, and cream of tartar, or lemon juice. Her favorite motifs for decoration are the bride and groom, roses, hearts, lattice work, and forget-me-nots. The bride and groom for the wedding cake are made from granulated sugar poured into molds which were purchased in Mexico City. The center figure in the lower right-hand corner is a representation of a young woman in a fancy dress, and the right-hand figurine is a bust made for a birthday cake. In her work as obstetrical nurse, Maria Hardy has delivered 705 babies, and is well-known and well-loved in her comMARIA C. HARDY munity for the service she renders to all who are ill or in trouble. —Gladys K. Wagner For the Strength of the Hills | —— Synopsis: Camilla Fenton, an orphan who lives with an aunt in Santa Monica, California, arrives at the railroad station near Crandall, Idaho, where she is employed as the new schoolteacher. Stanley Rodgers, a farmer, takes her in his jeep to the home of Mrs. Whipple, a widow who takes boarders. Camilla finds out that Stanley is unmarried and that he is going out with Marcia Ellertson. At a dance, Stan dances with her. |: HE first week of school passed somehow, much to Camilla's surprise. 'Twenty-five students in four different grades, she decided, was something only a paragon should be required to cope with, and she readily admitted to herself that she was far from being a paragon—as far as schogieesouing was concerned, anyway. At any rate I have today aud tomorrow in which to catch my breath, she thought gratefully as she ate breakfast on Saturday morning. By noon she had not only caught her breath but had become thoroughly bored even with reading and letter writing. "Tll go sketching," she announced, with sudden inspiration. "Tt would be a shame to waste this lovely day indoors." She dug out paper and crayons, put on a woolen suit and Oxfords, and started out for the foothills, where the yellow aspens were interspersed with clumps of crimson scrub oak and maple. - There was absolutely no reason, she told herself, why she shouldn't go by way of the Rodgers farm. The Page 192 it could road there was as good as any, probably better. The view from the hill would also be as good, or better than any. There were men working out in the fields when she passed, but at such a distance she couldn't tell one from another. Her boredom of the morning vanished, and she felt happy all through. The contrast of the © purple sage and yellow aspens was fascinating, and she sketched with the most genuine pleasure she had felt in months. It is absurd, she told herself, to spend all of one's life in the same place. Maybe next year I'll go to Alaska or Canada, well, Puget Sound, anyway. Her pleasant daydreaming was interrupted by a faint rustle, and she looked up to see a grayish brown animal watching her from a short distance away. For a moment she sat paralyzed with fright. She supposed it was a coyote—it just couldn't be a wolf—and people said that coyotes weren't dangerous. But probably tell that she was scared to death and would come right at her. She knew that the proper thing to do would be to stand her ground and act defiant, but she couldn't. Picking up her things, she fled down the hillside as fast as she could go, not even looking behind to see if the beast was following her. Even when she had reached the edge of. The Rodgers farm she couldn't slow down, although she FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS was so weak from fright that she all but dropped in the road. She had another fright when Stan popped up from behind a clump of bushes and called, "What's your hurry, lady? Going to catch a train?" "No," she replied, her fright melting away, "but I'd like to, at the moment. I went up on the hill to sketch, and I was surrounded by wild beasts." "You don't say!" he drawled. "How many and what species?" "Only one, that I actually saw," she admitted. "But I'm sure that he had a whole pack right behind him." "Cougar?" he asked. She was tempted to let it 20 at that, but, after a moment's pause, confessed, '""No, it was a coyote, I think, although it might have been a wolf." "There aren't any wolves around here," he scoffed, "and I didn't think that a big girl like you would be afraid of a coyote. All you'd have to do is throw one rock and he'd hightail it for the peaks so fast you couldn't see him for dust." "Well, I didn't happen to know that, so I did the hightailing instead." He grinned tolerantly and offered, "Wait until I get the jeep and I'll run you down." She accepted his offer gratefully, for the hills were much farther away than they had looked, and the run had tired her considerably. When they stopped in front of Mrs. Whipple's house he produced a pair of apples from somewhere and handed her one, which she sat munching with a curious sense of 193 elation. At the moment she could think of no pastime more desirable than sitting in a jeep and. Eating apples. "Would you like to go to a barn dance tonight?" he asked, throwing his core across the road. "A real barn dance! Oh, I'd love it!' she exclaimed, her eyes glowing.: "Okay. Ill pick you up about eight—if I can get the chores done by then. And listen," he cautioned, "don't let on to anyone else that you ran away from a poor little old coyote." HE laughed as he helped her out and ran up the path to the house. A barn dance! It would be lots of fun. What should she wear? A cotton print, probably. She had a very nice paisley print with a wide skirt. | She put away her drawing materials and brought out the dress to give it a pressing. She really would have liked to check with Mrs. Whipple to be sure that it was appropriate, but her landlady had gone into town, as the next place was known, and had left supper out on the table. ) It won't matter anyway, she thought. People wear prints everywhere now. I can't go wrong. She tied a yellow ribbon around her auburn curls and waited impatiently for Stan to come. "The chores!'' She grumbled as the clock hands moved around to eighty-thirty. "What a country. Even a Saturday night date has to wait on the chores." He came whistling up the walk and made no apologies when she opened the door. Instead, he 194 handed her a white kitten and said amiably, ""Here's something to take the place of your beau back home." "Thanks very much," she said. "It won't be quite the same, but it will help." She held it up to her cheek as she added, "It really is sweet. I had a kitten once long before, before—" she stopped. It was hard to explain Aunt Lillian, who believed in so few of the things that Camilla herself believed in. She set the kitten on the floor and asked, "Do I look all right? I mean—the other girls will be wearing dresses, won't they?" "To a barn dance? You're all tight. You look good enough to eat." | "That should be good enough," she smiled. A few minutes later when: they arrived at the dance she saw that her outfit was definitely not all right. She was the only girl there not wearing a pair of levis, and she was very much afraid they would think she was acting "high hat." She was almost sure that there was a noticeable coolness towards her, although she couldn't determine whether it was due to her clothes or the fact that she had taken Stan away from a local girl. She did her very best to be friendly with everyone and had a good time in spite of the undercurrent of disapproval. It was impossible not to have a good time with Stan, she decided. | The thought crossed her mind that perhaps it was just because she was away from home that he seemed so fascinating and that it might be different in her familiar background. Then she remembered _ buy. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 that Boyd had seemed uninteresting for the very same reason and that she had hoped to make up her mind by going away. What kind of a mugwump was she, anyway, she asked herself? Did she have to get her friends against a particular background to know what kind of feelings she had towards them? She had no answer. All she knew was that she enjoyed every minute of the time she spent with Stan. "THE first real snowstorm of the winter came early in December and she donned the galoshes that Mrs. Whipple had warned her to She hadn't dreamed that the © mere matter of keeping warm could be such a problem. At Mrs. Whipple's the only heat came from the kitchen range and a heatrola in the front room, while at school there was only a stove in the middle of the room that roasted one side while the other practically froze. She was sitting at her desk one Friday afternoon correcting papers when she happened to glance up and see little Aline Wakely still in her seat. "Why didn't you go in the school bus?" she asked., "Daddy said that he might come into town and that if he did he would pick me up." "Oh, dear, you shouldn't have waited," said Camilla, very much disturbed. "I'm ready to go home now, and I can't leave you here. I suppose that I had best walk down the road with you until we meet him." | They put on their wraps and hurried out. As they started down the road Camilla called to one of the FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS school children, "Will you please go over and tell Mrs. Whipple that ''m walking home with Aline Wakely. I'll get back as soon as I can." She was hopeful that she wouldn't have to go any great distance, for Mr. Wakely surely was on the way. She noticed the clouds were getting very dark and the wind was beginning to rise. It might even storm before she got back, she worried. Be awfully lucky if it didn't. She really shouldn't have let herself in for this, she reasoned, now that it was too late to turn back. She should have insisted that the child come home with her. She had just about given up hope now that Mr. Wakely would meet them. If he had been coming into town, he would have come long before this. They tramped along, the wind whipping against them, and at last Aline said, ""That's our house over there." "Then I'll stand here and watch until you reach the door," said Camilla. "In that way [PIl know that you are getting home ll right." 'There was no need, she told herself, to struggle through any more of that snow than she had to. Aline left, and Camilla waited impatiently, thumping her cold feet one against the other to try to work up the circulation. When the child had reached the house and disappeared inside, she turned to go back down the road. The snowflakes were beginning to fall now, and the wind was rising. She would have to hurry or she might be in for a serious time. In fact, she'd | 195 She couldn't get caught in a storm out here. It was all of a mile to the house—maybe more. It certainly seemed like more. In a few minutes the storm broke in earnest, and she couldn't even see the farmhouses along the way, otherwise she would have turned into one of them and phoned for help or asked someone to take her on home. THE wind had risen now so that the snow stung her face and drifted about her feet. Why hadn't someone warned her, she thought bitterly, what a terrible thing a blizzard could be? But then, who would ever have supposed that she would take off into one by herself? Oh, to be back in California where, in spite of earthquakes or floods, you could always see where you were going! At this very moment her aunt might be sitting out on the patio enjoying the sunshine. Boyd might be driving along the ocean front, without a coat, and with the top of his convertible rolled down, while she was stumbling along in a blinding snowstorm. Once she fell and had to force herself to get back on her feet again. She had a feeling that if it happened once more she wouldn't be able to get up. She was so weary from struggling against the wind and drifting snow that she could hardly push one foot in front of the other. I can't possibly drag myself all the way back, she thought. I might just as well give up now. But she found that she couldn't give up—that she had to fight on as long as she had an ounce of energy left. Another gust of snow-laden wind hit her with such force that 196 she cried out and thought that she must have been imagining when she heard Stan's voice call, "Camilla!_ Where are you?" "Here! Here!" she cried, sinking down into the snow, now that she no longer had to rely on her own efforts. The next minute his arms were around her, and he was helping her into the jeep. "What in the world were you thinking of to go out in this storm?" he scolded as he wrapped blankets around her. "I never saw anyone so crazy. You're scared of a coyote, but you tackle a blizzard." The scolding was too much for Camilla, on top of everything else, and she started to cry. "I'm sorry, honey," he said, taking her in his arms. "It's just because I was nearly crazy cole When Mrs. Whipple phoned that you had gone to take that kid home in this storm I was scared to death." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 He tucked the blankets more closely around her and started up the jeep. Camilla sat in a daze. I can't be in love, she thought. I can't be tingling with joy at the thought of spending my life in a place like this. It must be that I'm only halfconscious. But, in spite of her bewildered questioning, the fact remained that nothing in her whole life before had ever stirred her as his words had done., They were at the house in a few | minutes, where Mrs. Whipple was waiting anxiously with hot water bottles, hot broth, and everything else that she had been able to lay her hands on. Stan stayed just long enough to see that she was going to be all right, but before he left he took her hand for a moment and whispered, "T told you that we always keep the red-headed ones." | (To be continued) Jo a Fountain Dana Benson I stood and watched a fountain playing in the square, A shining jet of silver bursting through the air. Here was a living, leaping thing, a laughing spray - Of singing water gleaming in the sunless day. I wished poetic thoughts could come like this to me, A freshly springing fountain flowing strong and free To force the inward joy that nothing could suppress— In spite of fogs that come and dim real happiness. Play on, gay fountain, let the world go roaring by And fling your message like a challenge to the sky. Lift up your argent voice above the busy town, And let your misty joys bring sorrows tumbling down. Soup INlakes the Ileal Sara Mills A French politician once urged that before a woman be allowed to marry she should first learn how to make soup. That was nearly two hundred years ago, and no law came from his efforts. But today there are still men who wish he had succeeded. Good soup nourishes not only the body but the heart of man. It can soothe him when he is worried and bolster his courage when the day is dark and the world is gray. Soup is necessary in summer as well as in winter. It can be an appetizer to a meal or the meal itself. The woman who serves an inspired soup is forgiven if the roast is burned or the pie crust soggy.: For purposes of brevity, we may discuss three kinds of soup: (1) thin clear soups to stimulate the appetite—consomme, bouillon, broth; (2) hearty soups—thick vegetable soups, chowders, pepper pot, and minestrone; (3) cream soups, thin or light. All meat soups have stock for a base. Master the art of stock making, and you are well on the way. Fresh, uncooked meat, aided by cracked bones, is the best source. The bones are important because they provide nourishment and flavor. The jelly-like content of cold stock will tell you if you have enough of the bone substance. Of all the soup meats, the shin is the most popular. The neck takes longer cooking, but its soup has more flavor and strength. A veal knuckle is a good choice to go with the shin or neck. You may instead use chicken or turkey bones, or the bones of wild game birds if you are lucky enough to have them. Now for the cooking technique. Soup meat should always be put to cook in cold water and allowed to simmer slowly until the meat is tender. You may even allow the cold water to stand over the meat for an hour before cooking. 'The cooking stock should never be boiled fast. If more water is needed, add it boiling to retain the flavor. And underline this last, please: If you want brown stock, sear the meat and bones in their own fat before cooking. When the stock is made, you have your base. For a light or hearty soup. Remember, the stock can be stored in the refrigerator for several days. Stock kept over a day is best sealed with its own fat, to be removed before reheating. CLEAR BEEF SOUP For each one and one-half pounds of beef, use one pound of bone and one quart of cold water, and about one-half teaspoon of salt for each quart of water. Wash the meat and bones in cold water and place in a soup kettle. Add cold water and salt. Bring to a gradual boil and let boil gently for a few minutes while the scum is carefully removed. When the scum is gone add the following vegetables (amounts are for each two quarts of water used): scraped carrot cut in several pieces small white turnip pared and quartered large onion, peeled and studded with 2 whole cloves thin slice of garlic piece of parsnip the size of a walnut, pared and cut in several pieces 1 Stalk of celery cut into inch pieces ep Page 197 198,, - - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 bay leaf dozen sprigs of fresh parsley sprig of thyme leek 8 peppercorns, gently crushed (Tie bay leaf, parsley, thyme, and leek together with white thread) ae ae ee) Bring the stock and vegetables to a boil and let simmer until the meat is tender. To serve, strain the hot soup, season to taste, and serve. If you wish a clear consomme, let cool and remove the cake of fat. If you wish a vegetable soup, add vegetables finely cut to the hot stock, and let boil gently until the vegetables are just tender. You may also add tomatoes, solid or juice, and any or a number of the soup pastes or rice, and cook until done. Serve with a handful of finely chopped parsley on top and grated Parmesan cheese, along with oven-toasted, buttered French bread. MINESTRONE Minestrone is to me the soup of soups. I waited years for a certain wandering gentleman who promised that he would someday come to our home to make minestrone for us. The recipe that follows is my version of his method. Minestrone should use only young and tender vegetables. It must be thick with them, and don't serve it unless you have freshly grated Parmesan cheese.. Bring two quarts of the beef stock made by the above recipe to a boil and add: several strips of salt pork (about % Ib.) lc. Cooked chick peas lc. Fresh kidney beans (cooked dried ones may be substituted ) 2 stalks celery, scraped and cut fine 1 C. Mew peas 1% c. Shredded cabbage lc. Shredded spinach (chard for second choice). ¥% c. Diced carrots | 2 or 3 peeled fresh tomatoes chopped (juice to taste may be substituted ) " ¢. Uncooked white rice salt, pepper, a sprig of sage 1 ~ ¢. Sliced potatoes may be used. Simmer until the vegetables are tender, taste for seasoning, and add enough hot stock to thin the soup to your liking. 4 ONION SOUP FROM BROWN STOCK This is a soup for soup lovers and is served as an appetizer. For each four persons to be served, use one pound of lean chuck or boiling meat (cut into inch cubes). Brown the cubes in beef fat, add five cups cold water, bring to a boil, add the salt, and. Let simmer until the meat is tender. For each four persons use: good sized red onions - _ butter 1 level tbsp. Flour: salt and pepper Peel and slice onions and brown in butter until the onions are a delicate brown and tender. Add flour and stir until the flour has been absorbed and lightly browned. To the boiling stock add the onions and boil gently for thirty-five minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper. — To serve, pour the soup into a large oven-proof serving dish, top with slices of buttered toast on which have been placed slices of Swiss or Parmesan cheese. Slide the dish into the oven and leave until the cheese is melted. Serve at once in the same dish. Anniversary Alms _ Mildred R. Stutz married fifteen years and had five children. It isn't easy to save money for such things as anniversary gifts, with tonsilectomies and haircuts and new shoes to worry about. But Melissa had done it. She had saved twenty dollars! Twenty dollars shaved off the grocery bill, from tinting and mending the upstairs curtains, and from giving herself a home permanent. Dan was to have a sports coat. For fifteen years Melissa had seen Dan attend every high-school football game of the season looking overdressed and uncomfortable in his business suit. 'This year things would be different. Dan would have a smart, brand new sports coat. Melissa spoke to herself as she went about her kitchen, "There's ~ a sale on at Mercers, I'll go there and—no, I won't either. [Il go to Taylors. 'Their things are just a little nicer than Mercers'. I'll buy Dan a coat he can really be proud of. After the children have their lunch and go back to school, ll take little Davey and we'll go shopping. How would you like that, Davey?" she asked, turning to her three-year-old son who had entered the kitchen and was standing quietly beside the screened door. For a moment he returned her smile and then guiltily followed her eyes to his muddy shoes. "Oh, David," Melissa moaned, "you've been playing in the water again, and I've told you over and over to stay out of it." She knelt Mss and Dan had been them less than two weeks. On the floor and examined the little shoes, and David, having received his punishment, promptly started pulling bobby pins from his mother's hair. "Just look at your shoes," Melissa continued, "the soles are completely worn through, and you've worn David, I ought to spank you for this." Melissa arose, returned the bobby pins to her hair, and Davey scampered out of doors, the scolding forgotten. Melissa continued to herself as she went about the kitchen, "Maybe, if I can get Dan a coat for sixteen dollars, Pll have enough left to buy David a pair of shoes. I hate to do it, but he can't go barefoot and. The budget is already stretched to the bursting point." She finished the dishes thoughtfully and then, smiling to herself, said optimistically, "Well, Pll go to the sale at Mercers. 'They have good merchandise, too." HE finished her kitchen work and started lunch, 'then she sudsed out her hose and Bonnie's white sweater so David could wear it that afternoon to go uptown. She was hanging it to dry when the telephone rang. She glanced anxiously at lunch simmering on the stove and hurried to answer. "Hello—oh, hello, Edith. No, I'm not busy. How are you anyway? I haven't seen you since our last meeting." Melissa listened for a moment and a smile crept across her face. "Edith, that's wonderful," she exclaimed, "I'm so happy for Page 199 200 you! It will be so much company for you with Jim gone so much and the older ones in school. Believe me, I enjoy Davey no end. How are you feeling?" Melissa glanced toward the kitchen. It was wonderful, of course, but lunch was beginning to scorch. "Look, Edie," she cut in, "why don't you drop in some afternoon and we'll have a real visit?... Oh, yes, the Children's Hospital fund. I'll pay you next time I see you," she promised vague- --ly "Oh, I don't blame you for wanting to wind everything up, but Edith, you mean that I'm the only one who hasn't paid? I'm so sorty. How much did we decide to donate? Five dollars? [ll stop in this afternoon and pay you. Bye." Back in the kitchen she rescued lunch from a fiery doom and proceeded to set the table. The dickens with the money! ELISSA murmured again to herself as she went about her kitchen, "Twenty dollars, minus four for shoes, and five for the hospital leaves... Eleven dollars for Dan's sport coat. I can't even look at one for that price." She finished setting the table thoughtfully and then, smiling triumphantly, decided, "I know what Pil do. Ill go to a secondhand store! You can buy anything for a song at one of those places. It's a beautiful idea and Dan can still have his sports coat!" The front door closed quietly, and Melissa's fourteen-year-old daughter, Helen, came in. She was a tall; thin girl, immature for her age and very sensitive. Melissa had lengthened her skirt by adding a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 tuffle at the bottom, but nothing could be done about her coat, which stopped far above her knees, and whose cuffs failed to cover her bony wrists. "Hello, Helen, you're a little early, aren't you?" greeted Melissa. "Hello, Mother." The girl stood awkwardly for a moment as if summoning courage for a plunge. "Mother," she began again and then, taking a deep breath, continued, "Mother, can't I. Possibly have a new coat?" Melissa cringed inwardly. "Darling, you know I'd get you a new coat today if I had the money." ~ "But, Mother, couldn't you borrow from the grocery money or something? 'There's a sale at Mercers Ada got one for only twelve | and a 'half and.. Oh, Mon, it's just awful to be gawky." Melissa refused to meet the | pleading look in her daughter's eyes. "Helen," she said firmly, "you're not gawky. You're a very lovely little girl, As for the coat, Dear, I'll definitely get one for you before Christmas. Maybe, if all goes well, you can have it before _ Thanksgiving. But nght now, I just don't have the money. You understand don't you, Darling?" "Yes, Mother, I guess so." 'The child turned away, and Melissa knew she was hiding tears. Her thin little shoulders slumped in defeat, and the ugly old coat strained across them. Melissa braced herself. GHE thought, what fun would Dan have wearing a new sports coat when his daughter was eating her heart out? Weakly she started ANNIVERSARY ALMS to speak, "Helen," then paused and said decisively, "Helen, come here. I have an idea. I've got eleven dollars. I've saved it for an anniversary gift for your father. But we'll take this eleven dollars and borrow a dollar and a half from the grocery money, and we'll go to Mercers after school and buy you a new coat!" Tears of joy rose in Helen's eyes and ran down her thin little cheeks. "Oh, Mother, I couldn't take your money.... I just couldn't! There's a darling gray coat there's a blue one I like, too. Oh, 201 Mom, you're so swell! I know we can get a beautiful coat for twelve fifty." "Tm sure we can, too, Dear," smiled Melissa. Melissa said to herself, as she cleared away the lunch dishes, "I know what I'll do. [Il make him a cake. It will be a chocolate cake with nuts on top. I'll get some ice cream and invite the Bradys and Cromwells in for the evening. Dan seemed to thoroughly enjoy himself last year. But next year Dan will definitely get his sports coat," said Melissa. O-<iP-2— A Square of Grass Ida L. Belnap A place where friendly folks, Sit at the close of day And watch the ebbing hues That leap from the sun's last ray. A master artist mixed The colors of richest dye, And with one purpose made all things' "To gladden the heart and please the eye." Another Spring Nyal W. Anderson Here, morning bears the willow-winds That fence the furtive flow And follow sumac red with rust Skirting the sun-carved snow. Deep in their shadows sabled, Where liquid mouths green jade Lapping the roots of cherry wood, White petals fall and fade. She Silent Margery S. Stewart Oh, I would be a trumpeter and stand On the high hills calling and calling, ' Or the song in a great singer's throat, The strong notes rising. And falling, For thee, my Lord, for thee. Or a bird crying from mountains or the plain, Or a river singing thy praise in secret places, Or wild things in their unheard sweet refrain, Or children with their rapt uplifted faces, Singing, my Lord, for thee. But all I have is this deep inward singing, This beat of wings in upflung melody, This gratitude that rises like the gwell Of music from the greatest symphony, "Singing, my Lord, for thee. \otes\Se_From The Field = 4 Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for '"Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. BAZAARS, CONVENTIONS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Josephine Jenkins FLORIDA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION October 30, 1950 | Admiring the beautifully decorated cake prepared especially for the convention, left to right, Florence J. Madsen, member of the general board of Relief Society; General President Belle S. Spafford; Josephine Jenkins, President, Florida Stake Relief Society. Sister Jenkins, in expressing her appreciation for the visit of the general board members, writes as follows: "We feel so grateful for the privilege of having President Spafford and Sister Madsen with us at our convention. The sisters here expressed themselves freely, and said it was such an inspirational meeting. We hope they can visit us again soon." Page 202 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 203 Photograph submitted by Beth C. Woolf FRENCH MISSION, BELGIUM DISTRICT SINGING MOTHERS ' PRESENT MUSIC FOR BELGIUM DISTRICT CONFERENCE May 7, 1950 Relief Society women from five cities of Belgium sang together in this chorus in the chapel at Liege. The music was learned and rehearsed in each branch separately. Beth C. Woolf, President, French Mission Relief Society, reports: "Singing together as a large group was a new and satisfying experience for these sisters. 'This, the first Singing Mothers chorus to sing in Belgium, was directed by Jeanne Bowen and Jeen Hyer, missionaries. We have several fine active organizations of the Relief Society in our mission which we are very proud of. They would do justice to any branch or ward anywhere in the Church." e. "ah %: Be: % 'a > 'ef By. 3. A <7 i Photograph submitted by Lavena L. Rohner AU a INGLEWOOD STAKE (CALIFORNIA), NINE PRESIDENTS OF REDONDO BEACH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY The first president of this Relief Society, Sister Lorraine Cox, is seated in the center. Standing, left to right, in order of their terms of service, beginning with the second president: Essie Jensen; Jane Cobabe; Linnie Evans; Hazel Smith; Beatrice Kidman; Mildred Vansina; Geraldine Twitty; Estella Spurrier. At the present time all of these women are living in Redondo Beach Ward. Lavena L. Rohner is president of Inglewood Stake Relief Society. 204, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 Photograph submitted by Ethel L. Mauss JAPANESE MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY, IKEBUKURO AND MEGURO BRANCH OFFICERS AND OTHER RELIEF SOCIETY LEADERS ASSEMBLED AT THE MISSION HOME IN TOKYO Top photograph, left side, Ikebukuro Branch Relief Society officers, left to right: Sister Sagara, President; Sister Hata, Second Counselor; Sister Matsumoto, Secretary; Sister Ogawa, First Counselor. Top photograph, right side, Meguro Branch Relief Society officers, left to right: Sister Ueda, First Counselor; Sister Yoshino, Secretary; Sister Yamaguchi, President; Sister Mitome, Second Counselor. Bottom photograph, Relief Society leaders of the Japanese Mission assembled at the mission home in Tokyo, bottom row, left to right: Sisters Yamaguchi; Hata; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 205 Matsumoto; Yoshino; Ueda. Back row, left to right: Sisters Dorothy Koolau, missionary; Sagara; Ethel L. Mauss, President, Japanese Mission Relief Society; Ogawa; Mitome; Ruth Needham, missionary. Sister Mauss, in reporting Relief Society activities in the Japanese Mission, expresses her love for these dear sisters, and her appreciation of their diligence and faithfulness. "They are all such fine women. We have grown to love and respect them all. We feel that we have been blessed abundantly in our efforts and we are humbly grateful for our opportunities here for service." Sister Sagara, President of the Ikebukuro Branch, tells of her joy in the re-opening of the Japanese Mission: "I am very grateful for the grace of the Lord by which the Japanese Mission has been developed step by step, and at the present time, branches have been established in Tokyo, Osaka, Kyoto, Hokkaido,- Niigata, Kanazawa, Sendai, Kofu, Nagano, etc., having continuously increased in number of converts.... Our primary desire is to build our own chapel.... Our second desire is to help the needy." Photograph submitted by Lola M. Shumway PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA), FIFTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR Left to mnght: Counselor Cornelia Hatch; President Lilly Harris; SecretaryTreasurer Florence Evans. Articles displayed at this bazaar included beautifully embroidered pillowslips; many doilies and other crocheted articles; an attractive display of aprons, and some unusually beautiful quilts. Lola M. Shumway is president of Phoenix Stake Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 pene 208 ~ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 Photograph submitted by Lucile H. Spencer NEBO STAKE (UTAH), PAYSON F IRST WARD SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE Front row, left to right: Daisy Francom; chorister Mary Wyler; accompanist Viva Allen; Allene Christensen; Ruth Miller; Ella Money; Tillie Haskell; Lucille Drollinger; Ricka Wyler, president of the chorus. Back row, left to right: Vanetta Argyle; Flora Bissell; Jennie Elmer, President, Payson First Ward Relief Society; Charlotte King; Jennie Flanders; Eva Garner; Clea Crump; Hazel Gasser. Lucille H. Spencer is president of Nebo Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Della H. Teeter DENVER STAKE, LARAMIE (WYOMING) WARD SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Front row, left to right: Geneva Stevens; Helen Lewis; Second Counselor Rose Eads; Bernice Frost; Phyllis Leishman; President Pearl S. Black. Back row, left to nght: director Roma Jean Stock; Jacqueline Williams; Lois Rollins; Ida Mae Smith; Amy Willis; First Counselor Frieda Nottage; Margaret Williams; Chloe B. Peterson; Lucille Craven; Geniveve a Valear Jensen; Pauline Brenting; organist Hortense Burton. These women traveled more than one hundred twenty-five miles to sing at the stake conference. They also furnished a musical program once a week for four months on the radio in Laramie, as well as giving many fine musicals in their own ward. Della H. Teeter is president of Denver Stake Relief Society. Pull a New Apron From the Rag Bag Rachel K. Laurgaard 'o HEN that pretty percale house dress has become worn and torn, and ready for the rag bag, and yet, its colors are still true and bright, don't discard it. With a little sleight of hand, it can be turned into a brand new apron. Housewives must do a lot of reaching; their dresses have such a way of wearing out around the arms and shoulders, while the - skirt, especially the back, is often as good as new. So, why not take advantage of it? Rip off the waist. Open one seam of the skirt. Cut a strip for waistband and ties from the lower edge. Stitch in a narrow hem along sides and bottom, and gather the top onto the waistband. Presto! You have pulled a new apron from the rag bag as easily as a magician pulls a rabbit from a top hat. She Story Hour Norma Wrathall "Read us a story, Mother, Of Indians in the night, Or read about the pirates bold, With hoarded jewels bright." So while the shadows gather To frame our lamp-lit nook, Their eyes glow deep with wonder, Or they laugh at Captain Hook. Oh, these are fleeting minutes, The clock ticks swiftly on, First thing you know, it's bedtime, And the magic hour is gone Then put a bookmark in the place, And lay the book away, It's hard to wait till story time, Clear through another day! The years will rob the pirates Of their shining, golden lore; Indians, with feathered heads, Thrill childish dreams no more; But the chime of children's voices, When evening shadows start, Will echo on forever In the dim rooms of my heart. Page 209 210 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 Growing Pains (Continued from page 185) arm while he fumbled with the knot. The rope was frozen and refused to yield. From the pocket of his levis he took his knife and when he had managed to get the blade open he cut the rope. Skeets whinnied, not understanding the sudden slack. How he made the remaining distance and how long it took him Bill merely guessed afterward. He suddenly became aware that he was lying on the ground and Rings was nuzzling him. 'There were tiny icicles clinging to the hairs about the horse's nostrils. Bull fished for the oats and let Rings nibble them from his hand. 'Then he turned his attention to his problem. He had not made much of a trail, | and he doubted if the horses would attempt it. He clutched his fingers in Ring's long mane and, talking soothingly, started across. Rings went willingly until he felt snow against his belly. Snorting, he whirled back, almost jerking Bill from his feet. The boy's temper flared. "You knothead! You think I'm doing this for fun? Darn horses, anyway. 'They don't have a lick of sense sometimes." (Guess at that they had. He scanned the horizon anxiously. Another hour. 'Taking a deep breath, he plunged back into the snow., Going across was not hard this time, or wouldn't have been had his muscles been less tired. Back and forth, back and forth, he went trampling the snow with his heavy boots. Showed as much sense as he © HERE. He had done all he could do: The temperature had risen, which meant the storm was near. Peaks and shadows that had guided him here were now curtained out. A sense of hurry made his cold fingers even clumsier than they had been. Making a hackamore of his rope, he led Rings onto the trail. Rings, contrarily, lead as willingly as if they were crossing a pasture. 'The colts followed close behind. ~~ By the time they were headed home the storm was on them. Flakes swept down the slopes with an alertness and precision that spoke of unlimited reserves. As the storm thickened one side of Skeet's neck was covered with snow. Bill tried to beat it from his own clothes with the reins, but in less time than it took to remove it he was covered again. He thought grimly of old 'Gil Tanner who had started for his place on the Wolverine before just such a storm. 'The next March he had been found sitting with his back to a tree. A kindly blanket of snow 'had kept the coyotes away. His horse had never been found. Maybe—maybe this was his and Ring's way of joining Dad. Gradually Bill became aware of the snow hitting them in the face. Had the storm turned, or. Had he? For a moment he was incapable of deciding, then he turned Skeets and went on. Rings protested, but he spoke sharply to him. On and on. Unnoticed by Bill, their progress became slower and slower. When he did become aware of it he kicked his horse to GROWING PAINS hurry him, but Skeets stopped instead. No amount of urging would ~move him. In dull desperation Bill dismounted. The jar of setting his numbed feet to the ground brought him fully awake. What a jam! He didn't know south from north, and he couldn't see a yard ahead. No wonder Jake had ordered him to stay on the ranch. Well, he had always known that no one but Dad could find his way out of these hills in a blizzard, and he had made his choice' back there when he stopped to rescue Rings. Rings. Yeah—if Rings was so "smart, let him take them to safety. Why hadn't he thought of it before? 'Taking the rope from Ring's halter, he tied it to his tail. It took a lot of fumbling and cutting before he had a knot that would hold. 'The colts were crowded together with their backs bowed and their heads down. When the impossible was finally accomplished, Bill wiped the snow from the saddle and swung back into it. "Go on, Rings," he commanded. "We're tied to you so we go where you go." INGS didn't move. Bill repeated his command, and slowly the horse raised his face to the wind. He stepped tentatively ahead, then, realizing he was no longer being lead, he turned and started off at tight angles to the course they had been traveling. Biull's heart leaped with fear, but he knew Rings was his last hope. Darkness thickened the snow, and he could no longer see the colts. Soon he couldn't see Rings, but the pull on the rope was there. He dozed and came awake as Skeets 211 9999999999999 Laster Cantatas for Singing eMothers Cross of Redemption (SA) Norman.75 Easter Angels (SSA) Fearis Bi) Easter Sunrise Song (SSA) Holton.75 Eastertide (SSA) Avery --: 75 Eastertide (SSA) Protheroe _.75 From Darkness to Light (SSA) Tschaikowski ___ 22..--22-2-----------0-------- 75 Memories of Easter Morn (SSA) 6 ne ne 75 Resurrection Morning (SSA) Gates bio) Thorn Crowned King (SSA) Holton.75 Music Sent On Approval WE PAY POSTAGE Use this advertisement as your order blank ' DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated above. C] Charge aeneweery oO On Approval {] Money Enclosed Ce. FIRST OF ALL—RELIABILITY Daynes MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1. UTAH 212 ELECTRIC Water Heating more popular than \\ a iy More than' 100,000 people enjoy it in this area. | BUY FROM YOUR DEALER A Utah Power & Light Co. Message t bas always been our policy to have complete funerals to fit any budget > JOSEPH WM TAYLOR MEMORIAL MORTUARY 125 NORTH MAIN - SALT LAKE CiTy TELEPHONE 3-7624 | but RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 bumped into the leader. Rings was standing, and Bill sensed he was listening. "Get going," Bill urged. Instead of moving, Rings whinnied, a loud clear call that brought the colts crowding about him. There _was no answer. Again Rings called, and this time an answer came, faint unmistakable. Hope went through Bill with the force of an electric shock and brought him upright in the saddle. Where there was another horse there might be another rider. He put all his strength into a loud "Hello!" His heart beat so thunderingly he half heard a thousand answers and was not certain of one. Again he called, and incredibly a man answered. Bill held to the saddle horn to keep from falling. Good old Jake. Calling back and forth, sometimes losing each other's voice, but always regaining it, they drew near each other. Then out of the storm a Shadow appeared. ~ "Where did you find them?" Jake's voice was so matter-of-fact it took away the terror of the whitling darkness. "On the knob going to Crystal Lake." "IT thought of that. Rings was stranded there once before." Hurt still rankled in Bill. "Why did you come when you. Hate Rings so?" "T don't hate him, Bill, but your mother took one mighty stiff jolt from a horse. She couldn't 'ae another." He hesitated a moment then added, "We'll try for the Halfway Ranch." Bill lost all sense of time. On and on they went, until dark and storm and time had lost their mean- GROWING PAINS ing. He was jarred into consciousness by a loud whistle from Rings and the rough feel of his ribs as they rubbed against Bill's leg. The wind was bringing the smell of burning wood. 'They were against a fence and two men were helping Jake from his horse. He could not see, but the sounds told their story. They were safe at Halfway Ranch, and Dad could have done no better. Jake came up to help him, and for the first time Bill realized he was tied to the saddle. "Well, Son, we made it." A great weight lifted from Bill's chest. For the first time in a year and a half he was not alone. With a sigh of deep satisfaction, he reached out and found Jake's hand. = She Awakening Celia Van Cott. Drink deeply of heaven: Perfume fills the air, — Spring blossoms have dotted the glen. With resurging life In bud and blade, Resurrection is with us again. Against the Breath C. Cameron Johns Though silence clarions for a spoken word To fill its depths, The heart is hesitant in giving Broken phrases that the lips rehearsed; Once... Words came as quickly As the flow of hill-sped nvers; Now they are dissolved Like mists caught in the sun. The soul draws closer to its own candle As if to hoard its warmth Against the breath Blowing through the halls of loneliness. 213 WV extend a cordial invitation to our i, Dw Sn PREEN DS to visit our beautiful new stove. Salt Lake Knit 54 South Main Salt Lake City PRESERVE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINES Have the valuable information contained therein readily available for easy access permanently bound. Thee,, Deseret News Press 40 Richards Street Salt Lake City 1, Utah You Women are Needed In time of emergency, qualified mature women are in demand for essential office work. Attractive pay schedules prevail, and much of this work can be done in addition to regular employment, or other duties. Inquire about refresher courses in: beginning and * Typewriting * Office Machines * Bookkeeping * Shorthand * General Office Work Both Day and Evening School Increase your market value and income with training at the L. D. S. Business College, where you're given personal attention and counsel and job placement opportunities. You're Cordially Welcome at I, iy) BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City Dee ee eee ee ee - Send for Yours en ere eR wires PORTER-WALTON CO. 550 So. 6th East © Salt Lake City, Utah Mountain grown ROSES SHRUBS TREES FLOWER and VEGETABLE SEEDS RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 She Shall Have Music (Continued from page 157) at Parley. She realized now it was his little imperfections that made him lovable. Behind Parley's dickering and conniving, she saw 4. Quality of warmth, a lovingness that had been lying fallow. Ann wanted to tell him these things, how wonderful she thought he was, for new love had opened up like a water lily in her heart. But the words couldn't leap the lump in her throat. Parley's arms encircled her then, and holding her tightly and leaning over gently, he placed his lips on her pink flushed ear. Each word was laid out alone, like an important jewel, as he whispered "She Shall have... Music." Visiting Seachers Eva J. Lillywhite You have learned that wealth and knowledge Do not compensate, on earth, For the heartthrobs that are needed By the humble souls of worth. You have learned that fate and error Meet at crossroads of despair; And you hasten, full of mercy, With your balm of faith and prayer. Could you know your worth of service, As the angels do above, You would feel: true satisfaction In your realm of faith and love. NEwW===HNoOmMe DELUXE SEWING MACHINE DOES EVERYTHING! @ ZIGZAGS @ HEMSTITCHES @ BUTTONHOLES AUTOMATICALLY @ TUCKS ALL 14 @ RUFFLES FEATURES: — oo @ QUILTS $180.90 @ BINDS @ SEWS LACE (Zigzagger, Hemsticher, OTHER MODELS @ lel aaa and Buttonholer included) $69.95 - e ed UNDER and UP Why Pay More?; i HERE'S A MACHINE YOU CAN AFFORD UNDER PRESENT CREDIT RESTRICTIONS GUARANTEED FOR 20 YEARS MADE IN AMERICA SINCE 1860 Made to solve all your family sewing problems! Examination and trial by ward and stake Relief Societies also invited. SEE THE DEALER IN YOUR COMMUNITY JACKSON DISTRIBUTING CO. Page 215 From Thame Lillian Swenson Feltman, wife of Lynn Merrill Feltman, and mother of three sons, was educated in the schools of Logan, Utah, and has been interested in writing since early childhood. She has written. Many short stories and _ several novels. Some of her work has achieved publication, and her story "The Sewing Kit Speaks,' marks her first appearance in The Relief Society Magazine. Mrs. Feltman is very much interested in genealogical research, and finds much pleasure in research and record keeping. The Magazine is better and better each year. I am always so proud of it. Many of my friends in the writers' club are delighted to see it, and I loan them copies quite often. I loved Alice Morrey Bailey's poem "Lot's Wife" (first prize poem, January 1951). It impressed me very much. Mrs. Bailey is a very gifted: person. —Beatrice K. Ekman, Portland, Oregon I love the writings of Anna Prince Redd. I knew her when I was a girl living in Monticello, Utah. She has always been an inspiration to me. Every story, poem, and article which she writes for the Magazine. Incidentally, Mary Ann Baker, who wrote the words for the song "Master, The Tempest Is _ Raging," was my great-grandmother. She wrote the words to this song while on the high seas on her voyage from London to America, with her three children, one of whom was my grandmother Fannie Godfrey DeFrieze Jarvis. —Millie E. J. 'Titus, Tucson, Arizona I was very happy to place in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, since I have tried to do so many times before. I enjoy the good company of former winners, and with the moving poems of Julia Nelson and Ruth Chadwick who placed with me (January 1951). The literary quality and the fine religious tone of the Magazine make me proud that it is an organ of my Church, and I am always proud to have my work appear within its pages. —Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah Page 216 I look forward to. I desire to thank you for publishing my poem "Things to Remember" in the August (1950) issue of our Magazine. It is not often that I get up the courage to try, but I do love the Magazine so much. We have felt in our home that you have made The Relief Society Magazine very beautiful and most interesting. My husband always reads it through, and seems to like it best of all the magazines we subscribe to. He was a little disappointed that there was no Christmas story to read aloud this time. I think that if... Our sisters would read the articles in The Relief Society Magazine they might find great help and comfort in so doing. —Eleanor W. Schow, Brigham City, Utah Today I received the January issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I like Mrs. Bailey's poem "Lot's Wife" (first prize poem) exceptionally well. It is unique. —Grace Ingles Frost, Provo, Utah I have just been rereading my December issue of the Magazine, and I am truly looking forward to the January issue. I have been, enjoying this Magazine for almost two years now, thanks to a precious little lady at Riverton, Utah, Gladys Butterfield. May our Eternal Father shower his richest blessings on her and on the people who put out the Magazine, and on the organization behind the Magazine, and on the Church. I read my Magazines through and through. Then I reread many of the articles and pass the Magazines around to my neighbors. —Mrs. Shelby. Echols, Glenwood, Arkansas When you notice our Magazine subscriptions you will see what a lot of good it did me to come to conference. We have Arlington, Chevy Chase, and Washington Wards with over 100 per cent, and most of the rest over seventy-five per cent. We made charts such as I saw demonstrated in the Magazine meetIng.,; = Knudson, Arlington, Virginia Your "College grade" courses in education, offered in RELIEF SOCIETY use eminent textbooks in every field: Theology: The Life and Ministry of the Savior Reference: JESUS THE CHRIST, by James E. Talmage Cloth $2.75, Leather $7.00 Visiting Teachers Message: Our Savior Speaks Reference: THE HOLY BIBLE L. D. S. Missionary Edition $11.00; Others $1.75 to $20.00 Work Meeting: The Art of Homemaking Reference: "THE COMPLETE BOOK OF SEWING" by Constance Talbot $2.98 Literature: The Literature of England Reference: THE LITERATURE OF ENGLAND VOL. I by Woods, Watt and Anderson $4.50, by mail $4.75 1950-51 LESSONS FEATURE: Paradise Lost Paradise Regained and Samson Agonistes John Dryden, Richard Steele, and Joseph Addison Jonathan Swift, Alexander Pope, Oliver Goldsmith, Samuel Johnson, and James Boswell Social Science: "The Progress of Man" Reference: "THE PROGRESS OF MAN," by Joseph Fielding Smith (Temporarily out of print) — All prices are subject to change without notice — Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers "U. S. POSTAGE Paid — ———————) 6 e George Albert Smith, Pres. Solt Lake City. Utoh eis, 
