THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD

Belle S. Spafford - President
Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor
Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Leone G. Layton
Lillie C. Adams
Christine H. Robinson
Mary G. Judd
Blanche B. Stoddard
Louise W. Madsen
Alberta H. Christensen
Anna B. Hart
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Nellie W. Neal
Edith S. Elliott
Leone O. Jacobs
Josie B. Bay
Mildred B. Eyring
Florence J. Madsen
Mary J. Wilson
Alta J. Vance
Helen W. Anderson

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor - Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor - Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager - Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 38 AUGUST 1951 No. 8

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES

The Constitution and the United Nations Charter by Albert E. Bowen 507
Book of Mormon Witnesses and Their Testimony Meet Legal Standards by David J. Wilson 512

FICTION

Through This Door — Chapter 1 by Margery S. Stewart 517
The Silken Bond by Alice Morrey Bailey 542

GENERAL FEATURES

Sixty Years Ago 524
Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 525
Editorial: "Cease to Find Fault One With Another" by Marianne C. Sharp 526
Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering 548
From Near and Far 576

FEATURES FOR THE HOME

Can When You Can't by Angelyn W. Wadley 521
Jam and Jelly Making — An Art by Ethel C. Smith 528
Oil Paintings by Helen H. Jones 533
Boxes For Beauty by Celia L. Luce 534
How to Make Fluffy Rugs by Beatrice Squires Poelman 536
Diana Ellsworth Layton Enjoys Painting and Quiltmaking Hobbies by Thelma L. Hunsaker 538
Salad Days by Sara Mills 539
Waver Not by Kate Richards 575

LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER

Theology: The Witnesses to The Book of Mormon by Leland H. Monson 555
Visiting Teacher Messages: "Remember That My Spirit Will Not Always Strive With Man" by Leone O. Jacobs 562
Work Meeting — Sewing: Patching by Jean Ridges Jennings 563
Literature: Two Pre-Romantic Poets: James Thomson and William Collins by Briant S. Jacobs 564
Social Science: The Revival of Learning by Archibald F. Bennett 568
Music: Efficiency in Teaching and Practicing Hymns and Anthems by Florence Jepperson Madsen 572

POETRY

Before I Sleep by Maryhale Woolsey 505
To Teachers by Agda Gronbech Harlow 511
August by Lella N. Smith 516
Heartbeat by Phyllis Juhlin Park 520
Deep in This Night by Katherine F. Larsen 527
Among the Ferns by Eva Willes Wangsgaard 533
Song by Gene Romolo 535
New Horizons by Margaret Smith Larson 541
Poppies in Summer by Linnie F. Robinson 547
Prayer by Mary Gustafson 575

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 38, NO. 8. AUGUST 1951 She Yn tervening Maryhale Woolsey Now the advancing year attains its fulness In flaming days, gold-edged and heaven-high; In dawns tenacious of the bright July, In nights outstretching to September's coolness. Its blue-eyed minutes slacken eager running And pause, tiptoe, to verify their choice Of way. Hushed is the summer's lilting voice, While earth dreams lazily through ardent sunning. The August mood is one of acquiescing, Yet lifted by a calm expectancy, As if accepting slow maturity With small regret for time's relentless passing. These are the waiting-days, the intervening Between the growing season and the gleaning. The Cover: Yosemite Vista, Yosemite National Park, California, Photograph by Jeff Thomson. Cover Design by Evan Jensen. Ward Linton MATILIJA POPPIES San Gabriel Mountains, California The Constitution and the United Nations Charter I. THE BACKGROUND OF LIBERTY Elder Albert R. Bowen [This is the first of a short series of articles dealing with "The Constitution and the United Nations Charter."—Ed.] WO world wars in a generation have produced in the minds of millions a spirit of despair coupled with the fear that a third such war, which perhaps has already started, will leave civilizaton prostrate and plunge us into a \. Lew age of darkness. All people ' 'ar, and rightly so, the terrible de-. "tructiveness of the atom bomb and he even worse effects of the Hbomb. Out of this fear and despair has arisen the belief in the minds of perhaps millions that peace must be maintained at all costs. 'Thus we see men and nations that, in earlier times, were willing to fight in defense of their liberties, now proclaim that it is better to lose liberty than to die in futile opposition to the threatening tyranny of Communism. To those in our own and other countries who may be tempted to buy peace by appeasement, it would be well to suggest that the consequences of such surrender be thoroughly considered. In those countries where surrender has already occurred it is too late to reflect. The process of regaining liberty is always infinitely more difficult and costly than the surrender of it. Just as a good life may be ruined and destroyed by a single unworthy act, so will a nation forfeit any hope of progress and happiness by abject surrender to tyranny. What does it mean to live without liberty? To the serf in feudal times it meant little more than abject slavery. It meant that service to the lord of the manor was compulsory; the privilege to cultivate a small tract of land to provide food for wife and children, so long as the lord of the manor should see fit to allow it, with never the possibility of ever becoming the owner of said land or of bequeathing it to one's heirs. It meant the performance of menial tasks and services to the lord of the manor without compensation, and death upon refusal to obey. It meant literally being chained to the land, with death as the penalty for escape. It meant that the most personal rights of the individual were subject to the whims of the lord, who, if he chose, could even claim against the new husband the right of the nuptial couch. To the lord of the manor it meant that his lands and property were his to occupy and use only so long as the king was pleased to permit it. It meant the ever-present possibility of arbitrary seizure of person or property without warrant of arrest or public trial. If, for any reason, the victim was personally Page 507 508 obnoxious to the king or some powerful individual of influence connected with his court, or if some act was committed which displeased such persons of power or influence, there was the ever-present threat of reprisal or punishment, often with-. Out just cause. Sometimes where the wealth of the unfortunate victim attracted the greed of the covetous despot, he was done away with so that his wealth and property could be seized and enjoyed by the despot. 'There are many instances where it meant being walled up in dungeons without trial, to remain there until a merciful death released a tortured spirit from the body, and all because it might be convenient to have a rival disappear who might otherwise constitute a threat to power and influence. It was also a common occurrence for persons to suffer torture and persecution for petty offenses or imaginary affronts to one in power or authority. Especially to the weak and humble it meant endless servitude without any hope of release. The fate and condition of victims of oppression has not become any happier by the passage of time. Despots, dictators, and tyrants are the same now as they have always been and always will be. In our day the torture and oppression of weak and helpless individuals has become even more tertible and refined. Now, life without freedom, to millions, means Slavery to the state, an ever present threat of extinction in gas chambers _ or by torture, the denial of the right to worship or even to think according to the dictates of conscience, and denial of access to truth, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 the distortion of truth by ruthless propaganda. "THE struggle for liberty and freedom is not new. It is a perpetual struggle and has been going on since the beginning of time. In the scriptures we are told that this struggle was even waged in heaven. In that first great struggle the forces of free agency and freedom prevailed. Will anyone now assert that the victory was not worth the fight? 'There were those in that time who refused to take any pait. The shame of their refusal to participate in the righteous cause is nt enviable. Those who fought fo enslave the human soul were cast. Out into darkness, there to remair' forever. The outcome of that first great struggle can well form the basis for optimism that righteous men can retain their liberties and freedom against any evil threat against them, and should strengthen all who love the cause of liberty to a firm determination never to surrender it. Though the battle may be long, and much suffering take place, it is not the destiny of man to be enslaved against his will. A divine Providence will protect the man or nation worthy to be free. A man willing to surrender liberty as the price of peace is worthy only to be a slave. This is especially true if the blessings of liberty have been conferred upon him by the struggle of his forebears who willingly risked life and property to secure it. In the case of our own country, this is literally true. It-was by no accident of fate that liberty under our Constitution was THE CONSTITUTION AND THE UNITED NATIONS CHARTER achieved. The struggle which culminated in the glorious realization of liberty in our land under our divinely inspired Constitution began literally centuries before that realization. The full recital of the events of that struggle fills countless volumes and cannot be repeated here. Reference to a few of the great milestones marking the path of this achievement are pertinent and should be mentioned. Because the American constitutional system is basically Anglo-Saxon in its origin, there is no escape from the mention of some of the great events in English history. HE faint glimmerings of political freedom began in England before the Norman conquest by the evolution in that early day of the principle of constitutional rule. The principle of constitutional rule is that which holds that the people have the right to a voice in the selection of their rulers. Harold, the Saxon king, was elected. 'Thus the divine right of kings to rule in England was challenged and repudiated by those ancient Saxons. By this principle of selection of rulers, the early Saxons effectively controlled and prevented the perpetuation of despotic kings. 'This principle, a noble beginning of freedom, was lost in the Norman conquest. However, the people of England, even in the darkest days of feudalism, kept alive the memory of the democratic principle that those who govern should be selected by the will of those who are governed, and thus, in some measure at least, be amenable to the will of the governed. 509 Copyright, Perry Pictures GEORGE WASHINGTON pa ee) )) From a Painting by Gilbert Stuart In the early years of the reign of Henry I, about 1100 a. V., a document, which has come to be known as the Charter of Henry I, was signed by the king. 'This document reaffirmed the principle of constitutional rule as understood before the conquest. This charter should be ranked high among the historic documents of all time. It was the immediate forerunner of Magna Charta, and although Henry's successors repudiated this charter, and although they destroyed all of the one hundred copies which were made of it, except one, it was not forgotten when a century later King John was forced to recognize its validity and reaffirm the guarantees of individual rights which it contained. Magna Charta was written in 1215 AD. And became the founda- 510 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 Copyright, Perry Pictures BENJAMIN FRANKLIN JAMES MADISON ALEXANDER HAMILTON "THIS GREAT CHARTER OF LIBERTY (THE CONSTITUTION) WAS DRAFTED BY A GROUP OF DIVINELY INSPIRED MEN WHOSE POLITICAL | SAGACITY AND UNDERSTANDING HAVE NEVER BEEN SURPASSED." tion stone of modern constitutional liberty as we know it. Magna Charta, among other things, recognized the right of an accused to a fair trial by a jury of his peers, and repudiated the arbitrary power of kings and rulers to govern as they pleased, unanswerable to anyone but their own conscience. As an eloquent illustration of the forces which seem to be always arrayed to destroy free agency, Pope Innocent III ordered the great charter annulled by issuance of a papal bull, and King John refused to recognize it after it was signed because he claimed it had been wrested from him by force. King John was correct, since Magna Charta represented the first time in English history that an absolute ruler had been compelled by force to recognize the rights of common men. In spite of the opposition In this contention. Of pope and king, Magna Charta survived and remains today as a magnificent beacon light of human freedom. | F'TER Magna Charta, by a long, slow, and painful process, there was developed the recognition of another righteous principle essential to liberty. Men finally came to understand that courts, having the responsibility of the administration of justice, must perform that function without fear or favor, and that the decisions of courts of law must not be influenced by the power which created them. A corollary, equally important, which evolved at about the same time, is that government itself is subject to law. Lord Coke, Lord Chief Justice of England, made a famous declaration to Charles I when Charles demanded to know if the judges of England THE CONSTITUTION AND THE UNITED NATIONS CHARTER 511 would obey his orders. Coke replied: "When the case happens I shall do that which shall be fit for a judge to do.". By the end of the reign of the Stuarts, principles of parliamentary government were strongly established in England. Also, by that time the independence of courts and judges and the amenability of sovereigns to law had become a recognized part of the English political system. After America was discovered, the established ideas and political practices developed during the long centuries in England were transplanted to our shores and took firm and deep root. These ideas and principles were well understood by the colonists, many of whom came here to escape the tyrannies of the Old World. Political freedom was valued almost above everything else in life, and by many, such as Patrick Henry, above life itself. Our Constitution was the glorious result of centuries of struggle by men who would be free. This great charter of liberty was drafted by a group of divinely inspired men whose political sagacity and understanding have never been surpassed. Since that time no charter of liberty has ever been framed which equals it, though many attempts have been made by others to imitate it. It is good for us frequently to remind ourselves of the struggles which brought to us the great and priceless gift of political liberty, to remember that that struggle was long and costly, and, finally, that we have received this great gift in trust for our posterity. Our failure to guard and protect this treasure for our children could only result in our dishonor. So Leaders Agda Gronbech Harlow As gently as the summer sky drops rain On thirsting soil; unstintingly as winds Leave their wild play to turn our pasture mill; Generously as the evening sun spills gold Or shoots long ivy shadows on the wall, Or paints the dusty corn shocks copper-red— As quietly and lavishly you give, Expecting no return from busy hours. But earth yields grain and flowers; windmills toil; The sun's own beauty shines from every field. There's not a part of all this countryside But somehow finds a way to thank the sky. See in our eyes our gratitude to you; See in our living our appreciation. Book of Mormon Witnesses and Their Testimony Meet Legal Standards Elder David J. Wilson' Attorney, Ogden, Utah VERY intelligent person desires to know the facts in any given situation. No _ one should condemn or approve without knowing the facts. If not personally present to see or "witness" an event, one must depend upon others who were present for information. To furnish such information or facts is the function of witnesses. The Old Testament law required that "at the mouth of two witnesses, or at the mouth of three witnesses, shall the matter be established" (Deut. 19:15). And Paul approved the same rule of procedure in New Testament times (II Cor. 13:1). Hammurabi (about 2000 B. C.) set up tribunals in which witnesses could testify. Down through history and into our common and statutory law have come tribunals set up to hear evidence and establish facts. The Utah Code provides that "all persons, without exception, otherwise than as specified in -the next two sections, who, having organs of sense can perceive, and perceiving can make known their perceptions to others, may be witnesses" (Sec. 104-49-1 UCA 1943). However, persons "of unsound mind at the time of their appearance for examination,' and "children under ten years of age who appear incapable Page 512 of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined, or of relating them truly," may not be witnesses. In this discussion we shall analyze the competency and credibility. Of the eleven witnesses of the Book. Of Mormon from a legal standpoint. Our inquiry is, were the eleven witnesses to The Book of Mormon competent and credible according to legal standards, and is their testimony worthy of belief? In speaking of competency, we have in mind those qualifications which make a witness legally fit to testify in a court of justice. A credible witness is a person competent to testify, and who is worthy of belief. It may be said, as a general rule, that there is a presumption in the absence of competent evidence to the contrary, that people act in good faith, with honest purposes, and one who charges bad faith or dishonest motives has the burden of proving his contentions. Then, too, every person is assumed to be normal in mind and body until the contrary is proved, and every person is presumed to possess good character. And, character may be proved by general reputation. Generally speaking, testimony affirmative and positive in its na- BOOK OF MORMON WITNESSES ture is considered stronger than mere negative testimony. And, as a rule, witnesses are presumed to have testified truthfully. A court or jury has no right arbitrarily, or because of mere caprice, to reject the testimony of a witness who has not been impeached or discredited. The problem of what constitutes competent and credible testimony is interwoven with the question of competency and credibility of witnesses. In our quest for truth, we should try to obtain from honest witnesses testimony based upon information derived from direct observation and experience. According to the foregoing legal standards, were the eleven witnesses to The Book of Mormon competent, credible witnesses? LIVER Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris, the three witnesses, were all normal, successful men, endowed with more than average intelligence. In June 1829, when these men claimed they saw the plates, Oliver Cowdery was twenty-two years of age, with a reputable background as a farmer, © clerk, and school teacher. That he was measurably better educated than the average man of his time is conclusively shown by the fact that he wrote in a very legible hand practically the whole text of The Book of Mormon as he heard it from the lips of Joseph Smith. Later he was admitted to the bar and served as a prosecuting attorney in the State of Michigan. We know that he possessed unusual power as a descriptive and narrative writer, as is evidenced from his description of the restoration of the Aaronic Priest- 513 hood (See Roserts, A Comprehensive History of the Church, I, page 178, footnote 5). The clarity and orderliness of his mind are also shown in the impressive discourses which he delivered (See, for example, D. H. C. II, page 194, "General Charge to the 'T'welve''). Certainly such a man would have been a highly competent and credible witness before any tribunal. David Whitmer was twenty-four years of age when he gave his testimony in 1829 in support of the authenticity and divinity of The Book of Mormon. His father served in the Revolutionary War, and witb a God-fearing companion of excellent character, reared a family of five sons and two daughters as strict Presbyterians. David, throughout his life, was industrious and honest, and bore an untarnished reputation for integrity and veracity. Indeed, the Richmond Conservator, published in David Whitmer's home town, carried a statement signed by a score of leading business and professional men in which they certified, "we have been long and intimately acquainted with him and know him to be a man of the highest integrity, and of undoubted truth and veracity" (Nistey, The Witnesses of the Book of Mormon, page 89). At the time of his death, the Richmond Democrat referred to David Whitmer as honest and upright in all his dealings (Ibid., page 104). Furthermore, it is evident from Mr. Whitmer's writings that he was a man of unusual intelligence and capacity (See "Address to All Believers in Christ'). Martin Harris in 1829 was fortysix years of age—a successful farmer 514 who was able to borrow $3,000 in cash. He owned his own farm, and was generally recognized as a prosperous citizen. He frequently hired Joseph Smith on the Harris farm. Obviously, he was not illiterate because he copied in his own handwriting, from the spoken words of Joseph Smith, 116 pages from the sacred records. Clearly the three witnesses were not mere "nobodies'; they were men among men, competent and credible according to the highest legal standards. Should there be any doubt that the testimony given by such men should be accorded full credit? Surely they were honest in their convictions, and men whose background insured the veracity of their statements. HAT was their testimony? Solemnly they bore testimony to the world that they saw the plates from which The Book of Mormon was translated, and observed the engravings upon the plates. To that extent their testimony is the same as that of the eight witnesses. However, critics and skeptics throw up their hands and shout "impossible!" when the three witnesses testify that the plates in question were exhibited to them by a heavenly messenger, and that they heard the voice of God assure them that the plates were translated by the gift and power of our Heavenly Father. 'There is no doubt but that in a court of law, witnesses cannot give testimony upon which the divinity of a claim can be determined, but men who witness an event in broad daylight and give testimony based upon the exercise of their own vision, hearing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 195] and feeling, certainly must be believed when they attest that they saw, heard, and felt certain things. Any court would have to receive their testimony to that extent. In law, no statement is granted greater sanctity than that made on the deathbed. Men facing the final hour of dissolution have a high and solemn respect for truth and recognize their responsibility as never before toward their Maker.. Each of the three witnesses reaffirmed his testimony concerning the divinity of The Book of Mormon upon his deathbed. The eight witnesses were likewise men of intelligence and integrity. They were honest, honorable, and reliable. 'The theory that these men conspired with the three witnesses to fabricate testimony concerning such a solemn experience as that about which they testified, is overwhelmingly discredited by the abundance of evidence as to their honesty and integrity. 'They were not victims of hallucinations. 'Their testimony was of the matter-of-fact kind; that they saw and handled the plates and observed their workmanship, and the engravings thereon. The eight witnesses—Christian Whitmer, Jacob Whitmer, Peter Whitmer, Jr., John Whitmer, Hiram Page, Joseph Smith, Sr., Hyrum Smith, and Samuel H. Smith, were good men—intelligent, industrious, and honest. The four Whitmers were the sons of Peter and Mary Musselman Whitmer, and brothers of David' Whitmer. They ranged in age from twenty to thirtyone years when they saw and inspected the plates from which The Book of Mormon was translated. BOOK OF MORMON WITNESSES One of Jacob Whitmer's sons _became a lawyer and mayor in his home town, Richmond, Missouri. John was sufficiently well trained to become the first historian of the Church, and became the owner of extensive land and livestock holdings. Christian and Peter, Jr. Both died within a few years after giving their statement, but they, with their brothers, remained loyal and unshaken in their testimony. IRAM Page became a physician and surgeon, and practiced in New York and Canada. He had a family of nine children. He reaffrmed his testimony numerous times. He died staunch in that testimony. Joseph Smith, Sr., one of the finest Christian gentlemen of his generation, was the father of ten children, including the Prophet Joseph. He was an honest farmer, and he and his wife gave their lives for the truth as they saw it. Of Hyrum Smith it was truthfully said, "He lived so far beyond the ordinary walk of man that even -the tongue of the vilest slanderer could not touch his reputation. He lived Godly and he died Godly." Samuel H. Smith, the remaining witness, was the brother of the Prophet Joseph and the Patriarch Hyrum, and the son of Joseph Smith, Sr. Of him it was deservedly said, "If ever there lived a good man upon the earth, Samuel H. Smith was that person." We then have eleven men of — more than ordinary intelligence, 515 honest and dependable in their background and reputation, solemnly voicing and writing the fact that they saw the plates from which The Book of Mormon was translated, and inspected them to the extent that they became conclusively convinced that that record was all that it purported to be. On one occasion they all stood up before a congregation of men bearing the Holy Priesthood, held up their hands together, and unitedly bore solemn testimony to the truthfulness and divinity of The Book of Mormon based upon their personal knowledge (NIBLEy, Witnesses to The Book of Mormon, page 24). Such testimony must be accepted by unbiased investigators. These witnesses, after the lapse of one hundred twenty-two years, stand before the world unimpeached, and unimpeachable. In conclusion, it must be observed that there is no substitute for a genuine, burning testimony in the individual soul concerning the divinity of The Book of Mormon, and this discussion makes no claim to any theory that the divinity of The Book of Mormon can be established in a court of law. It is hoped only to give new underpinning and support to testimonies based upon intangible, spiritual evidence. It may also assist those who have not achieved full assurance of the divinity of the latter day work, for truly the witnesses of The Book of Mormon made a case worthy of acceptance in tribunals of earthly origin set up to determine facts. Note: This article, by Elder David J. Wilson, offers supplementary material to class leaders for the theology lesson, page 555, in this issue of the Magazine, entitled "The Witnesses to The Book of Mormon." Josef Muench RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 Gr ain Field | Lella N. Smith I watched a field of grain from early spring Until at harvest time, a golden thing In rich fulfillment of its growth, it lay In patient waiting for the reaping day. So beautiful it was when spring was new, Pale green beneath the sun and wet with dew, And still more beautiful when summer came, A rippling lake beside the lane. But when it tured to gold beneath the sun Like deep-piled carpet out of sunlight spun, Most beautiful it was—I thank our God For this blest miracle from seed and sod. Through This Door CHAPTER 1 Margery S. Stewart remember the day I first heard | that Mrs. Marriott was coming to Danielville to live. I remember it as plain as if it were yesterday. I can feel the gray, dusty boards of Mrs. Callister's porch under me, and my bare toes scrubbing in the gray dust... Hot dust. It was August. I remember the street with its gray-board houses across from me and the one on the corner that was ours, more shabby, more cluttered, more woebegone than any. I remember how the hot grayness stretched away from the street to the gray, bare hills. I sat, as I always sat, with my face uplifted to the lovely blueness of the sky. Mrs. Callister and Mrs. Olsen were talking about the high prices, the low wages of their men, about their physical discomforts. 'Their voices were high and tired and dragging. Then, suddenly, Mrs. North, she lived next door to us, came racing across the street. She was carrying Phillip, the baby, under her arm, and I remember laughing at his indignant face as he bounced furiously on her ample hip. Mts. Callister couldn't wait. She shouted, "You know something new, Mrs. North?" We all leaned forward thirstily. Mrs. North plopped Phillip down on the porch, sank down beside him, and panted for a minute. We all waited politely. "It's that Mrs. Marriott! The one whose husband lost all their money. She's coming here to live!" "Mrs. Marriott!" I cried. "Oh, she couldn't. There isn't any place for her." Mrs. North sniffed. "No place good enough for the likes of her, but it's the last place she has. It's her grandfather's old place right next door to where you are sitting." I couldn't believe it. I leaned forward, my long braid flipped over my shoulder. I stared at the house next door as if I had never seen it before. The old Emerson house. The Emersons had moved out last Christmas, saying as how it wasn't fit for man nor beast. It had been a grand house once, with its round tower on the south and its two stories and an attic, and its fancy woodwork on the front porch. But it hadn't been painted in my lifetime, and I was fifteen. The Emersons had left an old stove sitting on the front porch and the weather had rusted it. An old rocker lay under the ancient apple tree, its wood bleached white as bone. I said, "But I've seen Mrs. Marriott's house in town. It's it's beautiful. She can't come here to live. She can't!" Suddenly I was crying, because I was that age, I suppose, and was finding out for the first time that the princess could lose her kingdom. It didn't seem fair nor right to me. Page 517 518 _ Mrs. Callister said, "Hush, now, Mary Ruth. 'There're a lot of things in this life that are mighty hard to take. But we have to learn to take them. You let Mis' Marriott shed her own tears, you'll have use for yours." "But I saw her once," I cried, furious at my tears, and trying helplessly to explain. "It was last summer. I went to Stapleton for a pair of shoes, and she was in the store buying a pair for her little girl, and oh, she looked so beautiful, so tall and cool. I don't want her to come here! I don't want her to come here!" Mrs. North moved over and patted my shoulder. "It's trying to be mother to all those brothers and sisters of hers that's unsettling her, all those Grayson children," she said, aside to the others. "She's too young for so much work." Then, addressing me, "Now, Mary Ruth Now, Mary Ruth, don't cry any more." BUT I shrugged out of her arms and jumped to my feet and ran home. They didn't understand at all. It wasn't the work. I was young and strong and willing. It wasn't my three young sisters and my two wild little brothers, nor my father, tired and quiet since Mother's death, tired and quiet with the life gone out of him, and living in the past when "things were different, Mary Ruth." It wasn't any of these things. It _ was just that the lady I had dreamed I should one day become like, had been robbed of her castles and would now become as myself and the others, gray, drab, beaten. Mrs. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 Marriott. I thought of her dark, shining hair, so smoothly rolled on the back of her neck, even though every other woman's hair was cut short, her white, smooth hands. Mrs. Marriott had "help" all the time, not just one girl, but two, and sometimes three for parties. I loved her voice, though I had heard it only four times. It was low and gentle, and she did not slur away the words but gave them endings. I shook down the ashes in the old kitchen stove with furious intensity. Would Mrs. Marriott have to use the old range in the tumbledown kitchen? I thought of her husband, Mr. Marriott, and I hated him, because he had not been strong enough, nor wise enough to keep her in the golden tower. Though, as it turned out, I was wrong in that. For in the days that followed when every morsel concerning the Marriotts was devoured greedily by us all, we heard that Mr. Marriott had been a sick man for a long time, so ill he could not attend to his business affairs. An unscrupulous friend had defrauded him. Mr. Marriott wouldn't let anyone suffer because of him. Mrs. North said he sold everything he had to pay people back, until there wasn't anything at all except the old Emerson house that had been Mrs. Marriott's grandfather's. It was on a Tuesday evening the Marriotts came. It was a sultry night, oppressive, with a thunder storm growling in the west. Dishes were done and the young ones were playing hide-and-seek in the back field. I slipped into the yard and sat on the old rocker under the ap- THROUGH THIS DOOR ple tree and looked at the Emerson house. The door was open, blown open by the wind, long ago, and never closed. I could see into the hallway. 'The battered staircase had lost the second step. 'The ancient wallpaper in the hall was watermarked. A car, beautiful and long, came to a smooth halt before the house. 'The car door opened and a woman's voice said, "Ill go see if the moving men have come yet. You keep Lora with you, John." TT wae) (irs, Mariott. I didn't know what to do, so I did nothing, but sat in the hiding the shadows of the tree afforded me and stared. Mrs. Marriott was wearing asnavy blue linen suit with a hat to match and white gloves and a white scarf at her neck. Her shoes were lovely. I tucked my own battered Oxfords under me. Her shoes were blue linen pumps, lovely and slim. I watched them pick their careful way over the broken path. She called back. "I wrote and told them to turn on the electricity, John, but I forgot to buy globes." J jumped to my feet. "Mrs. Marriott, ['ll run and get Dad's flashlight if you want me to." She turned and looked at me, not seeing me. Her lips turned up at the corners, but there was no laughter in her smile. "Would you mind?" I dashed home and was back in a moment or two flushed and panting. "Here you are, Ma'am." "Thank you." I was dismissed, but I couldn't go. I leaned against the porch railing while she climbed the battered 519 three steps. I listened to the sounds the beautiful linen shoes made on the ancient boards. I heard their reluctant tapping as they went from room to room, the long, long silence they made in the dreadful kitchen. I cried again, remembering the home she had left, the home I had seen in the little glimpses a passerby achieved. 'The steps grew Slower and slower and heavier. When she came out on the porch, I lifted my eyes to her face and drew back. I did not dream a few moments could so age a woman, could so suck out the life, that only a casing of clay was left of what once had been beauty and laughter. "Mrs. Marriott!" I whispered, the tears running into my lips. She walked stiffly down the stairs and out to the car. Her voice was harsh and dry. "Come along, John. We may as well get used to it. Come, Lora." Mr. Marriott got out of the car slowly and stopped to lean against it. "That bad?" He looked at her. "Pm sorry, Rachel." She did not answer him. A little girl about nine stumbled sleepily out of the car. She rubbed her eyes and looked at the house. "Oh, Mother! Not this awful place." Mrs. Marriott did not answer her either, only held her for a long time. Then she said, "You two, walk around and stretch your legs for a minute. The moving men should be here any minute." They walked unhappily away from her. She stood still watching them, and then she turned back to the car. She leaned against it, her 520 face in her hands. I saw her shoulders shake. I crept away. It was quite dark now. In the shadows I stumbled against some- - one, who put a warning hand over my mouth. T was Mrs. Callister. "She musn't know we saw," she whispered, and then, "poor, poor woman. I know what she's suffering. That's how I felt when I came here." I recoiled, knowing without seeing that Mrs. Callister's dress was the same she had worn for three days, torn and spotted. I thought of Mrs. Marriott's blue linen suit, the immaculate gloves, the white, white scarf. I rose early the next morning, and fed the youngsters and saw them off to play. Then I made a batch of popovers. I covered them carefully with one of mother's linen napkins, the ones we never used at all except on Christmas. I waited until I saw the first gray spiral of smoke circle above the Marriott's chimney, then I ran over with the steaming plate. I knocked at the back door and Mrs. Marriott came, after a long time. She looked at me with disRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 taste, and [ realized in my hurry I had forgotten to brush and rebraid my hair, that my face had not been washed since yesterday. I held out the plate. "I I made them for you." "Thank you..." She took the plate. Habit was strong. "How kind. Won't you come in?" I went in. She had a great picnic basket on the rickety kitchen table, and she had been getting plates and silver from that. She was wearing a blue polka-dot cotton dress, but I saw that the morning battle with the ancient range had already left its sooty imprints. Soot lay in an angry line across her cheek. Her eyes were red and swollen, and her lips were set in a straight, hard line. Smoke poured from the lids of the range. "It's your damper," I said. "You have to leave it open until the wood is really burning." I showed her how. "Now you won't have any trouble with it, if you can remember that little trick." She said thinly, "I won't have to worry about it much longer, we're leaving." (To be continued) ~~ Helping Hand Phyllis Juhlin Park — He placed his chubby, trusting hand in mine, And slowing up my pace to meet his own, I helped the small uncertain legs along, The rugged path before his wondering eyes. Today he takes my care-worn hand in his, And now, adjusting strides beyond my strength, He guides my tired, weary legs along, The rugged path before my fading sight. | | Can When You Can Angelyn W. Wadley WHEN I was young, it seemed to me that my mother had some kind of a complex about canning.: "A reasonable amount of this is fine," we used to tell her, "but you go at it every year as if you were expecting a famine." "You are flippant," she would answer, "because you've never felt real hunger. I hope you never do, but who knows what the future will bring? The time to preserve food is when you can get it to preserve." For Mother, canning was not exclusively a summertime job. During the winter, as we emptied the jars of fruits and vegetables, she filled them with sausage, chicken, beef, pork, and soups for summer use. It seemed to us that it only took a few bare shelves and empty bottles to start her thinking about something to put in them. How well I remember our first pressure cooker! It was a tall, unwieldy monster that held two layers of quart jars. We owned it jointly with several of my aunts. I can still feel the atmosphere of flurry and rush when peas or string beans or corn were ready. We would get up extra early and the whole family would pitch in to help so we could get ours done and not delay someone else in using the cooker. Later, when we had a smaller canner of our own, the job could be spread out more, but it was no less important. There never was a complete crop failure. Some years frost damage decreased our fruit supply, but there was always something. I don't recall ever seeing the canning cupboard empty. But as I grew older ° and began to share in the responsibility for meal preparation, I came to understand the satisfaction my mother derived from her _ wellstocked shelves. Unexpected guests, not getting to town when she planned, the pressure of special jobs necessitating quick meals, someone else in need—mother's cellar held the answer to the problem. And now that I am the mother of a growing, hungry brood, I find that I have the same enthusiasm my mother had for a well-provisioned family larder. Paper-bag meal planning is quite at variance with the pattern of housewifery molded into my mind by mother's management and thrifty ways, and later by my home economics training. Since I can less meat than mother did, summer is the season for most of my canning. But by the time the trees and gardens are bare again, I hope to have my shelves well filled once more with the same three things she wanted on hers, and that all canning enthusiasts want—quantity, quality, and variety. By variety I mean a wide assortment of jams, jellies, pickles, relishes, fresh fruits, and vegetables. ~I also mean some foods canned in a variety of ways with specific uses in mind. Of fruits, for instance, tart, firm apples that don't mush up in cooking can be sliced and cold-packed. Page 52] 522 These are particularly good for pies, salads, or fruit cup, and if the juice is drained off they can be substituted in most any pudding recipe which calls for fresh raw apples. Good, thick applesauce can be made from varieties of apples which do not remain firm in cooking. Some batches can be spiced lightly with cinnamon and nutmeg and sweetened with brown sugar and, maybe, a little honey. Or you can make it taste quite different with the addition of some crushed pineapple. No doubt, in some, you will want the good unmodified flavor of plain apples. You can give a mild almond flavor to some of your jars of peach- €s or apricots by leaving in a few stones. If you like tangy spice flavors, whole cloves or cassia buds can be added to part of your peaches, especially the cling varieties. Spiced pears are nice, too, for a change. A slice or two of pineapple, orange, or lemon in each jar goes well with apricots, pears, or peaches. Slipping the skins on peaches or apricots saves a great deal of time over peeling and won't spoil the appearance if done carefully. Put the fruit into a wire basket or cloth bag and drop it into enough boiling water to completely cover it. Leave it in for about one minute and then plunge it into cold water to stop the cooking process, since too much cooking will make the surface mushy when the skin is pulled off. The skins will slip smoothly and easily if the fruit is ripe but not too soft. | 3 Instead of making the syrup for cold-pack canning of fruit, I measure the dry sugar right into the jars RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 and add enough hot water to fill them each approximately one-fourth full. I give this a quick stir, put in the fruit, and then add additional clear water if necessary. This way, I am sure of having a uniform amount of sugar in each jar of fruit. Dropping the fruit into syrup immediately after peeling also prevents darkening of light fruit. Sometimes fruit that is poor quality for one use in very satisfactory for some other, and variety and better appearance can be achieved at the same time. For instance, while you are processing peaches, the halves that aren't attractive can be sliced into separate jars and these are just right for salads, gelatine desserts, or puddings, or for serving with whipped cream. Pears too small or wormy for nice halves can be diced or made into sauce. One year when the only pears we could get seemed impossible for anything else, we discovered that pear sauce, sieved or mashed, and with some Jemon juice and crushed pineapple added, makes very choice dessert. I have canned it every year since. Apricots that are small or fibrous can be made into good juice or puree, and this is excellent as a breakfast drink or a foundation for punch. OUP concentrates are time savers in meal preparation and require very little extra effort at the time of canning. For tomato soup, the juice can be flavored to suit your taste and then thickened with flour before canning. I use one cup of flour to each gallon of juice but more can be used if you like a thicker soup. Butter or margarine can CAN WHEN YOU CAN be added before canning or at the time of use. This mixture, when opened, can be diluted with an equal amount of milk for a cream soup, or it makes a good tomato sauce, as lS. Vegetable soup concentrates are easy to make and convenient to have, too. Most any combination of vegetables ripe at once in your garden can be used.. We like celery, corn, carrots, green baby Lima beans, string beans and onion. Rice or pearl barley can be added if you like. Either beef or chicken soup stock or tomato juice can be used for liquid. Or the vegetables can be cooked in water and bouillon cubes. Milk or tomato juice can be added when the soup is heated to serve. A combination of vegetables should be processed the longest time recommended for any of the ingredients. Most recipes that call for canned tomatoes also call for, or would be improved by, some celery, onion, and parsley, so why not put the combination together in a batch or two at the time of canning? 'These same vegetables can be added to tomatoes before straining for juice. Other batches of tomato juice might be spiced lightly with cinnamon, cloves, and allspice; and of course you will want some seasoned only with sugar and salt. Dry beans are one thing I can during the winter to round out my variety of quick meal foods. These need to be soaked and cooked just enough that they won't swell a great deal more in the jars. Use any favorite recipe for chili beans, baked beans, or pork and beans for 523 combining the ingredients, then seal up and process. Pressure cooking achieves the same tenderizing and blending of flavor as long slow baking or surface cooking. I like to make chili beans quite concentrated so an equal amount of tomato juice can be added when I open them. For beans alone, forty minutes at ten pounds pressure is sufficient, but mixtures with meat in should be processed for one hour. Quality in home-canned foods is closely related to the quality of the product canned. In _ vegetables freshness, tenderness, and the right maturity count most. In fruit, degree of ripeness and flavor are more important than size or perfection of shape. | When there is scarcity or prices are sky-high, most of us are glad for whatever we can get. If you can in quantity, you will want to watch for short cuts. Sometimes just setting up a card table, for some extra work surface, helps. Some women who have large kitchens have found that small tables with drop leaves or tiers of shelves on easy rolling casters are well worth their cost in step saving. Careful storage of jars in a clean, dry place saves time in getting them ready for use. For open kettle canning, they should be sterilized immediately before filling. The leaders of our Church have urged us to store within our homes a year's supply of food. It is a comforting thing in these chaotic times to know we are making provision to care for those we love through whatever emergencies may lie ahead. For (Continued on page 575) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1891 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NartIons" DEATH OF JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL: Lowell's health has been impaired ever since his return to this country in 1855, after concluding his diplomatic service abroad. A year and a half ago his condition became serious and a fatal termination — was feared, but his health then had a chance of recovery. About two weeks ago he became delirious, and up to Monday he recovered consciousness only at brief intervals, when he gave the members of his family signs of recognition. His death was extremely peaceful. Although it was known he could not live much longer, his death was nevertheless rather unexpected. The transition from sleep to death was so easy that for a few moments nobody in the room observed that he had ceased to breathe. His eyes were closed and they never opened. He passed away with only a heavy sigh to indicate the separation of a great soul from a worn-out body. THE MAGIC OF MUSICAL ECHOES The tender chords of the heart may be stirr'd By a sweet strain of music soft, and low, Repeating the echoes that erst were heard From the depths of the years of long ago. A lingering sweetness of cherish'd hours, Sweeps through our lives as we journey along As delicate perfume from fragrant flowers, Or the melody of some long-lost song, Which wakes in our soul where remembrance stays, The joys which e'en time can never outlive And in hours of pleasure, or darkest days A nameless charm doth their influence give. —E. B. W. OLD MAIDS ORGANIZE: The young women of Woodhaven, N. Y. Have organized an "Old Maids' Consolation Association." 'They aver that they have been neglected by the young men, and now propose to retaliate. Not to be outdone, several young men met and organized an "Old Bachelors' Sympathetic and Consolation Society.' Resolutions were adopted as follows: Resolved: That we, as representative young men of the community, deploring their hasty action in assigning themselves so prematurely to old maidenhood, earnestly request them to reconsider their action. At the same time we extend our heartfelt sympathy and penitently promise to atone for past neglect. Resolved, That we appoint a committee to attend the next meeting of the "Old Maids' Consolation Association," and do all in their power to affect a consolidation of the two societies under the title of the "Mutual Consolation Association." JUAB STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: Apostle A. H. Lund said: "T am pleased to have the privilege of meeting with the sisters, and to hear of the good work they are performing, comforting the sick, and caring for the needy, it is a great mission; it is better to be good than great; it is a mission of love to help those who are in need; look after the needy especially those who do not always ask; for there are those who can not make their wants known; give in a way that they will not feel like paupers, but sons and daughters of the same father, extend the same charity as you would to your own brothers and sisters.—Ellen Goldsbrough, Asst. Sec. Page 524 ARAH EMMITT TOUT (Mrs. Edwin F.) died in New York City, April 25, 1951, and was buried in the family's home town, Ogden, Utah. She was the wise, understanding, home-keeping mother of seven brilliant children, six daughters and one son—all singers—five of them professional. Nannie sang before the crowned heads of Europe and filled grand opera and concert engagements in London, Brussels, and Paris. Margaret (Margaret Romaine) sang in the Metropolitan Opera House, where she had leading soprano roles for seven years. Hazel (Hazel Dawn) was the famous "Pink Lady" of musical comedy fame. At Hyde Park L. D. S. Missionary street meetings, held in London, the family would open the services with their magnificent singing, walk ten blocks to another location and sing there, then move on to another group, then back to close the first meeting, and perhaps the other two. Mé4kY ELLEN CHASE, Professor of English Literature at Smith College, has written an excellent biography of Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, wife of John Davison Rockefeller, III. Mrs. Rockefeller contributed generously of her faith, energy, and personality to our American democracy, in which she Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon believed profoundly. Her marriage was the cornerstone of her life, and she was the intelligent and beloved mother of six children. ULIA PHIPPEN ELDRIDGE EVANS, age 102, died June 8, 1951, in Boise, Idaho. She crossed the plains with the Mormon pioneers in 1852 and spent nearly fifty years of her life in Coalville, Utah. She was skilled in many crafts, including bee raising, soapmaking, midwifery, and practical nursing. MARY SUSANNAH HIGGS (Mrs. Robert) Sleater, Utah's second-oldest woman, who maintained an active interest in life up to a month before her death, died May 2, at the age of 102 years. She walked across the plains and had a personal acquaintance with much of Utah's dramatic history, of which she retained vivid memories. HYLLIS McGINLEY (Mrs. Charles Hayden), a graduate of the University of Utah and contributor to well-known magazines, is considered by many as "the leading writer of light verse in America." Stones from a Glass House and A Pocket Full of Wry are among her volumes of verse. She lives a quiet, domestic life in a New York suburb with her husband and two young daughters. Page 525 C- > EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 38 AUGUST 1951 'Cease to Sind Fault One With Another HE spirit of a home has a lasting impression upon the development of a child's personality and character. While each child has inborn characteristics, the influence of the home is of profound importance in their development. It might be likened to the action of water enveloping a pebble. The pebble has its own entity; but the gradual yet continuous action of the water smoothes and polishes it. So love and understanding surrounding a child, modify, soften, and refine his undesirable traits. A less desirable home environment, on the other hand, lacking the action of an enveloping love, tends to sharpen and accentuate a child's undesirable characteristics. One of the most stunting influences on soul growth is the evil of finding fault. Where parents surround a child with critical and derogatory remarks about others, it is natural for a child to follow their example; and it is extremely difficult for him to change his attitude as he attains maturity. The pattern of finding fault is embedded too deep within him. In speaking to Relief Society the Prophet Joseph Smith admonished: Don't be limited in your views with regard to your neighbor's virtue, but beware of self-righteousness, and be limited in the estimate of your own virtues, and not think yourselves more righteous than Page 526 others; you must enlarge your souls towards each other, if you would do like Jesus, and carry your fellow creatures to Abraham's bosom (D. H. C. IV, 606). Finding fault stifles the enlargement of the soul. Instead of a heart expanding with love, it tends to contract and cause self-righteousness. Certain persons may always be expected, in their conversations, to involve one in a quagmire of fault finding, even sometimes concerning the General Authorities of the Church. 'There is an inclination to avoid such a person who seems to find his pleasure in lashing and whipping to shreds the good character of his neighbors. And yet if one follows the command, "cease to find fault one with another" (D. & C. 88:124), one would even seek to enlarge his soul toward the faultfinder, not to condone the evil but to seek to be a light to the feet of the faultfnder in love. Words learned as a child return with deeper and clearer significance as years bring a greater sensitivity to one's own shortcomings. Such are the words of that familiar and beloved refrain, "If you're the first a fault to see, be not the first to make it known." Many people recognize a fault, but blessed are the persons who do not call attention to it. To many the evil of faultfinding is one most difficult to eradicate. Although silent resolutions may re- EDITORIAL peatedly be broken, still ever before one is the command "cease to find fault one with another," and the struggle goes on. The earnest striver realizes that not only should he not search and find faults, but he should seek, in addition, to cloak the faults of his neighbor as he does his own, and constantly look for the good and desire to build up the character and the goodness of his neighbor. So will he enlarge his own soul and carry his fellow creatures to Abraham's bosom. The loving and humble servant of the Lord is so impressed with the magnitude of the work to which he has been called, in relation to his own shortcomings, that finding fault with others finds no lodgment in him. Thoughtful observation, moreover, has taught 527 him that the very faults he finds in others may be his own, and that unfortunate situations of his neighbor which he publicizes may be visited upon him. The law "judge not that ye be not judged" is to him reality.. Parents have the responsibility to live the gospel as they wish their children to live it, to banish from their home environment the evil of finding fault, and to put in its place the seeking of the good in others and the consequent enlarging of the soul. To all who are victors in this struggle there come, in the silent watches of the night, not re-echoed words of faultfinding to vex the soul, but instead a comforting closeness to the spirit of the Master. —M. C. S. > Deep in Shis Night Katherine F. Larsen Deep in this night I hear the earth's song, Quiet and sure as tomorrow's returning; Pulsing and subtle and steady and long, Rising a curve of crescendo to morning. It is release to sink earthward, to lie Passive and silent, on soft grass reclining; Ears to earth's rhythm and eyes to the sky, Almost I reach to the core of life's meaning. Here in dark stillness, my ear to earth's heart, Hurt has been banished, and sorrow and sinning; Age-old rhythm has set me apart— Quickened, renewed in me sense of beginning. Deep in this night I hear the earth's song, Quiet and sure as tomorrow's returning; Pulsing and subtle and steady and long, Rising a curve of crescendo to morning. Yam and Gelly Making—An Art Ethel C. Smith Former Member, General Board of Relief Society 'ah making of beautiful things" is one definition of art. Is not a glass of clear, sparkling jelly or a jar of rich, colorful preserves a thing of beauty? And could we not well consider as a "culinary artist" the homemaker who is able to capture within a container the full flavor and beauty with which Mother Nature has so generously endowed our fruits and berries? To become adept in this art, as in any other, one must practice and experiment. The imagination may be freely exercised in combining fruits for unusual flavors in these luscious delicacies; yet there are some rules which must be followed if the finished product is to be a success. JELLY A good jelly is clear, quivers when removed from the glass, and holds its shape. It is tender, yet firm enough so that it does not run together when cut. To jell properly, juice must contain acid and the right amount of pectin. The amount and quality of pectin in fruits vary at different stages of ripeness. Some fruits that contain sufficient pectin to jell are apples, crab apples, grapes (under-ripe), blackberries, currants, gooseberries, cranberries, huckleberries, plums, and quinces. Courtesy, General Foods 'STRAWBERRY JELLY IS DELICIOUS Page 528 JAM AND JELLY MAKING—AN ART 529 It is best to make jelly in small quantities—not more than four or six cups of juice at a time. If more juice is used it must be boiled longer, thus causing loss of flavor. Long cooking also has a tendency to darken the color of the jelly and to make it tough. General Directions for Jellymaking: Wash and drain fruit. For soft fruit and berries, add only enough water to start them cooking—about one-fourth cup to one quart of fruit. (Berries should be washed before hulling to preserve juice and flavor.) Cook ten to twenty minutes, stirring frequently. Mash fruit while it is cooking. Cut large fruits. Such as plums and apples, in pieces without paring, pitting, or coring. Barely cover with water and cook until fruit is soft. Put hot fruit into a cloth jelly bag and hang over a pan to drip. The jelly will be clearer if the bag is not squeezed. If you do wish to press the bag to get out the last drop of juice, it should be done gently and the juice strained a second time through a fresh bag or cloth. Measure the juice; heat to boiling point, and add measured sugar. Cook rapidly. The jelly stage is reached when the juice runs together and falls off the side of a spoon in a sheet instead of dripping off or running in a stream. When this point is reached, remove from heat at once. Skim and pour into hot, sterilized glasses. Fill to within one-fourth inch from top. When jelly becomes firm, pour on a thin coating of hot paraffin. When this has cooled, follow with a second coating and roll the glass so paraffin comes well up on the sides. Using these general directions, delicious jellies can be made with the following juices: Crab Apple and Rhubarh Gelly Equal parts of juice from both fruits, and three-fourths as much sugar as juice. Red Currant and Raspberry Gelly A combination of two-thirds red currant and one-third raspberry juice, with threefourths as much sugar as juice. Concord Grape Gelly Jelly made from Concord grapes is a favorite at our house. Use three-fourths as much sugar as juice, and use grapes that are slightly under-ripe. (Fully ripe grapes may be used with added pectin.) Crystals frequently form in grape jelly. To prevent this, allow the extracted juice to stand overnight. Then carefully pour juice off the sediment that has formed in the bottom of the pan. Using Commercial Pectin in Jellymaking: Fruits which do not have sufficient pectin can be used for jelly by adding the juice of another fruit containing a large amount of pectin, or by using a commercial pectin in liquid or powdered form. Many homemakers rely on this latter method as it takes the "guess work'' out of jellymaking. The addition of a commercial pectin makes it possible to use fruit at the peak of its nmpeness and flavor. It also increases the yield of jelly because of the shorter cooking period required and because more sugar can be used. In using a commercial pectin, the manufacturer's instructions should be followed exactly because the proportion of juice to sugar and the cooking method differ. Some fruits containing very little pectin (practically none when fully ripe) are peaches, pears, cherries, strawberries, rhubarb. t JAM AND JELLY MAKING—AN ART | i 531 Raspberry P reserves 3 Measuring cups ripe berries; 3 measuring cups sugar Place berries in colander or sieve and dip into pan of boiling water for one minute; then drain. Put berries and 1 cup of the sugar in a pan over moderate heat and let come to a boil. Add the second cup of sugar and boil gently for 5 minutes. Add the remaining cup of sugar and boil 5 minutes longer. Remove from heat and cool. Gently stir or shake occasionally while cooling. Let stand over night. Bottle cold and seal with hot paraffin. We «tw, MARMALADES — t Marmalades are made of a combination of fruits, often including citrus fruits. The fruit is cut in small pieces which appear throughout the clear, jelly-like syrup when the product is finished. Aeguye® _ arersd eedurseonre® ggpe Bb ER ETE v Courtesy, General Foods MARMALADE AND JELLY FOR BREAKFAST 532. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 Apricot or Peach Marmalade 6 cups apricots (or peaches), peeled and cut in small pieces 6 cups sugar 1 small can crushed pineapple (drain off most of the juice) 1 orange, peeled and cut in small pieces Cook the peel of % orange and % lemon in small amount of water until softened. Grind or cut into fine pieces. Mix all ingredients together and cook over moderate heat until of right consistency—45 minutes to 1 hour. Bottle and seal at once.; Pear Marmalade 16 cups pears, peeled, cored, and thinly sliced 1 no. 2 can sliced pineapple, cut in thin pieces 1 large or two small oranges, cut in thin pieces, without peeling. Mix fruits together and measure. Add % as much sugar as fruit. Boil over moderate heat until of right consistency—30 to 45 minutes. Watch closely and stir frequently during latter part of cooking period. About 10 minutes before removing from heat, add a half-pint of maraschino cherries, cut in pieces (do not use cherry juice). Bottle and seal at once. CONSERVES Conserves are similar to jams in consistency. They are made with a mixture of fruits. Nuts and raisins are frequently added. Gooseberry and Rhubarb Conserve 1% Ibs. Gooseberries; 1 Ib. Rhubarb; 2 Ibs. Sugar; 4 Ib. Nut meats Remove both stem and tail from gooseberries when washing. Cut rhubarb in small pieces. Combine fruits and add sugar. Boil until thick, stirring frequently. Just before removing from heat, add chopped nuts. Bottle and seal at once. Apricot Conserve 8 cups apricots (sweet pits are best); blanched apricot pits; 8 cups sugar; 1 no. 2 can pineapple (sliced or bits) Peel, pit, and cut apricots in halves. Add sugar and pineapple juice. Let stand overnight. Cook slowly for 10 minutes, skim out apricots, and add blanched apricot pits to the juice. Boil down until thick and syrupy. Cut pineapple in small pieces and combine with apricots. Add to the syrup and boil for 10 minutes. Bottle and seal at once. |: @ @ 284 4 Never let anything go to waste. Be prudent, save everything, and what you get more than you can take care of yourselves, ask your neighbors to help you consume. —Brigham Young Oven Solace Helen H. Jones WHEN my generally cheerful husband came home from the college with discouragement written in drooping shoulders and a sober face I asked unnecessarily, "Is something wrong?" Something was. Due to the international situation enrollments had dropped, and his evening class had been discontinued. Result to us? Sixty dollars less take-home pay each month. Something had to be done to help us over this disappointment. I made one of those out-size pies, with a picket fence of apple slices standing on end at the very edge to hold the top crust like a big-top over a bubbling well of fresh apples, raw sugar, and cinnamon. Then I cut a steaming piece and served it to my husband with a wedge of nippy cheese, even before dinner. My eight-year-old daughter came home from school in tears. Chuckie, whom she had considered her property, had been seen chasing another little girl across the play yard. I quickly changed my plans for dinner. Instead of ordinary meat loaf, I rolled savory dressing in an inch-thick layer of ground beef, and when the stuffed meat was baked, I decorated it, sides and top, with fluffy whipped potatoes and grated cheese. Just yesterday the college called to tell the student, who lives in my home as mother's helper, that due to her numerous cuts and lack of interest in her school work (she's in love) the dean thought it advisable that she check out of school before the "F's" she was earning went on her permanent record. By way of encouragement, I made one of those fudge-mashed potato cakes, with three quarters of an inch of marshmallow on top, over melted bitter-sweet chocolate, and served it for lunch. I am beginning to understand why I turn to my kitchen stove in times of trouble. It's not that I'm a natural cook like my mother and sisters. There is a deeper reason for my visit to the neighbors when there's been a death in the family, and there is a definite purpose of helpfulness when I take a casserole dish to the side fence for Mrs. Peterson, on the west, who has unexpected house guests, or drop in with a cake when Sister Harmon comes home from the hospital. Those folks need the food. I wonder if, when members of my family or my friends are downhearted, I turn to baking because I feel better doing something. Or it may be every woman's way of showing the disappointed or discouraged loved one that he has sympathy and understanding. After all a fragrant pie, savory meat roll, or festive cake, may be more articulate than words in saying, "Anyway, I still love you." —>— Among the Ferns Eva Willes Wangsgaard I meant to take a moment's ease Out where the skies were tall Among the ferns beneath the trees, A moment, that was all. I gathered fronds. Before I knew I was a mile away. That moment stretched as shadows do And covered half a day. Page 533 Boxes For Beauty Celia L. Luce HEN you picture your dream cottage, it is not of just a house you dream. Around the cottage will be flowers and trees and shrubs. 'The house and gardens will be a complete, harmonizing unit. There are many ways to make your planting a harmonizing part of the house. One of the best is by the use of planting boxes. These bring the flowers closer to the house Bihan pavditantidenrssee ee ce cave Willard uige "Planting boxes bring the flowers closer to the house and make them seem a part of it." Page 534 passersby. And make them seem to be a part of it. Often they repeat the materials used in the house. For example, a chimney may be made of stone, and the planting boxes may repeat the stone. 'Planting boxes also provide color emphasis that can point up a good feature of a house. Used by the door they make the eye travel to the door, and the house seems to invite you to enter. Or window boxes may draw the eye to a beautiful window, and thus provide a glimpse of flowered coolness for the folks inside the house. Is your house too high in front? Often a house built over a basement looms up and seems to look down on folks outside. It seems to draw haughty skirts away from the Tall shrubs are often used to bring the front of the house down and give it a friendly look, but planting boxes also have a use here. 'They break up the uninteresting tall lines with horizontal accents. They give a friendly smile instead of a haughty glare. Use planting boxes with care, however. They should be planned with the house and seem part of it. They should be made of harmonizing materials, for planting boxes can easily become so important that they draw attention away from the house and spoil the whole effect. Using planting boxes is like using salt: the right amount brings out the true flavor, while with too much you taste nothing but the salt. BOXES FOR BEAUTY 535 Willard Luce GERANIUM WINDOW BOX This planting box serves three purposes in this small house of knotty pine. Built of the same material as the house, it brings the garden and the house into close relationship. It helps to unify the two parts of the garden by spanning the driveway area. Then, it breaks up the too-tall lines created by the garage doors and the living room window. Home 'Gene Romolo A house may be only four walls and a roof; Home is a house where the warp and the woof Of living are spun in more perfect strands By love and the art of a woman's deft hands. How to Make Sluffy Rugs Beatrice Squires Poelman Fay < make a rug! Now that spring housecleaning has unearthed worn-out sweaters, mackinaws, and overcoats, what better time could be found to plan a rug? Then, too, during the warm days, that part of rugmaking which makes a mess, such as npping up garments and cutting strips, can be done outdoors. The type of rug I'm suggesting is designed to use heavy work clothes, overcoats, old blankets, sweaters, in fact, almost any article discarded by those who make quilts, braided, or crocheted rugs. To make these rugs, strips of woolen material are sewed by means of a sewing machine on a back of canvas, or a back made of strips of overalls or strips of corduroy pants or pieces of heavy work clothes. Discarded tapestry material obtained at upholsters' shops can also be used successfully for the rug backs. Make the back in the shape or size desired. If pieces of material are sewed together to form the back, all raw seams should be on the side on which the woolen strips are to be sewed, and should be opened and stitched flat to avoid too heavy a seam over which to stitch the strips. The edge of the back should also be turned once and stitched, the raw edge being on the same side as the raw seams. After the back has been finished, a few lines marked with crayon on the seamed side will act as a guide to indicate where to sew the strips. On oblong or square rugs, the intersection of the diagonals drawn from opposite corners will determine the center point, while the diagonals themselves will indicate the turning point when stitching the 'rows around on the rug. Lines marked off about every six inches in from the edges act as guides to help keep the rows straight. On circular rugs, a few concentric circles drawn with a piece of crayon tied to a string are all the guide needed. Oval rugs require a combination of semicircles and straight lines for guides. With the back of the rug finished and marked, the next step is to prepare the strips to sew onto it. The thickness of the rug desired determines the width of the strips. Strips one-inch wide make quite thick rugs, and only when extremely heavy rugs are desired, is it necessary to cut them any wider. All materials, except knitted goods, should be cut on the bias. It is easier to turn corners or follow a curved line with strips cut on the bias than with those cut on the straight of the material. A second ly 3 SS Page 536 HOW TO MAKE FLUFFY RUGS «537 reason for using bias strips is this: when stitched through the center, every thread of a bias strip is anchored to the back and will not pull off when vacuumed or shaken.. Although material may unravel, the threads will not be lost, and the appearance of the rug is improved, if anything, because it becomes fluffier. Before cutting knitted sweaters or shawls, if they are not already matted or felted, I put them in very hot water and run them in the washing machine until they are felted. To stitch the wool strips to the back of the rug, begin in the center and work toward the outer edge. Stitch the first strip through the center. Then fold back the first row and stitch the second as close to it as the thickness of the material and the width of the presser foot permit. Keep repeating this procedure. Do not sew the ends of the strips of material together, nor lap them. Butt them! Pieces just two or three inches long can be used as well as the longer strips. To stitch on the strips, the longest stitch on. The machine works satisfactorily. Do not pull the strips as you sew them on, and be sure to allow plenty of material in turning corners. Otherwise, the rugs will not lie flat. To finish the edge, a second strip should be sewed on top of the last strip. This double row gives added strength to the edge as well as increasing the thickness and appearance of the edge. A strip of braided materials also makes an effective finish for some types of rugs. In making these rugs, I find that it is much easier to sew the strips for the center portion of the rug on pieces of overalls, etc. And then fasten them to the back. This does away with turning and twisting a big piece of backing material so frequently as is necessary when working in the center of the rug where the rows are so short. If on the piece of material thus used, space is left for another row or two of strips to be sewed, it can be pinned to the back and then attached permanently to it by merely stitching the next few rows through both the back and the piece of material. If I wish to use flowers and leaves in my rugs, I do not make them on the sewing machine. I fold a strip of material in two and tack the folded edge as I roll it up to form the flower. In sewing it to the back, I place the cut side up. I make leaves the same way, only they are made oval instead of round, Diana Elsworth Layton Enjoys Painting and Quiltmaking Hobbies Thelma L. Hunsaker Diana Ellsworth Layton, Safford, Arizona, who observed her fiftieth wedding anniversary with her husband, Frank M. Layton, on June 12, 1951, has found many hobbies to enrich her life and to serve and delight her friends and relatives. She embroiders pillow cases, sews braided rugs, has painted excellent pictures, made two large genealogical scrapbooks, and she owns a most unique collection of thirty-five pitchers. Quilting is her favorite hobby, and she made her first quilt, a nine-patch, when she was only eight years old. Since then she has spent many happy hours alone and with other women making quilts. When welfare quilts were needed, the Relief Society of her ward, under her direction, finished ten quilts in a day and a half. Not until 1940 did Sister Layton begin to keep a record of her quilting activities, but since that time she has worked on or completed by herself 370 quilts. Her best year was 1949, with a total of forty-five quilts. She has a rare ability of blending colors and fitting pieces together into beautiful designs. Her quilts bear out an oft-repeated slogan, which she loves: "If a thing is worth doing at all, it is worth doing well." Sister Layton spent her early life under severe pioneer conditions, fighting fever, drought, sagebrush, and mesquite. She has five children, twenty grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren. Through faith and determination, she walks again after suffering a broken hip, and she says, "It is better to wear out than to rust out." Page 538 Salad Days ~ Sara Mills a making has been going on for centuries, but it was not until the end of the nineteenth century, and, more properly speaking, our twentieth century that it became an art and a pleasure. In one small Utah town, shortly before the turn of the century, a vegetable salad shook the town's foundations. It was served at a wedding dinner by a young bride who had been away to school. The men of the town would have nothing to do with it, and said so. It may well be that the protesting fathers had a premonition that their sons and grandsons would one day be mixing the dinner salad and boasting of this effete skill. However loud their protests, salad was in the town. To stay. There are as many ways to make a salad as there are cooks. A few simple rules, however, should be observed. The first is that a green salad enhances almost any luncheon or dinner dish. A green salad may be made of one green or be a mixture of a dozen. It depends on what you have, and what you can procure, the fresher the better. To some people there is only one lettuce, the iceberg variety. To the home gardener or the salad gourmet, there is the Boston lettuce, the cos, or romaine, the prize variety, sweet and tender, with reddish leaves, the fancy escarole, and the endive. In addition, remember spinach, the tender inner leaves, young chard, and beet greens, water cress, and Chinese cabbage. Artists of the salad bowl say never to soak the leaves in water. Rather, wash each leaf separately under running water. The greens so washed should be drained on a towel, wrapped in the same towel, and placed in the refrigerator for an hour or longer for the salad par excellence. Just before the salad is to be eaten, remove the greens, breaking them into the desired size by hand. A knife will cause the tender leaves to bleed. As for French dressing, in its original state it is simply salt, vinegar, and a generous amount of oil. But there are embellishments for every taste and fancy. Most tastes call for a bit of mustard and pepper, a sprinkling of paprika, and a dash of Tabasco sauce. A few drops of Worcestershire sauce help. Then there are the herbs. Parsley, finely cut, adds flavor. 'Tarragon, fresh or dried, gives the salad a desired piquancy. Thyme, marjarom, chevril, chives give added zest. Herb-flavored vinegar, particularly tarragon, should be on the salad shelf. Frencu DRreEssING " ¢. Good vinegar % tsp. Salt " tsp. Ground pepper 1% c. Oil (preferably olive) Blend well, then beat with a fork or beater until mixture thickens. It is well to add a small cube of ice while you are beating, removing after the dressing thickens. If you like a tarter dressing, use more vinegar and less oil. For variation, use part lemon or lime juice. Use the dressing sparingly. Too much salad dressing will spoil any green, no matter how crisp and fresh. The greens should be barely coated with the dressing, not left floating. If you don't find it expedient to toss the greens at the table, do it just before the salad bowl is set on the table. Coldness is the most important ingredient of the green salad. Page 539 540 ml ~ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 If you like a garlic flavor, use only a hint. One way to get a mere hint is to rub a heel of French bread with garlic and leave it in the greens while they are being chilled and tossed. Another method is to rub a wooden salad bowl with a bead of garlic. Don't overdo the rubbing. A third way is to place a bead of garlic in the salad dressing. This should be done at least an hour before the dressing is to be used. As to onion flavor, shake a few drops of onion juice into the French dressing. And a hint about tomatoes. Some of the best chefs say they have no place in a tossed salad, that the juice is ruinous. Lettuce and tomato salad, that's a different story. French Dressing Variations: (1) Roquefort or blue cheese dressing: To each % c. French dressing, add one rounded tbsp. Of either Roquefort or blue cheese. Crumble the cheese with a - fork before it is added to the dressing, then mix well. This dressing makes a green salad a thing to be savored, and it is good with fruit salads. (2) Pickle dressing: Add 2 tbsp. Chopped pickles to each % c. French dressing. (3) Horseradish dressing: To each % c. French dressing, add 1% tbsp. Prepared horseradish (which has been squeezed through a thin cloth), % tsp. Paprika, and 2 drops of Tabasco sauce. (4) Jelly dressing for fruit salads: To each % c. French dressing, add 1 tbsp. Honey and % c. Tart, red jelly. (5) Anchovy dressing: To each % c. French dressing, add 2 - tbsp. Mashed anchovies, 1 tsp. Chopped parsley, 2 drops Tabasco sauce, and % of a chopped, hardboiled egg. (6) Beet topping: To % c. French dressing add one medium-sized chopped beet, cooked, and 1 chopped hard-boiled egg. Add this as a topping to green salad just before serving. (7) Vinaigrette dressing: To each % c. French dressing, add % tsp. Each of chopped green olives, chives, parsley, gherkins, and % of a hard-boiled egg, finely chopped. (8) Ruby dressing: To each % c. French dressing, add 1% tbsp. Red currant jelly and 1 tbsp. Cream cheese. Just before serving add % tsp. Grated orange rind. This is good for fresh fruit salads. } Below are two slightly different versions of old favorites, both inexpensive to serve: Coxe SLAW Select a fresh head of cabbage, trim and shred the cabbage finely, then chill for an hour in ice water to which a little lemon juice has been added. Drain and chill, Marinate in French dressing for an hour, then add 1 c. Finely sliced cucumber, 1 c. Finely shredded celery, and 1 little onion, chopped finest of all. When the slaw is ready to be served, add sufficient French dressing. Mix thoroughly and arrange on watercress or dark green lettuce leaves. CUCUMBER SALAD Cut and discard both ends from a chilled cucumber. Pare and slice in thin slices. Sprinkle the slices with salt and place a heavy weight over the cucumbers, leaving the The Silken Bond. Alice Morrey Bailey -ELEN Vincent would not leave the bus until it pulled out with her mother and her baby. Her mother cared for Nora Sue a hundred miles away while Helen worked in the city. Every week-end she went home, or her mother brought the baby to see her, yet the partings were awful. Helen kept her mouth and the muscles of her face steady, but she could not control the tears that wet her face, slid down her cheeks. "Only for a week," she told herself, but you couldn't tell that to an eleven-month old baby. So far as little Nora Sue knew, it might be forever. It was that very thing that tore her heart out, for the baby clung to her with soft little arms and pleading, apprehensive eyes, turning her heart to water. "No no," Nora Sue kept saying. "She's trying to say her name," Mother said, but Helen knew better. She was saying: "No! Nol! Mama, don't leave me. No! No! No!" It was no use to tell herself that Nora Sue was getting the best of care, perhaps even better than she ~ herself would give the baby, that Nora Sue would be fine with mother, and happy, once the parting was over. Helen gave a quick glance at her mother, sitting quietly, her good face noncommittal, her eyes withholding judgment for the baby's upset schedule. Mother was a stickler for schedules. Page 542 "She'll cry awhile, Mother, but she's tired. She'll go to sleep right away and sleep until you get home, and I'll be home Saturday if I have to fly." "Yes," answered her mother. It was as if there were a silken bond between Helen's heart and Nora Sue's, pulled thin with pain by the departing bus. When she could no longer see the top of Nora Sue's bonnet, Helen put her hands to her face and wept. Craig Ryan detached himself from the shadow of the station and, taking her arm, guided her silently to his car and put her in. Good old Craig—so patiently bringing her every other week to see them off _ and meeting her at the bus terminal on her return from her visits home. He was the man with the desk next to hers at work, and she had fallen easily into accepting a ride home with him to her apartment, which she shared with a home-town girl. Craig was good, comfortable, and undemanding. — "I hate to see you knocking yourself out every week like this," he said now, "and this is as hard on Nora Sue as it is on you." "Craig, do you really think so? Mother says she forgets me right away and is happy while I'm gone. Babies forget easily." "According to the latest psychology, babies never forget. They say your memory is a permanent record that starts even before your birth. Things like this make scars that THE SILKEN BOND may never heal. 'They lead to all sorts of nervous disorders, and even physical ones." "IT couldn't bear it if I believed that." "Can you bear it now? Are you happy, Helen?" "No. Certainly I'm not happy, but what do you suggest? That I don't see her so often?": "Oh, no. That you see her more often." "But how? I spend all my free time now, going back and forth. Be reasonable, Craig. Should I quit my job and go home? Be a parasite on my parents?" "Do you really think it would be harder on your mother to have both you and the baby there than for your mother to have the whole responsibility of Nora Sue?" "I guess I wasn't thinking so much of my mother as my father, and the money it takes. You know there are no jobs in that tiny little town." "And if there were a job, and you took it," persisted Craig, "you'd have this same struggle every day instead of every week. No. A woman like you, any woman with a baby, should be with it. A mother should not leave her baby to make a living. She should have a husband to do that." "And if I don't have a husband, what then? You know my husband "? Was "Yes, killed. Seventeen months ago, I believe." "Well, then! Are you trying to make it harder for me, Craig?, |] know that's what the Church teaches—that women should stay home with their babies, but." 543 "But it doesn't apply to you," Craig chided. | "Craig, you're maddening. What else could I do?" "You could get married, among other things, to me." Just ELEN sat bolt upright and looked straight ahead into the night. "Why, Craig, I hadn't thought of that." "I know you hadn't," said Craig. "Keep looking straight ahead. Tell me what I look like. What color are my eyes? Is my hair curly or straight? Go ahead, tell me." "Why, Craig," Helen exclaimed in amazement. "I don't know. Six months working by you, and I don't know! I didn't know anybody could be that stupid." "Not stupid, just disinterested. You've never really looked at me. And you don't know anything about me—that I had a wife and lost her, that I have a little boy four years old." Waves of shame went over Helen. "I'm selfish, self-centered," she said. "That's the only explanation." "Right," said Craig. "I'm not blaming you. I just know how it is because I've been through it. I figure it is about time you snapped out of it, that's all." "Craig, how good you are! How good you've always been! But marriage! Did you mean a marriage of convenience—me being a mother to your little boy, and you looking after me and Nora Sue?" "No," said Craig. "I've looked at you, girl. I know your eyes are gray and your mouth is sweet. I know you are all mother, all love, 544 with a character straight as a ramrod and a mind that would challenge any man. I meant to wait until you showed some interest in me, but I haven't, and I love you too much to be satisfied with half a loaf." "Craig, I don't know what to say. You've been so kind, but I don't " 'Don't say it," he told her swiftly. "You couldn't really know, yet, whether you could love me or not, and believe me, it is essential. Home is a pattern, Helen, with men and women and children playing distinct roles, a pattern that has always been. It is a divine plan, and one of great wisdom. 'The modern psychologists are just now learning about it, how it fills each need. When mothers of young children go out of the home to earn, the pattern is broken and fundamental needs are unfilled." "You've thought a lot about it, haven't you, Craig?" CRAIG laughed. "I guess I sound like a preacher, but I have thought a good deal about it, being both father and mother to 'Timmie. If trouble doesn't make you think, nothing will. When we have lost that pattern of home in this world, we have lost everything. The few of us that know it should fight for it, just like our forefathers fought for freedom." "T haven't thought very much. All I've done is feel." | "You just keep on feeling, honey, but think, too. Think about me, and if you ever change your mind come running and tell me." At her door he took her in his arms and kissed her, stirring mixed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 emotions, surprise not the least of them. Next day Craig was his old, undemanding self. Helen would have thought she dreamed last night's episode, but once he caught her looking at his eyes, and grinned. It was just like any other day, except that he didn't invite her to ride home, just waved gaily and drove off, Chagrin fought with a sense of justice, and a little, lost feeling in the pit of her stomach. It was more than the inconvenience of taking a bus home after the months of riding. For the first time in almost a year and a half Helen suddenly realized she was all alone. First there had been her parents, full of sympathy for her, doing all they could to make her happy, then Nora Sue, coming like a message from heaven. And when she had left home Craig had been there, right from the first day when he became the supervisor of her new office routine. Now, suddenly, he was gone, too, and she was alone. She didn't think of him occasionally during the days that followed. She couldn't keep her mind off him, off the things he had said. She knew. That his eyes were a deep, penetrating blue, and his brown hair was curly. Yet it was the comtadeship she longed to have restored. The real barrier was the truths he had told her, the pattern he had described. All around her she could — see it. More than half the women working in the office were married, and many of them had babies left at home in the care of someone else —their mothers, baby tenders, nurs- THE SILKEN BOND ery schools, or husbands who were out of work. "When we lose that pattern," Craig had said. None of the women seemed to have the valid reasons Helen thought she had. Some were helping the family income, some wanted new things, perhaps a home, or clothes, or furniture, and their voices kaleidoscoped in Helen's nightmares. "The more I work, the less he makes." "My baby is crazy about the nursery. You'd think she wasn't my child any longer." "I used to feel sick about leaving little Billy, but you get used to anything." Surely Craig was right, and the pattern of home was being lost by hundreds of men and women, thousands, men and women who could never retrieve the lost years. HELEN grew thin and nervous and more and more unhappy. She paid her father for the money he had spent on her doctor and hospital bills, but the sense of accomplishment was missing. He took the money unwillingly, a look of shame in his eyes. "T didn't mean for you to pay me back, Daughter. If a man can't take care of his women-folk there's no use for him on this earth. I'm only taking this to make you happy." It didn't make her happy at all. Her father sounded like Craig. Maybe all men felt the same way, useless and ashamed when their women usurped their privileges. Maybe that was why some men just gave up and quit, others did outlandish things to prove their masculinity. Craig was right, but oh, how painful it was to think! In her 545 loneliness and bewilderment the difficulty of parting each week from Nora Sue intensified to an all but unbearable degree. "Craig," she asked one day. "Do you think I could have my vacation early?" "What's up?" he inquired, and there was a quick, watchful look in his eyes. "It's Nora Sue. I've reached the point where I can't go on this way a minute longer. I used to like my job, but now I sit at my desk and feel that everything I do is unimportant, that the most important thing of my life is slipping through my fingers." "It is, Helen, believe me," Craig said earnestly. "And once it's gone, there's no going back after it." "I just have to have a couple of weeks with Nora Sue." "Good girl," Craig applauded. "TI see what I can do." That night he offered her a ride home. She tried to have pride enough to refuse it, but couldn't. Vexing as he was, his presence restored her miraculously. He took her to dinner and to a show, and it was too enjoyable to protest that she should be home packing. He saw her off, and it was like the old days, only now it was something to be treasured, having him see to her ticket and baggage, getting her comfortable and chatting in the aisle. "I wanted to meet Timmie," she said. "Really? Nothing I'd like better than to show him off—the proud father in me, you know." "As soon as I get back?" 546 "Now look, darling.. If you get lonesome down there don't call in your old beaux. Yell for me." Darling! He had called her. When it was time to go he tilted her chin with a finger to kiss her goodbye, a casual kiss, but it sent prickles along her spine. It was heaven to be home, to bathe and feed Nora Sue, to teach her new words, sew attractive clothes for her, and get caught up on her baby book. Only there were so many gaps—like the day Nora Sue walked. It was unexpected. She was clinging to a nearby chair just too far from Helen to reach. With her. Little arms spread for balance, she took off, reaching her mother in a breathless moment.: "She walked!" Helen cried. "Mother, come quickly. 'Three whole steps. Now, there's something for her baby book. Nora Sue's first steps." "No," her mother contradicted. "She took her first steps a month ago." "You didn't tell me," said Helen,. Sick with disappointment. It was as Craig said. You couldn't go back and pick it up. HERE were only two things that marred the perfection of her visit. The first was the change in Nora Sue. She seemed blissfully happy going about her baby business, but if she inadvertently guided her walker into another room, looked up and missed her mother, she came back pell-mell, anxiety written on her baby features, crying, "Mama, Mama," until she saw Helen and could lay her head against her mother's knee in relief and comfort. Or, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 if Helen thoughtlessly left the room, Nora Sue would scream until it was difficult to believe she wasn't injured.; "IT declare, Helen, "you'll have that baby so spoiled I won't be able to handle her when you're gone," her mother warned. The other thing that marred her visit was Craig. Before the week was up she missed him terribly. "If you get lonesome..." he had said, so she called him. "Come down over the week-end and bring Timmie. We'll have a picnic Saturday and Sunday we'll take our babies to Sunday School." "Right. Before the population, Helen? Are you sure? 'There'll be no turning back after that. A churchgoing man with a family!" "I think you are falling in love with that young man, Helen," her mother said when she hung up. "He asked me to marry him, Mother." "He did!. And you turned him down?" "T wasn't ready for him. Now I've changed my mind, and maybe he won't ask me again.. He's been sort of distant with me. Craig's very unusual, Mother. You'll get to know him better on the picnic." "I know him now, Helen. - I've always liked Craig," said her mother, and added. "I hope you don't mind if your father and I don't go on the picnic. Your father is weeding beets, and I have my pickles to do." "Mother thought we should be alone," Helen told Craig next day when they had put the lunch and the babies in the car and he looked expectantly toward the house. THE SILKEN BOND "Your mother is a wise, good woman," Craig said, tucking Timmie between himself and Helen. He chucked Nora Sue under the chin, winked at Helen and started the car. IMMIE was a thoughtful little boy. Helen warmed to his baby _chubbiness and manly little face. Nora Sue was wild about him from the first. She seemed to know he was different from adults and she threw herself upon him, giving him big, wet kisses. The little boy laughed and hugged her clumsily. "She likes me, Daddy," he told his father. "Could we take her home and let me have her for my very own so I could play with her?" "T know how you feel, Son," Craig said. "I'm that way about her mother." They were spreading their lunch under the willows on the big meadow and there was little time to talk. Once, between interruptions, Craig asked: "How about it, Helen? Have you thought any more about that pattern I described?" 547 "T haven't thought of much else," admitted Helen ruefully. "You're right, Craig, all down the line." "Have you thought any more about—well, me? Have you changed your mind?" "I thought you had, not taking me home any more." "My not taking you home was the ultimate of heroism. It 'takes real courage to see the woman you love trudge wearily home after a hard day at the office, but I had to do something." "You might have tried candy or flowers, a little moonlight, and a little romance." "Too misleading," pronounced Craig. "You'd expect it after we were married." "I would not. We've a family to rear, and no nonsense." "Great day!" cried Craig, and knocked the mustard over to take her in his arms. The babies, catching the infection, came scrambling to be hugged and kissed also. "Nothing like the whole family being engaged," Craig murmured happily, and Helen agreed. <i Poppies i, Oommen Linnie F. Robinson I never see a poppy But my heart is cut with pain— Although my own are flaunting A crimson through the rain. Mine was a doll-less childhood But a friend would often call, And we made a hundred bonnets Before the days of fall. A burdock leaf could fold its brim A poppy make a dashing trim. (Later, my friend's true lover lay Beneath the sod where poppies sway). Now, in a crowded city, Hats are made at her least whim; But only once a year she puts A poppy on the brim. From The Field ay — ae: Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Grace Ensign UNIVERSITY STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), ELEVENTH WARD FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT SOCIAL May 21, 1951 Front row, seated, left to right: Jennie Brockbank (1929-1935); Florence Donkin (1938-1942); Lillie Knight (1919-1929): Myra Patterson (1947-1950). Back row, standing, left to right: Fanny Kienitz, President, University Stake Relief Society; Effie Yates (1935-38); Alice Halgren (1946-47); Olive Thomas (1942- 46); Grace Ensign (1950- ). Page 548 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 549 Photograph submitted by Laura M. Wilkin OQUIRRH STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS WHO FURNISHED THE MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, October 1950 Photograph taken in July 1950 Chorister Bessie Rasmussen stands at the left (in black dress), and the organist, Iretta Arve, stands at the nght (in black dress). Stake Relief Society President Laura M. Wilkin is seated center front. Photograph submitted by Alice I. Ferrin GRIDLEY STAKE (CALIFORNIA), CHICO WARD SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR MARCH PROGRAM, 1951 Left to nght: Dawn Leatham, organist; Lucretia Algood; Irene Allred; Irene Zundel; Arvilla Graham; Margaret Clawson; Helen Butler; Estelle Dunton; Jeanette Landerman; Carol Johnson; Nora Salter; Alice Ferrin; Jean Lowen; Amber Bodine; Carol Knowlton, director. For the March program these sisters very successfully sang "If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments" by Florence Jepperson Madsen of the general board of Relief Society. Alice I. Ferrin is president of Gridley Stake Relief Society. 550 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 Photograph submitted by Venna H. Croft IDAHO FALLS STAKE, IDAHO FALLS NINTH WARD HONORS ELDERLY MEMBERS AT CHRISTMAS PARTY, DECEMBER 1950 Front row, seated, left to nght: Cora White (80); Annie Hansen (83); Etta Webster (75); Elnora Beckstrand (82); Sarah Storer (71). _ Back row, standing, left to mght: Mary Butler (76); Mildred Miskin (67); Martha Davenport (66); Sarah Boyle (76); Delight Young (76); Isabelle Heileson (71). A beautiful corsage was presented to each woman, as an original poem written about her was read. Leda Webster is president of the Idaho Falls Ninth Ward Relief Society, and Venna H. Croft is president of Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Jean D. Wright SOUTH AFRICAN MISSION, BELLVILLE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY COMPLETES ITS FIRST YEAR OF ORGANIZATION Left to right: First Counselor Madge Halse; Amy Geneve Halse; President Jeanette Goasen; Secretary-Treasurer Dorothe Storey; Beryl Halse. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 551 This Branch Relief Society was organized March 23, 1950, with four members. At present there are six members, and the average attendance is five. Four of the members live more than ten miles away. At the time of organization the members donated $2.25 to the society and the fund was used to purchase materials for making articles for the bazaar. From March to October (1950) 166 garments were completed, requiring 247 hours of work. All of the sisters completed work in their homes and donated generously of their time and means. During this period seventy-five visits to the sick were made, and forty-three hours were spent in otherwise assisting in homes where there was illness. Once every month a branch social is held. Although living over a very scattered area, these sisters feel very close to each other, and through Relief Society a real bond of love and friendship has been formed. Jean D. Wright is president of the South African Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Rosalee Barley CALIFORNIA MISSION, COCOPAH (SOMERTON, CALIFORNIA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Secretary Rosalee Barley is seated center front (with basket). She is well-educated and speaks and understands English, and is untiring in her efforts to aid her people to gain a better understanding of the gospel. Sister Mary H. Stoddard, President, California Mission Relief Society, reports that the Cocopah Branch (located twelve miles from Yuma, Arizona) is very active, with Elders Ronald B. Anderson and W. Leon Hammond laboring there among the Lamanite people, ably assisted by the branch president, W. Chad Cox and his wife, Cerise Merrill Cox, who is the branch Relief Society president. At the recent Yuma District Conference nearly one hundred Cocopah Indians were present. Sister Barley, in a beautifully written letter, describes some of the activities of this Relief Society: ""This picture was taken at our Easter social. We were wearing small paper Easter bonnets which we had designed and made in a contest that day. We Cocopah Indians have just 'drifted' across the Mexican border, and we are living in homes scattered over the sand hills of the Yuma and Somerton Valleys. We do not get any help from the Government, and most of us have to struggle to obtain the bare necessities of life. Our Relief Society was organized last February, and we love to go to our meetings and learn things to help us in our homes, and how to make quilts and things we need. We also like to learn more about our Church."' 552 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 Photograph submitted by Jessie S. Reese SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH), SMITHFIELD FIRST WARD BAZAAR: February 1951 Standing, left to right: President Venna Johnson and First Counselor Florence Nelson. This photograph shows only part of this varied and attractive bazaar. Other displays included many articles of children's clothing, hand-embroidered _pillowslips, blouses, tablecloths, and many other items. This activity brought the members closer together and a great deal of good was accomplished. Alta C. Allen is president of Smithfield Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Clare K. Claridge MT. GRAHAM STAKE (ARIZONA, TEXAS, NEW MEXICO) VISITING TEACHERS LUNCHEON, April 27, 1951, Safford, Arizona Front row, seated, beginning second from the left and following around the table: Bishop Chester John Peterson of Safford Ward, and wife; First Counselor Isadore NOTES FROM THE FIELD 553 _ Owens, Mt. Graham Stake Relief Society; President Thelma G. Maloy; Secretary-Treasurer Clare K. Claridge; Laura Blake, board members; Second Counselor Ellis Hoopes; Magazine agent Myrtle Tenney; Julia Claridge Ellsworth, board member. Seated across the table from Bishop Peterson is Sister Lucinda Merrell, Indian Relations member of the board, wearing light-colored dress. Corsages of beautiful flowers were given to the women as they entered the chapel. After the opening meeting luncheon was served, and a varied program was conducted, consisting of music, talks, a reading, and an interesting skit. Of the sixteen Relief Society organizations in Mt. Graham Stake, thirteen were represented, a number of women coming from as far away as E] Paso, Texas, a distance of 250 miles. A gift was presented to Sister Maude Johns, as recognition for fifty years of visiting teacher service. Photograph submitted by Leila G. Eldredge SOUTH DAVIS STAKE (UTAH) "TALENT REVIEW," April 11, 1951 Front row, seated, left to right: Julia Kesler, who read her original poem "Flowers"; May Neilson, who composed music and words to the song "I Waltz in Your Arms in a Dream"; Wandrella Eggett, who read her poem "What America Means to Me'; Fannie Hayes, who read her poem "Beatitudes"; Hazel Child, who read i ae "My People'; Rose Mangus, who wrote the words for the song ''Beautiful tah." Second row, seated, left to right: Marjorie Hughs, who wrote the words and the music for the song "Some Day I'll Have You'; Mary Alice Eakle, who assisted in the arrangement of the skit ""We Never, Never Gossip"; Marjorie P. Winegar, who wrote the words for the skit; Zelda D. Howard, who read her poem "The Power of Prayer"; Gladys Price, who read her poem "Too Busy"; Bernice Bywater, who wrote the skit "The Relief Society Red Hen." Back row, standing, left to right: Second Counselor Mona H. Haacke; President Leila G. Eldredge; First Counselor Ireta A. Page; Dora Webb, who wrote the music for the song "Give and Receive"; Grace Hill who wrote the words for "Give and Receive." Every number presented in this entertainment, except one, was entirely original. Fifty stake Singing Mothers participated, and every ward in the stake was represented by some number. 554 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 Photograph submitted by Afton N. Christensen DUCHESNE STAKE (UTAH), DUCHESNE WARD HONORS SIX RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS AT SOCIAL, March 17, 1951 Left to right, former presidents: Florence Madsen; Margaret Casper Euald; Myrtle Wilcken; Faye Merkley, present Duchesne Stake Relief Society President; Elizabeth Rowley and Rhoda Clement; Mattie Anderson, present president. Photograph submitted by Gladys K. Wagner JUAREZ STAKE (MEXICO) HONORS STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENT NELLIE S. HATCH FOR TWENTY-TWO YEARS OF SERVICE November 27, 1950 Standing, left to right, ward and branch presidents who have served under the presidency of Nellie S. Hatch: Rhoda C. Taylor (Dublan Ward); Angela Brown (Mexican Branch); President Nellie S. Hatch; Regina Gonzales and Delfina Ontiveros (Mexican Branch); Genevieve Johnson (Pacheco Ward). Inset, left to right: Irene Martineau (Juarez Ward); Ada Whetten (Chuichupa Ward); Margaret Cluff (Pacheco Ward). Gladys K. Wagner is the new president of Juarez Stake Relief Society, appointed in September 1950. LESSON DEPARTMENT ny Le Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 2—The Witnesses to The Book of Mormon Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: "The Testimony of Three Witnesses"; ""And Also The Testimony of Eight Witnesses.'') For Tuesday, November 6, 1951 Objective: the principle of witnesses. S the Prophet Joseph neared the completion of his translation of The Book of Mormon, he translated the following verses: And behold, ye may be privileged that ye may show the plates unto those who shall assist to bring forth this work; and unto three shall they be shown by the power of God; wherefore they shall know of a surety that these things are true (Ether 5:2-3). The Three Witnesses Cognizant of this message, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris were anxious to become the three special witnesses to whom the plates should be shown by the power of God. Accordingly, they requested that Joseph inquire of the Lord to see if they might not be given that privilege. Subsequently, Joseph did inquire. He received the following revelation, directed to these three men: Behold, I say unto you, that you must rely upon my word, which if you do with To establish the authenticity of The Book of Mormon according to full purpose of heart, you shall have a view of the plates, and also of the breastplate, the sword of Laban, the Urim and Thummim, which were given to the brother of Jared upon the mount, when he talked with the Lord face to face, and the miraculous directors which were given to Lehi while in the wilderness, on the borders of the Red Sea. And it is by your faith that you shall obtain a view of them, even by that faith which was had by the prophets of old. And after that you have obtained faith, and have seen them with your eyes, you shall testify of them, by the power of God (Doctrine and Covenants 17:1-3). After thus designating the conditions under which these three men were to have a view of the plates, the Lord explained in the same revelation his reason for providing witnesses: And this you shall do that my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., may not be destroyed, that I may bring about my righteous purposes unto the children of men in this work (Doctrine and Covenants 17:4). Page 555 556 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 Photograph by Otto Done PLAQUE ON THE ANGEL MORONI MONUMENT THE HILL CUMORAH, NEW YORK Torlief Knaphus, Sculptor Soon after this revelation was re-_ plates. Joseph prayed first. He was ceived, Joseph, Oliver, David, and followed by each one of the others. Martin retired to the woods near 'This first series of petitions did not the Whitmer home in Fayette, New bring the blessing they requested. York, and asked the Lord in humble Again they prayed in rotation, tryprayer to give them a view of the ing to exercise the necessary faith LESSON DEPARTMENT to open the channels of communication between God and man. Still, they did not receive an answer. Martin Harris, feeling that his presence was the cause for their lack of success, withdrew from the others and retired to another part of the wood. Joseph, Oliver, and David then knelt in prayer. Joseph wrote of this glorious experience as follows: Presently we beheld a light above us in the air, of exceeding brightness; and behold, an angel stood before us. In his hands he held the plates which we had been praying for these to have a view of. He turned over the leaves one by one, so that we could see them, and discern the engravings thereon distinctly. He then addressed himself to David Whitmer, and said, "David, blessed is the Lord, and he that keeps His commandments"; when, immediately afterwards, we heard a voice from out of the bright light above us, saying, "These plates have been revealed by the power of God, and they have been translated by the power of God. The translation of them which you have seen is correct, and I command you to bear record of what you now see and hear" (D. H. C. I, pp. 54, 55; see also "Interview with David Whitmer," The Elder's Journal, lV, pp. 383-387). After this glorious manifestation, Joseph went in search of Martin Harris, whom he found at a considerable distance fervently engaged in prayer. Martin requested Joseph to join him in prayer, and they ultimately obtained their desires. Regarding this vision, Joseph wrote: The same vision was opened to our view, at least it was again opened to me, and I once more beheld and heard the same things; whilst at the same moment, Martin Harris cried out, apparently in an ecstasy of joy, "'Tis enough; 'tis enough; mine eyes have beheld; mine eyes have beheld;" and jumping up, he shouted, "Hosanna"; blessing God, and otherwise rejoiced exceedingly (D. H. C. I, page 55). 557 By exercising faith in God, these witnesses had gained their request. Now they were under obligation by divine decree to testify to the world concerning that which they had seen and heard. Obedient to divine command, they prepared and signed the following testimony: Be it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, unto whom this - work shall come: That we, through the grace of God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, have seen the plates which contain this record, which is a record of the people of Nephi, and also of the Lamanites, their brethren, and also of the people of Jared, who came from the tower of which hath been spoken. And we also know that they have been translated by the gift and power of God, for his voice hath declared it unto us; wherefore we know of a surety that the work is true. And we also testify that we have seen the engravings which are upon the plates; and they have been shown unto us by the power of God, and not of man. And we declare with words of soberness, that an angel of God came down from heaven, and he brought and laid before our eyes, that we beheld and saw the plates, and the engravings thereon, and we know that it is by the grace of God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, that we beheld and bear record that these things are true. And it is marvelous in our eyes. Nevertheless, the voice of the Lord commanded us that we should bear record of it; wherefore, to be obedient unto the commandments of God, we bear testimony of these things. And we know that if we are faithful in Christ, we shall rid our garments of the blood of all men, and be found spotless before the judgment-seat of Christ, and shall dwell with him eternally in the heavens. And the honor be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost, which is one God. In giving this testimony, these three men bear witness of an event which is definitely within the realm of probability. Angelic visitations 558 form an important part of the ecclesiastical history given in the Holy Bible. Sincere Christians, world over, do not question the validity of such ministrations. Though we recognize that as men they had their weaknesses, these witnesses, whether friendly to the Church, or disaffected, always remained true to their testimony as 'quoted above. Oliver and David were excommunicated from _ the Church after a trial before the high council in Far West, Missouri; Joseph, himself, testifying against Oliver in the trial. Martin Harris, alienated in feeling against the main body of the Church, remained behind when the saints came westward, rejoining them later in the declining years of his life. Judge C. M. Nielsen relates an interesting narrative that came to him concerning an experience had by Oliver Cowdery during the period of time he was embittered towards the Church. The original author of this narrative gave the following account of Oliver as prosecuting attorney before a crowded court: Finally Oliver Cowdery arose, calm as a summer morning. I was within three feet of him. There was no hesitation, no fear, no anger in his voice, as he said: "May it please the court, and gentlemen of the jury, my brother attorney on the other side has charged me with connection with Joseph Smith and the golden Bible. The responsibility has been placed upon me, and I cannot escape reply. Before God and man I dare not deny what I have said, and what my testimony contains as written and printed on the front page of The Book of Mormon. May it please your honor and gentlemen of the jury, this I say, I saw the angel and heard his voice—how can I deny it? It happened in the daytime when the sun the. + RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 was shining bright in the firmament; not in the night when I was asleep. That glorious messenger from heaven, dressed in white, standing above the ground, in a glory I have never seen anything to compare with—the sun insignificant in comparison—and this personage told us if we denied that testimony there is no forgiveness in this life nor in the world to come. Now how can I deny it—I dare not; I will not" (Liahona, August 30, 1910, reprinted in NIBLEY, PRESTON: The Witnesses of the Book of Mormon, page 45). Subsequently, Oliver Cowdery came back into the Church. He died reaffirming the truth of the divine authenticity of The Beok of Mormon. David Whitmer wrote of the death of Oliver Cowdery as follows: I was present at the deathbed of Oliver Cowdery, and his last words were, "Brother David, be true to your testimony of the Book of Mormon." He died here in Richmond, Missourn, on the third of March, 1850. Many witnesses yet live in Richmond, who will testify to the truth of these facts, as well as to the good character of Oliver Cowdery (RoBerTs, BricHAM H.: New Witnesses for God, II, page 257). David Whitmer, throughout a long, honorable, and a busy life spent outside our Church, for he never came back into the organization after his excommunication, frequently bore his testimony concerning the divine origin of The Book of Mormon (Ibid., p. 258- 265). David Whitmer's final testimony, given just before his death on January 12, 1888, was as follows: I want to say to you all that the Bible and the record of the Nephites (Book of Mormon) are true, so you can say that you have heard me bear my testimony on my deathbed (Ibid., page 256). LESSON DEPARTMENT In July 1950, while in Richmond, Missouri, the writer of these lessons met Charles Whitmer, a man eighty-two years of age. He informed him that David Whitmer was his great uncle, and that as a boy fifteen years of age, he heard David Whitmer bear his testimony concerning his view of the golden plates. Martin Harris was equally as steadfast in his testimony as were Oliver and David. He did not come westward until 1870, but the records show that he always bore a fervent testimony concerning the divine authenticity of The Book of Mormon. He died in Clarkston, Utah, in 1875, reaffirming his lifelong testimony. His son, Martin Harris, Junior, said concerning his' father's last words: He has continued to talk about and testify to the truth of the Book of Mormon, and was in his happiest mood when he could get somebody to listen to his testimony; if he felt dull and weary at times, and some one would come in and open up a conversation and give him an opportunity of talking, he would immediately revive and feel like a young man, for a little while. We begin to think he has borne his last testimony. The last audible words he has spoken were something about the witnesses of the Book of Mormon, but we could not understand what it was (Ibid., page 268). When we consider the fact that the visions given to these three witnesses were in. Two different parts of the wood; the first vision to Joseph, Oliver, and David; and the second one to Joseph and Martin, and also remember that the visions were in the broad light of day, we certainly must conclude that these witnesses could not have been mistaken. They were not deluded. 559 If we eliminate the possibility of mistake, we have only two other alternatives left, either they were deliberate prevaricators planning to deceive mankind through collusion with Joseph Smith, or they bore a testimony of that which they actually saw and heard. The occurrences detailed in this lesson, and there are many more of equal validity, lead us to conclude that every circumstance helps to rule out the possibility of collusion. The steadfastness with which these witnesses adhered to their testimony even after they had become alienated against Joseph Smith and the Church, is strong evidence against any idea of collusion to perpetuate a monumental fraud upon mankind. Moreover, the fact that two of these three witnesses, Oliver after eleven years, and Martin Harris after thirty-three years, came back into the Church is more convincing proof that there was no collusion. Hungry for that which they knew to be true, they came back into the Church, not as leaders, but as humble followers. The testimony of the three witnesses is valid. It is sufficient to convince God-fearing men_ that The Book of Mormon was translated from golden plates and that the translation is correct. The Eight Witnesses Convincing as the testimony of the three witnesses is, we are not asked to believe in the divinity of The Book of Mormon on _ the strength of their statements alone. We have the testimony of eight other men who were shown the plates by Joseph, himself. These 560 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 Photograph by Otto Done PLAQUE ON THE ANGEL MORONI MONUMENT THE HILL CUMORAH, NEW YORK Torlief Knaphus, Sculptor eight men, Christian Whitmer, Joseph Smith, Sen., Hyrum Smith, Jacob Whitmer, Peter Whitmer, and Samuel H. Smith drew. Up and Jun., John Whitmer, Hiram Page, signed the following testimony: LESSON DEPARTMENT Be it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, unto whom this — work shall come: That Joseph Smith, Jun., the translator of this work, has shown unto us the plates of which hath been spoken, which have the appearance of gold; and as many of the leaves as the said Smith has translated we did handle with our hands; and we also saw the engravings thereon, all of which has the appearance of ancient work, and of curious workmanship. And this we bear record with words of soberness, that the said Smith has shown unto us, for we have seen and hefted, and know of a surety that the said Smith has got the plates of which we have spoken. And we give our names unto the world, to witness unto the world that which we have seen. And we lie not, God bearing witness of it. Christian Whitmer, Peter Whitmer, Joseph Smith, Sen., Hyrum Smith, and Samuel H. Smith were faithful and true to the Church and died in full fellowship. Never did any one of the five ever deny his testimony. John Whitmer was excommunicated from the Church by the high council in Far West, Missouri. Although he never joined the Church again, after his excommunication in 1838, he was always true to his testimony in regard to the Book of Mormon. Even in his darkest days, and at the time he first turned his back upon the Church and the Prophet Joseph, he declared in the presence of a number of Missourians— enemies to the work of God—that he knew the Book of Mormon was true. His nephew, John C. Whitmer, of Richmond, Missouri, who was with him a few days before his death, testifies that he bore testimony to the truth of the Book of Mormon until the last, which is corroborated by many others who visited him on various occasions previous to that time. Nis. EEy, Preston: The Witnesses of the Book of Mormon, page 154). Hiram Page and Jacob Whitmer severed their connections with the 561 Church, but they were faithful to their testimony. Elder Andrew Jenson testified that in September, 1888, John C. Whitmer, son of Jacob Whitmer, bore the following testimony to him: My father was always faithful and true to his testimony in regard to the Book of Mormon, and confirmed it on his deathbed (Ibid., page 148). Philander Page testified to Elder Andrew Jenson in the same month and year as follows: I knew my father to be true and faithful to his testimony of the divinity of the Book of Mormon until the very last (Ibid., page 157). In or out of the Church, these men always testified that Joseph Smith had shown them the plates from which The Book of Mormon was translated. Not one of the eight ever denied his testimony. It would seem that no divine manifestation has ever been more carefully and fully witnessed and attested than the incidents connected with the establishment of the divine authenticity of The Book of Mormon. It is a book of divine origin, a new witness of the divine mission of Jesus Christ. Suggested Readings Nis. LEy, Preston: The Witnesses of the Book of Mormon, Stevens and Wallace, 1946. Roserts, BricHaMm H.: New Witnesses for God, II, pp. 237-346, Deseret News Press, 1920. Questions for Discussion 1. Why did the Lord provide witnesses to the fact that Joseph had plates and had translated them correctly? 562. 2. What evidence do we have that there was no collusion between Joseph Smith and the witnesses? | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 3. What is the difference between the testimony of the three witnesses and that of the eight witnesses? Note: The article "Book of Mormon Witnesses and Their Testimony Meet Legal Standards," by Elder David J. Wilson, page 512, in this issue of the Magazine, is presented as supplementary reading in connection with this lesson. Usiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 2—"Remember That My Spirit Will Not Always Strive With Man" (Ether 2:15). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, November 6, 1951 Objective: To point out that only by living the Lord's commandments can we be sure of the presence of his spirit. "REMEMBER that my Spirit will not always strive with man." 'This is the Lord's admonition to the brother of Jared, and it is also a warning to us in our day. How awful it would be if we were shut out from the presence of our Heavenly Father's spirit. No. Darkness is so dense as the darkness in which one gropes without his spirit. It is a darkness more confusing and hazardous, by far, than physical darkness, for spiritual darkness - clouds the mind, the heart, and the soul—it obscures the light of truth. What does it mean to have his spirit striving with us? Of what value is it to us? It means that his spirit encourages us in righteousness, that it urges us to do good. His spirit illumines our pathway, helps us to distinguish between the real and the counterfeit, the important and the unimportant, truth and error. His spirit helps us to resist evil, gives us strength to overcome. What greater treasure could one ask for? But, under certain conditions, we are warned, his spirit will cease to strive with us. What are those conditions? When are we in danger of losing this protection and assistance? We are in danger when we harden our hearts and turn deaf ears to the spirit's promptings. We are in danger when we persist in | doing evil. When we defile our bodies we are in danger, for the spirit of God will not dwell in an unclean temple. Failure to render obedience to God's commandments places us in jeopardy; and neglect and indifference are the characteristics of spiritual weakness. How, then, may we be assured that the Lord's spirit will always strive with us? Continued adherence to the commandments of our Father in heaven is the safeguard. Sincere intent to do good must be LESSON DEPARTMENT manifest in our actions. Constant spiritual activity is necessary if we would have his spirit tarry with us. Let us live up to all our Heavenly 563 Father's commandments. Let us not take any chances of losing this most precious gift. We need his spirit to strive with us always. Work ITleeting—Sewing Tue Art oF MENDING (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 2—Patching Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, November 13, 1951 (Textbook: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot. ) Gop patching can be a real art, and everyone can master it with care and extra effort. One should first remember that a patch must suit the mend or break. 'The next thing of importance is that it should be as inconspicuous as possible. Patches should always be cut on the straight of the goods. They should be sewed on so the lengthwise and crosswise threads in the patch exactly match the lengthwise and crosswise threads in the article being patched. If the material has a design, match each detail perfectly to help hide the mend. If the clothing being mended is old and faded, try to get a matching. Patch. It may come from the hem or facing of a dress. If necessary, fade the patch by washing in suds and baking soda and drying in the sun. Always shrink new material before using it to patch anything that has been washed or cleaned. A hemmed patch is a sturdy mend done by hand. It is commonly used when the break is a hole or a frayed cut or tear. Before beginning this patch cut out the smallest possible square or rectangle that will remove the uneven edges of the damaged area. Cut along crosswise and lengthwise threads. Then clip diagonally at each corner, about one-fourth inch, and turn edges under, being careful not to stretch. Next, slide a piece of matching cloth under this square or rectangle hole, making sure the design matches perfectly. The patch should be about one inch larger all around than the hole. Baste in place and then hem the turned under edges of the hole against the patch with very fine invisible stitches, being careful that the corners of the patch are secure. The finish on the underside will depend on the material and the article being mended. If the cloth is light weight, turn under the edges of patch and hem them. When cloth is heavy, overcast the edges very closely. Hem _ patches down with stitches so tiny that they 564 will not be noticeable on the right side. This patch is good for clothes such as house dresses and play and work clothes that are to be tubbed. A mend that is suitable where sturdiness is more important than appearance is the lapped patch. To do this, cut away ragged edges and. Make a round hole. Lay a matched piece of cloth underneath and baste in place. On the right side stitch back and forth over this until it is firm and secure. This patch may be stitched by machine for mending shirts, play clothes, overalls, sheets, or dish towels. Hand darning makes a softer mend and is suitable for blankets, towels, and thick materials where there is less strain. An inset patch is a more inconspicuous way to mend most silks and rayons that will be dry-cleaned and not washed. Begin by cutting away frayed edges of damaged area to form a square or rectangle. Clip corners as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 for hemmed patch and press edges under. Cut a patch that fits the hole exactly, plus a seam allowance all around, being careful to match the designs in the material. From wrong side baste and stitch in place, making a plain seam all around the edge of the hole. Be careful at the corners to catch in all of the threads of material. Press the seams open around the edges of the mended area and over- | cast the edge closely. The method used to press the finished patch will be determined by the material of the article being patched. It is wise to make a test on a sample of cloth to decide how much heat and moisture are de sirable. In general, a_ thickness shows less on the outside if pressed lightly on the right side with a cloth between the iron and the fabTic., For illustrations of patches, see text, page 215. OLiterature—The Literature of England Lesson 18—Two Pre-Romantic Poets: James Thomson and William Collins Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, November 20, 1951 é 'NATION S, like people, change, gradually yet show the effects suddenly." This is true of the transition from the neo-classical to the romantic movement in literature. Many writers, departing slightly from the past, planted the seeds which developed into romanticism, and are important because they form the link between the two periods. Usually, full-blown romanticism is said to have begun in 1798 with the publication of Lyrical Ballads by Samuel Taylor Coleridge and William Wordsworth, and the literary manifesto contained in the preface to the second edition of 1800. But such radical departures from neo-classical customs as this document contained could never have LESSON DEPARTMENT been as influential as they were had not the entire eighteenth century preceding been one of Rousseauism, revolution, and growing romanticism (study text, pp. 1-5). During this hundred years, scores of writings appeared which emphasized one or another of the: many phases of romanticism, such as predominance of sentiment, emotion, and the imagination; belief in nature and the simple life as opposed to the evils of the rapidly-growing cities and factory towns; faith in the natural goodness and importance of common men; rebellion against certain economic, political, and religious conventions; belief in a mystical union of man with nature and thence with God; concern for the suffering of the lower classes; fascination for the melancholic, the mysterious, the morbid, and the horrible. Two eighteenth century poets, James Thomson and William Collins, reveal in their writings some of these elements, and are therefore important for our study of the romantic movement. James Thomson (1700-1748 ) Born a Scotchman, James Thomson (text, pp. 32-46) was educated at Edinburgh University for the ministry, but he became infatuated with verse-writing and went to seek his literary fortunes in London, where his easy-going attitude and evident cultivation earned for him a circle of influential, aristocratic friends. By shrewd manipulations he used his friends to procure royal pensions and easy, well-paid jobs at court, thus making possible the life of ease and complacency which he desired. His opinions were those of 565 the typical neo-classical gentlemen: proper, conservative, and sacred to his own self-esteem and that of his group. Few men would be more shocked at being called a revolutionist than he. Yet such we must label him, mild though his revolution might have been. Thomson's literary life was overshadowed by Pope, the literary czar of the day, whose axiom, "The proper study of mankind is man," was accepted as hardly less than prophecy by his contemporaries. Admiring Pope so much that he departed from his dominance ever so gently, he nevertheless departed. First, he spurned the heroic couplet to write in imitation of Milton's exalted blank verse; and second, his most significant work, The Seasons, contains no characters, but is a large, detailed description of the natural scene in its many moods throughout the year. He wrote in an age when description for its own sake was held to be beneath the concern of any mature writer, who, like Pope, wrote nature descriptions as a childlike exercise. 'Thus The Seasons opposed contemporary opinion, and became the first major work in the English tradition to honor nature for its beautiful, and hitherto undefined, rewards. To the modern mind it seems inconceivable that the beauties of nature were non-existent to the literary England of two hundred years ago. Yet such was true. For Thomson, nature is an awe-inspiring force of vast scope and variety, a power which, when properly revered and studied, soothes man's wounds received in the battle for wealth and 566 industrial power, and bestows upon.. A virtue. Repose of mind, A pure ethereal calm, that knows no storm. (page 42, lines 36-37) In such belief in the healing powers of nature, he predicts Wordsworth's mystical nature-worship and prepares the way for him. In Thomson's "Winter" we find such evidences of his devotion to neo-classical artificialities as are found on page 34, lines 86-91, and in such phases as "the plumy race" (line 137) for birds. But we also find in his homage to nature a loftiness, a majestic passion for nature which would be a credit to the Milton he imitates. For example: I lived And sung of nature with unceasing joy, Pleased have I wandered through your rough domain; Trod the pure virgin-snows, myself as pure; Heard the winds roar, and the big torrent burst; Or seen the deep-fermenting tempest brewed In the grim evening sky. ("Winter," page 33, lines 8-14) The reeling clouds Stagger with dizzy poise, as doubting yet Which master to obey; while, rising slow, Blank in the leaden-colored east, the moon Wears a wan circle round her blunted horns. (page 35, lines 121-125) Through the black night that sits immense around, Lashed into foam, the fierce-conflicting brine Seems o'er a thousand raging waves to burn. (page 35, lines 158-161) Such passages as that following line 41 describing the winter scene, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 are particularly somber and moving, and well worth reading aloud. Nature becomes for Thomson a great parent, immediately identified in his mind with a personal, mystical relationship with God. The selection from "Winter" in our text ends with an impassioned plea for justice to all mankind, a theme which runs as well through his delightful "Castle of Indolence," one of the best known imitations of Spenser. Within both selections are many passages which, because of their nature descriptions and their new humanitarianism, contain an immediate appeal. William Collins 1721-1759) In one sense the most intensely romantic of eighteenth century writers, William Collins (text, pp. 66- 72) was a true poet. The delicately skilled music of his language, and his ability to create the typically romantic mood of mystery and melancholy, are memorable. 'The exquisite quality of his imagination exemplifes his own definition of poetry, which he felt to be a divine, unrestrained imaginative power such as he had early found and loved in the works of Shakespeare and Milton. Collins was born in Sussex and began writing verse before his teens. — He took his degree at Oxford and forsook the career of a minister for poetry. Many grandiose literary plans rattled about in his head when he came to London, where he wrote but little, published less, and lived the life of an obscure, starving poet. By the time he was thirty his rare poetic talent was already obscured by physical illness and increasingly LESSON DEPARTMENT long periods of melancholy, which finally became so severe that he spent some years in a "madhouse"' before his death at age thirty-eight. It seems ironical that Collins, like Keats, whom he resembled both in mood and in his reverence for beauty and word-music, should die before the great promise of his genius was fulfilled. Collins wrote poems on the romantic themes of patriotism, simplicity as opposed to the artificialities of the neo-classical writers, and death. But his unconventional, sensitive imagination gives to his better poems an aura of freshness and deli- - cate wonderment, so they are pecullarly and excellently his own. For example, read aloud "Dirge" in Cymbeline and. "Ode" (page 68), Melancholy, Cheerfulness, and Joy in "The Passions" (page 71) and "Ode on the Death of Mr. Thomson" (page 72). The last poem published during Collins' lifetime was ""The Passions" (page 70), an ode praising music as the vital ingredient of true poetry. In the final apostrophe to music he writes: "Tis said, and I believe the tale, Thy humblest reed could more prevail, Had more of strength, diviner rage, Than all which charms this laggard age. (page 72, lines 109-112) Although this poem is written in the popular couplet form, it opposes the contemporary emphasis on following strict form in poetry, and at the same time states Collins' own desire to restore to poetry the music which is the source of its greatness. If the reader is to catch and enjoy Collins' carefully wrought wordmusic, it is necessary that his lines 567 be sounded aloud, more so than for almost any poet we have discussed. Poetry can never be divorced from the tones and images and words through which the soul of the poem is expressed, but in Collins, where so great an emphasis has been placed on sound and music of words, this is particularly true. His best work overflows with examples of alliteration (beginning consecutive words with the same sound: "solemn springs"); assonance (comparing vowel sounds which are similar but do not rhyme: bell—all—veil, page 70, lines 38-40); and onomatopoeia (on'amat'ape'a) (likening the sound of a word to the idea it contains: "the bat, with short shrill shriek," page 69, line 10). His best work, and what has been called one of the loveliest poems of the century, is "Ode to Evening" (text, page 69). The meaning of this poem is more apparent to the senses and feelings than to logic, therefore to be understood it must be read aloud, preferably many times. 'Then his sensitive vowel music becomes apparent, for when his lines are spoken slowly and with a rich fullness, the resonance chambers of the speaker's throat and head are singing continually with vowel sounds. Almost any verse read aloud will prove this to be true, but read the following aloud, listening for the variety of singing vowels, and in "breathing tresses, meekest Eve" note the interlocking pattern of the long and short E sound. Examplified as well are alliteration and assonance. While Spring shall pour his showers, as oft he wont, 568 And bathe thy breathing tresses, meekest Eve! While Summer loves to sport Beneath thy lingering light. (page 70, lines 41-44) Once we thus become aware of Collins' skill and care in building within the poem such accumulative, almost hidden appeals to something other than the listener's intellect, we are then more prepared to enjoy the serene, mysterious-yet-familiar mood of the entire poem in much the same way as we would listen to such music as Debussy's. One should not attempt to untravel the specific grammatical structure of the first sentence, which ends at line 20. Instead these lines should be read as an emotional, lyrical praise to Evening. They express the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 poet's desire to be cast beneath the spell of dusk, a spell which these lines themselves create. The rest of the poem tells of Evening's arrival, and of her taking the poet to various scenes in nature which are swayed by her influence. If you can live with this poem long enough to make it your own, you will be rewarded with the delight and power it gives. Questions for Discussion 1. How did Thomson depart from, and agree with, the doctrines of his aristocratic literary friends? 2. Why is Thomson called a nature poet? 3. How did Collins exemplify his own theory of poetry? 4. Why is "Ode to Evening"' a romantic poem? Social Sctence—The Progress of Man Part 2—From Darkness Into Dawn Lesson 9—The Revival of Learning Elder Archibald F. Bennett (Text: The Progress of Man, by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, chapters 16 and 17.) For Tuesday, November 27, 1951 - Objective: To depict the stages by which the minds of men, awakened by the Spirit of the Lord, began to be freed from the chains that enslaved them. The Renaissance was the dawning of that day. Indifference Towards Learning The great majority of the people during the Middle Ages were wholly without an education. They lived their simple life on their farms as their fathers and grandfathers had done; they had their games and their = festivals, they served their feudal landlords and paid heavy taxes, but they cared nothing for books and leaming and knew little of the great world about them (Exson, HEenry W-.: Modern Times and the Living Past). During these dark times there was little to give encouragement or incentive to the common people to seek learning. Since all books were written by hand, a very tedious practice, and were therefore limited LESSON DEPARTMENT and exceedingly expensive, they were beyond the meager means of the common people. Moreover, such books were in the Latin language. Translations of the Bible were chained to the pulpits in the churches, and were accessible only to the priests who guarded them with a jealous eye. In those days if a man was accused of a crime, and he could read and write (of course this would be in Latin), he was entitled to a trial before the ecclesiastical courts, where to convict required the testimony of numerous witnesses. However, if a layman was accused, two witnesses were sufficient to obtain a conviction. Learning on the part of the common people was discouraged and looked upon as the special prerogative of the clergy. Springtime of the Renaissance Conditions of this kind could not endure forever. 'The Lord never intended that man should be kept in ignorance. 'The time had to come when the minds of men were to be freed from the chains that enslaved them. This time of a revival of learning is generally spoken of as The Renaissance, or "rebirth." This period marks the division between the Middle Ages and what we call the beginning of modern times. John Addington Symonds has said: However, it is generally stated that near the end of the fifteenth and beginning of the sixteenth century formed the real springtime of this era. Following the twelfth century the first dawn of light began to appear. The world was like a great giant who gradually began to stir from a long drunken stupor, sit up, tub his eyes and look about him, hold his aching head and try to work the stiff- 569 ness out of his joints, and realize the awful plight he had been in; then gradually as the blood began to course normally he began once again to find himself and put himself in order with his surroundings. Let us not forget that the hand of the Lord was over the people and the set time for the dawn of a better day had come by divine decree (Symonps, Joun AppincTon: The Beginning and Progress of the Renaissance). "Nothing Takes Place by Accident" Nothing in the great world which concerns the well being of man takes place by accident, but is brought forward by divine will, precisely at the moment most suitable to our condition. So it was with astronomy, the Mariner's compass, the steam engine, gas, the electric telegraph, and many other of those blessings which have progressed with civilization. The elements were there and known, but the time had not arrived for their fructification (GzorcE Henry Bonn, see text page 198). In these latter days it is easy for members of the Church to understand how the Spirit of the Lord was working among the people in former times. 'The awakening in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, which took on momentum in the following three centuries, was the dawning of the day in which the fulness of freedom and religious liberty was to be ushered in. All the discoveries and inventions which followed were to make preparation for the restoration of the gospel once again in its fulness. Long before the awakening in Europe there had been progress in literature, art, and science among the Saracens, who... During the Dark Ages, were almost the sole repositories of the scientific knowledge of the world. A part of this they gathered for themselves, for the 570 Arabian scholars were original investigators, but a large share of it. They borrowed from the Greeks. While the Western nations were too ignorant to know the value of the treasures of antiquity, the Saracens preserved them by translating into Arabic the scientific works of Aristotle, the treatises on medicine by Galen, and the astronomical writings of the Alexandrian Greeks; and then, when Europe was prepared to appreciate these accumulations of the past, gave them back to her (Myers, see text, page 200). Effect of the Crusades on Learning The crusades were great military expeditions by the Christians of Europe intended to wrest the Holy Land from the Mohammedans. They were inspired by religious fervor and fanaticism and the love of adventure on the part of the soldier who was trained for war. The first crusade was undertaken in 1096, and there were seven others up to 1272. These crusades, while they failed in the purpose for which they were conducted, did result in an enlarged view and understanding on the part of the people of Europe. East and West were brought nearer to each other. The knights and soldiers who engaged in these wars brought to the people of Europe many new thoughts and ideas about the world. The increased knowledge of geography, a better understanding of the Mohammedan, and contact with the learning of the East, stimulated the desire for further knowledge. As knowledge regarding the peoples of other lands began to dawn upon the Europeans, and as there were brought into their communities many new things in the form of merchandise, the desire was increased to have more intimate intercourse with these people of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 East. 'The crusades and the adventures of such men as Marco - Polo and Sir John Mandevil stimulated the desire for trade. Extended voyages resulted in the building of better ships, and when the mariner's compass came into general use, long voyages could be safely taker. In 1498, after Columbus had been to the Western -World, Vasco de Gama made a successful voyage to India whence had come most of the merchandise from the East. The use of gunpowder brought to an end the age of chivalry and its medieval castles. Eventually it also brought the introduction of more powerful weapons of war. Ships had to be reconstructed on a large and stronger scale. The horrors of war became more terrible, the end of which, unfortunately, the world has not yet seen. Benefits From Accumulated Knowledge From the commencement of the revival many agencies were at work, each doing its particular part in the great work of reconstruction and restoration. These agencies were to bring back to the world much of the culture and knowledge which had been lost through darkness caused by the-rejection of the inspiration of the Holy Spirit and the revealed word of the Lord. The world has benefited wonderfully by the accumulation of knowledge and experience coming down from the distant past. We speak of the "Dark Ages" of the world, and the "revival of learning" which followed, and in this we speak truly, for the light which LESSON DEPARTMENT came in the beginning was taken away and was followed by gross spiritual darkness. Then, when the Lord saw fit to bring it about, he revived the minds of men in preparation for the restoration of his divine truth in the dispensation of the fulness of times. The Origin of Printing It is declared by many scholars that the discovery, or invention, of printing is the greatest of all inventions. Whether or not this be true, it must be conceded that printing has had a most powerful effect upon the civilization of the world. The incentive for knowledge increased immeasurably after the invention of printing. Printing with movable type is of comparatively recent origin. 'The great discovery was that of making each letter separately, so as to make possible the rearranging and forming of words, lines, and pages of a printed book, thus avoiding the cutting of new blocks for each page. The claim of Johannes Gutenberg to the invention of this kind of type is generally conceded. Printing dated from about 1438. In the middle of the fifteenth century there were several books printed by means of movable type, and before 1500 printing presses had been set up in some 220 different places in Europe. It was about the time of the invention of printing that the perfecting of making paper out of rags was accomplished. 'This discovery did away with the expensive means of making books by hand which was the custom in the days when scribes had to write each volume with a pen. 571 The Printing of the Bible The first printed book from movable type was a Latin edition of the Bible which appeared between 1450 and 1455. We are informed that in the last thirty years of the fifteenth century, 10,000 books and pamphlets were published in Europe. In that day it was a wonderful accomplishment. The desire of the clergy, which was impressed upon the people by physical force, was to prevent the common people from learning to read and write for fear they would demand the privilege of reading and interpreting the Bible for themselves. No matter how much pressure could be brought to bear by those in authority against printing and the reading of printed Bibles, the ability to read and write continued ts grow among the people. The publication of books, including the Bible, was too great a force to be stemmed by the puny arm of tyranny. Like an irresistible flood, printing and the desire to read what was printed, swept over the entire land. 'This flood-tide spelled the doom of Latin as the language of literature. Books in the everyday speech of the people began to multiply. Moreover, no matter how severe the threats were against the translating, printing, and reading of the Bible in the native tongues, this work continued. Printing of the Bible had to be done secretly in those days, and most of the time no one knew where it was done. As time went on more and more copies of the Bible appeared in the vernacular tongues, and the tide could not be stemmed. Finally, through the in- 572 crease of light and freedom which ' was brought about by the reformers, the work of disseminating copies of the Bible among the people continued openly and steadily until all the people had the blessed privilege of owning copies of the scriptures. So the time came that, instead of its being considered a crime for a man to read the Bible to his family, men were taught to reverently read the scriptures. 'This reading was taught as a duty which every man owes to his faith and to his God. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 Thoughts for Discussion 1. Account for the lack of education among the masses of the people during - the Dark and Middle Ages. 2. Name some lasting effects from the use of the mariner's compass and of gunpowder. 3. What benefits came to Europeans through the crusades? 4. Enumerate the direct results to the common people from the printing of numerous books, especially the Bible. 5. How is the hand of the Lord manifest in this reawakening? Nlusic—Fundamentals of Musicianship APPRECIATION, CONDUCTING, SINGING, AND ACCOMPANYING Lessons for Union Meetings for 1951-52 Lesson 10—Efficiency in Teaching and Practicing Hymns and Anthems Florence Jepperson Madsen Objective: To make song rehearsals more effective and successful through careful planning and definite procedures. "As every thread of gold is valuable, so is every moment of time" (John Mason). The Proper Use of Time (a) Since time is so valuable and but so little available for practice purposes, the conductor and the accompanist should do everything possible to use it judiciously in rehearsals. (b) They should study and practice together for greater efficiency in understanding and teaching the Latter-day Saint hymns and other song literature. _(c) To do this it is necessary that they plan their work jointly and arrange all essential details well in advance of the practice periods. Creating an Interest in Group Singing (a) Constant effort should be made to create a desire in the hearts of the sisters to experience the inspiration and joy of singing together. (b) Most people can sing in a group if they wish to do so, and their singing can be greatly improved through practice. These points should often be emphasized.. (c) "Those whose love and knowledge of music will enable them not only to receive but also to give, will always be the happiest. For music, being harmony, is a companionable art, and activity in music carries with it one of the greatest enjoyments which people can have" (Eric Clarke: Music in Everyday Life). The Love of Music Among the Latter-day Saints (a) The Latter-day Saints have always been a music-loving people. They have been outstanding in their choral and congregational singing. LESSON DEPARTMENT (b) It has ever been the policy of the Church to make available appropriate hymn and anthem books. (c) The recently published hymn book (Hymns) fumishes added richness in song material. (d) Most of the numbers written for mixed voices can be sung as congregational songs by Relief Society using the soprano and alto parts, or the soprano part only. (e) The Singing Mothers should frequently use the hymns that have been arranged for women's voices. (f) "The singing of our sacred hymns, written by the servants of God, has a powerful effect in converting people to the principles of the gospel and in promoting peace and spiritual growth...." (PRestDENT HEBER J. Grant: Gospel Standards, page 168). Procedures and Methods in Presenting Hymns and Songs (a) "... Method is essential if you would get through your work easily and with economy of time' (William Mathews). (b) When a new song is to be practiced by a group, most of whom cannot read music, the following plan should be used: 1.°Study the words first. Have these given by a good reader, or have the group tread them. 2. Mention outstanding characteristics or events concerning the author. 3. State briefly the philosophy of the words. 4. Describe type and style of composition. 5. Relate something of interest in the composer's life. 6. Have the accompanist play the song to establish accuracy of melody, rhythm, and tempo. 7. Play the melody and have sopranos hum along with it. 8. Play the melody and have sopranos sing the words, phrase by phrase. G. Practice the other vocal parts similarly. 10. Rehearse the various parts together, such as: first and second sopranos; second sopranos and altos; or sopranos and altos. 573 Reautiful (tae ES f Keliof Society Singers Dil Bless This House—Brahe _____..$.16 os If With All Your Hearts— Mendelssohn-Harris __..__ 16 — If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments—Madsen _ 20 a Invocation—Moore _ _.16 — King of Glory—Parks _ —.20 Rs Lord's Prayer—Gates —ié«iwzd —— My God and I—Wihtol Ss.20 _ My Task—Ashford si _ Peace I Leave With You— Roberts. > a, Praise Ye The Father—Gounod_.10 Music Sent on Approval WE PAY POSTAGE Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated above. [1] On Approval C) Charge [] Money Enclosed ee Se Neb cies MAIN STREET Lo 4 SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAN 574 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos -KNABE The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built —— All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PRESERVE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINES Have the valuable information contained therein readily available for easy access permanently bound. Thee Deseret News Press 40 Richards Street Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1951 11. Sing all parts together with the accompaniment. (The procedures listed above are fundamentals of the "part method."') (c) When a new hymn or vocal composition is introduced to a group who can read music: 1. Sing it through from beginning to end without a stop. 2. Sing it two or three times in unison, or in parts, as written. 3. Correct mistakes that have been made. 4. Study the words as directed above under b numbers (1) and (3). (These are a few of the procedures that belong to the "Whole method" of study. ): Application of the Foregoing Principles, Procedures, and Methods Practice the following hymns: 1. With congregation (a) "Hear Thou Our Hymn, O Lord," (New) Hymns. (b) "May the Grace of Christ, Our Saviour," Deseret Sunday School Songs. 2. With Singing Mothers Chorus (a) "Bring, Heavy Heart, Your Grief to Me." (New) Hymns. (b) "Come, Let Us Sing an Evening Hymn," (New) Hymns. (c) "May the Grace of Christ, Our Saviour," Deseret Sunday School Songs. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. What is the value and the purpose of congregational singing? 2. Name a few fundamental procedures in teaching new songs. 3. How may time be used to the best advantage in rehearsals? References for Further Reading WobELL, W. F.: Choir and Chorus Conducting (may be found in any large library). Pyrer, GeorcE D.: Stories of Latterday Saint Hymns. CAN WHEN YOU CAN 575 Can When You Can (Continued from page 523) many of us, our canning shelves hold a large portion of our "onhand" food supply. To fill those shelves is a big job, but it is one of the most satisfying of the major household tasks. True, the peeling gets tedious, standing over steaming kettles is wilting. Cleaning up the kitchen afterward is an irksome task. All that disappears, however, in the pleasure of putting away the finished product. And as much as I appreciate the convenience and advantages of tin cans, I enjoy looking at shelves of glass jars where the tempting goodness shows. The rich colors blend into a variegated pattern that brings thanksgiving into a woman's heart. O—i2- Sea Call Mary Gustafson The level sameness stretches far to cast Wave-rippled dullness on the yellowed field. No mountain cuts the monotone to shield The weary eyes. 'Twin ribboned lanes lead past The house; here heaviness of wheels, in vast, Unnumbered trips, leaves ruts. Years are concealed Through days of seeding to the time of yield— An evenness of world without contrast. This dream that circles days at harvest-end Must break the crust of years, the bonds that cling To prairie soil. My longings overflow As hope returns the sea beyond the bend Of grain, beyond the acres over-burdening Of green... The call repeats, and I must go. @ 4 q 4 Waver Not Kate Richards Waver not in your determination to maintain righteousness in your home; but be kind in your firmness, and gentle in your strength. It is said, ""There is nothing so strong as gentleness, and there is nothing so gentle as real strength." Be patient with weakness; love and discernment wisely applied establish a fair disposition of justice, thus maintaining a power for peace where prejudice and chaos may have prevailed. Christ himself portrayed these beautiful attributes and taught them to his disciples. From Meat and Sar My husband who was recalled into the Marine Corps is being sent to Korea, so I will be moving into Los Angeles to await his return. I would like to tell you how much I love the Magazine and what it has meant to me. Realizing the mixed emotions that would be in my heart during this crucial time, before I left Salt Lake City, I gathered up my grandmother's and my Relief Society Magazines for the past four years and brought them with me. With their help, I have been studying Dr. Talmage's Jesus the Christ. What a blessing this has been to me. It has strengthened my testimony, given me a deeper insight into the divinity of the works of Jesus, and been a source of information and strength in helping my husband at this time. —Florence C. Johnson, San Clemente, California May I tell you how good the editorial for Mother's Day made me feel ("The Safe Harbor of Home," May 1951). I read it often. —Norma W. Morris Rigby, Idaho May I express my sincere appreciation for this fine Magazine which I look for-- ward to each month throughout the _ year. I prize it dearly. Thanks to the editors, manager, and everyone who contributes such splendid lesson material, as well as beautiful poems and stories. I would be lost without it. —Christie Robertson, Honolulu, Hawaii For years in Cleveland, Ohio, and later in Logan, Utah, The Relief Society Magazine was happily received at my home each month. But more than at any other time, I have appreciated receiving it here in San Juan, Puerto Rico. With no mission and no branch of the Church here, The Relief Society Magazine is our monthly missionary that brings its splendid message of faith and truth. —Stella P. Israelsen San Juan, Puerto Rico Page 576 I was so pleased to see my article ("Conservation Looks to the Future') in the June issue of the Magazine. I have also enjoyed the other articles very much, and especially the poetry. The selection of poems is always excellent. —Helen C. Payne Ogden, Utah I enjoyed the articles on poetry and story writing in the June Magazine ("Let's Write a Poem," by Alberta H. Christensen, and "Let's Write a Story" by Alice Morrey Bailey). I am so proud of the Magazine, and many of my friends are interested in it. It is doing a great work. The stories and poems are excellent. C. Cameron Johns writes beautifully ("I Watch Winter Pass," March 1950; "Departure," April 1950; "The Unraveling," June 1951). —Beatrice K. Ekman Portland, Oregon The poetry and stories in The Relief Society Magazine are a source of perpetual' enjoyment to me. The inspiration and ideas they carry are unique. —Jo Bishop Ashby Holden, Utah We would not be without The Relief Society Magazine in our home. It brings so much that is worthwhile into our lives and actually lifts us above the cares and problems of our day. —Fern F. Fairbourn, Keosauqua, Iowa One day one of The Relief Society Magazines was left in my mail box by mistake. It contained one of the finest poems I have ever read—'The Black Stag of Dairy Fork," by Marvin Jones (November, 1950). —Mary Gustafson Oakland, California I very much enjoyed the article on poetry writing in the June Magazine ("Let's Write a Poem,") by Alberta H. Christensen. I enjoyed the whole MagaZIne. —Eva W. Wangsgaard Ogden, Utah [HESE great texts and visual aids— For your Relief Society Courses of Study 1951-52 THEOLOGY: THE BOOK OF MORMON Missionary edition $1.00_ $1.25 by mail Library edition as voc ceeeenee-----$92200 Large type edition $3.00 The George Reynolds Book of Mormon Chart. A graphic, chronological chart of all Book of Mormon events, synchronized with events of ancient history of Greece, Rome—Assyria, Persia—; featuring each historian, the major peoples: Nephites, Lamanites, Mulekites, Gadianton Robbers; complete legend, giving the Book of Mormon in headlines. 16" x 74" in 5 colors. Published originally in 1898 by George Reynolds; reissued in 1931 and 1951. $3.00. The best Book of Mormon visual aid yet produced. SOCIAL SCIENCE: THE PROGRESS OF MAN 000000000 $2.50 by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith LITERATURE: THE LITERATURE OF ENGLAND Volume 2 nove eee$5.00* By mail ccc $5.25* *These are the correct prices. The wrong prices were quoted in July Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From 'Advertisers Wren you use U & 1 Sugar for preserving, canning. Or freezing of this summer's bounteous crop, you i can depend upon its quality as the' finest, purest, whitest sugar you can find anywhere. There is none better. Always buy U &! UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. 
