Relief Society, with goodwill and prayerful interest, extend love and greetings to Relief Society women throughout the world. Although some of us are separated by long distances of land and sea, and even speak different languages, there is an invisible tie that holds and binds us so closely together in fellowship, love and affection, that it seems almost as if we were near enough to reach out in the distance and clasp hands. As we look back over the past year's work we are deeply impressed by the progress made. In our health and welfare work our accomplishments have been noteworthy; in our educational work we have excelled beyond expectation; in our religious and spiritual activity we have been inspired, blessed and comforted, and our testimonies strengthened. For all of our success we are deeply indebted to our local workers everywhere, whose untiring labors, sacrificing efforts and unswerving loyalty are primarily responsible for the great accomplishments of the organization. In our contemplation and in our rejoicing we are also ever mindful of our rich heritage, and of our. Indebtedness to the workers of other days; and we look back with pride and reverence over the entire history of the organization with all its achievements. We are grateful for the vision, the wisdom and the efforts of the women of the past who laid the foundations and who gave much of their lives and strength to the upbuilding of the Society and to the service of humanity. Down through the years the women of each period have made their respective contributions, and The 'Relief Society" Magazine Vou. XXIII JANUARY, 1936 No. Have passed on to their reward, leaving the work to be taken up by those of the next generation. We value their accomplishments and strive always to emulate their good example. Our hearts are full of gratitude for the hearty and continuous support of the Priesthood, both general and local. Instituted by a Prophet of God, fostered and encouraged by him and by his successors in office, and also by their brethren in the Holy Priesthood, the Relief Society has been greatly blessed. For this we are sincerely appreciative and deeply grateful to our Heavenly Father. ISS TEEN NSE SST YY sara AMAT é es) ' Vy ell i st rae < With all these blessings and privileges let us go forward with faith and courage, fortified by an unreserved compliance with the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. Let us use our efforts and our strength to combat all evil, and to help to establish righteousness in the earth as a preparation for the second coming of our Lord and Savior. LOUISE Y. ROBISON. AMY BROWN LYMAN KATE M. BARKER General Presidency of Relief Society.