EDITORIAL 51 The Fundamental Purpose of Our Work Days WE fear that many in their pleasure in mental activity are losing sight of the primary purpose of our work sessions. While we appreciate the excellent cultural departments which many of the organizations have inaugurated for their Work and Business periods, we call attention to the fact that the origin of Work and Business in our Relief Society was to care for those who were in need. It is a desirable thing to gain skill with the hands. It is an art to be able to fashion artistic clothing and to make things that are useful and beautiful. Through our organization many women have become expert quilt makers, have learned to make most beautiful rugs, flowers, cushions, luncheon sets, etc. Surely learning to do and execute such work is valuable. Let us not in our joy in mental activities lose sight of these things. Recently in one of our wards an excellent cultural lesson was given on Work and Business day, but when the Relief Society meeting closed the women met little children going home from school who were cold and very poorly clothed. One little child had no coat, although the day was very cold, and her little hands were blue from lack of clothing and possibly not enough food. Would not these women have found more joy in preparing warm clothing for these little ones? We feel that this is the first requirement of our Relief Society and that cultural lessons must come on work days only when motherless children, or any children for that matter, are properly clothed. -We cannot afford to let our children be humiliated by going to school in ragged clothing. There is an instance of a sweet young girl 15 years old who was trying to care for five motherless children. She was invited out with the Girl Scouts. One of the requirements was for each girl to wear a warm coat on this ocassion. She came to our Relief Society to show us the very ragged lining of her coat and said she would be embarrassed to take it. She had worked for a woman who gave her enough material to line her coat, but she did not know how to put the lining in. To help in a situation like this is the first call for Work and Business days in Relief Societies. Our program if carried out gives rounded development. Let us follow it and never become blind to the needs of the poor or deaf to their cries.