[Vol40 | April 1953 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Martha Ann Walker Has Quilts]

Photograph courtesy Don Blair MARTHA ANN EYRE WALKER, MURRAY, UTAH Martha Ann Walker Has ee ix Mundred Quilts Martha Ann Eyre Walker, eighty-two, has made at least six hundred quilts.
These quilts have been made in nearly all the well-known patterns, as well as in intricate and difficult designs.
Some of her recent quilts are appliqued in delicate patterns and lovely colors. An exacting "stitcher,"" Mrs.
Walker takes great pride in the handwork displayed in her quilting and in the bindings as well. As a child in Minersville, Beaver County, Utah, Martha Ann carried water a half block to fill a forty-gallon barrel each day to supply the stagecoach station. She gleaned in the fields, performed all kinds of household tasks, and at the age of sixteen became a schoolteacher.
Many years of her life were spent as a practical nurse in the care of the sick. She is the mother of eight children, grandmother to sixteen, greatgrandmother to thirty-seven, and great-great-grandmother to ten. For sixty-four years she has been a member of Relief Society, serving faithfully in many capacities and holding every office from visiting teacher to ward president. For the past twenty-five years she has served on the sewing committee of the Murray First Ward, and for the past fifteen years has been chairman of the sewing and quilting committee. For many years she has made fifteen or more quilts a year, as well as making many aprons and assisting in welfare sewing. Page 240
Pot-Head Kettle Velma D. Cloward HEN Aunt Minnie came in- \¢ to the room with a great armfull of bright colored asters, Granny pulled herself up in the bed, twisting the corners of her mouth up into a tight pucker at the twitches of pain the movement caused her. Aunt Minnie dropped the Howers in a heap that looked like curly clouds on the table beside the bed. Holding Granny's frail shoulders with one hand, she skillfully adjusted the pillows behind her back with the other.
Granny lay back against their soft comfort with a sigh, the lines of pain around her mouth smoothing out into a smile. "Land of Goshen, Minnie, did you bring the entire border of asters?" she asked, nodding at the flowers on the table. "Not quite," Aunt Minnie smiled.