[Vol40 | April 1953 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Recipe for Fudge]
~~ Recipe for Chocolate Si udge Eva Carter HE is a recipe for a large batch of chocolate fudge. It is suitable for making candy for Relief Society bazaars, or for any occasion requiring several pounds of candy. Place in a large bowl: Place in a large pot: 3 pkgs. Chocolate chips 5 cups white sugar 1 pint marshmallow whip 2 cubes butter or margarine 2 tsp. Vanilla 1 tall can milk Add nuts, if desired dab of salt Bring the second mixture (in pot) to slow boil and cook for eight minutes. Pour over first mixture (in bowl), stir quickly, and then pour into previously buttered pans. Let stand until cool. Spring Riddle Lydia Bennett Egbert A little wind, a little rain, The robins winging home again; Gay streamlets rippling through the glen, A flood of sunshine now and then; The crocus budding on the hills, A row of golden daffodils— For gardening an eager zest. My riddle, no, I think you've guessed Yes, April! +i Communique Iris W. Schow I rub the soap on Kathryn's palm With cleanly zeal, but she, Thinking I clasp her hand from love, Squeezes right back to me. Now in her net of clasping hand, Tossed curls, and lifted eyes, She captures all my tenderness; I am her willing prize. Though many grand and gracious words Her curly head may yet command, Will these give her the eloquence Possessed by her small clasping hand? Ae -> G reen Unterim Lael W. Hill The green ferns curl from the skeleton leaves All warm with sun; Only the wintered spirit grieves With spring begun. The green ferns rise into warmth and light Of April dawn— Only tli lost heart seeks a night Already gone. TWO PART SACRED CHORUSES for RELIEF SOCIETY SINGERS — Beside Still Waters—Hamblen ----. 16 —— Bless This House—Brahe.16 — Children's Friend—Adams.15 _ Father, We Thank Thee—Hurlburt.20 a. God Is Ever Beside Me—DeRose.20 — God Painted A Picture—DeRose.20 _.. It Was For Me—Frisby.15 -_ On the Highway to Galilee— Os | 15 eo Rest For the Weary—Hamblen.18 = When Children Pray—Fenner.18 WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement on your order blank
DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47
