[Vol40 | April 1953 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1893 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" THE UTAH ROOM AT THE WOMEN'S CONGRESS IN CHICAGO: Fine needle work is a most beautiful art, and how forcibly this thought is brought to mind while gazing at the many articles the women of Utah have been preparing for their room in the Utah building in Chicago. It would take a great many pages to describe them all, for there are so many lunch cloths, doilies, and scarfs in exquisite drawn work, there are so many pieces of rich and rare embroidery, there are such wonderful combinations of historic silks made into beautiful spreads.... One can scarcely imagine anything more exquisite than the pale cream silk curtains embroidered in sego lilies, under which all who visit the Woman's Building will pass, and imagine the surprise, when told that they are made of Utah silk—KEditorial OUR CHILDREN: Our Father's words and works are for the "immortality and eternal life of man." Man is the child of God, partaking of his spiritual and eternal nature, and how fearful the responsibility of those to whom they are entrusted for their education and development; that they may be able to dwell in His presence and abide in His glory. All such will have power to do for their children, what God the Father has done for His. The consummation of sublimest thought—of heaven's grand design. —S. W. Richards IN THE VALLEY OF THE TEMPLE In the valley of the Temple Where God's works in beauty gleam, From the snow-capped peak or meadow, Rose-blown hedge or rippling stream. In the music of the temple Swelling' sweet with power and praise, Came a thought of joys unmeasured That we knew in other days. OPINIONS ABOUT NAMES: There is always a greater pleasure to me in seeing a letter bearing my husband's name than those which come simply addressed to ELLA WHEELER WILCOX. One thing is certain: personally I always prefer to have letters addressed to me as, MRS. HENRY WARD BEECHER. —Selected PERSONAL REMINISCENCES: My first babe was born the 7th day of July 1848.
Through my illness (which was protracted) I had no bread; for the last few days I had managed to make a pancake, but I had got to the last ounce of flour. The midwife kindly brought me a piece of bread.... On Monday the 10th my husband went early in the morning, sickle in hand, cut a little wheat here and there where it had ripened, threshed it with a flail, and wagon cover, took it on his shoulder to Brother Neff's mill, had it ground, brought it home, had a big loaf baked in a bake kettle, and the whole family sat down to dinner in the room where I was, so that I might enjoy it with them.
Just think what a feast! —Gatha Page 236 NAOM! SAUNDERS FARR and MELBA JUNE EGBERT sang -the soprano and contralto roles, respectively, in Dr. Leroy J. Robertson's "Oratorio From The Book of Mormon," whose world premier was held in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, in February 1953. 'The oratorio, with combined choruses and the Utah Symphony Orchestra, was conducted by Maurice Abravanel. The music is hailed as a work of true genius and inspiration. Mrs.
Farr has studied in Paris, where she often took part in Latter-day Saint Church functions, and is singing leading roles in University of Utah musical productions. Miss Egbert will be graduated from the University of Utah this June and has sung roles with the Utah Opera Theater. RS. J. K. (ANNA THOMAS) PIERCEY died recently in Salt Lake City at the age of eightysix years. She was the author of the bills in the Utah legislature which gave women the right to sit on juries, and brought about the eighthour law for women. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Matilda Huish, ninety-eight, of Spring Lake, Utah; Edith Simons Steadman of West Jordan, Utah, ninety-two; Sarah Smith Boren, Salt Lake City, and Emma J.