[Vol53 | April 1966 | Page 217 | Poetry | Alpine LiHes Dorothy | J. Roberts]
[Alpine LiHes Dorothy J. Roberts]

I know that no person can come to this position and be successful without the preparation of prayer and a sincere desire to perform this assignment in keeping with the high standards of the Relief Society. With your faith and prayers my _inadequacies will be less noticeable. One time a student asked me if I could prove to him that there is a God. My answer was simple and straightforward. I _ said, "No." He then said, "Oh, then what you teach about the gospel is not true, because you can't prove there is a God." It is true, no man can prove the existence of God. What we do is to cite various evidences in nature, the orderliness of the universe, the balance in nature, the resourcefulness of animal life, and man himself as a complex organ- 244 Roy W. Doxey Professor of Scriptures [Address Delivered at the Of Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965] ism. But these things, important as they are to those who are trying to know about a power greater than themselves, really do not prove the existence of God and, certainly, do not reveal the personality and attributes of God. What, then, was my answer to the doubting student? "Although I cannot prove God's existence to you, nor do I believe that any man can do so, the Lord nonetheless has given us assurance that we can know that he lives. This knowledge comes to the individual and not to the multitude. Yes, we can know that God the Father lives, and that Jesus Christ is his Only Begotten Son. This knowledge can come to every individual that lives, provided he will accept the conditions upon which that knowledge is gained." God has not left his children without his fundamental knowledge which Jesus said was necessary in order to receive eternal life. (John 17:3.) We in the Church have come to know that revelation may be received by every person who is prepared for it. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: ""No man can receive the Holy Ghost without receiving revelations. The Holy Ghost is a revelator" (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 328). The apostle Paul said that "no man can say [or know] that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost" (I Cor. 12:3). So evident was this fact made known I to Peter, when he said to Christ "Thou art the Christ, the son of the living God," that Jesus said to him: "... Flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven" (Matt. 16:17). What preparation is necessary to receive revelation that God lives, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God? I believe that Latter-day Saints have come to understand the basic elements which make it possible for one— young or old—to receive this knowledge. Briefly stated, they are: (1) a sincere desire to know; (2) belief or faith in Jesus Christ that he will answer prayer; (3) prayer itself; (4) diligent study to learn God's will; and (5) to live according to the principles of the gospel.

It seems to me that the kind of faith that will bring results was mentioned by President Heber J. Grant about an experience in his early youth.