EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MISS R. L. HOYT carries off the prize
awarded for excellent drawing in the Lon-
don Kensington Art-School; so the ladies
may "hurrah for our side" again.
	MISS KATIE Barton, of Boston, has in-
vented an improvement on sewing machines,
for the marking of sails, tents, awnings, etc.;
she should be acknowledged a representative
of women.
	REPUBLICAN Massachusetts refuses wo-
man the right to vote, by direct action of
the State Legislature. What about the
woman suffrage plank in the State Repub-
lican platform? 
	A YOUNG lady in Maine who had taken
no interest in the cause of woman suffrage,
has been converted to it by hearing it abused
by a young unmarried minister. Preachers
should be cautious how they arouse femi-
nine combativeness.
	SEVEN thousand women of St. Louis
petition the legislature of Missouri to repeal
the law licensing the social iniquity in St.
Louis. It would be better to compel the
men, under whose patronage the vice
flourishes, to take out licenses as well as the
women, who are often their victims.
	ONE CENT a day is to be contributed by
each lady member of the Congregational
churches in Iowa, for five years, with the
view of an endowment fund of $20,000 for
the female department of the State College.
The object is a laudable one, and worthy of
encouragement and success. 
	THE COMMITTEE to investigate charges
against U. S. Senator Patterson unanimously
reported a resolution that he be expelled
the Senate for corruption and perjury.
Grave as are the charges, thus unanimously
endorsed, the Senate has not yet expelled
Patterson. But it passed the Frelinghuysen
bill.
	EX-VICE PRESIDENT Colfax has delivered
several speeches lately to show how inno-
cent he was of the charges made against him
in regard to the Credit Mobilier business;
and he has succeeded in convincing a very
large number of people that he was guilty
as charged, while his friends, cling all the
closer to him. Perverse human nature!
	“AN OBJECT of interest” is what more
than one worthy (?) Utah office, provision
and raiment-seeker has been determined to
become, ere the offices should be all supplied
or Congress should adjourn; and ought they
not now to be satisfied? For this they have
nearly all succeeded in making of them-
selves-"simply this, and nothing more!”
	ON THE 26th of February a Convention
was held in New York for the purpose of
securing a Constitutional amendment,
acknowledging the existence of God in that
instrument. No better amendment could
be made than the adopting of the original
Constitution of the United States, which
has been utterly disregarded by many of
the descendants of its framers.
	IN A late discussion in Congress, on in-
creasing the pay of the members, General
Banks said, arguing in favor of increased
pay because of the increased price of living,
that it was Edward Everett's advice to him
"never to be separated from his family."
This or anything that would have a tendency
to reduce immorality among national legis-
lators and at the federal capital, would be a
public benefit.
	THE REV. J. D. Fulton regards polygamy
as far more scriptural than woman suffrage;
and the agitation of the latter, he alleges,
causes a great decrease in the number of
boy babies. This is a serious matter; for if
the theory be correct, the agitation will
have to be stopped by granting the right of
suffrage to the women or polygamy may
become compulsory in another generation
or so, to prevent the race from dying out.
	AMONG THE late applications for office we
note that of Mrs. Anne Savery, of Des
Monies, Iowa, who is a candidate for
United States Consul at Havre. How this
practical exhibition of woman’s rights would
take in France, should her application be
successful, it is difficult to say; but were
she to seek and obtain the same appoint-
ment for Kiel, or any other German town,
it certainly would not be relished by the
authorities and officials of "Fatherland."
	THE FOLLOWING extract from the Wash-
ington "Star" is of more than usual interest:
"Woman's rights have at length been
recognized in high quarters in England. A
department of the civil service, known as
the local govermment board, has just ap-
pointed a lady poor-law inspector at the
very handsome salary of $2,000 a year to
report upon the domiciles and the treatment
of children who are "boarded out," after
the system which is generally adopted in
Scotland. Mrs. Tassau Senior is the lady
upon whom this distinction has been con-
ferred.” 
	AN EASTERN paper says: "A bill has
been favorably reported to the New York
assembly to incorporate the Young Ladies'
Christian Association of the city of New
York. The object of this corporation is
stated to be the improvement of the
temperance, social, mental, moral and
religious condition in New York. The fifth
article forbids these ladies to manage their
property except with the consent of an advis-
ory committee, named in the charter, and
composed of ten men. The same section
prohibits the associated young ladies from
indulging in wine, whisky, ale or lager
beer, and from gambling in the rooms and
on the premises of the association."
	PRESIDENT GRANT was inaugurated with
great festivities on the 4th inst., the com-
mittee on inauguration having refused to
accede to the petition from certain parties
in the State of New York, urging that a
grand inauguration prayer meeting be held
instead of a ball. The idea of commingling
prayer and dancing is evidently not a
familiar one with the petitioners, any more
than with the inauguration committee.
When one reads the account of the festivi-
ties, the magnificence and the display of
wealth, the mind naturally wanders back to
the days of republican simplicity, and the
thought comes questioning where that
simplicity has gone, and whether such
splendors are not more fitting for an im-
perial court than for "a government of the
people, by the people, and for the people,"
which ours is supposed to be.
	TO HEAR some men talk it would seem
that the chief end of existence was to enjoy
the appetites, and that the greatest charms
of life were whisky and tobacco. On this
theory, the more disgusting and filthy they 
make themselves the happier they are; and
their course would indicate that they be-
lieved in the theory. Is it any wonder that
pure women would cling to a pure man who
shunned and despised such vile and degrad-
ing habits?
	THE SEASON for tourists and travelers will
soon commence, and clergymen will be
relieved for a time from their "arduous
labors" of preaching a couple of times in the
week, and furnished with money to take a
little rest and recreation. It is strange that
this class of men should be so troubled
with bronchitis; strange how women who
have to use the larynx and bronchial tubes
more, are not so easily affected; strange how
"Mormon" Elders, and editors, who work
infinitely harder, have so little solicitation
bestowed upon their health; and strange,
too, how there should be such great neces-
sity that clergymen should travel so much
for their personal benefit—at half rates on
the railroad. Oh, things are wonderfully
changed since the ancient Apostles of the
Savior fished all night for a living;
hawked their fish to market, themselves
barefooted; and then preached in the even-
ing! Who ever heard of Peter, James and
John; or of Brigham, Orson or Wilford in
these latter-days, being sent out on a tour
by steamship and cabin, for the benefit of
their health, and to seek relief from a
bronchial affection?
	THREE YOUNG ladies were lately mur-
dered, two in New Hampshire and one in
Maryland, under most revolting circum-
stances and in a  horrible manner. The
Maryland murderer subsequently threw
himself under a passing freight-train and
was crushed to death. The New Hampshire
one is now in prison awaiting his trial.
Such reports are almost of daily occurrence,
from large cities and country places; and
show that with all the progress made in art,
science and education, crime keeps pace
with the boasted advance of the age, if it
does not lead it. Were the self-proclaimed
philanthropists who are so anxious to con-
vert the people of Utah to a belief in the
necessity of vice, corruption, outrage and
bloodshed, to exert their influence towards
repressing crime nearer home they might
be of some service to society. And if they
wish us to pattern after the society in which
they are shining examples, it would be well
to present us with a pattern for which they
would not have just cause to hide their
faces in burning shame. But while un-
bridled passion, bloodthirstiness and brutal
desires are so rampant, we beg to be per-
mitted to work out our own social problem
in peace, and see if we cannot produce a
better condition of society than is to be
found anywhere else.


GREAT BRITAIN will send an artisan com-
mission of eighty members to Vienna.
	PROF. Tyndall will give all the money he
makes in this country to some scientific
institution.


