		MILL CREEK WARD,
			Salt Lake City, Feb. 18, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	I do not purpose to say much. It is not
my calling to write for a public journal, yet
I desire to say a few words in an humble
way. 
	I am well advanced in years; am the
mother of ten children, and have had an ex-
perience in Celestial or Patriarchal marri-
age for the last twenty-five years, an experi-
ence that many of my sisters have not had.
	It is then of this great and eternal princi-
ple of truth that I wish to bear testimony.
	The rulers of our nation are moving "en
masse to abolish Plural or Patriarchal Mar-
riage, by enactments of stringent and severe
laws, which are not founded in justice,
truth or mercy, but are at war with our
sacred Republican institutions, and with the
only true order of marriage known in the
law of God, or that has ever been revealed
to man by the revelations of Heaven.
	When you take away, in the resurrection,
or in the life which is to come (in the great
plan of man’s redemption,) our sacred marri-
age ties, our family relations, “the Patri-
archal order, that God has ordained,” what
is left? What kind of a heaven is there for
us to inherit? Certainly none worth living
for; but the pious rulers of our nation, and
such “divines” as Parson Newman are
welcome to inherit such—the Latter-day
Saints do not want it.
	The first marriage celebrated on the earth
was for time and for all eternity. When
Adam took his wife he did not know of any
death. There was no “man-made” sectarian
ceremony about this union; no simple
“you take this woman to be your wife
until seperated by death,” No! the bond
reached from earth to the eternities and the
union was as eternal as God himself.
	Through the great atonement of Jesus
Christ, and the keys of authority in the
Everlasting Priesthood that Peter held, will
evreything be restored to man that was lost
in the fall. And Father Adam will have
his wife, or wives. And the faithful Latter-
day Saints, in the resurrection, by the same
Authority, that "binds on earth and it is
bound in heaven," "will have every wife
and child" that is faithful and adheres to 
the laws of God in the days of their proba-
tion. And the rulers of the nations cannot
prevent it. Their power may be felt by the
Church, and by individuals. This has been
the case in other ages of the world's history,
yet the eternal principles and purposes of
God remain the same. Man cannot abolish
what God has ordained. 
