HOME AFFAIRS.

	On February 9th, Miss Eliza R. Snow,
with President George A. Smith and party,
was at Alexandria, in Egypt, and the party ex-
pected to start next day for Cairo, the capital
of Egypt. From thence they proposed going
to Suez, Ismailia, and Port Said, taking
steamer at the last named point for Jaffa, in
Palestine.
	An hour spent pleasantly in Professor Mor-
gan's College, a few mornings since, gave us
an assurance that the gentleman or lady who
has the privilege of regular attendance there,
can hardly fail of becoming so much engaged
in whatever branches of study may be pursued,
as to render school-life dry and irksome in no
respect. The management of the commercial
department and the styles of penmanship
exhibited, were particularly interesting. Evi-
dently, the Principal understands his business.
	As if to apologize and make restitution, for
the heavy snow-storms of the middle and latter
part of February, the grand old weather-king
has been smiling so benignly, through the first
days of March, as to give the beginning of
Spring months almost the lovely appearance of
May’s delightful self. As early as the 10th
inst., birds were singing merrily about the
upper windows; an enterprising honey-bee
danced in and out of doors which it happened
to find ajar, warming its glossy wings in the
sunshine; young ladies skipped about the
streets, which were positively becoming dusty,
with light shawls or none at all on; and older
ones sighed over the near approach of the dread-
ful heat of July and August.
	A very interesting meeting of the mem-
bers of the Physiological class was held
at the Social Hall, their regular place
of meeting, on the afternoon of the 11th
inst. After the usual instructions had
been given and received, Miss Martha
Horne, on behalf of the class, made a presenta-
tion to Miss Mary E. Cook, whose services as
teacher of the class have been gratuitously
given since its organization. The gift, which
had been purchased by the class as a small
token in acknowledgement of their thanks for
and appreciation of Miss Cook’s generous
endeavors was a very handsome dish of artificial
fruit, artistically formed and arranged by Mrs.
Wilkinson of this city. Mrs. Sarah M. Kim-
ball, President of the association, made a
short, appropriate address, which was re-
sponded to in suituble terms by Msis Cook,
It was then moved, seconded and carried,
that the name of the Society be changed from
"Phisiological Class" to “Ladies Educational
Association,” which was considered more
appropriate; also that for various individual
and general causes, the meetings be postponed
for one month.
	There was a time when woman’s chastity
was protected in Utah, and the crime of viola-
tion was unknown here. But with the advent
of a class of lawless men there is a sad change;
and women when alone and unprotected are in
hourly danger. A short time ago a lady ar-
rived at Ogden from Piedmont, on the U. P. R.
R., where she had been teaching school. The
train had been delayed by snow, and did not
reach Ogden until a late hour. She was offered
a room, used as an office, near the track, as a
shelter for herself and a baby in her arms, until
morning, the person who made the offer hand-
ing her the key, and saying that he stopped at
a hotel up in the city. She accepted the offer
with thanks, lonely as the place was, locked
herself in the room, and was preparing to seek
what rest she could for the night, when the
villain who had given her the key forced an
entrance into the place, and with leveled pistol
in hand and by violence committed a crime so
black that the only fitting punishment for it
should be death. He escaped, was captured at
Toano, and brought to this city; and is now
committed for trial, being held in bonds of
$5,000 for his appearance. That is: the federal
Judge who committed him, estimates a wo-
man’s outraged chastity and a life-long horror,
at the price indicated. A wealthy scoundrel
may thus commit crime with impunity, of the
most infamous character, if he can pay for it;
while a poor one may have to suffer imprison_
ment. And this is the manner in which
woman, is “protected” by the administrators
of the law who clamor so loudly against “Mor-
mon” men for caring for, preserving, and really
protecting their own wives, while honoring
chastity in all, and guarding it as a priceless
jewel!


﻿THE Prince of Wales, the Emperor of
Germany, the Hospodar of Montenegro and
M. Thiers will be among the royal and other
distinguished guests at the approaching
Vienna Exposition.	
	THE Shah of Persia wishes to make his
European trip without ostentation, so he
will take with him only three princes of the
blood, three ministers of the first class, seven
of the second, and thirty attendants.
	A RECENT calculation relative to the prin-
cipal European languages shows that Eng-
lish is spoken by 90,000,000 of persons,
German by 55,000,000 Spanish by 55,000,000
and French by 45,000,000.
	AN immense Catholic emigration from
Germany is said to be impending, in conse-
quence of the difficulties between the
Imperial government and the dignitaries of
the Roman Church. The statement seems
to be that the young Catholics will come to
America.
	MINISTER Bancroft and the Greek church
patriarch at Constantinople wagged their
grey beards at each other in mutual compli-
mentary visits, in the city of the Sultan
the other day. The patriarch is ninety-two
years of age, and the minister is believed to
be not more than forty or fifty years older.
	THE World’s exhibition at Vienna will
open in May. The American Commission
is very active in securing space and provid-
ing accommodations for exhibitors from the
United States. A sharp competition Is
expected between British and American
manufacturers of mowers, reapers, and
other improved agricultural machinery.


