HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 

	CARROT SOUP.—Two pounds of carrots,
three ounces of butter, seasoning to taste of
salt and cayenne, two quarts of stock or
gravy soup.
	STEAMED BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING.
—Lay the bread and butter in a basin with
apricot and other jam between; add a custard
as for a baked pudding, and steam it.
	ALDERLY PUDDING.—Two tablespoon-
fuls of ground rice, the same of arrowroot,
the yolks of two eggs, a little grated lemon-
peel, sugar to taste, and one pint of milk
mixed together. Lay a little orange-marma-
lade or other preserve at the bottom, of a
dish, pour over it this mixture, and bake.
	GINGER PUDDING.—One cup not quite full
of suet, two cups of bread-crumbs, two
teaspoonfuls of powdered ginger; mix with
warm molasses, butter a mould or basin,
put in the pudding, and bake; or, if pre-
ferred, steam it in place of baking.
	HOME is the realm in which the wife is
the sovereign, and her sovereignty, will
bring her honor and love according as her
rule over the matters committed to her
trust is wisely and beneficently ordered.
That realm, limited as it is, demands for its
government a much greater and a more
unremitting effort of thought than is always
given to it; for when a wife, intent on mak-
ing the home of her family all that it is  
possible to make it, studies daily how best
by skillful management she can gratify
preferences, please tastes, anticipate wishes, 
keep out of sight little worries, twine pri- 
vations with decorations of love, and lift off
for a while, burdens of care, all of which
appeal to her for thoughtful and graceful
intervention, she seldom fails of securing
her reward which she most dearly prizes.
	A PERSON who has suffered from, or is
subject to, quinsy, should, after an attack
has passed off, use every means of strength-
ening the throat; by this the attacks may
be greatly prevented. Any of the astringent
gargles may be used after quinsy, but none
perhaps answers better, or is more accessible
to the poor, than the decoction of oak bark.
This ought to be used night and morning
for some weeks, and when its use is drop-
ped, the person should acquire the habit of
gargling the throat with cold water at the
above times, “as a regular practice,” and
at the same time should, habitually, lave 
freely with cold water, or salt water at first,
at least, all around the throat. In this way
a tendency to quinsy may be greatly over-
come. Further, all unnecessary muffling,
either by fur or otherwise, about the neck,
should he avoided, for there is no more 
fertile source of sore-throat. Doubtless
many cases of simple soar-throat may be
managed domestically; but the contingen-
cies of crysipelatous or croupy sore-throat, 
or of quinsy, which may suffocate, must
not be lost sight of.


﻿A NIECE of the Pope has lately taken the
veil as a Benedictine nun. 
	SCOTT should be read in the Spring,
Shelly in the fervid Summer, Wordsworth
in Autumn, Cowper and Byron in Winter,
and Shakespeare all the year around.


