RELIGIOUS PERSECUTION. 

	Ladies have assisted materially in the 
election of President Grant, some of us, to 
be sure, considering it “a choice between
the two evils.” Then should we not protest
against any unwise, or cruel act proposed by
the Executive, lest we share in the oppro-
brium?
	Surely, no woman can believe, in a relig- 
ious persecution, in this day, or, indeed, in 
any day. The principle is manish. Yet 
we are informed that President Grant in- 
tends to resume his disastrous course toward 
the Mormons. It is hard enough not to be 
free ourselves. But to see those who have
earned a right to live according to the dic-
tates of conscience by such sufferings, labors
and successes as the Mormons have proved, 
is harder still.		
	Were their women forced to share the 
love of a husband with others, as many 
nearer home are, it might be chivalric in  
President Grant to coerce the men. But  
even then he might better attend to greater 
evils nearer home.	
	The Mormons found a religious belief in 
the Old Testement, men and women alike, 
and put it in practice. Otherwise their
morals are pure, their industry, enterprise
and loyalty are unquestioned; they have
“made the desert to rejoice and blossom as 
the rose.” They are courteous and tolerant 
toward those who differ with them. Until
Eastern States, cities and people are equally 
praiseworthy, let them attack the “beam in
their own eye.”		
	If the President is to give people their 
religious views, why not overhaul the 
Oneida community, or attend to the “Social
Evil?”	
	Even some of the President’s most influen- 
tial male supporters are opposed to his
narrow impolicy in this matter; certainly 
all women must prove their sense of justice,
and belief in equal rights, by protesting
against persecution. Argument and exam- 
ple would finally overthrow polygamy.
Persecution will rouse the martyr spirit, 
and the blood of martys will prove the seed 
of that Church also, as it has for those of
purer faith.
					SHAWANEBEKE.
				In “The Woman’s Journal.”


JAMES Havens of Lynne, Connecticut, has 
fasted for fifty-seven days, it is said.	
	ONE-half of the false hair worn by Ameri- 
can women comes from prisons and lunatic
asylums.
	VERDI brought out Don Carlos, lately, at
Naples, and the audience brought him before 
the curtain thirty times.		
	Jo. Jefferson’s four nights at Baltimore 
produced $6,500. He will play in all the
leading southern cities.
	A MAN named Jackson, who escaped from
Vermont penitentiary, returned and claimed
the fifty dollars reward, and it was given to
him.
	THE Prince and Princess of Wales recently 
lunched with the Duke of Rutland. The
central dish was a boar’s head, and the
second a peacock pie.	
	GEORGE Sand’s translation of the Psalms
is pronounced by the critics to whom she
has read specimens of it, the noblest work
she has ever written.


