			FROM J. R.

Dear Sir:—
	Your counsel wise and good,
Is kind, if never needed;
And being clearly understood
Shall be as strictly heeded.

I know 'twas said by Solomon,
“There is a time for all things;"
But 'tis not written, every one
Shall do b th great and small things:

And those who seek the world’s applause,
And love vain approbation;
Have not the spirit of the Cause
Of Truth, and true Salvation.

l know it were not wise to yield
To worldy, false ambition:
I'd labor in a richer field—
Fulfill a holier mission.	
							L. L.


F. R. Society Reports

		Mill Creek Ward 
			Salt Lake Co., Feb. 18, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:—	
	At a meeting of the Relief Society of this
Ward, held in the Ward-house on the 11th
inst., the word “Female” was dropped from
the name of the Society by unanimous
vote. This Society is in every way, in a
healthy and prosperous condition. We hold
our  meetings monthly, which are well
attended. In a short time we shall have
ready a very suitable hall for meetings and
the business operations of the Society,
		Rhoda Ann Miller, President,

			Salem, Utah County,
				February 16th, 1873.
Editor Woman’s Exponent;—
	The Salem Relief Society was organized
January 7th, 1869, with Mary E. Reed,
President; Mrs. Lucinda Jackman and Mrs.
Sarah W. Curtis, Counselors; Matilda P.
Killian, Secretary and Esther M. Reed,
Treasurer. During the four years since our
organization, our means has been very
limited, yet, we have been able to meet
every demand upon our charity. We have
thirty dollars in the Co-operative store, and
a little sum, (seventeen dollars) which we
are enlarging every week, to aid in gather-
ing the poor; then we still have in the
treasury, besides the above, cash and
property to the amount of one hundred and
twenty-two dollars. We are prospering and
feel to thank God for the wisdom and
knowledge that has enabled us, thus far, to
fill the mission that has been given us as
honorably as we have done. The sisters are
united in their efforts to do good and help
to build up the Kingdom of God upon the
earth that they may receive the reward of
the faithful.
			M. P. Killian, Secretary.

		Newton, Cache Co., U. T.
			February 12th, 1873.
Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	At a meeting of our Relief Society, held
January 3rd, 1873, a motion to have the
word “Female” dropped from the name,
according to Sister Eliza R. Snow’s sugges-
tion, was carried by a unanimous vote.
	Although our Society is not so forward as
others, our desire is to continue to do all
the good we can until circumstances will
admit of our doing more. Our settlement
is new; we have labored under various disad-
vantages. The means accumulated, has
been used in relieving the needy, and feed-
ing the Indians. We hope to be able to do
more in the future than we have done in
the past.
	Your valuable paper is much appreciated
here, and it is the expressed desire of many
to subscribe for it as soon as circumstances
will permit.
		Isadora Beck, President.
	A. M. Young, Secretary.

	The General Retrenchment meeting at
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, in this
city, Saturday, March 1st, was very well
attended. The spirit of unity and the desire
to improve in knowledge of a useful char-
acter appear to increase with the sisters.
And from the many impressive and sanguine
testimonies borne, it might well be inferred
that the doings of Congress at that critical
time, or other worldly missiles which might
be aimed to overthrow the Kingdom of the
great God, had but little weight on the
minds of the faithful daughters of Zion.

	Third Ward Relief Society,
		Provo City-, March 9th, 1873,
Dear Exponent:—
	At a meeting in November, our Society
voted unanimously to drop the word "Fe-
male,” and a report was at once forwarded,
together with money for four numbers of
the Exponent; which, owing to some mis-
take, carelessness or dishonesty in some
quarter, you did not receive,
	Our Society is doing well; our ward is
small and not well off, but we have no in-
digent poor. We give assistance occasionally,
but have no steady pensioners. We feel an
interest in the welfare of our excellent paper,
and in the rolling forth of the work of God.
	M. J. Tanner, President.

