A COOL-HEADED YOUNG WOMAN.

	A short distance this side of Union, on the
Union and Titusville Railroad, there is a
very long and very high trestle, and one
upon which nobody ventures who is at all
inclined to be light-headed. Immediately
this side of the trestle there is a sharp curve
in the road, so that a person walking on it
can not be seen by the engineer of an
approaching train until it is nearly upon
him. On Friday last, as Mr. Wm. Toles,
engineer of Mr. Holmes’ train came around
the curve at a good rate of speed, he was
horrified to discover a lady about the mid-
dle of the trestle, and hardly a train’s length
from him. Quick as thought “Billy”
whistled “down brakes,” gave her sand, and
threw back the reversing lever, while at
the same time he knew that it was an utter
impossibility to check the heavy train before
the victim would be overtaken and crushed
to death, and with fixed eyes he awaited
the catastrophe. The lady heard the
warning Whistle, and turning her head saw
the iron monster almost upon her. Escape
seemed impossible, to remain was certain
death, to jump to the ground beneath, a
distance of thirty or forty feet, equally cer-
than death, and to attempt to run ahead and
escape was out of the question. Unlike
ten thousand young ladies—and she is said
to have been young and fair—out of ten
thousand and one, she did not scream or
faint or indulge in any nonsense of any kind,
but realizing the situation in an instant, and
taking the chances all in, she proceeded to
an action that saved her life. About thirty
inches below the ends of the ties, and im-
mediately under the stringer which supports
them, there is a joint five inches wide run-
ning from one support of the trestle to
another, and to this the clear-headed girl
resorted for safety. Stepping to the end of
the ties she swung herself down to this
narrow thread with the apparent case of a
gymnast, and with her arms clasped around
it stretched herself at full length along it as
the train thundered by almost over her. As
soon as the engineer saw her action he threw
off his brakes, and putting on steam hurried
past as soon as possible, when she nimbly
sprang to the track again and pursued her
journey as though nothing had happened.
—“Titusville (Penn.) Herald.”


﻿THERE can certainly be no greater felicity
than to be able to look back on a life usefully
and virtuously employed, and to trace our
progress in existence by such tokens as
excite neither shame nor sorrow.


