HOME AFFAIRS.

	The Utah question and the woman question
should change corners during one session of
Congress.
    IT IS worth noteing, that the heaviest snow-
storm which has fallen in this valley for years
commenced on Monday night last, 24th ult.,
and continued until Wednesday morning.  A
very large amount of snow fell during the time.
    PRESIDENT BRIGHAM Young has returned
from Southern Utah, where he has spent
the winter so far. It is gratifying to state that
his health is good, and that he enjoyed himself
very much while south; while the Saints there
appreciated his society.
    WE LEARN from a private communica-
tion from Fountain Green, Sanpete County,
that considerable sickness in those parts is
occasioned by a disease which some pronounce
Small-pox. Our correspondent had heard of
no deaths resulting from it at the time of writ-
ing.
    THROUGH COURTESY of President Mrs. Mary
I. Horne, of this city, and President Mrs. Jane
S. Richards, of Ogden, we are enabled to fur-
nish our readers in this number of the
EXPONENT, with two highly interesting
communications from “the Representative of
the Ladies of Utah, abroad"—Sister Eliza R.
Snow.
    THE EXPONENT has once stated that all
communications, addressed to its columns, to
receive attention must be accompanied by the
signature of the writer.  Again it becomes
necessary for us to request contributors to send
us their names—not for publication, except
they desire it—as was before stated, but because
it is proper for us to know who our correspond-
ents are.
    THE PALESTINE party, when last heard from,
were at Naples, Italy, on January 29th, and
were to leave the next morning for Egypt.
On the 27th they visited the excavation of
Pompei, buried for eighteen centuries; the
next day they visited Herculaneum, also buried
at the same time by an eruption of Vesu-
vius; and on the 29th they ascended the
burning mountain, President George A. Smith
being carried up in a chair, and looked down
the awful crater which has so often belched
destruction on the towns and villages at its
base.
    DURING THE week between the 15th and 22nd
of last month two deaths occurred, news of which
was sent all through the Territory, and from
which our young people, particularly the male
portion of the youth of our communities, may
draw striking examples of a highly beneficial
character. We refer to the dreadful, horrifying 
doom of the outlaw and murderer, young Ben-
son, of Logan; and the calm, hopeful, holy
death of the trusty servant and follower of
God, Major William Pitt, of this city.  Of the
former, little need be said; the gloomy circum-
stances connected with a life so dark, a death
so terrible, stand without comment, a fearful
warning to persons of unrestrained passions, or
those who are given to vicious habits.  But a
death and funeral like that of Elder Pitt, can
only be pronounced a triumph, for which, it
was worth living an honest, virtuous useful
life. To witness such a gathering of friends,
and to listen to the cheerful, light-producing
testimonies of inspired men on such an occa-
sion, bring up the hopeful thoughts of one of
old, “Let me live the life of the righteous,
and die like this just man.”


