CAMPBELL & PATTERSON,
	Dealers in Books, Stationery and Newspapers,
East Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Orders from the country solicited.
	Liberal discount to Sunday school Libraries.
	General Agents for Woman’s Exponent.
SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
	We would respectfully call your attention to the
fact, that we have one of the Largest and best Stocks
of Ladies’, Misses’ and Children’s FURS in Sets, as
also Capes and Collars (separate), that will be found
in this City. Also a large assortment of Fine Shoes
of Philadelphia and California make.
	The above goods we will sell at the lowest possible
price.
					DUNFORD & SONS,
						SALT LAKE CITY.
Z. C. M. I.
	Retail Dry Goods Department. 
To meet the demand of an increasing business we
have added an essential addition to our
			RETAIL ROOM,
wherein the most economical buyer can be suited.
It is our highest ambition to suit our various visitants
and purchasers, and to display our varied fabrics
regardless of purchase.
	This department aims to suit the demands of all 
whether in
	DOMESTIC OR FANCY DRESS GOODS,
either by the yard or piece.
				H. B. CLAWSON, Sup’t.
			NEW    CLUB    RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an 
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume, 
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do.

10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	   	up of the club	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	        up of the club	-	-	-	-         26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	        up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
		ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
		Young, selling price, $2 50 	-	- 	   34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
		up of the club, and a superior first proof, 
		steel engraving of President Brigham
		Young.    handsomely framed, selling
		price $4		-	-	-	-			    48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has 
been sent. 
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT. 
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY, 
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street. 
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies 
to purchase. 
DR.  W. H. GROVES, 
								DENTIST,
	Office Second South Street.  Three doors west of 
Great Western Hotel, half a block east of Elephant
Store, Salt Lake City. 
		    Office Hours from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
