	FACTS AND FIGURES.

	A GRAND central depot is to be built in
Boston.
	St. Louis erected 1,500 new buildings
last year.
	THE Maine Agricultural College has 71
students.
	THE new chapel for Yale College is to cost
$100,000.
	BRAZIL is the best customer for New-
foundland codfish.
	THE ice crop on the Hudson will reach
1,500,000 tons this season.
	SENATOR Patterson has been offered the
Presidency of the Ohio Agricultural College.
	SAN Francisco has made 7,000 kangaroo
hides into fine boots.
	“ZION'S Herald,” of Boston, has celebrated
its fiftieth birthday.
	THE present is the worst hunting season
England has known for years.
	SOME 500 horses have been clipped by
machinery in Boston this Winter.
	THE number of emigrants who left Liver-
pool for America in 1872 was 164,000.
	MR. Poole, the famous London tailor, is
about to retire from business with £500,000.
	MME. de Perinot has left 20,000 francs to
the French Academy to found a prize for
astronomical researches.
	INDIANA farmers band together and run
saur kraut factories on the same principle
that cheese factories are conducted.
	OVER thirty brave and sensible girls in the
high school of Portland have resolved to
discard overskirts, laces, jewelry, and other
expensive articles of dress while attending
school.
	CONNECTED with Mr. Spurgeon’s Sunday 
school, in London, is a Bible class, taught by
Mrs. Lavinia Harkness, which enrolls nine 
hundred women, and has an average attend-
ance of over five hundred.
	MRS. General Sanderson, of Washington,
Ohio, owns a box, said to have been brought
to America by Cortez, when he came to con-
quer Mexico. It Is inlaid with ivory, and
its ago is thought to be about four hun-
dred years.
	Fisk University, the colored educational
institution at Nashville, Tenn., has profited
so largely by its band of “Jubilee singers,”
who have been traveling through the North,
that it will erect a fine college building from
the proceeds.
	A GERMAN Countess, who is an earnest
Catholic, has made a curious vow, to present
to the Pope every year a purse of gold coin
and a baptized Jew. The first of these
offerings was made a short time since, the
Jew being made a member of the church at
Basilica, with imposing ceremonies.
	SOUTH African papers tell of a farm of
240,000	acres, on which is a flock of 10,000
sheep—besides 10,000 Angora goats—which
are said to be far more profitable there than
sheep, and there is a promise of a rapid
extension of these flocks. The Angora goat
wool, as produced there, is much finer than
that of the sheep.
	FRANCE not only lost provinces, armies,
and an immense sum of money through the
late war with North Germany, but by the
session of Metz, she lost a military library,
of which there is not the equal left in the
Republic. This celebrated institution con-
tained 40,000 printed volumns, many of
which were extremely rare, besides numer-
ous manuscripts and drawings, many of
which were of a highly precious character.


