			FLORENCE. 

	Beneath high, villa-dotted hills 
		That in succession rise 
	Like rich gemm’d parapets around; 
		The lovely Florence lies.

 	The Arno, broad and gentle stream, 
		That flows meand’ring through, 
	Divides, but in unequal parts, 
		The city platt in two. 

	I’ve seen its princely palaces  
		Where wealth and ease reside— 
	Where independence fills her sails 
		With luxury and pride. 

	I see you, Florence, all the while, 
		So beautiful and gay; 
	I ask, Is this your common dress, 
		Or, this your holiday? 

	Be wise; and while their golden show’rs 
		The bounteous heav’ns distil;
	Avoid debasing luxury, 
	Prolific source of ill.

	The crown of Peace is on your head— 
		Its wreath around your brow; 
	The royal carpet, newly spread, 
		Adorns your threshold now.

From Florence we went to Pisa—from thence
to Rome.
	Of the much I have seen here, I can say
but little in one letter. We are traveling
under the direction of Mr. Cook, the Lon-
don tourist. He furnished a guide to take
us out five days, and show us the most
interesting portions of the city. Our pro-
gramme concluded last evening; and feeling
that I have “done Rome,” I am doing up
matters to-day, preparatory to leaving for
Naples to-morrow—writing you is one of
the items.
	Among the many curiosities witnessed, I
will mention one remarkably singular, al-
though not the most pleasing. It is the
“Cemetery of the Capuchins,” in the Fran-
ciscan Monastery. Our guide took us to the
door, where we were met by a monk who
conducted us through four apartments in
which five thousand and four hundred
monks had been buried, and nearly all of
the bones of these persons were in plain
view. A narrow path on one side of the
room afforded a passage, parallel with which
was a railway over a very low wall to pre-
vent intrusion into the main portion of the
room which the bones occupied. It is
impossible to describe the sensation pro-
duced by the sight of millions of human
bones assorted and arranged—some on
arches from four to five feet high, under
which a body apparently in a similar
state to that of an Egyptian mummy, was
standing, dressed in a black gown, others
were symmetrically formed into niches where
other bodies were placed in a reclining
position; others were arranged in fanciful
forms and figures on the celings above.
The long bones were packed by themselves
—the arches being mostly formed by them,
and some of them crowned with several
rows of sculls—the small ones being used
in making ornaments. Every thing, the
chandeliers, candlesticks, etc., were made
of bones! The arrangement of them re-
quired much care and study, and no very
slight artistic skill.
	The manner of these monks is, when they
bring a body, to take up the bones of the
one that had been the longest buried, and
place the fresh one in the vacancy, and in
this way the bones are, accumulating from
time to time.
	Those bodies which do not decompose,
are placed in the arches and niches of these
bony structures, and preserved in this state.
We saw a number of them—one who died
as late as 1867, with whom our guide had
been well acquainted.
	With all the seemingly ludicrous arrange-
ments, these bones are sacredly prized by
the living monks. On being asked if they
would sell a skull, the answer was decidedly
“no." The strange curiosity of this exhibi-
tion interested me much, but I was glad to
turn my face in the direction of fresh air, as
soon as the novelty of the scene was ex-
plained.
	We visited the palace of Victor Emanuel
—passed through halls, reception rooms,
antechambers, state rooms, dining rooms,
etc., very beautiful—the furniture rich, and
altogether magnificent. We should have
been better satisfied had we interviewed
the occupant, but that was not included in
the programme.
