WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WORDS of cheerful encouragement often
do more good than costly presents.
	LORENZA Silva, a Mexican lady, died
with the weight of 150 years, less eleven
days, on her head.


(For the EXPONENT,
HONEST HEARTS vs. POLlSHED MAN-
				NERS.

	“Give me the honest heart and the rough
bark;” says Bro. Gruff, and—“Mark my
words, that fellow is too polite to be honest.”
	Wherefore, brother? Is not politeness
truly a christian grace? and is it absolutely
necessary to sacrifice honesty in order to
achieve politeness? If so, by all means
choose honor as the greater virtue; but I
doubt if a person can be truly and thoroughly
honest without being polite. As I under-
stand the term, “politeness” signifies “con-
siderate kindness of manners.”
	Is there anything wrong in being consid-
erate of another’s rights, feelings, or even
whims? or rather, does not the absence of
such consideration betoken dishonesty?
	Because it is pleasant and graceful, is it
any the less honest to say “I beg pardon,”
after slightly injuring another’s rights or
feelings? And are not smiling “Thank
you’s” for little favors received, as much
more honest as more charming than grim
silence? If our sons stand in easy, graceful
attitudes, are capable of executing captivat-
ing bows, are never culpable of wearing hats
nor whistling indoors, and never talk slang,
is it any shadow of an argument that their
morals are not good? If so, I am too blind
to perceive it.
	“But” argues Bro. Gruff, “a polished man-
ner is so good a cloak for rogues to hide
their wickedness under.” Now that would
imply that rogues are generally polished;
but I venture the assertion, that for one
polished rascal you will find ten rude ones;
but, admitting that it is not so, why con-
demn a virtue in order to reach a vice?
Discriminate, and condemn insincerity, in-
stead of the virtue counterfeited.
	There never was a counterfeit without
a true coin to copy from, and if rogues try
to hide their villainy behind a pleasing
address, that of itself is a proof of its worth;
for no one would take the trouble to copy
anything so intrinsically worthless as to be
inadequate to their aims. Besides, there
is no counterfeit so clever as to defy all
tests, and if polished rogues, by their fair
exterior lead any astray, it is through the
victims' vanity, greed, envy or other weak-
ness, and herein is an all-sufficient test; If
any one addresses himself to such feelings
he is thus far dishonest and should be
shunned; but so long as his urbanities appeal
to our nobler and better sentiments, there
is no harm in him, let his secret principles
be what they may. But the moment his
fingers strike a key, which does not cord
with honor, beware!
	One wiser than we, said, “Be courteous,”
and to do so, does not require us to be in-
sincere or crafty. Honesty and polished
manuers are not antagonistic; they are
individual flowers in the ambrosial bouquet
of graces; and because one may be fairer
or sweeter than another, is no reason for
discarding the other. Beloved youth, fear
not to cultivate a pleasant addess, for, thus
draped, your pure integrity will be doubly
alluring and effective. ’Tis but a choice
in habits, after all, and since we cannot
avoid forming habits of some kind, pure
gratitude for the choice, should lead you
to choose those which are at once the more
pleasant and the more profitable.
	All things are to be judged by that which
they effect; and civility and grace never
yet injured their possessor, and when not
linked with dishonesty, they just as richly
benefit those who come in contact with
them. A favor asked in a courteous manner
is far more readily granted than one which
savors of demand; and one granted gra-
ciously, gives far more happiness to the
recipient.
	Well bred ways, will secure for you respect
and favor, when your friend of churlish
manners would be severely slighted. 
	Politeness shall be the pure gold setting
for your priceless pearl of honesty.
								L. L. D.


