CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW

			Milan, Italy, Jan. 1st, 1873.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
Dear Sister:—
	How very changefull are the events of
human life! One year ago, the idea of
addressing you from Italy at the commence-
ment of this year would have seemed almost
an impossibility. But here I am, a long
distance from what to me is the dearest
spot on earth—the home of the Saints of the
living God. The lapse of time, since part-
ing with you, and the many dear ones
associated with you in Ogden, has been a
constant routine of change combined with
deep interest. Our party consists of Presi-
dent George A. Smith, Elders Lorenzo
Snow, Paul A. Shettler, Feramorz Little,
George Dunford, Thomas Jennings, Miss
Clara Little and your humble servant. So
far as society is concerned, we are indepen-
dent wherever we are, and enjoy ourselves
as well as possible for people abroad, feeling
assured of the faith and prayers of the
righteous; and I assure you that I never for-
get a tribute of gratitude to those through
whose love, kindness and generous energies
the privilege of this tour is extended to me.
I have, so far, enjoyed it far beyond my
anticipations. Two months and one week,
and I am between seven and eight thousand
miles from home, having traveled through
England—visited the most prominent cities
in Holland and Belgium; and in France the
cities of Paris, Versailles, Lyons, Marseilles
and Nice. After leaving Nice we enter the
dominions of Victor Emanuel—our first
stopping place in Italy, according to our
programme, would be Genoa, but in conse-
quence of heavy rains having made a break
in the railroak, we stopped one night in
Rome, and went the next day to Genoa, the
birth-place of Christopher Columbus. From
Genoa we went to Turin and came thence to
this place.
	The national religion, we found since
leaving England to be Catholic. I had
never witnessed the service until in Brus-
sels. This being New Year’s Day, “High
Mass”' was performed in the grand “Cathe-
dral of Milan,” which we attended. The
Cathedral is a magnificent Gothic structure,
containing fourteen chapels; it is, by many,
considered the finest in the world. We
were informed that the service on the
occasion was of the highest order; certainly
much of it was sensless form and unmean-
ing, though dazzling display. I enjoyed the
singing and the sweet music of the two
organs, which played alternately. The
Archbishop, who represented the Pope in
all respects except that his hand instead of
his toe was kissed, was most gorgeously
dressed—bearing, at times, upon his head a
supurb mitre, and at other times, according
to the requirements of the service, it was
taken off by an officiate and held until again
required and then replaced. The burning
of incense was profuse. Great numbers,
variously attired, officiated on the occasion,
and the congregation was immense. The
services were performed in Latin and it is
presumable, as little comprehended by the
majority of the church members as by us.
I readily understood that many of the people
present were, like ourselves, spectators.
But when I looked upon the congregation and
saw some crossing themselves, some rever-
ently kneeling and others bowing, first to a
golden crucifix, then to the Archbishop, my
heart responded—How long, O Lord, shall
these, thy children be bound in the dwarf-
ing chains of traditional superstition and
ignorance? It is true the powers of earth
are shaking, but at present, l can see no hope
for millions of people under the training of
the Mother of harlots, and the influence of
Priestcarft, but through the ordinances for
the dead. Such were my reflections while
I remained a spectator in the midst of a
great multitude, in the stately and superb
Cathedral of Milan, which is described as
being four hundred and eighty-six feet in
length, and its total breadth three hundred
and fifty feet.
	As we approached Marseilles, the face of
the country, which had been level, assumed
a very uneven appearance, hills approximat-
ing to the dimensions of mountains; and for
the first time on our route, we saw groves
of olive trees, and occasionally oranges; and
when we reached the Mediterranean, they
became very common, ornamenting the
cities along the coast—the orange and lemon
trees being loaded with golden fruit; some
of them, very large, must have been planted
long ago.
	Our present location is inland from the
sea, and the olive, orange and lemon have
all disappeared, save as the orange is placed
on our dinner table every evening for desert.
On this side the Atlantic, I have not seen
apples that would compare with those of our
mountain home—most of those we have
seen are very ordinary.
							January 2nd.
	Yesterday was rainy—to-day being favor-
able, we ascended five hundred and twelve
marble steps, which brought us to the plat-
form of the great cupola of the Cathedral
above mentioned, where we had a most
delightful view of the whole city; and but
for a fog which encircled the distant horizon,
we might have seen the surrounding chains
of snow-capped mountains in the distance.
	To-morrow morning we leave for Venice.
	Yours with love.
							Eliza R. Szow.

						Venice, Italy,
							Jan. 5th, 1873.
Beloved Sister Horne:—
	We arrived here on the 3rd, the same
evening I received a note with your signa-
ture attached. In acknowledging the
receipt I would give expression to my feel-
ings were it in my power to do so, but I
leave you to imagine. 	*	*	*	*		
Venice is a very interesting city, both on
account of its history and its singular loca-
tion, Approaching it, for a considerable
distance, the railroad track is laid on artificial
ground, with water lying on each side.
When we arrived at the commodious depot,
gondolas were waiting to take us to “Grand
Hotel Victoria;” and with two gondolas for
our persons—four in each—and one for our
baggage, we landed on the threshold of our
hotel.
	This city is said to have been built on
seventy-two islands. Pedestrians can go into
all parts of the city, but gondolas instead of
horses and carriages are used, the people
having no other means for riding. Yester-
day afternoon, our whole party took a gon-
dola ride, and visited a factory for the
manufacture of glass, where they were
making artificial eyes for men and animals,
together with every fancy ornamental thing
imaginable. The most beautiful looking-
glass I ever saw, with a white glass frame
most delicately wrought, was prized at three
thousand five hundred francs; We were
told that three of the kind were in America,
purchased in Venice.
	Our intelligence from Salt Lake has not
been very profuse. The only paper received
from there is the Salt Lake “Herald,”
which comes occasionally and is a rich treat
to us all. Arrangments are made with brother
Carrington to forward all trans-Atlantic
mail matter from Liverpool to different
points as President Smith designates to him
from time to time. *	*	*	*	By the
“Herald” I learned the sad news of the
death of your lovely, precious daughter. I
can think of no one better prepared to go—
although so young she was ripened for a
higher state of existence. For her there is
no cause for mourning, but when I think of
her father and mother, her young, bereaved
husband, the loss to her brothers and sisters
and the loss to the community where her
noble example has had a purifying influence;
my heart overflows with sympathy and
sorrow. How you will miss her! But
trained as you have been in the Gospel of
Jesus, you know where to look for consola-
tion. God alone can breathe comfort to the
deeply stricken heart. When I think of the
bereaved ones—I feel to mourn, but when I
think of the pure, noble, lovely Julia, whose
earthly mission is so soon accepted, she
spared a longer period of toil, struggle and
suffering, my feelings are buoyant and my
imagination, if I may call it so, follows her
triumphant spirit to the happy abodes of
purity and eternal peace. May the daughters
of Zion imitate her worthy example? God
bless you my dear sister and fill your heart
with his comforting Spirit.
					   Eliza R. Snow.


﻿[For the Exponent. 
