		WHY WASH MONDAY?

	"THERE'S ne’er a bit of comfort took
	Upon the washing day"
Has been verified in thousands of homes
where steam, suds, confusion, a “picked up”
dinner and cross looks, if not words, are
always the accompaniements of that dreaded
Monday. But why do you select Monday as
the washing day? If you have no better
reason than because your grandmother
always did, it would be about as sensible for
your husband to go to mill with the grist in
one end of the bag and a stone in the other, to
balance, because that was his grandfather’s
way. If you keep the Sabbath and do no
work on that day that can be dispensed with,
you will find more to do on Monday than
any other day of the week. Then the
Saturday’s baking has vanished and needs
to be renewed, and there are always little
things to be done preparatory to washing
—garments to be finished or mended and
clothes to be put to soak.
	Tuesday is a much more covenient day for
washing, and the work will be rendered
lighter by the preparations of the previous
day--preparations which ought not to be made
on the Sabbath. Then don’t exert yourself
too much for the sake of getting the washing
done by some particular hour. I know
whereof I speak; for haven’t I arisen while
it was yet night, just late enough to escape
the sin of the good deacon’s wife, who
washed on Sunday, and accomplished the
washing before breakfast; sustained through
the unaccustomed hours of labor, and for the
loss of sleep, by the thought that my long
line of snowy clothes would excite the envy
and admiration of my neighbors when they
first looked out in the morning. Then be-
cause the clothes were dried, spinkled, and
folded in the morning, I have done the
ironing in the afternoon, and have finished
that Monday’s performances by going to bed
and staying there the rest of the week sick.
	If you cannot get the washing done in
time to have the clothes dried the same day,
leave them in the rinsing-water till the
next; or if your washings are very large,
take two days for it,—anything rather than
have the washing-day so filled with hard
work and confusion for which the clean
clothes it produces are no compensation, nor
to the tired-out house-wife for the severe
labors of that ever to-be-dreaded day.—
Moore’s “Rural New Yorker.”
	ARSENICAL POISONING.—Persons inhabit-
ing rooms, the walls of which are covered
with paper colored with Schele’s green, or
in which are kept objects of natural history
preserved with arsenical preparations, are
alike liable to suffer from poisoning. Arsen-
ious gases are developed by the reaction of
arsenious acid upon the organic compound
with which it comes in contact, and the air
and dust of the room become dangerously
charged with poisonous matter.
	A CHEAP DISINFECTANT.—The following
is highly commended by those who have
used it:—Dissolve a bushel of salt in a barrel
of water, and with the salt water slack a
barrel of lime, which should be wet enough
to form a kind of paste. For the purpose of
a disinfectant, this home-made chloride of
lime is nearly as good as that purchased at
the shops and drug stores.    Use it freely
about sinks, cellars, gutters, and outhouses,
and in this way prevent sickness, suffering,
and expense.
	TO COLOR SHEEP SKINS.—Unslacked
lime and litharge equal parts, mixed to a
thin paste with water, will color buff—
several coats will make it a dark brown; by
adding a little ammonia and nitrate of silver
a fine black is produced. Terra japonica
will impart a “tan color” to wool, and the red
shade is deepened by sponging with a solu-
tion of lime and water, using a strong
solution of alum water to “set” the colors; 1
part crystallized nitrate silver, 8 parts car-
bonate ammonia, and 1 1/2 parts of soft water
dyes brown; every additional coat darkens
the color until a black is obtained.
	LEMON TWISTS.—Take a pound of flour,
half a pound of butter and twelve ounces of
loaf sugar, with enough essence of lemon to
flavor and a teaspoonfull sal volatile; pour
in beaten eggs and sufficient milk to moisten
the paste; roll it out, cut it into strips, plait
them together in threes, brush the outside
with milk, strew beaten sugar upon the tops
and bake the twists upon buttered tins about
twenty minutes. Grated lemon peel and
juice may be substituted for the essence.


﻿BRET[-] Harte, according to the Chicago
Journal, was arrested in Boston for an un-
paid tailor’s bill.
	MRS. Samuel Colt makes $800,000 a year
by the sale of revolvers. She supplies the
New York markets liberally.


