SPLINTERS.

	In the forests of Maine, in the latter part
of February, snow was four feet deep......
The manner in which Poppleton drew tears
out of the eyes of Oaks Aames, is pro-
nounced “beautiful (!)”......There are 1,000
alligators in a hole on James’ Island, near
Charleston, South Carolina......Philadelphia
has contributed a block of marble for the
Washington monument........The standard of
admission to Yale College is to be raised,
doubtless in view of woman’s rights being
universally acknowledged......The Empress
Eugenie is, for her age, young looking;
wears a sweet, pensive expression, and is
beloved by all who have had a chance of
becoming attached to her......The remains
of 117 steam-boats lie on the bottom of the
Arkansas river......Eighteen Cadets, at West
Point, failed to pass and were discharged......
The exhibition building at Vienna was
reported completed in February......Rhode
Island has 3,000 militia......The inaugural
ball given in Washington, on the 5th inst.,
was the grandest ever given in this country.
......Eastport, Maine, has had an earth-
quake......Iron ore is found in twenty-eight
counties, inTennessee...Michigan City claims
to be the second lumber-point on the Lakes.
A boy in Mound City, Kansas, was lately
chased into the river and killed by a cata-
mount......A fever is raging in southwest
Missouri—the “mining fever.”...........The
horse-disease has attacked the cows in Sny-
der county, Pennsylvania......An elegant
boulevard is contemplated at Concord, New
Hampshire......Cold weather in Louisiana
has been destructive to bees in more than
ordinary style this season......Boston fired a
hundred guns on inauguration-day......San
Jose, California, boasts that in its balmy
climate, tomatoes and cats flourish in the
open air all winter.......A Minnesota judge
decides that shaving on Sunday is illegal.
.......A youth in the same State tried to start
his horse by hitting it with his gun which
went off, carrying three of his fingers with
it......Prince Gortschakoff, it is reported,
will settle the boundaries of Afghanistan by
a special Anglo-Russian committee......A
royal decree has been issued in Rome, by
which the Italian Government takes formal
possession of the convents in that city......
Bass, an English beer-brewer, is to be made
a baronet.......Prince Albert of Russia is to
be married in April.......The Russian Czar-
owitz accompanies his mother to Italy for
the benefit of his health......Returns of the
London Board show, that for the year 1872
the foreign trade of Great Britain reached
the enormous total of $3,046,690,000......The
new President of Mexico, Lerdo de Tejada,
is 45 years old, noted for eloquence as an
orator, possessed of great energy and cour-
age, and a lawyer......A new combustible,
said to give more heat and be cheaper than
coal, has lately been discovered in Italy......
It is reported that the Italian Government
has issued imperative instructions to the
Prefect of Turin to impede all emigration to
this country, and to permit only those
Italians to leave who have documentary
assurances of their employment when they
arrive here......A school-teacher in Minne-
sota procured food and bed-clothing from a
neighbor, and kept his entire school in-
doors, refusing any one permission to
attempt to go home during a late, long and
fearful storm......Pope Pius IX  has wit-
nessed the death of 100 Cardinals during his
pontificate of a quarter of a century......Miss
Emerson, of New York, claims the author-
ship of “Betsy and I are out.”......A ninety-
mile walk on snow-shoes was recently
performed by a woman in Michigan......Two
English sisters, in Berlin, have just put up
their sign as dentists......Listz, the music
professor, pronounces a young lady his most
promising pupil. It is Miss Anna Finken-
staedt, who has lately entered the concert-
field......Report says an attempt is being made
to reduce Queen Victoria to poverty by
cutting down her income to the sum paid
the President of the United States......
Ohio has three million acres more of culti-
vated land than Pennsylvania......Congress
prohibits gift photographic establishments
in Washington......Great damage has been
done by recent floods on the Delaware river.
......Montana is considered the best watered
region west of the Mississippi river......A
man in Cleveland has sued that city for
$5,000 for catching the small-pox there......
George Eliot made $40,000 by her "Middle-
march.”......Thirty-nine medals struck in
honor of Benjamin Franklin are owned by a
Bostonian......Miss Emily Faithful has had
large and attentive audiences in Washing-
ton......Mrs. Kate N. Doggett, of Chicago, has
lately delivered a series of Art-lectures
before the Christian Union Association.
......Delaware is to have a Constitutional
Convention on the 20th of May......The facts
and theories of Darwinism are to be lectured
on and explained by Rev. Rowland Connor,
of Florence.


