WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿	[Written for the EXPONENT.
	LETTER FROM BEAVER.
			—
	On the afternoon of the 20th ult., Presi-
dent Young’s party arrived in Beaver, and
notice was circulated that a meeting
would be held, and although it was
then after four o'clock, and very cold, the
house was filled to overflowing.
	Bro. Staines first addressed the assembly,
comparing the ease and comfort of the
present day, with the privations of former
times; demonstrating to the Saints that
labor, and not money, was the essential of
success in building up Zion—that labor, and
not capital, redeemed this fair land from a
howling wilderness. He urged the Saints
to improve their own homes and build up
their own cities, instead of selling their
handicraft to others for money. He also
spoke about the ways and manners of the
young; urging them to cultivate sober and
steady habits; saying that mothers confessed
hat although poverty and hardship had
stung them, and death had torn their child-
ren from their arms in infancy, they never
knew what sorrow was until their sons
approached manhood and disregarded good
advice, plunging into dissipation, wasting
time, health and self-respect in a certain
kind of enjoyment, which leaves a sting
behind.
	After him, Bp. Lorenzo D. Young occupied
a few minutes, but excused himself from much
speaking on the ground that his brother
was going to speak, and did not want to
hold the meeting late.
	President Young said he did not rise to
preach, he had done preaching enough
thirty years ago, to convert the world, had
the world listened; but he wished now to
converse a little with his friends.
	He spoke about the wilful blindness of the
world, its readiness to believe a falsehood,
and its outcry without investigation, against
this people. “But” he said, “we have no
cause for uneasiness, so long as we live our
religion and are not carried away by the
things of the world.” He also said that the
hatred and scorn of the world should be
nothing to the Saints; their delight should
be in the consciousness that God approved
of them, and that when the brief span of life
was over their reward was sure. The blows
aimed at him all fall short of their mark;
they were powerless to cause him a moments
uneasiness; the source of his joy and comfort
was as high above their influence as the sun
[new column]
was above the earth. He had merited the
hatred of the world by being instrumental
in the hands of God in forwarding His great
work; that blessing His people spiritually
and temporally, was to him a joy, a comfort,
a consolation, which the world could neither
give nor takeaway.
	Speaking of the desire to obtain wealth,
he said every one had a perfect right to get
all the wealth he could, honestly; provided
he made proper uses of it afterward. He
acknowledged himself only a steward over
the wealth which God had placed in his
hands, and accountable to Him for the use
of the least portion of it. That no one on
this earth owned anything; but those who
proved faithful and profitable stewards over
what was intrusted to their care, should be
real owners hereafter. He wished all to be
able, as he was, to say that in getting wealth
they had never wronged the widow and
orphan, never defrauded the poor nor the
rich, never over-reached their neighbor in a
bargain, nor in any way stained their souls
to get it. 	
	Referring to his reputed power and in-
fluence over the people, said he was often
tempted to wish he really had it, that he
might cause them to cease their folly, their
envy, backslidings, running after the things
of the world; and to fix their hearts and
eyes on God and the great future which is
surely theirs if they live for it. But he
added that it would not be right for him to
have such power—God himself did not
possess it, having delegated it to His
children in  the form of free-agency, to choose
between good and evil and receive the
appropriate reward for the choice made.
“Brethren and Sisters,” remarked the
speaker, “I am for God and righteousness!
and I would gladly know the sentiments of
your hearts to-night. Let all who are will-
ing and determined to serve the Lord to the
best of their ability, even though His enemies
hate, persecute and even kill them, now do
as I do!” and his right hand pointed heaven-
ward. Instantly hundreds of hands were
uplifted, and breathing was almost sus-
pended in reverential awe. His voice had
not been raised above conversational pitch,
his manner was calm, mild and kindly, as
that of a father conversing with his chil-
dren; but his words were like pure gold, and
seemed to sway the hearts of his hearers as
the summer wind sways the meadow grass.
He broke the silence with “Are you all
for God? Then I am glad; all is well.”
	He then referred to some parts of Brother
Staines’ remarks, advising the young to write
a history in daily deeds of honor, that if so
be, in the future they are called to occupy
high places, they need not blush to have
their early history sought out. Advised
parents to pray and teach their children to
pray; saying that children begotten, nur-
tured and taught in the fear and admonition
of the Lord, would never spurn their early
teaching and love corruption.
	I have seldom listened to so simple, plain,
unassuming, yet impressive a discourse.
And the effect was deepened on my mind
by a remark I overheard from a a stranger
who passed me on my way home, and whom
I took to be an outsider. He was saying to
his companion, “Well, it cannot be denied
that Brigham Young speaks with power,
and has a great influence over his listeners.
Why I felt it myself while he was talking.”
	I longed to answer, “Yes, the power of
good authority for what he says; the in-
fluence of a strong, noble, philanthropic
spirit over all corresponding good in the
minds of his hearers."
	I feel to say, as did that congregation,
God bless our President and spare his life
[new column]
long to bless his people with his loving
care, and to enjoy the golden harvest of the
priceless grain and fruits which he has
labored so faithfully to plant.”
								L. L. D.


