THE SEX.

	GENERAL Schenck’s youngest daughter is
to marry an English nobleman.
	M. M. POMEROY’S first wife offers the La
Crosse Opera House for sale.
	TWO American female physicians, both
from Chicago, are practising in Edinburgh.
	MADAME Hyacinthe is “at home” Satur-
day evenings at her residence in Brussels.
	QUEEN Victoria’s signature is elegantly
formed, with each letter beautifully cut.
	MR. Greeley’s daughters are spending the.
winter in New York, with their aunt, Mrs.
Cleavland.
	MISS Lydia A. Whitney has purchased
one-half of the "Presque Isle (Me.) Sun-
rise."
	THE mother of Rubinstein, the pianist, is
a celebrated music-teacher in Moscow, and
said to be very wealthy.
	MISS Hosmer is said to have sufficient
orders to keep her busy with chisel and
mallet for the next five or six years.
	SALLIE Ada Vance has become editor of
the Lexington, Mississippi “Advertiser.”
Her Salutatory is said to be well written.
	THE Crown Princess of Germany is mak-
ing a design for a monument, to be erected
on the field of Weissenburg by the officers of
he third army.
	A FEMALE pharmaceutist, Miss S. M
Harding, has been appointed Dispenser to
the Hospital for Women, at Birmingham,
England.
	CELIA Burleigh says that one of the most
singular things in woman’s nature is the
naturalness with which they gravitate to-
wards “cussedness” in the opposite sex.
	A KEROSENE lamp exploded at Rush
River, Wisconsin, recently, a piece of the
glass striking a young lady on the throat,
cutting it deeply, and causing speedy death.
	A MAN at Janesville, Minnesota, was re-
cently beaten by his wife. The woman was
arrested and fined fifty dollars for the assault,
which the husband was obliged to pay.
	A MODERN writer says:	“In Germany,
woman has a sad life, she seems to be of a
lower order than man. It is nothing but
work, work, work, for her, while the men
are visiting Beer Gardens.”
	MISS Lena Clark, daughter of a banker in
Newton, Iowa, walked seven miles from
the Junction to Jefferson, when the therm-
ometer marked thirty degrees below zero,
because the train was belated. She holds
the position of cashier in the bank.
	THE Swiss “Times” reports that Mont
Blanc has been successfully ascended by
three English young ladies, named Murray,
aged respectively twenty-one, seventeen and
fourteen. The youngest of the party a girl
of twelve, had to relinquish the attempt.
	MISS Lizzie Duffer, Miss Alice Hagey and
Miss Kate January, at the Murfreesboro,
Tenn., Agricultural Fair contended for pre-
eminence In the high art of cookery, the
prize being a fine cooking stove. Each
young woman came at the appointed time,
provided with provisions of her own selec-
tion, and in turn took charge of the cook
room. Miss January was the winner.
	LASt summer a party of girls were
directed by the driver of a street car in
Boston to get on by the front platform,
although getting on in that way is contrary
to the rules of the company. One of the
girls was thrown under the wheels and
severely injured. She brought suit against
the company and recovered $5,000 damages,
a verdict since confirmed by the Supreme
Court.


