	SAN BERNARDINO, CALA., Feb 26th, 1873.
DEAR EXPONENT:—-
	I have been reading the news concerning
the proposed course to be taken at Washing-
ton in relation to Utah, and also the reasons
given by the twenty-six attorneys of your
city. Not being well posted in politics I
concluded to ask a few questions of the
Colonel, “my better half;” and thinking
you might be amused as I was, I concluded
to give you the “chat” in full.
	Question.—What is the cause of the ex-
citement against Utah at Washington?
	Answer.—Oh! there’s Clagget, and Axtell,
and Washburne, and Merritt, and a host of
others that want offices, or a pull at govern-
ment pap, and they think that the preference
will be given to the one who gets off the
most gas. 
	Q.	Don’t you think they are honest in
the objections they make concerning Utah?
	A. Well, we politicians, about election
times, don’t care anything about a man’s
morals if we can only get his support.
	Q. Don't you think the twenty-six attor-
neys at Salt Lake City had good cause for
taking the course they did?
	A. I Don’t know any of them but Ap-
pleby, and I can’t think he had any just
cause, for signing such an instrument, The
most of the others, I suppose, are floating
adventurers, and you know how it is with
we attorneys. “If business doesn’t come to
us, we go to business.”
	Q. But don’t you think they had some
cause for objecting to woman suffrage? 
	A. I think I could find five women in
Utah that know more of the rights of
parties than the whole of them.
	Q. What is your opinion in regard to the
case of Judge McKean?
	A. I have examined his rulings, and
read them to some of the most able attor-
neys in California, and we were of the
opinion that he should resign or be im-
peached.		
	Q. What course would you have taken,
had you been defending in his court?
	A. It is hard to make points before a
Judge that is prejudiced, but I think I
should have plead in bar President Polks’s
contract, and President Buchanan’s pardon.
	Q. What bargain did President Polk
make?
	A. He contracted with the Mormon
agents that if they furnished a battalion and
assisted to take a portion of Callifornia they
should select a part of the country, and he
would protect them in their peculiar relig-
ion.
	Q. What did he mean by “peculiar?
	A. Polygamy, I suppose.
	Q. What was President Buchanan’s
pardon?	
	A. Forgiveness for all past offences
against the United States.
	Q. Did the Mormons accept the terms?
	A. They did, and the negotiation was be-
tween the Mormons and Ben. McCullough
and Governor Powell, United States Com-
missioners. 
	Q. What course do you think President.
Grant will take in regard to Utah?
	A. I think the President has too much
good common sense to be influenced by
tricksters, or religious fanatics.
	This last question put a stop to the chat,
for the Colonel was a strong supporter of
Grant in the last election.
	With many wishes for your success, I
sign myself your friend,		MINNIE.


