NEED FOR COURAGE AND UNITY.

    To believe, or even to know a thing, no mat-
ter how important, amounts to very little
unless that which is believed can be tested, or
the knowledge existing be put to use. It is
true faith which gives a person courage to
speak or act in defense of right, at the risk of
being considered unpopular; to be honest,
though it bring but poverty and neglect; to be
loyal, though misjudged, misrepresented and
frowned upon; to stand firm and steadfast for
the truth, though all is dark, save where the
thought of God and hope of brighter days shed
one small ray of light—just enough to keep the
soul from sinking utterly. True faith gives
strength and heart to act, even in the face of op-
position; to tell the truth, however harsh it may
seem, if necessary. Though friendships be turned
to gall, though kindred desert and cherished
ones turn away in derision—still, true faith
will have the power to stand, and even walk
into the wilderness, if so directed by the voice
of God.
    When has there ever been a time since the
“Morning Stars sang together,” when to
exercise faith in the true and living God, and 
to manifest that faith by its legitimate repre- 
sentative—earnest work in the behalf of virtue 
and integrity—has not aroused the ire of Satan
and those who do his work?  Yet, when ever 
was the world so full of corruption, so crimsoned
with crime, so fully ripe in iniquity as at the
present time? When ever was unity among
the Saints of God so requisite as now, when all
the powers of the Evil One seem to be arrayed
in arrogance and stubborn, jealous enmity
against the cause of right and justice?
    Mothers should be united in teaching to the
youth who look to them for aid and direction,
the principles of everlasting truth; and the
young should be as one in seeking after that
faith and knowledge and divine revelation,
which will keep them safe from falling into
temptation, and give them the courage to
think and to act in spite of the taunts and
jeers of the vain and wicked.  The Saints
should begin to see that the unity which they
have been long counseled and urged to adopt, is
highly necessary to their safety and their
peace.

