			WOMAN'S VOICE
Editor Exponent:—	
	Dear Sister:—I think it the duty of
mothers, who have been long in the Church,
to write for the instruction of their
daughters to give counsel to the young,
and try to impress them with the love of
chastity and goodness; to teach them not
to follow the vain fashions of the world, but
to seek to be prudent and temperate in all
their ways; not to covet the empty pleasures
and treasures of earth alone, but to secure
to themselves peace and joy everlasting—
the riches of eternity.
	We have examples among the mothers
in Israel worthy of imitation, and which, if
we follow, we shall not be led astray. I feel
that mothers should be awake to their duties
in training their children in the love of
truth and the ways of rectitude; and I pray
that the daughters of Zion may have wisdom
to so direct their offsprings that they may
have power over all evil and overcome the
ways of darkness.
				Sarah Roberts;
	Goshen.

				Springville,
					Feb. 20th, 1873.
	In looking over the Exponent my mind
has been led through many scenes, some of
joy and some of sorrow; and I find it con-
tains sympathy for every heart. It is a
heavenly work, when we can do so, to bind
up the broken heart. If we are rich in
knowledge, and God has blest us with the
light of His Holy Spirit to do good, it is
joy to us to seek out the depressed, the poor,
the widow and orphan and impart to them,
both of our heart’s sunshine and of our sub-
stance. The Gospel we have received
teaches us to be full of charity to mankind,
and let our love for each other flow as a
fountain of living waters. I can truly say
since I have been a member of the Relief
Society, it has been a school of improvement
to me, for which I thank God. True happi-
ness is offered to every faithful son and
daughter. If we live as peace-makers we
are filling our missions, if not, we live below
our calling and will be accountable for our
folly. If mothers will live in the light of
the Gospel they will have influence with
and great blessings for their children.
This the Lord requires at their hands. We
have the same fountain of light and intelli-
gence from which to gain a fullness of
the blessings of life, that has been enjoyed
by the Saints in every age, when God has
had a prophet to reveal His mind and will
to the children of men on earth. With an
experience of 31 years in the Church, I can
testify that the Gospel made known to
brother Joseph Smith, by the Angel that
John saw was to come forth in the last days,
is true; and the powers of darkness can not
stay the progress of the work of our God.
This is something to live for. It keeps the
hopes and affections bright and lends addi-
tional charms to all in nature that is amiable
and lovely. And all who labor in this
glorious cause, have their reward.
				Hannah Harrison.

		Cottonwood, Feb. 28, 1873.
Editor Exponent:—
	I have read your paper with pleasure and
interest; and now, have a desire to mingle
my testimony with those of my sisters who
testify to the sacred truth of the Gospel-
work in which we are engaged. To-day I
know this is the Church of Christ; that
plural marriage, as well as the other prin-
ciples which it contains, was ordained of
God, for the blessing and exaltation of the
Saints. And I believe it to be the duty of
every Latter-day Saint to teach and practice
that truth as well as the rest. And that
every mother should teach her children, as 
well by example as precept, to seek out
and understand for themselves, correct
principles. The Lord has given us a
glorious light, and except we follow it
steadily and prayerfully, we may expect to
be soon left in the dark, and that we will
become more blind than we were ere the
light beamed upon us.
	Daughters of  Zion, let us be mindful.
						Theresa.

		Ogden City, Feb. 3rd, 1873.
Dear Editor:—
	Having been a subscriber to your excel-
lent paper since its commencement, and
seeing the wide scope you have provided
the "Mormon" ladies, for expressing their
sentiments and portraying their position, I
venture to address you a few words. In
the first place, I feel thankful that the time
has come when the women of this Church
can publish their views, and that too, through
a woman's Journal. And I hope they all
feel as I do, that they would not be without
the paper.
	Now, for myself. For fifteen years I lived
in monogamy—bound to a "drunkard," who
used to come home and curse and swear,
and with whom my life was in constant
jeopardy. I cannot tell what I endured,
but I thank my Heavenly Father for my
deliverance, for my happy home in these
valleys, and for my good, faithful husband
in the Kingdom of God, who is a "polygam-
ist," honorable and worthy, and who has
not tasted of any kind of strong drink for
twenty-five years. This I consider, speaks
volumes. I am now living in "polygamy"
of my own free will and choice.
	It is woman's mission to do good—to per-
form, each one her faithful work, which
will bring its own reward. Any woman


can do good every day of her life if she
chooses. To her it is given to create sun-
shine in her home, however lowly it may
be; to comfort those that mourn, and to
bless with cheerful smiles and words of
encouragement all with whom she is associ-
ated.
	I am glad to read of the success of the
Relief Societes in different parts of the Ter-
ritory, and think the EXPONENT a splendid
means of making the sisters in the Societies
acquainted with each other.		
	I will conclude with kind wishes and
earnest prayers for all who engage in the
great work—the Emancipation of Woman
and the establishment of Truth.
							E. McKay.

