EDTIOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
    I feel that I owe you an apology for neg-
lecting to forward our mutual approbation in
regard to dropping the word “Female,” as
it is considered superfluous in connection
with the name of the Society.
    The Society of the 4th Ward (Provo,) is
in a healthy condition, new members being
added at nearly every meeting. It could
not well be otherwise with such a President
as Mrs. Holden, who delights in the order
of the Kingdom of God, often referring to its
beauties and grandeur. And she has the
assistance of a “live Bishop,” whose ex-
ertions are unceasing in looking after and
providing for the poor. I have never known
his individual interests so pressing that he
could not sympathize with the bereaved of
his Ward, and accompany them to the last
resting place of the deceased friends. His
presence at our meetings, his counsel and
instructions, are ever cheering and highly
appreciated. So much for Bishop Wm. A.
Follett. Our much esteemed Treasurer,
Mrs. M. J. Smith, in consequence of ill
health, has not been able to meet with us
this winter, yet she has exerted herself far
beyond her strength for the good of the
Society. A person of less “vim” would
long ago have yielded to another the laborious
position of Treasurer, but with energy like
her’s, there is no shrinking while the vital
spark burns.
    With kind love to yourself and all inter-
ested in the great cause of regeneration,
        I am truly yours,
			L. W. KIMBALL, Secretary,
4th Ward Relief Society, Provo.

    At the Retrenchment meeting in the 8th
Ward, Salt Lake City, held February 12th,
1873, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball said she was
present in the interest of Physiology. If
she had a “hobby,” it was the importance
of having a knowledge of one’sself and the
proper uses of one’s powers. Self knowledge
was the first step toward self improvement.
Science taught that pain was a penalty and
did notbelong to nature. If one was dys-
peptic, there was a cause for it, either
inherited, or through abuse of some of the
powers. Human bodies were not forlorn,
disagreeable objects and should not be
subjected to causes that would make them
such. Every correct lesson learned of self,
made one better acquainted with her fellow
beings. “We give ourselves the wounds we
feel.” Health was productive of happiness,
which was the legitimate pursuit of all
flesh. Ladies’ skirts should not be fastened
with bands but the weight of their clothing
should be suspended from the shoulders.
Tight lacing was a sin against humanity.
The natural shape of the human body was a
little flattened and not round, as it was
forced to appear from the pressure it
received by the way in which many ladies
dressed. The body should never be clothed in
a manner to prevent the breath being drawn
in deeply and freely. The breath was the
life. When weary and feeling depressed,
hardly aware of what the cause might be,
one would often find relief from long, deep
breathing, there being too little oxygen in
the system. Professor Bronson, a learned
physician, while suffering with consumption,
from which, it was believed, he never could
recover, had gained a “thought,” while
watching a dying child, which was the
means of his restoration to health. He saw
that the child’s breath grew shorter and
shorter as death approached it, and saw also
that if the child could only continue to
breath, it could live. He thought, then,
that he would not cease to breath; and
he would go into the open air and draw long,
deep breaths for some time; and that simple
remedy cured him. Professor Fowler had
also told of once being so completely ex-
hausted that he felt it an impossibility for 
him to fulfill an engagement to lecture.
He threw himself upon the bed and began


drawing long, heavy breaths, which he felt,
rested and restored his fatigued body, and
he was soon able to rise and attend to his
business.
	The speaker asked if we could not apply
these and similar lessons to ourselves, and
answered that we could; she had proven it;
that twenty, thirty or even thirty-five years
ago she had seemed older than now, had never
enjoyed better health or been half so happy
in her life before, as at the present time.
	Sister Zina D. Young remarked that no
one had any right to trifle with existence
God had given. A short time ago a young
lady had died suddenly, and after her
death it was ascertained that by lacing, her
ribs had been turned in, so that the front
ends almost met with the back-bone. Good
sense should once more get the upper hand
of pride and vanity, and then woman could
live long and fulfill the measure appointed
unto her with rejoicing. It was well to
always cultivate a happy, cheerful spirit.
If the tears of the daughters of Zion were
to be wiped away, the present was as good a
time as there would ever be to begin it.
	Mrs. Willmarth East said, that to contem-
plate the degeneracy of the human family
was enough to convince any one that it was
necessary to study and learn the laws of life
and health. Dieting was one thing that too
little notice was taken of; and going with
damp feet was one of the worst things a
woman could do to produce desease and
suffering. For the sake of future genera-
tions, mothers should endeavor to preserve
health and longevity that the same might
be implanted in their offspring.
	Miss L. L. Greene was interested in the
subject of Physiology; the laws of nature
were the laws of God; it was impossible to
violate the one without sinning against the
other. In order to reasonably exercise
faith in God—men and women should live
in accordance with the laws of their beings.
The principles of the Gospel were the prin-
ciples of eternal life; a proper knowledge
and use of the faculties, physical and mental,
would make gods and godesses of the
children of men.
	Sister Mary A. Leaver, President of the
8th Ward R. Society, was grateful to the
sisters who had visited the Ward—not to
benefit themseles, but others. Hoped the
daughters of Zion might become one in
gaining useful knowledge and live by the
same.
	Sisters Tufts, Needham, Chamberlain
and Leaver, (daughter-in-law to President
Mrs. Mary A. Leaver,) bore testimony to the
truth, as revealed in the Latter-days, and
asked blessings upon the sisters who were
visiting and instructing them.
	Mrs. Lona Cross Spencer, President of the
Young Ladies’ Retrenchment Association,
thought that the faith of the sisters was
strengthened by their joining their testi-
monies and speaking words of comfort and
encouragement to each other. Brother
Heber C. Kimball used to talk very plainly
to the sisters about their manner of dress.
She thanked sister Kimball and the sisters
who came with her for their good words.
	Sister Kimball said the grateful feeling
was mutual—she and he companions also
returned thanks

			Salt Lake City, 13 Ward,
						January 25th, 1873.
Dear Editor:—
	We intended sending you a report of our
Society long ere this, but sickness and other
unavoidable hindrances have prevented.
Our meetings, as in most instances, have
been attended by the faithful few, though
many who do not meet with us have
donated liberally. Our receipts for dona-
tions since the Society was organized
amounts to $1,597:50. The sick and needy
have been cared for; we have assisted in
building a house for an aged couple, besides
expending means to aid repairs on the As-
sembly Rooms; donated to the P. E. Fund
$161; towards building the Temple $270;
have invested in the 13th Ward and Saving
Bank to the credit of $230 and in the
Treasury, in cash, clothing, etc. $72:50. Our
meetings are held the first Thursday in each
month; the Spirit of the Lord is much
enjoyed by those attending, who realize
that they are times of refreshing and tend
to strengthen and stimulate us to increased
energy and diligence in our duties as Saints
of God, and in the good cause in which we
are engaged. I believe I can say, there is
an increasing interest taken in contributing
to the good of the Society, and that it is in
a flourishing condition; trusting that the
demands and necessities of the poor will
continue to enlist our sympathies and efforts
to do them good, until it can be said “There
are no poor in Zion.” The Woman’s Ex-
ponent is highly appreciated by many of
our members, who pray that it may continue
to increase in interest and circulation.
		ELIZABETH H. Goddard, Secretary.

	Saturday the 15th of February, being a
fine and favorable day, a very fair represen-
tation of the members of the Retrenchment
Association were present at the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms, in this city—their usual
place of meeting.
	After the ordinary preliminaries, Presi-
dent Mrs. Mary I, Horne made excellent
remarks concerning faith, which she testified
was indeed, in the language of the Apostle,
“The substance of things hoped for—the
evidence of things not seen.” If by faith
the sick had been healed, mountains re-
moved, the dead raised to life, and many
other marvelous things accomplished, what
might not the Saints hope for if they but
lived to secure to themselves that faith
which is obtained through obedience to the
requirements of the laws of God? If we
had but faith as a grain of mustard seed, it
had been written, that we might say to
that mountain “remove hence” and it would
be done. The Saints had nothing to fear if
they would live their religion so as to keep
the faith, and also gain continual increase
of the same. But without faith their power
would amount to nought.
	Sister Percinda L. Kimball said, every-
thing that was necessary to be done, could
be done through faith. If the people lived
faithfully and humbly they should not fail
in faith, but their faith be strengthened
constantly. They should exercise faith for
each other and for the Kingdom of God,
and if they could but live worthy of faith,
such as God was able and willing to bestow
upon them, no power would be able to harm
them, but all things would work together
for the good of the Saints.
	Sister Hannah W. Brinton was happy to
see the countenances of her sisters beaming
with intelligence and light, which bespoke
good hearts and pure minds. She believed
it impossible to accomplish any good thing
without faith.
	Sister Eleanor J. Pratt saw that there was
much to weaken the faith of the Saints, yet,
she believed the women present, if united,
could have sufficient faith to avert any evil
that might be aimed against Israel.
	Sister Sarah Groo said that it required
considerable faith to induce her to arise and
address an intelligent congregation like that
before her. She was glad that faith had
been chosen as a subject for consideration
in the meetings; she had been edified and
felt that she understood more concerning
faith than ever before.
	Counselor Mrs. E. Howard gave a very 
interesting account of her early experience
in the Church, and of the peculiar manner
in which the light of truth was first made
manifest to her mind, and showed what
power there was in the prayer of faith.
After which she said that the enemies of
the Saints were preparing to give them 
another lift up the hill; as they were—
many of them—too careless and indolent,
about the things of their religion, to keep in
the right path, except they were urged on
occasionally.
	Other remarks were made, and there ap-
peared to be a general impression that the
subject of faith had been introduced into
the meetings at the right moment, that its
exercise, with earnest prayer in behalf of
the Church, was highly requisite.	
	The same subject was to be continued at
the next meeting.


