THE	SEX.

	THE Vienna Exposition will have a special
department for “Woman’s Work.”
	ALICE Wellington, Boston’s coming poet-
ess, is a teacher in the Girl’s High School.
	MISS Sarah W. Barton, an American girl,
is to be the prima donna in Warsaw, next
season. 
	A WOMAN in Birmingham, England, was
lately fined $200 for giving a good character
to a bad servant.
	AND now, rumor says, it was lung fever
instead of small-pox, with which Miss
Dodge, (Gail Hamilton,) has been afflicted.
	THE dowager Empress, of Brazil, died in
Lisbon, a few days since, aged 61. She was
married to the Emperor Pedro I., in 1829.
	CARLOTTI Patti was on a train in Georgia
when a severe accident occurred, and was
very active in attending to the wants of the
sufferers.
	A FEW admirers of the brilliant talents pos-
sessed by Mme. Clara Schumann, have pur-
chased an annuity for that lady of a thousand
thalers.
	A SAN Francisco editor thinks Oregon and
Washington must be good places for women
to live in if they have time there to attend
to “Mass Conventions.”
	THE eldest of General Schenck's daughters,
who are so pretty, well-educated, and taste-
ful, is about to be married to the son of
a member of Parliament.
	MADAME de Schweinitz, wife of the Ger-
man Ambassador, and daughter of Minister
Jay, was lately received by the Emperor of
Austria, at Vienna. 
	MRS. Mayor of Jurupa, lately saved her
child from drowning by decending a well by 
bucket and rope; She sustained herself and
child until assistance arrived.
	A HUSBAND in Rome, N.Y., lately sued
his wife for $30 he entrusted to her before
marriage. Nothing like it was recorded in
the law books, and the jury, with chivalric
promptness, decided In favor of the wife.
	MISS Hosmer’s monument to Miss Fal- 
coner, a young English lady who died in 
Rome, has been placed in the Church of St.
Andrea delle Fratte, in that city, and is the
only sculpture by an American artist to be
found in any of the Italian churches.
	A YOUNG sharper says, that “a school-
ma’am who has never been in love hasn’t a
bit of mercy; but take one that’s got some-
body to look for, and she’s the best in the
world. She always keeps a smile and a
pleasant word on hand, for fear of a
surprise.”
	A WOMAN fell into a well in a Western
town the other day, and an editor, in com-
menting upon it, remarked that he never
heard of a commotion in his life that hadn’t
a woman at the bottom of it. It is supposed
that the poor fellow had been married once
or twice and spoke from the card.
	THE fashions of the Japanese women are
thus spoken of by Mr. Lanmann: “The
hair of the women is gathered in bunches,
and tied with beautifully dyed crapes,
and secured by a long four-cornered tortoise-
shell pin. The dresses are made very long.
The sleeves are flowing, and only sewed
about half way up, thus forming a pocket.
A species of sash, four inches wide and four
feet long, is worn around the waist. The
women always wear white socks, in which
the big toe is separated from the rest, to
admit of a thong by which the shoes are
tied to the feet. They have ‘rainy weather’
shoes and ‘fair weather' shoes, which are
made of wood and of straw.”


