EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MAINE PROPOSES to give women the
ballot; progressive Maine!
	"DON'T TOUCH me; hit him;” is the way
Idaho talks of legislation for the Territories,
pointing to Utah.
	“THE HILL to be-devil the Mormons” is
how a leading Eastern paper talks of the
Frelinghuysen bill.
	THE WINTER just closing has been in
several parts of the country the severest
known for many years.
	INDIANA is gratified over the fact that it
has as many marriages as divorses. It could
scarcely divorce couples until they were
united.
	THE WORLD moves, annually, diurnally,
religiously, socially and politically, besides
the downward movement now painfully
conspicuous.
	WERE PIETY and patriotism as highly
prized and eagerly sought after as pelf,
what a happy, blessed country these United
States would be!
	THE SPANISH republic is threatened by
the Carlists, Bourbonists, Federalists, and
general disruption. The prospect is not
very encouraging.
	A PREMIUM of one hundred dollars was
offered for the prettiest baby at an Iowa
fair. A “nigger baby” won the prize. So
the world moves
	THE PRESENT session of Congress and the
present Congress—expires on the 4th inst.
at noon. It will be known in history as the
very discreditable Credit Mobilier session.
	INSTEAD OF a bitter bill by Congress
against Utah this session—which expires on
the 4th at noon—there is talk of a Commis-
sion to come to Utah and investigate
matters here.
	CALIFORNIA HAS an incorporated State
Woman’s Hospital, the trustees being com-
posed conjointly of prominent men and
women of San Francisco.	It was incorpor-
ated on the 18th ult.
	THE WOMAN suffragists of Oregon form
a State Society which is to meet once a
year. They will not be likely to meet
many times ere they meet the desired end
for which the society is organized.
	THE PROPOSAL of a commission to inves-
tigate matters in Utah meets with favor
from all quarters, except where there exists
a desire to push a crusade against the “Mor-
mons,” regardless of law, right or justice.
	A WISCONSIN singing master recently
flogged a young lady pupil, seventeen years
of age, breaking a wooden ruler on her per-
son. He is under arrest, and should have
the full benefit of the law in such cases made
and provided.
	THE ERA of fires in the United States is
not over, and now it is said the Interna-
tionalists, with branch societies in different
parts of the country, are threatening to burn
the leading cities. The scenes enacted in
Paris by the Internationalist Commune,
are not yet forgotten.
	NEW YORK imprisons George Francis
Train for publishing a paper containing
extracts and sentiments more pointed than
fashionable, calling it obscene literature; and 
allows the vilest illustrated papers to be
circulated freely, while its haunts of vice
are admittedly sustained by many of its
leading men and officials. Virtuous New
York!
 	FROM THE rapid spread of Spiritualism
and infidelity in the United States, it is a
question what fractional part of the commu-
nity nominal Christians form, and whether
a half of the clergymen have any belief in
what they preach.
	AFTER A few newspaper correspondents
had startled the country from its propriety
by the announcement that ten thousand
troops were to be sent to Utah, it was stated
on authority from official sources that there
was no truth in the report. A tithe of the
falsehoods published in a year concerning
this Territory, would make a large-sized
volume.
	THE WOMAN'S Suffrage Association, of
New York, at a meeting about two weeks
ago, adopted a resolution and protest, entreat-
ing the House of Representatives of Congress,
to defeat the bill offered by Merritt, dele-
gate from Idaho, which included the disfran-
chisement of the women of Utah. And for
this the members of the New York Woman’s
Suffrage Association have the warmest
thanks of the women of Utah.
	MRS. DUNIWAY wishes the charming
actress, Mrs. G. B. Waldron, “would flourish
her own feminine name, instead of the mas-
culine one of her husband.” Why? We
think it an honor to the lady to evince that
respect for her husband which she does in
wearing his name with dignity. And it is
certainly a credit to the profession they
follow, that there truly exists between the
gentleman and his wife an affinity of feeling,
said to be rarely met with among people of
their profession.
	DURING THE last presidential election,
Henry Wilson, the successful candidate for
Vice-President, authorized a telegraphic
dispatch to the New York “Times,” denying
that he owned any Credit Mobilier stock.
He admits that he did authorize the dis-
patch, and says he did not own the stock, as
he gave it to his wife. Our next Vice-
President for the four years commencing
March 4th, is a thoughtful man and a model
husband. Congressman Brooks turned over
his Credit Mobilier stock to his son-in-law,
but Mr. Wilson's plan of getting rid of it was
much better, for it kept it still closer in the
family.
	ONE OF the most quiet and important
revolutions of the century was that by
which Spain ceased to be a monarchy
and became a republic. The young King
Amadeus, with rare wisdom in so young a
monarch, seeing that his occupancy of the
throne was the cause of internal dissensions
in his kingdom, resolved to abdicate and
did so. The Cortes, or national congress,
after receiving the formal decree of abdica-
tion passed a vote establishing a republic
and immediately a provisional government
was formed. So far the new republic has
conducted itself with dignity, and with the
adhesion of the masses may become in a
short time more firmly rooted than is the
present French government, that seems
dependent on the will of Thiers for its
existence.
	THE NEWSPAPERS continue full of sensa-
tions concerning Utah; and one hardly
wonders that people traveling between the
East and West should feel a little tremor
when they approach Salt Lake City, as the
“news” widely circulated will lead honest
people who are not accustomed to have
wholesale fabrications palmed upon them
for truth, to imagine that there was a dread-
ful state of society here. And yet, with the
exception of a lawlessly disposed class that
has recently come to this city, especially
since a “vigilance committee” compelled
some of them to flee from Pioche, the city is
one of the most quiet on the continent. But
by and by summer will be here, travel will
increase across the continent, and as it was a
couple of years ago, when people were half
frightened to come here and were astonished
at the magnitude of the published false-
hoods when they arrived, so it will be
again.
	PARSON NEWMAN, chaplain of the U. S.
Senate, has again let his “piety” run loose
in stirring up a crusade against Utah. His
eloquence having failed to force poor argu-
ments on sensible and better-informed 
people, he seems determined, if possible, to
make them feel that there is a strong arm
of power which can be invoked in his favor.
Failing In logic and debate he would try
bayonet and rifled cannon. Frederick the
Great, of Prussia, was wont to enforce his
arguments, it is said, by heavy kicks on
the shins of those who discussed with him.
One day he remaked to an officer: “You
cannot stand up before my arguments.”
“How can I” was the response, “while you
wear such heavy boots?” Parson Newman
wishes his arguments sustained by the
machinery of perverted courts, infantry 
regiments, cavalry cohorts, and artillery
batteries. He desires the people of Utah
to understand that the sword is at hand to
force his syllogisms down the throats of the
Latter-day Saints. And he is a clergyman,
too! 
	SUPPOSE A crusade should be urged
against the Roman Catholics in this country,
because they believe in the infallibility of
the Pope and the invocation of Saints; or
against the Second Adventists because they
believe the Lord Jesus Christ will speedily
come and rule over the earth; or against the
Methodists for imagining that the simple
action of the mind in believing will secure
their salvation; or against the Presbyterians
for holding that a portion of the human
family are born to be saved and cannot be
damned, while another portion are born to
suffer eternal tortures and cannot secure
salvation, and what a howl would resound
throughout the entire country! Yet this is
precisely what is being urged against the
Latter-day Saints because they believe in
Prophets and present revelation; for the cry
against polygamy, it is admitted, is merely
raised for effect,the immorality of the age
caring but little in regard to morality, and
perfectly satisfled that the people of Utah
are the most moral of any community on
the continent. The onslaught against the
“Mormons” is merely an attack on religious
liberty, stirred up by a few who either do
not comprehend what they are doing or are
entirely reckless as to its results, if they can
only accomplish their purposes.


