				PROVO CITY, Feb. 22, 1873.
MY DEAR MISS GREENE:—
	I forward to you a letter which . I have
received from our beloved and highly
esteemed sister E. R. Snow, thinking it of
enough interset to grace the columns of
the EXPONENT. If you think proper, there-
fore, you are at liberty to publish all, or a
portion of it. as your judgement may direct.
I believe everything that appears in your
paper from that noble lady, gives satisfaction
to your patrons. With kind love to your-
self, and all the dear sisters in your city,
and best wishes for the EXPONENT, which
I sincerely hope may continue to increase in
worth and interest until it shall be second to
no publication in Woman’s Editorial depart-
ment—praying God to bless and endow you
with wisdom and light from on high, I am,
your sister in the bonds of truth and love,
					MARGARET T. SMOOT.
						ROME, ITALY,
						  January 18, 1872.
MY DEAR SISTER M. T. SMOOT:—
	You in Provo, and I in Rome! Who
would have anticipated this wide separa-
tion? Yesterday, Mr. Wood, Mr. Cook’s 
agent, with whom arrangements were pre-
viously made, to show us the most
important points here, conducted us to some
portions of the ancient ruins of this ancient
city. We were shown the remains of the
temple of Venus, Jupiter, etc., the ancient
Forum, the Rostrum so famous for speechi-
fying—portions of gigantic columns in a
reclining position, several standing in their
original places and in a good state of pre-
servation, considering their great age. We
were informed that the late Popes have
exercised their influence in preserving these
ruins which are now attracting the attention
of great numbers of people from other parts,
particularly from England and America.
	At the expense of the government, many
hands are now employed in excavating a
portion of the great Forum of the ancient
Emperors, the Caesars, etc., which by
gradual changes and usages, having been at
times occupied by shepherds, has been buried
to the depth of several feet by accumulations
of “debris.” There is a paling around the
ruins, and no one is allowed to enter with-
out permission. As we stood on a portion
that has been unburied, we saw the stalwart
guard-officer hurry a man off from the
premises, who, do doubt, had stealthily
intruded. We were all right, for our guide,
an Englishman, seems to be of considerable
consequence; he is agent and sub-Editor of
the “Swiss Times,” a lecturer, etc. When
he conducted us to the “Holy Stair Case,”
said to be the identical one that the Savior
ascended in the Court of Pilate; I asked him
if he would swear to it. He said emphatically,
“I will not swear to anything.” But directly
afterward, he said I will swear to the acque-
duct, and I will swear that the stairs
were brought from Jerusalem, and I will
swear to the “Arch of Titus,” which was
before us. We saw a man and woman
slowly ascending the stairs which no one is
allowed to ascend except on their knees;
our incredulity prompted us to accept the
suggestion of our guide and ascend by a side
flight which was considered less sacred; we
found a representation of Christ on the cross
in front of the “Sacred Stairs.” We visited
the celebrated Colliseum, which must have
been a most magnificent structure in earlier
days, being capable of seating eighty-seven
thousand, with standing room for twenty
thousand more.
	It was St. Anthony’s day, and we wit- 
nessed the ceremony of blessing animals,
which was the most amusing of all. On
that day the priest blesses horses, mules, 
donkeys and all kinds of animals. A fine
span of horses, richly caparisoned, were
driven in front of the church—the priest,
with several attendants, came out, dressed 
in black gowns with white tunics. Stand-
ing in front of the horses, with grave pom-
posity, he read a service in Latin, which,
probably the animals understood as well as
himself; after which he took a long handled 
swab from a kettle, in the hand of a boy
standing by his side, and flirted water
(probably “holy,”) In the direction of the
horses’ faces, but not far enough to reach
them; and then, after pocketing his fee, the
priest returned into the church. The coach-
man, a young man, could hardly hold his
countenance, looking as if he were witness-
ing a farce, and felt that the spectators all
sympathized with him.
						MONDAY, 20th.
	Yesterday afternoon Mr. Wood took us


through, around and under many of the
ruins of the palaces of the Emperors—
portions of the walls built by early Romans.
Many, of the specimens show vestiges of
beauty and magnificence. In several in-
stances, trees have grown in crevices ,of
ponderous edifices, which were constructed
of rock, brick and cement, their growth
having made large openings, forcing the
structures apart and thus producing dilapi-
dation. I will enclose you a leaf which I
plucked from a shrub growing on the remains
of the ruins of Caligula. In exhuming these
ruins, inscriptions are found which identify
many of them.	
	Last night brother Carrington joined us,
and brought what of our mail had arrived
in Liverpool. 	*	*	*	We are all
in good spirits; my health was never better,
although “sight-seeing” is not the easiest
work in the world. Clara and I get along
just as well as two persons could do, and I
feel no lack of companionship. *	*		
	I get but little time to write, have done
this by “piece-meal.” With much love, I
am as ever
						Eliza R. Snow.


