		MORAL TEMPERANCE.

	What is temperance? It is a question
often asked and answered by each person
according to his individual views. And 
there is a mental as well as a physical 
side to the question.
	Abstaining from intoxicating liquors, is 
one kind of temperance, but is not broad
enough to comprise the whole. There is
also a temperance in diet, a temperance in
labor, a temperance in speech, and a temper-
ance in thought. But there is one word
which will comprise its full meaning, and
that is—moderation.
	Moderation is the true law of life. "When
this just boundary is passed, then the action
or attribute degenerates into unworthiness;
as a lean traveling to a fixed point of the
compass, may pass the boundary of distance
and lessen instead of increasing the space
between himself and his starting point.
	Thus, “Eat but little” is a wise precept;
and, followed with due moderation, will 
give its disciple health, strong nerves, a clear
intellect and a cheerful, happy temper; and,
used thus is true temperance. But it is 
plain to any child, that carried to excess, it 
will weaken the parts even unto death. 
	Speech is a physical power, and how often
are we exhorted to use it temperately.
The person who uses mild, temperate 
language, is far more readily believed than 
one who raves.
	And in the exercise of the mind, if we are 
moderate, we are temperate. The pursuit 
of knowledge is most noble and praise- 
worthy; it develops our mental powers to
great strength and activity; but over-exert
them, and reason is hurled from her throne,
or the golden thread of life is snapped asunder.
	So it is with the moral nature. Cultivate 
any of the emotions prudently, and they
will be as hands and feet to us, or even as 
wings to bear us to realms of happiness; but
press them too warmly, or pursue them too 
eagerly and they wither in our grasp or 
elude us entirely, leaving behind miserable
caricatures to mock us.
	Thus, humility is a heavenly grace in
man or woman, but beyond a certain degree,
its abject and contemptible.
	Pride, that pride which disdains to stoop


to anything low and mean, is a most en-
obling virtue; but follow it beyond the verge
of moderation, and it degenerates into
haughtiness and even vanity.
	Love, that heavenly radiance which glori-
fies the meanest surroundings, lifts the
weakest of mortals to a level with the
angels, nerves the most timid to do and dare
where the bravest might shrink, and, like
the "little leaven which leavens the whole,”
purifies and sanctifies hearts which nothing
else could reclaim, is a name sorely misap-
plied. Alas, that it should be so! but many,
by giving unrestrained liberty to all the
emotions which it awakens in their peculiar
natures, and pursuing the object with head-
long speed, miss it altogether and grasp,
instead—passion; that adder to sting the
heart that warms it.
	Hate when kept within due bounds and
directed against sin, but not sinners, may be
a faithful pilot to warn us of moral rocks and
shoals; but once give it command of the
bark of life, and prejudice, obstinacy and
revenge are soon placed in high positions,
and the wages they award are misery and
ruin.
	We are even told that "Fobearance ceases
to be a virtue” at times.
	And ambition, when directed in proper
channels and pointed to a noble aim, sustains
the human heart through many and bitter
reverses, strengthens hope and patience,
rouses the latent energies of the soul and
nerves it to brave battle with difficulty; but
it must be subjected to the rules of temper-
ance or it will degenerate into a base greed
of power or notoriety, and, like a consuming
flame, devour every gentle impulse, kind-
ness, mercy, love and even justice; grasping
all advantages without remorse or shame.
	Without the aid of temperance, the soft
and gentle attributes of the soul would lead
us to driveling imbecility; and the strong,
aspiring sentiments to recklessness, ruin,
torment.
	How urgent, then, the necessity for culti-
vating temperance in all things, physical,
mental and moral; that just discrimina-
tion between right and wrong, which shall
lead us onward and upward, temperately,
moderately, steadily, until we conquer all
weaknesses of the flesh and mortality and
so win the fadeless crown of immortality
which is—pefection.
							L. L. D.


