			THE YEAR 1872.

	The Year is stepping out regardless of
My long, long distance from my Mountain Home.
It leaves me in Italia's “sunny clime,"
Where verdant foliage, gentle breezes kiss,
And balmy zephers fan the evening tide.

	The year now passing out, has, in its course
In lib’ral portions, meted out to me
The wide extremes of deep bereavement, and
Munificence in richly flowing streams,
Which I acknowledge freely ere we part.

	All grateful reminiscences, the old,
Expiring Year inscribes indelibly
On mem’ry's sacred tablet, richly wreath’d
With choice mementos of the good produced—
Of vict’ries truth and justice have achieved—
Improvement’s progress in the march of mind,
And every aid to poor humanity;
While its successor treads upon its heels

	Good bye old Year. We both are moving on:
You, to the cloister of the mighty past,
To join it to the future yet unborn,
I, to the farfamed land of Palestine,
Which has a hist’ry of the past, that bears
With a momentous and eternal weight,
Of destiny to all of human kind,
Upon the future which the passing years
With hurried tread ere long will introduce
With bold, magnificent developments.

	I go to place my feet upon the land
Where once, the Prince of Peace, the Son of God
Was born—where once he lived and walk’d and
	preach’d,
And prayed, admonished, taught, rebuked and blest;
And then, to answer justice’ great demand,
And seal his mission of Eternal Love,
Upon the cross poured out his precious blood —
Arose to life triumphant o’er the tomb;
And after being seen and heard and felt,
Ascended up to heaven; and as he went,
These who stood looking, heard an angel say,
"Ye men of Gallilee, why stand ye here
Gazing to heaven? The selfsame Jesus, whom
Ye see ascending, in like manner will
Again descend.’'

				Each year that passes on,
Clips from the thread of time, a portion of
Its intervening length, and hurries up
The coming great and grand fulfilment of
That strange prediction—strange and strangely true.

That most moment’ous period for the great
Event, is fast approximating, and
The moving of the waters now, amidst
The nations of the earth, like deepes; shades
Of pencil drawings, seem foreshadowing
The world’s great crisis.

						Human policy
Grows tremulous; while human governments,
With tender care are fondly fostering,
And feeding with their life’s best nourishment,
The seeds of their own dissolution.

								France
Is poising on a pivot. England rests
On her broad pedestal, but resting moves
With vaulting tendencies. The tamed
Italia stands in leaning posture from
The Papal Chair to King Emmanuel;
While Russia, beckoning to Austria,
To Germany, or whosoever will;
Solicits help to lift the balance
Of Power, now lying just beyond her reach.

The wires of destiny are working on,
To consummate eternal purposes,
And bring results of change, that must precede
“The Second coming of the Son of Man;"
When, unto Him, “whose right it is to reign,"
All human pow’rs and governments will bow.
								Eliza R. Snow.
Milan, Italy, Dec , 31, 1872.


