DIVERSIONS.

	A RISING man—A lamplighter.
	SHOCKING—A magnetic battery.
	HOW to serve a good dinner—eat it.
	A “YOUNG SHAVER.”—A barber’s boy.
	A TRUISM.—An expensive wife makes a
pensive husband.
	BOYS are like vinegar: the more “mother”
there is in them, the sharper they become.
	THERE are some things it won’t do to
trifle with—for instance, a woman’s opinion
and the business end of a wasp.
	WHAT is the difference between a mur-
derous attack and pig killing? One is
assault with intent to kill, and the other is a
kill with intent to salt.
	SOMEBODY inquiring at the Springville, Ill.
post-office for a letter for Mike Howe, re-
ceived the gruff answer that there was no
letter there for anybody’s cow.
	AN exchange tantalizes its readers with
this atrocity: “Have you heard of the man
who got shot?” “Got shot? No; how did
he get shot?” He bought them.
	A YOUNG lady who was rebuked by her
mother for kissing her intended, justified
the act by quoting the passage: “'Whatso-
ever you would that men should do unto
you, do you even so unto them.”
	A LITTLE four-year old sat alone in the
parlor, when a new doctor came suddenly
to see his sick mother. The doctor naturally
wished to make his acquaintance, and
asked, “How old are you, my son?” “I’m
not old—I’m new,” said the boy.
	THE man who sat up all night weighing
a ton of coal with a pair of steelyards, and
by the pailful, to see that he had received
full weight, thought he was a-head a few
pounds until he remembered that he had
not deducted the weight of the pail.
	A LARGE room in the accountant’s office
at the East India House was divided into
boxes or compartments, in each of which
six clerks were accustomed to sit, of whom
Lamb once was one. They were called
“Compounds,” and, the meaning of the
word being asked one day, Lamb explained
it as a “collection of simples.”
	“WHAT are you bellowing about?” cried
an irate mother at the foot of the stairs one
evening, after her two boys had been put
to bed. “Please, mother,” said bellowing
Bill, “Jim wants half the bed.” “Well,”
said she, “let him have half the bed and
you take the other half.” “Yes, mother,”
said Bill, “but he wants his half out of the
middle, and make me sleep on both sides of
him.”
	THE day before Washington’s birthday,
in February last, a lady teacher, in giving
notice of the coming holiday to her pupils,
said something about the good Washington,
and then asked the question:
	“Why should we celebrate Washington’s
birthday more than “mine?”
	“Because he never told a lie! shouted a
little boy.
	This was rather hard on the teacher, but
the boy did not see it.


JUDGE POLAND'S Congressional Credit
Mobilier investigating committee, in its
report, laments the painful conflict of testi-
mony—which is a mild way of saying
perjury among prominent politicians. No 
wonder people are asked to admire the
lofty character of the modern gentleman 
who makes law a profession and polices a
trade.


