[Column 1]
at Rose Hill, Coventry. During the years
of her girlhood they constituted her
world. Mrs. Cash says, “As we closed
the Bray’s garden doors together, I re-
marked, we seemed to be entering Para-
dise. Marian Evans said, ‘I do indeed
feel that I shut the world out when I shut
that door.’”
	One of my last visits on leaving Eng-
land was a farewell one to Mrs. John
Cash, who lived in the same “Rosehill”
that had formerly been the Bray’s Para-
dise. “The inevitable regret,” writes
George Eliot to Mrs. Cash, “of their
moving is softened as much as possible
by the fact that the house has become
yours,” They moved only to a long
stone’s throw, so the intercourse was un-
interrupted, excepting that it was now
without the phenomenally attractive Ma-
rian Evans.
	I remember being shown “Foleshill,”
where she had lived with her suffering
father—the window over the porch where
she did her studying—and the shady spot
on the Rosehill lawn where the philo-
sophical discussions went on with so
much animation, and not without tender-
ness.
	Sara Hennell was the great philosopher
among the young ladies. I remember
years afterwards the great Charles Darwin
saying to me, “Do you know that Miss Hen-
nell has been spinning philosophy out of
my scientific facts? She has sent me her
new book about it, but for the life of me
I can’t make out head nor tail out of it.”
	I laughed, adding, “We must not tell
Miss Hennell that when we see her next.”
She sometimes came to stay with another
neighbor of ours, near the little village of
Downe, in Kent, Miss Bonham-Carter,
who had been a pupil of Miss Hennell’s
at one time.
	Her sister, Mrs. Bray, I recollect as
having one of the most angelic looking
faces I have ever seen. Beautifully fair,
and sweet, with soft, light auburn curls.
She was just as clever in her way as her
sister Sara, only it took a more practical
form, and her books could be understood
by anybody. In 1863, years before the
thought occurred to anyone else, Mrs.
Bray published “Physiology for Common
Schools,” of which book George Eliot
says: “I thank you, dear Cara, not simply
for giving me the book, but for having
put so much faithful labor in a worthy
direction, and created a lasting benefit
which I can share with others.” Later
she was the pioneer in another school
topic, which is now—thirty years later—
beginning to take its proper place in the
moral education of our children, that of
fostering the spirit of kindness to animals.
At the time I saw Mr. Charles Bray he
had been bitten by the love of Phrenol-
ogy, and talked very interestingly on it.
He is well known by his work, “The
Philosophy of Necessity,” ect.
	Mr. Bray had been a ribbon manufac-
turer of Coventry. He lost his money at
the time of the so-called ribbon famine in
Coventry. It was at this juncture that
the old mother of the Cash’s gave them
her inspiration, that the costly machinery
could make cotton instead of silk ribbon,
to be “fulled up” for frilling. So long ago
as this, woman’s brain was capable of in-
ventiveness! At the time of the “ribbon
famine” my friend, Mrs. Cash, worked
herself into an illness striving to help the
starving operatives. The result of this

