EDITORIAL NOTES.

The Daughters of the Revolution State
Society held the November meeting on
the 16th inst. at the home of the Chap-
lain, Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie. The
meeting was a sort of Thanksgiving festi-
val and was very enjoyable. Stars and 
Stripes, banners and bunting, with autumn
leaves and chrysanthemums were deftly
arranged and the long table laid with
snowy linen, dainty china, handsome old
silver and cut glass, and the most appetiz-
ing display of old-fashioned doughnuts
and pumpkin pies, turkey, sweet potatoes
and hot rolls, and a large pumpkin bas-
ket in the centre filled with choice fruits.
The ladies assembled did ample justice to 
the feast. The topics of the day were
given at the table, Patrick Henry by Mrs.
E. B. Wells, discussion on the subject
followed in which Mrs. John D. Spencer
furnished supplementary facts of great
interest. Major-General Heath by the
hostess was the other topic of the day,
but in looking backward in years to come
the Thanksgiving conversation and the
dear ones present will be the memory
that will linger, when the topics are for-
gotten.


A few old friends, mostly those of her
girlhood were present by invitation at the
home of Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson on
the 28th of October. It was the anniver-
versary of the day of her marriage fifty
years, half a century; the hostess wore
her "wedding gown." a lovely soft helio-
trope silk; the rooms were fragrant with
the perfume of roses and other flowers,
and the congratulations of her friends
were as sweet and wholesome as the
beautiful roses and even more lasting, for
these will be remembered when the last
rose is faded and gone. It goes without
saying that the delicacies prepared by
this most hospitable hostess for the delec-
tation of her guests were of the choicest
and best, and so was the goodly company
there assembled. After partaking of the
refreshments, reminiscences of the past
were indulged in and the absent ones ten-
derly alluded to with fond hopes of meet-
ing them nevermore to be separated.
	Such occasions awaken the tenderest
emotions and make life sweeter and bet-
ter for the days that are commonplace,
thanks to the gracious hostess whoever
she may be, who adds one link more to
the golden chain of heart to heart friend-
ships.


