GOVERNERS ON WOMAN SUFFRAGE.
	A letter was lately sent from the Na-
tional Suffrage Headquarters to the Gov-
ernor of each State and Territory, asking
how he stood on woman suffrage. An-
swers were received from 35. Three
frankly expressed themselves as opposed,
six were too busy to give a detailed opin-
ion, and several were non-committal.
	Among those expressing themselves in
favor were Gov. W. L. Douglas of Massa-
chusetts, who wrote: "I am on record as
a member of the Legislature of 1883, 1884,
and 1886 as favoring the suffrage for wo-
men."
	Gov. Robert M. La Follette of Wiscon-
sin wrote: "In reply to your question as
to whether I believe in the principle of
woman suffrage, I reply in the affirma-
tive."
	Gov. George C. Pardee of California
wrote: "I see no reason why women—
simply because they are women—should
not have the privilege of the suffrage."
	Gov. John H. Johnson of Minnesota
wrote: "I am a thorough believer in
woman suffrage."
	Gov. John H. Mickey of Nebraska:
"When I was in the Nebraska Legislature,
twenty-four years ago, I voted "aye" on
the submission of a suffrage amendment
to the voters of Nebraska. I have never
had occasion since to change my views."
	Gov. W. C. Blanchard of Louisiana:
"When the intelligent women of Louisi-
ana, or a majority of them, make a de-
mand for woman suffrage, men holding
the opinions I do would not resist the de-
mand for it."
	Gov. George E. Chamberlain of Oregon:
"I hope that this State will give women
the ballot, and I hope that every State
will do it."
	Gov. Hoch of Kansas: "Municipal suf-
frage in Kansas has worked no ill to wo-
manhood or to the State, and it seems to
be satisfactory to the people. Let the man
who thinks his mother, wife, sister or
sweetheart cannot contribute as much vir-
tue and intelligence to government as he
can, vote to disfranchise them. I think
better than that of the women who are
near and dear to me, and of women in
general—hence I vote the other way.
	"Again, taxation without representa-
tion is wrong in theory and practice, and
opposed to the genius of our government.
	Gov. F. R. Gooding of Idaho: "I am
very strongly in favor of woman suffrage,
and regret that I have not time to tell you
all the benefit it has been to Idaho poli-
tics."
	Gov. John C. Cutler of Utah: "I have
been for a long time, and still am, con-
vinced that it is both right and desirable
for women to have the privilege of the
suffrage. Utah has been an equal suffrage
State ever since Statehood was granted,
and my observation has led me to believe
that the results of giving the franchise to
the women have been beneficial."
	Gov. Jesse F. McDonald of Colorado:
"I am a firm believer in the principle of
woman suffrage."
	Governor Brooks, of Wyoming: "Wy-
oming holds the distinction of being the
original Territory and State to grant equal
rights to women, and we have never had
reason to regret our action in that matter,
as woman suffrage here has been uniform-
ly successful and materially helped in
placing our politics on a higher plane."


