[Column 1]
Presidency presided over the Church, and
if they needed his instruction they could
ask and he would be pleased to give it
from time to time. Let the Presidency
serve as a constitution and their deci-
sions become precedents for you to act
upon.
	If officers are wanted to carry out the
designs of the institutions, let them be
appointed and set apart, as Teacher,
Deacons, etc., are among us.
	Elizabeth A. Whitney moved, and
Sophia Packard seconded the motion that
Emma Smith be elected President of the
society, the vote was put by the chairman
and pronounced unanimous. The Presi-
dent Elect made choice of Sarah M.
Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as
her counselors.
	Eliza R. Snow was appointed Secretary
and Phebe M. Wheeler assistant Secre-
tary and Elvira A. Coules, Treasurer.
	President Joseph Smith read the Reve-
lation to Emma Smith from the Doctrine
and Covenants, and stated that she was
ordained at the time the Revelation was
given, to expound the Scriptures, to
teach, etc.
	He then read the Scriptures to show
that an elect lady is one elected to pre-
side. By request of President Joseph
Smith, Apostle John Taylor ordained
Sarah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, to be counselors to and assist
President Emma Smith in the duties of
her office, and share in the blessings per-
taining thereto.
	He then confirmed on Emma Smith her
former ordination and blessed her to be a
mother in Israel, a pattern of virtue and
to possess all the qualifications necessary
to enable her to preside with dignity and
give such instruction, as may be requisite
in her calling as an Elect Lady.
	Elder Taylor vacated the chair and
President Emma Smith and counselors
took the stand.
	A lengthy discussion followed on the
question, "What shall this Society be
called?" Mrs. Cleveland and Whitney
advocated the appropriateness of the
name Relief Society. John Taylor and
Joseph Smith spoke in favor of the word
Benevolent, Emma Smith and E. R.
Snow argued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland's
choice. The gentlemen withdrew their
objection and a motion to adopt the
name Relief Society was unanimously
carried.
	Pres. Joseph Smith then said, "I now de-
clare this Society organized with presi-
dent and counselors. And who shall
hereafter be admitted must be free from
censure and admitted by vote. President
dent Joseph Smith laid down a five dollar
gold piece to commence a Relief Society
fund and said, "What I do hereafter for
charity, I shall do through this society,"
Sarah M. Cleveland gave 12 ½ cts. Sarah
M. Kimball, $1.00, Emma Smith, $1.00,
Elizabeth Ann Whitney, 50cts., Willard
Richards, $1 00, John Taylor, $2.00.
	At the 3rd meeting of the Society,
March 30th, President Joseph Smith said,
the members of the society must act in
concert, or nothing can be accomplished.
To move according to the ancient Priest-
hood, this must be a select society, sep-
arate from the evils of the world.
	Sixth meeting, April 28th. President
Joseph Smith said he was present to
speak upon the Priesthood, and his in-
structions were intended only for mem-

