IN MEMORIAM.
MARY WARREN.
"Like weary and worn out children, that sigh for
	the daylight's close,
He knows that they oft are longing, for home and
	its sweet repose;
So He calls them in from their labors, ere the
	shadows o'er them creep,
And silently watching o'er them. He giveth His
	loved ones sleep."

	She has gone! As the news spread over the little
town, it carried sadness to the hearts of her many
friends. Though we knew she had gone to her
long earned rest, our hearts were touched; for we
hated to say "good bye" to one we loved so
dearly.
	Sister Mary Ancox Warren passed away Novem-
ber 2nd, 1905, at her daughter's residence, Mrs.
Kate Day, of Oasis.
	She was born in Tyson, Middlesex, England,
December 21st, 1824; baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the year 1844;
came to Utah in 1874. She was the wife of Ed-
ward Warren and mother of fourteen children,
seven of whom are living.
	It is twenty-two years since Mrs. Warren was
separated from her mate, whose life blended so
harmoniously with hers. We must be content
when we know that our loss means some one's
gain. She has lived with her daughter, Mrs. Day,
since her husband's demise.
	Sister Warren's one great desire was to serve
God and work in His kingdom. She knew His
teachings well and never lost an opportunity of
expounding His principles and praising His good-
ness  She labored for many years as president of
the Oasis Relief Society, always alive to her duty
and putting forth such effort in her work that her
light shone and every member of the society felt
its radiance. She was honorably released from
this position on account of the responsibility being
too gre[-]t for her health, which was not good.
	Mrs. Warren never tired in well doing, she re-
mained an active teacher in the ward until the
time of her death. She was a woman of great
strength of character and executive ability. We
shall miss her words of counsel, cheer and comfort;
For we know her many loving deeds and appre-
ciate her many noble qualities, which will ever 
live in the memory of her friends.
	May her bereaved sons and daughters be com-
forted in the assurance that their mother is not 
dead, but has gone to continue her labors in a
higher and better world. 	D.H.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
	  Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
	  The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
 	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
	  We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


