[Column 2]
bers of the Society, he wished those not
members to withdraw. After which he
called attention to the 12th chapter of Co-
rinthians, "Now concerning spiritual gifts,"
etc., said the passage which reads, "No
man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but
by the Holy Ghost," etc., should be trans-
lated "No man can know," etc., contin-
ued the reading of the chapter, and gave
instructions respecting the different offices
and the necessity of every individual act-
ing in the place allotted to him or her,
and filling the office to which they were
appointed.
	Spoke of the disposition of some to
consider the lower offices in the Church
dishonorable and to look with jealous
eyes on the position of others; said it was
the nonsense of the human heart to aspire
to positions not appointed of God, that
it was better for individuals to magnify
their respective callings and wait patient-
ly till God shall say to them, "Come up
higher," said it was talked by members of
the Society that some were not doing
right in laying hands on the sick. If they
had common sympathy, they would re-
joice that the sick could be healed. The
time has not been before when these
things could be in their proper order. The
Church is not now organized in its proper
order and cannot be until the temple is
completed. He referred to the commis-
sion given to the ancient Apostles, "Go
ye into all the world," etc., no matter
who believes these signs, such as healing
the sick, casting out devils, should follow
all that believe, whether male or female,
	If the sisters have faith to heal the sick,
let them do so, and let the good work roll
on. It is no sin for anybody to adminis-
ter to the sick that has faith, or if the sick
have faith to be healed by the adminis-
tration.
	Reproved those that were disposed to
find fault, spoke at some length on the
difficulties he had had to surmount ever
since the organization of the Church, on
account of aspiring men, said the same
aspiring disposition will be in this Society
and must be guarded against.
	As he had the opportunity he would in-
struct the Society how to act according to
the will of God. He did not know that
he should have many opportunities of
teaching them, they were going to be left
to themselves, they would not long have
him to instruct them, the Church would
not have his instruction long and the
world would not be troubled with him a
great while, according to his prayer God
had appointed him elsewhere. The con-
gregation was melted to tears.
	He exhorted the sisters to sustain with
their confidence, their faith, and their
prayers, those whom God had appointed
to lead. Said the keys are about to be
given to you that you may be able to de-
tect anything false, as readily as the Eld-
ers. If members of the Society become
corrupt, you must deal with them, the
sympathies of the heads of the Church
have induced them to bear with those that
were corrupt, in consequence of which
all become contaminated, you must put
down iniquity and by your good example
provoke the Elders to good works.
	If you do right, there is no danger of
going too fast, resist evil, and there is no
danger, neither God, men, angels or dev-
ils can condemn those that resist every-
thing that is evil. As well might the
devil seek to dethrone Jehovah as that

[Column 3]
soul that resists everything evil. You are
now placed in a situation where you can
act according to those sympathies which
God has planted in your bosoms. If you
accord with your privileges angels cannot
be restrained from being your associates.
	Women if they are pure and innocent
can come into the presence of God. If
we would come into the presence of God
we must be pure. The devil has great
power, his ways are deceptive. Do not
be contentious, but let the weight of in-
nocence be felt, which is more mighty
than a millstone hung about the neck,
meekness, love, purity, these are the
things that should magnify us.
	Iniquity must be purged out, then the
veil will be rent and the blessings of
heaven will flow down,
	After this instruction you will be more
responsible; it is an honor to save your-
selves, all are responsible for themselves.
Then read the 13th chapter of Cor.,
"Though I speak with the tongue of
men," etc., said do not be limited in your
views in regard to your neighbors' vir-
tues, do not think yourselves more right-
eous than others. You must enlarge your
souls towards others, if you would do
like Jesus and carry your fellow creatures
to Abraham's bosom, He had manifested
long suffering and we must do the same.
	Said, "Though one have the spirit of
prophecy," etc., though one should be-
come mighty and do great things, over-
throw mountains, and then turn to do
that which is evil, all former deeds would
not save them, but they would go to de-
struction. As you increase in innocence,
virtue and goodness, let your hearts ex-
pand, let them be enlarged towards
others, you must be long-suffering and
bear with the faults and errors of man-
kind. How precious the souls of men!
The society is to get instruction through
the order which God has established,
through the medium of those appointed
to lead, and I now turn the key to you in
the name of God, and this Society shall
rejoice and knowledge and intelligence
shall flow down from this time, this is the
beginning of better days for you.
	When you go home never give a cross
word, but let kindness, charity and love
crown your works. Do not envy sinners,
exercise mercy towards them.
	Let your administrations be confined
mostly to those around you. As far as
knowledge is concerned, it may extend to
all the world. But your administration
should be confined to the circle of your
acquaintance, and more especially to the
members of the Society. Those ordained
to lead the Society are authorized to ap-
point officers as the circumstances shall
require.
	If any have a matter to reveal, let it be
in your own tongue, do not indulge too
much in the gift of tongues, or the devil
will take advantage.
	You may speak in tongues for your
comfort. But I lay this down as a rule,
that if anything is taught by the gift of
tongues, it is not to be received as doc-
trine.
	President Smith then gave instruction
respecting women administering to the
sick by the laying on of hands, said it was
according to revelation, he never was
placed in similar circumstances and never
had given the same instruction.
	At the ninth Relief Society meeting,
May 26th, the Prophet read the 14th


