[column 2]
illness was a very learned book, which
she intended to be an illustration of that
startling work, “Ecce Homo.” For a
long time the authorship was a puzzle;
eventually solved by Prof. Seeley be-
coming known as the writer. As puzzling
was the true identity of George El-
iot. For two years did that remain a
mystery. Not even could her Coventry
friends guess it to be their “Marian.” It
seems to have been maintained on ac-
count of the way the world regarded her
union with George Lewes. This union
threatened at first to break up the tender
feeling of the old-time coterie. For sev-
eral months no letters seem to have been
exchanged. Miss Hennell was evidently
the first to condone it. In the following
year, 1855, a letter was written in answer
to a remonstrating one from her sweet
friend, Mrs. Bray. She says: “We are
working hard to provide for others better
than we provide for ourselves, and to
fulfill every responsibility that lies upon
us. * * * Light and easily broken
ties are what I neither desire theoretically
nor could live for practically. Women
who are satisfied with such ties do not act
as I have done.”	
	The divorce laws of England were ex-
ceedingly strict, and allowed no loophole
of escape for Mr. Lewes from his first
most utterly uncongenial marriage, whose
true ties had been, I believe, already sev-
ered in reality by his wife.
	I remember hearing at the time of their
son Thornie’s long illness and subsequent
death in 1869, she came to see her son in
George Eliot’s home.
	Mrs. Cash was staying with us, I think,
about the same year, when she saw her
old friend again for the first time since
she had united herself with George Lew-
es. It was one of her weekly at-home
days at the ‘Priory.” Mrs. Cash said on
return that there was a string of great
people’s carriages drawn up outside the
gates. Excepting the knowledge that the
step had at last been condoned by the
“upper ten.” it was poor pleasure to Mrs.
Cash to meet her friend again, with her
warm heart and tender ways, beneath the
eye of the public.
	Just as we went to make our home at
Downe, we found that George Eliot had
but lately vacated “Blackbrook,” Chisel-
hurst, within four miles of us. She had
stayed there a few months as an experi-
ment, in order to find out whether it
would be desirable for a country home.
Some friends of our own went to live at
Blackbrook, with its “fine lawn and grand
trees,” immediately afterwards—a sister
of Sidney Dobell, the poet. I need hard-
ly say how redolent the house seemed on
my first visit with its former famous occu-
pant, George Eliot. People who knew
her there spoke of her as being a great
invalid most of the time, but generally her
health always improved on moving away
from London.
	At the beginning of her literary life,
when she was working at journalism, it
seemed necessary to live there, but when
her successful fiction pushed journalism
into the background, it seems a great
pity that she did not eschew London
with its poor air, its yellow fogs, smoke
blackened bricks and mortar, acting as it
did as a perpetual depressant to George
Eliot’s highly sensitive temperament,
But for these anti-climatic influences it
seems as though she might have been

[Column 3]
here yet, with the still deeper “satisfac-
tion,” as she says of her first book, “in
having done a bit of faithful work, that
will remain like a primrose root in the
hedgerows, and gladden and chasten hu-
man hearts for years to come.” She did
live long enough to see the wish fulfilled,
expressed in a letter io Miss Hennell:
“If I live five years longer,” she writes in
1857, “the positive result of my existence
on the side of truth and goodness will
outweigh the small negative good that
would have consisted in my not doing
anything to shock others; and I can con-
ceieve no consequences that will make
me to repent the past.”
	Long after that she pens this testimo-
ny: “I am very happy—happy in the
highest blessing life can give us, the per-
fect love and sympathy of a nature that
stimulates my own to healthful activity.”
At the commencement of their “dual
solicitude”—as she expresses their life
together—one is struck with the way the
two brick led to the perpetual mill of
journalistic work, grinding out articles
and reviews on all kinds of abstruse sub-
jects for the “Westminster” and other
magazines, in order to provide an educa-
tion for Mr. Lewes’ sons. The marvelous
success of her fiction must have indeed
come in as a blessed relief to all this
“grind” to a woman after suffering from
frail and feeble health.
	In comparing George Eliot with the
Russian mathematician Sonya Kovalevs-
ky (whose life has lately appeared), an-
other woman with “a man’s head and a
woman’s heart,” how incomparably more
happy for George Eliot that she became
the wife of a man of whom she could say,
in words to the same effect, as each suc-
ceeding year she closed her journal: “My
happiness deepens, the blessedness of a
perfect love and union grows daily.”
