[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General semi-annual Conference of
the Relief Society was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly hall, Thursday, October
5, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Bathsheba W. Smith presiding. Open-
ing hymn, “Glory to God on high,” pray-
er by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. Sister White
took charge of the singing, which was
furnished by the Granite Stake sisters.
Roll call. showing a large attendance of
representatives from the several Stakes.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith made
an address in which she commended the
sisters for their good works and felt to
congratulate all on the splendid attend-
ance, as it was larger in numbers than at
any previons conference, felt proud of the
labors of the faithful sisters, and urged
them to take care of the youth of Zion
as well as to assist the needy and nurse
the sick. She realized the magnitude of
the work and its importance, and exhorted
one and all to maintain their integrity to
the Gospel and bear testimony of the
truth.
	Reports from presidents were called for
and President Mary John of Utah Stake,
gave a summary of the financial condi-
tion of the Society in that Stake, and re-
ferred to her recent serious illness and her
gratitude for her restoration to health
which enabled her to be present with us
today; spoke of the false teachers and
preachers rising up to lead the weak and
doubting ones astray.
	Sister Leah Blackburn reported Wayne
Stake in excellent condition.
	The sisters from Granite Stake rend-
ered the hymn composed by Sister Emily
H. Woodmansee, for the Relief Society
Jubilee, “Daughters of Zion, the friends
of the poor,” Sister Green leading, Sis-
ter Emilie Maeser accompanist.
	Relief Society Los Angelos branch was
reported by President Eliza Woollocott,
she stated they were differently situated
there from the sisters in Zion and conse-
quently their labors differed from ours,
they assisted the Elders and mission in
various ways, and were doing everything
possible to promote Gospel work; had
some hindrances, yet were prospered in
many respects.
	President Jane S. Richards, Weber
Stake, spoke upon “Visiting and Healing
the Sick.” She referred first to the Sav-
ior's baptism, then related some of her
experiences in the Church and the inci-
dent concerning her baptism, and the
opposition that was raging at that time;
she had been given up by the physician,
etc., she was as one raised from the

