LETTER FROM KENTUCKY.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	DEAR SISTER:—I received your most
kind and welcome missive yester eve.
We were glad to have a word from you,
and also that you had received the pay-
ment for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, for I
love to read it. It is a help to me in va-
rious ways.
	No, ma'am, I do not see the Elders
very often; but am very glad to see them
when I do. There are not enough mem-
bers in this part of the country for the
Elders to visit, or for any of them to
come often. You will please continue to
send the WOMAN'S EXPONENT to Cisney.
I have a son there who takes my mail
out of the office and keeps it for me till I
go home. My present address is only
temporary.
	I am teaching school and will be here
only a few months. Yes, Brother Smith
sent me the receipt for the money re-
ceived for the paper. Thanks to you for
sending the same. I am a widow and
have to make a living the best I can. I
have been working and trying to get to
Zion about twenty years, and have not
succeeded yet. I am so very anxious to
come to Zion and visit the temple and
receive the holy ordinances of the same.
I  thought I had arrangements made so I
could get there this next year; but, alas!
disappointment has come to my expected
plans. I often wonder and think why is
it that I cannot get there, Then I think
perhaps, I am not living just as I ought,
so I would be permitted to go and receive
those holy ordinances. I am really desir-
ous to receive the patriarchal blessing
from the hands of the patriarch, also the
blessings from the higher ordinances of the
Church. I do not know what to do more
than I have done, only to stand still and
try to pray for help continually. I feel
so very weak in the spirit and faith that
I do not know what to do at all. You
may say I am all alone in the Gospel
here, fighting as best I can in my own
weak way.
	Now desiring the prayers of the Saints
also of President Smith that I may have
faith and intelligence, and be strength-
ened in body and mind in all things, that
I may be able to do a great work in
everything that is right for me to do. also
if I still continue to teach school, to have
wisdom, understanding, knowledge, pa-
tiance and intelligence; also all the qual-
ities I need to make me successful at all
times in everything my heavenly Father
would have me do. I desire to say at
all times and places, "Not my will but
Thine be done, O my Father in heaven."
But I often think how weak and frail the
poor weak creature of the earth is, and
that we can do nothing at all of ourselves,
but all our strength must come from our
Father in heaven through His Son Jesus
Christ.
	Now, dear sisters and brethren, one
and all, pray for me that I may be able
to do my Father's will at all times, and
be more and more obedient, relying
wholly on Him in all things, and live in
word and deed, action and thought, to do
His holy will, so that I may be able to
receive the many blessings He has in
store for me. Now, hoping to hear from
you soon, I remain,
N. C. D.
Oct. 30, 1905.


