MAY TEACHERS MARRY?
	We are inclined to smile when we read 
that the resident Fellows in an English 
university are forbidden to marry, and
memory instantly reverts to the long mo-
nastic tradition which is even yet  in con-
trol of education there. But what think
ye, my masters, of the fact that that same
monastic tradition obtains in practically 
all the public schools of the entire United 
States, or rather did obtain there until
the Court of Appeals of New York hand-
ed down a decision a few days ago, deny-
ing the right of the Brooklyn School
Board to enforce its by-law to the effect 
that "should a female principal, head of
department, or teacher marry, her place 
shall thereupon be declared vacant"
The court held that there was no author-
ity in the school board to make or en-
force any law at all on the subject, and 
so put an end to enforced celibacy in
education in one small section of our
country; but it still obtains almost every- 
where else. 
	Celibacy in education is an awful 
thing; it takes the woman out of life to
make her a school teacher. It forbids 
her to have children of her own in order
that she may go on teaching other peo-
ple's children. If she marries, she is
driven out of the school room, though
the mother-and-child relation is the very
one that should best fit her for the work
of teaching. What an unlovely calling
this is which forbids the bulk of those
who follow it to lead a normal human 
life! Is it any wonder that most people
hesitate to enter upon it, knowing that it
involves the taking of all three of the


monastic vows—poverty, obedience and 
celibacy? What an awful thing it is to 
follow a profession that one must desert 
just as soon as she begins to live nor-
mally! Yet the t[-]me is coming, and it is 
not far off, either, when the married wo-
man will no longer be driven out of the 
school room, but will be at a premium
there.
	Dr. Harris seems to think that there 
are none but celibates teaching now. He 
says that "no teacher has a right to com-
plain on a socialistic basis if he is receiv-
ing a salary for his annual services, of 
$600," since the income of the nation is 
only $551.56 per inhabitant.—Western
Journal of Education.


