Here I live their living, breathe their breath,
Almost, I think, that with one common sigh,
We might resign all mundane care and strife,
And live together one ethereal life.’
	There should be in the home the one-
ness that Hood speaks of—that each
should strive by thought, word and ac-
tion to meet the wishes of the others;
to make our own wishes and desires sub-
servient to theirs.
	If we can train ourselves to live for
others in the home, this unselfishness
will become part of ourselves, and we
shall carry it with us, and the spirit of
it will be felt outside the home circle.
	It takes two to make a quarrel, never
be the first one. If a difference should
arise, have it settled before bed time,
and never sleep on it.
	 It is well to meet for prayer before re-
tiring, as it brings the members closer
together as a family, and with hearts at-
tuned their prayers will assuredly ascend
to the throne of grace.
	I think that verse in the “Cotter’s Sat-
urday Night” is so beautiful:
“He proffers up to Heaven the warm request
That He who stills the raven’s clamorous nest,
And decks the lily fair in flawery pride,
Would in the way His wisdom sees the best,
 For them and for their little ones provide.
Compared to this Italian trills are vain,
The tickled ears no heartfelt rapture raise,
Nae unison hae they in their Creator’s praise.”
	We cannot aim too high. Let all our
aim in life be high. If for any reason we
have to lower our standard, do it with
grace, for the time, but with the full de-
termination to raise it at the first oppor-
tunity. Fame won by self-exertion mer-
its universal praise.
	The next thing in the home is industry
and system. Remember the old adage:
“A stitch in time saves nine.” Do the
thing that requires doing, if possible, at
the time. “Procrastination is the thief
of time.” Too often, if we put a thing
off it is not done at all, and sometimes at
a great monetary loss.
	System is one of the most important
things to be observed in the home.
“A place for everything and every-
thing in its place.” It takes no longer
to put a thing in its place than it does to
lay it down for somebody—generally
mother—to put away; besides, it saves
time, for there is nothing more annoying
than to have to hunt for a thing when
you want it; and nothing that tires a
man’s temper more. The husband has
but little time, usually, and although I do
not think a man should expect to be
waited on hand and foot and set up to
be worshiped by the whole household
more than the rest, still I think that un-
necessary annoyance should be saved
him. He is the bread winner, and we
should consider his time as valuable, and
render him all the assistance possible to
prevent irritation; send him off to his
work with a full stomach and a happy
heart, and above all things, let him

[Column 3]
feel the love that is borne him in the
home, and make him feel that “there is
no place like home,” after the exertions
and worries of the day.
	A wise mother will set the children
their allotted tasks. It is a mistaken
kindness on the part of mothers to do
everything when the children can help.
Give them their time to work and their
time to play, which is a preparation for
the life they should look forward to in
the future. If they are allowed to idle in
childhood, be sure they will be good for
nothing men and women when they grow
up, “Blots on the face of the earth.”
	Shakespeare says:
“What can ennoble sots and cowards?
Not all the noble blood of all the Howards.”
	Laziness leads to bad companionship,
which is the stepping stone to every vice
under the sun. It is said, “It begins in
cobwebs and ends in iron chalns,”
	The more we do, the more we can ac-
complish, which is fully proved by many
of our good sisters,
	We learn by it to economize time and
make the best of every quart[-]r of an
hour. It is not the grind it appears when
cheerfulness and contentment go with
the work. A mother never makes a trou-
ble of the work the little ones make
her. The dirty window panes, the sticky
furniture, because love goes with the
work.
	Why, there is nothing that makes work
so easy and fills the heart with so much
joy. It is a manifest sign of wisdom.
Solomon says, “A contented mind is a 
continual feast;” I know it is a continual
joy.
	Home! What music in the word! We
live at home, and we hope to die at
home. So that the comfort of the home
is of more deep, heartfelt and personal
interest to us than the public affairs of all
the nations of the world.
	Let every woman feel in her heart of
hearts, there is no place like home; and
be it a palace or a cottage she will be a
happy woman, and her home will be an
Ideal one.
