[Column 2]
dead after the baptism; told many inter-
esting circumstances in her journeyings
in the Church when the power of God
was made manifest. and appealed to those
present to train their children in the true
Gospel, of which she bore a strong and
earnest testimony; believed that faithful
mothers' prayers would be answered in
regard to their children, when they do all
in their power to teach them right; en-
couraged all present to take part in the
work of the Relief Society; it would be of
the greatest benefit and would make
their daily duties lighter.
	Solo, Beatrice Thomas of Granite
Stake, “Not, Not There, my Child.”
	Singing, “Oh, Jesus, the Giver.” Ben-
ediction President Margaret A. Romney.
	Afternoon session, 2 o'clock, President
B. W. Smith presiding. Singing, Sister
Margaret C. Hull leading, “Glorious
things of thee are spoken.” prayer Sister
Julia P, M. Farnsworth, singing, “For
the strength of the hills we bless Thee,”
accompanist, Sister Lizzie Thomas.
	President B. W. Smith greeted all with
a happy greeting, she was especially
pleased to see so many Relief Society
workers assembled, wanted them all to be
strong in the faith of the Gospel and teach
its principles to their children, generally
I think they do know it is right, remem-
ber we have it direct from the holy an-
gels through the Prophet Joseph Smith,
with the power and authority, and we
have the privilege to bless the sick and to
comfort those who are cast down, and it
is a great thing to have this testimony
ourselves, and that we keep the com-
mandments of God; let our religion be
first and foremost, and manifest that we
belong to the Church and kingdom of
God, I take more pleasure in hearing
others speak instead of speaking myself
and I believe in short speeches and short
prayers, I pray you may be comforted
and blessed, and continue faithful in our
most holy faith, and I bless you all.
Amen.
	President Williamina Erickson, North
Sanpete Stake, gave quite a definite ac-
count of the conditions existing among
the people in that locality, there had been
much sickness and some deaths, spoke of
the financial status of the Relief Society;
they have two good halls and one in
course of erection, some wards own lots,
and expect to build in the near future;
felt the mothers' work an advantage and
hoped through that to reach the fathers
as well as the young mothers.
	President Annie R. Duke, Wasatch
Stake, made a fine report of work done;
she referred to leaving Nauvoo in 1846 at
the time of the exodus, crossed the plains
in 1852, her father's family had endured
much hardship in the experiences of those
days.
	President Lilyus C. Page, of Nebo
Stake, reported the Stake in a flourishing
condition in a temporal way, building
halls, saving grain, making quilts and
homemade carpets; had visited the whole
Stake regularly; and the Tintic district
recently added to Nebo from Juab had
been visited once; the poor and sick were
well cared for and the union meetings
were held regularly on the same day as
the Priesthood meetings
	Duet, two young girls from Ensign
Stake, fine singers, Misses Poulton.
	Sister Hattie Blair, recently returned,
reported the branch in New York City,


