[Column 2]
and carry on the work; thought the ward
conferences were a great benefit in get-
ting the society work before the people,
hoped that every woman in Zion would
have her name enrolled, "because it is a
roll of honor;" prayed we might increase
in numbers and have the blessing of the
Lord to help us in our labors.
	President Margaret A. Romney felt it
a great honor to represent the Ensign
stake, for it was in a thriving condition.
She used to think the 20th ward was the
best society, now she thought the seven
branches were all the best; they had
grand lectures on mother's work. Sister
Romney spoke highly of all the work in
the stake and of the help and support the
Relief society was to the Bishops, and
the appreciation they expressed of its
benefits.
	Solo by Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward,
"The Divine Redeemer," music by Gounod.
	President Sarah A. Colton was glad to
be present and sorry not to have been
able to attend with us on Thursday; said
she had been called to preside in the
stake a year ago last May, but had been
President in Vernal ward sixteen years;
had a desire to assist in the upbuilding of
the society and to minister to the dis-
tressed and those bowed down with sor-
row and trials. They were reading chap-
ters from the Bible and giving Book of
Mormon lectures in the society meetings,
the sisters asking questions; they had tes-
timony bearing, and were striving to
make some progress; she was interested
in saving grain, thought some had been
wasted because of not having places to
keep it secure.
	President Alice J. Call, Star Valiey
stake, said in that stake they were in a
very scattered condition, some sisters
walk two and three and some six miles
to attend meetings. The attendance did
not average half the membership, but she
had great charity for those who did not
attend, because she knew the circum-
stances; it was not a grain country, the
wheat was often frozen before it was ripe,
and generally speaking the people had to
buy their flour; the Bishops all realize
the benefits of the Relief Society.
	President Annie S. Musser, of Liberty
stake, gave an excellent report of the
work in that stake, and how much the
sisters enjoyed their labors, praised the
teachers, and spoke enthusiastically of
the work of the Church in general, and
blessed the presiding sisters and all who
were laboring in the glorious work of the
Lord in these latter days; rejoiced in all
that was being done for the upbuilding of
Zion in the earth.
	Sister Emily J. Anderson, late president
of Tooels stake, reported the affairs of
the Relief Society there as being in good
condition; she had visited around the
stake recently; a number of quilts had
been made and sold to good advantage,
and some given to the poor, the money
used to build with of those sold, felt the
society was doing a good work.
	Sister Rebecca E. Little gave an in-
structive lecture on the "Life of Christ,"
which we may hereafter publish in brief
if not in complete form.
	President B. W. Smith, at the close of
Sister Little's lecture, related an incident
in her own life. She said once when she
was real sick, the Prophet Joseph came
to see her; she was too bashful to ask
him to administer to her, but as he left

[Column 3]
he laid his hand on her head and she was
healed and got up well.
	Dr. Romania B. Penrose spoke upon
"Loyalty." Said to her the word had a
golden sound, felt that it is a great thing
to be true; in the family loyalty should
stand guard and each one true to the
other, and not allow the failings in the
home to go out. Referred to the course
pursued by some mothers of telling their
boys' bad actions; felt it was a bad prac-
tice; the boy's faults should be kindly re-
proved aside, not corrected before others.
In our Relief Society we should be true
and sustain each other, and be loyal. I
sometimes wonder if we are as loyal as
we ought to be to each other. It is our
bounden duty to pray earnestly for our
beloved president, Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, and her counselors, and all who
work with her. It [-]s a pleasure to listen
to those who can stand up and say, I
knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, and we
hope Sister Smith may live many years
to tell us of him, for he was a prophet
and a wonder. Now we are all filled with
loyalty to him and the work he estab-
lished. Think of the sorrow of the
Prophet Joseph Smith when he looked
among those who should have been his
friends and knew they were false. I am
sure it would have melted a heart of stone
to have listened to President Joseph F.
Smith yesterday at the close of the Con-
ference, when we had a baptism of bless-
ing from his mouth," closed by exhorting
all to be faithful and true.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde felt she owed
an apology for coming in late, but she
had been talking with strangers at the
Bureau of Information; said she had al-
ways attended the Conferences of the
Church ever since the days of "the bow-
ery," but had never attended a confer-
ence like the one yesterday. Surely
President Smith's testimony showed the
power of the Lord; thought no trials
were counted too great by her parents.
Let us teach our children the Gospel and
to attend to all the duties, and let us be
at our post always, and see that good men
are elected to govern, and use all our op-
portunities, and try to be a benefit; strive
to remember the blessings that come to
us through faith.
	"The spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing" was sung by the congregation, led
by Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward. Ben-
ediction by Sister Annie C. Woodbury.
	Conference adjourned until seven
o'clock at the same place.

		(To be continued.)
		EMERY STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the
Emery stake of Zion was held at Price,
October 31, 1905. The stake officers
were all present, also President John H.
Pace and Counselor Henry G. Mathis.
The conference began at 10 a.m., Presi-
dent Mary A. Sorenson presiding. Sing-
ing' "How Firm a Foundation." Open-
ing prayer was offered by President John
H. Pace.
	President Mary A. Sorenson welcomed
all and gave a short report of the Relief
society of Emery stake.
	President Henrietta Hill reported the
Wellington society. A vocal solo, "Lord
Thou Wilt Hear Me When I Pray," was
rendered by Sister Nellie Wilson of Price.
	A lecture on "Infancy," from Mother's


Plan Work, was ably and interestingly
given by Sister Lucinda C. Curtis, of Or-
angeville. A report of the Castle Gate
society was given by President Elizabeth
Young, who also gave some of her early
experiences in the Church.
	President Henry G. Mathis spoke of
Relief society work in general and the
good that is being done by the same.
Singing, "Praise to the Man who Com-
muned with Jehovah." Benediction by
Secretary Maria Allen.
	Afternoon session at 2 p.m.  Singing,
"Redeemer of Israel." Invocation by
Sister Anna Miller. Singing, etc. Roll
called and seven Relief society branches
represented. Secretary Allen read the
minutes of the previous conference, also
the stake financial report for the year
ending Dec. 31, 1904, which were unani-
mously accepted.
	Instrumental music rendered by Sister
Violet Flack of Price.
	Stake Counselor Mary J. King spoke
on the duties of officers and members of
the Relief society. President Rhoda
E. Robertson reported the Orangeville
society. A vocal solo was rendered by
Sister Griffiths of Castle Gate. Counselor
Maria Guymon spoke on a mother's du-
ties to her family, and keeping the Sab-
bath day holy. Elder  Robert Green-
wood, of Price, on missionaries and Re-
lief society work. Elder H. E. Curtis, of
Orangeville, on the raising and training
of children.
	Secretary Maria Allen spoke of the
General Conference and visiting the Dr.
Groves' L, D. S. hospital.
	President John H. Pace spoke on punc-
tuality. 
	Bishop Ernest S. Horsley, of Price, ad-
vised all to teach children to remember
the important events of their lives.
	Stake President Mary A. Sorenson
thanked all present, and especially the
Price sisters, for helping to make the con-
ference a success.
	Singing, "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," etc. Benediction by Sister
Isabella Bryner.
	MARIA ALLEN, Secretary.


