[Column 1]
the work they do there is very important,
and has been very effective, she gave a
good account of the meetings and the
spread of the Gospel.
	President Addie Cazier of the Juab
Stake said they had taken up the Book
of Mormon since they got through the
mothers' work, she testified it had been a
blessing, they were anxious the young
mothers should join the society.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, referred to the great distances
they had to travel in visiting—a thousand
miles—and not a mile of railroad, they
were very proud of their Stake, much
credit is due the people for energy and
perseverance, they had a good opening in
the Muddy Valley, she had great hopes of
that country, the Lord had blessed them,
etc.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke on the spirit
of Relief Society work, giving her views
of the importance of entering into it with
one's whole soul, felt it was a wonderful
development for the sisters, the greatest
and grandest organization of women in
the world.
	Sister Julina L. Smith spoke upon
"Business Methods in the Home," Sister
Smith discussed this subject in all its
phases; asked the question, "What does
it take to establish any kind of business?"
Union and order, everyone should have
a share in the home, to do some of the
work; each one doing the part allotted to
her, etc.; thought there was a very great
difference between economy and stingi-
ness, spoke particularly upon the art of
bread making., and gave many useful,
suggestive hints on housekeeping.
	Sister Margaret C. Hull sang a solo,
"There is no song but has a minor
strain," "The Echo."
	Choir sang "The trials of the present
day," etc. Benediction, President Annie
S. Musser.
	Conference  continued in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall, Monday, October 9, com-
mencing at 2 p.m., President Bathsheba
W. Smith presiding. Singing. (Sister
Lizzie Thomas Edward having gracious-
consented to take charge of the singing.)
"Come let us anew," prayer by Sister
Mary A. C. Lambert, singing "Redeemer
of Israel."
	President B. W. Smiith, in her opening
remarks, welcomed all most cordially,
felt it a great pleasure to see the large
congregation of sisters, wished she could
take every one by the hand, but that
would take too long; she felt a great love
for them, and a desire to know each one
personally; spoke of her feelings when-
ever she heard the hymn, "Redeemer of
Israel," it reminded her of the time when
they were wandering on the desert land,
she and her sister, they had been sent
from the state, and felt indeed they were
wanderers and in sorrow, for the Prophet
Joseph was in prison, and no one knew
what would transpire—it was a time of
sadness. "I feel to bless you all, and say
Peace be unto you and in your homes,
and may we all prove faithful and true."
	President Annie Wells Cannon report-
ed the Relief Society of the Pioneer stake
for the first time, though they were or-
ganized a year ago last April, spoke of of
ficers' meetings being well attended,
thought President M. I. Horne and her
co-laborers had left the branches in such
order, that it had been comparatively easy
for those coming after them to take hold

