[Column 1]
chapter of Ezekiel, and said the Lord
had declared by that prophet that the
people shonld each one stand for them-
selves and depend on no man or men; in
the state of corruption in the Jewish
Church, the righteous persons could only
deliver their own souls. Applied it to the
present condition of the Church of Lat-
ter-day Saints. If the people depart
from the Lord, they must fall, they were
depending on the Prophet, hence there
was darkness in their minds.
	He had two things to recommend to the
Society. Be guarded in your speech, no
organized body can exist without giving
heed to this caution. All organized bod-
ies have their peculiar evils, weaknesses
and difficulties, the object is to make
those not so good equal with the good,
and ever hold the keys of power which
will influence to virtue and goodness.
	When you chasten and reprove, never
mention it again, then you will be estab-
lished in power, virtue and holiness and
the wrath of God will be turned away.
God designs to save the people out of 
their sins. Jesus said, "Ye shall do the
works which ye see me do," these are the
grand key-words for the Society to act 
upon. 
	The tenth meeting was addressed by
Bishop N. K. Whitney, President Joseph
Smith being present. 
	Eleventh meeting, June 9th, President
J. Smith, "It grieves me that there is no 
fuller fellowship, if one member suffers
all feel it, by union of feeling we obtain
power with God, Christ said He came to 
call sinners to repentance and to save
them, Christ was condemned by the 
righteous Jews because He took sinners
into His society, He took them upon the 
principle that they repent. Nothing is so
much calculated to lead people to forsake
sin, as to take them by the hand and 
watch over them with tenderness. The 
nearer we get to our Heavenly Father,
the more we are disposed to look with 
compassion on perishing souls. I say to
this Society, if you would have God have 
mercy on you, have mercy on each other.
How mild the Savior dealt with Peter,
saying, "When thou art converted,
strengthen thy brethren," at another time
He said to him, "Lovest thou me? Feed
my sheep." The Society is not only to 
relieve the poor, but to save souls.
	Sixteenth meeting. held in the Grove,
August 31st, 1842. After relating rceent
difficulties he had encountered while be-
ing hunted by his enemies, he said the Re-
lief Society has taken an active part in 
my welfare, in petitioning the Governor
in my behalf. These means were nec-
essary, and your influence helped to 
bring about my redemption from the 
hands of my enemies. I have come here
to bless you. The Society has done well,
their principles are to practice holiness.
God loves you and your prayers shall
avail much, do not cease to let them as-
cend to God in my behalf. The enemy 
will never get weary. I expect he will ar-
ray everything against me, expect a trem-
endous warfare. He that will war the
Christian warfare will have all the powers
of darkness continually arrayed against
him.
	A few things had been manifested to
him during his absence, respecting bap-
tism for the dead, which he would com-
municate next Sabbath if nothing should
occur to prevent it. He then offered a

