[Vol56 | May 1969 | Page 334 | Special Feature | Is Discipline a Problem? Frances | B. Barlow]
Meanwhile, he continued his studies in German and began to write for magazines in Edin- 334 burgh. His first important work was the Life of Schiller, the German poet. Other works included Sartor Resartus, Burns, Past and Present, and Frederick the Great. Carlyle knew intimately the meaning of work. After he had completed the first volume of The French Revolution, in 1837, he gave it to his friend, John Stuart Mill, to read. One of Mill's servants used the manuscript to start a fire. All of Carlyle's notes had been destroyed and he struggled to reproduce his masterpiece. The rewritten book was a success and established Carlyle's genius in the literary world of his times. Well could he say, "The wages of every noble work do yet lie in heaven."

[Is Discipline a Problem? Frances B. Barlow]

In the writings of Thomas Carlyle, we find over and over this philosophy regarding work: "Do the duty that lies nearest at hand." With regard to women's work, his wife Jane Welsh Carlyle at one time explained that "It is not the greatness or the littleness of the 'duty nearest at hand' but the spirit in which one does it that makes one's doing noble or mean." Jane Welsh and Thomas Carlyle had been married in October 1826. She loved him with a rare devotion and determined that he should never write for money, but only when he had something to say. Since his writing was their source of income, she had to manage carefully and well whatever money came to them. After eighteen months of happiness, new friends, and some successes in his writing in Edinburgh, Carlyle decided to save expenses by moving to Craigenputtock. Craigenputtock, Scotland, has been described as "the dreariest spot in all the British dominions." Craigenputtock was Jane Welsh's own ancestral property; her father had been borry there. The tenants were in arrears, and Mrs. Welsh, who lived nearby at Templand, was glad to have her daughter move to Craigenputtock. In 1828, when Thomas and Jane Carlyle made it their home, the old house stood gaunt and stern, quite alone on the sparse moors. The nearest cottage was a mile away. Jane Welsh had been an only child, born to wealth and servants and a life of art and culture. She describes herself as being "sublimely ignorant of every branch of useful knowledge, though a capital Latin scholar The Carlyles: Thomas and Jane and a very fair mathematician." In this out-of-the-way place, Mrs. Carlyle found she had to learn to sew. "Husbands," she says, "I was shocked to find, wear their stockings into holes, and were always losing buttons, and I was expected to 'look to all that.'" At this time also she found she had to learn to cook. Carlyle had expected the quietness and simplicity of the life at Craigenputtock to cure all his ailments. But his ills went with him, which Mrs. Carlyle described as "bad digestion." At first the Carlyles bought their bread from the baker at Dumfries, about sixteen miles away. But Carlyle soon found this "soured on his stomach." So Jane Carlyle decided to bake at home. She sent for Cobbett's Cottage Economy, and studied the recipe for a loaf of bread. (We are told that when Jane made her first pudding for Carlyle she locked herself alone in the kitchen so no one would disturb her accurate measuring of ingredients. ) Knowing little about the processes of yeast and their slowrising powers; Mrs. Carlyle was not ready to bake the bread until long past everyone's bedtime hour. "One o'clock struck," she says, "then two, and then three; and still I was sitting there in an immense solitude, my whole body aching with weariness, my heart aching with a sense of forlornness and degradation. That I, who had been so petted at home, whose comfort had been studied by everybody in the house, who had never been required to do anything but cul- 335 . May 1969 tivate my mind, should have to pass all those hours of the night in watching a loaf of bread— which might not turn out bread after all!" Alone in that -ancient kitchen Jane began to feel sorry for herself. Then, somehow, she remembered the story of Benvenuto Cellini who sat up all night watching his famed = statue, "Perseus," being baked in the furnace. She began to think what was the difference, after all, between her and Cellini, between his statue and her loaf of bread. Each was a noble work; each was the thing one's hand had found to do. All his will, energy, patience, and resources had gone into the molding of his statue. But had Cellini been a woman living in Craigenputtock, with a dyspeptic husband,'sixteen miles from abaker, perhaps all his artistic qualities could have done no better than a loaf-of bread. As this idea filled her mind, her watching became a joy, and the loaf of bread, golden and light when it came from the oven, was more precious than a work of art. During the years Jane lived at Craigenputtock this night's thinking often sustained her. Her patience, understanding, and endurance, and the spirit in which she did "the duty nearest at hand" contributed greatly to the noble work her famous husband accomplished. Reference: Life of Thomas Carlyle, Volume II, pp. 24-25, by J. A. Froude = — =. <> <> + -~ _ See e = aw — -— THE LOWLY PLACES The distant peaks with glinting spires and steeples, Are not for me—my place is far below, Where valleys teem and hurried toiling peoples Must face the everydays that come and go. The battlefield with all its urge and glory, "Is not for me—my home is far away, Where hero-lust and lore are only story, And petty cares must fill my every day.