AUTUMN SEEDLINGS.

	A cherished friend writes us privily: "It
seems as though a good visit with you would
be a renewal of life to me. It is a trite saying
that 'sociability is the cream of life.' But as 
far as that goes, I have to put up with blue
skimmed milk, and that on the turn."
	Poor hungry heart! To you, and to many
like you for you are not alone in a world of
trouble, not the only one who feels at times as
though a change from the daily drudgery and


cares of life would be a most welcome rest—
and to all such we recommend a change, a rest,
certainly. Do not give way to longing after
something unattainable, at least for the pres-
ent; but set your creative powers at work and
introduce for yourself some restful changes in
the busy routine of every day life.
	Have you read your Bible lately?: If not,
begin and steal (if you must do so) a half hour
either in the morning or at evening, for search-
ing out lessons from that, suitable to your wants.
You will be sure to find something applicable if
your religious sentiments are in proper order;
and if not, the remedy for that evil will be
readily found if truly sought.
	We do not, for a moment, believe, yet it is
barely possible, that you hav’n’t a Bible in the
house, nor any means of procuring one. Then
read the next best book you can get hold of. A
hymn book even, contains hints enough of a
correct nature to keep one busy a life time
learning to put into practice; for, the world
over, it is so much easier to suggest than to do.
	But the primitive nature of man is progress-
ive. Hence, without the spirit of improvement
and the power to improve, there can be no real
blessedness; with the first in full tact, however,
the latter must be impossible. If it be your lot
to cook and wash dishes, make and mend for a
family, “week in, week out, from morn till
night,” endeavor to discover the best methods
for getting along with this very essential kind
of work. Never think of giving up in despair,
never imagine your mission an onerous one.
Consider how much more useful and ennobling
is your life than the empty career of a “fashion
butterfly” who flits about from one sweet to
another without a true relish for any, and dis-
content with all. Seek to be cheerful and make
home so for its inmates. Teach the little ones
to cultivate happy dispositions and aid their
childish endeavors. As soon as they are old
enough to understand, find them something to
do, show them how to do it and trust them.
	Now that the autumn is here with its cool
mornings and evenings, let the household hearth
be lighted up with a bright, warm fire; and be
sure to change the summer clothing for warmer
apparel in good time. It is easier, cheaper and
in all respects far better to preserve health when
you have it, than to regain it after it is lost. Be
as well prepared as possible for changes in the
weather, so that when the beautiful, merry
sunshine shall forsake the outer world for a
season, it may still beam as brightly as ever in
the heart.


