FLOWERS.
WE forgive too little: forget too much.
THE innocent seldom find an uneasy pil-
low.
THE who receives a good turn should nev-
er forget, he who does one should never re-
member it.
THE human soul, like the water of the 
salt sea, becomes fresh and sweet in rising
to the sky.
THE labor of the body relieves us from
the fatigues of the mind, and this it is which
forms the happiness of the poor.
LOVE is described by SIMMS, in a semi-
poetical style, as "but another name for that 
inscrutable presence by which the soul is
connected with humanity."
SOME one to love! It is the cry of the 
human soul, the note to which every human
heart responds; the bond which will bind us
all together in that other world where
mourners will be comforted and love shall
reign forever.
THERE exists an element of real polite-
ness that is nearly allied to love; it is inher-
ent in some noble natures, but is still capa-
ble of cultivation, and from this fresh spring
in the human soul, emanates the most genu-
ine politeness, which actuates the conduct
of man, or woman.
EVERY song soothes and uplifts; at times
a song is as good as a prayer.  Indeed, a
song of the pure kind recognized in Script-
ure, is akin to a petition, which is also in
the spirit of thanksgiving.  The "sweet
singer of Israel" wedded his sincerest pray-
ers to melody and wafted them upward on 
the night air from his throbbing heart.
THE first use of education is to enable
us to consult with the wisest and the great-
est men on all points of earnest difficulty.
To use books rightly, is to go to them for
help; to appeal to them when our own
knowledge and power of thought fails; to be
led by them into wider sight, purer concep-
tion than our own, and to receive from
them the united sentence of the judges and 
councils of all time, against our solitary and
unstable opinion.—From Ruskin.


"EVERY tree is subject to a disease,"
said a speaker in a fruit-growers' conven-
tion. "What ailment can you find on the 
oak?" asked the chairman. " A-corn," was 
the triumphant reply.


A CHICAGO man excuses himself for not
going to some watering-place by saying he
fell into the river last May and got enough 
to last him a whole year.


IT is reported that a fat woman in Ore-
gon recently shot her recreant lover with a 
pistol, but it is unlikely. How could a
really fat woman carry small arms?


ALOFT on the throne of God, and not be-
low, in the footprints of a trampling multi-
tude, are the sacred rules of right, which 
no majorities can displace or overturn.-
Charles Sumner.


FIFTY-TWO boys at Great Falls have
signed a pledge to drink nothing stronger 
than coffee and tea, and to abstain from
vulgarity in every form. They have styled 
themselves the "Boys Reform Club."


