HYGIENIC NOTES.

 Charcoal has been discovered to be a cure for
burns: By laying a piece of cold charcoal upon a
burn, the pain subsides immediately. By leaving
the charcoal on one hour, the wound is healed, as
has been demonstrated on several occasions. The
remedy is cheap and simple, and deserves a trial.

 Excellent recipe for children for summer com-
plaint, teething, etc. Take one ounce of anise
seed and steep it thoroughly; strain it boiling hot
over one-half ounce of Turkish rhubarb grated fine,
add one-quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda,
one-half pound of sugar, and one pint of Jamaica
rum. Give in small doses, according to the age
and constitution of the patient; for a very young
child one-half teaspoonful three or four times a day
—for an older one a teaspoonful, and so on.

 The following is an excellent receipt for canker,
and is good for children troubled with diarrahea
when there is no sign of canker: 1 oz of golden
seal, 1 oz of baberry bark, 1 oz of gum myrrh, 1 oz
of ladies slipper, 1 oz of garden sage, 1 oz peach
blossoms, or 2 of the leaves, 1 oz red willow bark.
Add water and steep, then pour off and boil down
to one quart; sweeten with honey, or white sugar;
add liquor enough to keep it from souring. Dose,
one-half teaspoonful for a child one year old.

 A Bran Bed for Burns.—The Sanitarian says
that in cases of bad scalds of children, in which a
large part of the body is involved, it knows of no
dressing so good as a bran bed; that is, a bed of
bran in which the patient may lie, and be covered
with a thick investment of the same. This dress-
ing has the advantage of not requiring change, for
each day as the moist particles fall off they can be
replaced with fresh bran, without disturbing the
patient. One of the severest cases of scald re-
covered by this treatment. A great deal of harm
is done to patients by frequent dressings, and any
method that obviates this is most desirable. Pa-
tients frequently are exposed for hours to the ac-
tion of the air, suffering unnecessary pain by the
old and tedious process of dressing. The air it-
self does no injury, but the extreme hyperasthesia
of the skin produces a state of nervous tremor
which leads to exhaustion.—R. N. Y.


In the Cathedral of Limerick there hung
a peal of bells which it is said, were brought
from a convent in Italy, for which it had
been manufactured by an enthusiastic Ital-
ian, with great labor and skill. * * * *
After a long interval, the course of his wan-
derings brought him to Ireland. On a calm
and beautiful evening, as the vessel which
bore him floated along the broad stream of 
of the Shannon, he suddenly heard a peal
from the Cathedral tower.  They were the
bells—the long-lost treasures of his mem-
ory. *  *  Crossing his arms upon his
breast, he laid himself back in the boat, and
gazed and listened.  When the rowers
looked around, they saw his face still turned
toward the Cathedral, but his eyes had
closed forever on the world.  Such a tide of
memories had swept over the sympathetic
chords of his heart, that they had snapped
under the vibration.


A GERMAN pedlar sold a liquid for the 
extermination of bugs. "And how do you
use it?" inquired the man, after he had 
bought it. "Ketelrite but, and drop von
little drop into his mout," answered the
pedlar.  "You do!" exclaimed the purchas-
er.  "I could kill it in half that time by
stamping on it."  "Vell," exclaimed the
German "dat is a good vay, too."


