PRESIDENT B. YOUNG.

	My Dear Brother—In accordance with your
wish, I beg leave to present the following views
of an article in the Woman's Exponent of Sept.
1, 1875, and bearing the signature of Miss Eliza
R. Snow, entitled, "Mortal and Immortal Ele-
ments of the Human Body."
	Permit me here, Sir, to premise that I regret
exceedingly being under the necessity of differ-
ing from my dear Sister Eliza Snow, whom I
have always esteemed, and do now consider
to be one of the most upright, intelligent, hon-
orable and exemplary ladies in the world; but
as it is principle that we are all after, and one
of the great fundamental truths of heaven is
involved, I am sure that she, in common with
all lovers of truth, will excuse me for the free-
dom I have taken with her expressed and pub-
lished views. We have always been taught
that Jesus holds the keys of the resurrection,
and, as there are principles involved that con-
cern all the inhabitants of the world that have
lived, or do live, it is important that we do not
make mistakes on so grave a matter.
	In the above named article we are told that
"we are in possession of a very important and
beautiful principle, which pours a flood of light
into the mind,' &c. And again, "But, thanks
be to God for the key which solves the mys-
tery." Every organized human body, inde-
pendent of the spirit (which is a separate organ-
ization), is composed of two distinct grades or
classes of matter, and in such mutual combina-
tion as to serve the purposes of this lower ex-
istence. I beg here, Sir, to refer you to the
article, and will say, that if God had given
revelation, presented a key unfolding the mys-
teries of the resurrection, I would bow in hum-
ble submission; but I know of no such prin-
ciple, nor key; nor do I believe that any such
has been revealed, for which I have the most
satisfactory reasons. In the first place, I ought
to have known, in common with my brethren,
if such a principle had been revealed; and again,
[column 2]
it is in conflict with all the revelations and
teachings we have had on this subject.
	On reading the article the following thoughts
occurred to me—what did the spirit obtain by
taking a body? Was it not a body of flesh and
bones and blood? Did man ever possess any
other kind of body? Paul says, "The first man
Adam was made a living soul; the last Adam
was made a quickening spirit." 1 Cor. xv, 45.
	"The first man is of the earth, earthy; the
second man is the Lord from Heaven." Was
the Lord's body different from ours? He was
born of a virgin, and passed through all the
phases of birth, childhood, and manhood; he
ate and drank and slept; he lived and died as
man, and as man was resurrected; he ate after
his resurrection. "They gave him a piece of a
broiled fish, and of an honey comb. And he
took it, and did eat before them." Luke xxiv,
42-3 He also said to his disciples, "Behold my
hands and my feet, that it is I myself : handle
me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and
bones, as ye see me have." Ver. 39, 40. "Then
said he to Thomas, "Reach hither thy finger,
and behold my hands; and reach hither thy
hand, and thrust it into my side." John XX,
27. Was not this the same body? Were there
"two distinct grades or classes of matter" here,
as stated in that article?
	We are again told, "The graves were opened,
and many bodies of the saints which slept
arose, and came out of the graves after his
resurrection, and went into the Holy City, and
appeared unto many." Matt. xxcii. 52-3.
These resurrected bodies also appeared to many
and were known by them. There was no
"precious germ of an immortal tabernacle," as
stated in that article, but a tabernacle com-
plete; seen, known, felt, moving, speaking and
eating, at least with Jesus. What of Jesus'
tabernacle? We are told that he was "anointed
with the oil of gladness above his fellows.'
We are also told that "if the same spirit dwell
in you that raised up Christ from the dead, it
shall also quicken your mortal body." Did
Jesus and will man have a glorified body?
	Yes; but that certainly did not rest in the
grave. Is there, as stated, "a precious germ,"
or spiritual body, separate and distinct from
the above? If so, does it die, and where is it?
Does it partake of the elements of nature? Is
there anything earthly that is not "gross,
divisible and transferable?" If not, can any
matter be eliminated from this gross material,
which is not subject to nature's laws? If these
"substances are borrowed," as stated, "for pro-
bationary use," where is the substance that is
not borrowed? Of what is it composed, and
where does it exist? We are, indeed, told that
the pure substance, the germ of an immortal
tabernacle, "sleeps in mother earth in ac-
cordance with celestial law." I again ask,
where is that germ and where that law? It is
a beautiful theory, pleasing and poetic. Is it
true? If these questions cannot be answered
satisfactorily, should it be published?
	Brother Joseph Smith said in Nauvoo, re-
ferring to a tomb that he had built there, that
when he "arose from his tomb he expected to
strike hands with his father, mother and
brothers, those who would be there and rise
into life with him."
	Ezekiel tells us that he saw bone come to his
bone and sinew and flesh come upon them,
and the skin cover them. Ezek. xxxvii. Paul
says, "It is sown a natural body, it is raised a
spiritual body; there is a natural body, and
there is a spiritual body." What is the natu-
ral body? The body of flesh and bones and
blood, that died and was buried. What is the
spiritual body? The same body with flesh and
bones and spirit, the spirit occupying the place
of blood. I have heard President Joseph Smith
say that spirit would occupy the place of blood.
Hence, "The first man Adam was made a liv-
ing soul, the last Adam was made a quickening
spirit." 1 Cor. xv. 45. The same body arises
with all its component parts; but spirit takes
the part of blood. Blood was the life of the
natural body, as Moses says, "But flesh with
the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall
ye not eat." Gen. ix. 4. "I will even set my
[column 3]
face against that soul that eateth blood, and
will cut him off from among his people. For
the life of the flesh is in the blood." Lev.
xvii. 10.
	There is also another principle mentioned by
Paul, viz., the Holy Ghost. "If the same spirit
dwell in you that raised up Christ from the
dead, IT shall also quicken your mortal bodies."
Your what? Your mortal bodies. These bodies
that have been susceptible of all the infirmities
and weakness of humanity. We are told that
"flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of
God, nor corruption inherit incorruption." But
we are not told that flesh and spirit can not
inherit the Kingdom of God. Paul says,
"Know ye not that your body is the temple of
the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have
of God." 1 Cor. vi, 19. Again, "Know ye not
that ye are the temple of God, and that the
Spirit of God dwelleth in you?" 1 Cor., iii, 16.
Now if that spirit dwells in our bodies and
quickens them as it did the body of Jesus, here
is a principle for us to reflect upon. But we
must remember that it is our mortal body that
is quickened by it, and not, as stated, "the
precious germ of an immortal tabernacle."
Brother Joseph Smith taught, "You can tell
the difference between spirits and resurrected
bodies by the touch. You cannot feel a spirit,
you can a resurrected body." Again, "A spirit
hath not not flesh and bones, as ye see me have."
Luke xxiv, 39.
	But again, Paul says, "All flesh is not the
same flesh, but there is one kind of flesh of men,
another flesh of beasts, another of fishes, and
another of birds." 1 Cor. xv. 39.
	Joseph Smith taught the same doctrine as
that of Paul, and stated that "The flesh of man
cannot enter into, be united with, or compose
the component parts of the flesh; but that
the elements of man's body remain distinct
from that of every other body." I have heard
you, sir, state the same thing and say that
"the component parts of man's body can never
be destroyed; and that the body will always
retain its identity." This is strictly in accord-
ance with other laws of nature, in regard to
many mineral substances, which retain their
separate identity; such for instance as gold,
silver, copper, iron and other minerals, all of
which retain their separate parts and identity,
and all of which can be separated, by a chemi-
cal process, from any one of the other. I am
inclined to think that Sister Eliza has drawn
her ideas from the above stated doctrine we can
all acquiesce in, but not in that which is super-
added.
	The Holy Ghost, above alluded to, dwells in
the body of man, and when the power of God
is manifested by Jesus Christ, who is, "the
resurrection and the life," the whole body is
quickened, as by a magnetic fire, and bursts
forth into newness of life, as stated in the Book
of Mormon—"The paradise of God must de-
liver up the spirits of the righteous, and the
grave deliver up the body of the righteous; and
the spirit and the body is restored to itself
again, and all men become incorruptible and
immortal, and they are living souls, having a
perfect knowledge like unto us in the flesh."
2 Nephi, chap. vi, par. 5.
	What have we to do with the theories of
men in regard to the reorganization and re-
surrection of the body? If God has decreed it,
and we have faith in it, will not that do?
Yet some of Nature's laws exhibit a very strik-
ing analogy. A steam engine is a beautiful
machine, and possesses great power, either sta-
tionary or as a locomotive; but its power de-
pends upon the power or action of steam; the
engine without the steam could accomplish
nothing, nor could the steam without the en-
gine. The body of man living is a magnificent
piece of machinery, the most perfect of God's
creation, and is made in His own image. His
body, however, without the spirit, is dead and
inanimate. The body dead possesses before its
decay its form, members and organs, its bones,
muscles, veins, arteries, nerves and all its com-
ponent parts; but, like the engine without


steam, so the body without the spirit is inert,
powerless and dead.  If when in action any part
of the steam engine is disorganized, it loses its
force and power; so does the body when de-
ranged or deceased; but the engine is still the 
same.  Sometimes the body is more fleshy and
robust than at other times; but it is still the
same body, and does not lose its identity. The
iron, brass, etc., of which the engine is com-
posed may be decomposed, but not destroyed;
those same properties could again be united by
chemical action; not indeed the same form
without remanipulation, but the body, being
under other and higher laws than we compre-
hend, laws associated with and governing the
principles of life, can be reorganized.  Those
laws, though strictly scientific, are beyond our
comprehension and baffle our ideas, which are
framed from a very imperfect knowledge of
some of the first and most common principles of
natural law.  Hence it is said, "No man knows
the things of God, but by the Spirit of God."
"Great is the mystery of godliness, God man-
ifested in the flesh."  Who can explain the
mystery of the formation of a shrub, a flower,
even a blade of grass?  Yet these are natural
things.  What of man, the noblest work of
God, in his organization, birth, growth, life,
death and futurity; his body and spirit; their
union, points of contact and separation; the
resurrection of the body; its reunion with the
spirit; his past, present and future? What
human philosophy can solve this problem?
What is meant by "the gross, volatile matter"
of the body or earth? Is there any matter con-
nected with man, beast, bird, fowl, fish, insect,
tree, shrub or plant: with animal or vegetable
life; or any matter of which the earth, air or
water is composed, that is not indestructible and
eternal? When "the elements shall melt with
fervent heat," will there be any part de-
stroyed? Not one particle.  If this be true in
relation to the earth, why not in relation to the
body of man?  Why should the decomposition
and changes incident to mortality render im-
possible their rearrangment, reconstruction
and reorganization?  A man can take one of the 
finest metals-gold, and by chemical action re-
duce it to a very fine powder, and blow it away
and cause it to be mixed and absorbed by other
matter; he can, by another process, gather,
separate, and restore that gold to its previous
solidity and fineness.  Cannot God do as much
with matter as man, with his limited capacity?
We are cited very correctly to a higher law,
whereby Jesus turned water into wine,
"through the agency of chemical laws of a 
higher order than those taught in the schools,"
by the concentration of elements, independent
of the process of the growth of grapes and their
manipulation into wine.  Could not the same
science and power gather the original elements
of man's body and, by a chemical, cohesive,
and attractive power, cause atom to cohere
and unite with atom, part with part; bone
unite with its bone, and sinews come upon
them, and they be covered with flesh and skin,
and stand up, as Ezekiel saw them, "a living
army?" If one can be accomplished by a su-
perior chemistry, why not the other?  Or, in
Scriptural terms, "I wi[-]l open your graves,
and cause  you to come up out of your graves.
*	*	*	* 	And ye shall know that
I AM THE LORD. *	*	*	And
shall put my Spirit in you, and ye shall live,
and I shall place  you in your own land; then
shall ye know that I the Lord have spoken it,
and performed it, saith the Lord." Ezek. xxxii,
12-14. But why should we feel ourselves
called upon to answer all the fancied objec-
tions of an assumed philosophy, in many in-
stances false; to solve its incoherent problems,
or unravel its incongruous enigmas? I do not
feel myself called upon to admit that all the
elements composing the human body pass
through all the changes assumed by what is
termed "a worldly-wise philosophy;" nor that
the principal component, constituent parts of
the human body "feed the cow, the sheep and
the goose;" nor do I believe the statement that
"we can trace the same identical matter,
divided and sub-divided."  Who can trace it?
This is mere assertion.  That the blood and
certain gases emanate from the body and
fertilize the earth would not be denied; but that
the component parts of the body do this re-
mains to be proven. If gold, silver and other
metals can be eliminated from the earth, and
other metals by chemical process, why not all
the component parts of the body by the Spirit
and power of God?  Job evidently believed in
the resurrection of his own body in its entirety.
He said, "And though after my skin worms
destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see
God: Whom I shall see for myself, and mine
eyes shall behold, and not another."  Job. xix.
26[-]7. Eaten by worms, he would still be resus-
citated and see his Redeemer with his own eyes.
Jesus says, "I am the resurrection, and the 
life."  John xi. 25. "All that are in the graves--
shall hear his voice, And shall come forth."
John v. 28-9.  Paul says that "God giveth
*	*	to every seed his own body." 1 Cor.
xv. 38.  "And the sea gave up the dead which
were in it; and death and hell delivered up the
dead which were in them." Rev. xx, 13. If
the same body be not resurrected it cannot be a 
resurrection, but a new creation.  The Prophet
Amulek, in the Book of Mormon, is very plain
on this subject; he says, "The spirit and the
body shall be reunited again in its perfect
form: both limb and joint shall be restored to
its proper frame; even as we now are at this
time.	*	*	There shall not so much as
a hair of their heads be lost; but all things shall
be restored to its perfect frame, as it is now, or
in the body." Alma, chap, viii, par. 10. Alma
says, "The soul shall be restored to the body,
and the body to the soul; yea, and every limb
and joint shall be restored to its body: yea, even
a hair of the head shall not be lost, but all
things shall be restored to their proper and
perfect frame."  Alma, chap. xix, par. 7.
Again we read-"Then shall the Jews look
upon me and say, What are these wounds in
thine hands and in thy feet? Then shall they
know that I am the Lord; for I will say unto
them, These wounds are the wounds with
which I was wounded in the house of my
friends." Doc. and Cov., sec. xv, par. 9. See
also Zech. xii, 10, and Rev. 1, 7.  There we see
that Jesus will again shew his wounds, in his
resurrected body, the same body and the same
wounds that he received at his death; his
wounded body.  And again, "For notwith-
standing they die, they also shall rise again a
spiritual body: they who are of a celestial spirit
shall receive the same body which was a natu
ral body; even ye shall receive your bodies,
and  your glory shall be that glory by which
your bodies are quickened." Doc. and Cov.,
sec. vii, par. 6. And then at the final con-
summation we are told that, "All things shall
become new, even the heaven and the earth,
and all the fulness thereof, both men and
beasts, the fowls of the air, and the fishes of the
sea; and not one hair, neither mote, shall be lost,
for it is the workmanship of mine hand."
Doc. and Cov., sec. x. par. 6.
	All revelation gives striking evidence of the
same body, in its entirety, coming forth, not as
a germ, but in its likeness, fulness, form, parts
and personality.
	The above, my dear sir, is respectfully sub-
mitted, in which I hope I have not done in-
justice to our esteemed Sister, Eliza Snow.
		I remain your Brother,
			Very Respectfully,
					JOHN TAYLOR.
Deseret News.


