			LIFE LESSONS.

		By Blanche Beechwood.
						["E. B. Wells" is written in here]
			"And 'twere as vain a thing,
	To ask of nature one perpetual spring,
	As to evade those sad, autumnal hours,
	Or deem thy path of life shall bloom, all flowers"
	The spring of our life may be all beauty,
all gladness all gaiety, we may revel as in
Nature's bowers, in the centre of the garden
of Eden, where the very air is redolent of
happiness ethereal, but were this to be the
"fac simile" of our whole lives, what should
we accomplish worthy of merit? Would
this impart the strength and vigor to the
soul, that a different experience would?
Would it inspire us with a desire to study
ourselves, and search out the remote and
secluded corners of our inner life, and
help to mould our thoughts and aspirations
into a channel of higher intelligence?
	There are lessons to be learned in every
season of our lives, and an experience to
be gained, which only the incidental storms
which burst sometimes upon us, with al-
most crushing force, could ever effectually
rivet in our remembrance. A gentle, sooth-
ing rain may cool and dampen the surface,
but in a moment of time, comparatively, it
is as if it had never been; but when a
furious storm beats upon the earth, it has
left a more lasting impression.
	It is not usually until the autumn winds
begin to blow, and the summer's hey-day
past, we are fully prepared to take up the
subject of living, in its broadest and most
comprehensive sense. The experience of
former years, the bitter heartaches brought
about, it may be through our own folly or
indiscretion, the many changing vicissi-
tudes which occur even in comparative-
ly quiet lives, all have a bearing upon the
mind, and if properly appreciated, strength-
en the character, impart individuality and
fortify us against the more intense and
rude blasts of the winter of our years.
	Do we comprehend in the smallest de-
gree the purposes of God in our creation?
Do we seek to inform ourselves thoroughly
on all subjects which pertain to life and ex-
istence here? Do we consider that we are
actors in a great drama and do we strive to
render ourselves creditably in the part we
are performing—and adapt ourselves to the
time, to our fellow laborers and all the
paraphernalia with which the great stage
is endowed. If the great Author had no
ultimate object in view in giving us an ex-
istence here, then we might be excusable in
flitting from flower to flower, or wasting
precious time and throwing away opportu-
nities for improvement; or satisfy ourselves
railing against Fate, or sit idly waiting for
Providence.
	Beings endowed with superior powers
could never have been created to live a few
short years and then pass away leaving no
record of an individual existence. The
Savior said "By their fruits ye shall know
them." It is the opinion of many who are
wise and learned that woman's mission up-
on the earth, is maternity, with its minor
details, its accompanying cares and anxie-
ties, and needful exigencies; that these fill
the measure of her creation; and when this
is done, she should with becoming matronly
dignity, retire from the sphere of active life
and gracefully welcome old age.
	That motherhood brings into a woman's
life a richness, zest and tone that nothing
else ever can, I gladly grant you, but that her
usefulness ends there, or that she has no
other individual interests to serve I cannot
so readily concede.

[column 2]
	She has lived one life—and now she may
live another; not a better life, not perhaps
even so pleasing a one; not one that will
bring into play those tender and affectional
qualities which characterize the life of a
true mother, while her little ones cluster
around her heart and home, but still an ac-
tive practical life, which will develop in her
to the best advantage the experiences of the
past that will assist and benefit those who
are to follow in her footsteps. There is
practical work to do, a testimony to bear.
Let us take heed we do so faithfully.
	S. L. City, Sept. 29th, 1875.


