HOME AFFAIRS.

	A. BRUCE Taylor, son of Hon. John Taylor,
left this city on Monday morning, Sept. 20th,
for Ann Arbor, Michigan. He goes to study
law at the Michigan University. May success
attend his labors.

	MR. CHARLES Vivian, a character singer of
some celebrity, has been giving entertainments
recently in this city, assisted by Madame Reif-
farth who sang very creditably, especially the
aria from "Il Trovatore." Professor Hoseman
accompanied on the piano.

	PRESIDENT WELLS and the party who trav-
eled South with him, are expected to return on
the fourth, or fifth, of this month. They have 
had a pleasant journey thus far, the most beau-
tiful weather, and in all the settlements where
they have visited, the brethren and sisters have
received them most cordially, and manifested
the utmost interest in their mission and labors.

	ELDER JOSEPH F. Smith, with the company
of Saints who left Liverpool Sept. 15th, reached
New York Sunday, Sept. 26th, and Elder J. F.
Smith and F. M. Lyman left that city for Salt
Lake on Monday morning, the 27th, and will
probably arrive here this evening. The compa-
ny will probably reach here the fifth or sixth
of this month.

	TWO DAYS' meetings were held in Provo Sat-
urday and Sunday, President Young and Elder
George Q. Cannon being present; an excellent
spirit prevailed, the people being fully awake
to the reformation. At the same time, Elder


John Taylor presided over a two days' meetings
at South Cottonwood, where the spirit of re-
formation was also aroused.

	QUITE A number of serious accidents, etc.,
have occurred during the last few days; the
most deplorable circumstance being the suicide
of Elizabeth Henroid, wife of Gustave Henroid
of Nephi. From the evidence given at the in-
quest she is supposed to have been temporarily
insane. She leaves seven children, the young-
est only thirteen months old.

	WE HAVE received R.S. Reports from San-
taquin, Fountain Green, Manti and North Og-
den, which we are unable to publish in this
issue for want of space. We have also two
poems, one from North Ogden and one from
Lake Point, both possessing some merit, and
giving indications of inherent or latent genius.
We would advise both these young ladies to
cultivate their talents in this direction and not
be discouraged. It only requires care, patience
and perseverance where there is a taste for lit-
erary pursuits and genuine capital to work
upon.
	WE HAVE just received an interesting letter
from Dr. Mary J. Safford Blake of Boston,
who stopped two or three days in this city
about the middle of July, while "en route" for
the Pacific Coast. This lady is greatly inter-
ested in the Hygienic Dress Reform, believing
it to be essential to the health and physical de-
velopment of woman as well as the higher ele-
vation of character that some change be intro-
duced; also that extravagance, such as is at
present practised in the world, is ruinous to any
people or nation. She says she regrets, since
her return to Boston, that she did not make an
effort to address the ladies of Salt Lake on this
subject. The Dr. is a lady of culture and re-
finement, has traveled extensively in foreign
countries, and made the best possible use of her
opportunities. She has gained, as a physician
and surgeon, a name and reputation of which
she may justly be proud. One great charm she
possesses is her unassuming manner, although
so thoroughly accomplished, and having all the
grace and polish society and travel give.

	LIEUT. WILLARD Young, ere his recent return
to the East, was the favored recipient of a beau-
tiful testimonial of love and tender regards,
offered in the form of a social surprise party.
His sisters projected and arranged the affair;
which, though in nowise sumptuous, was in all
respects an entire success. By suggestion of
their father, President Young, the occasion
was, with but two or three exceptions, exclu-
clusively a family gathering, or to be still more
explicit, a meeting of his sons and daughters,
sons-in-law and daughters-in-law. At seven
o'clock supper was served, and President Young,
with Elders John Taylor and George Q. Can-
non, sat down surrounded by his numerous
children. Later in the evening music and
dancing were introduced. But withal there
was no boisterous merriment, no loud laughter,
no show of extravagance in any form. Not
one of the many sisters appeared in costly
apparel, though each one was neatly and care-
fully attired. A sweet peace and holy serenity
such as heavenly angels may delight to inhale
brooded over the scene; and so free was the
whole from ostentatious display, envy or strife
of any description, that the plainest, humblest
person might have felt perfectly at ease in par-
ticipating. Surely no family among the Lat-
ter-day Saints would receive ought but benefit
by copying such a meeting. And will not that
evening's entertainment be ever gratefully re-
tained in the memory of the young hero in
whose honor it was given?

	Lieut. Willard Young has been temporarily
assigned to duty near New York City, and left
Salt Lake to fill the appointment, on Monday
morning, Sept. 20th. May prosperity and bless-
ings attend him, and may he wear his laurels
nobly gained with true grace and dignity is the
sincere prayer of his friends.

	MADAME OCTAVIA Walton Le Vert, who
spent a short time in this city recently, and
gave an entertainment here in selections from
her own writings, is, by birth, education and
attainments, one of the most distinguished
ladies now living. It is said no other American
lady ever received the attention, the perfect
ovation, which characterized her visits to Eng-
land. She speaks with such remarkable ease
and fluency so many different languages, that
she easily conveys her wonderful knowledge of
books, travel, and of celebrated people with
whom she has been associated. It is useless to
attempt to give an idea of her in a few lines
here, for she would form a subject for volumes
to be written; but her life has been such an one
as few ever realize, and through it all she has
appreciated her blessings and preserved her af-
fections pure as the fountains of a young heart.
Indeed, it is difficult to realize she is no longer
young, there is such a charm and fascination
in her society. She was an intimate friend of
Washington Irving, having made the acquaint-
ance of that extraordinary man when a very
young girl. You may form some idea of her
merits and attainments from the expression of
his sentiments, which are these: "She is such
a woman as occurs but once in the course of an
empire." Henry Clay who was her warm
friend and admirer said: "She has a tongue that
never spoke evil of any one." These few words
speak louder in her praise than the adulation
of the multitudes.
	Her grandfather, Gen. Goorge Walton, was
one of the signers of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence, a member of the first Congress, Gov-
ernor of Georgia, and a Judge of the Supreme
Court; he married the daughter of an English
nobleman, to whom the crown had granted
large estates in the colonies. Her father was
Secretary of state under Gen. Jackson, and suc-
ceeded him as Governor of Florida; he located
the capital of that state, and permitted his
daughter Octavia to give it a name; she chose
Tallahassee which signifies "beautiful land" in
deference to the Indians with whom she was a
great favorite, and, on account of many inter-
cessions in their behalf, they called her "the
white dove of peace."
	Among her many dear friends were La Fay-
ette, whom she knew when a child, Kossuth
Frederika Bremer, Mary Howitt, Mrs. Gros-
land, Countess Montiji and Lady Emeline
Wortley. Her book "Souvenirs of Travel" is
written in a style peculiarly characteristic of
her ardent and enthusiastic nature and genius;
it surpasses in its grand and glowing picturings
and delineations any book of foreign travels we
have ever seen.
	Madame Le Vert will probably stop here
again a few days on her return from San Fran-
cisco as she intends writing another book soon,
including a chapter on Salt Lake and its peo-
ple, which she says shall be entirely free from
prejudice. Her book is to be entitled, "The
Wonders of the Western World."


