	R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Co-operative Retrenchment Association,
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Sept. 11th, 1875, was one in which
all present manifested the utmost interest.
The Spirit of God seemed to pervade every
heart. President Mrs. M. I. Horne made
the opening remarks, in a spirit and with a 
feeling calculated to impress all present with
her sincerity and earnestness in the work
commenced among the sisters. She an-
nounced to the assembly Madame Le Vert
—who arose and spoke to them; expressing
herself pleased to meet with them; also
that she had been gratified in meeting, in
Salt Lake City, so many intelligent and 
charming ladies, and she had never in all
her travels, seen such devotion and sincer-
ity to religion, as she had seen among the
ladies in Utah; that she had also found them
uniformly charitable and benevolent, and
she said "When I am far away in my home
on the shores of Mexico, I shall ever think
of the ladies of Salt Lake with pleasure."
She closed her remarks by saying, "May
God bless you as I am sure that He will."
Mrs. Jones, Mrs. Hannah T King, Mrs. E.
S. Barney, Mrs. M. I. Horne and Br. Camp
each made remarks of an interesting and
instructive character, in regard to the Fall
of Babylon, the HOME INDUSTRIES, the 
Reformation, and various other subjects.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Sept. 18th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT: 
	A short synopsis of the Annual Meeting
of the 19th Ward R. S., held at the Ward
Hall, Aug. 18th. The house was nearly filled
by the Sisters of the Ward. Bishop A. H.
Raleigh, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne
and Mrs. M. P. Young, were present. After
the usual exercises of singing and prayer,
the minutes of previous meeting and the
three quarterly reports were read. The
three reports combined show the following
result:
Donations in Provisions............ $ 50 22
	"	" Merchandise......... 53 70
	"	" Labor..................... 10 00
		Total........................... 122 02
Disbursements to the poor.......... 121 69
		Remaining................... 1 23

[Column 2]
Cash donations............................ 38 70
For the loan of Temple Clothes...	15 00
Made by exchanges.....................	11 00
Interest on money loaned.............	 6 00
		Total.............................	70 80
Disbursed Cash............................	87 60
	Twenty-four yards of linsey and twenty-
eight and one-half yards of carpeting have
been made by the society, and two suits of
temple clothes and ten pairs of garments for
the Indians, in the nine months intervening
since our last annual meeting. President
Mrs. A. A. Pratt then said she was glad to
see so many there that did not usually at-
tend, for it must be pleasant for those who
donated to know what was done with the 
means; she would not make more remarks as
she wished to hear from others. Bishop
Raleigh gave an interesting discourse on 
the duties of women as Latter-day Saints,
and especially as wives, mothers and house-
keepers. Miss E. R. Snow said that she 
knew we were weak, frail creatures, and as
an ancient apostle said, "subject to vanity,"
but that we should not be discouraged. The
fruits of the gospel were charity, long-suf-
fering, joy and peace, but other spirits had
crept into our hearts. Our Heavenly Father
accepts of no compromise. He gives us
law and we must live up to it. We must
let Rabylon go; as he said to ancient Israel,
Choose ye this day whom ye will serve.
He has given us another chance. Let us 
awake; we have all been asleep. Let us
put on the whole armor of God. We are
not called to be judges in Israel, but Saviors
and helpmeets to do good. Have we walked
in the straight and narrow path? I think
not. We don't know each other by our
dress or looks from those in Babylon. In
Kirtland we could tell a stranger or an apos-
tate. We have got to lay off Babylon.
Pres. Young has said that he would organ-
ize the United Order here in Salt Lake city
and did not want any one to enter who was
not willing to dispense with everything that
was superfluous. Said as a community all
were together, but here they would diverge
and get so far apart they would not know
what they were doing. The priesthood is 
not going to say what we shall do. It is a 
choosing time and we should do the choosing
ourselves. Here is a mission for the sisters;
all virtuous women should be members of
the Relief Society. We have been slaves
to fashion, but must be so no more; we 
must be self-sustaining. Let the sisters
think what they can wear that is Zion made.
Said there was a sister coming from Eng-
land who can spin the silk, and machinery
was being brought to weave it. The sisters
can do a great deal about getting out the
mulberry trees. Solomon, it is said, built
the temple, but it was not so much by his 
work, it was by his influence. We must be
prayerful and humble ourselves so that God
may not have to humble us. I want my
feelings absorbed in Zion. I don't call in 
question am I able? I ask the Lord to give
me strength to do what is required of me,
but I do not wait for the strength to come
before I make the effort, we must start then 
he will help us. We want a determination
as strong as the everlasting hills, to do the 
will of God. Let us be like the holy women
of old who adorned themselves but it was
not the outward adorning of apparel. I
hope that each one of us will be numbered
with those who have oil in their lamps and
attain to a fulness in the eternal worlds.
	Mrs. M.I. Horne. I feel that the time
has been well spent and that it would be
well for us to educate ourselves in what we
have just heard; we have a great deal to do 
to qualify ourselves for the station we are
seeking to fill. If we have been extrava-

[Column 3]
gant let us learn to be economical. Let us
arouse ourselves and prepare for those things
that are coming upon us. Four or five
years ago Pres. Young called on us to estab-
lish retrenchment, and I think this is a pre-
paratory work. There is a great deal be-
fore us to do; making clothing for the In-
dians will be a great labor for us. Tempo-
ral and spiritual go together; when we are 
engaged in our household duties we can
think upon spiritual things. I am thank-
ful I am not rich, for many of those who 
are rich are waning in the faith. It is the 
poor and meek of the earth who are willing
to do what the Lord requires of them. He 
chose a poor, illiterate boy to commence His
work upon the earth in this last dispensa-
tion so that He might educate him Himself.
May it be said to all of us at the last, "Well
done thou good and faithful servant, enter
thou into the joy of thy Lord."
	Bishop Raleigh made a few remarks upon
mothers dressing their little girls as plainly
as they do their boys, etc. Pres. Mrs. A. A.
Pratt remarked that it was late and there
was not time for more to be said; thought
we had had a great deal of good instruction
and hoped we would profit by it
	Meeting closed with singing. Prayer by
Bishop Raleigh.
	With many earnest wishes for the success
of your valuable paper, and for the welfare
and upbuilding of Zion, I remain respect-
fully your sister in the Gospel,
