			KINDERGARTEN GIFTS.
	The first Gift (for the youngest children)
consists of six soft balls, over-wrought with
worsted and representing the three primary
and three mixed colors. The aim of this
first occupation is to teach the children to
distinguish between the right and the left
hand, to teach direction (right and left, up
and down); to train the eye, exercise hands,
and feet, and to name the various colors.
	The second Gift consists of a sphere, a
cube, and a cylinder, the object being to
teach form, and to direct the child's atten-
tion to similarity and dissimilarity between
objects.
	The third Gift is a large cube, divided in-
to eight small cubes, of equal size, to illus-
trate form and number, and to give the first
idea of fractions.
	The fourth Gift is a large cube, divided in-
to eight oblong, useful in teaching the child
difference in regard to length breadth and
and height, etc; and enabling him to invent a
greater variety of forms the net-work of
lines on the table before him being a con-
stant guide to their construction.
	The fifth Gift consists of thirty-nine
pieces, twenty-one whole, six half, and
twelve quarter-cubes, forming altogether one
large cube.  In addition to horizontal and
perpendicular lines, this gift introduces the
oblique or slanting line. Acquaintance is
thus made with the triangle, and is used
with children from five to six years old.
	The sixth Gift is another large cube, but
consisting of doubly-divided oblongs. This,
as will be seen, is a complement to the
fourth gift, as the fith was to the third.
	The seventh Gift consists of quadrangular
and triangular tablets of polished wood. In
the six previous gifts the child had to do
with solids. By the tablets plane surfaces
are represented, which are in turn followedby straight lines (wooden staffs) in the
eighth gift, and curved lines (rings and
half-rings of wire) in the ninth gift.
	The multiplication table can be practi-
cally taught by means of the eighth Gift, as
well as the letters of the alphabet; while the
rings of the ninth Gift, like the sticks of the
eighth, serve as an introduction to drawing,
and prepare the child for the employment,
of the drawing slates and paper, which con-
stitute the tenth gift. Even young child-
ren advance rapidly in the art of drawing
by this process of evolution, and combining
the first elements of form. The slates and
the paper are ruled in squares.
	The eleventh and twelfth Gifts consist of
material for perforating and embroidering.
In orderly sequence the child has now (al-
beit unwittingly) become familiar with cu-
bic, square (or plane), linear or spherical
proportions. With the perforating paper
and pricking-needle he is brought to the
point. Steadiness of eye and hand result
from this occupation, thus preparing the pu-
pil for various kinds of manual performan-
ces in practical life.
	The thirteenth Gift: Material for cut-
ting paper and mounting pieces to produce
figures and forms. Squares of paper are so
folded and cut as to form figures. Scissors,
rounded at their ends, are here employed


and so ingeniously turned to account as to
produce very gratifying results.
	The fourteenth Gift is material for braid-
ing or weaving with parti-colored strips.
This occupation develops the use of both
hands. The sense of beauty and apprecia-
tion of number and symmetry are nourished,
and the inventive powers of both teacher
and pupil constantly stimulated. Paper,
leather, ribbon, straw and other materials
may be used for braiding. Strips of differ-
ent widths can be used and a variety of
patterns produced.
	The fifteenth, sixteenth and seventeenth
Gifts consist of interlacing and jointed slats,
and paper for intertwining, wherewith geom-
etrical and fancy figures, capital letters, ang-
les, etc., are made. The main object of this
occupation is to accustom the child to a
clean, neat and correct performance of his
work. The paper strips for intertwining,
which constitute the seventeenth gift; are to
be prepared by the pupils themselves and de-
mand a considerable amount of manual dex-
terity.
	The eighteenth Gift is material for paper-
folding. This exercise has been called "a
compendium of elementary mathematics,"
lines, angles, figures, and forms appearing
in almost endless variety. Beside this, it is
preparatory to all plastic work, and gives
abundant scope for the inventive fac-
ulty of the child. Among the objects that
can easily be produced, Eroebel's manual
mentions: A tablecloth with four hanging
corners, a bird, a sail boat, a canoe, a salt-
cellar, a kite, a wind-mill, a pair of boots,
a flower-pot, a chest of drawers, etc.
	The nineteenth Gift is material for peas-
work, pieces of wire of the thickness of a
hair-pin, pointed at the ends, being inserted
in soaked peas. With these simple materi-
als a great variety of skeleton figures and
objects are formed, the peas serving as cor-
ners, and the wire as edges. Columns,
prisms, pyramids and articles of household
furniture are readily constructed by this gift,
the qualities of bodies being made palpable
in great distinctness, and the eye developed
for perspective drawing.
	The twentieth Gift is material for model-
ing, in bees' wax, clay, putty, or other plia-
ble substance; and this is done with a small
wooden knife on a smooth light board. The
use of this, although the last gift in Froe-
bel's method, is so self-apparent as to re-
quire hardly passing notice. The child is
always "at home" in the wet sand, in the
dirt and in the snow; kneading, house-build-
ing, house-keeping, making forts, figures
of man and beast, and even with its bread
crumbs making balls. In a word, it has
been well remraked that most children are
born sculptors.
	Reviewing, we find that the material used
in the occupations of the Kindergarten pro-
gress form the solid or whole, in gradual
steps to its parts, until it arrives at the im-
age upon the plane, and its conditions as to
line and point. The child is inducted into
the laws governing color; modeling; and in
boring, piercing, measuring, cutting, etc., a
foundation is laid for the after-work of the
artisan and artist—terms which, as we know,
were largely synonomous in the past, when
art was most successfuly cultivated.
	Froebel shared the lot of all great and wise
inventors, having been driven from place
to place in his own country, "with an um-
brella for his bed-room and a knapsack for
his pillow." -But the voices of nature and
revelation, especially in the great matter of
educating the young, are finding new listen-
ers and interpreters, and the ideas of Pesta-
lozzi and Froebel are prevailing to-day, in
one form or another, in almost every school.
house and seminary throughout Europe and
our own land.
	The medical profession recommended the
Kindergarten, and many of the most en-
lightened and philanthropic are giving the
subject their serious consideration. I may
instance, in conclusion, the recent action of
the Rhode Island State Medical Society,
which, among its twelve resolutions—after
stating its belief that, in the haste for
merely intellectual culture, the nervous sys-
tem is unduly developed and overtaxed to
the detriment of other portions, "thus giv-
ing rise to a long train of ills, and produc-
ing an unsymmetrical and distorted organ-
ization in the young"—it resolved:
	1st.—"That physical culture is of primary
importance, that gymnastic exercise should
be made a part of our school system; and
	2d.—That the Kindergarten system should
be engrafted upon our public school system."
