			GENERAL.

	Senator Morton recently delivered a 
speech at Pittsburg, Penn., on the financial
problem......Judge Harrison died of apo-
plexy at Denver......Two trapeze perform-
ers in New York fell while exhibiting and
are, it is believed seriously injured......Cali-
fornia celebrated the twenty-fifth anniver-
sary of her admission to the Union, Sept.
9th......The American Institute of Archi-
tects will hold their ninth annual conven-
tion in Baltimore for three days commen-
cing Nov. 17th......Prof. Baird the U. S.
Fish commissioner is making an exact coun-
terpart in plaster of paris of every species
of fish, for the Centennial Exhibition......
The Kanzas Central and Black Hills Narrow
Gauge Railroad Company have organized
at Omaha with $100,000......San Francisco
is to build a separate establishment for the 
colored children in her limits as the author-
ities will not allow them in the public
schools......Most of the creditors of Duncan
Shearman & Co. have agreed to the proposi-
tion of a settlement of 33 1/3 per cent......It
[column 2]
has been suggested that every theatre in
America and Great Britain in Apr. 1876,
give a performance for the benefit of the 
Shakesperian Fund.........Several hundred
boxes of a certain size, have been mnnufac-
tured by Chinese at Sacramento to convey
home to China the bodies of Celestials who
die in the United States......Forest fires
have been raging lately near Massena, N.
Y., destroying large tracts of timber and
fields of grain......The Yellow fever is again
prevailing in Mississippi and Florida......
The funeral of the late Judge Lewis Wood-
ruff of the United States Court, was held at
Collegiate Church, Fifth Avenue on the 11th
of Sept. Rev Dr. Ormiston delivered the
oration......The Palace Hotel, San Francisco,
opens to-day, October 1st, the inaugural cer-
emonies comprise a banquet and reception.
			PERSONAL.
	Edwin Booth is recovering very slowly;
it is said he will have to cancel some engage-
ments......Daniel Webster's home at Mans
field Mass. was burned on the 8th of Sept.
......The Earl of Huntington is dead......
Cardinal McCloskey will take the title of 
"The Church of Santi Marie Supre Miner-
vam.........Florence Marryatt (Mrs. Ross
Church) editor of the "London Society, is
about to make her debut on the public stage.
......Mr. Robert Dale Owen's health is im-
proving......Peter Cooper was the designer
of the first locomotive ever turned out up-
on this continent, and the first to roll
wrought iron beams for fire-proof buildings.
......Capt. Lakebirch recently celebrated his
109th, birthday at his residence in New 
York City.....Max Muller has a new vol-
ume in press on the science of language......
The Pope's health has so much improved
that he celebrated mass lately in the Sis-
tine Chapel......The Prince of Wales, dur-
ing his stay in India will be invested with
the Grand Cross of the Star of India.
			FOREIGN.
	A severe hurricane continuing two days
occurred recently, causing serious damage
to vessels at Santiago de Cuba and Celen-
fungoes.....There was a terrific gale on the 
12th of Sept. in the Mediteranean and on 
the coasts, railways in some places were
flooded and traffic interrupted, many hous-
es were destroyed......A money crisis is 
thought to be impending in the Prussian
Government......In Paris recently, the di-
rectress of a female industrial school was
fined 100 frances and imprisoned for three
months for ill-treating the children.....The
Khedive of Egypt has sent 3 men-of-war
to the Egyptian coast near Abyssinia, to
punish the blacks invading Egyptian Terri-
tory......Sir Edmond Ryan, Vice Chancelor
of the University of London, died on the
25th of August aged 80 years......There is a 
general depression in the European money
markets, owing to dull trade and fears of
political complications......A great fire oc-
curred at Paderbom, Prussia on the 12th of
Sept; 100 buildings were destroyed and 500
families made homeless.....The Prince of 
Wales expects to spend Christmas day in 
Madras, India. The reception tendered him
will be of surpassing magnificence.


AN elderly gentleman returning home
from church, began to extol the merits of
the sermon to his son. Said he:—"Jack,
I have heard one of the most delightful
sermons ever delivered before a Christian
society. It carried me to the gate of heav-
en." "Why didn't you dodge in?" replied
Jack; "You will never have another such
chance."


