WOMAN'S RECORD.

	IN Milan at the present time, there are
said to be three hundred American girls,
studying for the lyric stage.
	MISS Amely Boelte, author of "Woman's
Labor and Woman's Mission," is now pre-
paring the fourth edition of her book
for publication.
	EX QUEEN Isabella resides in France at
Trouville, with her three daughters. When
they appear in their carriage in public, they
display the French and Spanish flags, wav-
ing side by side.

	A YOUNG Jewess named Franklin Rosa
Rubenstein who gave a course of lectures on
Science two years ago has recently received
the degree of Dr. of Philosophy from the
University of Leipsic.

	MISS GRACE Stuart made her "debut" as
an actress at Union Square Theatre New
York Monday evening August 23rd. She
is the grand-daughter of Prof. Moses Stuart
of Andover, Mass.
MISS Hannah De Rothschild has present-
ed 2,000 lbs. to the National Life Boat Insti-
tution, to establish a life boat station, in
memory of Baron Mayer De Rothschild, her
father.

	MISS Mary Seelye formerly of Cleveland,
Ohio, died recently at Mussoorie, India,
when she had just successfully entered upon
a life of usefulness. She was three years in
Calcutta as a resident physician, under the
care of the "American Woman's Union Mis-
sion." She was much beloved among the
Hindoos and her influence was most power-
ful in favor of higher development. She
was only twenty-nine years of age.


When Hayden heard his great master
piece, "The Creation," performed for the
last time, which was the fruit of nine years
toil, (during which labor, he says, before I
sat down to the instrument I prayed God
with earnestness that he would enable me
to praise him worthily,) at the words "Let
there be light and there was light," when all
the instruments were united in one full
burst of gorgeous harmony, emotion seemed
to shake the whole frame of the aged man.
His pale face crimsoned; his bosom heaved
convulsively, his eyes streaming with tears,
and lifting up towards heaven his trembling
hands, he exclaimed, "not unto me, not
unto me, but unto Thy name be all the 
glory."


