HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

 Waffles.-One quart of flour, one pint of sour
milk, one teaspoonful of soda, four eggs, a piece of
butter the size of a large egg, and a little salt. 
Bake in waffle irons. Sour cream and less butter
improves them.

 To Scramble Eggs.-Break 12 eggs into a bowl
add a tablespoonful of salt, beat them for a min-
ute or two, put a lump of butter as large as an
egg in a farina boiler, or put a tin saucepan into
a skillet partly filled with water, as a substitute for
a farina boiler, pour in the eggs and stir constantly
until they are cooked. They should not be too
moist not too dry. Serve in a hot dish with or
without buttered toast underneath them. Anoth-
er recipe says: - Have a spider hot and buttered;
break the eggs into a dish being careful not to 
break the yolks: slip them into the spider, add a 
very little salt, with butter the size of a nutmeg
for a half  dozen eggs or three tablespoonfuls of 
cream. When the eggs begin to whiten, stir 
carefully from the bottom until cooked to suit.
The yelks and whites should be sparated, though 
stirred together.
	Omelette.-Take six eggs, beat the whites and 
yelks separately, beat in with the yelks a table-
spoonful of cold water and a teaspoonful of salt; 
have ready your omelette pan (or skillet) hot, with 
a tablespoonful of butter in it; beat the whites and 
yelks together and pour in. During the frying 
move the pan continually to and fro, so that what 
is below may come to the top again. When the 
omelette is nicely browned on the bottom, fold it
over with a cake turner, slip it on a hot plate and 
eat immediately. Soyer says an omelette pan
should be free from damp.  He puts it on the
fire with a little butter to get hot, removes it, and 
and wipes with a dry cloth before putting in the 
eggs.


THE brave only know how to forgive; it
is the most refined and generous pitch of
virtue human nature can arrive at. Cowards 
have done good and kind actions-cowards
have fought, nay, sometimes even con-
quered; but a coward never forgave. It is
not his nature; the power of doing it, flows 
only from strength and greatness of soul,
conscious of its own force and security, and 
above the little temptations of resenting
every fruitless attempt to interrupt its hap-
piness.-Sterne.


