CORRESPONDENCE.
				——
		FRANKLIN, Oneida Co., Idaho, 
				   December 10, 1872. 	
MISS L. L. GREENE:—
	I left Salt Lake City, November 2nd,
and arrived at Box Elder station in safety,
had a very pleasant trip. There I took
passage on the Utah Northern. When I got to 
Hampton’s Station, the terminus, in compny
with some friends I stepped on to the
engine and ran on to the end of the track,
about four miles; when passing some very
deep fills, sitting as I did where I could see
all the danger, on hearing the man at the
Engine say he had never run over that road
before, all at once my blood seemed to stop
in its course, I felt my heart stop its beat-
ing; I hardly knew where I was. But in a
few minutes I saw we were all safe on level
ground, which made all right again. There
we saw men laying ties and rails; as I stood
looking at those willing hands at that great
work, I said in my heart, “what could this
people do if they could be let alone!”
	We stepped on to our swift beast, and ran
back to the station, found the coach in wait-
ing, were soon seated and off for Logan,
where we arrived in safety. When I saw how
far I had come in, in so short a time, I
felt to thank the Lord for his kindness in
helping this people to build the Rail-
road. And when I arrived in this far off
northern clime and found all my children
and friends well and prospering I felt more
than thankful. I am stopping at present at
my son-in-law’s, A. Stolker, who is now, in
company with Bishop Lorenzo Hatch, at
Boise City, the Capital of this Territory,
attending the legislature, of which they are
members. .I have seen letters from them;
they speak well of the people of that place,
but say they had a hard time in getting
there. Were way laied by robbers and
commanded to stop, but the driver on the
coach put whip to his horses and was soon
out of their reach. Besides, the coach was
upset in going down a very steep hill, but
happily there were none severely hurt.
	Well, I find good Saints in this land. The
men are alive to the calls of the Bishops to
work on the Railroad, the sisters to looking
after the poor.
	I am well and feel first rate in spirits.
I expect to spend the winter in this north-
ern country. We have had some very cold
weather, but it is fine now. I have not for-
gotten you nor your labors; may the Lord
bless you in the same.
