WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿			  For the Exponent.
		KATIE'S BIRTHDAY PRESENT.
				     ——
	Yesterday Katie was eleven years old.
As father was leaving the breakfast table to
go to his office he said to her, “Put on your
hat and cloak, Katie, and walk up town with
me, and we’ll see if we can’t find a bird and
cage that will do for you to bring home as a
'Birthday Present’.” Pleased beyond
measure, Katie did as directed, and half an
hour afterward, came home with a lovely
Goldfinch in a perfect palace of a cage.
	“Isn’t Papa good?” said the young lady,
as she proceeded to hang her new pet in
the parlor window.
	But all the remainder of the morning
Katie seemed troubled. She supplied her
bird plentifully with food and water, and
every few minutes she would go to it, as it
hopped about from one side to the other of
its magnificent prison, and putting her lips
close to the bars, say somthing in a half
whisper, which sounded like a tender, pity-
ing mother soothing a fretful child.
	When father came home to dinner, he
asked for Katie, and was surprised, he said,
that she was not at hand to meet him with
her merry prattle, as usual. “How is the
'Birthday Present,’ my little girl?” asked
he as she came silently and thoughtfully to-
ward him. The child’s face crimsoned, as
she put up her mouth for the accustomed
kiss, without speaking.	
	“What is it Katie, doesn’t the Goldfinch
suit you? Would you have preferred a
Canary?” father continued. “Well, no,
dear Papa, I realy am not satisfied with my
'Birthday Present,’ though I ought to be
ashamed to acknowledge it, I know,"
answered Kate demurely. “Not if you
mean it, my frank darling,” answered our
indulgent parent, “let Mat have the Gold-
finch and I will bring you home a Canary
this evening.” “But I don’t want a Canary
Papa! and had rather the Goldfinch were
taken back; for although it is very beauti-
ful, and its singing delightful, I cannot look
at it or listen to its music without feeling as
though I must cry. I don’t want a bird,
Papa; I cannot think it is fair or just or
right, according to the laws of nature and
the statutes of creation, to keep the little
creatures housed up thus, when the broad
firmament and free, wild woods are their
native elements. I should never feel com-
fortable to have one of the little captives in
the house.”
	Thus philosophized our sensitiev hero-
ine, and who shall argue that ! those
girlish reasonings were not correct? Father
did not, but yielding to her childish persua-
sions, he carried the bird and cage back to
the store, and sent his sympathetic daughter
a splendid volume on ornithology instead,
with which she is highly delighted. Papa
thinks Katie will make a fine “Woman’s
Rights” woman, one of these days, and that
she ought to belong to the “Society for the
Prevention of cruelty to Animals.”
						LITTLE SISTER.
S. L. CITY, December 1872.,


A FARMER of Alvarado, Alameda county,
some months since, put in fifty acres of seed
for an experiment in chicory culture. He
went on a visit to the East.		On his return
recently he found that instead of fifty acres
of chicory, he had fifty acres of German
salad, the result of a trifling mistake in
seed.


RECTOR'S daughter (to Sunday scholar)—
"Oh, you have an elder brother; well, how
old is he?"	School-boy—"Dunno, miss, but
he just started o' swearin."


