	CORRESPONDENCE OF MISS SNOW.

			Liverpool, Nov. 19th, 1872.
MY DEAR LULA:—		
	l am now on “terra firma” but so highly
elevated that I almost claim to be filling an
aerial position, being located on the fourth
floor in the “North-Western Hotel,” a
spacious building. The room I occupy, in
company with Mrs. Thompson and Miss
Little, fronts St. George’s Hall, said to be
the largest edifice in the city.
	In my last, I left you with the Falls of
Niagara. I do not recollect anything of
special interest occurring between there and
New York, unless the presence of Hon. Ben
Butler should be so considered. Not having
seen him, I felt considerable interest when
it was announced that he was on the train,
and to my entire satisfaction, he entered
the car in which I was riding, and seated
himself where I had a good view of his
ample phiz. As we arrived at towns by the
way, the citizens no doubt having been ap-
prised of his coming, were out in masses, to
whom he delivered electioneering speeches,
which were listened to with the usual en-
thusiasm of such occasions. For my part, I
feel to respect any man who possesses suffi-
cient independenc of character, in this age
of political bribery, to speak as he thinks—
which I believe Ben Butler does.
	We arrived in New York on Sunday
morning—it was raining, but luckily for us,
the beautiful depot afforded us shelter,
while, after considerable delay, a carriage
(probably the property of some unpopular
infidel) was procured to carry ourselves and
our baggage to St. Nicholas’ Hotel. The
fact of our arrival on the Sabbath was the
cause of delay, this very religious people
have plenty of cabs and hacks to receive
strangers, on other days of the week, which
strongly reminds me of a class of religionists
referred to in New Testament history. I am
now speaking in general terms—there are
very excellent people living in New York,
I know of several although my knowledge
is very limited.
	St. Nicholas’ Hotel is a splendid establish-
ment—it contains 600 rooms and accommo-
dates from ten to eleven hundred occupants.
It is freely ventilated and so warmed with
pipes running in various directions as to
keep an equilibrium of temperature. Water
is conveyed to and from the rooms in pipes,
so that you are not stinted—you can wash
yourself and rinse too, if you choose. The
whole establishment is lighted with gas,
and you can have as much light as you
please; yet I think there is an extra charge
if you keep it burning all night. What I
consider an enormity is the charge of one
dollar per day for fire, however small it may
be; and then the porter graciously expects a
small fee for his condescension in making it
for you. But that is all very well—he is so
obliging and does it so much better than
any one else.
	I stayed three nights in New York—spent
two days in the city and one in visiting
Willard Young at West Point. In company
of President George A. Smith, my brother
and brother Dunford; I went to the office of
the Notary Public, the kind and affable Mr.
None, before whom I solemnly subscribed
to my allegiance to the United States Gov-
ernment, etc., according to due form of law,
and he made out my application which he
promised to send to Washington for my
passport, which I expect to meet in London
on my arrival. In conversation with Mr.
None, brother Smith spoke of his rejection
from the Philadelphia Convention, on
account of his religion, when Mr. N. ex-
claimed emphatically, “How ridiculous!”
he expressed much pleasure on meeting
President Smith, saying he was the first
official of our people with whom he had met.
We then called on the “Consul General of
the German Empire,” Mr. Kosing, where we
met the very gentlemanly Mr. Schleiden,
member of the German Parliament. Both
these gentlemen had visited Salt Lake,
where they made Br. Smith’s acquaintance.
They spoke of their visit in the highest
terms.
	Through the kindness of Br. J. W. Young,
I enjoyed a pleasant turn around Central
Park; and here, amid its shades, fountains,
equestrian statues, etc. etc., I leave you for
the present.
						Eliza R. Snow.


