WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Written for the EXPONENT.
	IMPORTANT EVENTS OF ONE YEAR.
				    ——
		A HOLIDAY SKETCH BY L. L. 
				      —
	It was New Year’s Eve, 1863, and we were
having a regular nice time.  There had
been a shooting match, father was on the
winning side, and was to take supper with
Mr. W., who was to pay for both tickets to
the ball that evening as well. We were all
going to the ball, all but mother and the
little folks, and with those exceptions my
“all,” includes my father, three sisters, a
brother-in-law and myself.
	How clear and bright the hall was, and
how happy every one appeared! It seemed
to me, my sisters had never looked so well
as upon that New Year’s Eve, and they
enjoyed themselves so much and were so
unconscious of self, that I delighted in
watching them. It was not strange, either,
that I should very much admire the taste of
an intelligent lady, who remarked to me,
that the figure of my sister Maud was really
the finest in the room. I wonder if Mr. A.
remembers how I danced a reel with him
that evening? He was so awkward and un-
managable that, beginning at the head of
the set, when “down the centre” came for
us, I marched him to the foot and there
remained, and he still imagines, for ought I
know, that we went through the whole change
as did the others. My sister Eva, who was
dancing in the same set, laughed so much
that I almost became plagued over it. The
only unpleasantness that occurred, was that I
had to go home before I wanted to—I was
only fourteen,
	Three hundred and sixty-five days sped
by us, one after another, bringing each its
varying scenes. During that little period
one sister gave to earth a tiny, new inhabit-
ant; Eva was wooed, wen and wedded, and
another sister left us to return no more. In
less than six months time, birth, marriage
and death were all visitants of our family
circle.
	Yet there was no gloom around our fire-
side, as we sat and listened to father’s grave,
or humorous stories; and Maud and I 
repeated dialogues and sung songs and
hymns, on New Year's Eve, 1864.


ABUNDANTLY PROTECTED.—It was one
evening last Summer when a lady who be-
longs on the editorial staff of one of the
leading dailies of New York, had been
detained by office duties until rather a late
hour. Living on the Heights in Brooklyn,
but a short distance from Fulton Ferry, it
was not much of a venture to go home with-
out an escort, and so she started. On the
boat, standing outside enjoying the breeze
after the day’s toil, she perceived a gentle-
man (?) in rather close proximity to where
she was, but said nothing.
	“Are you alone?” said he, as the boat
neared the shore.
	“No, sir,” said the lady; and without
further interruption, when the boat touched,
she stepped off.
	"I thought you were not alone,” said the
fellow, stepping to her side again.
	“I am not,” replied the lady.
	“I don’t see any one. Who is with you?”
	“God Almighty and the angels; I’m never
alone.”	
	“You keep too good company for me,
madame; good night!” and he shot for a
Fulton Avenue car, then nearly a block
away. The heroic woman was permitted
to keep to “the right as the law directs,”
and enjoy that full measure of quiet satisfac-
tion one always feels from keeping good
company.


