HOME AFFAIRS.

	PRESIDENT B. YOUNG and party arrived
safely at St. George, in the early part of last
week, in excellent health, having held meetings
at the principle settlements by the way down,
much to the edification of the Saints.
	AS CHRISTMAS has passed and the merry
New year is again with us, we wish our friends
and patrons a very happy day of it, and many
returns of the season. Damp and disagreeable
as the weather has been during the holiday
week, we are pleased to admit that no one, so
far as we have learned, has allowed this incon-
venience to interfere with their enjoyment.
	ON THE 22nd ult., we received a brief note
from sister Amelia M. Frodsham, of Ogden—
one of the firmest and most faithful and
energetic friends of the EXPONENT—bearing the
melancholy iutelligence that her husband,
brother Frodsham, departed this life on the
morning of the 21st at a quarter past nine. Our
sympathies for the bereaved lady are, if pos-
sible, increased, from the fact that at the time
of the death of her worthy husband, and for
several days previous, she had also a little
daughter lying very seriously ill. That the
child has recovered, and that the family may
be well sustained and comforted, under the
heavy loss which has deprived them of so dear
and true a friend, we sincerely hope.
	JUST NOW we learn, or rather are reminded,
that at the Territorial Fair, held in this city
last October, the first prize on quilts was
awarded to the quilt belonging to the Eighth
Ward Relief Society. That Society received
the prize money offered for the same, but
through some mistake of the reporters, the
honor was given, through the papers, to the
Twentieth Ward Relief Society, which drew
only the second prize on quilts. The Eighth
Ward Society should also have been credited
with the third prize on ottoman covers, which
the papers all omitted, or published wrong. At
fairs nothing unfair should be countenanced;
we therefore take pleasure in rectifying the
mistakes made by the EXPONENT, in common
with other papers, as soon as apprized of them.
A month or two earlier would have been all the
better.
	A TERRIBLE snow-slide occurred in Little
Cottonwood canyon, on Thursday evening last,
December 26th, by which ten teams were car-
ried away from the road and clear over to the
other side of the creek, smashing sleighs and
wagons, killing and maiming animals, and
worst of all, destroying the lives of some eleven
men. It was a fearful catastrophe, and shows
the terrible power of a mass of snow, light and
feathery is it appears when it falls, as it is
hurled from the mountain sides into the
yawning canyon below, This is the greatest loss
of life yet entailed by one of these avalanches
in Utah, and was caused by a large number of
ore-hauling teams being in the path of the
avalanche. But two bodies were recovered up
till Saturday night; one, of a man from Camp
Douglas, named Peter Rahn; the other of Leroy
Dibble, from Erie County, New York. It is ex-
pected that some of the bodies will not be
recovered until Spring, though a large force has
been searching for them


