THE SEX.
			    ——
	THE Grecian ladies counted their age
from their marriage, not their birth.
	FOUR hundred Brooklyn teachers, women,
have petitioned for an increase of salaries.
	JENNY Lind has been singing in the choir
of the American Episcopal Church in Flor-
ence.
	GRACE Greenwood has met with success
in her reading in Colorado.	
	THE story goes that the Empress Carlotta
will recover her health of body, but never
strength of mind.
	MISS Dixon, a Southern lady of admired
skill in penmanship, writes with both hands
simultaneously.
	THE young ladies of the Jackson Presby-
terian Female College have resolved them-
selves into a “Cozy Club.”
	A WOMAN named Mary Tabor has acted
as mate on a Missouri steamboat for two
years, earning forty-five dollars per month.
	FULLER states that Henry VIII, of Eng-
land, gave a woman the whole revenue of a
convent as a reward for making a pudding
which happened to gratify his taste.
	THE wife of Marshal Guebriant acted as
representative for France, and was acknowl-
edge as such, at the court of Ladislas IV.,
King of Poland, in 1646.
	HARRIET Martineau is a confirmed inva-
lid, and sees no visitors at her cottage,
"The Knoll,” at Ambleside, near Lake
Windermere, in England.
	A THOUSAND American girls, for whom
the schools on this side of the water are not
considered good enough, are receiving their
education in France and Italy.
	THE funeral of Fanny Fern took place in
New York, and in accordance with the
wishes of the deseased, was private. The
remains were taken to Boston.
	A REMARKABLE incident is related of a
young girl in Dundee, whose hands and
feet were all amputated in consequence of
embolic gangrene and for whom artificial
hands and feet were specially devised,
which she uses with very little difficulty
and much satisfaction.
	THE Princess Louise of Hesse—Alice of
England--has been chosen first Prsident of the
International Association for the Protection
of the Rights of Women; and the Congress
of Darmstadt, which made this election, has
chosen several English women as corres-
ponding members.
	MADAME Von Goethe, widow of the great
German poet’s only son, recently died at
Weimar, Saxony, very old. During the
lifetime of her father-in-law, she did the
honors of the house, and presided at many a
social gathering marked by the presence of
the most eminent authors and politicians of
the age. Goethe loved her as a daughter,
and admired her writings, and at the time
she edited the Mitternacht “Zeitung,” used
to speak of her as one of the ablest critics of
the age
	THE girls employed by Macullar, Wil-
liams & Parker in their tailoring establish-
ment, Boston, declined to accept their wages
for one week’s work, thinking that the sum
in the aggregate might be acceptable in
consideration of the heavy losses of the firm.
On the other hand, the members of the firm,
solicitous for the welfare of those whose
losses might be small but sufferings great,
told Jennie Collins to send to them any
work girls, and particularly their own, who
might be in need and they would provide
for them.


