CHILDREN’S VOICES.
			       —--
	On the 15th of December, 1872, there was
a sort of Sabbath School exhibition in the
14th Ward Assembly Rooms. Music, sing-
ing and recitations were offered by children
of all sizes, from the “we wean” that gave
its little story in a perpect baby tone, to
adult manhood. There is something so
winsome, so benignly sweet in the voice of
innocence, that the same words spoken or
sung by persons of more mature years seem
to convey a different impression, and to have
a less desirable effect upon the heart. And
on this particular Sabbath it might have
been a fancy, but if so it was a very happy
one—it seemed as though the very voices of
the children had really become like those of
the angels, especially in their singing.
“Children may come to the Savior” and
“Hearts and Homes,” were rendered with
so much pathos that tears, grateful, pleasant
tears might have done honor to the eyes of
a soldier who had been a listener; but
“Music”—
	“There’s music by the fireside,
	“There’s music in the hall;
	“There’s music in the school-room,
	“There’s music for us all;
	"There’s music in the fountain;
	“There’s music in the air;
	“There's music in the true heart,
	“There’s music everywhere:”
How shall the rendering of this immortal
eulogy on the divine art be described !
The very touch of the tiny, child fingers,
upon the keys of the organ sounded as if
softened by the influence of sweet souled
messengers from choirs above!
	The neately arranged little dialogue and
song “What was witnessed in the Heavens?”
was also very chastely and sweetly executed.
	The singing was all delighful, the recita-
tions splendid.	Where order is so well ob-
served, who could ever tire of “children’s
voices?” Let us have more music.


THE seal can be readily tamed, and be-
comes very affectionate. It may be taught
many things, such as shaking hands, bowing
and kissing. The cry of the seal is soft and
flute-like, and resembles certain sounds
common to all languages, “pa pa” or “ma
ma.”


