ANOTHER YEAR.

	A new year commences to-day. Eighteen
hundred and seventy-two is with the past. Its
acts are history. Some of them have been im-
portant ones for the Latter-day Saints. A year
ago to-day dark clouds seemed to hang Iower-
ingly over the people who settled these Moun-
tain Valleys. The gravest charges were made
against the leading men of the Territory, by
bad men, and sworn to by even worse ones; and
in a few days after, President Young was held
a prisoner in his own house, while other prom-
inent men were similarly charged. It looked
to those not sustained by an undying faith that
no power could rescue these servants of God
from the hands of their enemies. But those
who sought their destruction were discomfited,
for that Power which has so long and so often
preserved the Saints, made bare His arm for
their deliverance, yet the unbelieving would
not realize the hand of God in the overthrowing
of those who sought the lives of His servants.
	During that trying period thousands of the
women of Utah longed for a medium through
which they could give utterance to their feel-
ings, thair faith, their devotion to the cause of
truth, and their unwavering hope in the future.
It was during that period that the project of the
Exponent was first thought of, and its publica-
tion talked of by a few interested in the matter;
although it was not until June that the way
seemed clear to fairly usher it into existence.
Now, we commence another year, with the
mutterings of the enemies of truth, and their 
expressed determinations to do all the wicked-
ness that is in their hearts. But the same
Power that has always controlled will control,
and they will be able to accomplish nothing
more than they are permitted to do for working
out the purposes of the Almighty.
	But the women of Utah are deeply interested
in all these movements. Ostensibly any blow
that may be aimed at the Church will be
directed against the men; but can our husbands,
fathers, brothers and sons be made the objects
of calumnious attacks, or even worse, and we
not be participators? And while much that
may be attempted will be done in the alleged
behalf of the “down-trodden women of Utah,”
shall we not fling back the slander to those who
utter it.” And as we honor manhood, andhold


virtue and chastity sacred as life, and love 
liberty as we love existence, shall we not repu- 
diate the wolves in sheeps’ clothimg, that would 
fawn around our young and guileless maidens
that they might destroy them!	
	With the opening of the New Year we ask
the patrons of the Exponent to continue their
labors in its behalf, that its instrumentalty for 
good may be widened and extended; and we
shall endeavor to labor faithfully, with the aid
of our sisters in the same noble object, to make
it what its name imports, An honest exponent
of the views of the women of Utah.


