MISCELLANEOUS. 
			   ——
	A MISSING minister of the gospel is
wanted in Howwood, Scotland. He left his
charge about two months ago, for a holiday
trip to America, and has not returned. A
young lady disappeared at the same time,
but of course this fact has no connection
with his “lighting out.”
	A DOLLY VARDEN PIE:—Take about four
yards of light dough, gather it up in light
flounces, crimp the edges, and fill up with
fruit; then lay on the overskirt, fasten it;
with buttons of dough connected with frills
of the same, and you will have a tasteful
and elegant pie, only you must eat it, not
wear it.
	THE willow that bends to the tempest
often escapes better than the oak which re-
sists it; and so, in great calamities, it some-
times happens that light and frivolous spirits
recover their elasticity and presence of mind
sooner than those of a loftier character.—
“Sir Walter Scott.”
	LIKE flakes of snow that fall unperceived
upon the earth, seemingly unimportant
events of life succeed each other. As the
snow gathers together so are our habits
formed. No single action creates, however
it exhibits man’s character; but as the
tempest hurls the avalanche down the
mountain, so passion may overthrow the
edifice of truth and virtue.
	Dr. Franklin recommends a young man,
in the choice of a wife, to select from a bunch, 
giving as a reason, that when there are many
daughters they improve each other, and
from emulation acquire more accomplish
ments, and know more, and do more, than
a single child spoiled by parental fondness.
This is a comfort to people with large
families.	
	CHISELED FEATURES.—The features may
be common and characterless, but if they are
soft and uncertain, and the spaces around
them ample, they are safe.		But of the
defined forms and scanty quantities let us
beware though, fond mothers call them
“chiseled features” and “regular profiles.”
What is admired as delicate and precise
now, may be too likly to turn out sharp and
mean by-and-by.
	SELF-EXAMINATION. — Few sufficiently
practice the habit of self-examination.
Through life man is liable to error and
requires check, rebuke and counsel. He
should personify hisi own conscience. He
should be his own good spirit, hovering
over himself in moments of passion, temp-
tation and danger, and reminding himself
that he owes a duty to his Maker with which
the opinions and consequences of the world
have nothing to do.
	WOMAN'S DRUDGERY.—The hygienic
system is pre-eminently the cause of woman,
both as respects the preservation of health
and the treatmeut of disease. A simpler
and more wholesome plan would relieve her
of one-half of her present hard toil and
drudgery, while it would promote the health
of her household. At least four-fifths of all
the money expended for medicines and
medical advice, are paid because of the
diseases of women and children. And nine-
tenths of all the care, nursing, night watch-
ing and privation of sleep and rest because
of sick children, are performed and suffered
by women. The Medical Society in New
York, which, on one of its festive occasions,
toasted women in the following words, had
truth, if not poetry, as the basis of the
sentiment:
	“Woman”—God’s best gift to man, and
the chief support of all the doctors.”


