EDITORIAL NOTES.
			     ——
	Heavy floods in Cambridge and vicinity,
England.
	Lady notaries public are the latest
novelty in official life. Terre Haute, Indi-
ana, has got one.
	Murderers and convicts, who have
escaped the penalty of offended laws, con-
tinue to court notoriety, now, as lecturers.
	A singular death occurred in Vernon,
Iowa, a few days ago. A child fell and hurt
its gums, when bleeding commenced at the
place injured, and the child died of it.
	A religion without bigotry, which in-
culcates love, truth and mercy, and whose
believers practice these virtues, is sadly
needed throughout the Eastern States.
	People find it frequently more conve-
nient to see and act wrong than right,
because, while there are numerous wrong
ways there is but one right way to look at
or perform anything.
	A first class mathematician might find
considerable of a problem, and spend some
time in recconing the number and cost of
the disasterous fires which have occurred
within the United States, since the Boston
conflagration.
	A hint to young ladies who design enter-
ing into the house-keeping business might
be gleaned from the example of a wedding
which lately took place, at whcih each guest
paid 25 cents admittance, which was handed
over to the bride as a little start in the
way of “setting up shop.”
	Among the last sayings of Horace
Greeley was “The country is gone; the
Tribune is gone; and I am gone!” While
his last words were: “I know that my Re-
deemer liveth!” These will do to remember
and jot down when making memoranda of
the dying words of eminent men.
	The British Embassador at St. Peters-
burg is reported to have warned Prince
Gortchakoff that if Russian-troops enter the
countries between Khiva and Afghanistan,
England will intervene in support of Afghan-
istan. If this statement be true, a quarrel
between England and Russia, may next be
apprehended.
	ONE OF the questions agitating the country
just now is, whether the people of Louisiana
will control the affairs of that State; or
whether they will be governed by a set of
“carpet-baggers” who have no special inter-
est in the State except to rob it.  The
question is important enough for considera-
tion.
	In the new public school building, No. 5,
Jersey City, New York, which was partially
destroyed by fire on the morning of the 23
of December, were about one hundred and
fifty young ladies, all of whom escaped un-
harmed; and likewise members of the Board
of Education which was in session at the
time. With such good fortune, the loss of
$60,000 need not be complained of.
	A little over a week ago two compositors
skated down the Missouri river from Sioux
City to Omaha, over two hunnred miles;
being some two days making the trip;
[new colum]
which was more fool-hardy than sensible.
Frozen ears for both, with a frozen cheek and
heel for one of them, were the result. If
there is any daring, but foolish thing to be
done, American boys are ready to undertake
it.
	A great curiosity in the form of a stone
has been found by Mr. A. M. Stewart, a
locator of the gravel deposits on the summit
of the Sierra Nevada mountains, in Califor-
nia. This stone is said to be in shape like a
magnifying, glass thick in the centre, and so
hard that the hardest of files tried upon it
produces not even a scratch. Viewed through
a powerful magnifying glass, it shows the
most wonderful rays of light. The owner
believes it to be a rare gem, unknown to
the lapidaries.
	Some time ago, “Woodhull & Claflin’s
Weekly” charged Mrs, Theodore Tilton
with marital infidelity, and Rev. Henry
Ward Beecher as the other guilty party in
the alleged criminality. Mr. Beecher paid
no attention to the charge, nor did Mr. Tilton
up to the present. Now, it is said, he will
publish a denial, although it comes at a
very late hour. Evidently New York
“Society" must have some very hideous-
looking “skeletons” in its cupboards, if they
were exposed to view.
	Among the most terrible disasters of late
occurrence, is recorded the railroad accident
near Carry, Pennsylvania, on the afternoon
of December 24th by which the train, con-
sisting of one passenger car and one baggage
car, the engine and tender, was thrown off
the track; falling a distance of over twenty
feet; the cars were turned directly bottomside
upward, caught fire, and through the fearful
crushing and burning, some twenty souls
were immediately ushered into eternity and
about as many more were dreadfully injured.
But one person out of forty-six who were
on the train, is known to have escaped un-
harmed.
	About three hundred men, women
and children were assembled in the recep-
tion room, up stairs, of the Newberry Baptist
Church, Pennsylvania, on Christmas day,
having a Sunday School Christmas Celebra-
tion; when the floor gave way and the mass
of human beings were precipitated to the
floor beneath. Fourteen were killed out-
right and a large number, more or less
injured. This is one of the most heartrend-
ing occurrences reported of the late holiday;
and should give a text to the bigoted of
other denominations, who forget what the
Savior said concerning the falling of the
tower of Siloam.	
	Train, whose given name is George
Francis, has not reached the White House,
but he has the inside of a New York prison,
charged with publishing an obscene periodi-
cal. But it was not the obscenity in Train’s
publication that roused virtuous New York,
where the most degradingly disgraceful
publications of the age are circulated by
wholesale and are on the stand of almost
every newsvender. It was because he pub-
lished statements concerning prominent
New Yorkers which were hard to meet and
yet could not be passed over in silence. If
New York will rid itself of obscene publica-
[new column]
tions, professional murderers who kill life
ere it has passed from its embryotic condi-
tion, and of its public destroyers of chastity
and innocence, it will be in a better condition
to pronounce judgment upon Train and his
publications than it is at present.
	The Christmas season just passed was
prolific of horrors in the United States.
Destructive fires occurred in many parts of
the country; the upper floor of a Pennsylvania
Baptist church fell in, killing fourteen
persons and injuring nearly fifty more, a
number of them severely; a number of rail-
road accidents occurred, by one of which
some twenty persons were literally roasted
alive through the burning of an overturned
car on which they were, and in addition to
these and other horrors, one of the most
violent snow-storms, accompanied with in-
tense cold, swept over the Eastern, Middle
and Southern States, that has been known
for seventeen years. These are but signs of
the times on which the wise will ponder;
while the unbelieving and the foolish will
not heed the warnings given of an approach-
ing consummation in fulfillment of prophecy.
	The Credit Mobilier is exciting consider-
able interest at present. Speaker Blaine
demanded an investigation into the
charges made against a number of
the members and ex-members of Congress—
Senators and Representatives; the principal
charge being that certain members, Blaine
among the number, were bribed in 1864 by
the Union Pacific Railroad Company’s Credit
Mobilier, to support the measure of that
corporation and vote for the amendments of
1862, to increase the land grant and ex-
change the Government’s first mortgage
on the road for a second one, the first being
allowed to the company. The Chicago
“Evening Post” has the following hit con-
cerning the affair: “Enough has been devel-
oped in the Credit Mobilier examination
to make it desirable to develop more. We
trust the full-sized cat will be let out of the
bag, no matter what Senator she bites, or
what member she scratches, or what editor
she spits upon. So interesting an animal
cannot get her back up too soon.”
	Some time ago Professor Tyndall pro-
posed to test the efficacy of prayer as a
healing medium, by having prayer offered
up in certain wards of an hospital, while
other wards were to be left prayerless; and
if the patients in the wards where prayer
was offered would be restored to health more
quickly than those in the other wards, then
prayer was to be accepted as efficacious in
the healing of dseases. It is needless to
say that Professor Tyndall is an infidel. A
conference of Methodist preachers consid-
ered his proposition, and after some discus-
sion decided that it was blasphemous. Now,
as the Methodist preachers in question,
with the entire denomination, and the
Christian sects generally, repudiate the gift
of healing, or the scriptural mode of healing
the sick by faith and prayer, the question
is an open one, wherein they differ from or
are better than Professor Tyndall? And
whether is the infidelity of the Professor or
the preachers worse, seeing the former
avows his unbelief in the Bible and the
latter profess belief in it?


