	CEDAR CITY, Iron Co., U. T.
	December 12 th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	Our Society was organized the 4th of
June 1868, and since that time has disbursed
nearly $400 for the benefit of the poor, be-
sides donating liberally for the building of a
Temple in St. George and other laudable
undertakings. We have $50 in the Wash-
ington Woolen Factory; $50 in our Co-op.
Store and $50 in the Co-op. sheep herd.
	The sisters with their President—Mrs.
Rachel Whittaker, and her Counselors Mrs.
Annabella Haight and Mrs. Jane Birkbeck
all feel well and willing to assist in every-
thing that is required of them to do good.
At a late meeting, it was moved and unani-
mously carried that the word “Female” be
dropped from the name of the Society.
				ELLEN LUNT, Secretary.

				MENDON, Cache Co.,
					December 8th, 1872
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	I forward a brief report to you of our last
meeting, held on the 5th inst. at which
a vote was taken to omit the word “Female”
from the name of the Society, as suggested,
which, was unanimous. Our Society is in a
[new column]
prosperous condition; we have given to the
poor $44; donated to the meeting house $38;
for public expenses $16; have a $20 share in
the Co-operative Store and $70 in the
treasury.
		ELIZABETH WILLIE, President.
		JANE BAKER Secretary.

		HEBER CITY, Wasatch Co.,
			     December 15th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	The Relief Society of this place was organ-
ized on the 7th day of June, 1869, under the
supervision of Bishop Abraham Hatch. The
following named ladies were chosen as
officers: Mrs. Margaret Muir President;
Mrs. Ann Murdock and Mrs. Mary McMil-
len Counselors; Mrs. Ann Harvey Secretary
and Mrs. Emily Harvey Treasurer.
	At a meeting held the 7th of November
1872, presided over by President Mrs. Mar-
garet Muir, a unanimous vote was taken to
omit, hereafter, the inappropriate word
“Female” in connection with the name of
the Society. The sisters bore testimony to
the truth of the principles of the Gospel
with which we are associated, and Father
Thomson, being present, gave us some im-
pressive remarks relative to tithing. Meet-
ing adjourned for one month and closed with
singing and prayer.
				    ELLEN LEE,
				    MELISSA REYNOLDS.
				   —
			RIVERDALE Weber Co.,
				December 16, 1872.
EDITOR EXPONENT:—
	President F. D. Richards and Bishop L. J.
Herrick held a meeting at this place on the 5th
inst. The school house was well filled and,
among other instructions, President Richards
recommended the organization of a Relief
Society at Riverdale. And calling for an
expression of the feelings of the congrega-
tion upon the subject, a unanimous vote was
cast in favor of a branch Society being
organized. The following named sisters
were then chosen and ordained to fill the
first offices belonging to the Society; Mrs.
Martha Bingham. President; Mrs. Ednah
Stimpson and Mrs. Nancy Bybee Counselors.
As the day was far spent it was decided
that the sisters meet on the following
Wednesday, to complete the organization.
Accordingly, a meeting was held on
Wednesday December 11th, 1872, at which,
President Mrs. M. Bingham presided. Af-
ter singing and prayer, the following named
sisters were chosen and unanimously sus-
tained to fill the under-named offices: Mrs.
Hannah A. Child Secretary; Mrs. Dye,
Treasurer; and sisters Jennette Mitchell,
Martha A. Fife, Mary M. Child, Catharine
Henchliff, Mary Stimpson and Dell Straton
for Visiting Committee.
	Meeting adjourned, prayer by Mrs. Stimp-
son.
				H. L. Child Secretary.

	The subject of Physiology was continued
at the General Retrenchment meeting, held
in the 14 Ward, on Saturday, December 21st
1872. President Mrs. L. Horn being unvoid-
ably absent, the meeting was presided over
by Counselor Mrs. Z. D. Young, who, after
the usual ceremonies, made a few very appro-
priate remarks, followed by Mrs. Margaret P.
Young, Counselor Mrs. Woodruff and others:
Mrs. W. East, believed that, in, as, much
as the wives and daughters of the Saints
had not hitherto been permitted to learn
the nature of the human system and to study
the laws that govern the same, on account
of the labors and duties which they have
been obliged to perform, in connection with
the brethren, for the sustenance of their


families, that if they humble themselves be-
fore the Lord and ask for wisdom concerning
these things that light will be given them.
The Lord is able to quicken our understand-
ings and to teach us those things which we
ought to comprehend for the benefit of our-
selves and our descendants.
	Counselor Mrs. Sararh M. Kimball dwelt
beautifully upon the structure of the spiritual
and physical faculties of human nature. In
childhood and extreme youth, she said, we
enjoy most that which we best comprehend;
the faculties of taste and smelling are, per-
haps, as finely developed in a young child
as in an adult, while other faculties of per-
ception yet remain quite dormant. As we
grow older, the physical form develops, and
so, also, the mental powers expand, ever
reaching forth for something yet beyond
the present. And the most delightful faculty
pertaining to mortality, or immortality, is
faith, that faith which gives us foretaste
and foresight of future and eternal intelli-
gence. Intelligence is happiness—we cannot
enjoy aught, of which we have no under-
standing. Mrs. Watmough made some
very useful explanations upon the formation
of the body, the position of the bones, their
proper treatment and the wisdom exhibited
throughout the entire arrangement of the
same. Remarks suitable to the occasion
were made by sisters Ann Neal, M. A.
Leaver and Eleanor Pratt.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Prayer
by Counselor Mrs. Pheobe Woodruff.


