F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
			  —
	EPHRAIM CITY, Dec. 10th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	At our last monthly meeting, by common
consent, in compliance with Sister Snow’s
suggestion, the word “Female” was dropped
from the name of our Society. We had an
excellent meeting, which indeed we always
do have; our President, Sister S. A. Peter-
son urged the subject of education very
strongly upon the minds of the sisters. She
also gave much good instruction upon the
Word of Wisdom. The Ladies’ Hall, a very
nice two story rock building, is ready for
the shingles; the lower story will be used
for a Co-operative Store.
	AGNESS S. ARMSTRONG, Secretary.
[new column]
	Wanship, Summit co.,
			December 10th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	We are a little band of sisters here, but
though among the least, we do not wish to
be the last in any good word or work.
Although but few in number we feel united
and earnest in our endeavors to do all the
good we can, both by precept and example,
as well as in relieving the needy and com-
forting the distressed. At our last meeting
five new members were voted in. At a re-
cent meeting it was voted unanimously to
drop the word “Female” from the name of
the Society, in accordance with the expressed
wishes of Sister E. R. Snow.
	We value your paper highly and hope it
will continue to vindicate the cause of
“Woman’s Rights” in the truest sense of
the word, and we wish you prosperity and
happiness in your enterprise.
	MRS. MARY REYNOLDS President.
	SARAH S. RICHARDS
	ANN BRIZZEE, Counselors
	SUSAN S. RICHARDS, Secretary.
			   —
	LOGAN, Dec. 6th, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:--
	At our monthly meeting, held in the hall,
November 4th, the word “Female” was
dropped from the name of our Society by a
unanimous vote, according to the suggestion
made by Sister E. R. Snow. President
Mrs. Maughan imparted to us many good
instructions which she had received from
Sister Snow, making our meeting interest-
ing as well as beneficial. Our meetings are
not largely attended but there are always
some from each ward, so that reports are
made of the condition of the poor and none
are allowed to suffer for the necessaries of
life. Some of the wards hold their sewing
meetings regularly. We have not much
means on hand as we always manage to dis-
tribute our quilts and other articles as fast
as we get them made. We have one hun-
dred dollars in the Co-operative, Store the
interest of which helps us a little. At our
last monthly meeting, (the 2nd inst.) the
sisters expressed their determination to
renew their diligence.
	Accept my good wishes for the success of
your interesting paper, which I think is
highly prized by many of our Society.
				L. B. Benson, Secretary.
	
