FLOWERS.
			      ——
	WHO lives to fancy, rarely can be rich, 
who lives to nature never can be poor.
	WALK worthy of your vocation! You have
a noble escutcheon, disgrace it not by folly.
	WHEN you write, or get a friend to write
on your own business or for your own 
advantages, be careful to pay the postage
yourself.
	THE best property a man can be possessed
of, since happiness is the boon for which all
wish to bargain, is a clear conscience and 
a contented mind.	
	A HIGH sense of honor in all things, an 
adherence to truth, delicacy and politeness
are the essential and	distinguished charac-
teristics of a gentleman.
	TRUTH dreads no scrutiny; shields herself 
behind no breastwork of established custom
or of respectable authority, but proudly
stands on her own merits.
	TO an active and an ingenious mind there
is no pursuit more fascinating than the
pursuit of knowledge, no pleasure more ex-
quisite than the discovery of truth.
	LABOR allied with virtue may look up to
heaven and not blush, while all worldly 
dignities, prostituted to vice, will leave 
their owner without a corner of the universe
in which to hide his shame.
	DON'T laugh in company without ex-
plaining why you laugh. There are always
some sensitive ones who will believe them-
selves ridiculed without the slightest occa- 
sion.
	VIRTUE and truth constitute true nobility, 
these can be your’s as well as another’s, you
have only to maintain them. The poorest	
and lowliest can be as truly noble as the
rich and great.
	THERE is more than one reason why "Ye
cannot serve God and mammon;” there is
not time to do both even if both could be
kept in remembrance; who ever heard of a
rich person (“one who trusted in his riches,”)
who could find time to keep holy the Sab-
bath?
	A GOOD action however small should
never be omitted, a kind word, no matter
how simple should never be suppressed. 
One little deed or word, often saves one
from dishonor, sometimes from destruction,
and the actors or speakers are never the
poorer for having given what cost them
nothing.
	IF darkness obscures your way, think of
those whose lives are darker still, and be
comforted; If sunshine and gladness is your
portion, try to infuse golden drops of the
same, into hearts less fortunate and thus
increase your store; for like a spring of
water is the human heart; the more you
draw out of it, the more it is capable of re-
ceiving.


