HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Persons in pinched or moderate circum-
stances have, often, as lively a love for the
beautiful as those who are better off. There-
fore, nothing is more becoming to a sensible,
woman of limited means, than the firmest
endeavor to keep on hand, through some
legitimate course, such articles of food and
clothing for herself and family, as will
secure health. For it is a well known fact,
that health and beauty go hand in hand, and
that deprived of health, true beauty never
did, never can exist. Ladies may go to all
the expense they please to purchase artificial
beauty, but what is it after all but a simple
fraud which exposes a weakness of character?
While real beauty can be procured and long
preserved at less than half the cost, by using
sound judgment in the promotion and mainte-
nance of health.
	The following from the pen of Faith
Rochester is worthy of being contemplated
and acted upon by mothers:

	“Under-Clothing for Cold Weather.
—I have written on this subject before, but
there seems to be need of precept upon pre-
cept. Of late I have been learning better
ways than I knew before.
	For children of three years and over there
is nothing better, perhaps, than an under-
garment, clothing the body from the neck
and wrists to the heels, much like the night-
drawers children wear. They may be made
with a plain, easy, high-necked waist, with
long, straight sleeves, and with open drawers
sewed to the waist, The drawers should be
rather full at the top, but small enough at
the lower part of the leg to go inside the
stocking, reaching to the heel, or leaving no
gap above the shoe. 'Doctors disagree'
about the material of this under-garment,
some recommending woolen and some cot-
ton. Taking into account the difficulty of
washing woolen without shrinking it, and
the disagreeable sensation many skins ex-
perience in wearing it, probably the best
way in most cases is to have this under-
garment made either of cotton-flannel or of
hin cotton-cloth, with a similar garment of
warm woolen material over it. Buttons at
the waist support the other under-clothing.
	There are many sensible ladies in these
United States now wearing under-garments
similar to those just described. Among
them the preference is usually given to thin
cotton material for the suit next the body,
with a suit made of woolen (white flannel,
gray ladies’-cloth, or red fireman’s-flannel)
in the same fashion worn over the cotton
suit in winter weather. With two such
suits for frequent changes, to give oppor-
tunity for thorough airing and sunning of
the woolens, they require very little wash-
ing. The cotton next the body takes up the
perspiration, etc., and this gets the good
weekly washing. The woolen suit when
taken off weekly for a change need only be
exposed to pure air and sunlight for a day
or two to purify it properly, washing it
only when it visibly requires it.
	“If men wear cotton under their woolen
shirts, the woolen may be treated in the
same way, and men who are not engaged
in dirty work, can wear their woolen shirts
all winter with very little washing, purify-
ing them by air and sunshine each week
when changes are made. Ladies’ cloth shirts
shrink less than common flannel.”
	Preserving stuffed animals with-
out Arsenic.—Rub the flesh side of the skin
with a composition of 1 lb of tobacco ashes,
half a pound of alum, two pounds of dry
slaked lime.
	Cleaning Oil Paint.—Whiting is bet-
ter than soap. Use warm water and a soft
flannel. Afterwards wash clean and rub
dry with chamois.
	To render Corks or stoppers air-
tight.—This can be accomplished by
covering with a cement composed of red
lead or finely powdered litharge mixed with
undiluted glycerine.
	Mucilage.—Glue, water and 3 per cent
of nitric acid adheres well to metalic sur-
faces.
	Linseed is recommended as a cure for
consumptive cough. The linseed should
be boiled to the consistency of a jelly, and
sweetened with honey or sugar. Two large
tablespoonfuls should be taken when the
cough is about to attack the sufferer.
	To Wash Straw Matting.—Take a
pail half-full of hot water, a perfectly clean
long-handled mop, and a dish of dry, sifted
meal. Sweep all dust off the matting, then
scatter the dry meal evenly over the room.
Wring the mop so dry that it will not drip
at all, and rub hard, one breadth at a time,
always lengthwise of the straw, and use
clean water for each breadth. When the
matting is dry, the meal can be swept off
easily; it should always be done on a dry
day.


﻿Written for the Exponent.	
			MARRY A TRADESMAN.
	Young ladies, never speak unfavorably of
the idea of becoming the wife of an honest
tradesman, for they are in reality the
most honorable and worthy gentlemen of
any community, taken as a whole. Obscure
labor often does much more for the cause of
humanity than do deeds of world-wide fame.
The head may work itself gray, inventing
plans for industry to enter upon, but unless
the hands are fouud, the sturdy, willing
hands, to bring the designs which genius
has devised, into practical use by practical,
diligent labor, what could the schemes and
revelations of distinguished mental power
ever accomplish?


﻿Many a girl foolishly declines the hono
of being the wife of a true son of toil,
because of what her fashionable friends say
about it.
	“O! I wouldn’t marry such a man for
the world” says one. And another re-
marks, “It is so beneath your position in
society! To think of your settling down to
such a fate as washing dishes, and doubt-
less, mopping floors! I wouldn’t marry him
if I never married at all!” Why not? I
would marry him, provided I knew him to
be honest and temperate and industrious—
and that he loved me, and I him.
	If he is a genius and a scholar, so much
the better; but if not, these qualities can be
cultivated to a very great extent, and an
educated, refined and loving woman, can
do more to assist that cultivation than the
whole world could do without her.
	If he has earned, or even inherited a for-
tune, so that he is rich in worldly goods as
well as in heart, so much the better; but if
not, go to work with him, you will never
find wiser or better employment than assist-
ing the man you love to rise in the world
and become as rich and great as your proud-
est ambition would prompt within you a
desire to see him. There is much satisfac-
tion in earning what we possess, much more
than in receiving blessings in any other
way. There is true dignity and honor in
labor, labor of hands as well as of brains, to
which those who consider themselves above
work will never attain, until they have risen
above that degrading superstition.
								Aunt Trudie.


