
VOL. 33 NO 3 MARCH 1946

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford President
Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor
Gertrude R. Garff Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Anna B. Hart
Florence J. Madsen
Blanche B. Stoddard
Mary G. Judd
Edith S. Elliott
Ann P. Nibley
Evon W. Peterson
Luella N. Adams
Priscilla L. Evans
Leone G. Layton
Leone O. Jacobs
Velma N. Simonsen

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Editorial Secretary Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 33 MARCH 1946 No. 3

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
Relief Society and the Future Leah D. Widtsoe 147
A Few of Our Gifted Utah Women Artists Part III Alice Merrill Horne 151
The First Easter A Fantasy Evelyn Wooster Viner 156
An Open Door to Happiness Wilford D. Lee 162
Our Parks and Playgrounds Fred Tedesco 166
The Clouded Window Caroline Eyring Miner 172
Thrift Begins In The Garden Vesta P. Crawford 181
Lady-in-Waiting Marguerite J. Griffin 203

FICTION
All Is Known Third Prize Story Irva Pratt Andrus 157
Prelude to Spring Beatrice Rordame Parsons 173
Even the Frail Christie Lund Coles 186
The Best Little Shrub Mabel Harmer 192
And For Eternity Chapter 10 (Conclusion) Olive Woolley Burt 198

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 168
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 169
Editorials: "A Thing of Beauty is a Joy Forever" Gertrude R. Garff 170
New Serial to Begin in April 171
Notes From the Field: Messages From the Missions (Continued) General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering 206
Work Meeting: Save Those Precious Scraps Eleanor Welch Schow 196

POETRY
Renewal Frontispiece Alice Morrey Bailey 145
Her Staff Hortense Spencer Andersen 150
The Difference Cleo Gordon 155
Easter Lily Evelyn Fjeldsted 161
Late Motherhood Eva Willes Wangsgaard 165
Remember Love Anna Prince Redd 171
Lesson Katherine Fernelius Larsen 180
Lesson Roberta Bates 185
She Hangs the Linen on the Line Dott J. Sartori 196
Call of Spring Beatrice K. Ekman 202
Springtime in the West Lydia Hall 205
March Promises Aileen M. Overfelt 215
New Things Watson Anderson 216

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 74,000

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 33, NO 3 MARCH 1946 Alice Morrey Bailey The cleaning wind of March is riding high And jubilant across the smoke-thinned town. Before his cutting breath, the ice flows down; Beneath him, mud-choked streams go swirling by. He sweeps exuberant clouds across the sky, While swelling earth appears in naked brown, And timidly puts forth her new green gown. And with the wind there comes the wild bird's cry. Swing wide your doors and windows, oh, my soul, Long closed against the stinging winter's blast; Look far in heaven's blue inverted bowl. Let light and laughter wash you clean at last, Remove all petty hurts and nurtured pain, And let eternal springtime in again. E The Cover: 'Dry Valley," the desert between Moab and Monticello, Utah. Photograph by Willard Luce. VOL. 33, NO. 3 MARCH 1946 "SINGLE ROSES" From a Water Color by Artemesia R. Romney Relief Society and the Future Leah D. Widtsoe FAMILY life is best lived when man and wife form a real partnership, each pulling an equal share of the load and sharing equally in responsibility. It would be unfair and results would be far from happy if the man received most of the advantages and possessed any great gift from which his life partner were excluded. This is especially the case if the exclusion is simply because she is a woman. A Glimpse Into the Past When the true Church of Christ was restored through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the equal rights of men and women on earth and before God were assured. From the first, women were asked to exercise their religious franchise, the same as were the male members. Their votes in sustaining officers were accepted as were men's, and that practice continues to this day. 'The great and primal right of free agency belongs to all God's children to his daughters as well as to his sons. In order to give women greater opportunities for progress, the Relief Society was organized through inspiration by the Prophet Joseph Smith on March 17, 1842. It was organized to "purge out iniquity" from their midst, but always to be "armed with mercy" in pursuance of their righteous labors. And, while the purpose which caused the sisters to want an organization was the desire to aid the poor and needy, yet the Prophet greatly enlarged its scope by declaring: "The Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." 'This incentive should stimulate the women of the Church to be active in this Society and to carry on incessantly. When the priesthood was restored, it was bestowed on all the righteous male members of the Church, but the blessings accruing therefrom are for the benefit of all Church members, men, women, and children. This is a wise provision, for as the mothers of men, potential or actual, women have a calling which is so time-and-energy consuming that added duties would be burdensome. In one of the Prophet's instructive discourses to the sisters, "he spoke of delivering the keys of the Priesthood to the Church, and said that the faithful members of the Relief Society should receive them in connection with their husbands, that the Saints whose integrity has been tried and proved faithful, might know how to ask the Lord and. Receive an answer" (D. H. C. Vol. IV, page 604). The sisters should accept this as a challenge to be wise and circumspect, and truly in harmony with God's laws and ordinances, or they may lose this precious gift. At another time the Prophet stated to the sisters: "I now turn the key in your behalf, in the name of the Lord, and this society shall rejoice, and knowledge and _intelligence shall flow down from this Page 147 148 time henceforth." This glorious promise is for us today, as well as for the women of the past, and should stimulate every woman in this Church to participate in the activities of Relief Society. The Present Speaks That the women of the Church have profited and do appreciate these blessings is proven by the continual growth of the Society. From the original eighteen members at the organization meeting, it has grown to a membership of over 102,000, with active groups in most of the civilized countries of the world today. The program includes the provision for the mental and spiritual growth of the members, as well as for the care of the poor or ill or needy in any way. The promise of the Founder is being fulfilled! But growth and Church membership demand progress. What of the Future? And now to us all today comes the challenge of the Future! What may we, the members of Relief Society do to help heal our sick and war-torn world? How it needs the administrations of the Great Physician, the Father of us all! I often wonder whether the women of the world, and especially of this Church, really understand the great power that they possess. If every mother were to impress upon her young and growing child that to love is so much more fun than to hate, that men are essentially good and are intended to love righteousness, and that everyone's difficulty may be settled by finding out what is right and then doing it if that could be done, then wars would be impossible. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 The mother has this definite responsibility, because through nature it is she who gives birth to and nurtures the child most closely during his early formative years, when his character for his entire future life is being formed. There are two great truths with vast implications that all should understand: (1) all great causes have small beginnings; (2) a chain is no stronger than its weakest link. The mightiest rivers on earth have their beginnings hundreds of miles away in the tiniest trickle from a melting snowbank. Many of these "trickles" unite to form a rivulet, many rivulets make a stream, the streams make a river, and many rivers uniting form the mighty Mississippi, Amazon, and Volga rivers, with their majestic power. Similarly there is an ultimate beginning of every war, and it is in the homes in which the children of men are reared in your home and mine and all the countless homes of earth. The individual home may be likened to the tiny trickle which begins the mighty river. If a child is loved and cared for and understood from infancy, and all his problems met with fairness and justice by wise parents, he grows up with faith in his playmates and later in his fellow men, prepared to expect and to give justice and mercy 'in all his dealings in later life. These are undoubtedly the "men (and women) of good will" of whom the angels sang on the first Christmas morn when they promised peace! On the other hand, if a busy, distracted, selfish, untrained, wrongly brought-up mother, or father, treats the child with unfairness, punishes him unjustly (as the child feels), RELIEF SOCIETY AND THE FUTURE | and fails to give time and patience and love enough to understand him and his problems, even though they think they love him, then this child is very likely to grow to maturity feeling that the world is unjust, that evil is everywhere. He is sure to feel that only he succeeds who looks out for himself, and it does not matter what happens to anyone else so long as he gets what he wants. Such a child grows to maturity with a burning determination to "get even," to get revenge for the wrongs he feels were innocently forced upon him. That is but human. Of such children grow the future overlords, dictators, and all their kind who think might is right, and any means justify getting the power to rule others. War will cease only when men learn from infancy the power of love, justice, and the true worth of all God's children on earth, with their right to "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." The first and greatest teachers of these noble truths are the mothers of men; they can be ingrained into one's character in no other way. When the chain of world peace is forged, it can be no stronger than the men and women who have come from homes such as yours and mine with their determination, OT lack of it, to be truly "men of good will." to place on the shoulders of the mothers of men. Indeed, it is too big a job to be left to chance. Motherhood is indeed and should be the greatest of all professions, for its results are far-reaching and 149 tremendously important. Yet this profession is practically the only one today which is ignored, as such, by our schools, colleges, and universities. One must be trained for any and every other profession even for trimming fingernails of curling hair  and especially for the "fine art" (?) of killing one's fellow men, women, and children! The tremendous increase in juvenile delinquency and crime ls rightly laid, as first cause, to faulty or broken homes, and they are surely the result of ignorant and untrained mothers and fathers but especially mothers. Yet, what are we doing to make better mothers? Girls should learn the technique of homemaking. To trust to home training or instinct is not enough in too many cases it is negligible. The condition of the world today proves this to be true. This, then, may be one of the greatest opportunities for the active endeavor of every mother of Zion: to work for better motherhood in the Society and to demand special intensive training in homemaking and parenthood in all our schools, even in the grades for many girls do not reach high school or college.. This training should be as fundamental as the "Three R's." Its neglect can bring greater disaster to the entire human race. Our Relief Society program has included instruction for better motherhood and such training will be continued. Are we doing all we can in the Society,: n the communities, as in our homes, to inculcate justice, fairness, and nobility into the lives of our children and their friends? Are we making our convictions known so that our schools and other agencies will 150 provide training for parenthood and homemaking for every boy and girl in the land? If the hundred thousand voices of Relief Society are raised in any cause, they are sure to be heard. The second century of Relief Society will have many tasks for our willing hearts and hands, but surely this is one way of meeting the needs of the hour and extending our usefulness for world betterment. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 Our Heavenly Father will help us in this great task, if we ask him, and activate the truths he has given for our guidance in the gospel of Jesus Christ. This is but one way we may fulfill truly our destiny as members of this great God-given Relief Society! HER STAFF Hortense Spencer Anderson The years had brought despair, and vicious sting Of loneliness and want; yet she toiled long For many others, always mastering Herself, and in return her faith grew strong. With service, she had won serenity Like cool, refreshing shade on a summer lake Surrounding her, she the willow tree, Which trembled in the storm, but did not break. And then, as if outraged, in jealous mood, That she should stand with grace and fortitude, The storm redoubled; in fury the lightning flared; And she lay ravaged by grief and pain, ensnared. Grief and pain, because she now was blind. No more could she behold this wonderland, Nor toil for others, seeking through the grind To mend.... What had she left to help her stand? Bereft of sons and home, in woe complete, She asked, "Is there a staff within my scope, Or was it for this chastening defeat Time led me through delusive fields of hope?" She found her staff, made ready, on the shelf Of tested treasures, where it had always lain, Unbroken, guarded still, within herself. Her staff of faith would help her rise again. A Few of Our Gifted Utah Women Artists Alice Merrill Horne Former Member Relief Society General Board PART III Note: Part I of this series appeared in December 1944, and Part II in January 1945 EACH year it has been my cherished privilege to introduce at least two young would-be-artists with a one-man show at Z. C. M. I. The latest addition to the ranks of our artist colony is Maude Maye Nebeker, whose work already reveals strength, courage, and a good selection of subjects. You will like her work. Mrs. Nebeker's husband is the son of my old friend Aquilla Nebeker, the President of the Senate while I served in the Third Legislature as a representative. But once, instead of choosing a young artist, I happened on a lady of dignity and charm who had been painting around for years. 'That is how, at sixty-six years young, Artemesia Redd Romney had her first exhibition at Z. C. M. I. Tiffin Room. Mrs. Romney has mothered ten "GARDENIAS" Bessie Alice Bancroft Page 151 152 children besides looking after many missionary lads. Indeed, she has the ease and grace of the mother of a battalion. Her life story reads like the book of fate. Of late, the whole world has been celebrating V-J Day, August 14. Artemesia Redd first saw the light August 14, 1874. The parents, Lemuel Hardison and Louisa Chamberlain Redd, were pioneers of experience. Louisa was born in Salt Lake City in the early 1849's. Her father, Solomon Chamberlain, was one of the original pioneer company of 1847. The Redd family was called by Brigham Young to establish New Harmony in Washington County in Southern Utah. Lemuel Redd was a sheep rancher. Louisa Redd reared twelve sons and daughters to manhood and womanhood. Artemesia, the eldest daughter, became an expert baby tender. She was habitually creating pictures with any mediums at hand. Even that did not prevent this ambitious girl from helping her mother to reel yarn, card wool, spin, and knit her own stockings. Artemesia went to school until she was thirteen years of age. At this period the family moved to Bluff, San Juan County. Next they moved to Old Mexico when the subject of our sketch drove the team much of the way to Colonia Juarez where the Redd family settled. In Juarez, Artemesia met her future mate, George S. Romney, to whom she was married December 5, 1894. Mr. Romney, a carpenter and builder, had larger ambitions. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 He was very studious and worked for years taking out his Master's and Doctor's degrees, after the family was driven out of Mexico by the Mexican rebels. Seven children had been born to them in Mexico and three others were added in Los Angeles and Oakley, Idaho. In Salt Lake City, and later in Chicago, Mr. Romney pursued his education. For thirteen years at Cassia Academy, Oakley, Idaho, while her husband served as president, Artemesia studied courses in art. While her husband studied at the University of Chicago, Mrs. Romney painted pictures. Her husband then was chosen head of the Northern States Mission. Responsibility doubled on this, our artist, as she mothered missionaries and supervised thirty Relief Societies. In the midst of this exacting work, her husband passed away. Upon the death of her mate, she plunged into painting for relief and comfort. At Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, Mrs. Romney studied under B. F. Larsen and Verla Birrell. In Kaysville, she continued under Le Conte Stewart. Finally, she returned to the Art Students' League in Chicago where she prepared to exhibit her water colors. On her return home, at the age of sixty-six, Artemesia Redd Romney saw her work hung at the Z. C. M. I. Tiffin Room in a one-man show. So this intrepid pioneer woman is busy painting exquisite pictures of flowers. BESSIE ALICE BANCROFT, former art instructor at West High School and Horace Mann School, died last May 23d at fifty-eight years of age. UTAH WOMEN ARTISTS "COTTONWOOD CANYON" Maude Maye Nebeker With a powerful mentality, though a weak body, she accomplished very much, seeking to in spite young people to love and understand the beautiful. Each year of her many years of service, Bessie would be found at a university devoting her vacation to study and travel, At the time of her passing she had almost completed her Master's degree. 154 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 The school collection at Horace Mann was the first to be established in a Utah junior high school and was eventually named the Bessie Alice Bancroft Collection. Bessie cast her bread upon the waters. May it long continue to return and enrich those in whom she sought to create a love for and understanding of the fine arts. "PATH TO PEACE" Alta Margene Stirk UTAH WOMEN ARTISTS ALTA MARGENE STIRK ALTA MARGENE STIRK is a beautiful young woman, daughter of an artist mother. She was presented in her first one-man show at Z.C.M.I. Tiffin Room, November 1945. The collection portrayed a variety of art interests. Flowers, the moods of spring, early autumn, and November are revealed in twenty-five water colors by Mrs. Stirk. Her study has covered Utah and the Northwest and her teachers have been Le Conte Stewart, Paul Smith, Joseph A. F. Everett, and others. Mrs. Stirk's husband has served our country in the South Pacific for three years and is now stationed at Fort Douglas. �CONTRASTS" Alta Margene  THE DIFFERENCE Cleo Gordon A black wind shrieked, but you and I Went out to battle with heads held high; And fighting through it, arm in arm, Found weird beauty in the storm. Today I watch in sheltered pain Frail flowers whipped by driving rain; Now, fearfully, I shrink to see How wild and bitter a storm can be. The First Easter A Fantasy Evelyn Wooster Viner
THE lush grass ran in rippling waves before the whispering breeze. Unyielding spikes of hyacinths starred the shimmering green, and heavy-headed daffodils gleamed golden and nodded with each undulation. Dew-diamonds trembled on leaf and blade and melted into prismatic color.
In the lovely garden of Joseph of Arimathea birds welcomed the new Sabbath with a burst of song. Into the peace and quiet of the garden came a woman bearing in her hands a box. Her voluminous robe brushed the wet grasses bordering the path and tumbled a multitude of the translucent jewels to the moist earth where they at once disappeared, their brief beauty gone.
The sweetness of her face was accentuated by a sadness which deepened as the path neared the sepulchre that had been hewn from the solid outcropping of rock which showed where the hill veered sharply skyward.
Preoccupied with her own sad thoughts, she noticed nothing wrong until the trail ended under the ancient olive tree whose glossy leaves drooped in silent benediction above the tomb.
Now, however, she saw that the great rock which had so carefully been sealed into the opening was rolled back and the cavelike place yawned vacantly. Peering into it, she perceived that it was indeed empty. Fear and wonder were written on her face, and turning she ran swiftly away, her robe fluttering wildly.
After a short interval she reappeared, accompanied by two men. Both men entered the sepulchre, but, finding it empty, they soon went away, but the woman stood weeping under the olive tree.
As she was turning away, she saw a man whom she mistook for the gardener, and when he inquired the cause of her distress she said pleadingly, "Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away."
What a wealth of tenderness he condensed in that one word, "Mary." With a glad cry of recognition she threw herself at his feet. To Mary Magdalene's joy and wonder, the resurrection had been accomplished, and as she bowed in reverence it seemed as if the sun shone a little brighter, the birds sang a little louder and why not? It was only fitting that all nature should celebrate the first Easter day. Page 156 Proverbs 16:7. Third Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest All Is Known Irva Pratt Andrus LIKE the winged seeds of the dandelion, the word was wafted over the land. In the village of Bethany, Sarah, the daughter of the widow, Tabitha, heard it, too. At first she paid scant attention to the strange tales, "Did you hear that at Capernaum a centurion's servant, sick these many years, was healed of Palsy by this Carpenter of Nazareth?" "Did you know that it is said two blind men could see as well as anyone after this man Jesus touched their eyes?" "Did you hear? Did you hear?" Everywhere, of a sudden, people were talking of strange happenings in the land about the Sea of Galilee. Must the only daughter of a poor widow, Sarah heard these things, and gradually she became filled with a great need to know more of this man of Nazareth. Now she paused often in the shadows before the inn to hear the latest word of Passing travelers, "Never have I heard such doc. Trine," one dusty traveler said. "He was in Galilee and great multitudes of people were gathered about listening. IRVA PRATT ANDRUS Do you know what he said? He said, 'Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of meek would inherit "I was there, too," traveler, "and he looked down at us, but he said, plain as anything:  Ye world." "Whence hath this man this wisdom and these mighty works?" many asked, Page 157 158 Whence, indeed, thought Sarah. I wish he would come to Bethany. Perhaps he could heal Tabitha of the swelling and pains in her arms and legs and take the tired look of suffering from her face. Perhaps he could cure Simon, who is good and wise even though a leper. Perhaps  oh, there was so much to do in Bethany. So much to do in Bethany for all the poor, the sick, the lame, the blind, and so much to do for Sarah. She was ashamed of the thought. She, who was young and strong, who often heard those less fortunate call after her: "Bless you, my child," and yet she was so desperately in need of help. Deeply hidden, where others could not know, a great bitterness and discontent had been growing for many weeks within her. Sometimes she saw it reflected in her eyes as she stooped to draw water from the well, and she was afraid; afraid that Tabitha, who was so patient and good, would some day see it and be hurt by it. When trying to think back to find when this terrible thing within her had begun, Sarah thought it must have been when she first began to notice the tired, drawn look upon her mother's face. Tabitha was so good, so kind, so generous, and yet she must suffer so. Together they scarcely were able to earn a bare existence, and each time Sarah carried a bowl of soup or a morsel of food to others she knew that Tabitha would say she was not hungry when evening came. All this, and more, of need Sarah knew, and yet often on the road to Jerusalem she saw gay and laughing people dressed in rich robes and followed by numbers of slaves. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 Upon the masters' hands and about their throats were shining jewels, and they were rude and haughty to any who chanced to be at the well as they drew up. Here, in the village of Bethany, daily she saw the rich and she knew the poor. This, and many small things, fed the discontent within Sarah. She could not know of what all the bitterness was made. Of what value the many tasks she must do daily if they led only to old age, to disease, to poverty? Why should bright jewels and jingling coins make such a difference? "This Jesus cares nothing for money or goods." one traveler said. "He got Matthew, who was a receiver of customs, to leave everything and follow him." What could he have said to Matthew? Was there an answer to all the suffering and struggling that piled up into days? Did he tell Matthew something that made security and comfort seem as nothing? "What does he look like?" many asked. What would such a man look like. Sarah felt that she must know. Some day she must see this Jesus, for perhaps he knew the answer to the hopelessness and fear within her. Some day he may come to Bethany, she thought. Perhaps she would meet him on her way to the well, or by the olive grove where she watched the sunset when she was not needed by Tabitha. At the thought she felt breathless and frightened. She had heard that he answered great multitudes freely, and they were strangely comforted. Word had come that Jesus had even quieted a storm upon the Sea of Galilee; perhaps he could still the storm of doubt and discontent within her. ALL IS KNOWN ONCE it was rumored that Jesus was, indeed, coming to Bethany, but Sarah was kept close at home with the sickness of Tabitha who was at times unable to move from her bed. For days she administered to the needs of her mother, and in her solicitude almost forgot the coming of Jesus. When Tabitha was well enough for Sarah to once more go about the village, she learned that Jesus had been to Bethany. He had been to the house of Simon and had cured him of his leprosy. Sarah could scarcely believe that he had come and gone. She went to see Simon to hear from his own lips of this Jesus of Nazareth. "Yes, my child, indeed he was here." The old man was fairly bouncing with excitement. "Oh, Sarah, you never have heard such doctrine." Sarah listened to all that the villagers had to say of Jesus and his teachings, and still the turmoil was with her. Her sleep now became troubled with strange dreams. Often she dreamed that she was old and sick, and that Tabitha was gone, and all the rich people were riding wildly around her shouting taunts at her. In her unhappiness she thought of going out upon the road in search of Jesus, but the thought of Tabitha tugged at her heart. She could not leave her mother. She must wait until he came. Nearly three years had passed since the first word had come to the village of the work of Jesus, and as 159 the third springtime touched the hills about Bethany, travelers again brought word that this man who had so moved the people throughout the land, was on his way to Jerusalem. At evening Sarah went to the house of Simon. Had he seen Jesus? Was he coming to Bethany? "I am afraid for him," Simon said, shaking his shaggy head. "He is even now in Jerusalem, and the chief priests will do all they can to destroy him, my child." "Destroy Jesus?" Sarah was unbelieving. "He does only good to the people. Why should the priests want to destroy him?" "Why, indeed," answered Simon, "because too many people are beginning to want to live as he teaches, that's why, Sarah. Did you not hear he has even driven the moneychangers from the Temple and declared that it is to be a house of prayer? The priests cannot fill their moneybags with prayers." "Did he? Did he, really?" Sarah cried. "When will he come again to Bethany?" She could scarcely hide the trembling that had come upon her. "At any hour, Sarah girl, at any hour!" the old man replied. At any hour! Perhaps even now he neared the village. With urgent haste Sarah left the house of Simon. Half running, she took the winding path toward the olive groves. The sun was lingering upon the edge of a distant slope, sending forth long shoots of light to push against the persistent shadows slipping among the trees, when Sarah sat down to watch the road from Jerusalem. The dustv green of the 160 olive trees was softened contrast for the blossoms of the almond trees nearby; the ground was smooth with the softness of emerald shoots stretching upward. Intently Sarah watched; she must not miss Jesus this time. Even as she waited her fear was close beside her. What could he say to her? What could he do to change this hard ball of bitterness and discouragement? "Sarah," said a voice so close beside her that, startled, she sprang to her feet. Such a deep, rich voice she had never heard before. How had he come upon her so quietly? How had he known her name? The sunrays were full upon his face as she looked at him; he seemed as no other man she had ever seen. His eyes had such a steadiness within them, yet he looked very tired. "Why fret you, Sarah?" His words were like music of running RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 water. "All is known to your Father in heaven." Sarah did not answer; instead she dropped her eyes and her breath swelled within her. How could he know? Yet she. Was sure that he did know. All that was within her heart of doubt, of fear, of hurt, of defeat, he knew. Other words he spoke, and as she listened it was as if the strange radiance of the sunset were melting away her bitterness. What his words were, Sarah could never recall afterwards, but she knew that they were peace, courage, and hope. When he left her Sarah stood very still watching as he went down the winding path. The last strong rays of the sun glowed around him, and to her it seemed that his robe was Of shining gold. Into the house of Tabitha, in the town of Bethany, she carried a warm bright reflection. Irva Pratt Andrus, Provo, Utah, is the wife of the artist, J. Roman Andrus of Brigham Young University faculty. Mrs. Andrus, daughter of Orson W. And Emma J. Pratt, was born in Kanab, Utah, and attended Dixie Junior College in St. George. She is the mother of four young children. Her literary work has appeared in The Relief Society Magazine, the Improvement Era, the Children's Friend, in the poetry anthology Utah Sings, and several of her poems have been read over the radio. At present she is working on a biography of Jim Andrus, Dixie pioneer stockman. A devoted Relief Society worker, Mrs. Andrus is now a member of Utah Stake Relief Society Board, acting as Visiting Teachers' Messages Leader. She writes: "You may be interested in knowing that the story 'All Is Known' began to take form last winter as I prepared the Teachers' Messages lesson on the Beatitudes." If all the countries would accept the Sermon on the Mount as their common denominator there would be no more wars, and troubles between nations would cease.  Honorable Louis Ludlow of Indiana, from a speech in the House of Representatives, November 12, 1945. EASTER LILY Evelyn Fjelsted We stand in breathless awe before The Easter lily now in bloom; In silence it has long designed To glorify our living room. The bulb, so still, a secret held  A secret of a coming dawn, A proof of life renewed where once Another bloom had come and gone. "They toil not, neither do they spin," And yet a king was not arrayed Like one of these whose royalty Presents a roseate parade. Each lily seems to hold a scroll That tells in sweet humility, The story written in a bulb  A treatise on eternity. "CONSIDER THE LILIES" From a Painting by LeJeune A Perry Picture Page 16] An Open Door to Happiness Wilford D. Lee FROM the time that the boy first tastes great juicy apples from his father's orchard, and plays hide-and-seek in the gigantic sweet clover which grows between the trees, to the time that he comes into manhood, he becomes more and more convinced that God made this unusual world as a place to be enjoyed. Because the boy was raised on a farm he came in contact with nature early, and as far back as he can remember, these contacts have been pleasant. Moreover, the things which were pleasant when they were experienced have continued to give him joy when the experience itself is gone. It is interesting to step inside the boy's mind and find what is stored there to see how the sights and sounds and tastes and smells of natural life help to give the man happiness. His father was a beekeeper who placed his hives on the sunny southwest slopes of those low Idaho hills just east of the upper Snake River. When the spring came the boy was chosen, because of a special skill, to stay near the apiary and watch for swarms. The boy had learned to whistle, but not in the little girls' way, nor in the manner of the bird imitator. His whistle was a loud and lusty blast, a piercing sound which, on a clear day, could be heard half a mile away. What marvelous beauties he experienced on those first warm days of spring! He lay on his back with his hat over his eyes, there on the Page 162 sun-splashed hillside, soaking in the warmth which so long, through the winter months, had been denied. And even with his eyes shut, he could tell what was going on in the valley below him. Just a few rods away, the canal skirted the hill, and in the willows that fringed its banks, the red-winged blackbirds caroled their melodious harmony. In the silences, when they flew away, the boy could hear his father plowing in the field below the canal, the steady squeak of stretching leather, the click of singletrees, the musical tinkle of chains, the rhythmical stamp of the horses' hoofs as they thrust their shoulders into the creaking collars, the scrape of the plow as it grated upon a rock. IN the lull of the noontide, when the horses were in the stable, and the birds were resting in the shade, the smell of wild things crept into the silences like shy welcome creatures which were always present, yet unnoticed in the medley of sound. The sweet damp earth steamed in the warmth of the strengthening sun; the rotting vegetation sent up the smell of ripe fertility; the plowed field exuded into the breeze its own particular smell of new-turned earth. The snowdrops, the sweet william, the docks, and the little snowballs all hinted at perfumes which could not be really smelled without picking the flower. AN OPEN DOOR TO HAPPINESS The newly opened leaves of the willow and the poplar mixed the scent of their sticky sap with the smell of dandelions and apple blossoms which was brought to the hill by the giant-legged bees, But all of these perfumes were drenched and strengthened by the sage which dashed its tangy perfume on every puff of the south wind. Into the drowsiness, just when the boy was farthest away in a sleepy ecstasy, the sound of the bees rose in quick crescendo, singing with a high whining hum; then he sat up to find that the bees were swarming. They poured from the hive like water from a break in the canal. The boy leaped to his feet, and cupping his hands to his mouth, sent forth his shrillest blast again and again until his throat pained him. The sound streaked away, like a stream of light, to the house a quarter of a mile away. The father, coming to the door, waved, then started at a trot for the hill. When the lad saw that the father had heard, he turned, and dipping up water, from tubs prepared beforehand, flung it into the air among the circling bees. By the time the father got there, the bees were clustering on a Sage or willow bush while the man squatted unveiled, breathing hard from his run up the hill, and tried to find the queen. Failing in that, he took the box of frames which the boy had brought, and shook the bees into it. This was the spice of life which made existence interesting. And a lazy life it was, for, although the child helped to capture hundreds of swarms, he has yet to see the vanguard of one issuing from the hive. Always he was too busy lying on his back, looking up into the clear blue sky, preoccupied with seeing, and smelling, and tasting, and feeling the joyous excitations of nature. Never 163 until the swarm was a spiraling, circling cyclone of life, did the boy realize that the bees were swarming. With the declining sun, a chill crept into the air, and the child awoke from his reverie, it was then that his senses became as acute as pain. He rose and shook himself into wakefulness, and started for the house. As he moved along, the evening robins filled his ears with chirping, but through the gaps in their song, he heard the wind whizz through the dry stems of last year's grass. The shadows gathered in purple splotches in unexpected places; the western horizon, lit up with reds and golds, sent aloft long fingers of light as if in thankfulness to God for the perfect day. The hum of all living things as they gathered in peace for the night, the tang of willow bark on the lad's tongue as he crossed the canal to the house, the Caress of the south wind as it swept his cheek, all moved and thrilled him as he ended his day. AND so it is that we love nature, and get joy from all her sounds and smells and delicate hues. Who can resist the splashing loveliness of a mountain stream as it dashes along its bed? It is like a mischievous boy whose play is never ended. We love to sit so close that the roar of it is in Our ears, and the splash of its spray is On our faces. It is abundantly true that from the nature which is intensely smelled, and tasted, and felt, we get one of the purest types of happiness; and not only happiness, but truth as well, for poets, and musicians, and artists everywhere come to nature for their inspiration; and Philosophers and Prophets use her 164 every mood as proof for their principles of right. Many of the experiences in nature are either painful or ludicrous; yet as they pass into the background of the mind, they lose their sting and remain in Our memories as sweet Or beautiful events. The lad came to know about cows in some such way. All his life he had been fond of milk, and when the old white-faced cow went dry, which seemed to him entirely too often, he stood at the house and looked up to the canal where the animal stood knee-deep in clover placidly chewing her cud, the picture of patient contentment. And then she calved. What rejoicings there were when the nine milkings had been fed to the pigs! Then, one day an older sister and brother took the lad out to see the new-born calf. The cow, which had always been so mild and docile, was feeding in the field. How were they to know that she would object to the sister's red dress? With a snort and a bellow she charged! And only by flying like the wind, whisking the child between them, did the brother and the sister save him. They popped into the honey house and slammed the door just as the old cow lunged against it. She bellowed and pawed the earth until the father came and drove her away. In somewhat the same way, the children came to know the habit patterns of geese. Certainly they should have known better, for they all had helped to pick the feathers from the birds at molting time. Woe to the person who let go of a wing. With the knobs of his pinions the goose can strike a blow like a prize fighter. One spring the old gray goose RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 laid her eggs in an overturned barrel. In the allotted time she brought out eight beautiful puffs of yellow down. How the children wanted to touch them as they followed their mother in military order to the water! One day the boy slipped up behind the old goose while she was feeding on the new green alfalfa, and caught a little gosling. Though he held it carefully, its cries brought the old goose charging. Such a beating fury hit his back and shoulders that he was knocked to the ground, where the old goose beat him and pulled his hair until the boy's mother, answering his screams, came and drove the old goose off and saved him from being completely gobbled up. It is said that happiness is dependent upon the possession of a certain amount of the physical comforts of life, such as food, clothing, shelter; yet it is surprising how many people have these things and yet are not happy. In fact, the overindulgence of the appetite in physical enjoyments is certain to bring weariness rather than the expected joy. The man who tastes lightly of the good things is the one who enjoys them most. With an appetite that is unsated, the person goes on through life, still enjoying, still experiencing keenly, still adding to the happiness which is already his. An appetite that is gorged, whether it be with food, or drink, or entertainment, can never give its owner a satisfying thrill of happiness. Thus, some of the most subtle experiences come from the stored images which, as Wordsworth says, "flash upon the inward eye, which is the bliss of solitude." The storing of the soul with beauty is the process by which real culture is accomplished. AN OPEN DOOR TO HAPPINESS The type of culture which grows from within is in abrupt contrast to the semi-polite veneer which can be, and often is, removed when the individual is away from the ones whom he wishes to impress. It is a type of inward training which makes "endless additions to itself..... Endless expansions to its posers..... Endless growth in wisdom and _ beauty." Such a culture is not having and resting, but growing and becoming. It is an idea of perfection which is totally at variance with the ideas of culture which a material and a mechanical civilization gives us. The time may come when materialistic people will completely satisfy their desire for things, for gadgets, for machines, and for new inventions. In that time when their desires are satisfied, when their appetites are surfeited with clothes, and automobiles, and houses, intelligent people will wake up to the fact that they have minds, and _ that, through the development of the mind, the greatest happiness can be achieved. 165 Yet the obtaining of happiness is a complex process, and cannot be completely accomplished with only one source. Joy is a stream which flows from many fountains, only one of which is the overflowing spring of stored-up beauty. Happiness comes also from the thrill of creation, whether that creation is a wicker basket or a Paradise Lost. And happiness comes from a sense of inner purity, a joyous oneness with God. The feeling of love for all the world steals in when sympathy replaces envy, when love replaces hate, when exquisite satisfaction follows a legitimate wish. LATE MOTHERHOOD Eva Willes Wangsgaard She has waited long for this Marvel of maternal bliss; Joy illumining her face Wells from love as deep as space. Here is proof that love can wreathe A room till you can feel it breathe; Rapt with joy, she has not heard Our steps. Retreat, without a word. Let no movement nor mischance Startle moth-winged radiance. Our Parks and Playgrounds Fred Tedesco Commissioner, Parks and Public Property, Salt Lake City, Utah (Prepared at the request of the Church Beautification Committee. THE concerted effort of every worthwhile and up-and-coming organization in Salt Lake City will be pointed toward the 1947 Centennial. This is a twelve-month celebration set aside to commemorate the arrival of the Mormon pioneers who suffered untold hardships and privations to reach this promised land. It is fitting, then, that our efforts be bent in preparation for a celebration worthy of their memory. The creed of the pioneer recognized the necessity of setting aside a certain portion of each day for the purpose of recreation. His day was a full one devoted to working, playing, sleeping, and a certain amount of time set aside for worship and prayer. The youth of our City are a living commemoration of the progeny of the Utah pioneers of one hundred years ago. The leaders of our community, as well as our mothers and fathers, have recognized the value of our young people and their need for play and recreation. Our playgrounds, parks, and other recreational facilities have been established to fill the leisure-time hours of our youth, as well as those of adults. Brigham Young designated certain areas to be set aside for parks and recreation. Liberty Park, Pioneer Park, and others still stand. His successors met new occasions as they Page 166 arose and established other parks to meet the current needs of their day in areas undesignated by him. Today, with the exception of one section, parks and playgrounds are well distributed throughout our City. Salt Lake City now has thirty-two playgrounds, of which twenty-five are supervised during the summer months by qualified recreational directors. Our community has eighteen beautiful and well-groomed parks, rated on a par with any city comparable in size in the United States and far surpassing at least seventy-five per cent of them. In these parks we have seven swimming pools, which are used and enjoyed by thousands of children and adults. Today, Salt Lake City is rated a national leader in boys' club and girls' club activities, having established and operated with increasing success five completely equipped and well-supervised boys' clubs and girls' clubs. 'These clubs have a present membership of 10,000 boys and girls. These, together with the parks described below, as well as specific facilities for every other recreational pursuit, stand in readiness to pay a worthy tribute to our courageous and far-sighted forefathers. OUR PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS 167 SWIMMING POOL AT FAIRMONT PARK, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH THE Tracy Aviary is one of the most outstanding bird sanctuaries in the United States. Its varied and complex collection of birds and small animals presents two hours of full and complete enjoyment to any visitor. Hogle Zoological Gardens situated at the mouth of the Emigration Canyon, where the pioneers made their dramatic entrance into this valley, is a picturesque setting for the lions, tigers, bears, and other large animals that live in pens depicting their natural habitat. This place is a definite source of education and interest, especially to the young people. Memory Grove Park, established to the memory of the fallen soldiers of World War One, is a beautiful spot to behold. It is placed on the canyon floor between two mountainous walls of well-shrubbed, grassy expanse. Mothers and loved ones of our fallen heroes gain much solace in its beauty and reverence. The three municipal golf courses, Nibley Park, Forest Dale, and Bonneville, whose grounds and fairways provide many happy hours to thousands of golfers each year, appeal to adults in preference to the youth. Down through the century, with inspiring zeal, the Mormon pioneer constructed, alongside every chapel, an edifice designed for recreation and amusement. Today, his descendant children, fully aware of his gift to them, live in fulfillment of this most cherished dream, among expansive provisions for their leisure-time moral and physical development. We Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, March 1 and March 15, 1886 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE Rights OF THE WOMEN OF ALL Nations" WRITE TO ME VERY OFTEN Write to me very often, If you but send a line, For the ocean rolls between us, Yet your life seems linked to mine. I am tarrying with strangers, But when your letters come, My heart is high with rapture, For they speak of love and home.  Anonymous ee Re HOUSE-FURNISHING: In house-furnishing a little money and a good deal of taste go much farther than a little taste and a good deal of money. The first rule, and 4 most important one, is to go slowly. Learn what you want, and having decided this question, never accept anything else until all possible expedients are exhausted for procuring it. Do without until the moment of absolute necessity rather than accept unsatisfactory substitutes  Selected a CONVERSATION: One of the chief benefits of conversation is that each can learn that which his companion knows and he does not; but this benefit can come only to the modest and receptive mind. Most of the argument held by persons of opposite views is quite futile for the want of this mental condition. The object is not to find out the truth about the mooted subject, but to shine and to conquer. Neither party becomes wiser, neither is convinced. The humiliation of the one and the triumph of the other are alike fruitless. Editorial Note UTAH STAKE: Relief Society Conference, February 26, 1886. President John felt well in meeting with the sisters in conference once more and thought we were doing a good work. We know that this is the Kingdom of God, and feel that the Lord is blessing us here in Provo****Let us honor those who are called to preside over us and pray for them. We must learn to build up and not pull down. Let us cultivate a spirit of peace, for our strength lies in the power we have with God. O. Daniels, Secretary MISCELLANEOUS: Many a small man never ceases talking about small sacrifices he makes; but he is a great man who can sacrifice everything and say nothing. Let any man in middle life look over the list of those he has known and ask himself whether those have always succeeded best whose minds were most intent upon success. OUR CHILDREN: It is a great boon to the rising generation that the old custom of "telling ghost stories" and "witch stories" is pretty much abandoned. Pleasant and true stories are the best for the little ones to become interested in ****In connection with this subject, it may be observed how very important it is that little ones should be early taught to pray. Lula Page 168 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon A poll of women's page editors of Associated Press Newspapers throughout the nation has chosen as the ten outstanding women of 1945 the following: Lise Meitner, for her research on the atom bomb, is named the woman of the year. In business, Mrs. Ogden Reid, Vice-president of the New York Herald Tribune. In politics, Mrs. Clare Boothe Luce, congresswoman. In music, Patrice Munsell of the Metropolitan Opera. In beauty, Hedy Lamarr. In stage and screen roles, Ingrid Bergman. In sports, Babe Didrickson, champion golfer. In radio, Dinah Shore. In military service, Captain Mildred McAfee, Director of the Women's Naval Reserve. In literature, Mary Chase for her whimsical comedy, Harvey, in which the leading character always takes around with him a rabbit the size of a man. The rabbit, however, is invisible, and the family is embarrassed by Elwood's behavior. NORA KAYE, in her early twenties, ranks next to Markova in the American ballet. She has danced the lead in three out of five new ballets introduced by the Metropolitan Opera. LIEUTENANT COLONEL MARY AGNES BROWN has been appointed to serve on the staff of General Omar N. Bradley of the Veterans' Administration. Lieutenant Colonel Brown went to the Pacific in March 1944, winning many awards for her courageous service. A former attorney, she was president of the Women's Bar Association of Washington. She will handle the problems of the women veterans. MRS. ANN JANE PEEL NOBLE, a valiant pioneer of 1862, passed away in Mesa, Arizona, December 17, 1945. As a girl of ten, Mrs. Noble walked the entire distance from the Missouri River to the Salt Lake Valley. She was married January 30, 1870, in the old Endowment House to Edward Alvah Noble. Mrs. Noble was the mother of thirteen children and, in addition, reared two other children to womanhood. Her life was a beautiful example of love and devotion to her family and to her Church. With her husband, Mrs. Noble helped to pioneer the settlements of Kanab, Utah, and later, St. Johns and Alpine, Arizona. At the latter place, she made her home for a period of sixty-five years. She would have been ninety-four years of age on February 15, 1946. Six sons and daughters survive her passing. Page 169 EDITORIAL 9 MARCH 1946  A Thing of Beauty Is a Joy Forever" MANY Relief Society women have in their possession treasured heirlooms that are the handiwork of a member of the family. These heirlooms, in many instances, represent the skills and crafts of pioneer ancestors and forebears who brought from the old country the domestic arts peculiar to the country from which they emigrated. The articles have grown in value as they have been handed down from generation to generation not only because of their age and beauty, but also because the knowledge of the skills required to produce these articles is gradually disappearing. This is a very unfortunate condition and there are many reasons for it. The chief reason, however, is one of neglect neglect on the part of the younger women to learn from the older women how to do  this handwork. The knowledge of many skills and crafts has gone to the grave with women who would willingly have passed the knowledge on to others had the opportunity presented itself. Because this is a mechanized age and modern women lead very active lives, few have taken time to learn and use this precious inheritance from the past. It would be tragic to lose this part of our inheritance because the developing of these skills to produce handwork can enrich life in many ways. Page 170  The arts and crafts can beautify the home and bring pleasure to guests as well as to members of the family, This developing of skillful hands has a very hygienic effect on the mind and it also helps to produce a confident spirit. The Relief Society program presents two distinct opportunities for the encouragement, preservation, and teaching of the skills and crafts to women. The desire of the Relief Society General Board to encourage and preserve the skills of Mormon women was a vital factor in establishing the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop. Many women throughout the Church again took an interest in handicraft and found a ready outlet for the work of their hands. Crafts that had been thought "old-fashioned" were revived, and the articles made have been much in demand. Many family incomes were thus bolstered and supplemented by the proceeds from the sale of handwork contributed to the Shop. The work meeting provides an ideal opportunity for teaching skills and crafts to those desirous of learning these arts. In every ward there are women, skillful in some phase of handicraft, who would be willing to teach others at a work meeting. EDITORIAL 171 The work meeting could be made more interesting and valuable to the women by teaching them old and new crochet and knitting stitches, how to et (almost a lost art), how to make a rag rug so that it will lie flat, and how to do the many interesting embroidery stitches and where to use them. Many women who would not be interested in the arts already mentioned still could not resist learning to do needle or petit point. The Relief Society will always endeavor to encourage and preserve the crafts and sills of Mormon women. G.R.G. New serial to Begin in April A new serial, "Faith Is a Heritage," by Christie Lund Coles, will begin in the April Relief Society Magazine. The problems of a young widow and her adjustment to a changed social and economic environment are graphically presented. Through patience, hard work, and faith, Enid Drage solves her problems and rears her daughter to young womanhood. The author, a gifted daughter of C. N. and Cecelia Peterson Lund, was born in Salina, Utah. The family later moved to Mount Pleasant where Christie attended grade school. When the Lunds came to Salt Lake City, Christie completed her high school work, attended the University of Utah, and, in 1933, she was married to Elroy Coles. Their eleven-year-old daughter, Christie Caroline, is already writing poetry.
Stories and poems by Mrs. Coles have appeared in magazines and newspapers of national circulation, including the Saturday Evening Post, Good Housekeeping, the Washington (D.C.) Evening Star, The Saturday Review of Literature, Tomorrow, The New York Times, and many other publications. Her story "Victory Girl," published in a recent issue of the Rocky Mountain Review, has been rated by critics as one of the best short stories written by a Utah author. Mrs. Coles has published one volume of verse, Legacy, and has a second volume compiled.
Our readers are familiar with the stories and poems, many of them prize winners, which Mrs. Coles has contributed to the Magazine. REMEMBER LOVE Anna Prince Redd
My heart looks up, accepts its meager boon! There is no Gilead oil in bitter pride. No sesame for joy in cynic mood, But love, remembered, ever will be mine.
The Clouded Window Caroline Eyring Miner THERE was once a woman who called to her neighbor and said, "My dear, just look, if you will, at Sarah Brown's washing on the line. It is so grimy it's a disgrace to hang it out," and she peered through her window again at the line hung with damp clothes, as if to justify her remark. That glance, through her own soot-covered, dusty, and spotted window was the only possible justification for her cruel words. Outside, or viewed through shiny windows, Sarah Brown's clothes swung white as freshly fallen snow in the crisp morning breeze. Too often the windows of our souls are sooty and grimy with dirt so that they obscure the true state of affairs. I am thinking of the soot of envy, and jealousy, the grime of slander and gossip and alibi. My neighbor has succeeded in winning prizes on her canned vegetables and fruits at the county fair. I have seen her products and feel that mine are better and I have desired and coveted just such recognition as she has received. Looking through a clean window I would see things as they are. Her products, which she made a great effort to display, were really the best at the fair. I should be glad for her justified reward, but I am viewing the incident through a clouded window and so I am envious and jealous of her recognition. I slander her work and alibi my own position. Almost every moment of our lives is colored or discolored by the window through which we view it, or in other words by our individual point of view. I know a woman intimately who looks at the world through a rose-colored window. She is enthusiastic about everyone and everything. She is uncritical and each experience as it comes to her, whether objectively good or bad, is the very best thing that could have happened to her. What a delightful view she enjoys from her window. We are not all alike, though, and perhaps it is as well that we are not all looking at the world through tinted windows. The essential thing is that we see things as they are through clear windows and not distorted and sullied, through sooty and clouded ones. Page 172 Prelude to Spring Beatrice Rordame Parsons THE last tiny edges of snow had melted into small rivulets across the yard, and daffodils lifted tiny yellow, lavender, and pink heads among the last winter's leaves.
Gram Latimer and her young neighbor, Alicia Tremayne, who lived in the big, white farmhouse halfway down the road, stood on the porch of the old Latimer farmhouse and glanced eagerly towards the state highway.
Far off in the distance a yellow car moved against the horizon. Gram's voice quivered. "It's him, Lissa. It's Val. He's coming home at last."
Her fingers pulled the woolen shawl closer about her shoulders, though the early March sun was warm against her snow-white hair. Excitement showed in her features excitement and happiness, with just a tiny shadow of fear. She looked at the girl.
"Will . . . will he be changed, dear? It's been such a long time. It's been out of the army for eight months. And yet he hasn't been home."
A tiny pain suspended itself in Alicia's heart. Why hadn't Val come? What had happened? It had been a long time. Four years since he had gone away. So much had happened in between. The war. The wound in his hand. His engagement to Winnie. . . .
Almost as if she had read Alicia's thoughts, Gram said sharply, "She's coming with him she and her brother, Hank Carter, who has that band in town. Val wants to show her off."
The pain in Alicia's heart grew stronger. Once she had dreamed of Val as a girl dreams of the man she loves. But with his engagement to Winni she had wrapped those dreams in the tiniest corner of her heart. She spoke quietly. "I'm glad he's happy, Gram. He deserves to be."
Gram shook her head and her faded brown eyes were shrewd. "Val's a farm boy, no matter what high-falutin' notions he's got since the war. He belongs on the farm." Her voice died to a fraction of its tone and she whispered. "He's got to want to stay on the farm, Lissa."
Alicia knew what it meant to Gram to have Val back. She knew how hard it had been for the old lady all these years. She had done the best she could, but fallow land, unplanted fields and broken fences attested to her lack of help. Alicia tried not to see how shabby things were. She spoke almost fiercely. "Soon it will be beautiful. Right now everything's sort of . . . well, dark brown and . . . and ugly. But pretty soon the apple trees will be spreading a pink carpet over the orchard, and the gulls will be following the plow."
GRAM did not seem to hear her vehemence. The cab was turning into the long lane that led towards the house. As Alicia finished, it stopped at the white picket gate. Page 173 174 In another minute Val stepped out and Alicia's eyes shone in spite of her resolution not to show how much it meant to her to have him come home. ~ He looked the same, tall, wide-shouldered, with rumpled brown hair and laughing brown eyes very much like Gram's. He put out his left hand and helped Winni out, and Alicia's eyes filled with tears. His right hand hung stiff and useless at his side. The girl was beautiful in a tall, haughty way, with smooth dark hair rolled into a great chignon at her neck and blue eyes that examined everything carefully. Her brother, Hank, was round and cheerful, and he carried his violin case carelessly as he came up the walk. Winni called to him sharply, "Hank, do carry my bag! You know Val can't manage it and the little one, too." Dutifully, Hank turned and picked up the bag, but in spite of Val's smile, Alicia saw him wince. Then he was striding up the walk, and his left arm was holding his grandmother close against his side while he kissed her. "Gram, Gram, darling, it's good to see you." He kissed her again, then looked across her thin shoulder at the girl standing beside her. His eyes widened, then he began to laugh, as he offered his hand. "Is it really you, Lissa? I'd never have known you! Where are all those freckles, long legs and fiery hair?" He looked at her until she blushed furiously, and Winnie's cool voice asked, "Darling, aren't you going to introduce us?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 She held out a formal hand and her fingers brushed Alicia's for an instant. 'Then she turned and stared at the old stone house. "How quaint, Val. It's just like a picture of some old pioneer home." A smile lighted Gram's face. "It is a pioneer home, Winni. My grandfather built it, clearing the rocks from the land to build the house." Hank tapped one of the big stones in the pillar of the porch and remarked smilingly, "Your grandfather must have been quite a guy, Mrs. Latimer." They all laughed as Gram ushered them inside. She hurried off to the kitchen to see about lunch and Val stopped on his way through the hall to poke and pry into every corner. Winni followed Hank and Alicia into the living room and stood in the doorway, a tiny disdainful smile crossing her lips as she saw the rose-sprigged, old-fashioned wallpaper. All at once, Alicia saw that Val had joined them. He was standing just inside the door, his eyes going slowly around the room. When he spoke it was almost as if he were speaking to himself. "Funny, but out there on the islands I kept remembering the pattern of this carpet." HIS toe traced the outline of a big, red rose, and Alicia knew that he meant he had remembered the pattern of everything the way Gram's soft white curtains framed the big bay window, the pictures on the wall, the way the sunlight caressed the piano keys. She saw him straighten as his eyes turned towards the piano and almost at once his face set itself into a hard, gray mask. Before he had gone PRELUDE TO SPRING away, Val had played the piano. He had been better than most of the boys who had taken lessons from the one country teacher. Val had something that set him just a little apart. Now that thing was gone. He would never play again. Alicia found herself shivering as she watched Winni cross the room and strike a few chords on the piano. As the girl lifted her throaty voice in a crooning sort of song, Alicia wondered if she had ever known the grim, unsmiling man who listened. When she was through, Hank clapped a little. "That's the idea, Win. You've got it now. It'll go over big with the band if you sing it that way at the opening of the season at the Bronze Club." All at once Alicia knew she was going to cry. She had to get away. Her voice was smothered as she said: "I... I must go. Mother will be expecting me for lunch." She turned and hurried away. But Val followed her through the hall and out to the porch. There he faced her almost angrily. "Why are you running away? Aren't we friends any longer, or... " his lip curled bitterly, "... Or is it that you don't want to talk about my hand?" His words battered at her defenses and the tears rolled down her cheeks. "Oh, my dear, my dear," she whispered, and caught her lower lip in her teeth to stop the words. But it was too late. Everything she had ever dreamed was in her voice, her words. He looked into her clear, fine eyes, then turned abruptly away. "It's not myself I'm thinking of," he muttered, "it's Gram and Winni. Both have a right to something better than a one-handed man!" He 175 looked out over the bleak landscape, at the barren fields, the leafless cottonwoods, the little brook that wandered through the muddy meadow, and his voice was scornful. "I can't ask Winni to live here. Gram wants me to. But this is ugly... Dead. Winni's beautiful and talented. She has a career before her, singing with Hank's band. Gram belongs here, but she's got to come away with us. Someone's got to look after her, now. She's worked too hard. She's old. ['ll sell the farm and get a job...." But he stopped and held up his hand, his eyes filling with sardonic hurt, his lips twisting into a smile that cut into Alicia's heart. "There must be something a one-handed man can do," he said harshly. "There is, Val!' It was Winni's voice and though it was meant to be soothing, Alicia heard a rasp to it that was meant for her. Winni's eyes accused her of upsetting Val. Of hurting him. Winni said defensively, "Val's going to play the piano in Hank's orchestra." At Val's quick little movement of dissent, she said sharply, "I've told him again and again that he can do it. He was always beating out left-hand melody at the hospital when I sang there. He's good. I've been trying to convince him that he can join the band and make a living in spite of his hand." As if the matter were settled, she put her hand on his arm and drew him towards the door. "We'll see you sometime," she told Alicia cooly. It was several mornings later, while Alicia was pruning her roses, that Val came down the road and stopped at her gate. "A thorn among the roses," he said teasingly, reminding her of the young lad who had come 176 down the lane when children. "You can't get on the best side of me," she said sternly, though her eyes laughed, "by handing, out compliments." His legs were long enough to step over the gate without opening it. He came to her side and caught her hand. "The way you're digging among those roses, I doubt that they'll ever bloom. Winni's getting her beauty sleep. She's used to being lazy. I woke early and Gram set breakfast on the kitchen table just like she did when I was a youngster." His eyes were young and gay. "Now I want to look things over, everything that I missed when I was away. You're going to show them to me." OE pulled her to her feet, his left hand strong and warm about her fingers, and pushed open the gate. Alicia knew she had never been so aware of anyone as she was of this tall, firm-shouldered man striding along that she must skip a step every once in a while and run a little. He wore brown slacks and a brown wool sweater that matched his rumpled hair, and for the first time he looked rested and happy. But grimness crept back into his face as they walked around the farm. Though the sun was growing warmer no green shoots, except the dried breeze. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 At a board nailed crooked against the barn, and his voice was hoarse. "Gram's been carpenter, handy man, and everything else since I've been ay. It makes me sick to think of der-length veil and said softly, "She's loved doing it, Val. She s done it a stick in his left fingers and slashed at the tops of the dried grass. His voice chilled her with its scornful tone. "Remember, Lissa, when we were kids, we used to pretend that sticks were ships going out for treasure." He tossed the bit of stick in his hand into the water and watched it out of sight. His lips curled "Fine treasure my ship brought in.  The defenselessness of his young face stabbed her to the center of her She longed to put out her and to touch him, to hold him closely in her arms. If only were some way she could help him! This was Val's problem. He must solve it alone. He one who could help. Her voice was crisp in spite of what it cost her to speak. "Each man fights for his own treasure, Val.  He turned on her angrily "I m sick of fighting. The world s sick of fighting. All we know is peace   Not the sort of peace,  objected Alicia fiercely,  that makes us weak.  For a moment she thought he waws going to shout at her, put his hand against her shoulder and shake her. PRELUDE TO SPRING Then his shoulders drooped and he appealed to her with childlike simplicity. "Tell me, Lissa, what can I do? How can I fight against..." he waved his broken hand towards the cold, dark land... "all this!" There was so much pain in his voice that she swayed a little towards him, then drew sharply back. Her eyes as they met his were darkly blue and earnest. "You could plow that field!" He looked at it, his eyes lighting quickly. "Gram would like that," he said. "She wants to plant some sugar beets...." his voice trailed despondently away. "It takes two good hands to plant and plow. It's easier to sell." 'The old hardness was back in his face. "I've got a buyer," he finished curtly. "Winni's going back to town for the opening of the club. I've decided to join the band. As soon as I've worked up some good left-hand tunes, I'll be going too. Winni's going to find Gram an apartment..." ALICIA found hysterical laughter bubbling towards her lips. Val looked at her curiously. "What's the matter?" he exploded. "I've got everything worked out, and you don't seem to like the idea." "He fixed her with a baleful glare and asked, "Just what do you think I should do?" She didn't mean to say any more, but in spite of her resolution she found herself repeating the words: "Plow that field." He sputtered angrily, "I'll bet you think I don't know how. I'll bet..." Then he stopped, turned. Furiously on his heel, and marched across the meadow. It was several mornings later that 177 Alicia woke to the sound of gulls following a plow. She went to the window and her eyes widened swiftly. Val was plowing the field! As she watched, the plow slipped from his fingers and she saw him angrily dash the perspiration from his forehead with his shirt sleeve. For a moment she thought he was going to leave the team standing just where it was. Then he snatched up the plow and followed it doggedly up and down the furrows. They wobbled crazily, but he went on and on. Alicia's smile was tender as she let the curtain fall into place. He came down the road that evening and sat on her front steps in the early spring twilight. He lifted his left hand and showed her the blisters that stood out red and angry across the palm. He smiled shamefacedly. "I started to plow because I was so angry at you. But I got to liking it. It took me back to when I was a kid and followed Dad when he plowed." She laughed joyfully. "I used to follow, too, and get in the way. Do you think I'd get in the way if I followed you tomorrow?" "Td like it," he said, and added slyly, "if you won't be shocked if I grumble a little." Within a few days the field was plowed and planted. Gram smiled as she brought them tall glasses of cold milk and big wedges of spice cake. "It's like old times to have you two kids under foot again." She turned and looked at the house. 178 "The house would look the same, too, if it had a coat of paint on the windows and doors." "If that's a hint," said Val flatly, "I can't hear a word. Let Mr. Thurgood paint his own house, when he buys it." Mr. Thurgood seemed anxious to do it when he 
came to look the farm over. He strode about, a running fire of words falling from his lips. "I ll paint the woodwork gray to blend with the stones. And I'll
pull down those sheds and coops and build new ones.  He put his fingers in his vest and his chest swelled. "This can be the slickest farmhouse
in the community, once I get it fixed up." Gram grew pale as she listened to
him. "But the woodwork's always been painted white," she began, then turned and hurried away to look after her chicks. When Mr. Thurgood was gone,
Val asked Alicia to come with him to the tool house. There was a sort
of little-boy determination in his face. "There are some unopened cans
of paint in the shed. I bought too many five years ago when I painted the place. Gray woodwork will look homely with those gray stones. Mr. Thurgood doesn't know a thing about painting. He hasn't had much experience with farms. I'm sure
he'll like the woodwork painted white." He looked through tools and boxes,
baskets and gunny-sacks which had been pushed helter-skelter into the shed for four years, and emerged, dusty, yet triumphant, with the paint. Alicia helped him mix it and got a brush. Together they found the ladder and set it against
the bay window. Alcia was a great help. She handed Val things and ran back
and forth fetching and carrying. Once, her heart almost stopped when Val took something in his right hand. He doesn't know it, she thought breathlessly, hoping he wouldn't see the happiness shining in her face as she hid it beneath the soft veil of her lovely hair, but his fingers are beginning to respond to his need of them. When he doesn't think about his hand, he uses it a little.
CHE felt she had never been so happy in her life, watching this miracle happening to Val. In the evenings she and Gram sat on the porch and listened while Val worked out runs and arpeggios with his left hand, and once when he struck a wavering chord with his right. Gram's eyes filled with tears. "It's God's great work," she said simply to Alicia. As the days grew longer, a transformation took place in the land. The middle of April brought the
first rich ripples of growing things. The grass along the brook tossed greening fronds to peek into the flashing water. The buds on the trees in the orchard swelled and burst into the first white touches of blossoms-to-be.
Then, one night while Alicia and Gram were listening to the soft strains of Val's music, he stopped abruptly and came out upon the porch, standing there in the shadows so that they could not see his face. Words came haltingly, as if he
wanted to say them but was a little ashamed. "I've been thinking, Gram. Things look a lot different around here than they did when I first came. Today the farm looked almost beautiful, like it did when I was a kid." He stopped, stared
out into the shadows, and said more slowly than ever. PRELUDE TO SPRING "I've been wondering if I should sell it. After all, you like it here, and it's always been a good living for the Latimer men." The rocker Gram sat in creaked a little, and through the dusk Alicia saw the joy and wonder that flooded her faded eyes. "Yes," she said softly. "Yes, it's been a good living, and more than that, Val, it's been home." Val was silent for a long time. Then he said: "Winni's coming back tomorrow. I'm going to try to make her see it the way I do now. I'm going to ask her to stay." He swallowed quickly, and added: "I'm not going to ask her to give up her career. We're close enough to the city so that she can still sing with Hank. But this would be our home." He stepped back through the screen door and closed it softly. Alicia heard Gram's voice whispering a little prayer: "Thanks! Thanks, so much." 'Then Val's left hand swept over the keys and in another moment his right followed carefully. To Alicia the music was the sweetest she had ever heard. When Winni and Hank came back Winni jumped from the taxi and kissed Val. "Let Hank take care of the things, darling," she said, linking her arm through his. She gave Gram and Alicia a careless nod and began explaining about the club. "They were crazy about me, darling. People are hungry for music and a good time. I do hope you've been practicing your music lessons like a good little boy." Her smile was teasingly lovely. "Because I'm sure you'll make a hit with the left-hand beat." She followed him up the walk, 179 scarcely listening to what he was telling her about the paint and the plowing. At last, hearing a certain note of importance in his voice, she stopped and looked around. "It does look better, Val," she admitted carelessly, "if an old house and farm can look better. But you should see the apartment I've picked out. It's small, yet big enough to hold a grand piano. We'll both need it, you know." He did not answer as he opened the screen, but Alicia saw the old defeated look in his face. When he sat down to play the piano, he did not attempt to use his right hand. As time went by, Alicia realized with a sinking heart just how much ground Val had lost. He sat alone a good deal and the bleakness in his eyes hurt her. She found herself listening to hear his laughter, but it did not come. Winni mothered him prettily, assisting with the smallest tasks, worrying lest his hand bother him. The farm was neglected while Val banged out blue notes on the piano. Then Winni's short vacation was done, and Hank was packing his violin back into its case ready for the morning. Val was picking strains out upon the piano keys while Gram and Alicia washed up the milk pans. "Let's run through that Chopin polonaise once more," said Winni, and began the words in a low, pulsing tone. Val's left hand stumbled against a note, and she broke off angrily: "It's too lovely to spoil, Val. Try the Tschaikowsky. It's a novelty the way you do it with the left hand." "Yes," agreed Val harshly, "'it's a novelty," and Winni stared at him with astonished eyes. 180 "You say that as if you didn't like to play it," she said sharply, and burst out, "I don't know what's come over you Val, but you're changed. You don't seem to like doing my songs any more. I've tried to be kind when you missed the notes. I've tried to understand and be patient. I've tried to make you interested in a Career. But I've failed, Val. You'll never make a hit at the club. 'There's no use kidding yourself. If you could play with both hands..." She shrugged the matter away as quite hopeless, and said flatly, "Well, from now on, you've got to make up your Own mind. Do you want to be a left-hand pianist, or do you want to stay here on the farm and go to seed?" He didn't answer, and she followed Hank to the stairs. There she paused and said: "Things can still be the same if you want them to be, Val. Hank and I are leaving in the morning. If you decide to come, all you have to do is pack a bag." Her heels clicked sharply as she went up the steps. Val stood quietly in the hall until her bedroom door closed sharply. Then he went outside and Alicia heard him pacing up and down the walk. When she left to go home, he did not speak to her. A week later, he came marching along the road and entered her back door without more than a perfunctory knock. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 "The pussy willows are bustin' out all over," he said smilingly. "And those sugar beets are almost big enough to weed." He took the dish towel from her hand and drew her away from the sink. Without even waiting for her to put on a hat, he led her across the meadow to the edge of the brook. There he stopped and picked up a stick. He tossed it into the water and it slipped out of sight. "1 eft-handed solos aren't treasure enough," he said, and his eyes held hers, "I want my ship to bring back something more precious." His right hand stole up and cupped her soft chin, and his eyes looked deep into hers. "Tell me that it will, Lissa, darling. Tell me that it will bring love and happiness and everything a man wants from the world." His hand came down from her chin and went about her waist, strong and firm and determined, and he waited for her words. "Yes, Val," she said softly, "Yes, my dear. He held her close and kissed her. Then he let her go and stood arm in arm looking over his land. "Soon you'll be a Latimer, darling," he said softly. "Then as long as life lasts we'll watch through the winters of life for our preludes to spring. And they'll always come. No matter what happens now, spring will always come."  LESSON Katherine Fernelius Larsen I once rebelled at humdrums; now I find It is the lowly task, well-done, that frees the mind. Thrift Begins in the Garden Vesta P. Crawford With Illustrations by Betti Williamson THE most confirmed flower ???T rower has a new thrill coming - when he starts raising vegetables and fruit. Your own radishes for breakfast, your own strawberries '1 that shortcake for dinner it's quite a different sensation from going daily to the market, and much more satisfying both to your palate and your purse. Vegetables and fruits can be ornamental as well as useful. An apricot tree pruned to climb a wall looks quite as well as climbing ivy. Red tomatoes hanging on a trellis are quite as handsome as a lace vine. Dwarf currant bushes and gooseberries make excellent foundation plantings, and a border of curled parsley or dainty alpine strawberries is delightful. The ashen-leafed garden sage is attractive in the rockery, Perennials GR Fruit trees and mint and watercress are beautiful edgings for the lily pool. It is surprising how much food can be produced on a small plot of ground. In the suburbs, and even in the city, if you have a space six by ten feet, or larger, you can grow vegetables and fruit. The requirements are sunshine (for at least half the day), water, if the season is dry, either by "row" irrigation or sprinkling, and a reasonable amount of cultivation, at least enough stirring of the soil to eliminate weeds and keep the surface loose. The ground should be deeply spaded and heavily enriched with old, well-rotted manure or a balanced commercial fertilizer. Your county agent or State Department of Agriculture can furnish you with detailed information regarding the soil in your locality and the type of enrichment needed. Decaying leaves, wilted flowers, stems, peelings and meat scraps from the kitchen, all help to make the soil richer and more easily worked. Coarse material, such as leaves or lawn cuttings, may first be used as a mulch and later may be dug under. It is all a matter of planning. From the short row of bunch lettuce to the long row of carrots, from the box of herbs to the asparagus bed, it is all a matter of working out a pleasant problem. This is the most important thing to remember: Plant vegetables and fruits which will give the greatest yield for the smallest space. And, if you wish to be very economical, don't waste a spot large enough to grow a seed. In planning the plot use a large Piece of paper, some good seed catalogues, a stack of Magazines, and all   criticism and encouragement your family or the neighbors can give. In the first place, sketch in what you will want to do with the fence or border of your property and how you want to make use of the arbor or trellis. Here you may wish to make a decision between perennial vines, such as blackberries, boysenberries, or raspberries, and the quick-growing annuals such as beans, cucumbers, and tomato vines. It may take several years for the berry vines to produce in quantity, but annuals Sprout up quickly and can be trained to climb fences or decorate the arbor. They produce heavily and the crop will last until frost. From the cucumber vines along a single short fence, one may make pickles for winter, and tomato vines yield many quarts of juice for sunless days. E best tomatoes for the home garden are some type of the Earliana or Farthest North, hardy varieties which mature quickly. Fora novelty which will make 4 good showing on the fence, the small yellow-fruited varieties are excellent. Try the Yellow Pear or Yellow Plum for a bounteous yield of small, well-flavored fruits that are delicious in salads and convenient for garnishing and for marmalades. The long, slender varieties of cucumbers are by far the most satisfactory for slicing, THRIFT BEGINS IN THE GARDEN and the Burr Gherkin or Green Cluster are especially good for pickle making, For a Permanent household garden that will require little work, to consider perennials. Of these, asparagus is one of the best since a small bed will produce heavily for about three months each spring and will continue to yield for many years. For starting the bed, buy two or three-year-old roots and plant them carefully by the trench method which is explained in detail by circulars furnished with the roots.
A small patch of ever-bearing strawberries is a joy from the time of the appearance of the first juicy red berries in early summer until the coming of frost. Fresh strawberries for Thanksgiving, or even for Christmas, (in some localities) may be a dream come true. The standard variety is Mastodon, but both Lucky Strike and Gem are good types. You will be delighted with the marvelous way the strawberry plants sent out "runners" which may be dug up and set out again to form new plants that mature quickly and bear a heavy crop of firm, juicy berries. Keep the strawberry bed well hilled up and well watered and pick the crop regularly so that the plants will continue their abundant bloom.
Rhubarb is an old-fashioned delicacy that may be planted in any odd corner or along the ditch bank or near shrubbery. It is an extremely hardy perennial which yields its long red stalks of crisp fruit in the early spring when the winter's supply of canned fruit may be running low. MacDonald and Myatt's Victoria are standard rhubarb types. The former is more brilliantly colored and the
is required. The Victoria yields more heavily. The gardener who wants quick results will buy rhubarb roots rather than try his luck with slow, uncertain seeds.
YOU may not have thought of onions as perennials, but if you get the bunch, or "multiplier," sets and take care of them, they will grow for many years and continually produce mild, tender onions. A few garlic sets, also, will be handy for flavoring soups and salads. Many gardeners who value their space buy horseradish roots and raise their own relish. This plant spreads rapidly and once started is hardy as any weed and just as persistent.
The secret of making the most of a small garden plot is either to raise root crops that go down deeply into the soil or bush plants that take up little space. It is wise to avoid trying to raise corn, squash, potatoes, watermelons, or muskmelons in the very small garden. Peas require plenty of sunshine and room for breathing.
On the other hand, such small "bushes" as pepper plants and eggplants more than pay for their "keep" in their ample yield. Among root crops, beets and carrots do well in the small garden and turnips and parsnips are satisfactory. The "standbys" are lettuce and radishes. If seed for these is carefully chosen, a continual crop may be expected from early spring until late fall. Radishes may be stored for winter use and head lettuce is not hurt by light frost or even snow. "Bunch" lettuce, however, is the best type to grow where space is scarce, for such lettuce can be cut many times and will continue to grow large heads beautiful leaves that are crisp and green and full of vitamins. A succession of radishes may be obtained by following the method used by our pioneer grandmothers each time a radish is pulled a seed is dropped into the hole. The small, bulb-shaped radishes are best for early planting and the slender white ones are more satisfactory for fall and winter use.
Space should be utilized to its fullest extent, also, by setting out pepper plants and eggplants among the early radishes so that by the time the radishes are gone the other plants will be reaching their maturity. Some gardeners use the space where early vegetables have been harvested for planting head lettuce for late fall and early winter use. It is an interesting game to see what an amazing succession of crops may be achieved in a midget garden.
No household plot should be considered complete without a corner for herbs. These plants are divided into three groups aromatic, medicinal, and pot herbs. If one has space to spare he may wish to raise aromatic herbs or experiment with medicinal varieties, but the pot herbs are almost a necessity. Among the best known and most commonly used are:
Perennial Annual Chives Dill Parsley Sweet Marjoram Mint Sage Sweet Fennel
THRIFT BEGINS IN THE GARDEN For salads, soups, and for flavoring meats, these herbs are miracle workers. Some clever cooks use differ-ent combinations of herbs for steep-ing in vinegar to make exotic flavors that are intriguing, to say the least. Dill for pickles, mint for flavoring fruit juices, and sage for sausages, are only a mere beginning of what may be done with herbs. Most of these plants are so small that they may be used for borders around flower gardens or vegetable plots, but many gardeners prefer to make a special small bed near the kitchen door for the handy herbs. Yet even window boxes may be utilized for growing them. If you have trouble in finding a sunny spot for cucumber or tomato plants, try planting these useful ornamentals in tubs or barrels and set them along the edges of the cement path or in a corner of the porch. Dis-carded metal vats of different shapes and sizes, large kettles or cans, such as may be salvaged from junk yards, serve very well for this purpose. If you wish to be exceedingly thrifty put a hive of bees in the corner of y our yard and then even your flowers can be useful by producing nectar for the hive. Bees can be raised and cared for with very little expense and they are pleasant friends to have about. Buy prepared "combs" so that your bees can spend all their time making honey. Certainly a practical garden can be a real adventure along the road to self sufficiency, and you may find yourself providing the neighbors with occasional treats. You might even make some sales to the corner grocery. At least you can help to win the battle of the board bill. SANCTUARY Roberta Bates I find when I can face the world no longer, A solace here among the things you loved. This dusty chair before your battered desk, Where oft you sat to invite as fancy moved. Is cool and soothing to my aching head. And if those useless tears again should start To drop unheeded, it is just because These worn-out slippers left a deep imprint Upon my heart. Even the Frail Christie Lund Coles RITA BERNSTROM looked through the open window and knew that this was the hardest time of day to bear this hour between light and darkness when the earth and sky seemed luminous, bell like in their clarity. It was as if every sight and sound might break the heart the gilt of the sun sifting through the window, the cool, dark shadow of the lilac bush across the foot of the bed. She could hear the neighbor women clanging kitchen utensils as they Prepared the evening meal. She could hear the shouts of children, the slide of their roller skates. She could even hear the neighbor women clanging kitchen utensils as they prepared the evening meal. She could hear the shouts of children, the slide of their roller skates. She could even hear the grunt of the of the rope as two children "pumped" each other in the back-yard swing. Men were coming home from work, dogs were barking, running after the occasional car that passed on the quiet street, sending the dust spiraling upward. She closed her eyes, listened as the radio played softly an old tune that swept over her in waves of light and darkness, waves of memories that were gay and tender. She was in a pink tulle dress, leaning backward in Brock's arms, laughing, saying, "You wouldn't fool me, would you, Mister?" dancing, whirling. Brock was smiling his one-sided smile, slowly, briefly, telling her seriously, "I'll never fool you, Rita. I love you too much. I'm going to malty you and we're going to have..." Page 186 She murmured softly, "Yes. I know. We're going to have a white house with green shutters... And five sons and maybe a daughter." His arm tightened about her and she felt his lips on her hair. And maybe a daughter! What casual words. Sons weren't so important, she supposed, not when the daughter was Eleanor Eleanor with her dark hair and blue eyes, blue as the sky at noon, like morning glories in the sun. She turned her head on the rumpled pillows. She was terribly tired. That was strange because one shouldn't get tired just lying, just thinking.... After a moment, she opened her eyes. She heard footsteps on the porch. Through the window she could see Mrs. Smith's tall, gaunt form, her bony fingers clutching a Stay sweater about her. Rita's heart began pounding. Instinctively, she reached over to close her door. She didn't want to see anyone. But Mrs. Smith gave a brief knock and walked in. She stood in the doorway, looking appraisingly about the room before she said, "Still down? Oh, dear..." There was no point in reminding Mrs. Smith that she would be down for a long time yet, so Rita only repeated the words, "Still down." Then, "Sit over there, won't you?" The other woman shook her head, "No, I haven't time. I've got to get Supper going. There's always so much to do. You're lucky to be able to lie here and test. Sometimes, I think if I gave up..." She sighed as if words could not tell of her affliction. 'Tm sorry," Rita said, "what does the Doctor think is wrong?" 'The Doctor . . . pshaw! What do they know ? "Once more she looked about the room and Rita was aware of the dust, of the bed's disorder. Then Mrs. Smith was leaving, say-ing, "If there's anything I can do ... let me know." "RITA smiled ironically, closed her eyes. Her weariness was alive with a sudden, gnawing unhappiness. She wanted to weep, but there were no tears, not any more. Why did that woman come, why did anyone come, with their curious eyes. She wanted to be alone, to shut her door, to wait here in the stillness where even pain wasn't as real as the figures moving in her mind, the bits of poetry. Emily Dickinson had said, "I measure every grief I meet with analytic eyes. I wonder if it weighs like mine or has an easier size ..." She heard Eleanor and her friend coming in at the back door. For a moment she even resented that intrusion. She listened to them as they discussed a radio program of the night before. Eleanor was saying, "She said, 'Goodbye, goodbye Steve.' She was in love with him. Then she crashed.' " Suzanne, the other child, added, "Yes. She said 'Goodbye, goodbye Steve.' I don't get it . "'Now they were entering her room, bringing in the evening paper. They were so sweet, each emerging into long-legged little girlhood. Eleanor squeezed her tightly and asked, "Are you all right, Mommie? Is there anything you need?  Rita kissed her smooth, firm cheek, "Not a thing," she told her, remembering how each time her daughter went out to play she would place a glass of water beside her, some tissues, and her digitalis. She would say, "Now you won't need anything until I come back." Suzanne stood back smiling shyly. Rita was sorry she had even momentarily resented her coming in. There were no questions to be answered in a child's eyes, no doubt. Children took the world on faith. She reached out to the child and Suzanne came into her arms as naturally as vapor emerges into sun-light. "You're awful sweet," Suzanne said, squeezing her, "I love you." Eleanor looked puzzled as she asked her friend, "Why do you love my mother? I don't love yours." Suzanne only smiled, and Rita said, "I like her to love me." Then, "Shall I read you the funnies?" She knew that was the thing that had brought them in. And why not? Who would stop skating, swinging, just to ask how a sick person felt or if she wanted anything. Each of them curled up on the bed beside her while she read, but when she had finished she did not keep them there as she tried to do other nights, telling them Bible stories or little jokes. She was in no mood for talk. Her world had strangely become a dark snood, shut-ting out the reality of everything. And she didn't care. She didn't care. But Brock would be coming soon. He would come in, the dog jumping about his feet. He would put his lunch pail down on the kitchen sink, go into the bathroom, wash his hands, splash water over his face and dark hair, whistling as he did so. "Hello," he would say slowly, coming into her room, drawing the word out into almost three syllables. He would pick up the evening paper _where Eleanor had left it, glance at it, and finally, bend over and kiss her. Even after nine years of marriage it was not a perfunctory kiss. It was tender and warm and sometimes, she was sure, it said all the things, the "How are you, my dear? I hope you've had a good day," that he was too inarticulate to say. At times it hurt her that he didn't say more, ask more. Then she would remember one night when he took her in his arms and cried, brokenly, "Oh, I'm so sorry for you. So terribly sorry." She knew it was better this way. Neither saying what was in the mind, each pretending. And it wasn't hard to pretend when he was here, for something within her bubbled with warmth and elation... Especially on Sundays when he and Eleanor would prepare Sunday dinner, then bring it in on a gaily bedecked tray. Each would take credit for whatever was best, each would deny having made the lumpy gravy. OFTEN, when the dishes were washed, Eleanor would come in and they would play Chinese checkers. Brock would pretend complete interest in whatever he was doing in the living room but soon he would be drawn in, would ask with his slow, one-sided smile, "Do you think you can beat me?" "Oh, I daresay," she would assure him, smiling up into his eyes, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 watching him as he picked up the board, arranging the brightly colored marbles so they could all three play until she was tired and forced to sink further into the rumpled pillows. She knew she was lucky to have Brock, but there were times, like this, when she was overcome by a horrible, clawing ache. She resented this frail body with its great weariness, its swift heartbeats. She even resented him and his kindness. She didn't want him doing her work, having the neighbors pity him. She turned her head to the wall and let her eyes travel for the unnumbered time up the pink wall paper, trace the white flower upon it. Brock had papered a few months ago. He thought it would make lying here easier. But already there were smudges on it where Eleanor touched it when she crawled into bed with her after her daddy left in the morning. She sighed as she heard Brock's car in the driveway. Now, the game would go on. He would pretend he didn't mind having a wife who couldn't measure up to the name. She had been gay and _ vivacious when he had married her, though not as strong as some women because of an old heart ailment. But she had kept the house, taken care of things until after Eleanor's birth. Then, she had gradually grown more tired, less able to make her ener, teach... Until the collapse. She recalled the small, intent doctor telling her she would have to have complete rest for at least a year, maybe longer. She remembered telling Brock, "Some people in the world would make quick work of my kind of person. EVEN THE FRAIL They don't let them hang on and suffer." He had looked at her "Don't be silly." But it was true, and perhaps, it was better. Suddenly, she put her hands over her eyes as her mind's shutter opened on the picture of a little girl, her beautiful little daughter. Each day, almost each time she came into the house she called to her mother immediately after opening the door, called and waited. If there was no answer she called again, an urgency, a fear in her voice that, please God, should never have been there. Darkly, ROCK seemed slower in coming to her room. It seemed more of an effort for him to take his eyes from the paper and kiss her. And as he bent down, she saw new lines about his mouth, lines put there, no doubt, by worry and unhappiness. She asked him, through force of habit, "How is everything at the plant?" "Fine," he assured her, not noticing her preoccupation, the look in her eyes. Then, "what would you like to eat?" "It doesn't matter," she said quietly. It didn't matter. It would probably be the same as always, meat and potatoes, string beans or carrots, canned fruit from the basement. What would she like, really? Creamed chicken on toast, shrimp salad, something green and crisp and appetizing, something cool and light. He left her room and shortly afterwards she heard Gloria at the back door, Gloria Ross, the neighbor girl who came in on Saturdays and helped with the cleaning. "Hi" she greeted Brock now, "how'd you like me to come and help get supper?" "Fine," he assured her, "you said you would some time. I'm getting tired of my own cooking. Not that it's not good, mind you." Gloria laughed, "Oh, I'm sure it is delicious." She was soon rattlin pans in the small, bright kitchen, the kitchen Rita loved with its crisp white and red curtains, the huge bay window which caught both the morning and the afternoon sun. She had so loved working there, baking on cloudy days, ironing. They talked of the good weather, Gloria's school work. Then she squeeled, "Turn on the radio! Har. Ty James! And is he the stuff?" After a second she went on, "Or can Mrs. Bernstrom stand it?" "She doesn't mind," Brock assured her, stepping into the other room to snap the radio on. Ordinarily it wouldn't have bothered her, but tonight it seemed the jive music was pounding upon her. But she didn't speak of it. She reached over to close her door and as she did so, she could see into the kitchen, could see Gloria holding out her dress, doing a little dance step as she told Brock, "This is getting in the groove." ITA could see the smile on Brock's face, the youngness there that she hadn't seen in a long time, too long. The thought came to her and she couldn't get it out of her mind  that he might care for Gloria. After all, it could be. She was young and vivacious, all the things his wife had left behind. And she couldn't blame him. It didn't matter. She was in 190 a place apart from them, a place with a closed door between. She heard a car door close outside just as Brock and Gloria were taking out her dishes. Brock said, "I guess that's Peter. I met him yesterday and he said he was coming out." Rita brushed at her hair with fluttering hands, "Why didn't you tell me?" she asked. "I guess I never thought of it," he answered casually, "I'll let him in." Gloria hurriedly gathered up the paper on the bed saying, "Til fix these then beat it through the back door." As Gloria slipped away Rita heard the voice of her husband's brother. He was successful, immaculate, somewhat condescending. She knew where his sympathies lay. And why not? Why shouldn't he pity Brock with his nose to the grindstone, paying doctor bills, growing old before his time. Once more she wanted to close the door, but Brock was bringing him in, he was asking how she felt, saying cheerfully, "You're going to be all right." "Of course," she agreed. Course." Just like that! After a few more words the two men went out and she reached over and closed her door quietly. She wouldn't need to see him again since it was an agreement between her and her husband that when it was shut she did not want to be disturbed. She thought she could sleep, but sleep was for those who were at peace, those who were weary from work or play. She heard the two brothers step out onto the front porch. She heard "Of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 Eleanor talking to her dolls in her own room. The spring evening was sweet and still. Through the open window she could have heard the two men talking but she didn't listen, she didn't want to listen until she heard Brock say, "How is Erma?" Erma was Pete's wife. She was everything that Rita wasn't, "disgustingly healthy," she described herself. Impervious, and beautiful. Peter answered, "She's fine I imagine." Then, "I seldom see her. She's forever at this luncheon or that club." "War work, too, I suppose," Brock went on. She was amazed at the irony in Peters voice, "Erma? Don't be funny." Brock told him that she, Rita, had written many letters to soldiers, and knit a couple of sweaters. He was trying to justify her lying here, she thought. Peter said, "She doesn't look too well. She's lucky to have you." Her husband didn't speak and she held her breath as she waited. She heard him laugh shortly before he disagreed, "Oh, I don't know." He seemed to be trying to find words and she thought: Now, all the bitterness and tiredness and resentment will come out. After a moment, he said, "No, Peter, she's not especially lucky. I'm the lucky one. She's so darn sweet. She has taught me a lot of things." After a moment, he went on hesitantly, "You know, Pete, if we were all strong we wouldn't ever need fight a defensive war. In many countries they 'take care' of the weak, put them out of the way, here, we fight for them, for the right of EVEN THE FRAIL even the frail to live and do good in their own way. Who knows, it may be a farther-reaching good than that of the strong." Suddenly, her nails dug into the flesh of her palms, they were wet with perspiration. Peter laughed good-naturedly, almost enviously, "Then I suppose you are both mighty lucky." Brock agreed, "Yes. I think we're ALL mighty lucky. Just living in America is really something." There was no tiredness in his 191 voice, no bitterness, just the honest goodness that was Brock. He wasn't sorry for her. He thought she was lucky, AND SHE WAS. She was. She turned her face to the pink wallpaper and lay very still looking at it, at the gray smudges. Tears, good, healing tears filled her eyes, spilled on her cheek. She reached over to the closed door, opened it wide, calling as she did so, "Eleanor, darling, don't you want to come in and say your prayer by my bed?" SHE HANGS THE LINEN ON THE LINE Dott J. Sartori Here is snow impervious To March's melting weather. Here is white unsullied as An egret's flowing feather. Here, in intermittent drifts, In cities without number, Are hung the linens of the land, Companions of our slumber. Here will snow shine glacier-clean As long as there shall be A home and need, and one who smooths A pillow tirelessly. The Best Little Shrub Mabel Harmer LINE MORTENSEN arose A briskly from the luncheon table and started putting leftovers back in the refrigerator. "What's the rush, Mother?" asked her husband mildly, teaching for another of the fresh, sugar-coated doughnuts, "are Tidwells having another remnant sale?" "It's my day to go visiting teaching and Henry!" she exclaimed, stopping short in the midst of scraping the jelly dish, "that's at least five doughnuts! Is that what you call watching your waistline?" "You shouldn't tempt me," he sighed. "I'll start cutting down tomorrow I think. What was that song you were singing a while ago?" "Oh, something I heard at Church the other day, It goes like this: If you can't be a pine on the top of the hill Be a shrub in the valley, but be The best little shrub by the side of the rill Be a bush if you can't be a tree. That's all I can remember. I just thought it sort of fitted me. I've always been the shrub type never had any big positions in the Church like Emmaretta and some of the others. She's been put in the Relief Society stake presidency now, you know. I guess being a visiting teacher is about as high as I'll ever get." "Well, you're a pine around this house," said Henry gallantly, as he pushed back his chair, "and don't let any of those female women keep you talking until you're late for dinner." "Don't you ever think of anything but eating?" sighed Aline, taking off her kitchen apron and hanging it in the broom closet. "Sure. Right now I'm wondering if I have time fora ten minute snooze before I have to get back to work." "No. But take it anyway or you'll be worrying about it all afternoon. Shall I wear my navy dot this afternoon or the rose print? Isn't it nice to have two dresses so that you can choose between them?" "Wear the rose, of course," answered Henry, breaking his yawn in the middle. "If you're going to be a shrub you might as well be a rose shrub. And don't forget to come home. When you and that Janet Meeks get together " "Janet can't go today," said Aline, bustling off to the bedroom. "I have to go alone." "Well, don't forget to come home anyway. I get mighty lonesome while you're making up formulas for the Wilkins baby and reading to old Sister Ballard." "Why, Henry," chuckled Aline. "You know that I don't do that very often." "No, just once a month," he answered drowsily. HALF an hour Jater Aline, fresh as a June morning in her rose print and white linen hat, was hurrying down the street. "I do hope that Retta Hubbard has good news of her grandchild by now," she mused, "and that Ellen Crabtree has decided to try and get along with her THE BEST LITTLE SHRUB mother-in-law. Dear me, it's always something and it's so hard to decide just how much I can do without going too far." As she turned onto a neat walk, lined with brilliant petunias, she added, "I wish that everyone was as nicely settled as Daphne Rhoades here. A pretty new home, a fine young husband and a darling baby. I'll just peek in here for a minute and then hurry on." Daphne Rhoades sat staring across the luncheon table with unseeing eyes. The sound of a back door as Rod had slammed it shut barely registered on her consciousness. A door crashing was nothing when her whole world had just gone to smash. This was most certainly the end. There was no use trying to make a go of it any longer. She might just as well get out and find a job now while she was still young and had only one child to support. Mentally she rehearsed the bitter scene that she and Rod had just been through as if trying to convince herself that it had really happened. Within ten minutes after he had come home for lunch she had known that something was wrong when he failed to go in to the baby or mention the scones which were his special favorite. Pausing by his chair, she had laid down the plate with the piping hot scones and, tweaking his ear playfully, had said, "All right, out with it. Have you quarreled with the boss or lost that wallet I gave you for Christmas?" "Tt's worse than that," he had answered heavily. "Sit Daphne. I night just as well tell you first as last. Uncle Steve came in down, 193 this morning to see me. He's in an awful jam. Aunt Marty's just had an operation and he had to have three hundred dollars for the hospital. 3 told him how it was with us but " "Oh, Rod!" she cried. "You didn't give it to him? Not again!" "But Daphne," he pleaded, his eyes looking tragically old in his young face, "what else could I do? He had to have some money and there wasn't another soul he could turn to." "He'd have had to turn somewhere else if you hadn't given it to him," she answered stonily. "Everyone else comes first with you and it's your own family last. You know how badly I want this house. And we've worked so hard to make that down payment. When I think of how I've scrimped and saved one nickel at a time to get that three hundred dollars and then you hand it over without even asking me. Now Jones will sell it to someone else." The first of the hot tears came, to be followed by many more. "There wasn't any need of asking you," said Rod tonelessly. "He had to have it. And he'll make every effort to pay it back." "He may have the best intentions in the world but it will be the same story over again," she retorted. "Your father intended to pay his back too, when he got the money for that extra piece of land." "But he will, just give him time," interrupted Rod. "Two years is quite a bit of time," said Daphne icily. "And then your sister had to have the next bit to go to New York." "But Jed only had a week's furlough and maybe it's the last time 194 she'll ever see him. I couldn't refuse  not my own sister," he pleaded. "Don't I know it?" she snapped. "And now here it is again. And not even one of your own family. Next you'll be handing out our savings to every acquaintance that comes along and happens to be in a tight pinch and I never will have a home of my own or any security. Well, I'm not going to stand for it. I'll get out and earn my own money and keep it where your relatives can't get their hand's on it." It was at this point that Rod, white-faced and shaken, had risen from the table, without ever having touched his lunch, and gone out of the house, and now Daphne, in her agitation, sat rocking the baby and giving vent to her angry thoughts and emotions by talking aloud to the baby. REALIZING, half unconsciously, that she would have to act quickly while her resolve was supported by anger, she set the baby down in his crib, brought out a couple of suitcases and started to pack. She was interrupted by the ringing of the doorbell, and hastily dabbing a bit of powder over the tell-tale streaks on her face, she picked up the baby and went to the door. She drew a quick sigh of relief when she saw that it was Sister Mortensen, the visiting teacher. She was such a pleasant, understanding soul. Just the sort of person to whom she could tell her troubles if she knew her a little better or if this were the sort of thing that she could tell to anyone. "Do come in," she said, opening the door, and while her guest was being seated she smoothed the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 baby's clothing and her own feelings at the same time. "I love to come here," said Sister Mortensen, sinking down into a large chair. "It's such a delightful room. I believe you said that you were thinking of buying the house." "Yes we were thinking of it," replied Daphne, a bit unsteadily. "But I'm afraid we've changed our minds " now "Oh, dear! I do hope that you aren't going to move away," exclaimed Aline. "I'd be terribly sorry to lose you from my district. It's such a pleasure to know a fine, normal young family like yours in these days of change and divorce." "Yes," agreed Daphne hesitantly, "there is more divorce now than in your day, but perhaps times are different perhaps there is more reason for it now." "Bosh, child, times are no different and people are no different. I guess there've been mighty few couples that it didn't take a lot of stamina and forgiveness and just plain intestinal fortitude to stick a marriage out what with _ taxes, measles and plumbing repairs always cropping up at the wrong time." "But not you, I'll bet," ventured Daphne with a smile. "You look so good-natured and even-tempered that I imagine an'. Earthquake wouldn't upset you." "Yet, even I ran home to my mother once," she returned with a chuckle. "That is, I went part way before I realized how silly I was behaving and turned back. And it was all on account of a sick dog that Henry brought home and was nursing on my best satin living room pillow. I still want to laugh when I THE BEST LITTLE SHRUB 195 

????think about It but I was Plenty upset be tearing his hair out jg I'm late at the tim getting home p njoyed visiting Daphne took off the baby's Shoes th you again," 80 that he could le his toes lux "Thank YOu, it's be nice having unously d, lowered  s, you Call," Teturned D as she asked, "But there are times don't Walked with her guest +   door you think, when 4 Couple js Justified The Nute j  Closed she In S parating?" Tushed back to the b om and put "Per 4PS, On very rare Occasions MMy in his cx with such violence ut, my 800dness, wha 4 Woman, 0 that he Sent fo Protesting niek er, will  n she lifteg her h If-fille Suit. Sve up for what IS called 'freedom,' Case to the cedg Chest and Started to all the love and heartach   JOYS and unpack, J Only a Matter of sorrows, that g0 into the aking of a minutes before } T dresses Were once full life The person ho hasn't h d more hanging the closet and other 4 chance tg Petience some of the things rety d their Toper Cartaches has Missed g Wwonderf,] Places in th dresser drawers Chance for growth." "It's a 800d thing that I didn't 'Tm sure Oure right," Said have time to Pack your stuff, uster," Daphne, quietly pattin Jimmy's 9. She said h th dorably Plump little Je ere | L s Pushed the Other Suitcase out of sight, ith that # complished, ME ssage,"" sai Aline, sud. D denly diving j t  n floor or dig u i 4 patch of the aCK yard before you to Nd, not the giver Nor the do anything diculous nd don't sift, but need and joy   person orget," she continy Who is to 5 the Tecipient of one's love and good ull The baby gurgled happily and   then went back   ini e; Pink toes. Daphne Walked aphne, dropping her head to the dressing table and brushed her baby's So that Visitor Wouldn't soft... ) Gainsborough Painting, and Henry Pretends to * Re & y 196 Aline glanced hastily at her watch as she came down the walk from the away generous Pieces, Don't that's the celery or lettuce kind of an afternoon did you have? , What RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE March 1946 Anything new on the beat?" "On the distri e commented, han Ng Over the Paring knife. T a pine, Darling, Just a she reminded him with q ???

PATTERN Eleanor Welch Schow Father, the world is filled with pain and woe. By night the terror walks; The hearts of men wax cold; the arrow flies By day; gaunt hunger stalks The weak and poor. The while, in this blest land, Laden, the orchards bend. While apples, red and gold, and purple plums In gorgeous colors blend With grasses green, like orient carpets spread Upon the earth. Yet we Hoard and are loth to heed the orphan's cry. Drift, and are slow to see Their need. Father, God, show us, we pray. The path to life eternal, the straight way. PATTERN   197 II Over a hundred years ago, a Prophet called A small assembly, gathered in Christ's name To do the deeds of loving charity That everyone must do who dares to claim Christ as a brother. He revealed to them A plan, a call to women to unite In loving kindliness and sisterhood To help the erring find the path of right. This way they passed along the stretch of years And grew in strength and knowledge every day; They blazed a trail through suffering's wilderness And placed their pattern along the way. Today, one hundred thousand members march In strength of womanhood. This is no wraith Of something that has been; this sisterhood Has shown the world one hundred years of faith! The hearts of these fail not in times of stress. But bravely show the weak the way to cope With sin; they nurse the sick and aid the poor. Supported by one hundred years of hope. The lamps of loving kindness ever burn Behind them on the trail with clarity. To show the path their steady feet have trod. Throughout a century of charity. Ill Dear God, forgive the selfish ones who hoard their food While hungry children cry; Forgive the petty stores of pretty silks, When men must chill and die. Help us, as they, along the ways of want To let our light so shine That all may see and glorify thy name! May we true Christians be; Give us the eyes to see, the will to show Unfailing charity. To leave for all who follow through the strife This pattern along our path of life.  197 And For Eternity Olive Woolley Burt CHAPTER 10 (Conclusion ) THE spring days floated by as lightly as almond blossoms, each one filled with the perfume of growing things and the sweetness of spring breezes but each one bringing closer the day when Alec's and Jim's leave would end. Now Alec begrudged the hours that Delsa spent with Jeff Holden's children. "Don't go over there tonight, Delsa," he would beg. "I've such a few days left. Let's go riding up to our boulder." Sometimes she would listen to his pleading and would barely glance in on the children and then would hurry home, slip into her rodeo pants and plaid shirt, saddle and bridle Blue Star, and meet Alec. 'Then they'd ride, galloping along the road, cutting across the brush-covered flat, urging their horses up the steep canyon paths. Delsa liked these afternoons best of all, because while they were riding Alec looked almost completely happy. Of course, when they stopped, he was bound to look gloomily into the future, but often she could think of places to go that were far enough away so that they had no time for these pensive talks. At other times Delsa would have to stay at Jeff's till quite late, taking care of the youngsters, soothing Mrs. Reeder's ruffled spirits. Davy, though still a baby, was almost more than the tactless and inexperienced woman could handle. Page 198 Delsa understood what was wrong with the little boy no, not wrong with him but what caused him to act as he did. It was spring. The warm air invited the youngster to come outdoors and play. And he would answer that invitation, playing until he was too weary to mind what he was told, too utterly worn out to obey even the simplest com-- mands, and Mrs. Reeders commands were not always simple. Then again, the spring thaw made many fascinating mud puddles, and Davy could not keep his hands and feet out of the inviting mixture. 'T'his made extra work for his guardian, and extra work meant irritability. So, very often when Delsa went to the little house she found Davy in tears, and Mrs. Reeder scolding. It took time to bring order out of this chaos, and Delsa would forget that Alec was waiting impatiently while she bathed the little boy, gave him warm supper, and got him into bed. Trudy, still too young to make the mischief her brother made, and yet old enough to care for herself a little, was a different kind of worry to Delsa. Mrs. Reeder would put the baby in her pen and leave her alone for hours. Because she was a good baby and happy under most circumstances, she was left alone too much, and Delsa could think of hundreds of accidents that might happen to the child. The truth was, Delsa admitted to Alec one night when he was scolding her for neglecting him, the children AND FOR ETERNITY were becoming so dear to Delsa that she hated to be away from them. She might chafe at the responsibility that included keeping Mrs. Reeder happy, but the care of the children was sheer pleasure. BETWEEN Jeff and Delsa had risen an icy barrier of reserve. Jeff seldom came into the house while Delsa was there, but as it was planting time and he had his farm to care for as well as his job, his staying outside until after she left was excusable. At school he talked to her quietly, friendly enough when there was something that had to be said; the rest. Of the time he left her to herself. One afternoon Alec was waiting outside the schoolhouse when Delsa came out on her way to Jeff's. "Listen, Delsa," he said eagerly, "let's saddle the horses and ride down the valley this afternoon. Jim's been telling me about an old Indian that lives out about four miles and I want to see him. A real Indian! I don't know why no one ever told 22 me about him before! "Old Chickup!" laughed Delsa. "I guess no one thought he was worth telling about. We never even think of him." "Jim says he has a wonderful collection of authentic arrowheads. I do want to see them, Delsa. Let's go. You can show me the way." Delsa shook her head. "I'd love to, Alec, but I can't tonight. I promised Davy that if he'd be a good boy today I would show him how to make windmills like the first graders. I can't disappoint him." "You can disappoint me, though," 199 Alec said sulkily. 'Look, Delsa, you'll have those kids to tend as long as you want them. I think Jeff Holden has imposed on you long enough. He can hire someone to tend his kids for him and not tie you down this way all the time. Tell him you're not coming tonight." "Tt isn't Jeff's fault that I go over there, Alec," Delsa said soberly. "I really think Jeff would be glad if I didn't have to come, but I do have to. He can't get anyone else. You know for yourself how busy everyone is. "Don't I, though!" grumbled Alec, and added angrily, "If I could have found anyone else to show me, I wouldn't have bothered you, knowing that you'd rather play nursemaid." "You're being childish, Alec," Delsa said quietly. "I've really got pe) to hurry! "Well, hurry then; nothing's stopping you!" he answered shortly, and turned and walked swiftly away. Delsa felt as if he had actually slapped her, and her face burned with anger and resentment and shame as she ran down the road to Jeff's house. Davy hadn't been a good boy, she found when she entered the house, and Mrs. Reeder, exasperated beyond her forbearance, had taken matters into her own hands. Delsa found Davy sobbing as if his heart would break and when she went to pick him up she cried out in anger and surprise. He was tied to the table leg with a short length of rope  tied so tightly that the rope cut into his fat little middle, obviously hurting him. Delsa's hands were shaking as she 200 undid the rope, and, with the child in her arms, went to the kitchen to face Mrs. Reeder. D=ELS4: was so angry that she took no pains to hide her feeling, and Mrs. Reeder, evidently chagrined at the justice of Delsa's complaint, took refuge in her old challenge. "You ain't my boss, Miss Delsa, and you can't talk to me that way. I got along all right with Jeff till you came buttin' in, and I don't aim to stand and listen to you any longer. I'm quitting!" She grabbed her shawl from its peg and threw it over her head and walked majestically out of the house. Delsa sat down in the kitchen rocker and held Davy close. She had butted in. And now she had lost Jeff's only help. Well, there was nothing she could do about it just yet, though she would have to find a way to make things right later. She comforted Davy and picked up Trudy from her play pen to find the baby wet and cold and unhappy. Delsa set to work in her usual brisk way and almost forgot her anger at Mrs. Reeder and at Alec as she held the tiny body close and whispered _ comforting words to the whimpering child. She was so busy that when she heard the door open she thought only that Jeff had come in. She started in surprise when she heard Alec's voice, "Delsa, I'm sorry. I've come to apologize." "That's all right, Alec," Delsa said. "I suppose you do think it's unnecessary for me to put so much time in over here, but if you only knew the truth of it! If you only knew Mrs. Reeder!" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 Alec came across the room, and Delsa was so absorbed in her task that she didn't think how strange it was for the marine to be using Jeff's house so freely. "Where's Jeff?" Alec asked, and Delsa said without looking up, "He's outside, plowing, I guess. I hardly ever see him," she added, scarcely knowing she did so. Delsa put the last spoonful of mush into Trudy's mouth, wiped the baby's face and hands on a damp napkin, untied her bib, and sat back in the low rocker to cuddle the little girl for a moment or two before putting her into her crib. Alec stood above her, looking down, smiling in a queer sort of way. "You look like a madonna, sitting there, Delsa," he said huskily. Delsa laughed. "T don't feel much like one. I have been so angry I've scared Mrs. Reeder clear away, and I'm afraid it's for good." She rose and carried Trudy into the bedroom and laid her down gently. "Go to sleepy-bye, darling," she whispered, and turned to leave the room. Alec had followed Delsa in, and now he said, putting his arms about her, "Delsa, darling, now the kid's asleep, you can break away, can't you?" Delsa drew back sharply, saying, "Don't, Alec!" He looked at her and anger began to burn in his eyes again. '"What's the matter?" he asked gruffly. "What's so horrible about me putting my arms around you? I've done it often enough, haven't I?  AND FOR ETERNITY DELSA had been surprised at her own reaction. She had never before felt the dislike toward Alec that she felt at that moment. It was almost as if he had asked her to be unfaithful..... Delsa caught her breath at the thought that had sprung into her mind. She looked up at Alec and the wonder of her discovery gave a special glow to her eyes. "Delsa!" he cried, forgetting his anger in the radiance of that look. "Please go, Alec!" she said, and there was such finality about the request that Alec turned slowly, unquestioningly, and left the house. Delsa went into the kitchen. She wanted to sing and dance. She caught Davy up from the chair where he had been busy making his pinwheel, and held him close, kissing him. Then she set him down again, took Mrs. Reeder's abandoned apron from the nail behind the door and set to work to get Jeff's and Davy's supper. Davy laughed in delight at her. "You look funny in that apron!" he said. 'You look like a a ",, he couldn't think of a word. "A good old witch!" Delsa said, laughing back at him. "A good old witch that's going to get supper now for Davy and his daddy. Do you want to help, Davy?" It was growing dark in the kitchen and Delsa lighted the kerosene lamp, smiling to think that Jeff's house was so old-fashioned. Then she remembered that it was off the main line and she thought, as soon as the war's over, he can have a line run up here, I guess. Davy was putting the knives and forks on the table and Delsa was at 201 the stove with her back to the door when Jeff came in. She heard the door shut and turned, but she was in the shadow and Jeff hardly looked at her. Davy ran to his father. "Daddy! Daddy!" he cried, "Aunt Delsa's here. She's getting supper! I'm helping her!" Jeff turned then, and looked at Delsa, as she stood there in front of the stove with Mrs. Reeder's apron almost hiding her. "Delsa!" he said "What's the matter? Where's Mrs. Reeder? Delsa thought his voice was harsh, and her own voice caught a little as she went toward him. "Oh, Jeff! I'm so sorry! But I got angry at Mrs. Reeder and she left for good, I'm afraid." Jeff looked at her blankly. "I ll help, Jeff, until she comes back or we find someone else. That's why I stayed tonight to get your supper. It's all ready." She was trying to appear nonchalant, calm, but there was a strange radiance in her heart. Jeff turned without a word and went into the bathroom to wash. When he came out, Delsa was leaning over Davy, putting some hot scrambled eggs onto his plate. She straightened up, the serving dish still in her hands. Jeff stood just inside the doorway. He looked at her with such a strange intensity that Delsa set down the dish she was holding and went across the room and stood in front of him. "Delsa," Jeff said quietly, "I appreciate all you have done. But you had better go now." His voice broke suddenly. "I can't bear to have you here like this and not " 202 SUDDENLY his arms went around her and he was holding her tight against him. He bent his head, pressing his lips against her hair. "Delsa! Delsa! I love you so! I can't bear to have you near me and know that you do not love me!" Delsa lifted her face to his and the same wonder that had dazzled Alec an hour before now shone out, unafraid. "But I do love you, Jeff! Oh, I do!" Jeff's arms dropped to his sides and he leaned back against the door frame, as if he needed some support to steady him in what he was going to do.  "No, Delsa," he said firmly, "you don't love me. You feel sorry for me, maybe, and I know you love the children but not me!" Delsa put her hands 6n his shoulder, lifted herself on tiptoe, her lips raised. "Kiss me, Jeff! Kiss me, and you'll know that I love you truly, deeply, as a woman should love the man she marries." Unbelief stood stark in his eyes as he whispered, "You don't mean  you can't mean " "Jeff, listen. You need so much convincing. Alec was here a little while ago. He put his arms about RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 me, here in your house, and I felt so alarmed I thought to myself, it is just as if he had asked me to be unfaithful to my husband because I was thinking of you, Jeff, though I didn't know it. I do want to marry you, Jeff I've loved you so long only I didn't know it, Jeff! I didn't know it!" Jeff didn't need any more convincing. His arms went close around her, he kissed her uptumed face and she answered his kisses and he knew then that her whole heart was his. And Delsa, standing in the circle of his arms, feeling Jeff's kisses, was at last content. Gone were her doubts and fears, her anxiety over what others might say or think. There was only Jeff Jeff and the babies, and later, of course, other babies of her own. This was what she wanted, above everything else in life and in eternity. Her hands went to Jeff's head, felt the soft, thick hair, pressed his head down toward her. Her lips were on his. They were oblivious to everything but this moment of surrender. Then Davy ruthlessly startled them, crying, "Supper's getting cold, Aunt Delsa! Come 'n eat!" Laughing, hand in hand, Delsa and Jeff went to the table and sat down in the circle of light from the little lamp.   CALL OF SPRING Beatrice K. Ekman Over the sodden fields, the March winds blow, And dormant seeds within the wet, cold sod, Long under cover of the winter's snow, Stir, as the warm sun sends its rays abroad. Soon now we'll hear again the sweet refrain Of mourning doves' soft cooing in the lane. _ OFS. Lady-in Waiting Marguerite J. Griffin HE little old lady was so small T and slight that she hardly made a swell in the bed cover. I wondered what I would say to her, meeting her for the first time this way. Her granddaughter whom I was visiting would not let me leave until. I had seen her. "For she will not be with us long, you know. She is very old, almost ninety-five. She isn't sick. Her body is just wearing out, becoming weaker and weaker. There isn't much for her to do, just waiting like this, and she has always loved people. Seeing you will brighten her whole day." This suggestion did not make me happy. I dreaded going into her room. I had always thought old age at best was a tragic time of life. And now to meet a human being who was just waiting for her mechanism to stop functioning, who was waiting for death to walk in at her door  But there was nothing I could do. I couldn't refuse if I might brighten one last moment. But how? What should I say to her? I had worried needlessly. I realized that the moment I saw her bright brown eyes twinkle at me from the wrinkled parchment of her cheeks. They told me at once that within her frail body was a spirit very much alive and alert. Her hands upon the counterpane were almost as white as the cover, and transparent so that the blue veins were plainly visible. Her hair was white like soft wavy strands of silk, a little scanty, but gently circling her face. She patted the locks in place as her bright eyes looked up at me eagerly. A smile scattered the wrinkles into new places but filled her countenance with a warm glow. "Sit down, my dear." Her voice was a little thin and tremulous. "I'm so pleased to meet you. You look so full of life. I bet you have children to care for." "Yes, three of them. But sometimes I don't feel so full of life." "They are wearisome, the little ones. But it's the happiest time of your life. Still, I don't know. All of life is good. I've seen a lot of it, too, my dear. And there's nothing quite like grandchildren and greatgrandchildren, and even great-greatgrandchildren. Oh, I'm very old, you know. I've seen a lot of things, a lot of change." Her voice faded away as if her thoughts were traveling faster than she had the power of speech to convey them. Then suddenly she started on another subject. "Jenny," she said to her granddaughter, "show the lady my new dress." A new dress at her age, in her bedridden condition? It was fantastic. Was there vanity still left, after all these years, in this little gnarled creature? Jenny brought it as if there were nothing unusual in the request. It was white silk crepe, dainty with lace. I know astonishment was on my Page 203 204 face, for the old lady said: "It's my burial gown, you know. And ['ll be wearing it soon." THE words were so gentle I couldn't gasp, but my heart was beating fast. It was the strangest thing I had ever seen. A beautiful gown like a bride's, and the little old lady positively anticipating the wearing of it. "Show her the rest, Jenny. The slip and the stockings. "You seem surprised. Maybe you hadn't thought the resurrection would be such a practical affair, but it will. There is no death really, only a change, a separation. The spirit leaves the body until the morning of resurrection." I could see why she could be so calm with a philosophy like that. I could see why her granddaughter was so sweet, so patient in her attentions toward the old lady. "It is a beautiful belief," I said. "Not a belief, my dear, but a truth." Her words were calm and quiet. She was not filled with the fire of a fanatic, but she was sure of her convictions. Besides, I didn't want to argue with her. I envied her peace of mind, her assurance. "It's a wonderful story, the story of man," she went on. "It's the story of change and progression, and we must be ready for each new thing. We lived before we came to this world, you know. Before this world was built. Our spirits were sons and daughters of God our eternal Father, and we lived with him." There was a soft glow on her face. Her eyes were mellow almost as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 if the vision were before them, or, as if being so close to death, to returning from whence she came, she caught the gleam and could remember. Then she looked at me quickly, as if sensing my thoughts. "It's all in the Bible, you know. It's not something I've made up. It's there, but the world tries to explain it away. Man thinks he is so great and, being a son of God, he does have a noble heritage. But can he hope to understand the business of our Heavenly Father any more than a child can understand the works of his earthly father? A toddler cannot comprehend how his mother makes cookies, but he accepts them, none the less, and munches upon them happily. So should we eat of the Bread of Life. So should we accept it, without worrying about how it will be accomplished. God has spoken. That should be enough. Jenny, hand me my Bible and my glasses." HAT! Could this little shrunken creature still use her bright eyes to read? What a blessing when she loved the Book so much! You could tell the gentle way she handled its worn pages. You could tell she had spent a lifetime reading it, for she found her passages with ease. "Listen to the words of the Lord to Job: "Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare if thou hast understanding.' " Her sharp eyes peered at me over the spectacles as if she were challenging me to answer. "When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy,' we were there LADY-IN-WAITING and we were that glad over the earth the Lord was building for us." She closed her book and removed her glasses. "But time is short, my dear. We are born, we live and grow, and just as we reach our prime, when our mental powers are at their best, our bodies wither, wane and die. It is as Paul says." And now she was quoting her scripture from memory. If there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen.... And if Christ be not risen, then is your faith vain.... If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the first fruits of them that slept..... For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death..... Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? I was speechless. I, who had come in to brighten an old lady's moment, 205 had found it was she who had so much to give. She misinterpreted my silence. "But I'm sorry. I've tired you with my preaching. You must forgive me." "Oh, no. I must thank you very much." For even then I knew I would never forget her. What a triumph to grow old so gracefully, and even in her weakness be a source of strength to all who came her way! When next I saw her, and it was not very long after, she lay in state, daintily gowned in the dress whose beauty was its purity of color, its simplicity of style. Every lock of her white hair was neatly in place. Her hands, unadorned save for a heavy gold wedding band, lay quiet and at rest. Death had softened her features as if it had been welcome. No bride ever looked more lovely. It was as if she slept ever so gently, just waiting for her Master's voice to bid her rise. Oa SPRINGTIME IN THE WEST Lydia Hall Bright spots of heaven shining through The petals of a blossomed tree, A greening field whence, throbbing, comes The lark's loud song of ecstasy; The changing crimson of a hill Agleam with rain and flowers bright, A well-loved river's wide expanse Reflecting shadows and the light; The scented fingers of the sage Upon the desert's sunburnt breast, The pulse of life and loveliness, And springtime comes again out West.  NEWS FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS (Continued) Finland District, European Mission HE following excerpts are from a recent report from Europe sent to Elder Thomas E. McKay: "The acting Mission President, Elder C. Fritz Johansson and Elder Claus A. Person from Malmo, accompanied by Sister Astrid Johansson, a representative from the Mission Relief Society Board, made a journey to Finland August 7, 1945. "Journeyings in Finland are at present very fatiguing on account of heavy railroad traffic, worn-out equipment, engines and cars being in repair, and facilities at hand being far below the needs. 'The crowding of cars forced our party to stand up one whole night. "However, to the good and faithful saints in Larsmo Branch, situated close to Jacobstad, it was a great joy when the travelers arrived August 10, at 5:28 a. M. A special meeting was held on Saturday, the 11th, under the direction of the acting mission president. The first Relief Society in Finland was organized. A glorious spirit reigned, and often our thoughts turned to the day when the first Relief Society in the world was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith. "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning' was sung and prayer Page 206 was offered by Elder Claus A. Person, after which 'If the Way Be Full of Trial Weary Not' was sung. "Acting Mission President C. Fritz Johansson thereupon greeted the saints present and Sister Astrid Johansson spoke of her appreciation of the opportunity to come to Larsmo to assist in organizing a Relief Society. She invoked the guidance of the Lord upon all present and explained that the purpose of the Relief Society organization was to help and to serve the members and our fellow men and to disseminate light and sunshine in a dark and dismal world. "The following points were discussed: 1. The fundamental aims of the Society. 2. The proper organization, president, counselors, and secretary. 3. The duties of teachers. 4. Meeting regulations. 5- Manuals. 6. The use of the help fund. 7. Reports and yearly dues. 8. Dressing the dead. G. Unity of board members. 10. The slogan: 'And above all these things put on chanty, which is the bond of perfectness' (Coloss. 3:14) was read. "Sisters were thereupon appointed to the different offices in the organization they had just completed and NOTES FROM THE FIELD were set apart in the branch meeting the following day. All expressed their joy and appreciation for the privilege of working in the Lord's cause, knowing that if they sought God in prayer, he would assist them and the work would go forward. Elder Berg said this was such an organization as they had been longing for, and he appreciated the visit of the mission authorities. "Be Ever Glad, Ye Daughters of Zion' was sung by Sisters Viola and Inga Ronnkvist, Vera Numan, and Georgina Back. Elder Claus A. Person spoke on the work of the Relief Society, a labor of love which will be written in the Book of Life. "Acting Mission President C. Fritz Johansson was the final speaker. He referred to the important event when. The Prophet Joseph Smith in the name of the Lord turned the key for this Society. Brother Johansson wished the sisters success in their work. The meeting closed with singing 'O Lord, Let Me Come to Zion's Land' and the benediction was pronounced by Elder J. Viktor Berg. All felt that the spirit of God was present in rich abundance and our hearts were filled with thanks to God for our membership in his Church. Besides the authorities from Sweden, those present were: Branch President J. Viktor Berg and the First Counselor Anselm H. Stromberg. The following were appointed to preside over the Relief Society: Sister Anna Stromberg, President; Sisters Johanna Soderholm and Inez Ikalainen, First. And Second Counselors, respectively; Viola Ronnkvist, Secretary-Treasurer; Inga Ronnkvist, Assistant Secretary; Sisters Georgina Back and Inez Ikalainen to act as teachers in Jacobstad 207 and Sisters Lena Renlund and Viola Ronnkvist to act as teachers in Larsmo." North Central States Mission ANN J. KILLPACK, President of the North Central States Mission, reports a mothers' and daughters' banquet, a social, and an old folks' party: MOTHERS' AND DAUGHTERS' BANQUET BILLINGS BRANCH "As a fitting climax for the year's Relief Society activities, sisters of the Billings Branch met together May 29, 1945 at a mothers' and daughters' banquet at which more than a hundred were in attendance. One of the oldest mothers present was Sister Mercy Elery who was a convert to the Church four years ago. This dear sister is very faithful in Church activity and many times has expressed her joy and gratitude for having been privileged to live long enough to find the true Church of Christ. She is now making plans to go to the temple to take out endowments. "Relief Society officers, Lucy Call Taylor, President; Johanna Sanderson, First Counselor; Edna B. Collins, Second Counselor; and Mary Grebe, Secretary, feel very grateful for the fine spirit of co-operation manifest among class leaders and fellow members. A great deal has been accomplished through this combined co-operation of the sisters. Visiting teachers have been very active and have awakened active participation among a large percentage of the branch membership. A_ Singing Mothers' group is very active and has contributed much toward musical entertainment, and the branch organization attained placement on the honor roll of The Relief Society Magazine. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 BILLINGS (MONTANA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY North Central States Mission, Mothers' and Daughters' Banquet Photograph submitted by Ann J. Killpack, President, North Central States Mission Relief Societies. All of this has been accomplished through combined effort and co-operation which is the spirit of all true Latter-day Saint women." MOTHERS' AND DAUGHTERS' SOCIAL "The ladies of the Minneapolis Branch Relief Society entertained at a mothers' and daughters' social Wednesday, June 27, 1945. An invitation to attend was also graciously extended to the fathers and sons. The crowd was delightfully entertained by a program of poetry, dancing and music. Later they re tired to the recreation room where a tasty luncheon was served, and some danced to polka music. This was especially fitting as most of the members are from Scandinavian countries. "This social terminates what has been a very successful year of Relief Society activities. The sisters are especially proud of a rummage sale which they recently held. This sale netted them a profit of $103.84. All of the goods sold was donated by the sisters in the branch. A willingness to serve is manifest by all, and this is the true spirit of Relief Society work." OLD FOLKS' PARTY MINNEAPOLIS BRANCH "The ladies of the Minneapolis NOTES FROM THE FIELD Branch who were over sixty years of age met together at the North Central States Mission Home, March 22, 1945, for an afternoon of renewing friendships with sisters in the gospel. Ten of the thirteen women in attendance were converts. Most of them had heard the gospel in foreign lands and had given up friends, family, and all they held dear there to join the Church and come to the land of Zion, yet none of them felt that the sacrifice was too great, for through the gospel, they have learned to know real joy. They are happy in the knowledge that they have found the true Church of Christ. These sisters have been very faithful in Relief Society and other auxiliary work and are very regular in their attendance RES Sg OM... Fl 209 when the weather and their health permit. "An afternoon's entertainment and refreshments were provided by President William L. Killpack; his wife, Ann Jane Killpack, Mission Relief Society President; and missionaries Norma Baldwin, Marjorie Yeates, and Caroline Stucki." Northern California Mission MARY S. ELLSWORTH, President of the Northern California Mission Relief Society, reports: "Salinas, like twelve other branches in the mission, is doing all it can to assist the priesthood in obtaining money for a new church building. I think throughout the mission that they all realize how much better 4 MINNEAPOLIS (MINNESOTA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY North Central States Mission, Old Folks' Party. Standing, left to right: Ellen Johnson, Helen Novak, Betsy Holm, Eliza Stevens, Mary Swenson, Ingborg Malmgren, Laura Servold, Gunda Larsen. Seated, left to right: Emily Titze and Olive Larson. Photograph submitted by Ann J. Killpack, President North Central States Mission Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 SANTA ROSA (CALIFORNIA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Northern California Mission, Singing Mothers. Front row, left to right: Judith Lindelof, First Counselor, Santa Rosa Branch Relief Society; Agnas Gross, President; Ada May Wilson, Second Counselor, and Pearl Ferris, Secretary-Treasurer. Center row, left to right: Effie Christian, Martha Fisher, Mary Corl, Mabel Shick, and Anna Lindgren. Back row, left to right: Jessie Stubbs, Grace McPeak, and Mary Sanders. Photograph submitted by Mary S. Ellsworth, President Northern California Mission Relief Society missionary work can be accomplished with a church of their own. As President German E. Ellsworth said, "The hall is not a church. The meetings held in it seem to be just group meetings. All are determined, as soon as the priority is lifted, to have money ready to do something toward their own church building. "The sisters of the Salinas Branch gave a dinner, charging $5.00 a plate, and they were enabled to clear $215. During the summer months they are having a luncheon at each other's homes, taking their husbands and whoever else will join them, charging them fifty cents each and the other day they cleared $40." Sunderland, Durham (British Mission ) MARGARET WALKER of Sunderland, Dutham, England, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 211 SALINAS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, Building Fund Dinner given by the Salinas Branch Relief Society, March 17, 1945. Photograph submitted by Mary E. Ellsworth, President Northern California Mission Relief Society writes a summary of conditions in own, and, we hope, are progressing. The Relief Society of her district: The sisters appear to be receiving "In spite of war conditions, our The Relief Society Magazine more Relief Societies are still holding their regularly now." We protest earnestly and with determination. We protest existing policies which encourage the consumption of liquor, with all the far-reaching consequences of that consumption. We protest the expansion of the liquor traffic and its freedom from the reasonable restrictions which would contribute to reconversion. We protest the use of thousands of tons of raw materials in making intoxicants.  Deets Picket, from The Voice, December 1945. Ze Work Meeting  Save Those Precious Scraps DON'T throw away your tiny print scraps until you have seen this quilt pattern," says Sister Ivie H. Jones, Relief Society President of the Spanish American Mission. "Whether it be called a 'String Quilt Block,' because it uses those long, narrow wedge-like strings from the side of skirt gores, etc., or whether it be called "The Scrap Bag,' "The Four Point Star,' or 'Economy Quilt Block,' it is a very practical way to use those tiny, irregular scraps that are too precious to throw away and yet too small to cut up into other types of quilt blocks. In fact, the smaller and more irregular the scraps, the prettier the finished quilt will be. It really might be called the 'Prism,' for the octagon wheel, made of the print scraps, looks pretty much like a prism of different shapes, sizes, and colors. "Making this quilt is especially suitable as a Relief Society project, since the sisters can work on the blocks at home and be assured that they will all be the same size when finished, and that is quite an item. But it is like seeing the Carlsbad Caverns or the Grand Canyon. No one can properly explain its beauty. You'll just have to see it for yourself." Materials Needed: Sufficient wrapping paper to cut forty squares, 1314x1314". (Newspaper is not satisfactory. ) Two yards plain colored material or two dyed flour sacks. However, the pattern adjusts itself nicely to any material on hand. Two yards will make strips 2" wide. 114 yards makes strips 114" wide, etc. Two feed or flour sacks (or mulsin) for the stars. Scraps of material. Page 212 WORK MEETING PAPER STEP NO. 1 Cut 40 squares of paper 1344" x 131%". Be accurate. This makes a quilt 72 x 90 inches finished. METHOD STEP NO. 2 Fold in half and cut on dotted line. Each triangle is a block. FOLDED MUSLIN STEP NO. 4 Fold muslin or flour sack (for stars) lengthwise. Press exact, fold again making six or eight folds, depending on width of muslin. FOLDED MUSLIN A STEP NO. 5 The width of the folded muslin (a-a) determines the width of the pattern for the star A-A. Use a ruler and mark with pencil A-C, leaving the width of one seam between C-C. STEP NO. 7 Place pattern No. 6 in exact center, mark with pencil. Fold pattern in half, reverse ends and utilize all material No. 7. STEP NO. 3 Fold in half again and crease at dotted line in order to get star in exact center of paper triangle. STEP NO. 6 Star pattern made from Step No. 5. STEP NO. 8 Now tear plain colored material or dyed flour sacks into strips lengthwise. If you have 2 yds. Material, make strips 2 in. Wide. If 1/2 yds., 14 in. Wide, etc. 214 STEP NO. 9 Pin muslin star onto paper, being sure star is in exact center of paper pattern. STEP NO. 12 Sew a scrap of print material as in No. 10. Fold back. Press and cut off to paper pattern. If strip is too wide, cut it down. Narrow. Uneven strips are prettier. There is a knack in removing the paper. Next to the stitching and paper can be easily removed. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 STEP NO. 10 Stitch on machine, over paper, a strip of plain colored material, being sure to sew in the edge of muslin star at the same time. '/ STEP NO. 11 Fold back and press. Trim to fit pattern. STEP NO. 13 Sew another strip of print on in same manner Material can be on straight or bias so long as seam stitching itself is straight. LY STEP NO. 14 Completely fill both points with prints. Trim off to paper pat- 'tern. Start at the point, take hold 2, STEP NO. 15 Sew triangles B-D together, matching plain strip. Sew triangles E-F together Sew from NO. 16 Sew these large blocks together, making the quilt 4 blocks wide and 5 blocks long. This makes 12 full octagon '"'prisms," with half prisms on the edge. MARCH PROMISES Aileen M. Overfelt March winds are blowing, High, clear winds of spring, Mysterious with promise  Adventure on the wing. Promise of a primrose Blooming on a hill, Promise of an orchard Filled with robin's trill. Best of all, the promise In a woman's heart, To greet a man's returning From a foreign port. Voices in the high wind, Blow across the sea, Take this message to my love, "I will wait for thee." Page 215 216 Welcome Moon Handicraft Gift RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1946 NEW THINGS Belle Watson Anderson I like new things in spring, Such as tiny bows of blue The violet weaves into rosettes With beads of shining dew. I like new things in spring, Such as soft, pink eider down The apple blossom uses To make her petaled crown. I like new things in spring, Such as yards of willow laces Orchard fences use for veils To hide their wrinkled faces. Before You BUY A BIBLE Look for the National trademark. Shop Make Your Selection For WEDDING, BIRTHDAY and GRADUATION GIFTS Hand-hammered Copper Unusual Quilts Infants' and Toddlers' Clothes Original Design Bookends Water Colors Many other handmade gifts of distinction fies a well made book with helps that are really helpful  regardless of the edition you select. KING JAMES VERSION National BiBLes SINCE 1863 AT YOUR BOOKSTORE When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine BRIGHAM YOUNG University is proud of its many ALUMNAE Who Serve As Officers And Teachers In The RELIEF SOCIETY SPRING QUARTER begins March 25 ESPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY I LOVE A LITTLE COTTAGE (O'Hara) se 5 FLAG WITHOUT A STAIN (White) BLESS THIS HOUSE. 15 GOD IS LOVE (Shelley) - al ALICE BLUE GOWN (Tierney) _....20 PEACE I LEAVE WITH YOU (Roberts) _.. A ae.) 0) Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 47 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 price of only... 44 East South Temple LATEST COMPLETELY REVISED EDITION BARTLETT'S FAMILIAR QUOTATIONS Edited by CHRISTOPHER MORLEY and LOUELLA D. EVERETT Priced regularly at $5 through many printings, this beautiful eleventh edition, with twice as many quotations as heretofore, is offered at the very special "Everyone who puts words on paper for others to read, everyone who speaks to an audience, even though it be an audience of three, needs 'Barilett.' "' ORDER YOUR COPY NOW! DESERET BOOK COMPANY "The Book Center of the Intermountain West" P. O. Box 958 et Salt Lake City 10 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 Prepare for Life OF Years by investigating in a Beneficial Retirement Income Policy. INSURANCE COMPANY HOME OFFICE  BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING SALT LAKE City 1. UTAH GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. PRESIDENT THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 

