
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY 1946

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford President
Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor
Gertrude R. Garff Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Anna B. Hart
Florence J. Madsen
Blanche B. Stoddard
Mary G. Judd
Edith S. Elliott
Ann P. Nibley
Evon W. Peterson
Luella N. Adams
Priscilla L. Evans
Leone G. Layton
Leone O. Jacobs
Velma N. Simonsen

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Editorial Secretary Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 33 MAY 1946 No. 5

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
Three Miniatures From Life: The Mothers of the First Presidency Luacine C. Fox 291
In Memoriam: President Louise Y. Robison Kate M. Barker 295
Women Poets in Review Part I Anna Boss Hart 298
Are We Protecting Our Children? Leone O. Jacobs 302
The Gift of the Genie LaRene King Bleecker 310

FICTION
"Filleth the Hungry Soul" Frances C. Yost 305
Faith Is a Heritage Chapter 2 Christie Lund Coles 318

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 314
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 315
Editorial: Return of Spring Vesta P. Crawford 316
In Memoriam: Pauline Taggart Pingree 317
The Magazine Honor Roll for 1945 General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 322
Notes From the Field General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 345
Comments From Magazine Readers 355
Comments From Magazine Writers 356
Work Meeting: Grosgrain Ribbon Handbag 358

POETRY
To Louise Y. Robison Frontispiece Alice Morrey Bailey 289
I Heard a Robin Singing Zara Sabin 301
Mother's Day Greeting Robert Layton 304
Mother Delsa Davis McBride 309
The Teacher Mary E. Abel 317
Sunset Divine Pauline Kirkwood 313
Mother of Mine Vernessa M. Nagle 321
Relief Society Magazine May Weight Johnson 353
Mother's Notebook Dott J. Sartori 354
Meadow Lark Roberta Bates 360

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 74,000

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE TO LOUISE Y. ROBISON (Born, May 27, 1866?Died, March 30, 1946) Alice Morrey Bailey She was like a beacon on a hill, Throughout the dark, depressive night. Her still And radiant presence never failed; no hand Was stretched to her in vain. Across a land Bowed low with burden, shadowed long with fears, She cast a path of faith. Eleven years She gave of all she was: a heart that wept For underprivileged waifs, a head that kept Serene through storm and stress, and arms that reached In charity to all who asked her help beseeched. She aided all, but left the touch of friend, Sincere and warm. Before the dark day's end She left her people strong, prepared, and girt Against a greater time of tragedy and hurt. Wisdom marked her task, now done at length. Achievement was her light, the Lord her strength? And these she passed to all the weak, the proud. She graced a sacred trust, and walked unbowed. A queen she was in bearing, pride, and face? A noble woman in a noble place. The Cover: "Spring Symphony" Photograph by Grace O. Tuttle VOL. 33, NO. 5 MAY 1946 Three Miniatures from Life The Mothers of the First Presidency Luacine C. Fox ARAH FARR SMITH Mother of President George Albert Smith "President Smith, what qualities in your mother have had most influence in your life?" I was sitting in his spacious, wood-paneled office as I awaited his reply. President George Albert Smith answered me at once, quietly and simply, "Her tenderness, her devotion to her children there were eleven of us, you know." I hadn't known. He told me she had been a "real mother" and he added, with a little smile, "Of course, to us, she was the best mother in the world." He n to reminisce: "When I was a little fellow, just getting so I could climb the stairs, I remember mother took me by the hand, led me up the stairs into the bedroom where my crib was, and, sitting by my crib, she had me kneel. She took both my little hands in hers and taught me how to pray, and do you know the prayer she taught me?" When I shook my head, he repeated the simple words of the well loved child's prayer: Now I lay me down to sleep, I pray the Lord my soul to keep, And if I die, before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. "And even then," he continued, "young as I was, that prayer went through me, and I felt confidence in it. I felt secure." He told me of another incident? the only time when he willfully disobeyed his mother. "She took a little willow stick and marched me into the kitchen and was about to whip me with it, but I took hold of both her hands and wouldn't let her do it." "What did she do, then?" I asked him. " 'Why,' she said, 'I'm not going to whip you, Son. If you're old enough to know you can stop me by holding my hands, then you're too old to be whipped,' and she never did it again." President Smith's mother, Sarah Farr Smith, was the daughter of Lorin Farr and Nancy Chase Farr. She was born in Salt Lake City, 30 October, 1849, in a house that stood on West Temple Street between First and Second North. When she was still a child, the family moved to Ogden, Utah, where she remained until her marriage to John Henry Smith, 20 October, 1866. Then she returned to Salt Lake City and made it her permanent home. Sister Smith was never well, and therefore unable to take an active part in the Church. Her home duties Page 29] 292 and the care of her beloved children occupied all of her time. She did enjoy traveling, and often accompanied her husband on his trips when his calling as an apostle took him to different parts of the United States, and even to Mexico. After a well-spent life, and after rearing a splendid family, she passed away in February 1921. As I listened to President Smith's words ? words of love, of respect, the words of a devoted son about his mother, the thought came to me? what joy she must know now her son the child she had home and reared and taught had been chosen by the Lord to be the Prophet, Seer and Revelator of the Church on earth. Surely no greater reward could come to a woman for years of patient service to her children, for the diligent, persevering teaching of her son. As I looked back over the brief glimpse I had been given into these lives, I thought again of the child by a crib, a small boy being taught the words of a simple prayer the faith he had in that prayer. I seemed to see him mature, a mother's devoted care constantly strengthening that faith; a mother teaching him the gospel, patiently and tenderly. I saw him now even as he sat there ?and was enriched by the power of righteousness I felt in him and the inspiration that came to me from him. What a glorious role is that played by the Latter-day Saint mother who works in partnership with God to train her sons for labor in the gospel of Jesus Christ. And, truly, Sarah Farr Smith, mother of President George Albert Smith, was an outstanding mother in Israel. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 MAY LOUISA WOOLLEY Clark, Mother of J. Reuben Clark, Jr. First Counselor in the First Presidency President Clark, in reply to my question concerning his mother, Mary Louisa Woolley Clark, said this, "Among my mother's teachings, best remembered, are these: First, and above all else, be chaste, tell the truth no matter what follows. "Bear your own troubles uncomplainingly, without inflicting them on others. "Do your full duty always and do not expect praise or reward for doing it. "Do whatever you have to do in the best way you can. "Be humble, not boastful; let other people do the bragging. "Work; be honest; don't cheat. "Be fair, considerate, respectful of the rights of others. "Don't carry tales. "Live so that you will not disgrace yourself or your family. "Try always to be a real, genuine man. "Be loyal to every trust, to your family, your friends, your Church, your country, and your God." In this statement I found the strength, the indomitable courage, the determination, and deep-rooted faith of President Clark himself. I knew that his mother must have been a remarkable woman and I found that she was. Mary Louisa Woolley was born 5 July, 1848, in what is now Keith County, Nebraska. Her father, Edwin Dilworth Woolley, and THREE MINIATURES FROM LIFE mother, Mary Wickersham Woolley, were on the way to Utah. They stopped on the evening of the 4th of July. Mary Louisa Woolley was born, and the journey was continued the following morning. Once in Salt Lake, Mary Louisa's father built a home near the old Social Hall. When a child of seven or eight years, she took a prize at the city fair, for being the "best specimen of pioneer days" and this was because she was wearing a homespun dress held together, not with buttons, nor with pins, but with thorns from bushes in City Creek Canyon. She used to spin yarn, as a girl, and she assisted Rachel Grant (mother of the late President Heber J. Grant) in making men's shirts which were sold at the Z. C. M. I. Much of her time was spent in St. George, Utah, where some of her brothers lived. She was active in Church functions and socials there, taking part in musicals and dramatics as well. She was twenty-one when she met Joshua Reuben Clark, Sr., and she married him two years later in the Endowment House. Sister Clark led a rich life a hard life. She and her husband pioneered in their early married life. Their first home was a log house in Tooele County, which her husband had built with his own hands. Her life was full of work. President Clark remembers her doing her heavy washing in the winter evenings, and hanging it out and coming back into the house with her hands so cold that she buried them in his thick hair to warm them. He remembers massaging her feet and ankles for 293 her when they ached at the end of a busy day. And her days were very busy ones, with ten children to rear. But with it all, she was uncomplaining and brave. She passed on to her son her love of life, her love of the soil. He has her fearless courage her unwavering testimony of the gospel. He is a son of whom she was justly proud. She was the mother who helped endow him with those qualities which the Lord has required of him as First Counselor in the First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ENNETTE EVANS McKAY Mother of David O. McKay, Second Counselor in the First Presidency. President David O. McKay has paid many tributes to his mother, Jennette Evans McKay, but to me none of them is more beautiful than these: "I cannot think," he said, "of a womanly virtue that my mother did not possess. Undoubtedly, many a youth, in affectionate appreciation of his mother's love and unselfish devotion, can pay his mother the same tribute, but I say this in the maturity of manhood when calm judgment should weigh facts dispassionately." "The older I grow, the more deeply grateful I am for the life and influence of a perfect mother." Every woman dreams of hearing her son or daughter say such things! And every Latter-day Saint mother longs with every fiber of her being to set her son's feet on the path of right and to help him tread that path throughout his sojourn on earth. Every mother seeks to instill in her 294 son the love of the beautiful, the respect for and ideals of womanhood that President David O. McKay has; the gentleness, the kindliness, that enfold every deed of this righteous man. His mother, Jennette Evans McKay, was born in Glamorganshire, Wales, 28 August, 1850, just three months after her parents, Thomas Evans and Margaret Powell Evans, with their older children, had become members of the Church. On July 8, 1856, the family arrived in Iowa, having set sail from Wales the preceding May. They stayed for nearly three years in Iowa, finding it quite a change from Wales, while Jennette's father prepared constantly for the journey to Utah. They left for Utah in the private company of Captain Buzzard. They had good wagons, splendid horses, and they took along a cow, so that they were supplied with fresh milk and butter along the way. On the 18th of August, 1859, they arrived in Salt Lake City, and, after a brief stay of two weeks, moved on to Ogden where they made their home which was a happy home. Jennette married David McKay, April 9, 1867, after which they went to Huntsville and lived on a large farm not far from an Indian reservation. She was ever ready to make any sacrifice for the sake of the gospel. Not long before the birth of one of her children, when the call came for her husband to go across the ocean RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY 1946 on a mission, she unhesitatingly insisted that he go, though it left her not only without her dearly beloved husband, but with the full responsibility of the farm and the children. She knew that he would be gone when her next child should be born, but she carried on unflinchingly. The relationship between President McKay's mother and father was a beautiful thing. 'There existed between them a bond of love and devotion rarely found. To him she was always the lovely, brown-eyed girl he had first seen, sitting on the tongue of a wagon, looking as pretty as a picture in her pink sunbonnet. To her he was her strength, her protector, the loving father of her children. In her home, she was a charming hostess. Her fragrant flower garden supplied many a bouquet for shutins and funerals. She served in the Relief Society and in the Mutual Improvement Association. She was the mother of ten children, children who loved her devotedly, who built their lives around her teachings. It is no wonder President McKay wrote this about her: My Mother! God bless you! Your purity of soul, Your faith, your tenderness, Your watchful care, Your supreme patience, Your companionship and trust, Your loyalty to night, Your help and inspiration to father, Your unselfish devotion to us children? These and every other virtue that contribute to ideal motherhood, I associate with you, My Mother! In Memoriam President Louise Y. Robison Counselor to Sister Robison in the Relief Society General Presidency (This address was delivered at the funeral services for Sister Robison held in the Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City, Utah, Thursday, April 4, 1946.) TODAY, for the first time, I have the responsibility of speaking in this building without Sister Robison at my side. On all other occasions, knowing that I was frightened, she would reach her hand out to mine and say, "You can do it." And somehow, when she said this, we stood up and with the help of the Lord did our best. I feel that she is encouraging me now, that I can see her sweet smile and that she is telling me that no matter if I fail to express adequately what is in my heart, she knows what I feel and think, and how ardently I would love to give fitting utterance to my and your admiration and love. I am sure that all our hearts are filled to overflowing with pride and gratitude. We are proud that one whom we love so dearly has gloriously prepared herself for a greater work. We are proud of the honor. Sister Robison brought to the Church and to the Relief Society in all the contacts she made, national and international. We are proud that we are numbered among her friends. We are deeply grateful for her lovely self, for her beautiful life, that we were so blessed as to be permitted to work with her. We a grateful that she was our president. There is sadness in our hearts for we know that something lovely has gone from our lives. No more will come those precious letters so full of love and encouragement, that always came when needed. She gave us so much of sweetness, she poured so much of warmth into our hearts. How we shall miss her! But we know that our sorrow is for our own great loss. We know that this is a glorious day for Sister Robison ? Commencement Day ? and that she graduated with the highest honors. We know that her beautiful, radiant personality, her charm, her poise, her captivating sense of humor, her graciousness, her sympathy, her great love, her abiding testimony ?all of those qualities which made her a great leader, so lovable and beloved will go with her and be intensified in her new sphere of activity. Someone has said that the happiest person is the one who thinks the most interesting and beautiful thoughts, and that such a person never grows old, but grows happier as the years pass. This was true of Sister Robison. The last time I talked with her she was not well. Though nothing could dim her radiant spirit, her delightful humor, yet I sensed a yearning of her soul for higher things, for greater service. Page 295. Kate M. Barker PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON LOUISE y. ROBISON The opportunity for greater service has come. What a wonderful lifetime of service she has given here�eleven years of which she was president of the great Relief Society of the Church. Translate this into kind words, encouraging words, inspirational words, into kind deeds, into days and years spent in seeking those things that would enrich the lives of the women of the Church, and what a glorious record we have. She gave so generously of her time and always of herself, we wondered at her vitality. She gave so cheerfully. I have told her many times that she must be a great joy to her Father in heaven, she served him so cheerfully.
She was always solicitous of the women and so appreciative of their work. She so loved the "Singing Mothers" and I know how beautifully she would express her appreciation of this group today who have come to sing to do honor to her. When she stood before a group and said, "Dear Sisters," something went from her heart to touch our heartstrings and we had a spiritual feast.
Probably her greatest contribution to Relief Society was the strengthening of the ties of unity, love, and co-operation. She traveled much, visiting wards and stakes and missions, and every visit strengthened the bonds of love and friendship.
Her vision of Relief Society was one of sisterhood and friendliness. Hear her plea:
"In some of the wards we still find there is lack of hospitality. We go to a meeting and are so in earnest in the work we are doing, that we are not as attentive as we might be to those fine women who come to our meetings. We do not feel that
way when a friend comes. We are happy to have her come and we tell her so. Cannot we take this hospitality into our ward Relief Societies?
"There is nothing in the world that makes work go so smoothly as to be thoughtful and courteous to everyone."
She exemplified this kindness in her own contacts. How often she expressed her love and appreciation to the Relief Society workers:
"Often we know that you have patiently labored with sad hearts and tired hands to render the service required in these times of distress, and no cry for help has gone unheeded. From our hearts we thank you. We honor you and love you . . . We face the future with confidence and hope born of our faith in you and in the gospel of our Savior, Jesus Christ."
I have heard both officers and members say: "Oh, Sister Robison, we can get so close to you and feel you are close to us."
One bishop in a remote ward said, "Sister Robison belongs to the Church�not to one ward or stake. We all feel she belongs to us."
She truly had that great gift, "the understanding heart�the human touch."
In one of her addresses, she told of the night in Gethsemane, when the Savior, knowing that he was facing a terrible ordeal, could have called legions to help him, but he took his friends with him and said, "Tarry ye here, and watch with me." He was sorrowful unto death and while he prayed they slept, and when he came to them he said, "What, could ye not watch with me one hour?" (Matthew 26:40).
(Continued on page 356)
Women Poets in Review Anna Boss Hart Member of the Relief Society General Board PART I COME with me to greet a few C of our women poets in review. We will not linger long today, however great or well-known the poets may be, but you may wish to become better acquainted with them in your home and spend many hours with each one in your own cosy reading nook. You will be in awe of some and treat others as casual friends. This is such an inviting time of the year to greet new and old friends? book friends. Just as soon as there is a tinge of spring in the air and peace in our hearts, we receive new life; we hear overtones in nature; color is richer; life is more abundant. Let us meet some of our women poets whose poetry sings this spring day. Francis Ludlow has said that women whether real or imaginary? escape all classification. These women who pass in review have a special gift the gift of poetry, a rare gift. "Poetry is simply the most beautiful, impressive and widely effective mode of saying things," said Matthew Arnold. The poet fixes landmarks that our children's children may see and travel better for seeing. It is true that many a poet "puts out a finger, and leaves a star wherever he touches." A poet is happy when he finds the unwritten poems men live by. Poets often feel symphonies in song that others never hear. How strangely Page 298 susceptible to divine inspiration they are! And now, as we skip the centuries, we greet Sappho whose name has outlasted "floods and hurricanes, the erosions of rain and frost and famine, and all the wars." The beautiful Sappho, a name which the Greeks for more than a thousand years placed next to that of the great Homer. Her image was stamped upon coins. She loved nature and had the power to express in striking language the living beauty of her surroundings. Sappho had the power to be direct, intense, strong that "wondrous creature without comparison during her time." In the words of the ancient epigram: Sappho's white, speaking pages of deaf song Yet linger with us, and will linger long. During Sappho's time the genius of women developed itself to a degree unsurpassed for a thousand years. In the highlands of her home country, Lesbos, women enjoyed more culture than elsewhere. She was one of the founders of the lyric poetry of the world. Alcaeus, her townsman, and one who shared the honor of being a founder of lyric poetry, addressed to her these exquisite lines: Violet-crowned, pure, sweetly smiling Sappho. WOMEN POETS IN REVIEW Few facts of her life are known. She was born in 612 B. C. No doubt she knew by heart her Homer and Hesiod. Many were her admirers, and one fortunate admirer won her hand. By him she had a daughter, named after her own mother, Cleis: I have a little maid, as fair As any golden flower, My Cleis dear, For whom I would not take all Lydia, Nor lovely Lesbos here. What a picture of the southern summer, with its noonday siesta in _ the open air, we have in her lines: The lullaby of waters cool Through apple boughs is softly blown, And shaken from the rippling leaves, Sleep droppeth down. She knew, too, that she herself would not be easily forgotten: I think there will be memory of us yet, In after days. 299 Sappho lived to a ripe old age, and died leaving a name which Plato called the "tenth muse." 

we will meet one of the greatest of the singing women of England, who lived centuries after Sappho. She is Christina Georgina Rossetti, whose matchless lyrics cause her to loom above other women of her period. She was born in London, December 5, 1830, of Italian origin, daughter of Gabriel Rossetti, a well-known commentator on Dante. We can imagine the four Rossetti children in the garret spending the time together before their bedtime. Christina, the youngest of the four, would be listening to Maria tread aloud, while her brothers, Gabriel and William, colored prints. Already, as a young child, Christina was religious and reflective. At eighteen she resembled Gabriel's A Perry Picture SAPPHO From a Painting by Alma Tadema (1836-1912) A Perry Picture ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING (1806-1861) painting of Mary, the Virgin, for which she had posed. Within Christina there was a "keen, white sharpness, protecting, like a coat of armor, something she held above the treasures of the world." One would not expect this when her outward appearance was soft and womanly. Her poetry reflected her life. Sometimes, painting her sheets of paper, knitting, or going about her duties, she looked on the world with shining eyes: My heart is like a singing bird Whose nest is in a watered shoot; My heart is like an apple tree Whose boughs are bent with thickset fruit; My heart is gladder than all these Because my love is come to me.... "Song" and "Remember," and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 many others of her exquisite poems should be read and reread. As she grew older she seemed to become a younger sister of her mother. After the last link that still held her to the world had snapped, she lived on in the hope of life everlasting, where all she held dear awaited her. mention Elizabeth Barrett Browning in review, brings to us the remembrance of a poet loved and well-known. Elizabeth Barrett Browning (1806-1861) led a life exceptional in various ways. Possessed of a sturdy soul in a frail body? "her mind was disciplined by an un- _ usual education and her character by prolonged illness." Her father built for the family a mansion of oriental splendor, and there he placed every one of his children "in a gilded cell and locked the door." Elizabeth often longed "to slip downstairs through all the sleepy house and escape." There were but two secrets that she kept from her father, forbidden books and_ her dear friendship for Robert Browning. It was on May 20, 1845, that Robert Browning was at last permitted to come to Wimpole Street. When Elizabeth took matters into her own hands and set sail for Italy as Mrs. Robert Browning, her father said, "My daughter is now in her grave. Let us forget the dead." Her poetry increased in depth and beauty from the happiness of her marriage, yet the love sonnets written to Robert Browning during their courtship days are exquisite in thought and structure. When her husband saw these poems, he prevailed upon her to have them WOMEN POETS IN REVIEW published as "Sonnets from the Portuguese." What favorites these sonnets are! I love thee with the breath, Smiles, tears, of all my life and, if God choose, I shall but love thee better after death. But love me for love's sake, that evermore Thou mayest love on through love's eternity. Just three days after Elizabeth's forty-third birthday, a son was born to them. And from her newborn babe she felt a newborn strength. That was the peak of her happiness! Again, how sad she must have felt when she tremblingly read a letter and found a package from her father, addressed to Robert Browning: In the accompanying package you will find the letters sent to me by your wife. All these letters, you will note, have remained unopened. The seals upon them are still intact. Elizabeth's father died shortly after the return of the letters. The news of his death brought on a collapse from which Elizabeth never fully recovered. She has left us poetry full of living fire. | HEARD A ROBIN SINGING Zara Sabin I heard a robin singing in the rain one day, When things for me had long gone wrong; At first, I would not listen to his song, But clutched close to my heart its poignant pain; For what, I thought, have I to do with cheer Or spring or song or lilting loveliness, What is there now for me but bitterness Since I have lost the one I hold most dear? So gladly rang his gleesome roundelay It seemed I had to hear him, and I turned To where he sang so blithely unconcerned With storm or cloud or wild, wind-driven spray. Then all unbidden, quite to my surprise, A smile quick-twinkled in my brimming eyes. Are We Protecting Our Children? Leone O. Jacobs Member of the Relief Society General Board N a recent article by Angelo Patri, he says, "The latest report on the death of young children is something to make us all quiver. The health of our babies is wonderful and we have a fine crop of them. But the record of fatal accidents to young children is shocking. Why do we allow these needless fatalities to the little ones? The accidents happen at home for the greater part. Imagine that!" It takes a lot of doing on the part of adults, and especially on the part of mothers, to safeguard children against hazards in the home. I am sure none of us realized just how many little things there were to watch and guard against until we had the responsibility of homes of our own. The difference between knowledge and wisdom is an important point in relation to safety. We know that knowledge denotes acquaintance with facts, but wisdom "consists not in knowing many things, nor even in knowing them thoroughly, but in following what contributes most to our lasting happiness." And so we may know what the dangers in the home are, but unless we use wisdom in applying the knowledge we have, unless we do something about those dangers, our knowledge is of no avail. We must be constantly on the alert to: Page 302 Keep stairways clear. 2 Avoid carrying hot liquids. Never leave a pan of hot water on the floor. Keep water in automatic water heaters below scalding temperature. 4 Tack stair carpets securely. 5 Secure small rugs at corners. 6 Keep medicines locked up. Medicines should be clearly labeled and never taken in the dark. 7 Turn handles of pots, heating on the stove, away from the reach of children. When taking off lids, raise them in toward the stove instead of out, so the hot steam will not burn anyone. 8 Teach children never to tum switches on the gas stove. If gas has escaped, air the room thoroughly before relighting the burners. Disconnect all electrical equipment and cords immediately after using. Small children may be instantly killed or severely shocked by putting an attached cord into their mouths. 10 Cupboards should not be so high that climbing is necessary, nor so full that bottles or cans may fall out and break, or hit someone. 11 Toys should not be left lying on the floor even such small items as marbles on the floor can cause serious falls. These are some of the hazards to guard against, ARE WE PROTECTING OUR CHILDREN? AR too many fatalities among children are the result of their being left alone or in the care of an immature person. Children are at the mercy of those who care for them. It is criminal to leave them when they cannot take care of themselves in an emergency. Some parents put the children to bed and go out for the evening. "Oh," they say, "nothing will happen. We've done it many, many times and the house hasn't bumed down, no one has turned on the gas or swallowed a pin." Yes, but it does happen to some children not yours, of course! It may never happen to your children, 303 but just the same, it might! It takes only one fire or one pin to cause disaster. A mother may be bathing her ten-months-old baby when the telephone rings. She thinks, Oh, I'll just be a minute. She'll be all right. She loves to play in the water. It is a friend on the phone who is planning a party and wishes suggestions for refreshments. The talk goes on and on. Who knows what baby is doing in the meantime? Children, and even small babies, are locked in the car while mother goes shopping. Can anyone be sure of the consequences? A 'mother cannot afford to take 304 her responsibility to her children lightly. The time she gives to the well-being of her children is the finest contribution she can make to humanity. A small boy runs into the street after his ball, directly in the path of an approaching car. A little girl is playing quietly in the driveway and suddenly a truck backs out and crushes her tiny body. Who is to blame? Much can be accomplished by training children at home. "But," you say, "when a child's ball rolls out into the street, or when he is being chased by a playmate, he never thinks to look, no matter how much he has been taught!" Children differ in this respect, of course, but I have seen children who do stop and look before dashing into the street, even while at play. Then there are those who are careless, and tell only on good fortune to save them. The difference lies mainly in the training of the individual child and the example set by his elders. Very few children receive enough education in safety at home. Yes, they have been warned and threatened, but the training and super RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY 1946 vision must be consistent over a long period of time to be effective. Example is an important part of teaching. What adults do, children imitate. Any adult who disregards a safety rule, may be contributing to the peril of some child. The schools have done a splendid job of training our children to observe traffic rules, and our observations prove that the children obey traffic regulations far better than adults. Very seldom do we see a child cross on a stop light or jaywalk. There are numerous perils in the life of a child, diseases such as poliomyelitis, rheumatic fever, etc., that, as yet, we are unable to prevent, but surely we should eliminate the perils which come through careless neglect. Motherhood is the most important responsibility in all the world and yields the greatest dividends. Our children are the hope of our nation. They are the promise of tomorrow. Give them the chance they deserve! Let our watchword be: "Eternal vigilance is the price of safety." MOTHER'S DAY GREETING Corporal Robert Layton Here's loving greetings to you, Mom. I'm far away from home, it's true, But don't forget this Mother's Day My thoughts are winging home to you. "Filleth the Hungry Soul" Frances C. Yost OUNG Jonathan Wood finished the last of the sego roots his morning meal, as his wife, Abigail, looked on. Poor Jonathan, she thought, his cheek bones poke out more every day. He actually looks half-starved. I don't see how he keeps going, just eating sego roots. He works so hard. Is it possible he is beginning to really like them? He certainly cleaned up the dish with relish. Abigail refrained from stating aloud the high contempt in which she held the sego root, practically their only source of food until the garden would come on and the grain be harvested. She was absorbed with her thoughts until Jonathan picked up the straw hat she had woven for him and opened the door. "Jonathan, haven't you forgotten something?" "Oh, yes, our 'goodbye - for-a while' kiss." Abigail hurried to the door with him. "I can see you are worried," she said, as she looked questioningly into his sun-tanned face. "Are the crops a complete failure, and are you trying to keep it from me?" "No, Abbie, I'm not keeping any bad news from you. I guess I was just in a hurry. I'm going to water the grain. It's looked pretty sick the last few days. Brother Brigham said he would come first thing this morning and help me with some ditches." "President Brigham Young helping you irrigate!" exclaimed Abigail in bewilderment. "Then the crops are in great danger! Oh, can irrigation possibly save the grain?" "Bless your heart, Abigail, don't ? worry. Here's another kiss for good measure." With these words, Jonathan took leave of his young wife and went to work in the fields. With a sigh, Abigail surveyed the one room of her pioneer home. Jonathan had built it. Her eyes tested on the fireplace. She never grew tired of looking at it. It was most decorative, even in hot weather when it was not in use much. They had built the fireplace of red and white granite. The hewn rocks had been placed together in a checkerboard arrangement, and Abigail's fireplace had soon become the envy of every other pioneer homemaker. The shining pots hung in their places. On one side were the table and chairs, in the opposite corner was a cupboard of split pine. How empty it looked! Were it not for the blue willow dishes her grandmother had given them as a wedding present, it would be quite bare. The set was one of the three things Jonathan had consented to bring with them on the long, hard journey, "Because," as she had told Jonathan at the time, "I just can't go without them." The other half of the room was used as the bedroom. There was a big double bed. It boasted polished legs and a beautiful headrest of striped pine and was covered with a log cabin patchwork quilt which hung to the floor. Cuddled close to Page 305 306 the bed was a cradle made of quaking aspen, wherin Baby Annie was sitting, fascinated by her pink toes. In the other corner was the little green metal trunk, another reminder of the home in Connecticut they had left. Above the trunk hung a mirror, the third article from her dear old home. The well-packed dirt floor boasted two nice rag rugs. Both were Abigail's contribution to their new home. One was by the door, and the other was placed in front of the bed, where they knelt together fer morning and evening prayers. Our own home and how I love it, but I'd trade it all for a real good meal for us all, Abigail decided solemnly. She was brought from her wishful dreaming by the sound of a kettle of water boiling merrily. The kettle hung on a rod over a campfire just outside the door. She took the kettle from its hook with a pair of long tongs and carried it into the house for baby Annie's bath. She poured the hot water into a quaint bathtub, which was another piece of Jonathan's woodcraft. He had hollowed out a log and smoothed and polished it for a bathtub for the baby. Abigail enjoyed the tub so much because she never had to worry about its tipping over, nor of baby Annie slipping in it. She cooled the water until it tested just right on her elbow. "Baff," cooed Annie. "Yes, dear, you can have a nice long bath while Mother tidies up the house." The baby played to her heart's content. Thank goodness, Abigail thought, there is plenty of water, if one doesn't mind carrying it. Taking the baby from the tub, she put RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 clean clothes on her and, while the water was still warm, Abigail washed out the clothes Annie had been wearing. It doesn't pay to let things get too soiled, she thought. Oh, fora bar of fresh-smelling soap. But I'd really rather have a loaf of fresh-smelling bread at that. HEN, going to the cupboard for a cup of milk, she looked at the contents longingly but did not take so much as a sip. Baby Annie needed every drop. If the vegetables would only come on, she thought, Annie needs some fresh vegetables as well as milk. Back home we would have all kinds of vegetables by this time of year! Then, aloud, she exclaimed: "Why, its my birthday, today! Jonathan has forgotten, too, but I shan't mention it for he'll feel badly that he hasn't a present for me." Thoughts of her past birthdays and the very special dinners each had brought made her wonder just what she could fix for this one. "T know, we'll celebrate my birthday by not having sego roots for one meal," she announced to the baby as she looked through her scanty supplies. "Let's see, there's vinegar and enough staples for a small mixing. I could make some meal cakes. Perhaps I shouldn't use the very last meal we have, but after all, it is my birthday, and they'll taste so good after what we've had!" With happy thoughts of a change of diet, though meager, Abigail hummed a part of a song she loved: "Why should we mourn, or think our lot is hard, 'tis not so, all is well." Mixing the dough, she divided it" into three small cakes, as baby Annie sat on the big bed playing pattycake. "FILLETH THE HUNGRY SOUL" watched the making progressed. At last, it was finished. With the use of the tongs, she carried the Dutch oven into the keys were set to "Um-mmm, I could eat them all] Myself right now," sniffed Abigail, as she looked at the steaming cakes, Just then a gentle tap was heard on her door. She quickly covered the meal cakes with 4 clean cloth and hurried to see who her visitor might be. It was Lucy Hanson, her nearest neighbor, "Hello, Lucy come in?" "Just for a few minutes, Abbie, I now you're busy and I don't want to detain you," 'You look bred, Lucy. I hope you're not feeling il]," dear, won't you Lucy sat on the offered chair, her bony form revealing its heavy burden. "Tm not ill, Abigail, not really. Just a little tired, I... I just don't seem to have any strength!" Lucy made an attempt at a laugh. "I just came from the garden, Oh, Abbie, had so hoped there would be some enough to thin out. But they're hardly more 307 than through the ground! There wasn't even enough for a tiny flat. Abigail, not to be outdone, replied optimistically, "Lucy, it won't this morning that Brother Brigham Amos with his irrigating. So now you see, your grain Will surely make!" "Abigail, the harvest may as well "Always before my the loaves and Placing them in the Oven. Sometimes I can almost smell a delicious oven fragrance, and I just want to shut my eyes and stop fighting..." Lucy need not know I have the cakes, thought Abigail. Lucy and Amos Hanson Were given as much meal allotment as we. If I have been more frugal, well, that's just Lucy Hanson's hard luck! When Abigail looked again at Lucy, she was drying a tear with er apron. Stealing a have given away every dish of my blue willow set for 4 crust of bread before Annie was born. | could.... 308 I could give her my cake. She needs it more than I. I will give her my own meal cake! WALKING over to the split-pine cupboard, she took from the top shelf a plate which belonged to the blue willow set. Placing a doily lovingly on the plate, she went quickly, lest she change her mind, to the table where the three precious meal cakes were covered. Choosing the nicest looking one, she went back to the chair where Lucy sat still dabbing her eyes in an effort to hide her tears. "Here, Lucy, eat this. It isn't much, but you'll feel better, I'm sure.' Lucy looked up and her hand automatically reached for the food. Then, with restraint, she drew her hand back. "Abigail, darling, you're so thoughtful and generous, but I couldn't take it, really. I wasn't begging. I came for sympathy only. I'll just have a drink. I wouldn't think of robbing you, and begin" "Lucy, I want you to have it. I have mote.' "Ate you sure you're not giving me your last morsel of food?" "Quite sure, Lucy dear, and you'll welcome to it even if it were.' "Well, if you're sure you want me to have it.... It looks so very tempting." Lucy took the plate offered her and ate slowly, enjoying every morsel to the fullest. Abigail watched her hands as they went from plate to mouth. The very food she had planned for her own birthday dinner! RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY 1946 Dinner, there was that word again. Jonathan would be coming in soon and a good wife couldn't set a hungry husband down to a table with one meal cake. "Lucy, I haven't prepared Jonathan's dinner. I must gather my roots. I think I'll try cooking them and serving them with a little vinegar, just for a change." "Oh, Abigail, you're so clever, you make them sound almost good! I won't keep you. I should go myself. I can't tell you what this food means to me. You have saved my life, as well as my baby's. Now I know I shall be able to carry on. God bless you, Abigail!" "Come over again, Lucy." Lucy was gone. Turning slowly, Abigail went back into her house. She glanced at baby Annie in the cradle. She would sleep for a while yet, and it wasn't far to a large patch of sego lilies. If she hurried she could make it! Snatching her sunbonnet, she slipped quietly out, and ran to the open prairie. The tears, so long held back, burst forth. Alone, she did not have to put on a brave front. On she ran, letting the tears come. Blindly she came upon the sego lily patch, and fell to the ground and wept as if her heart would break. There she lay until her well of 'tears was completely dry. I'm not the only person in the world who has divided food with a friend or neighbor, she thought reprehensively. Then, raising herself to her knees, and bowing her head, she prayed, "Dear God, in heaven above, I promise thee, this day, that as long as I live I will not complain nor apologize to others for the little food we have in our home, if thou wilt "FILLETH THE HUNGRY SOUL" 309 only provide us with bread. Just bread! Dear God. Amen."
Just then Abigail felt strong familiar arms about her waist, helping her to her feet.
"Abbie, darling, the wheat fields are nodding as if the very hand of God were pushing them! You should have been with me when I irrigated. Why, the water really laughed as it rippled through the grain. And every spear of wheat nodded its thanks. Look at it now, Abbie. You can almost see it growing before your very eyes! There is the answer
to your prayer. Abbie, something tells me your hungry days are almost over."
Abigail wiped the tears from her face with her apron.
"I say, Abbie, why don't we try vinegar on the sego roots for your birthday dinner?" Jonathan asked as if he had discovered the solution to all worldly problems.
Suddenly, they were laughing as they clung to each other�good, deep laughter that rewarded the heart, and together they dug roots enough to sustain them.
CAREER
Delsa Davis McBride
I met a poet once, and read a poem He wrote about common things and home; I, too, will write, I thought, I'll write of love And a rhyme about the stars above, About the folks who like to roam� I'll write a lovely poem! Then a singer came along, Singing a happy hunting song. "It is better far," said I, "to sing� Look what happiness a song can bring!" That was before the girl from France Came to town and I saw her dance. Now, thought I, I will dance awhile Before an audience and watch them smile; I'll dance as fairies dance at night, Surely this time I must be right! But that was before I met you Or ever heard a baby coo. Now I am mistress of a home, But I never have time to write a poem. The singer can sing his song, not I, I only have time for a lullaby. I never, never have a chance To dance awhile as fairies dance. But I wouldn't trade with the singer lad (My baby girl can say dad dad!), I wouldn't trade with the girl from France (My baby is sweeter than any dance!), I wouldn't trade with the poet of our (My baby has golden curls, like you!).

 The Gift of the Genie LaRene King Bleecker SUPPOSE that a genie came S to you as you sat alone in your living room, bearing a gift. "Here, on this silver tray, is an education for you," he might say. "You have only to pay one dollar and, presto! Great knowledge shall be yours." How you would thrill as you reached forth eager hands to grasp this wonderful gift. "Why, that is almost like finding it," you would exclaim. But a genie is not likely to do that, for he exists only in fairy tales; and such a thing as an education handed to one on a silver tray could never happen. Literally, perhaps, it could not, but we have its equivalent within our own homes, ready for us to reach out and take, any time we care to do so. And such a complete education as we should receive: Complete courses in_ theology, literature, social science, and visiting teachers' messages; excellent articles on sociology, biography and pioneer history; latest achievements of noted women, stories, articles, poems, all these, together with splendid instructions from our spiritual leaders. From experience, I know this education can be obtained, for I have the gift of the genie here on the table within my reach, the source material out of which I shall absorb my knowledge. When I have finished, I shall have mastered the rudiments of knowledge and self Page 310 culture that lead to a more abundant life. How I came to realize the value of this gift as a source book began one busy day quite a few years ago when there were a thousand and one things to be done. I had dropped into a chair with a gasp of dismay, having just remembered that I was to give a talk on sociology at a study club that very afternoon. Where could I find material at this late hour? There wasn't time to go to the public library and the textbooks on that subject were tucked in the lockers of my two sons at college. Then I recalled that in a bound volume of The Relief Society Magazine I had read a very fine article on "Why Study Sociology," by Dr. Harold T. Christensen, author of the lessons in social science then appearing in the Magazine. It contained all the source material I would need for my-notes and information. While browsing through that same number, later, I found a short article that suggested a plot for a story which was finally accepted in a prize-winning contest. On another day, I wanted a gift for a friend who was in need of a cheering philosophy to help her regain mental poise after having gone through the tragic loss of a loved one. Again I went to my source supply the Magazine. In searching through back numbers, the thought came why not make for this friend a little booklet made up of poems and household hints, THE GIFT OF THE GENIE I used first, the Eliza R. Snow memorial Prize-winning Poems published in the January Magazine for 1945, then the three intervening and home were shorter to a Charted Course?" Marler Hoggan, as Printed in the January number for 1946. In Making this booklet, I had to obtain extra numbers of the Magazine from the neighbors who do not make a practice of keeping them on file from year to year because of lack of space especially in small apartments If this is being done by you for the same reason, and you haven't had your Magazine bound (which can be done for a nominal cost) why not try a filing system by utilizing space on the closet shelves? MY method of filing the Magazines is rather simple, but effective in saving time. I compile them according to their subject matter. December numbers usually carry the Christmas theme; Mother's Day material can be found in the April or May numbers; pioneer articles in July; conference reports in the June and December numbers. If there are special stories, articles, or lessons I wish to preserve, I list their titles in red pencil on the outside cover, thus saving the time one would spend in thumbing through them. I also have Magazines listed which contain articles to which I can refer for child guidance, home problems, postwar planning, how to greet our returning soldiers, and many other timely, educational facts. Concerning our soldiers, there is an excerpt from an address by President J. Reuben Clark (September 1945, page 523) that every mother, wife, and sweetheart of a returning soldier should memorize and put into practice. If this were done, the problems of our boys and their home readjustment would be adequately solved. As class leaders, we often have need for verses, quotations, or timely suggestions. When reading current numbers, therefore, I have formed the habit of listing the things that have special significance or appeal. A five-cent notebook is all that is needed in jotting down the subject matter, the number of the Magazine, and the page. Not long ago a friend was in need of a short story to be retold at a parent-teacher's meeting, touching on the problem of mothers who work away from the home and the effect their absence might have on the children. In the January number of the Magazine for 1945, page 34, is a story "Mama's Boy" by Alice Morrey Bailey, which seemed to be made to order for the very purpose. There is a story on the mother-in-law versus daughter-in-law problem by Edith Lovell in the February number, 1945, page 92; also, a beautifully constructed story in the January issue of this year "Spring Festival" by Mary Ek Knowles, the prize-winning story, which carries out the theme of idealism versus realism. In like manner, I have found source material for essays, articles, lectures, and story plots. But, best of all, there is a way to banish that inevitable blue day that comes to even the best of us. Call it mental fatigue, spiritual laxness, nervous let-down ? anything you like, but whatever it is, there is one unfailing cure read your Magazine. Or, if you have read the current number, get out your old Relief Society Magazines and browse through them. Soon your morale will return and you will experience a renewal of mental and spiritual strength and courage. Besides inspired lessons and editorials, you will get a digest and review of world happenings; you will read articles on travel, biography, and religion, combined with poetry, literature, and art. Then there are bits of humor and reminiscences of special interest because they are similar to the things we have had happen in our own lives. One such special feature entitled "I Remember" by Elder Rodney B. Taylor, rich in restrained humor and atmosphere, gives an account of how a little Mormon community in Canada entertained an English lord and his aristocratic daughters (April 1945, page 208). Special significance, too, are the poems inspired by the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest announced in June of each year and which ends in September, the winners being announced and the poems published in the January issues. The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY 1946 Magazine also conducts a short story contest, the rules and results of which are also published in June and January. No greater asset to culture can be found anywhere than in this splendid method of encouraging our poets and authors, to whom we owe the tribute of reading and rereading their inspiring poems and stories. If one kept only the Magazines containing these stories and poems, think what an asset they would be to any home library. The rapid tempo of modem life, together with its growing complexities, contributes to the increase of fear and anxiety in the homes of today. How shall we meet such fear? What shall we do to obtain serenity of mind and heart? Now, more than ever before, mothers are required to be stalwarts, to remain calm in the face of confusion and bewilderment. The Relief Society Magazine is a supplement to our faith. It is the source book by which we obtain a more abundant life, by which we become better, wiser mothers; it educates us, helps us to be sure of ourselves, to be reliant and happy, to gain knowledge with which to enrich the lives that God has entrusted into our care. May I make a plea to each of you if you haven't been in the habit of keeping back numbers, start the filing habit now. If you haven't a closet shelf or an attic, a trunk will serve, or even the cupboard shelves. As we store away food for our physical needs, so also, we may store sustenance for our mental and physical hunger. Associate intimately with the THE GIFT OF THE GENIE fine in of our editors, our church leaders, Our authors, and those inspired specialists who outline the Magazine lessons. Here then, in your education, the ablest contribution from our best informed instructors in this or any other age. Then, if you haven�t already done so, subscribe now for the current year. Then, believe it or not, you will have your silver tray of knowledge at hand. The genie will be bowing before you, and the abundant life will be yours. A SUNSET DIVINE Pauline Kirkwood And gazed enthralled at the Picture I saw As the sun slowly sank in the west. The sky above was all aglow With color beyond compare, For God had made a canvas of the sky And painted a Picture there; And the Stay clouds floated their tarlaton Veils Splashed with Carmine and gold. Done for you by the great Master's hand? So cherish it tenderly, took the picture from out of the sky And brought it away v^th me; Now it hangs on the wall of memory. Color divine in a symphony. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent May 1 and May 15, 1886 "For the rights OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women of ALL Nations" SPRING How shall I woo thee, beautiful spring, What shall my offering be Once more we are permitted to behold the most beautiful quarter of the year? young, vernal, glorious spring! The season when all nature arises from her long, cold, deathly sleep, throws off her alabaster shroud of snow, enters her dressing room and robes herself in glorious apparel of every hue and texture and comes forth as a bride. Editorial FROM TUBA CITY, (Arizona): We are almost out of the world here, and do not receive the news very readily.... Our general health is good as it always is; death, excepting for accident and old age, has never visited us during the seven years of our settlement here. Our postoffice address is Tuba City, though the place is better known by the name Moan Copy. We have a weekly mail now, still there seem to be some irregularities, which we hope will be overcome in time. ?Mary A. Farnsworth, President of the Relief Society. Ee e HOUSEHOLD HINTS: A little borax put into the water in which scarlet napkins and red-bordered towels are to be washed will prevent them from fading. When making a new carpet, always save the ravelings for use in darning the carpet on some future day, as the colors will match better than any yarn you are likely to find. A bill-of-fare book is a good thing. A plain, strong, blank book is what is needed. Every day when the morning's work is done, sit down and write therein what you will have for the next dinner, supper, and breakfast. In this way a pleasant variety and a better class of cooking will be secured and all needed preparations can be made methodically, instead of a harum-scarum, hurried manner at the last moment. OUR LITTLE PAPER: One can realize most fully when absent from Zion or the valleys of the mountains what a power in the hands of the women of this Church a newspaper is. We are all well aware that many of our sisters think very little of the Woman's Exponent, and look upon it as too insignificant for them to patronize, or even to read, but they do not comprehend its importance. If they did, they would open their eyes in wonder when one tells them the Mormon women publish a paper.... We would entreat our sisters to give this silent messenger of their views and expressions more liberal patronage and careful attention in the near future. Editorial Page 314 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon PRESIDENT TTRUMAN invited twelve outstanding American citizens to meet with Ex-President Herbert Hoover in the White House in March. They planned means of decreasing American consumption of food in order to send more to famine-stricken peoples. Among the twelve were Mrs. Anna Lord Strauss, President of the League of Women Voters, and Mrs. Emily G. Dickinson, President of the National Federation of Women's Clubs. Al eighty years of age, Sister Mary E. Abel is a visiting teacher's message leader in Relief Society and also a teacher in Sunday School in the Third Ward of American Fork, Utah. As first Relief Society president of that ward, she served for nineteen years. Since the age of thirteen she has continuously filled one or more positions in the Church. MB:. BELLE J. BENCHLEY has an unusual profession for a woman. For twenty years she has been curator of the San Diego Zoological Garden, California, which she has made into one of the greatest zoos in the world. She has originated and pioneered excellent features, many of which have been adopted by similiar institutions throughout America. MARCH 12, 1946, Mrs. Celestia Snow Gardner of Salt Lake City, Utah, was ninety-seven years old. She is the daughter of William Snow, brother of Erastus Snow. She has known all of the presidents of the Church except the Prophet Joseph Smith and has listened to their inspiring gospel messages. HREE Utah women have been appointed to national positions in the Parent-Teachers Association of the United States. Mrs. Arch J. West is president of the juvenile protection committee; Mrs. L. K. Nicholsen is chairman of the safety committee; Mrs. Eric A. Johnson, President of the Utah P. T. A., is a board member. [XN the American Legion Auxiliary, two Salt Lake women have been honored with national appointments. Mrs. Rae Ashton is vice-chairman of child welfare; Mrs. H. C. McShane, community service chairman. RS. GEORGE P. PARKER, formerly a member of the Relief Society General Board, is chairman of the home division of the Utah Safety Council. The excellent work of her division brought Utah the January national award for home safety. Page 315 C@?D EDITORIAL c~ ? VOL. 33 MAY 1946 Return of Spring While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease (Genesis 8:22). HE return of spring is at once a promise and the fulfillment of a promise. After the dark night of winter, after the time of waiting, the earth turns again to sunshine and song and the splendor of leaves and blossoms. There is solace and great joy in this orderly return of the season of brightness and beauty. There comes a resurgence of hope and the deep satisfaction of feeling once more that all is right in the world in God's world. There can be no denying the infinite possibilities of the earth, the unbounded potentialities of man who has been given dominion over it. Faith seems to assume greater strength in spring, and all that is done seems to be measured with the spirit of promise. Now in the wide fields, the white gulls follow the plow as they have followed it every spring in these valleys for nearly a hundred years. Still the storage of snow has been made in the mountains and the streams bring again their living water. It is the feeling of sameness, of order, of the working of eternal law, that gives a sense of security. Here is the earth with its ancient promise of spring fulfilled. Here are the furrows ready to receive the seed. Here are the orchard trees with Page 316 their blossoms falling and the green fruit taking form on the boughs. The pasture grass grows tall and bends to the wind. Young lambs, white against the brush, trail to the sunlit hillside. All is well with the world. Only the dominion of man is weak and confused ? weak and confused because his aims are not high enough, because his field of service is not wide enough, because his heart is not kind enough, and his courage too often a latent thing. Confusion and despair have not come because the earth is inadequate, nor because we have not been given the tools for turning all its infinite possibilities to our good. Our Father has fulfilled his promise. Seed time has returned, and with it the opportunity for a new planting and the reaping of a better harvest. To the Latter-day Saints, always aware of both their heritage and their destiny, the return of spring has a special meaning. Our pioneer ancestors, living close to the earth, learned patience, industry, and thrift. Living close to the Heavenly Father, they learned responsibility and brotherhood. They displayed through their living of the gospel the union of many tongues and many people achieving their ideals by devotion to a common cause 317 the temporal and spiritual salvation of the people.
The return of spring in this troubled world comes as a new opportunity, another chance for
achievement. "For lo, the winter is passed . . . . The flowers appear on the earth; the time of the singing of birds is come" (Song of Solomon, 2:11-12).
V. P. C.
In Memoriam
Pauline Taggart Pingree
Member Relief Society General Board, 1940-1945
THE General Board of Relief Society, on behalf of its members in all the stakes and missions of the Church, offers tribute to the memory of Sister Pauline Taggart Pingree, former member of the General Board of Relief Society. Sister Pingree ,who was greatly loved by all her associates in the Society, passed away in January 1946.
Her life was filled with unselfish service and great blessings. She served with honor and distinction in many positions in the auxiliary organizations of the Church. While her husband, Frank Pingree, was bishop of the University Ward, Salt Lake City, Sister Pingree was an ideal "mother of the ward." Her devoted service in ward Relief Society work provided a rich background for her responsibility as a member of the General Board, to which position she was called in April 1940. She served faithfully for five years and was released with Sister Lyman's Board in April 1945. She will long be remembered as a kind and loving friend, a wise and inspirational leader, and as a true benefactor of the needy and a comforter of the bereaved.
THE TEACHER
Mary E. Abel
What mission could be greater Than to comfort, cheer, and bless, And bring our Father's children here Real joy and happiness?
Each little act of service given, Each word in kindness spoken, Will bring the giver near to Heaven And heal the heart that's broken. Faith Is a Heritage Christie Lund Coles CHAPTER 2 SYNOPSIS Enid Drage, mother of a small girl, is very happy in her household tasks and in the love of her husband, Tom, who has been promised the position of foreman at the factory where he works. Enid believes that the future holds great treasures for her and her family, but suddenly her world is darkened by the news that Tom has suffered a fatal accident. THE funeral was something Enid was to remember as one remembers a dream, hazy and unreal, yet paralyzing in its impact. And borne, somehow, though one knows not how. A strength beyond physical strength, a peace beyond any peace she had ever known had sustained her through the songs, through the kind, hopeful words of those who spoke, even through that last, horrible moment when she saw him for the last time. Then she wanted to cry out, to seize him bodily in her slim, young arms, to run with him so that no one might ever take him from her again. But the power that had seen her through the rest held her through this. The agonizing moment passed and she moved like one anesthetized. She found herself, together with the few relatives of Tom's who had come from out of town, back at the house. The neighbors had cleaned it, put flowers about, and prepared an appetizing meal. Enid shuddered as she looked at the steaming food." She could not possibly have eaten Page 318 though the others did, assuring her she needed strength. And when they had finished, they left, beseeching her to let them know if she needed help of any kind. The door closed on the last of them and she stood, her back against it, staring at the two-room flat. It looked shabby and poor now.... As it really was. The magic that had made it bright and beautiful was gone. Sharon was with one of the neighbors who had offered to keep her that day. For the first time, she was alone with her grief. And for the first time, looking at the small crib, the dresser where Tom's ties hung in one corer, seeing his shoes in the closet, she threw herself across the bed, buried her face in her hands and wept.... Copious, shaking tears that seemed to come from the very roots of her being. After a long time she ceased her weeping. She lay still, staring into space. The twilight shadows were growing long in the room. She knew she should go and get the child, but she couldn't bring herself to do it. Somehow, she dreaded seeing that face which was so much like another face. She resented it a little, too, found it almost unbearable that his looks, his eyes, the very cowlick in the child's hair, which was like his, would go on while he would not be here. FAITH IS A HERITAGE She closed her eyes wearily while her thoughts, unbidden, turned back over the past years. She had been nineteen when she met Tom. Both of them had been at the university. One day in English Two she really noticed him for the first time, noticed his wide shoulders and his dark, slightly curly hair. As she was looking at him, he turned and their eyes had met. She liked the rather shy, quizzical way he smiled at her, and, flushing a little, she returned the smile. Somehow, it didn't seem strange for him to be waiting for her at the door as she came out of class. "You're Enid Burton, aren't you?" he asked with friendliness. "Yes," she admitted, "and you?" "I'm Tom Drage. Mind if I walk down with you?" She said, "No. I suppose not," and they found themselves going down the corridor together. As it happened, neither of them had a class the next period so they walked out on the campus and sat under the beginning-to-be-green trees. It was spring then, too. Later than now and warmer, but there was the same scent of newness, of growth, in the air. She could almost repeat every word they said, could hear him now saying the words. What a strange thing, memory! Like a moving picture of someone who has gone. She had known in a peculiar instinctive way that someday she would marry him, that if he asked she would go to the ends of the earth to be near him. She had told him she was going to teach and he had grinned, murmuring, "Not you. You're too pretty to be a school teacher. You'll get married to some 319 lucky fellow. It might even be me you'll marry." They laughed as if it were a good joke. Yet, it was only a week or so later that he said, as they sat in practically the same place, "School will be over soon. I don't believe I'll come back next year...." She looked at him in shocked surprise, her heart sinking. She asked, "Why not?" He bit on a blade of grass before he told her, "Well, there's something mighty wrong with me. I can't eat. I talk in my sleep. I can't seem to concentrate.... Except on one thing." Her breath came quicker but she plucked at the grass, not looking at at him. "It sounds bad," she agreed. "It is bad," he assured her seriously, reaching over to take her hand, "Gee, Enid, I'm head-over heels in love with you. Marry me, will you?" "Oh, Tom," she cried, "what about our plans for the future, your engineering and my teaching? I've got to pay Aunt Esther back for being so good to me. We're so young." "I know all those things, but somehow they don't matter. I've got enough engineering that I can make a living until I can save enough to go back to school. Someday, we'll both go back. But now...." He drew nearer to her, his eyes searching her face, "Look at me," he commanded, "try to deny that you love me." Her eyes were soft and shy as she looked at him, as she whispered: "T can't say I don't love you. I guess I knew it that first day I really noticed you." He laughed, indulgently. "I'd noticed you for a long time before 320 that. I was using mental suggestion on you. Finally, one day, you noticed me. Oh, happy day!" She felt the touch of his hand on hers and it was like a sudden charge of electricity. He leaned forward, whispering, "Say yes, my dear." "Tom.... Darling," She cried, in spite of herself, in spite of her reason, and she felt his lips upon hers, briefly, gently, wonderfully. When Aunt Esther gave her consent and full approval they went ahead with their plans. They were married simply, but rightly, in July, and since he had a promise of a job in his home town, they had come here to live. She didn't need to go over their days here, she couldn't. They were too close, too achingly close.. WAS darker now and she could hear the birds chirping in preparation for the coming night. She arose slowly, laboriously, and looked about the room. A great hunger for her child came over her. She took her wrap from the closet and started out to get her. The woman had said that she need only phone and she would bring her over, but Enid felt she would rather go out, walking, moving. The woman lived in the west part of town and not many would see her. Most people would be eating dinner, sitting around talking with one another, oblivious to the rest of the world.... As, oh, so recently, she had been oblivious to all else save her own little world. The wind whipped about her, stung her with a few drops of rain splashing against her face. But she hardly noticed, she walked with a Cd RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 steady rhythm against the wind, against the oncoming darkness, against the hard, steady pain that was gnawing in her being. Mrs. Ranch, of the Relief Society, was very kind. She drew her into the warmth of her large, nicely furnished living room where Sharon was lying on the couch asleep, an expensive plaything still grasped in her little hand. Enid went over to her, stood looking down at her a moment before she sank on the couch beside her. Mrs. Ranch watched her, compassion and kindness in her face, which, though not very old, was framed by completely white hair. "My dear," she said, coming over to her, "I am so sorry for you, but I know you have the courage and the faith to go forward, to make a good life for your precious daughter. You must force yourself to be brave..." She said other things, but Enid hardly heard them. Somehow, she managed to smile, to say, "Yes. I know," politely. And, after what seemed an interminable time, with her child in her arms, she whispered, "Thank you so much," and left, started toward home. She walked slowly now, deep in thought, deep in sudden, overwhelming bitterness. "Make a good life'"?that was easy to say, easy to do, when one had a beautiful home like this woman's, when one had a prosperous and good husband. It was not so easy when one was suddenly left alone.... With nothing. Tom hadn't even carried insurance. Each week they had thought of taking out insurance but he would laugh and say, "I guess there's plenty of time for that." No, it wasn't easy, at twenty-three, FAITH IS A HERITAGE to have the entire world dissolve under one's feet, its music stilled, its hope ended, its beauty suddenly turned to ashes. She stopped a moment to catch her breath, to put Sharon down so that she might rest before starting up the street. Then she noticed that she was beside the river which ran through the town. She stood looking at it as one mesmerized, staring at the heavy, black, churning water. Usually there was not much water in the river bed, but today the storms in the mountains and the melting of the snows had brought the water to almost flood proportions. Debris and rocks were being carried rapidly along, being tossed about as if they were nothing at all. The turmoil, the angry grumbling of the water, matched the bitterness and tumult in her own heart. And she was glad for it. She wouldn't ever be hurt again. She moved a step forward toward the water as one who is attracted 321 by an evil power. She felt the darkness about her, clammy and thick and ominous. As one is awakened from sound sleeping, she heard the voice of her daughter calling, "Mommie, Mommie," felt the tug at her coat. The child looked up at her in need, in want of love and assurance. She looked down into the lifted, trusting, beautiful face. In that moment all the dark bitterness within her became as mist before the morning sun. She dropped to her knees, gathered the child against her, whispered, "Oh, my darling, my darling, I still have you. I will make a good life for you. Daddy would want me to do that." The child repeated the word, "Daddy..." and pointed up the street. But Enid only kissed her, assuring her still, "Daddy isn't there. But his spirit is, his faith and his courage. He left us those. Yes, we will go home now." (To be continued) MOTHER OF MINE Vernessa M. Nagle Mother of mine, I never knew The price for a life one must pay; I never knew that loving one's own Meant toiling and striving each day. Mother of mine, through all of these years You've prayed for me how do I know? Mother of mine, these lips, too, have prayed For four little heads in a row! The Magazine Honor Roll for 1945 Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer UBSCRIPTIONS to the Magazine continue to show steady increase, based upon comparative total figures for December 1944 and 1945. In December 1945, a total of 74,- 032 copies of the Magazine were mailed as compared to 71,281 in December 1944, an increase of 2,- 751, or 3.86 per cent. Following the usual course, the honor roll, printed in this issue, recognizes all stakes, wards, missions and branches whose subscription rates equal or exceed 75 per cent. The 1945 honor roll contains more names than ever before?1102, an increase of 82, or 8.04 per cent over the preceding year. Following are the comparable figures for 1944 and 1945: appointed as Magazine representative, the name of the president appears. Great credit is due the supervisory stake, mission district, and mission Magazine representatives, and all of the ward and branch Magazine representatives who have done the arduous work of procuring subscriptions, with the assistance and support of Relief Society officers and members. To the Magazine representatives who have the responsibility of obtaining the subscriptions, and to all who assisted them, the General Board is very grateful. As an expression of its appreciation, the General Board is again awarding a free, one year Magazine subscription to all local representatives who procured subscriptions equal to 75 per cent of 1944 1945 Increase & Decrease No. Per cent Local Relief Societies In Stakes In Missions 245 Supervisory Organizations 101 Stakes Missions 6 7 7 2 + 16.66 Mission Districts Total on Honor Roll 1020 The honor roll is arranged in alphabetical order and the name of the Magazine representative appears opposite the name and record of each Relief Society listed. In those instances where no one is Page 322 the ward or branch Relief Society enrollment as of the end of 1945, and to all stake, mission district, and mission Magazine representatives appearing on the honor roll. The Magazine honor roll is based THE MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1945 on subscription reports submitted to the General Board. However, the British, Hawaiian, Northern California, and South African Missions (of the English-speaking missions ) failed to submit subscription _reports for 1945. Also, a few districts of some of the reporting missions failed to respond?1 in the California Mission, and 5 in the Northern States. Reference to the annual Relief Society reports compiled by the secretaries indicated that the unreported missions had local Relief Societies with rates entitling them to a position on the honor roll and they were, therefore, included. However, none is included from the British, Hawaiian, New Zealand, or South African Missions from which no report had been received by press time. We take special pleasure in congratulating the 18 stakes,  323 mission, and 7 mission districts with Magazine subscription rates of 100 per cent or more. Of this number 8 stakes and 5 mission districts are making their first appearance in the highest ranking group. In the local Relief Societies, 511 of the 992 on the honor roll achieved rates of 100 per cent or more. These hundred _percenters constituted 50.46 per cent or 385 of the 763 award-winning wards in stakes and 55.02 per cent or 126 of 229 award winning mission branches. The excellent records are due in many instances to the fact that some mission and stake Relief Societies have had unusual opportunities to place the Magazine in the hands of investigators and non-members. The local societies with exceptionally high rates appear on the following page. Relief Societies Achieving Highest Honors Name Per Cent South Alabama District 153 Australian Mission 140 South Los Angeles Stake 126 Cassia Stake Emigration Stake 113 East Jordan Stake ls Phoenix Stake 112 South Georgia District 112 Great Falls District 111 Boise Stake 110 North Idaho Falls Stake Name Per Cent North Box Elder Stake 108 Idaho Falls Stake 105 Burley Stake 104 Taylor Stake 104 South Salt Lake Stake 103 Bannock Stake 102 Granite Stake 102 West South Carolina District 102 Central Oregon District 101 Park Stake 101 San Bernardino Stake 101 Central Ohio District 100 Ogden Stake 100 Florida District Wasatch Stake 112 112 324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY. 1946 Local Relief Societies With High Ratings Local Society Azalia Branch Hurstville Branch Woollahra Branch Glen Huon Branch Lannison Branch Ballard Ward Tvrells Lake Ward Rock Springs Ward Scofield Ward Firestone Park Ward Kimball Ward Boise First Ward Manavu Ward Sheridan Branch Idaho Falls Seventh Ward Glasgow Branch San Bernardino Second Ward Manchester Ward ~ Basin Ward Oklahoma City Branch South Alabama District. Elizabeth City Branch Fall River Branch Klickitat Branch St. Anthony First Ward Twin Groves Ward Stake or Mission Southern States Australia Australia Australia Southern States Roosevelt Taylor Lyman North Carbon South Los Angeles Shelley Boise Provo Western States Idaho Falls North Central States San Bernardino South Los Angeles Big Horn Central States Southern States East Central States New England Northwestern States Yellowstone Yellowstone Per cent 313 300 289 260 190 189 182 169 169 168 167 165 162 162 156 155 a5 154 153 153 153 150 150 150 150 150 Achievements of Stakes Of seventy-one of the stakes on 1944 status and to the following 22 the honor roll last year, all but the following twelve maintained their We extend congratulations to the 59 stakes which maintained the position: Davis (new stake) East Jordan East Mill Creek (new stake) Grant Lakeview Millard New York North Box Elder Oquitth Pasadena Sacramento newly added stakes: St. George Sevier South Box Elder (new stake) South Summit Southern Arizona Star Valley Weiser Wells West Jordan West Pocatello (new stake) Yellowstone Bear River Bonneville Cache Ensign Los Angeles Maricopa Mt. Jordan Nampa Nevada San Fernando Sugarhouse Uvada THE MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1945 Achievements of Missions In the missions, four of the six which appeared on the 1944 honor roll maintained their positions in 1945, namely, Australian, Southern States, Western Canadian, and Western States. The Northern States Mission did not reach the quota this year. The report from the South African Mission did not reach the office in time to be included in this report. Three new missions made the honor roll this year Canadian, North Central and Northwestern. The Australian Mission still leads the stakes and missions of the Church with 140 per cent. The 1944 honor roll showed 24 mission districts. The 1945 honor roll shows 22 mission districts of which the following maintained their 1944 rating: South Coast and Mojave Desert of Califormia Mission; Central Indiana, Central Ohio, and Wisconsin of Northern States Mission; -Northern Montana of Northwestern States Mission; Central Florida, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, South Alabama, South Carolina, South Florida, South Georgia, West Florida, and West South Carolina of the Southern States. Six new mission districts were added this year: Las Flores of the California mission, North and South Illinois of Northern States Mission; Central Oregon, Great Falls, and Yakima of Northwestern States Mission; and North Texas 325 of the Texas-Lousiana Mission. Six of the districts on the honor roll in 1944 failed to qualify for this year? San Gorganio and Santa Barbara of the California Mission; East Michigan, South Ohio, and West Michigan of the Northern States Mission; and South Louisiana of the Texas- - Louisiana Mission. In addition to the stakes, missions, and mission districts in which local Relief Societies attained rates sufficient to place the entire area on the honor roll, 64 stakes and 8 missions are represented not by a rating for the stake or mission as a whole, but by one or more of their local Relief Societies which attained honor-roll status. Accordingly, a total of 145 stakes (all but 7) or 95.39 per cent and of 19 English speaking missions, 15 (all but 4) or 78.95 per cent are represented on the 1945 honor roll by one or more local Societies. Reports from the British, Hawaiian, New Zealand, and South African Missions had not reached the office at the time of this report. We tegret that the Carbon and Portland Stakes, which were on the honor roll in 1944, are not represented this year by even one ward. The General Board expresses its deep appreciation of the splendid results attained during one of the most stressful periods of history? the climax of the war and its aftermath. Be Relief Society Alberta Stake Ilartley Pershing Alpine Stake Alpine American Fork 2nd American Fork 3rd American Fork 4th Highland Bannock Stake Bench Central Cleveland Grace Grace Second Lago Mound Valley Thatcher Williams Bear Lake Stake Bloomington Fish Haven Garden City Laketown Lanark Liberty Ovid Paris First Paris Second St. Charles Sharon Ienroll- 483 44 3 32 39 26 31 39 60 85 78 15 No. Subscriptions Pet. HONOR ROLL Magazine Representative Annie B. Orr Reatha Stoddard Edna L. Meredith Catherine Smith Marie Reimschussel Hannah S. Goodall Ann C, Hansen Louella M. Binns Ida Sorenson Rose Hanson Ila Holsten Mary B. Andersen Hattie Hogan Afton Robinson Dorthy Steele Blanche Wright Alice L. Smith Merl Kingsford Nina Michaelson Bertha Thornock Alice Loveland Celia Langford Bernetta Price Fontella Parker Laura Poulsen Jessie Jensen Rosa Grandy Veda Shepherd Carrie Pugmire Hazel Long Relief Society Lovell Lovell West Otto Penrose Powell Worland Blackfoot Stake Blackfoot First Blackfoot Third Blackfoot Fourth Moreland Pingree Riverside Riverton Rose Wapello Blaine Stake Carey Gooding Lone Star Richfield Shoshone Boise Stake Boise First Boise Second Boise Third Boise Fourth Meridian Mountain Home Bonneville Stake Douglas Enrollment 158 124 28 11 31 25 941 77 71 83 74 30 54 29 37 48 53 49 14 31 14 429 78 67 115 67 49 13 117 SS) No. 129 104 27 14 31 31 710 69 67 75 69 32 64 30 28 38 51 41 subscriptions Pet. 82 84 96 127 100 124 75 90 94 90 93 107 119 103 76 79 96 84 86 90 79 110 165 119 98 103 106 115 95 Magazine Representative Christina Norton Hazel Davis Myra Anderson Zona H. Roper Mrs. Elton Asay Ora Cannon Frances Merkley Mary Winkler Genevive Hawks Maria Buchanan Mabel Kofoed Sarah E. Commack Tacy Winmill Cassie Brown Emmeline Chaffin Emma J. Jensen Virginia Eldredge Helen Cheney Flossie Nebeker Ivena Brown Gladys E. Huntley Dorothy C. Robinson Lillian P. Stuart Irene K. Read Maida B. Bates Lillis H. Melander Mabel Roylance Gladys Ferbrache Mary Spencer 326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 Bear River Stake Beaver 29 Elwood 41 Tremonton Second 127 Ben Lomond Stake 579 Lorin Farr 76 Ogden Twenty-ninth 50 Benson Stake Big Cottonwood Stake 624 Cottonwood 89 Mt. Olympus 153 Winder 80 28 110 452 123 680 107 Opha Packer Kate Petersen Pearl Perry Dora Shaffer Janusine N, Petersen Veda Gunnell Eloise Palmer Cora Daley Alta Hickman Ethel Palmer Maude P. Close Fannie Nelson Emily S. Blaylock Velma Jensen Anna W. Mills Irene Traveller Edna H. Robson Olive J. White Ruth J. Kuhre LaVon P. Smith Elaine Saunders Hilda A. Jordan Mabel G. Wood Jessie J. Robertson Louise Tuttle Mary Youst Virgie Allen Sally Griffin Lucille M. Webster Hope B. Eyre Rose H. Hoffman Garden Park Yale Yalecrest Burley Stake Burley First Burley Second Burley Third Declo Pella Springdale Star Unity View Cache Stake Logan Fourth Logan Ninth North Logan Cassia Stake Basin Marion Oakley First Oakley Second Oakley Third Chicago Stake Aurora Batavia Milwaukee Racine South Milwaukee University Cottonwood Stake Grant 109 179 115 5b4 73 178 175 780 101 110 145 576 137 752 104 101 Mildred Bradshaw Edith R. Lovesy and Margaret M. Cannon Irene Giauque and Mary Victor HONOR ROLL Jane R. Robinson Leona Hall Ella Boatman Gennetta D. Parker Julia A. Parke Emma Kesler Gladys Bowen Gertrude Durfee Ione Church Thelma Taylor Rachel Fuhriman LaVaun Hawkins Lenore Larsen Jane R. Hale Marian McIntosh Sarah Adams Angeline Martindale Jane R. Hale Tessie Burch Anna Belle Unger Louise Eilkson Lorraine Thorne Vivian Hart Martha Hubert Hertha Rathke Cora Freudenberg Merle S. Muir Hazel T. Clark Collinston Deweyville East Garland Howell Park Valley Snowville Stone North Ogden Lewiston Third Richmond Trenton Holladay South Cottonwood Big Horn Stake Basin Belfry Burlington Byron Cody Cowley Iona 8 46 33 24 27 30 23 144 61 104 80 129 91 685 30 15 56 67 24 93 23 Relief Society Mill Creek Murray Second Murray Third Taylorsville Valley Center Davis Stake Centerville First Kaysville First North Farmington Denver Stake Crestmore Denver First Laramie Deseret Stake Delta Third Hinckley Leamington Sugarville Sutherland Callao Duchesne Stake Arcadia Hanna East Jordan Stake Butler East Midvale Garden View ~ Midvale First Midvale Second Union First Union Second Enrollment 109 80 103 75 107 487 100 87 32 354 36 61 30 12 100 34 24 55 6 31 23 570 69 107 66 54 91 95 88 Subscriptions Pct. No. 100 60 147 79 133 380 82 88 38 285 37 75 42 11 75 31 20 43 6 32 27 6401/2 70 92 75 143 105 124 78 82 101 119 81 103 123 140 92 75 91 83 78 100 103 117 112 101 127 120 128 104 104 106 Magazine Representative Edna B. Harvey Elizabeth Nelson Mary A. Parker Bessie Jensen Myrtle Vincent Dora M. Smoot Edith Tingey Myrtle K. Larkins Doris S. Rigby May M. Varner Donna Fowler Lucy M. Thompson Rose Eads Sarah Church Vera Bishop Delia Nelson Tressa Jenson Cora Larsen Inez Tripp Ora N. Holgate La Vera Moon Verna Bishop Roberta Antach Geneva Jacobson and Rose Alexander Bertha Brunson Evelyn Jensen Mary Jenkins LaVern Smart Lydia Cook Relief Society Franklin Stake Fairview Linrose Mapleton Preston Fifth Weston Garfield Stake Kingston Granite Stake Fairmont Forest Dale Hawthorne Lincoln Marlborough Nibley Park Richards Grant Stake Hillerest Lorraine Smith Grantsville Stake Erda Gridley Stake Chico. Grass Valley Gridley Oroville Yuba City Gunnison Stake Gunnison Enrollment 71 33 19 30 98 21 910 89 143 110 173 132 155 108 453 209 Subscriptions No. 66 26 27 28 87 21 929 89 143 111 183 136 156 111 384 94 81 80 15 181 18 24 49 20 47 88 Pet. Magazine Representative Bertha N. Cole Ruby J. Tanner Cora Knapp Emma B. Johnson Elnora Merrill Zelma Anderson Leone E. Carstensen Jennie Biesinger Sentella Pace Olive Erskine Elsie M. Marfell Ethel Arnold Emma Armstrong Elmea Flora Viola Cahoon Leah Miller Edith Elswood Elma Hampton Vivian Warr Violet Gray Carol McIntosh Nora Medlyn Florence Jensen Violet Gray Edna Johnson Orilla Wilkenson 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 East Mill Creek Stake Evergreen Grandview Rosecrest Wilford. Emery Stake Castle Dale: Clawson Cleveland Elmo Huntington Lawrence Orangeville Rochester Emigration Stake Eleventh Twelfth Thirteenth Twenty-first Twenty-seventh University Ensign Stake North Eighteenth North Twentieth West Ensign Farr West Stake Farr West Harrisville Marriott Mound Fort Plain City Slaterville 471 36 109 79 184 57112 80, 15 60 31 103 13 103 10 761 130 106 119 148 144 114 185% 81 96 475 49 74 50 102 98 32 86 100 109 T7 95 84 84 75 130 89 87 93 98 100 113 118 113 119 121 104 103 77 82 78 92 75 116 119 128 83 94 Eliza H. Groneman Florida Heugley Wilma Carter Minnie Kartchner Margaret Egelund Janice J. Scow Donna S. Huntington Jane Larsen Bell Allred Lillian I, Oviatt Ione Nielson Christina Hansen Blanche H. Nielson Delma Leslie Mary P. Jordan Annie De Lange Gertrude Russell Alma Erickson Myrtie B. Kenyon Eva Rydalch Clara H. Riggs Hazel V. Spencer Laverne Gill Geneve Holbrook Frances K. Pierce Elizabeth R. Garlick Wilhelmina L. Medell Sarah H. Parry Phyllis Hufsteller Sarah M. White Estella Ekins Highland Stake Highland Park Imperial Park Avenue Parleys Stratford Humbolt Stake Carlin Metropolis Winnemucca Wells Idaho Stake Bancroft Kelly-Toponce Idaho Falls Stake Ammon Iona Lincoln Idaho Falls Second Idaho Falls Third Idaho Falls Fifth Idaho Falls Sixth Inglewood Stake Brentwood Centinela Mar Vista Juab Stake Nephi North Juarez Stake Chuichupa Dublan Juarez Pacheco 483 143 58 72 87 123 116 19 13 12 31 79 30 682 106 92 49 105 106 112 112 73 107 124 100 160 23 33 62 9 470 128 46 80 124 92 91 17 10 14 24 68 25 713 110 92 49 105 111 126 120 66 85 104 89 133 20 39 53 97 90 79 111 143 75 78 89 77 117 86 83 105 104 100 100 100 105 113 107 90 79 84 89 83 87 118 85 122 Rae J. Ashton Elsie Nordberg Beulah Spencer Ella Jensen Helen E. Bennett Leora Christensen Jennie D. White Charlotte Ferguson Gladys S. Bake Leona Brinkerhoff Tressa Hyde HONOR ROLL Robenia Christensen Lenna Bowler Clemey Young Christie Heath Amanda Pearce and Ada Muncie Lucial Davies. Leah Jameson Julia B. Kirby Anna Erickson Maida Young Emily E. Smith Enna B. Kennington Mary G. Walton Isabelle Sidwell Jennie Bowman Bertie Vance Melvina Jones Mildred Farnsworth w Aula Haynie 8 Relief Society Kanab Stake Moccasin Kolob Stake Springville First Springville Second Springville Third Springville Fourth Springville Fifth Springville Sixth Lake View Stake Hooper Kanesville Riverdale Roy Lehi Stake Lehi First Lehi Fifth Lethbridge Stake Barnwell Claresholm Liberty Stake Third Eighth Ninth Harvard Liberty North Second South Second Logan Stake College Logan Second Enrollment 12 661 126 96 90 102 96 72 513 184 30 94 112 120 75 59 32 642 - 94 121 70 107 124 68 58 53 64 Subscriptions Bet. No. 1238 586 100 100 100 42 58 75 99 119 105 104 82 125 81 78 78 113 88 79 103 80 88 88 91 101 83 130 93 81 79 79 79 91 Magazine Representative Margaret Heaton Maud Thorn Addie Underwood Louisa Wainwright Ellen T. Giles Esther Johnson Maud Peterson Leora Sundbloom Mable S. Bingham Florence Naisbitt Elva R. Schultz Pear] Champneys Jane E. Hyden Matilda Phillips Ruby Meredith Hazel Jensen Artence Rice Lila B. Pressler Alta Goates Sarah Hedges Lila B. Pressler Louise Kemp Alice Russell Rhoda B. Jackson Vesta H. Cahoon Nettie Abrams Frances Smith Relief Society Malad First Malad Second Malad Third Pleasant View Portage Reynolds Samaria St. John Maricopa Stake Lehi Mesa Third Mesa Fifth Pine Superior Millard Stake Fillmore Fillmore Second Flowell Holden Kanosh Minidoka Stake Acequia Emerson Hazelton Paul Rupert First Moapa Stake Boulder City Bunkerville Las Vegas First Las Vegas Second Littlefield Enrollment 74 101 107 30 56 11 42 87 33 108 155 18 14 589 134 77 28 97 89 34 22 26 39 39 560 83 35 130 88 14 Subscriptions Pet. No. 77 90 94 26 561/2 12 43 38 30 114 120 17 14 4511/, 107 80 28 77 84 27 18 31 40 30 524 62 31 114 113 13 104 89 88 87 101 109 102 103 91 106 77 94 100 77 80 104 100 79 94 79 82 119 103 77 94 75 89 88 128 93 Magazine Representative Pearl W. Thomas Eliza Johns Jemima Opperman Ada Ipsen Zina Harris Mabel J. Smith Emma Waldron Sara Pierce Naomi M. Nicoll Nina Stapley Lucy D. Chesley Ina P. Hunt Leona Robertson Melva W. Anderson Nada Melville Gussie Marshell Jennett Dimmick Della Hunter Elda Whitaker Hattie A. Hurd Louie Meacham Delilah J. Wickham Veda Platts Maybell Stevenson Lavon Adams Ellen Lloyd Ruby Leavitt Zella Wendel Mary W. Peters Minerva McKnight RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 330 Logan Sixth Providence First Young Long Beach Stake Bellflower Compton Compton Center Fullerton Huntington Beach Long Beach North Long Beach Park View Santa Ana San Pedro Wilmington Los Angeles Stake Arlington Hollywood Wilshire Lost River Stake Leadore Leslie Lost River Salmon Lyman Stake Manila Mt. View Rock Springs Superior Malad Stake Cherry Creek Holbrook 132 81 24 802 68 52 70 43 30? 145 108 157 48 32 49 68 95 107 14 25 35 62 25 20 66 28 490Y, 21 16 91 100 96 96 92 90 111 84 111 100 92 100 100 80 91 79 79 84 88 76 92 77 100 95 169 76 93 100 94 Martha Hug Clara Astle Emma Speth Annie Pittam Lettie Houston Georgenia Silver Henny S. Thomas Erthel Thatcher Lura Lockett Beatrice Corbridge Ellen Bramley Mary E. Myers Edith Scovil Josephine Teague Maggie Stoddard Ethel B. Timms Charlott O'Connor Eunice Van Slooten Edna Walton Wanda Malstrom Evelyn Pearson Merle Hodges Sarah Anson Selma Carpenter Elizabeth Bateman Martha Rock Fern A. Willie Thelma M. Jones Alice J. Hubbard Montpelier Stake Morgan Stake Moroni Stake Mount Graham Stake El Paso Branch 9 Gila 17 Mount Jordan Stake Draper Second 80 100 104 77 98 127 ni Nola Hannig Lavene Leavitt Barbara Robison Myrtle Steckler Jennie Sleight Elva Tanner Lola Skinner Eleanor Saxton Geniveve Kunz Faye London Ruth Francis Julia Carrigan Lilly Clark Agnes Gee Ardelle B. West Jennie Hubbard Ruth C. Romney Ella Farley Alice B. Gordon Edith Worden Lucy Barney Edna Richins Sarah Harrison Bertha C. Smith Lorraine D, Archibald Mary Smith HONOR ROLL 331 Logandale Mesquite Overton Bern Geneva Montpelier Fourth Nounan Raymond Wardboro Croydon Devil's Slide North Morgan Richville Freedom Solomonville Virden Crescent Granite Sandy Second 53 71 54 25 31 val 14 13 22 14 22 47 21 14 26 68 47 26 83 Relief Society Mount Ogden Stake Enrollment Ogden Twenty-third 65 Nampa Stake Kuna Marsing Melba Nampa First Nebo Stake Payson Second Spring Lake Nevada Stake Kimberly Lund McGill Ruth New York Stake Bay Ridge Manhattan Queens Westchester North Box Elder Stake Bear River 40 33 30 63 Brigham City Third 178 Brigham City Fourth Brigham City Seventh Corinne Evans Harper Honeyville 198 61 86 21 28 70 No. 77 31 26 27 63 106 Subscriptions Pct. 118 78 79 90 100 77 75 92 78 83 100 75 80 96 98 85 108 132 100 100 126 100 129 130 100 Magazine Representative Pearl C. Baggs Sybil Johnson Mildred Percifield Myrtle Wood Florence Adams Zora Hurst Anna Thomas Erma Wolfenstein Edith Reed Anna Hugg Maud Mufflin Ethel L. Handley Lilly Arveseth Louise Hucke Viola Fulton Mrs. Edward E. Smith Mary Noel Rigby Adaline Anderson Eliza P. Taggart LaVerna F. Jeppson Lila D. Wright Rose B. Nelson Margaret Smith Liona R. May LaVoy H. Chlarson Relief Society North Weber Stake Ogden Third Oahu Stake Kaimuki Oakland Stake Diamond East Richmond Elmhurst Fairfield Hayward Maxwell Park Napa Oakland Pittsburg Richmond Vallejo Ogden Stake Eden Huntsville Liberty Ogden Fourth Ogden Sixth Ogden Thirteenth Ogden Twentieth Oneida Stake Glendale Preston Third Riverdale Oxford Oquirrh Stake Granger First Enrollment 119 36 922 84 53 89 14 63 60 29 95 40 47 54 789 39 96 22 136 152 162 182 11 95 43 28 765 118 No. 122 27 Subscriptions Pet. 1038 75 Magazine Representative Martha M. Burnett Elizabeth P. Lambert Lila F. Graham Edna Torgenson Darlene Brown Beth R. Manning Edith Swartz Helen Smith Geraldine Compton Gwendolyn Mufish Edna E. Doxey Berma Maughan Meryl Asay Helen A. Shurtleff Lois D. Smith Eva Hogge Aduana J. Aldows Florence Hill Violet Perkins and Rosella Ellis Lottie Ellis Itha Bieler Viola Martin Eulalia W. Larson Myrtle Anderson Barbara S. Meek Oneida Anderson Gladys U. Baldee Edna Hill RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 332 North Carbon Stake Castle Gate 64 Helper 74 Scofield 13 Standardville 24 North Davis Stake 687 Clearfield First 97 Clearfield Second 67 East Layton 78 Syracuse 110 Sahara Village 15 North Idaho Falls Stake 641 Beaver Creek 16 Coltman 44 Hamer 24 Idaho Falls First 87 Idaho Falls Fourth 131 Idaho Falls Seventh 75 Milo 43 Osgood 52 Shelton 43 Terreton 29 Ucon 97 North Sanpete Stake Milburn 14 Mountainville 14 Mount Pleasant South 139 North Sevier Stake Aurora 80 Redmond 85 Vermillion 22 Mary Babcock Estella Gale Sarah Donaldson Jennie Kofford Golda Williams Zella Smith Ida Stoddard Vera A. Adams May Sessions Katherine Benton Margaret Sayer Afton L. Thomas Mrs. Arthur L. Nelson Bernice Bybee Nettie Brown Alberta Staker Ethol D. Lees Emily Palmer Annie Morgan Dale Burtenshaw Marie Acor Helen J. Tracy Fannie M. Graham LaRue Burnside Bernice Coates Ila Shepherd Stella Peterson May Gledhill Granger Second 109 Palmyra Stake 770 Birdeye 10 Lake Shore 70 Leland 46 Palmyra 40 Spanish Fork First 80 Spanish Fork Second 100 Spanish Fork Third 110 Spanish Fork Fourth 92 Spanish Fork Fifth 102 Thistle 21 Park Stake 697 Parowan Stake New Castle 20 New Harmony 25 Pasadena Stake 806 Alhambra 92 Baldwin Park 53 Belvedere 91 Eastmont 83 El Monte 62 El Sereno 41 Mission Park 58 Monrovia 67 Montebello. 64 103 103 114 101 130 127 112 111 101 107 107 100 116 Hattie L. Woodbury Fannie P. Little Myrtle D. Russon Hannah E. Coon Lenora Gull Rachel Spencer May Barney Myrtle L. Woffenden; Ruth Roach Dottie Neilson Grace Meiling Pearl Cloward Hazel J. Christensen Ruth J. Hone Kate Anderson Jennie White Esdale W. Kelsey Margaret Runnels Anna Buie Rachel Larsen HONOR ROLL Cora B. Murie Geneva H. Gillies Emma G. Neilson Sadie Liebig Bertha Raymond Affa Caldwell Ivy Elwood Estella Teetro Mary Wilde Dorothy McAllister Rose Jackson Martha Hanks Rose Willard 333 Hercules Pleasant Green Spencer Salem Emigration First Tenth Enoch 18 105 50 99 68 130 157 35 Relief Society Pasadena Rosemead Phoenix Stake Avondale Buckeye Capitol Glendale Phoenix First Phoenix Second Phoenix Third Phoenix Fourth Pocatello Stake Fort Hall Pocatello Second Pocatello Sixth Pocatello Seventh Pocatello Twelfth Enrollment 71 60 468 18 11 62 41 109 76 113 38 665 22 145 80 51 54 Pocatello Thirteenth 105 Portneuf Stake Garden Creek Marsh Center McCammon Merrill Swan Lake Virginia Provo Stake - Bonneville Manavu Provo Fifth Provo Seventh Provo Eighth Provo Ninth 27 18 87 12 29 34 591 90 91 82 95 75 62 Subscriptions No. Pet. 84 60 524 15 12 90 51 96 145 36 547 17 164 73 49 48 117 118 100 112 83 109 145 124 88 104 128 95 82 77 113 91 96 89 111 100 89 78 75 86 91 96 80 162 82 80 109 85 Magazine Representative Mable Martin Gwen Boyd Mildred Smithson Mary Hunt Gertrude Skousen Minnie Aston Julia Kremer Clara Dell Dewitt Phoebe Thomson Edith Alexander Florence Clint Alta R. Swallow Irene Wood Loal Griggs Lillie Woodland Melva Ellsworth Bertha Glick Mary Howells Lucile Capell Gertrude Paris Zina Orgill La Vene Pilgrim Marie Henderson May Barfus Elsie Moffitt Edyth R. Maxfield Olive Taylor Fannie S. Whimpey Mary Josie Nellie Long Ophelia Edwards Relief Society Rigby Second Rigby Third Rigby Fourth Ririe Riverside Stake Center Fifteenth Riverside Roosevelt Stake Ballard Randlett Roosevelt Sacramento Stake Arcade Homestead Stockton Sutter Tracy Woodland St. George Stake Gunlock Mt. Trumbull Pine Valley St. George Center St. George South Santa Clara Veyo Washington Enrollment 143 160 515 Subscriptions No. 46 54 75 102 110 44 53 20 128 400 60 Pat. 82 113 100 107 100 77 86 189 0 80 78 100 85 110 105 120 112 75 117 78 92 81 77 83 100 83 Magazine Representative Ruby Wolfensberger Ada C. Doman Elma Holbrook Ines E. Laughlin Eva Gledhill Anna M. Schoenhals Hillevi Daniels Ellen Bracken Jessie P. Pickup Fern Benson Marie Gibby Henrietta Murdock Lesslie H. Stubbs Jennette E. Rooker Alice Earheart Sarah Dana Vendha Gordon Helen F. Hafen Rayma Bowler Maurine Bundy Elizabeth L. Jacobson Ida McAllister Nellie W. Bringhurst Selina Hafen Mildred Bowler Ione C. Waite 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 Raft River Stake Malta Moulton Sublett Yost Reno Stake Carson Fallon Hawthorne Lovelock Portola Reno Sparks Westwood Rexburg Stake Archer Burton Hibbard Independence Lyman New Dale Plano Rexburg Second Rexburg Third Rexburg Fourth Teton City Rigby Stake Fidelity Garfield Grant Lewisville Lorenzo Menan Palisade Rigby First 129 49 10 11 15 80 117 125 100 94 98 100 100 79 100 100 98 112 117 85 114 90 83 88 125 122 103 83 75 119 77 92 86 89 102 104 104 100 100 107 Alice O. Neddo Alice O. Neddo Julia H. Clark Sylvia Olsen Eva Montgomery Rosetta Gillies Marie Tononi Viola Miller Ada M. Jensen Florence Milich Lucy Kenny Eva Goff Elmina Cummins Susan Tribe Mary E. Hunt Leah B. Cheney Zina Clark Sophia Saurey Pauline Perry Celia Hales Louie Graham Beulah Steel Ellen Cook June P. Ricks Emogene Manwaring Mary Nibley Alta B. Barnes Hattie Jacobson Ethel Groom Annie Hymas Donna Casper La Retta Tibbitts Grace Berrett Helma Oakden Lois Taylor St. Johns Stake Alpine Eagar Luna Nutrioso St. Joseph ?take Ashurst Bryce Central Emery Eden Globe Miami Pima Thatcher Salt Lake Stake Capitol Hill Fourteenth Ninteeenth Twenty-second Twenty-third San Bernardino Stake Fontana Ontario Riverside San Bernardino Second Victorville San Diego Stake College Fairmount Hillcrest Logan Heights 17 96 34 16 541 25 21 60 23 26 49 50 124 163 833 719 124 83 100 39 303 20 33 53 55 29 14 339 35 58 59 35 23 77 26 15 451 25 16 50 18 20 37 50 109 126 689 91 130 16 88 41 305 22 29 63 65 45 15 315 35 67 52 48 Eliza Jepson Harriet Pulsipher Erma B. Laney Thelma Mangum Pearl Cluff Hazel B. Bryce Nellie Dixon Winnie Smith Lucy A. Chesley Eliza Carpenter Ann R. Shaw Ella Sims Rula Colvin Nira P. Lee Mabel H. Burgoyne Anna S. D. Johnson Mary A. Kirkham Frieda Jones May S. Hawkes Frances E. J. Dastrup Ruth Irwin Alice S. Walker Eunice B. Allred Donna Jensen Laura Lee Hilliker Sarah Lewis Fay Adams Hanna Borneman Gladys Brimhall Ruth Rigby Olive B. Smith Nancy Byrd HONOR ROLL 335 Pomona: Relief Society San Fernando Stake Elysian Park 70 Garvanza Van Nuys 62 San Francisco Stake 477 Enrollment Balboa Burlingame Mission Naglee Park Palo Alto Redwood City San Francisco San Jose Sunset Willow Glen San Juan Stake Blanding Bluff La Sal Lockerby Moab San Luis Stake Morgan Richfield 34 63 24 59 Santaquin-Tintic Stake Elberta Eureka 16 72 Subscriptions No. 60 30 55 84 33 25 53 452 40 48 17 79 Pet. 83 77 79 V7 100 Magazine Representative Abbie Kimball Maurine McEwen Ruia Olson Elizabeth Burnett Venice Lund Leona Allen Thora Ward Nell Marie Benson Mary Sernack Betty H. Bevan Eleanor Guinn Lula J. Wall Agnes Felch Marie Meier Ann E. Savard Eliza J. Horsfield Josephine Danford June Ellis Lucille P. Wright Bernice Burtenshaw Eva Johnson Inez Stevens Maxine Johnson Mabel Johnson Grace Price EuDell Hutchinson Harriet E. Barney Melba Hansen Relief Society Showlow Snowflake Taylor Winslow Woodruff South Box Elder Stake Enrollment 52 132 66 56 20 625 Brigham City Second 105 Brigham City Sixth Willard South Davis Stake Bountiful First Bountiful Fifth Orchard South Bountiful West Bountiful South Los Angeles Stake Downey Firestone Park Grant Huntington Park ? Manchester Matthews Maywood South Gate Vermont @ Walnut Park South Ogden Stake Ogden Ninth Ogden Eighteenth Uintah 100 87 725 134 36 90 98 136 832 61 34 46 111 96 Subscriptions Pct. No. 44 115 59 48 21 10471/ 85 87 89 86 105 82 120 127 92 83 87 128 106 81 82 126 108 168 120 115 154 119 133 115 126 122 100 110 83 Magazine Representative Naomi Bushman Lydia Peterson Idell H. Solomon Hazel H. Wilhelm Charlotte Allen Florence Baird Ezma L. Knudson Elizabeth Christofferson Martha V. Wells Jean M. Bangerter Lottie Ballard Norma S. Benoit Leona H. Arbuckle Cora M. Nelson Norma Taylor Etta Glover Florence Heath Anna Struhs Florence Neiswander Hazel Dunford Ida Snyder Ramona Wells Lillie Griffiths Yuline Neilsen Seraph Allred Viva Wright Ada Gibbons Nellie Vander Zee Regine Anderson 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 North Park Ocean Beach Reseda San Fernando 72 39 a3} 28 Seattle Stake Bellingham Everett Olympia Queen Ann Renton West Seattle Sevier Stake Greenwich Richfield First Richfield Second Richfield Third Sigurd Venice Sharon Stake Sharon Shelley Stake Basalt Firth Goshen Kimball Shelley First Taylor Smithfield Stake Smithfield First Snowflake Stake Claysprings Flagstaff Heber Holbrook Joseph City Lakeside Pinedale 496 36 18 18 47 37 61 660 17 110 100 94 45 50 42 530 45 54 62 18 76 33 85 602 24 63 23 50 54 43 19 386 32 26 14 50 30 62 556 16 121 101 94 34 39 50 427 AT 60 50 30 68 27 76 562 18 63 23 43 54 50 16 78 89 144 78 106 81 102 84 94 110 101 100 76 78 119 111 167 Melva S. Westra Ella M. Petrie Ida Hansen Mary Canning Birdie S. Bean Audrey Edwards Hazel B. Doble Vilda J. Helquist Mildred Nielson Mary Emett Elise Stillman Anna M. Nielson Maurine Snedeger Rinda B. Buchanan Lovisa A. Mangum N. Florence Hanny Thelma Hoskins Grace Smith Rozena Dial Florence Gifford Diantha Cox and Dora Cox Marvel Peterson Jessie Littledike Coral S. Peterson Nellie M. Hunt Martha W. Thomas June Brewer Myrtle T. Greer Maurine Porter Luella Burk Jane M. Jackson South Salt Lake Stake 518 Burton 80 Central Park 91 Columbus 100 Eldredge 92 Miller 90 South Gate 65 South Sanpete Stake Ephraim South 103 South Sevier Stake Monroe North 113 South Summit Stake 369 Southern Arizona Star Valley Stake 630 Auburn 29 533 83 95 126 93 70 66 47 85 95 48 93 29 311 27 41 85 37 30 291 31 46 40 54 47 521 85 23 32 39 60 103 104 104 126 101 78 102 85 83 84 83 82 138 84 113 79 125 103 100 79 86 110 93 93 104 83 83 ne 97 103 115 Hedy T. Davies Alice Anderson Florence Sandberg Hannah Dietrich Melvina Dust Leona Watson Mary McCashland Clarissa Hansen Agusta Olsen Ada Dyring Hettie Dalton Josie Nielson Lillian Bridges Arlene B. Lemon Arlene B. Lemon Veda Snyder Kathryn E. Hansen Neoma Isakson LeVene Frazier Bertha McGee Hazel Spears Mary U. Haynie Eva Harmon Florence Bateman Mary L. Schnebly Roene Barrus Laura E. Lee Marie Cranney Rozina Casto Gwen Wolfley Maud Ranzenberg HONOR ROLL 337 Ephraim North Manti Center Annabella Sevier Marion Oakley Park City Second Peoa Woodland Stake Bisbee Douglas Pomerene St. David Whitewater Afton North Bedford Etna Fairview 55 113 58 21 24 52 68 36 30 367 36 42 43 58 45 103 83 38 52 Relief Society Freedom Grover Osmond Thayne Sugar House Stake Bryan Edgehill Laurelcrest Wasatch Summit Stake Cluff Upton Taylor Stake Magrath First Magrath Second Raymond First Raymond Second Stirling Tyrells Lake Welling Teton Stake Bates Cedron Darby Victor Timpanogos Stake Lindon Manila Enrollment 82 42 33 - 62 155 151 51 135 21 15 513 77 90 92 130 64 11 22 26 19 23 71 499 73 44 Pleasant Grove First 107 Subscriptions No. 77 42 26 62 126 130 65 126 16 12 533 79 98 82 136 72 20 24 26 20 22 75 461 73 39 107 Pet. 94 100 79 100 81 86 127 93 76 80 104 Magazine Representative Carol Luthi Laura C. Astle Mabel Allred Leta Coffman Catherine Sipkema Afton S. Farnsworth Pearl J. Boyle Florence H. Tate Florence B. Staples Eva Jacobson Lisadore B. Crookston Beula Bennett Freda Henderson Irene Cooper Ivy Jensen Lulu Michelson Clara E. Selk Anna Wilde Erma Wood Leatha Kunz Eva Hillman Bernice Atkinsen Lucile H. Walker Ella Smith Marie Brown Anne Nelson Relief Society Utah Stake Provo Fourth Provo Sixth Uvada Stake Caliente Hiko Pioche Ursine Wasatch Stake Center Charlston Daniel Heber First Heber Second Heber Third Midway First Midway Second Wallsburg Washington Stake Fairview Washington Wayne Stake Grover Hanksville Lyman Teasdale Weber Stake Ogden Eleventh Terrace Enrollment 118 105 70 6 62 9 604 26 37 50 91 98 112 72 76 42 36 58 93 50 Subscriptions No. 106 86 72 40 Pet. 90 82 79 83 131 100 112 135 122 104 114 110 111 114 103 108 75 84 78 90 89 85 17 80 Magazine Representative Ethel Lundahl Jane B. Evans Vera Calvert Jewel S. Hansen Hertha Kroencke Zina Hammond Lillie L. Duke Lila Christensen Thresa Simons Sarah C. Price Violet L. Olpin Edna Young Ethel Johnson Celeste Van Wagoner Thelma Blood Areva Boren Lorraine Monn Dorothy B. Billings Nellie Rymer Elora Ekker Anetta Maxfield Angeline H. Coleman Viola M. Royle Thelma Weir 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 Pleasant Grove Second 98 Pleasant Grove Third 90 Windsor Tooele Stake Stockton Tooele First Tooele Fourth Twin Falls Stake Kimberly Twin Falls First Uintah Stake Ashley Bonanza Glines Jensen Maeser Naples Tridell Vernal First Vernal Third Whiterocks Union Stake Baker Imbler LaGrande First LaGrande Second Pendleton Union 87 32 79 94 41 121 648 41 10 40 53 75 71 36 62 74 20 310 40 23 74 70 35 42 81 68 93 26 62 79 38 117 576 82 14 38 46 77 71 37 66 90 16 290 41 21 69 70 36 89 107 Josie Rasmussen Marjorie Weeks Blanche Nielson Elva Benson Mrs. John D. Speirs Pearl Spray Nina B. Cunningham Lenore Carroll Sarah H. Richardson Annie Morrison Zora Gurr Viola Burns Ida Murry Rhoda Hatch Myrtle Collier Eva Trujillo Mary A. Eaton Alice Billings Myrtle Hoopes Viola Fullmer Sadie E. Shelton Ella Fox Edna Condit Geneva Westenskow Helen R. Mansel) Clarice Kohler Weiser Stake Cascade Fruitvale Huntington Letha McCall Nyssa Ontario Owyhee Vale Weiser Wells Stake Belvedere Ivins Jefferson McKay McKinley Waterloo Wells West Jordan Stake Bluffdale Copperton Herriman Riverton First Riverton Second West Pocatello Stake Arbon Pocatello First Pocatello Third 1370 174 206 226 113 170 111 146 708 46 60 42 73 74 743 20 83 158 381 13 3 11 38 8 75 44 28 44 60 12041, 156 180 287 1221/, 127 95 117 53314 42 53 54 73 79 719 15 85 128 81 100 100 138 90 114 121 80 100 110 98 88 90 87 127 108 75 86 80 75 91 88 129 100 107 97 75 102 81 Fannie Chandler Clara MeMurdie Irene Burt Lucinda Harrington Katie Sims Violetta Smith Selma Poulsen Minnie Christiansen Vivian Ashley Avis Belnap Fannie Chandler HONOR ROLL Edith H. Koelliker Rowena Jensen Merle Wennhold and Claribel A. Griffith Edith Jones Rebecca Jones Cleone Layton and LeVern Black Foncet Young Isabella Brooks Olivia M. Egbert Vina Webb Lucille Hansen Agnes Dansie Judith Morgan Blanche Myers Reta Austin Blanche Bailey Emma Hurst Maude Selover 339 No. Magazine Magazine Pet. Enroll Subscriptions Representative No. Pet. Relief Society Pocatello Fifth Pocatello Ninth Pocatello Tenth 89 18 103 Pocatello Eleventh 107 Rockland Woodruff Stake Hilliard Yellowstone Stake Ashton Chester Egin Farnum Green Timber Heman Kilgore Parker St. Anthony First St, Anthony Third Twin Groves Young Stake Allison Cortez Jewett Kirtland Kline Mancos Red Mesa Shiprock Zion Park Stake Hurricane North Hurricane South LaVerkin Rockville Springdale 71 327 101 59 94 152 63 113 76 91 142 89 120 96 93 78 121 124 100 100 108 100 150 116 150 88 100 75 83 135 100 109 106 90 88 90 106 76 82 132 Anna Egbert Leone Baldwin Anna Martin Hattie Tolman Zina Eliason Lucille Brown Katie S. Rudd Juanita Osborne Edna Rose Eva Dexter Geneva French Dora Stegelmier Fanny F. Hunter Hedwig Herschi Chloe Rice Ada B, Christensen Vesta H. McDowell Elsia Huskinson Lois F. Palmer Verna Behrman Annie Hinton C. Mae Hunt Lois Palmer Loretta Slade Nina M. Halls Lora Brady Josephine Maher Jessie H. Gibson Annabell Hall Lillian Roundy Sarah A. Sanders Vilo DeMille Della Hardy Oshawa Toronto Central States East St. Louis Hutchinson Joplin Kansas City Larned Leavenworth Miami Oklahoma City Sedalia Stillwater Tulsa East Central States Bluefield Charlston Elizabeth City Goldsboro Huntington Knoxville Norfolk Roanoke North Carolina West Durham Greensboro Jackson Springs 3 41 20 14 15 6 Eastern States Mission Bradford Buffalo Canandaigua 7 14 9 3 32 14 7 17 38 8 9 10 23 8 10 12 100 78 93 78 106 78 80 90 143 Ella F. Crouter Margaret Schulzke Leah B. Rocks Arline Hammel Louise Crouch Kathryn L. Squire Ruby M. Freeman Anna E. Bowen Mrs. J. E. Sandmire Pearl Anderson Augusta Rowlette Harriet V. Berry Mamie L. Moore Laura Hambrick Mrs. W. E. Edens Lorna H. McPherson Bertie Epps Ona Schroath Marjorie Powell Minnie Lee Woodward Odell Gladden Georgia Bennett Carrie Stevens Betty Lee Mary Ellen Lovell Louise C. Winspear Nellie Lodge RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 Relief Society Subscriptions Representative Enrollment Australian Adelaide Bankstown Brisbane Enmore Glen Huon Hurstville Melbourne Perth Woollahra California Imperial Valley E! Centro Las Flores Lompoc Santa Maria Mojave Desert Barstow Lancaster 'Tehachapi Trona Banning Elsinore Santa Barbara Oxnard Santa Barbara South Coast Escondido Laguna Beach Canadian Mission Brantford Kingston Kitchener 240 14 168 SO? 1) 00 335 128 Ore 140 115 81 145 105 260 300 113 93 289 75 91 114 135 92 118 78 133 100 80 125 96 114 80 88 100 76 100 120 75 Violet Cook Ivory Crane Rea Stewart Nell Brown Margaret Rood Margery Watson Elsie F. Parton Katie Hokin Eunice Compton Mavis L. Burroughs Thelma Miller Mrs. Thomas Call Avis D. Moscrip Lydia B. Triplett Ola Mae Force Ethel M. Wills Ruth D. Brown Etta Williamson Laura Corbridge Cora Seymour Virginia Gardner Ivie Anderson Josephine R. Roberts Elizabeth C. Andersen Elizabeth G. Wahlen Mae Peterson Jessie R. Ursenbach Gladys Meek Delcie E. Nobes Beatrice Kuehner Chambersburg Palmyra Philadelphia Pittsburgh Princeton Reading Rochester Washington York New England Bangor Concord Fall River Lynn New Bedford Newport Springfield North Central States 214 Billings Duluth Ft. Frances Glasgow Minneapolis Tower Northern California Alturas Coalinga Eureka Fresno East Grants Pass Hydesville Tone King City Merced Oakdale 30 11 3 11 54 4 100 150 133 100 100 155 100 100 125 100 127 81 81 100 114 100 75 Beulah Shoemaker Grace L. Bump Carrie Obendorfer Virginia Birtcher Marion Thoburn Pearl D. Yeager Helen E. Boas Hazel Danley Sylvia E. Rahn HONOR ROLL Georgia Ward Jennie Anderson Mary A. West Christie L. Olsen Eleanor Rimmor Mary A. Frost Mable G. Fales Ann J. Killpack June Hoen Mary A. Hanson Ethel C. Shine Emma _ Humphries Nina C. Thorne Mrs. Ross A. Bruneau Mary B. Powell Ethyl Buttcane Vivian C. Bonniksen Hazel Facer Anna R. Neff Mima Williams May H. Frasure Ebba D. Terry Nora Johnson Mary C. Rich 341 Relief Society Orland Pacific Grove Placerville Santa Cruz Santa Rosa Sunnyvale Watsonville Northern States Central Indiana Cambridge City Columbus Enrollment 11 17 13 18 21 11 11 Central Ohio Dayton Marion North Indiana Muncie Peru North Michigan Flint North Ohio Cleveland North & South Illinois Bloomington Clinton Decatur Galesburg Springfield South Indiana Linton Subscriptions No. Pet. 10 14 13 15 18 9 12 91 82 100 83 86 82 109 81 79 117 88 100 138 100 Magazine Representative Hanna Bihler Letha Nuttal Grace DeGiovanni Audrey Sommer Martha Fisher M. Julia Sylvester Leah Butler Margaret E. Sharrer Bertha Lilly Alice King Frieda Surface lla Harvey Erma C. Boam Zella Knudson Elizabeth Stevens Auna Schmidt Helen St. Pierre Hazel Robison Rena P. Custer Neva M. Hursh Lettie Crews Freda Belle Allen Rena P. Custer Frances BE. Canady Ruby L. Anders Relief Society Great Falls Bynum Fairfield Golden Ridge Great Falls Simms Vaughn Missoula Allendale Charlo Hamilton Polson Northern Montana Chinook Cut Bank Harlem Havre Shelby Spokane Creston, B. C. Grand Coulee North Spokane Sandpoint Yakima Klickitat Pasco-Kennewick Sunnyside Toppenish Yakima Enrollment 126 16 20 13 39 11 27 18 38 32 10 No. 140 15 20 13 55 10 27 14 31 28 10 31 Subscriptions Pet. 111 94 100 100 141 91 100 79 Magazine Representative Rae E. Austin Lucy Stott Florence Davidson Leah Eddington Vera Nelson Anna Jensen Jetta Rushton Margaret Henderson Esther Swainston Oretta Blodgett Venetta Brower Olga Blatter Eleanor Packer Nelly Johnson Madge Johnson Mary Primm Dolly L. Wilcox Idella Thomson: Leona Hickman Madeline Ellis Virginia Pease Hannah E. Crimin Ada C. Richardson Jennie W. Stringham Lorraine O. Cobbley Retta Brashear Olga P. Paradis 342 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 South Indianapolis 49 West Iowa Des Moines West Michigan Battle Creek Gary Jackson Wisconsin Eau Claire Fond du lac Lyndhurst North western States Bend Buckley Fairbanks Gresham Oregon City Prineville Puyallup Redmond The Dalles Victoria, B. C. Veronia Washougal Butte Bozeman Helena Centra] Oregon Coos Bay Lebanon Roseburg Sweet Home 89 89 82 91 76 88 125 136 78 82 109 120 100 108 80 114 80 118 122 80 118 89 76 101 100 142 83 100 Eliza Christiansen Mabe] Hunt Amy M., Landeck Bessa P. Williams Haze] Branham Luella Schroeder Minnie McDougal Selma Hofman Lenora K, Bringhurst Jessie A. Kenning. Ton Ruby M. Smith Neva A, Funk Ruth E, Jones Vanda M. Marchant Bessie L., Colomb Rose Glick Irene Butler Juanita Hoffman Maneta Price Alice Carlson Maude L,. Dean Marie J, Monson Lucile Rossiter R., Miller Opal M. Smith Josephine Shurts Duvall Leone FE, Burnett Southern States Mission Centra] Florida Orlando Tampa Winter Haven Florida Gainsville San Mateo Springfield Wesconnett Georgia Atlanta Augusta Columbus East Point Macon Milledgeville North Alabama Elkmont McCalla 89 Effie F. Meeks 81 Sophronia Ae 119 Ruth Gray 78 Clyde Legler 122) 3 Marie Moore HONOR ROLL mM E s = 112 Carrie D. Valentine 100 Bertha G. Arline 100 Corene J, Bethea 122 Annie Ree Thomas 100 Essie M. Dukes 100 Aimee ?. Willis 117 Evelyn M. Tilton 188 Annie Johnson 86 Elizabeth Jammes 78 Bertha Cook 88 Madeline Cassele 118 Bertha Cook 76 Pauline Gilbert 100 Mary RE, Gibson 117, Lueille Bennett 79 Vallie Taylor 76 Pear] M. Thames 75 Ellen E. Ladner 86 Otilla Griner 122 Viola Lee 83 Ludie Bates 92 Mary Quinnelly 79 Nellie Caleote 100 Annie Lee Roberts 127 Mary L, Vining 343 Relief Society Enroll Subscriptions Magazine Relief Society Enroll Subscriptions Magazine No. Pet. Representative No. Pet. Representative + North Mississippi West South Carolina 75 76, 102 Mary Parris Senatobia 4 4 100 Stella Williams Abbeville 11 11 100 Allie E. Fant Aiken 4 a 100 Cathern Goldmon South Alabama 58 89 153 Mary E. McIntosh Azalia 16 47 7 Mary E. McIntosh Spartanburg 13 15 115 Annie Taylor Montgomery Magnolia aine Martin T se Missi Selma 4 3 75 Dora Tuberville  10 19 190 Elsine Martin North Texas 39 30 77 Annie M. Ellsworth Western Canadian South Carolina 156 131 84 Ida Smith Mission 94 82 87 Pearl C. Card Charleston 24 24 100 Belle S. Woods Beaver Crossing 17 13 76 Leah Evans Columbia 22 22 100 Lottie Joyner Edmonton 33 33 100 Christina Barker Darlington 12 9 75 Hegel, Sons Medicine Hat 13 11 85 ?, ? Regi 16 16 100 Isobel F. B Hartsville 25 20 80 Malcolm Fagan a Ridgeway 21 27 129 Lily N. Branham Western States South Florida 87 -??65-?75Nellio E, Cunning. Mission 438 Heatings am: Bradenton 6 (7 117 Lyndon Levins TT ?6?2)Ss?d107 Mary G. McNeil West Palm Beach 24 19 79 Lottie Brown Bridgeport 9 9 100 Mary Sue Chase Casper 21 21 100 G. Orollinger South Georgia 69 7 112 Lottie Dugger Colorado Springs 14 13 93 Ella Huffaker Moultrie 5 6 120 Mildred Barlow Council Bluffs 20 16 80 Gretta C. Charlies Axson 27 25 93 Cappie Mizell Fruita 17 15 88 Cora Dennis Savannah 18 24 133 Alberta Clifton Gallup 16 17 106 Plannie Davis Waycross 19 22 116 Arzella Jordan Hurley 10 9 90 Oletta Connell Lincoln 16 14 88 Rose L. Newbill West Florida 123 101 82 Mrs. Jeremiah Montrose 24 18 75 Bernice M. Bruner Sims North Platte 9 7 78 Artella Poulsen Bristol 14 13 93 Mrs. L. V. Adams Omaha sere  75 Inez N. Burt Olive 7 100 Julie Mae Kennedy Paonia 18 17 94 Mary C. Rogers Panama City 19 15 79 Mrs. D. D. Clanton Rapid City 8 8 100 Elizabeth Thomas Sink Creek 22 25 114 Mrs. Leo Sims Roswell 5 5 100 Afton T. Rich Telogia 8 8 80 Mattie Lee Duggar Sheridan 13 21 162 Alice Lamb RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 9146 FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for ''Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ACTIVITIES AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS Denver Stake Laramie Ward (Wyoming) ROM Denver Stake, under the presidency of Erma A. Rice, an interesting historical account of the Laramie Ward has been received through the president, Chloe B. Peterson: "Twenty-five years ago the Laramie Branch of the Relief Society was organized with Thurza Ellsworth Boyle as president, Mary Brown Bowman and Ida F. Lutz counselors, and Chloe B. Peterson, secretary-treasurer. Only a_ few L. D. S. Families were here DENVER STAKE, LARAMIE WARD (WYOMING) RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: Assistant Secretary Cornelia M. Quayle; Secretary Ila T. Davis; President Chloe B. Peterson; First Counselor Helena T. Hopkins; Second Counselor Mary Hunter. Page 345 346 permanently and we met in our homes. After sixteen years the Church built an institute and chapel. We now have a beautiful building to meet in, with the use of an entertainment room, library, and study halls. "Each year we have observed March 17th with an appropriate program and entertainment. This year (1945) a covered dish dinner was served in the evening to twenty-eight members and their husbands. Four large tables were set and decorated, one for each season of the year. Persons whose birthdays occurred in a certain season were seated at that particular table. Sister Marjean Hunter Wall took first place for her prize-winning winter decorations. Point-free hot dishes took the place of meat and four large birthday cakes were served. Janet Partridge sang two solos and a talk on the organization of the first Relief Society was given by Elizabeth Foster and a reading by Elizabeth Anderson. "During the summer we will meet twice a month, once for work and business and once for recreation, also for a pioneer day celebration and a park picnic. The mothers and daughters held their first banquet in this ward June 19, 1945. Over sixty were present. All members are good and willing workers and we have plenty of good times along with our work. Each year we hold a rummage sale. We made $130 on the last sale. Out in the mission our work has been hard at times, but now we are organized as a ward in the Denver Stake. Relief Society is indeed a help to all who attend. The Lord has blessed us here. May he bless all the organizations throughout the world." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 Me ELIZABETH A. BENNETT Malad Stake, Malad Second Ward Malad Stake (Idaho) Malad Second Ward ' AMELIA W. SPENCER, teacher trainer, Malad Second Ward, reports an unusual record in the visiting teachers' program: "Recently when our Malad Second Ward Relief Society was reorganized, the new presidency and the bishopric met together with all the visiting teachers, and every teacher was given a blessing and set apart for her work. "As our bishop, W. W. Thomas, interviewed each teacher, it was found that many of them have marvelous service records. One, especially, has a record of fifty-eight years of continuous service in the Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD "Sister Elizabeth A. Bennett was born in England in 1864. She was baptized into the Church in 1881, and arrived in Salt Lake City in 1883 with her young baby. Her husband, John A. Bennett, had come to the Valley two months earlier. When she was twenty years old, Elizabeth Bennett joined her first Relief Society and, in June 1888, she was set apart as a teacher in the Relief So- 347 city at Albion, Idaho, and has served in various ways in the Relief Society ever since, which gives her a record of fifty-eight years of service. She is now eighty-one years young and visits her district every month. I cautioned her to be careful and not overdo her strength, and she said: 'Does it ever injure anyone to do her duty in the Church?' This is typical of her spirit." GUNNISON STAKE (UTAH), CENTERFIELD WARD WOOL CARDING ACTIVITY Front row, left to right: Amanda Fielsted, Christena Jensen; Mary Rosenberg, second counselor; Hannah Anderson, Mary Christensen. Standing, left to right: Alvira Hansen, first counselor; Verl Goates, president; Mearl Christensen, Jean Jensen, Naomia Jensen. Gunnison Stake (Utah) RLENE L. HENRIE, president Gunnison Stake Relief Society, reports a revival of pioneer thrift in the activities of her stake: "The sisters are keeping an old art alive and this has proved very helpful during these many months of shortages. They not only carded all the wool for their welfare assignments, but have helped many families with their bedding problems. They have made many articles of clothing from used material in an effort to stretch the clothing budget." 348 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 GUNNISON STAKE (UTAH), HAMILTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS EXHIBITING CLOTHING Front row, left to right: Othella Sorenson, president; Deon Peterson, Henrietta Frandsen, Emily Knighton.. Back row, standing, left to right: Erma Pickett, second counselor; Lena Madsen, Stena Hendrickson, Lavern Pickett, Bertha Olsen, Sister King, a visitor, Maudie Clements, Minnie Taylor, Ruth Westlund. YELLOWSTONE STAKE, KILGORE BRANCH (IDAHO) MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS Photograph taken at the home of Sister Hedwig Hirschi. Sixty-four mothers and daughters were present. NOTES FROM THE FIELD worn by Sister Dorothea Barnsen, Standing, extreme left, was worm at President Lincoln's inaugural ball. 350 Oahu Stake (Hawaii) Waikiki Ward FROM Oahu Stake, under the presidency of Sister Mary A. Tyau, a ward Relief Society anniversary celebration is reported by Sister Inez T. Waldron, former Waikiki Ward Relief Society president: "On July 4, 1945, it was ten years since the organization of the Waikiki Ward Relief Society by President Heber J. Grant and First Counselor J. Reuben Clark, which Photograph by EF. L. Waldron RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 event took place with the organization of the Oahu Stake, June 30, 1935. To celebrate the occasion, the sisters met in their lovely quarters in the Oahu Stake Tabernacle for a social and dinner. Each of the sisters wore a fresh Hawaiian flower lei made from some of Hawaii's many fragrant flowers. After dinner, special sewing projects for the armed services were continued, an activity to which this organization has contributed much since the outbreak of war in the Pacific." OAHU STAKE (HAWAII), WAIKIKI WARD RELIEF SOCIETY CELEBRATES ITS TENTH ANNIVERSARY Seated, left to night: Mary Dowse, Minerva Tarlton, Inez Waldron; Hattie Woolley, former president; Alice Reirson, first counselor; and Virginia Neiman. Standing, left to might: Mabel Lunt, Zola McGhie, Sister Hennig, President Geneva Musser, Mary Ann Boisse, Hannah Kindberg, Adelaide Fernandez, Rhea Woolley, Irene Brain, Irene Cannon, Elma Moody, Fern Clissol, Miriam Knapp, and Thora Chapman. Franklin Stake (Idaho) LICE S. MERRILL, former president Franklin Stake Relief Society, reports an unusually effective program held in connection with the stake priesthood meeting: "Inasmuch as the March stake priesthood meeting came on the NOTES FROM THE FIELD day following our anniversary, the Franklin Stake presidency asked our board to supervise the assembly program. Vaughn Larsen, a high councilman, sang "Face to Face," accompanied by Vera K. Cole of Fairview Ward. Talks were given by Bertha Woodward, counselor in the Franklin Ward, on the organization of the Relief Society, and by Mildred Anderson of the Preston Second Ward on the contributions which the Relief Society offers to the women of today. Sister Anderson closed her remarks with a very _ beautiful original poem, the last lines of which are: Relief Society! All hail to thee! Thy praise we sing this day; May your banner of love and service Be the guide that lights our way. "At the close of the program each ward officer was presented with a corsage by the stake board members and departmental work was carried out by the stake officers." ' East Jordan Stake (Utah) Midvale Second Ward FROM East Jordan Stake, where Vella Clarke Jones is president of the Relief Society, the activities of the visiting teachers have been particularly outstanding. In Midvale Second Ward, Emma Hardcastle Jenkins, ninety-two years old, the oldest person in Midvale, still goes around her block with her daughter Emma who is seventy years old. Mrs. Jenkins was married May 10, 1860, the day of the driving of the Golden Spike when the Union Pacific Railroad was completed to Ogden, Utah. Ten of her sixteen children 351 ee _-. EMMA HARDCASTLE JENKINS East Jordan Stake, Midvale Second Ward are living. She has_ thirty-seven grandchildren and over fifty greatgrandchildren. Weiser Stake (Idaho) McCall Ward FROM Weiser Stake, where Sister Erma B. Chadwick is president of the Relief Society, a report of the ambitious workers in McCall Ward comes from the Secretary Marjorie Willis: "The McCall Relief Society was organized December 18, 1943, with five women who later became officers and active members. The sisters have been willing workers and always co-operative, each desirous to work for the Society and not for herself. Last August we had two cooked food sales from which we netted twenty-eight dollars. We also have completed one quilt. 352 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 WEISER STAKE (IDAHO), McCALL WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND MEMBERS Left to right: President Helen H. Schroeder; First Counselor Velma Lappin; Secretary-Treasurer Marjorie Willis; Second Counselor Rose M. Burdett; and Sister Lois Stephenson, a member. "During bad weather the visiting teachers have found it easier to go on horseback because in this way they can cover mote territory in less time. Sister Burdett has most generously offered her home for the use of our meetings. It was in her home that the Society was organized. Last month we received a visit from a stake board member and honored her with a luncheon at_ Sister Burdett's home." Bannock Stake (Idaho) LIZA B. CHRISTIANSEN, president Bannock Stake Relief Society, submits, as part of a very interesting report of the well-directed activities in her stake, some helpful suggestions regarding The Relief Society Magazine which were compiled by Ida Sorenson, stake magazine agent: "In behalf of the stake board, I earnestly urge you to read and study the Magazine, thereby receiving the benefits the General Board intended you should. Come to class well prepared and able to take part in the ? discussion. Read the wonderful stories published in each Magazine. Let us read and study that we may become more enlightened and better qualified to carry on our work. Presidents, why not have a quiz in your meetings for a few minutes about the contents of each new Magazine the week after it arrives? See if this doesn't get your members interested in reading it" Uintah Stake (Utah) Vernal Third Ward ROM Uintah Stake, under the presidency of Mae T. Johnson, an unusual accomplishment in securing Magazine subscriptions has been reported. Vernal Third Ward has achieved 122 per cent subscriptions for the 1945 quota. This NOTES FROM THE FIELD high percentage was secured largely through the efforts of Sister Alice Billings, ward Magazine representative, who is over eighty years old. Sarah H. Richardson, stake Magazine representative, sends the following note regarding Sister Billings: "Sister Billings was born in Provo, Utah, December 25, 1865, a daughter of Evert Orser Mecham. She mained Alfred N. Billings, October 1 5, 1889. They made their home in Jensen, Utah. Eight children were born to them, six of whom are living and actively engaged in Church work. Sister Billings has been a widow for twenty years. She joined the Relief Society at the age of eighteen and served in several capacities in various wards until 1923, when she was made president of the Glines Ward Relief Society. She served in this office for six years, until she completely Jost her hearing, At Present she is a ALICE BILLINGS Uintah Stake, Vernal Third Ward representative in the Vernal Third Ward. She is very alert mentally and keen at al] times, a lovable little visiting teacher and Magazine Tepold lady, four feet eight inches tall," ee RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE May Weight Johnson What scroll of beauty and mosaic word Lies within, waiting to be heard. What glowing Surge caused a writer's heart to move The shuttle of thought through warp and groove, Unfolding a woven field of printed thread Whose legacy of culture is before us spread; Creative wisdom and intellect imbued, Social service advanced and renewed; Spiritual guidance with faith convene, Lighted by hope and love serene, Wounded not by its own assurance, The typed facsimile claims endurance. Comments from Magazine Readers With this belated renewal subscription, I must write a few words of appreciation for my Relief Society Magazines, and for the women of goodness, talent, intelligence and inspiration who lead and have led the women of the Church. The contents of the Magazine are so varied and far-reaching. It always offers intelligent and inspirational reading especially in times of illness or when one needs comfort, strength or courage. ?Glendale, Calif. I am a faithful reader of your Magazine and I do enjoy it immensely. You are doing a fine job and I personally want to thank you for such a fine magazine. ?Ogden, Utah I appreciate your Magazine very much. I think it is wonderful and hope to convert more people to my idea. Your 8 1/3 cents a month is a very small price to pay for such a fine women's magazine. ?Moscow, Idaho I have been a subscriber of your wonderful little Magazine for years, the best little book that comes into a home with four teen-age children who always read it before I ever get a chance. Just wouldn't be without it. Payson, Utah I have always enjoyed reading the Magazine for it is very uplifting and a character builder for any individual. The sisters should make an effort to live up to the many teachings that are written in the book. Wailuku, Maui, T. H. For about thirty-five years I have been an appreciative silent reader. When I lived on a homestead many years ago, the Magazine was such a welcome visitor, as it still is. Many otherwise long, lonely hours slipped by while I was absorbed in some cheery story or interesting lesson outline. I was really grateful for the diversion the Magazine afforded me. I do not want to miss any of the Magazines. They are a great help and an inspiration to me both spiritually and temporally. I am proud to say I have sent in subscriptions for fourteen out of the sixteen families in my visiting district. ?West Los Angeles, Calif. Please renew my subscription so that I may receive the next issue. I teach theology and I like to prepare ahead of time. I feel deeply appreciative for such a magazine in my home. The editorials alone are worth its price??Monrovia, Calif. My January issue of The Relief Society Magazine came today, and I wish I had words to express to you the appreciation I feel for this very fine publication. As I turned the pages and read each succeeding article, I felt what a wealth of material and spiritual uplift you have passed on to Relief Society workers. Your selection of material this month seems especially enticing to my spirit, and for that, and the fine work you are doing, I want to say, "Thank You." Salt Lake City I love the Magazine and enjoy reading every word within its cover. ?Gunlock, Utah I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine so much I always have it handy on a table or chair ready to read any time I get a few minutes??San Bruno, Calif. I like your Magazine. It is filling its niche with distinction ?Los Angeles, Calif. - I value the Magazine as my most important reading and study material. ?Provo, Utah We received The Relief Society Magazine yesterday and have read it almost through and enjoyed it thoroughly. The stories were fine and we had a good laugh. Graham, Washington Page 355 356 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY 1946 Comments from Magazine Writers I have appreciated your pertinent comments regarding my poems. I am especially happy that you are using this poem. It was written for a dear friend who recently lost the son mentioned, in France. ?Salt Lake City Enclosed you will find the article you asked me to write for The Relief Society Magazine. I congratulate you on the excellence of your Magazine. Independence, Mo. Please accept my heartfelt appreciation and thanks for the acceptance of my poem. My daughter and three daughters-in-law who reside in California, Idaho, and Maryland, and to whom I have for several years past presented a year's subscription to the Magazine, will be very happy to find this poem as frontispiece. Logan, Utah I write to thank you for your interest in my story which was published recently in The Relief Society Magazine. It was a real thrill of satisfaction for me to read it in print. Taking it all in all, it is a source of sound encouragement for me to try again. ?Ogden, Utah I was most pleased to learn from your letter that the article was so acceptable to you and the other sisters concerned. I thank you also for your thoughtfulness in mailing me a complimentary copy of your wonderful Magazine. I have long been a careful reader of The Relief Society Magazine and have found it to be a source of great inspiration and help to me, and I congratulate you on the quality of the material and the splendid arrangement of the same that is found in each issue. One could almost say the Magazine never "faileth." Logan, Utah The Relief Society Magazine certainly has always been most helpful to Utah writers, and I always feel honored to have anything of mine published in the Magazine.-?Ogden, Utah President Louise Y. Robison (Continued from page 297) Then said Sister Robison: "I wonder if there is anyone here who does not need the human touch. I wonder if there is a woman in the Church who, through the Relief Society, has not the opportunity of watching the one hour with those who are bearing heavy burdens. Sisters, you have been given that privilege, you can comfort and _ bless souls." E know she will enter on her new work "over there" with her head high, with eyes sparkling, with the enthusiastic zeal which characterized her work here, and with the same sweet humility which kept her always close to her Father in heaven. "Faith, hope and love, but the greatest of these is love." Sister Robison has great faith, a simple, absolute faith. She knows that God lives. She knows the gospel is true. I quote her again: "T believe firmly that the Gospel of Jesus Christ, a testimony that God lives, is the anchor that holds us and makes us feel secure." That was the message she always wished the Board Members to take to the stakes. "But God has spoken," she would say. "Let us make the women feel that God has spoken and that it behooves all to listen when Jehovah speaks." Great faith she had and hope and confidence. Love, the greatest of all gifts, she had in a superlative LOUISE Y. ROBISON degree. The great love she gave came back to her. One hears on every side, "Sister Robison will go down in history as the most beloved woman in the Church." She loved her family with a tender love. To hear her but speak their names was a joy, she put so much of pride and love into it. She loved her friends and how loyal she was _ to them. She loved children. That any child should go through life handicapped for lack of medical or dental care or proper food, was to her intolerable. "Don't let a child suffer," she would plead. "If you haven't the money in your ward or stake, let me know and somehow I will find it." She loved people. At a party given by her Board Members on her birthday a year ago, Sister Nellie Parker paid her this beautiful tribute: One of the outstanding strengths of Sister Robison's leadership is her ability to put the arms of her love around even the most timid and inexperienced women and give them confidence in themselves and create within them a zealousness for the cause. She is able to draw out their best abilities and win their love and cooperation... She is enshrined in the hearts of those women who served her from Canada to Mexico, from Hawaii to Europe. She loved the gospel. Deeply concerned as she was that no one should suffer for want of the material necessities of life, she also had that most precious of all gifts, the understanding heart, the ability to sense the spiritual needs of those who came to her discouraged, in sorrow,-in doubt, or with faith faltering. And, coupled with this rare gift of seeing, she had the gift of giving that which was needed. I 357 have seen women come to her office, crushed, despondent, and I have seen them leave with the light of hope and faith rekindled. How much this gift is needed today. If every woman in the Church could radiate spirituality as did Sister Robison, what a light we would be to the world. She loved her work in the Church. To her it was never a duty to be performed, but a glorious, joyous opportunity which she welcomed. Can you not hear her say, "Welcome the task that takes you beyond yourself?" In the early days of the Church when our Heavenly Father was "raising up a people who would serve him in righteousness" ? a people who would be faithful enough and strong enough to carry on his work in these last days, he told them the qualifications needed for such a people. How often he emphasized, "Serve with an eye single to the glory of God." No one who thinks of honor to self is wholly devoted to a cause. But when one loses self in devotion to a great cause, that is one of the forms of superlative greatness; in fact, there can be no true greatness without it. "He who loses his life shall find it." This greatest of all tributes we pay to Sister Robison. She had the greatest of all gifts? love. She truly served with an eye single to the glory of God. To her family I wish to say, speaking for the women of the Church, that we love her. Her sweet influence will live on in our hearts forever. Our prayer is that we may so live, so carry on, that again some day she will be our leader. Work Meeting Grosgrain Ribbon Handbag 1. MATERIAL REQUIRED: 9 yards grosgrain ribbon 14 inches wide, 2. CUTTING: 1/3 yard lining, sheet wadding. Suggested materials Taffeta, crepe, rayon satin. (A) Cut sixteen 9% inch lengths of ribbon. (B) Cut two 30 inch lengths of ribbon. (C) Cut remainder of ribbon into 4 equal lengths, approximately 28 inches each. 3. SEWING: Stitch 8 of the ribbons (A) together, as near the selvage as possible, (scant 1/8 inch seam). Basting is unnecessary. Stitch the remaining 8 ribbons (A) together (to make the two sides of the bag). Stitch together ribbons (B) for ends and bottom (Figure 1). Baste (B) to the two (A) stitchings just inside the selvage, allowing 1/4 inch seam at the bottom of each (A). Leave an opening 1% inches wide, 1 inch from the top of the bag for insertion of the handles (4 openings). Stitch. If (B) is too long, trim off even with top of bag (Figure 2). Turn wrong side' out and fit a piece of the lining to the bottom of the bag. Stitch along the sides, with the raw edges of lining material exposed, following seams made when sewing (A) to (B), leaving ends open. Slip in cardboard to fit (Figure 3). Measure around the top of bag (should be about 26") and depth (should be 94") and cut lining to fit (one piece, about 26' by 914'') allowing 14 inch seam at side, 114 inch seam at bottom and % inch seam at top. Stitch side seam. Baste lining to top of bag and stitch. Sheet wadding should measure the same as lining without the seam allowance. Baste in between the bag and the lining. Fold under seam allowance of lining and stitch by hand to the bottom of the bag, catching in the raw edges of the lining in the bottom. The bag should be wrong side out all through this procedure. While still so, stitch by hand through lining and sheet wadding to each inside seam of (A) and (B) % inch from top of bag and again 214 inches from the top so there will be a 2 inch space for the handles to lace through. Page 358 Tum bag nght side out. Stitch 2 pieces of (C) together close to selvages, thereby making one ribbon double thickness, (for handles). Lace through opening between sheet wadding and grosgrain completely around bag and stitch ends together. Stitch the remaining 2 pieces (C) together and lace through from the opposite side. Fasten the sewed ends of handles inside the openings at (D) and (E) (Figure 6). Figure 1 Lining Figure 4 Double thickness Figure 5 Figure 2 a Insert Inside of bag Figure 3 U Finished bag Figure 7 He WORK MEETING a MEADOW LARK Roberta Bates A meadow lark sits at my gate and sings, Melody pouring from his swollen throat, Begging for alms. What alms could I bring? A ransom of kings would not repay a note. In his black necktie and his gold-flecked coat, His vanity thrilling with each vain word, He distills the air with melodious rote, "Meadow lark, meadow lark, pretty bird!" He BIBLE FOR A-BOY Every boy should have one. And if it bears the National trademark, it will serve him well for many years to come. BIBLES AT YOUR -BOOKSTORE National 1863 SINCE Page 360 Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop Has for Your Selection Beautiful and Practical Gifts for MOTHER'S DAY GRADUATION WEDDINGS TROUSSEAUX also Exquisite infants' Wear Quilts and Shawls 21 West South Temple Salt Lake City 1 Doma DOM ODM OC DOC DOC OO Brigham Young University SUMMER QUARTER First Term: June 10?July 19 Second Term: July 22?August 23 Eighth Annual Music Festival Band and Orchestra Clinic Distinguished Visiting Teachers Outstanding Resident Faculty A Broad Offering in All Departments Lectures Concerts Recreation Write for your Summer School Catalogue Brigham Young University Provo, Utah 2 C0 GS SS SSS S00 M: U: S'I-C SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY I LOVE A LITTLE COTTAGE (O'Hara) FLAG WITHOUT A STAIN ?? ?_?? 15 BLESS THIS "HOUSE - ee |) GOD IS LOVE (Shelley) _ 4 ALICE BLUE GOWN (Tierney) =. PEACE I LEAVE WITH Vea (Roberts)  0 Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines. Records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 57 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 44 East South Temple Have ready at hand a complete guide to thousands of passages in the Doctrine and Covenants? An Invaluable Aid to Study, Speaking and Writing CONCORDANCE TO THE DOCTRINE and COVENANTS COMPILED BY JOHN V. BLUTH of the Church Historian's Office 500 pages, alphabetically arranged for easy, quick reference $3" DESERET BOOK COMPANY Book Center of the Intermountain West P, O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2? Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 "The beginning of a Beneficial Income" The surest way to enjoy financial independence when you grow old is to invest in life insurance while you are young. HOME OFFICE BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING SALT LAKE City 1, UTAH GEORGE ALBERT SMITH, PRESIDENT RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
