
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford President
Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor
Gertrude R. Garff Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Edith S. Elliott
Leone G. Layton
Leone O. Jacobs
Mary G. Judd
Priscilla L. Evans
Blanche B. Stoddard
Velma N. Simonsen
Luella N. Adams
Florence J. Madsen
Evon W. Peterson
Isabel B. Callister
Anna B. Hart
Ann P. Nibley

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Editorial Secretary Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 33 NOVEMBER 1946 No. 11

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
Relief Society Women Received at the White House President Belle S. Spafford 723
Inter-Continental Conference of the National Council of Women Priscilla L. Evans 729
A Visit to Church Shrines Edith S. Elliott 736
Pioneer Stories and Incidents: On the River Platte President Amy Brown Lyman 747
"What Shall I Do Now, Mother?" Elizabeth Williamson 754

FICTION
The Luxury of Giving Norma Wrathall 742
As You Were Martha Robeson Wright 757
Faith Is a Heritage Chapter 8 Christie Lund Coles 762

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 750
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 751
Editorial: "She Looketh Well to the Ways of Her Household" Marianne C. Sharp 752
Notes From the Field General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 766

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology: More Auxiliary Organizations of the Church Started Elder H. Wayne Driggs 773
Visiting Teachers' Messages: Industry President Amy Brown Lyman 776
Work Meeting Sewing: Pinning, Basting, Pressing, Edges and Seam Finishings Work Meeting Committee 777
Literature: Westward March of America Elder Howard R. Driggs 778
Optional Lessons in Lieu of Literature: Baptism Elder T. Edgar Lyon 783
Social Science: Observing a Principle of Prosperity Social Science Committee 786

POETRY
Where Dreams Were Made Frontispiece Anna Prince Redd 721
Words Dorothy J. Roberts 728
Keys Clarence Edwin Flynn 735
Night Bernice Hacking Balle 741
Autumn Wind Katherine Fernelius Larsen 749
The Jungle Tree Elsie F. Parton 749
Friendly Town Bertha A. Kleinman 753
Consolation Zara Sabin 761
Hill-Top House Beatrice K. Ekman 790
Old Leaves

The Cover: "The Joseph Smith Farm, Palmyra, New York" Courtesy, The Deseret News

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 77,500

VOL. 33, NO. 11 NOVEMBER 1946  Photograph by Fellowcrafts Studio Relief Society Women Received at the White House President Belle S. Spafford, N 1880, during a visit of President Rutherford B. Hayes and Mrs. Hayes to Salt Lake City, Mrs. Hayes was presented with a "silk lace fichu, as a souvenir of her visit to the City of the Saints." The silk had been raised by Mrs. Schneiter of that city, and the article manufactured by Mrs. Ursenbach. On May 2, 1946, history repeated itself in that again a First Lady of this great nation was presented with a gift of handwork from Relief Society women. This time the gift was taken to Washington by delegates of the Society and presented to Bess Truman (Mrs. Harry S. Truman), in the elegantly furnished Red Room of the White House. The idea that Relief Society women should visit the White House and present Mrs. Truman with a gift representative of the handwork of Latter-day Saint women, and explain to her the work of Relief Society, originated with President George Albert Smith. Early in the month of December 1945, President Smith called Sister Spafford into his office and suggested that such a trip be made. Due to the fact that Christmas was near, and that Relief Society was. Unusually busy with the European relief program, and that the weather was inclement, the trip was delayed until the spring. Through the courtesy of the Honorable Herbert B. Maw, Governor of Utah, arrangements were made with the White House to have Mrs. Truman receive the Relief Society delegates on Thursday, May 2, 1946, at eleven A. M. An invitation was extended by President Smith and the Relief Society General Board to Mrs. Florence B. Maw, wife of Governor Maw, to accompany President Belle S. Spafford, Sister Edith S. Elliott, and Sister Priscilla L. Evans, members of the General Board, to Washington on this important and auspicious occasion. The group left Salt Lake City on the morning of April 28. That this was a history-making event in the life of Relief Society was evidenced by the group who gathered at the station to bid the sisters bon voyage. President George Albert Smith honored the occasion by his presence, and, in addition, there were present Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering, and several other members of the General Board, together with many friends and family members of those who were leaving on this important and unusual mission. It was a beautiful spring - morning, and the hearts of all were glad for the opportunity that had come to Relief Society to acquaint so distinguished a person as Mrs. Truman with the work of this great Society. It was an exciting moment for all as the train pulled out of the Page 723 station and good-byes were waved. Prior to leaving, an exquisite crocheted, white lace tablecloth had been selected from the many beautiful handmade articles at the Mormon Handicraft Shop to be presented to Mrs. Truman. The cloth measured about sixty-three by eightyafour inches before it was blocked, and was the work of Sister Addie E. Hardy, wife of the late Elder Rufus K. Hardy of the First Council of the Seventy. The cloth was made while Sister Hardy remained at home during the time Elder Hardy was serving as a missionary in the South Sea Isles. The cloth, made from very fine thread, required two years to complete. Although it appeared to be made of medallions crocheted together, it was, in reality, made all in one piece a dainty, exquisite piece of handwork, one of the finest pieces of its kind ever to come into the Handicraft Shop. Through the efforts of Mrs. Lucile B. Wolf, manager of the Mormon Handicraft Shop, a special box and wrappings were provided, as well as a hand-painted gift card A GIFT FOR THE FIRST LADY President Spafford admires the crocheted lace tablecloth to be presented to Bess W. Truman, wife of President Harry S. Truman. Left to right: Priscilla L. Evans, Edith S. Elliott, and President Spafford, members of the General Board; and Florence B. Maw, wife of Hon. Herbert B. Maw, Governor of Utah. This photograph was taken in the Board room in the Bishop's Building. The painting of former President Amy Brown Lyman may be seen in the background 724 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1946 GREETINGS FROM THE RELIEF SOCIETY showing the sego lily, the Utah state flower. The card was the handwork of Rhea C. Dobson. On the card, in the handwriting of President Spafford, were inscribed these words: Dear Mrs. Truman,; The Relief Society women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are honored to present to you, the First Lady of our great Nation, as an expression of our esteem, this lace tablecloth characteristic of the handwork of Latter-day Saint women. We hope you will enjoy using it, and that it will serve to remind you that rare handwork skills are being perpetuated by our Society. Sincerely, Belle S. Spafford President ? ENCLOSED with the tablecloth in the gift package, which was tied with wide, gold and blue (Relief Society colors) ribbon, was a blue, leather-bound copy of A Centenary of Relief Society, with the name "Bess Truman" on the front cover in gold lettering. A note from Sister Hardy, telling about her work in making the tablecloth, was also enclosed. The delegates carried the carefully wrapped gift with them. The group reached? Washington late Monday evening, April 29, giving them the opportunity of spending two days with friends and Relief Society women prior to the White House visit. On Thursday morning, May 2, preliminary to going to the White House, the General Board representatives were joined at the Mayflower Hotel, where they were staying, by the following women who had previously been invited by the General Board to accompany the women from Salt Lake to the White House to make the presentation: Mrs. Abe Murdock (Mary Violet Yardley), wife of Senator Murdock Mrs. J. Will Robinson (Birda Billings), wife of Representative Robinson Mrs. Herbert B. Maw (Florence Buehler), wife of the Governor of Utah Mrs. W. H., King (Vera B. Sjodahl), wife of former Senator King Miss Ethel Evans, fiancee of Senator Elbert D. Thomas Mrs. E. B. Brossard (Laura P. Cowley), wife of President Brossard of Washington Stake Mrs. Emest L. Wilkinson (Alice Ludlow) wife of the first counselor, Washington Stake Mrs. J. W. Marriott (Alice Sheets), wife of the second counselor, Washington Stake Mrs. R. A. Gwynn (Gwendolyn Thomas), President, Washington Stake Relief Society. Mrs. Lynn B. Lundberg (Elese Barlow), First Counselor, Washington Stake Relief Society Mrs. W. T. Thurman (Zettella Wheeler), Second Counselor, Washington Stake Relief Society Mrs. Walter K. Granger (Hazel Dalley), wife of Congressman Granger, had also been invited, but due to absence from the city, was not present. RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN RECEIVED AT THE WHITE HOUSE 725 GREETING CARD WHICH WAS PRESENTED TO MRS. TRUMAN Mrs. Gus P. Backman (Nance Davis) joined the group at the White House. Leaving the hotel, the group drove to the White House. Through Governor Maw, tickets, each one inscribed with a particular woman's name, had been issued. The card issued to President Spafford read: Mrs. Belle S. Spafford Will please present this ticket at the northwest gate THE WHITE HOUSE May 2, 1946 11 o'clock a. M. Not Transferable These tickets admitted the party to the grounds and also into the White House, where they were taken up by the doorman. Upon entering the White House, an attendant ushered the women into the gorgeous Red Room, so named because of the elegant red satin tapestry wall coverings, matching draperies, and the deep red tones in the floor coving and furnishings. It was an exciting, tense, serious moment for the women, as they awaited the arrival of Mrs. Truman. It is not a common experience for anyone to be received by the First Lady of our Land, and, for this group, 726 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1946 serving as Relief Society representatives, it was a first time. Al] keenly sensed, at that moment, their responsibility toward Relief Society. On the mantel in the Red Room was a rare, old clock that had been Presented to the White House by Thomas Jefferson. Just as it chimed the hour of eleven, an attendant announced Mrs. Truman. As she entered the room, everyone arose. She wore a neat black dress with street length skirt, the blouse having a white lace front, Mrs. Maw stepped forward, introduced herself, said a few words of greeting, and then introduced the First Lady to each of the women in turn. Utah women were very proud, that moment, of Utah's First Lady. Poised, friendly, attractive, she well represented our own beloved State. Mrs. Truman cordially shook hands with Courtesy, Acme Pictures, Inc. FIRST LADY RECEIVES RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS each one, exchanged a few words of greeting, then bade everyone to be seated. A few moments of informal conversation followed. At an opportune moment during the conversation, President Spafford, indicating that she had brought from Relief Society women, as a token of esteem, a gift for Mrs. Truman, arose and made the presentation. As she did so, she briefly explained the work of this international Society of Latter-day Saint women. Mrs. Truman graciously accepted the gift, asking if she might open it ~a request to which President Spafford readily assented, since most of the group had not Previously seen the tablecloth. Mrs. Truman carefully undid the wrapping. Then, lifting the cloth from the box, and draping it artistically over her extended arm, Gwendolyn T. Gwynn; Zettella W. Thurman; Priscilla L. Evans; Else B. Lundberg; Edith S. Elliott; Nance D. Backman; President Belle S. "Spafford:. Maw; Birda B. Robinson; Mary Y. Murdock; Alice L. Wilkinson; Vera S, King; Laura C. Brossard. RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN RECEIVED AT THE WHITE HOUSE 727 claimed with sincere admiration: "This is beautiful! And this is for me!" Then, after a moment's pause, as if by way of explanation, she added: "I mean, this is something I can take with me when I leave here and return to my own home! Thank you." This "thank you" was later followed by the following letter from Mrs. Truman: THE WHITE HOUSE WASHINGTON May 3, 1946 My dear Mrs. Spafford: The beautiful tablecloth which the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints presented to me will always be a treasured souvenir. Will you express my appreciation to the members of your group for this generous gift and for the message which accompanied it, as well as for the book containing the interesting record of the achievements of your Relief Society since it was founded. Sincerely, (Signed) Bess W. Truman Thus, Mrs. Bess Truman, a woman whose home is in Independence, Missouri, a name significant to Latter-day Saints everywhere, serving this nation as its First Lady, received a gift of handwork characteristic of the handwork of thousands of women who are members of Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints women who have for more than one hundred years been active in preserving and encouraging rare handwork skills, in addition to their many other activities. Mrs. Truman commented upon the book A Centenary of Relief Society, asking many questions regarding our history and our work, affording splendid opportunity for those present to acquaint her with Relief Society and the great purposes of this organization. Following the interview, the group, including Mrs. Truman, went to the front portico of the White House, where the accompanying photograph was taken. Upon re-entering the White House, Mrs. Truman asked if the delegates would care to be shown some of the rooms. This courtesy was accepted, and, accompanied by an attendant, the group enjoyed an interesting hour. Mrs. Truman will ever remain in the minds of those present as a woman of refinement and charm. Her warm, friendly graciousness made the occasion a delightful one, long to be remembered. Good should grow out of this White House visit because, through it, one who mingles with those in high positions of state met typical Relief Society women and heard their wonderful story. Out of this should grow understanding, and the fruits of understanding are good. WORDS Dorothy J. Roberts There are words that form the vestibule Lays the hand of healing, placid, cool, Upon the blind of spirit that they see. 728 ? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1946 Where multitudes assemble, and where he Inter-Continental Conference of the National Council of Women Priscilla L. Evans Member, Relief Society General Board Corresponding Secretary, National Council of Women Inter-Continental Conference of the National Council of Women of the United States and of the National Council of Women of Canada was held Mon- - day, Tuesday, and Wednesday, May 6, 7, and 8, 1946, at the Hotel Waldorf-Astoria in New York City. President Belle S. Spafford and two members of the General Board of Relief Society, Edith S. Elliott and Priscilla L. Evans, were official delegates representing the Relief Society ' at the Conference. Eighteen members of the Relief Society residing in New York Stake,* and one member residing in Washington Stake' attended one or more sessions of the Conference, some as accredited delegates and others as interested observers. This is believed to be the largest representation of Relief Society at any session of a conference of the National Council. The National Council of Women is a voluntary association of self-governing women's organizations through which is made possible an interchange of ideas, experience, and factual information on a nationwide scale. The Council was founded at a meeting held in Washington, D. C., during the year 1888. The first president of the Council was Frances E. Willard; the first vice-president, Susan B. Anthony. Among the pioneers who helped to form the Council were May Wright Sewall and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. At this historic first meeting, the Relief Society was represented by Emily S. Richards. Three years later, in 1891, at the first triennial meeting of the Council, on the advice of President Wilford Woodtuff, Relief Society became a charter member of the National Council of Women of the United States, and still continues (1946) as a member, and, through membership in_ the National Council, enjoys official contact with the International Council of Women. The preamble of the constitution. *Mrs. Grace Clawson Woolley, President New York Stake Relief Society; Mrs. Carl J. Christensen (Alberta Huish); Mrs. Harvey Fletcher (Lorena Chipman); Mrs. Harlin J. Dittmore (Barbara Wallace); Mrs. Guy B. Stephenson (Margaret DeWitt): Mrs. Wm. L. Woolf (Flora Tanner); Mrs. Leslie H. Wadsworth (Daisy Simmons); Mrs. David D. Paine (Lyle Nelson); Mrs. Owen S. Cullimore (Elsie Sundberg); Mrs. Rulon S. Hales (Vera Holbrook); Mrs. Kenneth G. Handley (Ethel Lowry); Mrs. Hugh M. Lyman (Fern Walker); Mrs. Karl G. Macdonald (Louisa Rogers); Mrs. Cyril D. Pearson (Helen Smart); Mrs. H. H. Haglund (Eva Forsberg); Mrs. Stanley McAllister (Donnetta Kesler); Mrs. C. B. Stewart (Kate Romney); Mrs. Edward Smith (Melba Brian). Mrs. Edgar B. Brossard (Laura Cowley). 350 Page 729 730 which was adopted at the organization meeting, remains the basis of the Council's program today: We, women of the United States, sincerely believing that the best good of our homes and nation will be advanced by our own greater unity of thought, sympathy and purpose, and that an organized movement will best conserve the highest good of the family and State, do hereby band ourselves together in a confederation of workers committed to the overthrow of all forms of ignorance and injustice, and to the application of the Golden Rule in society, custom and law. The National Council does not itself sponsor activities of a controversial nature, but it does supply data to its members regarding the activities of other members. No member can, in any case, be committed to any cause or project by Council action except by its own vote. Although the Council continued to function during World War II, no national conventions were held, and, upon termination of the war, it was decided to call an Inter-Continental Conference. Mrs. Edgar D. Hardy, President of the National Council of Women of Canada, and Mrs. Harold V. Milligan, President of the National Council of Women of the United States, shared the responsibilities of the Conference and alternated in presiding at the various sessions. The theme of the conference was "Women and The New World: The Practice of Peace." At the opening session, the invocation was pronounced by Mrs. Ella A. Boole, President, World Women's Christian Temperance Union. It was a kindly and gracious act to recognize Mrs. Boole in this way. She is very aged, indeed, nearing the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1946 century mark, but alert and still courageous. She has, all her life, worked for the cause of temperance and has valiantly and militantly fought against what she characteristically terms "the demon rum." In conversation with the writer, Mrs. Boole recalled her affection for the Mormon women who early represented the Relief Society in the Council, speaking particularly of Emmeline B. Wells and Emily S. Richards. Mrs. Boole has always recognized the Church and: its authorities as strong allies in her temperance work and expressed pleasure in meeting Sister Edith Smith Elliott, a daughter of President George Albert Smith, whom she said she valued as an outstand-. Ing advocate of the cause so dear to her heart. The prepared addresses on each program during the three-day conference were presented in the form of panels, followed by discussion from the floor. The panel groups made arresting and colorful pictures. At one of the sessions, the occupants of the places at the long table across the platform were women from many countries. Mrs. Hardy, who was presiding, "called the roll of the continents," and the following responded: North America Senator Cairine Wilson of Canada South America Senorita Minerva Bernardino. Asia Madame P. H. Chang Australia Miss Doreen Berry Europe Madame Jan Papanek Africa Miss Eugenia Holmes McArthur To picture just one: Responding when Africa was called, was Miss Eugenia Holmes of Liberia, a pretty, INTER-CONTINENTAL CONFERENCE slight figure, faultlessly dressed in a becoming frock of cream-colored linen, which accentuated her very dark skin and eyes. Her coal-black hair was dressed high. She wore no hat, but instead had pinned a dark red rose in her hair. In responding to the panel subject, "The Challenges To The Peace Of The World," she spoke, in a well modulated voice, a very correct English. Her preparation was thoughtful and intelligent. On a succeeding panel, Miss Tove Elias-Nielsen, journalist of Copenhagen, Denmark, read her short message in halting, measured phrases. She prefaced the reading with the remark, "I have never before tried to speak to an audience in English. I have stayed up all night practicing this for you." These incidents will illustrate the color, and, in some cases, the moving drama of the occasion. NE of the dramatic moments of the conference was at the opening of the first luncheon session. Mrs. Milligan, President of the National Council of the United States, was presiding. It is the custom in the gatherings of the Council, whenever food is served, to ask a blessing upon the food. Mrs. Milligan requested Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune to ask such a blessing. Dr. Bethune is the founder-president of the National Council of Negro Women and has been an active participant in Council affairs for many years. She stepped upon the platform, with her great spiritual strength shining in her black eyes, and in a beautiful, low voice, said, quietly, "Will you please repeat the prayer after me." And her white sisters bowed their 731 heads and repeated, phrase by phrase: "God bless this food to our bodies; God bless our bodies to service; God bless our service to all mankind. Amen." 'There were few dry eyes as Dr. Bethune stepped down and resumed her seat. The keynote address was delivered by Dr. Lena Madesin Phillips. She spoke to the subject, "Peace In The New World." Dr. Phillips is a lawyer by profession, is a former president of the Council, and is, at present, one of the vice-presidents of the International Council. Only a few excerpts from Dr. Phillips' address can be given in this article, but they will serve to give you the tempo of the entire conference. Running through all the addresses was an urgent plea for action not only to recognize the need to work for peace, but, as was reiterated time and again, "to do something about it." Dr. Phillips said: War in my judgment has two great taproots one of them is the economic root which denies to people food and security and jobs... I have told many audiences in this country that human beings will not starve, even for the Constitution of the United States. If you think that the economic situation does not influence people in their form of government, then you do not know the misery which is over the earth today. The second taproot is that which denies humanity those human rights of which we often talk. Freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom from being discriminated against because of color or race or religion or sex?these things they desire. We can never have abiding peace until we pay more attention to these things. Two things I would leave with you. One is that we are living in a strange in-between time, between two worlds, the old world and the new. We have not come into the new world yet... I am not sure 732 that we are going to come into it very quickly... Second, I beg of you to go from here with a crusading zeal to try to get action, action among people you know, action from yourself about problems in our own country, about our relationship to the rest of the world. There is not much time... I think within the period of the next five or ten years we will see either great disaster or we will see the world come to a new realization of what really is the trouble with us... I believe it is something in the human heart and soul... It is selfishness, it is an apathy it is of course ignorance, but it is also the fact that we are not quite willing to pay the full price of peace.... God will not do for us what we are unwilling to do for ourselves, and so if we must have things as they were, then we won't have peace. It is only as we come to recognize the Christian ethics that we will find the way to peace. You are not only your brother's keeper, you are your brother's brother." Dr. Renee Girod of Geneva, Switzerland, was the guest of honor. Dr. Girod is one of the vice-presidents of the International Council of Women and acted as president during the war years when the president, Baroness Boel of Brussels, Belgium, had, as she herself expressed it, "a forced silence imposed upon her." Dr. Girod came by clipper plane from Geneva, and arrived in New York a few days prior to the conference. She is an interesting and impressive person. She addressed the delegates several times during the sessions of the conference, and each time the audience felt lifted up and strengthened. Her first message was brief, and was as follows: Dear Sisters: I think I may call you "sisters" because I feel very much at home RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1946 in your country although I have been here three days only. I have come, as you have been told, from a very far away and very small country from Switzerland. But Switzerland, is the oldest democracy in the world and therefore I call you "'sisters" because all women in all the countries are sisters. If we have not felt it until now, we must feel it now very strongly because there is a terrific job lying ahead that is awaiting us. I am not going to speak on my own behalf now. I am just going to speak on behalf of Baroness Boel. She has given me a message for you, but this message is written in French so I shall read it in French first, and in case you don't understand it, I will do my best to translate it. It is rather difficult to translate Baroness Boel's French because it is rather peculiar. It is very good French but the better a language is the more difficult it is to translate. (Dr. Girod read the message in French and then translated it): It is with a feeling of pride for the large international movement that I represent that I asked Dr. Girod who, during those five years of forced silence imposed upon me, has assumed the charge of the presidency of our organization, to bring you my cordial greetings. I sincerely regret that circumstances outside my will have prevented my being with you today, but this is my message to all those who are meeting in this important conference of the Western Hemisphere. Whether members or not of the International Council of Women, I say' more than ever that the world needs the collaboration of women for the organization of a world with better justice. Women can and must bring their collaboration. More than ever does the world need the help of large women's organizations, those who like ours have for dozens of years worked for the emancipation of women and for the awakening of women's collective conscience, those created for the fine and special aims, those who are recently bor or who will be created tomorrow to respond to new needs. It is INTER-CONTINENTAL CONFERENCE through these organizations that woman makes her civic, political and international education. As citizens of her nation, her place is marked today beside the men, her brothers, men being grouped like she is in different parties which they have themselves formed. She has to accomplish her task with the man beside her. As citizen of the world, she has not yet been able to give the measure of her possibilities, she has not yet realized the young forces that are in her. As mother, she creates life. More than men, she has the duty to defend this life which she has given and of which she is the guardian, to defend not through a verbal pacifism which has given us, alas, many deceptions ?to defend not in turning her back to the danger when it comes. The women of the whole world have proved in the course of these last years what they are able to do to defend the liberties and principles that for them, as for their men companions, are more valuable than life. Women must defend those principles by bringing a loyal contribution to those who strive to construct a new international order, by suppressing war in the settlement of conflicts. The notion that none can do justice but oneself must pass from the individual to the nation. Then no state shall have the night to resort to force to settle a dispute. That is what all the women of the world want today, whatever be the spot of the planet on which they live. They must hold out for this high and strong today, strong in courage and enthusiasm. The large world associations can help them. Let us go forward, sisters, for this new crusade for the respect of human rights in a free world where, with the help of God, more justice and more love shall reign.. The end to be attained is worth all the efforts that have been made. OPPORTUNITIES were given during the Conference to present the work of the Relief Society to the delegates. At the executive 733 session on the last day of the Conference, President Spafford presented an exhaustive and well-considered report of the activities of the association, stressing especially the accomplishments of the war years. It was generally conceded by the delegates that no member-organization reported a more comprehensive program and certainly none could match the achievements of the Relief Society in aid to our European members through the Welfare Program. The facts were well and accurately stated, and the Relief Society representatives felt a justifiable pride both in the content of the report*and in its presentation by President Spafford. Sister Evans was called from the floor to the platform by Mrs. Milligan, President of the Council, who was presiding at the Wednesday morning general session, and, after a very gracious introduction, was presented to the audience as "a Mormon woman" and requested by Mrs. Milligan to "tell them something about the Mormon women and their work." Sister Evans, though taken entirely by surprise, was glad of the opportunity to give the delegates a word picture of the Relief Society, its beginnings and its purposes, its present strength, and its far-flung unit organizations. She spoke of the influence upon the lives of the Mormon women of the opportunity for leadership inherent in Relief Society organizations, and traced this influence into community, state, and national activities educational, cultural, political, and Church. On Monday evening, the Board of Directors of the Council met in executive session at the Cosmopolitan Club. This was an opportunity 734 to meet in an intimate, social atmosphere all the presidents of the member-organizations and the officers of the Council. Supper was served and the Relief Society delegates were assigned places at the head table, along with Mrs. Ambrose N. Diehl, the incoming president; Mrs. Harold V. Milligan, the outgoing president; Mrs. William Barclay Parsons, Jr., chairman of the Conference; and Mrs. Luella S. Laudin, chairman of the Committee on Human Relations of the Council. - Here again, great interest was shown in the Relief Society, especially in the international scope of its work. On the final day of the Conference, officers were elected to serve for the next biennium. Mrs. Ambrose N. Diehl was elected president, succeeding Mrs. Harold V. Milligan. Mrs. Frank Evans (Priscilla L. Evans) was re-elected corresponding secretary, and was appointed to membership on the executive committee of the Council. She has held these offices in the Council since 1938. As a fitting climax to the Conference, there was presented to the delegates, "A Manifesto." It was read to the conference by the well-known actress, Miss Jane Cowl. Her rendition was artistic and stirring. Only a few excerpts can be given here: A WOMAN'S MANIFESTO FOR ZERO HOUR This is the Woman's Hour... It comes at a fateful time when all humanity lies huddled in fear at the brink of a bottomless abyss. The curtain has fallen on a hideous epoch during which society, directed by only half the human family has recorded its unhappy history in the blood of countless millions and the tears of women who have borne the brunt of war, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1946 in every century. The testimony of man's failure to find the road to peace is there for all to read; it says, unmistakably, that having failed to solve the problems of wiping out wars, men have been driven inevitably to use instead ingenuity to increase their terror and ferocity. Viewing the cold facts from the broad perspective of history, it becomes obvious that human lust for power, selfishness, greed and the principle of "'might makes right" have prevailed as the dynamic of successive generations. But today, all of us, we members of the human family, wherever we may live on the earth's surface women and men, savage and civilized, colored and white, atheist and disciple of religion share the common threat of complete destruction in a man-made inferno. And at long last, women, liberated the world around, may speak out and give full expression to their natural role of peacemaker and protector; they may raise their voices in behalf of law and order and security against the machinations which lead to war.... Victor Hugo once wrote: "No army can withstand the strength of an idea whose time has come." 'The Idea is the strong chain of womanhood around the world which can be forged through friendship and mutual support to insure a lasting peace; and the Time is Now! To this end, the National Council of Women of the U. S., Inc., proposes the following as a rule of conduct every woman, everywhere, may adopt: I shall do all that lies in my power to fulfill the responsibilities of good citizenship in a world community: (1) by urging the active participation of qualified women in local, state, national and international government; (2) by using my ballot, always, for the benefit of the greatest number; (3) by protesting immediately to my government against any encroachment upon the 'human rights and fundamental freedoms of my global neighbors, anywhere; (4) by demonstrating in my home and my community, my firm belief in the precept of human brotherhood as the foundation of a lasting world peace. INTER-CONTINENTAL CONFERENCE This is the program I gladly adopt as the minimum of my obligation to society; but I shall seek, constantly, other ways of strengthening the hands of men and women of good will everywhere for the betterment of the human race so help me God. This Manifesto was unanimously by the assembled delegates, Throughout the Conference, there was a striking similarity in the thinking of the speakers. From the far corners of the globe came almost identical thoughts, with deviations only in considerations of customs and ancient traditions which must be changed slowly. Each speaker emphasized her conviction that we adopted 735 must think in terms of people, not nations, for it is people who are being deprived of human rights, and people whose wants can be satisfied only through the co-operation of other people. Again and again were reiterated the words: freedom, understanding, justice, integrity, cooperation and respect for the dignity of the individual. And always there came out of the heart of the speaker a spiritual note. Indeed, the pleas of all those participating on the program might be summarized in the words of the Savior: "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets" (Mt. 7:12). KEYS Clarence Edwin Flynn It is a shame upon us That there should be a day When we must seek protection By locking things away. If but the race were honest, One could leave any store By day or night, with never A lock upon the door. He could lie down to slumber Unhindered till the dawn, Knowing no hand would harm him, Or anything be gone. Perhaps we shall be neighbors Again in years to be, So honest that no coffer Or house will need a key. A Visit to Church Shrines Edith S. Elliott Member, Relief Society General Board WHEN planning spring Relief W Society conventions for the eastern stakes, and some of the missions at the request of President George Albert Smith, Sister Spafford and I were aware that our journeyings would pass near some of the Church shrines. With this in mind, we allowed time for a visit to the Prophet Joseph Smith's birthplace at Sharon, Vermont; to Palmyra, New York, where he spent his youth and received his first vision; and to Nauvoo, Illinois, where he spent his last days. Our first tip to a Church shrine began at Cambridge, Massachusetts, early one May morning in President Reeder's comfortable car. The "we" consisted of President William S. Reeder of the New England Mission, his capable and charming wife, Bertha Stone Reeder, President Belle S. Spafford of the Relief Society, my brother George Albert Smith, Jr., professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, and myself all friends of long standing. We looked forward to the good visit that the auto trip promised, as our route led from Massachusetts into New Hampshire. New England in the spring is like the beauty of a poem. No wonder so much art, literature, and culture have come from this area! The rivers and lakes, and even the small ponds, had an air of renewed life. The greenery of budding spring carpeted the hills. The trees and shrubs along Page 736 the highway rivaled the patterns of any lace maker. The quaint, elongated farmhouses were intriguing. Added to the houses themselves, or shall I say "hitched together," were the sheds, barns, and other buildings necessary to farm life, so connected that in the long winters, when the snow is deep, the farmer can attend to his chores without having to go outside into the cold. I must mention the woodpiles seen beside each house, as wood is used for both heating and cooking. The neat piles were huge! If wishes were horses, I would now have one of those woodpiles stacked in my own yard to feed my fireplace this winter. Through this lovely, picturesque setting, we followed the road into Vermont. We passed through the little town of South Royalton, then on to the spot revered by all Latter-day Saints the birthplace of our Prophet. I cannot think of a more peaceful or beautiful place for a prophet to be born. From the top of the everlasting hills, covered with pines and maples, to the lush grasses in the valleys, calmness and serenity abounded. It was no effort to imagine what the birthplace might have been like a humble farmhouse, containing love, honor, intelligence, and industry. I like to think that our Heavenly Father chose this secluded spot, far from the hustle and bustle of city life, as a place where a little boy could live close to nature and be A VISIT TO CHURCH SHRINES schooled in the simple and basic Phases of life. The granite shaft raised to commemorate the birth Place is dignified and fitting. It was too early in the season for the flowers to be in bloom, but the lawns were green; and we spread a blanket down and ate a delicious picnic lunch Prepared by Sister Reeder. Returning to Cambridge that night, we all felt the glow of satisfaction that comes from visiting hallowed ground. After a wonderfully pleasant and satisfying series of conventions held in. Eastern Canada, which was Our next stopping place, President Spafford and I left President and Sister Ursenbach in Toronto. Crossing the border into the United States at Buffalo, New York, we boarded a train for Rochester, very much relieved to have missed the railroad strike by one hour. In Rochester, we were met by Brother C. Orval Stott, who has charge of the Bureau of Information at the foot of Hill Cumorah. He showed us some of the interesting places in Rochester, including the beautiful homes along East Avenue and a remarkable display of lilacs in bloom in one of the city parks. I didn't know there were so many varieties of lilacs and all of them beautiful! The air was filled with their glorious perfume. Those plumed blossoms were in shades of pure white, creamy yellow, pink, lavender, purple, and dubonnet red. What wonders God hath wrought! In historic Palmyra, we passed "Four Comers," where there is a church on each corner, and on the outskirts of the town we saw the 737 little cobble-rock building in which Oliver Cowdery taught school. Each cobble in this unique building is about the size of a large hen's egg. Finally, we came in view of the Hill Cumorah, from which the Prophet obtained the plates of gold which were given to him by the Angel Moroni. The wonderful truths translated from those records teach the gospel of Jesus Christ and his plan of salvation. The records also tell the history of the ancient inhabitants of the Western Hemisphere. The hill has been attractively landscaped. On the summit, is an inspiring statue of the Angel Moroni, created by the sculptor Torleif S. Knaphus. When flooded with light at night, the effect is most etherial. At the base of the hill, is a reproduction of a Mayan house, surround. Ed by lawn and trees, flowers and shrubs. This building is the Bureau of Information, where tourists arc greeted and given an account of the restoration of the gospel. In this building, also, are the living quarters of the family in charge of this shrine. IT have already mentioned Brother Stott as the capable and genial gentleman responsible for the care of this area, and must also give due regard to his charming and gracious wife, Flora Bushnell Stott. She greeted us with a welcoming smile and won our hearts immediately. Our stay in her home Was friendly and restful just what we needed. In the evening, after a wonderful chicken dinner, about eight of the Relief Society women living on nearby farms came in for a social gathering and to informally discuss Relief Society work. We enjoyed the fine, wholesome spirit of these sisters, their good humor, and interesting conversation. The next morning, Brother Stott took us on a tour of the surrounding country. First, we visited the Joseph Smith farmhouse. Just to step on the same floor boards that the Prophet stepped on, was a thrill. The house is a typical upstate New York farmhouse now occupied by Brother Owen T. Howard and his wife, Rachel Ellis Howard, who operate the farm. From this historic old home, we went to the Sacred Grove. We followed a grassy path through the trees to a clearing. Literally, "radiant beamed the sun above... Bees were humming, sweet birds singing." UR emotions were stirred at being on such sacred ground. Here our Heavenly Father, accompanied by his Son, visited a fourteen-year-old lad who had asked him, in boyish simplicity, the way of truth. How grateful I am that that boy accepted and carried out God's instructions! I often think of the unwavering faith of young Joseph Smith, which gave him courage to meet all obstacles in order that the gospel of Jesus Christ might be restored in its entirety to the earth. Determined as Satan was to destroy him and his message, the Lord protected him until his mission was completed. I hope that nothing will ever disturb the calm beauty of that grove. Our next stop was at the Peter Whitmer farm, where, on April 6, 1830, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, with six members. Brother William L. Powell and his family, who live at the farm, made us welcome. While we were enjoying "the various points of interest, President Antoine R. Ivins of the First Council of Seventy, his lovely wife, Vilate R. Ivins, and President Roy W. Doxey of the Eastern States Mission, arrived. We all enjoyed a delicious turkey dinner with the Powells. We also visited briefly with Owen B. And Elizabeth Smith Anderson at the historic Sampson farm, and with Otho and Verna Fitzgerald Roundy at the Cumorah farm. We returned to the Hill Cumorah by way of Lake Canandaigua and Lake Seneca, hoping to get word that the trains would run, so that we could go on and fill our Chicago convention appointment. But, alas, the strike continued! Brother and Sister Stott seemed to be happy that we could not move on, and they cared for us in the same friendly manner as before. With heavy hearts, we were forced to cancel the Chicago Stake Relief Society convention. However, there is merit in the old saying it is "an ill wind that bloweth no man to good," for our delay enabled us to participate on Saturday, May 25, in the first day of the annual Eastern States missionary conference and pilgrimage to the sacred and historic spots around Palmyra. The day's program began with a "sunrise service" held around the Angel Moroni statue on Hill Cumorah. It was an inspiration to join with the elders and lady missionaries in song and prayer. After this, a testimony meeting followed in the Bureau reception room. The presiding officer was President Ivins, with Mission President Doxey conducting. Wonderful testimonies were 738 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1946 A VISIT TO CHURCH SHRINES given, and all those in attendance felt richly rewarded. The afternoon session was held in the clearing in the Sacred Grove. What a privilege it was to attend a religious service there! Those participating gave interesting and impressive talks, and the familiar hymns sounded even sweeter than usual in the lovely grove. At the close of the meeting in the Sacred Grove, we went to the Martin Harris farm where Brother Harty Crider and his wife, Martha Jane Chase Crider, fed us bountifully. It was then that we learned that the railroad strike was over, so Sister Spafford and I tried to figure out a way to get to Chicago by noon the next day, in order that we might make our train connections and complete our trip on our original schedule. Our train tickets were, at that time, twenty-four hours overdue because of the strike, so Brother and Sister Stott took us to Rochester 739 airport, where we were assured plane transportation to Chicago at midnight. Finally, after further delay due to weather conditions, we arrived, weary and cold, in Chicago at about seven in the morning. We drove straight to our hotel, where we thawed ourselves out in warm baths and then slept until time for our noon train to Colchester, Illinois. In Colchester, we were met by a grandniece and grandnephew of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Mabel Hendel Boyd and Ralph Millikin. Mrs. Boyd is a granddaughter of Catherine Smith Salisbury, a sister of the Prophet Joseph Smith; Mr. Millikin is a grandson of Lucy Smith Millikin, another of the Prophet's sisters. We were taken to the Ralph Millikin home, where we received the friendly greeting of Ralph's lovely wife, and met dear Aunt Clara Salisbury Hendel. She is one of the nearest living relatives of the Prophet, THE OLD HOMESTEAD FIRST HOME OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH NAUVOO, ILLINOIS being the daughter of his sister Catherine. The Millikin home is charming and surrounded by a beautiful and well-cared-for garden. Our royal entertainment there will never be forgotten. After breakfast on' Monday morning, we (cousins Ralph, Myrtle, and Mabel, Aunt Clara, Sister Spafford, and I drove to Carthage in the Millikin automobile. There we met more cousins Catherine Salisbury's granddaughter, Mary S. Hancock, and two grandsons, Albert and Herbert Salisbury. No one could have received a more friendly welcome - than did we. Together, we visited Carthage Jail, where Brother Joseph A. McRae kindly showed us the points of interest. My eyes filled with tears at the memory of the tragedy enacted there. A luncheon at the attractive home of Albert Salisbury was a delightful experience, both in respect to food and companionship. In two automobiles, our group then followed along the Mississippi River road to Nauvoo, where thc Prophet and many of our forebears lived in comfortable, well-built, fine homes. No wonder they called it "Nauvoo, the Beautiful!' The wide expanse of the Mississippi River half circles the town like a protecting arm. One has to imagine Nauvoo as it was at the peak of its development, because, now, the place is like a ghost town. However, there remain a few significant landmarks that bespeak the glory of the past. We saw the Prophet's first home, the Mansion House (his last home), and the Nauvoo House, where Emma Smith lived after her husband's martyrdom. The graves of the Prophet, his wife, and his devoted brother Hyrum, are fittingly located on the bank of the "Father of Waters." Sister Spafford's emotions were particularly stirred as she stood on the site of the Prophet's store, for it THE MANSION HOUSE, LAST HOME OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH NAUVOO, ILLINOIS 740 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1946 A VISIT TO CHURCH SHRINES UVOO HO ON After the death of the many years in this house. Was in a room over the store that the Prophet Joseph met with Elders John Taylor, Willard Richards, and eighteen women, on March 17, 1842, and organized the Relief Society. We rode through the streets of Nauvoo to see the homes of some of the early Church leaders. We found three homes of my ancestors which were of great interest to me. They were the former residences of NA USE THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER, Prophet, Emma, his (AT RIGHT) NAUVOO, ILLINOIS wife, and Lucy, his mother, lived for many yea3rs in this house. was in a room o\er the store that the Prophet Joseph met with Elders John Taylor, Willard Richards, and eighteen women, on March 17, 1842, and organized the Relief Society. We rode through the streets of Nauvoo to see the homes of some of the early Church leaders. We found three homes of my ancestors which were of great interest to me. They were the former residences of Lorin Farr, John Smith, and Wilford Woodruff. We also saw the home of Brigham Young and the homes of many others. To us, there was a feeling of sadness and desolation about Nauvoo. No doubt this was due to the memory of the cruel treatment experienced by the saints at the hands of mobs, Motoring back down the river Toad, we crossed the Mississippi on a bridge to the Iowa side. Here, we looked across from Montrose to Nauvoo. We could not but ponder on what might have been. This day of rich memories ended for us in the evening when my dear kinsfolk waved goodbye to us as our train pulled out of the station at Keokuk. Iowa. Thus ended our visit to some of the Church shrines, Sister Spafford and I will long remember, with grateful appreciation. This rare Opportunity. NIGHT Bernice Hacking Balle Night creeps slowly down the lane Trailing garments star-bedecked, Bringing drowsy sleep and shadows To the valleys moon-flecked, The Luxury of Giving Norma Wrathall "Only the poor can know the luxury of giving'" George Eliot THE LUXURY OF GIVING Norma Wrathall only the poor can know the luxury of giving Goerge Eliot THE two little girls, Ruth and Hope, dawdled over their work of cleaning the lamp chimneys. It was 1860, and mama often said what a blessing it was to have oil lamps instead of candles. Of course, there were times when the work of cleaning the chimneys proved irksome, but not today. For when mama and Aunt Em spent an afternoon sewing, something important was often discussed. The little girls tried to be as quiet as possible, so that they would not be sent out of the room, but it was no use. "Run along now, dearies," said Zina Gleason, glancing up. "Put your wraps on, see if there are any more eggs before they freeze in the nests, and give the hens some wheat. Then you can play in the sitting room with your dolls." As the girls trailed reluctantly out, Zina bit off a thread, and leaned forward. "I don't like the looks of things at all," she said, "It was to have been a Christmas wedding, you know, in Salt Lake, so her father could be there. But all of a sudden, Cy announced that he was going to the canyon with the other men to get wood, and Julie told me this morning that the wedding had been postponed? I don't think we needed any more wood, anyway. There's enough to last until early spring." Zina sighed. She was a tall, firmly built woman, her pale features framed by heavy dark braids which wound smoothly about her head. Page 742 Her direct, gray eyes were troubled as she looked at her sister-in-law. Emmeline James was plump, short waisted, jolly looking, with. Rosy features and reddish blond hair which she wore in a large knot on top of her head. Em was very positive in her ideas. She shook her head sympathetically. Sts, sts, it's too bad, Zina," she said. "Goodness knows you've done all a mortal could do to make her feel welcome. I hate to say it, but I've thought all along, she's too citified for this pioneer life..." Her voice trailed off as Zina held up a warning hand. The stair door opened, and Julie Saunders came into the room. She was almost willowy in her slenderness, and her delicate face looked unusually pale in its frame of fluffy, light brown hair. "The baby's asleep at last," she said, speaking of Zina's youngest, two-year-old Jay, who had been named for his father, Jacob Gleason. "Just as he would start to doze, he'd start telling me again of how he has the same birthday as Jesus, and I'd have to tell him the Christmas story again." She laughed softly, but her eyes were uncertain as she glanced over at Em, who, with lips tightly compressed, bent industriously over her knitting. Julie seemed to sense Em's disapproval. Zina rose and began poking the fire in the great, black wood-burning stove, which stood at one side of THE LUXURY OF GIVING _ the high-ceilinged room which was kitchen and dining room. "I do hope his cold doesn't get any worse," she said, speaking of Jay, "he's subject to croup, you know, and it would be just our luck to have him sick for Christmas. I never planned a big day in my life that one of them didn't get sick." She took up her work again, a blue wool dress for her sixteen-year-old Millicent. Em dropped her hands in exasperation. "Oh dear, I'm out of varn. You haven't a Piece that would match this red, have you, Zina? I've just the thumb to finish." She held up the glove she was finishing as a Christmas gift for her husband. Zina rummaged in her large workbasket, which still smelled faintly of wood smoke because it had been made by old Indian Mary. She came back with a mitten. "It's a little darker, but maybe you can make it do.": Julie spoke up quickly. "Cy's going to take me over to Garfield as soon as he comes back from the canyon, so I can get the train to Salt Lake in time for Christmas. Maybe I could get some there." She bit her lips, her cheeks reddening as she remembered she had not told Em she was leaving. Zina spoke up kindly, to cover the girl's confusion. "I hardly think you could get it there, Julie. Garfield's nothing much at this time of year? they have a bathing resort over there in the summer." Em took the mitten and began gathering her work. "Well, Julie, I didn't know you were leaving us, SO soon. I guess it's none too pleasant for you out in this country," she said stiffly, 743 Julie murmured something about its really being very pleasant, and turned quickly toward the window, her eyes full of tears. She doesn't like me, I know she doesn't, was her thought. The two older women put on their wraps, and went out to hitch up Em's horse and buggy. Her house was just over a little rise in the ground, but she had driven over to bring a large basket of things she was going to use to help prepare for the Christmas feast, which was to be at Zina's house this year. After a few minutes, Julie followed them, putting a heavy shawl over her head and shoulders. She stopped by the little fence that separated the dooryard from the big yard, and looked toward the road which stretched on toward the point of the mountain. The Gleason ranch lay on the edge of Tooele Valley, in the rich meadowland. Julie had never seen it in its lush summer beauty. As far as she could see, the bare bench land, as yet only lightly streaked with snow, sloped away to the gray hills. She drew her breath in sharply. Never, never would she be able to get used to the vastness, the emptiness around her. She was not sorry that she and her father had joined the Church soon after her mother's death, and had come to Salt Lake. But all this was so different from her home in Iowa. She looked toward the foothills, where dark clouds were settling, and her uneasiness increased, Suppose there should be an accident, and she might never see Cy again? She shivered, drawing the shawl closer about her, and walked out through the little gate as Em and Zina came from the barn, leading the horse and Tig. "Might as well take these pumpkins over with me now, then I can roll out my pies any time," Em was saying, "I'll send Millie right back." Millicent had stayed with Em's babies for the afternoon. Julie spoke up in vague alarm. "Will you let her walk the half mile alone, when it's getting dusk? Mightn't there be an Indian or something?" Em snorted. "Indians! Why, the idea. I never heard of such..." Zina interrupted gently, "You see, Julie, there hasn't been any Indian trouble since frontier days. The Indians around here are really too docile for their own good. Millie isn't a bit afraid." "Why should she be? H'mph!" Em slapped the gentle old horse vigorously with the lines, and clattered out the big gate, but not before they caught her caustic murmur? Indians! Some people think if they get away from Main Street in Salt Lake, they'll be scalped by savages." "Don't mind Em," laughed Zina, "she really has a heart of gold. But you're without your coat. Let's hurry in I have to get at my chores soon as I get my old gloves on." They walked along in silence, until Julie spoke, her voice low with emotion. "How, or why, do you do it, Zina? Why should women submit to such drudgery, out here on the edge of nowhere!" "Why, Julie, I'm afraid I don't?" "Oh, yes you do! I saw you looking toward the hills. There's a storm brewing, and you're worried, aren't you? Aren't you, Zina?" Julie stopped in her tracks, the wind whipping her long skirts about her ankles. Zina put her hand on Julie's arm, and began drawing her toward the house. "Don't worry so, dear. You're all upset, partly by what Em said. But she didn't mean it. And this really is a wonderful country, Julie. Of course, there are still hardships, but we have such a nice place. Why, I wouldn't trade my home for any place. I mean that. And we women have to do our part. 'There'd have been mighty little' pioneering done without the women." She laughed a little, to soften the seriousness of her words. "I wish I could feel that way about it. I've tried, truly I have. Oh, why can't people live nearer Salt Lake, where you could get help if you needed it?" She looked again toward the hills, and the wind seemed to pick up her words and send them echoing back into her heart. Zina started to say something about how could they build up the country that way, but Julie did not hear. She paused on the top step, her face white and still. "T guess you've wondered why I postponed the wedding. Well, I'm going to tell you. It isn't because I don't love Cy enough, or that you haven't been more than kind to me, Zina. It's just that oh, I just can't stand it, the loneliness and the waiting, for days on end, with your husband out in the hills, or some other far-off place, and no way to get word, or find out what's happened if he doesn't get back and Cy won't leave here?" She turned and ran into the house. Zina's shoulders bent wearily. Had Em been right? She felt tired, with the worry of it all, and, taking the milk pail from its peg over the built- 744 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1946 THE LUXURY OF GIVING up well on the porch, she started toward the barn. By the time December twenty-third arrived, and still the men had not returned from the mountains, Em and Zina were exchanging worried looks, but they went ahead with their plans for Christmas, for the sake of the children.: a sat up late that night, sewing a dress for Ruth's doll. Somehow, she found a sort of solace in the preparations in which all the family seemed to take pride. The doll, given to Ruth the Christmas before, had been brought across the ocean by Zina's grandmother, and the lace was hand-crocheted. It looked very fine under Julie's clever fingers, the dress being made from a bit of material left from Millie's dress. Zina was assembling the children's gifts. "This cradle Jacob made. It's for the little girls together. It's almost large enough for a real baby." She regarded it proudly. "And this little bench is for Jay he can carry it around with him as he plays. Then I've knit each of them a pair of new mittens did I show you _ these long gloves I knit for Jacob? He likes them to come high up on his wrists, because he's out so much in the cold." She began carefully folding the blue dress. "It takes so much planning, and work, and then sometimes I wonder if I've got anything to give them that's worth while. At least, Jay's croup didn't materialize, but now there's this new worry the men not coming home." She bit her lips, for she hadn't intended to say it aloud. Julie, her head bent close to her 745 work, said slowly, "Zina, the way you keep up, and make your plans, is wonderful. Christmas means a lot to you, doesn't it? The way you plan, and all. You put so much of yourself into it. I mean the doll that came across the ocean and all these things you've made by hand." A tear fell unexpectedly down onto the doll's dress, and Julie brushed at it carefully. "And those little pies that you sit up so late on Christmas Eve to make. Millie tells me that she's to help with them this year, because she's sixteen." Zina smiled a little shakily. "Yes, Millie's quite excited about it. We call them St. Nicholas pies, and I began to make them in the years when there was simply nothing else to give the children. I used to fill them with stewed dried fruit, but now I fill them with jelly. They're really very elegant, made with jelly and with the tops like fancy wheels or stars." Julie folded the finished doll's dress, and laid it on the table. Somehow, the gifts she had brought with her, purchased in Salt Lake, which had seemed so fine at the time, now seemed bare compared to_ these things which held so much love. Julie stood up, and put her arm impulsively around Zina's shoulders. "Zina, don't worry. Everything's going to be all right," and turning, she lifted the small lamp from its place on the shelf and hurried upstairs. Her own form leaped in long grotesque shadows from the lamp to the stair wall, and she found herself wondering if her fears were like that, long shadows exaggerated out of all proportion? But suppose something had happened to Cy, and she might never have a chance to explain? Her 746 thoughts held no comfort and she crept into bed, Julie woke with a start to see daylight streaming in and fresh snow sliding from the window panes. She jumped up, realizing that she had overslept. Zina would have been out long before this with the lantern, Sweeping paths to do her chores, Julie tried to push away the heavy feeling that Oppressed her as her Icy fingers fumbled at her clothes. Now she remembered, It was the day before Christmas and there was to be no wedding, and she couldn't go home; Cy was lost in the mountains, But, as she hurried down to the kitchen, a feeling of peace came over her, to see the girls preparing breakfast over the great, black range. It was Christmas Eve day, and Julie helped Zina to clean and stuff the chickens, and watched Em's babies while she rolled out two more mince pies for old Mrs. Bates who lived down the road a piece, and who always helped them out in times of sickness, By the time the cold winter afternoon shadows lay along the porches, Julie stood oftener and oftener by the window, looking out across the snow. Each of the children selected a chair upon which to hang his stocking, near the round sitting. Room stove with its isinglass_ windows, "They don't mind so much about the tree, you know," Zina said, in an aside to Julie. "We don't always have one; this year was to have been sort of Special..." and Julie whispered, "Oh, Zina..." Then Zina held up her hand for silence. There Was a sound. Yes, it was the sound of wagon wheels creaking across the snow. He moments which followed were like a daze to Julie. She heard RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1946 hale and hearty Jacob Gleason explaining that they had broken the much about Julie into the sitting room and closed the door. "Tm sorry, Julie," he said, suddenly embarrassed, "I know I promised to get you home for Christmas ?couldn't be helped, though. Maybe we could make it tomorrow." He had been turning a small package over and over in his hands, and now he held it out to her. "I want you to have this; it isn't much, but [I'd planned to get something else, too," that gifts don't mean so much, unless you give yourself, too." Cy's lean, weather-tanned face took on a puzzled expression. "Why, Julie, what do you mean?" "T_ mean," replied Julie stoutly, her cheeks flaming, "I want to stay for Christmas, and if you won't leave this country, well, I guess |']] Stay." Cy stood stock still, his dark face still incredulous. Then he had her in his arms, and the fluffy brown hair was against his cheek as he murmured, "Julie, Julie, are you sure?" But he must have found out that she was sure, for, long after the children had tiptoed upstairs to bed, and Zina, her eyes heavy with sleep, her face dusted with flour, had fixed the last wagon wheel a little lopsidedly atop the last St. Nicholas pie, Cy and Julie still sat by the round sitting room Stove, and the Christmas stars were in their eyes, Pioneer Stories and Incidents ON THE RIVER PLATTE President Amy Brown Lyman [This is the fifth in a series of true Pioneer incidents to be Published by The Relief Society Magazine in honor of the 1947 Utah Centennial Celebration) THE Platte River, which stretches across the continent from the Rocky Mountains to the Missouri River, has been the scene of countless thrilling incidents in the history of the Latter-day Saints. Their travels, for approximately seven hundred miles, were scarcely ever more than a mile from its shores. It was a river of hope for the thousands who traveled by its side and who crossed and recrossed it by ford, by ferry, or by boat. Its shores teemed with Indians and also with buffalo, elk, birds, and other wild life seeking water and feed.
If the old Platte could speak, it could tell innumerable storiesstories both romantic and pathetic, but all of the most thrilling interest. It could tell of the unique experiences of pioneers and pathfinders, of stampedes, prairie fires, thunderstorms. It could tell, also, of the joys and pleasures of the pioneers, and of their difficulties and sorrows. It could supply data for a great epicthe epic of the plains. Even today the Old Mormon Trail along the Platte is marked, because a great portion of it is covered by the roadbed of the Union Pacific Railroad.
One of the interesting stories of the Platte River is that of a little New England girl of nineteen, and a tall, brave young teamster of twenty-seven, whose coming together has left an entire period of their journey along the shores of the Platte from the Missouri River to Deer Creek, Wyoming, where their marriage took place just before their entry into Salt Lake Valley. It was in the year 1852, when the migration across the plains was at such a height that there was an almost unbroken stream of covered wagons winding its way to the West. This interesting young couple were Mary Ann Stearns and Oscar Winters, parents of Sister Augusta Winters Grant.
Mary Ann was the daughter, by a former marriage, of Mary Ann Pratt, wife of Parley P. Pratt. In the absence of Elder Pratt, who was doing missionary work for the Church at the time, Sister Pratt and her three children, Mary Ann, nineteen; Olivia, twelve; and Moroni, eight; made their own way across the plains. Mary Ann was of great help to her mother, and willingly assumed a good share of the family responsibility.
When they reached the first camp five miles on their way, and it was found necessary to discard their heavy new cooking stove to lighten their load, Mary Ann was sent back to Kanesville, in a buggy going that way, to order a thin, sheet-iron stove. Three trips in all were made before the stove was ready, and, on all these trips, Mary Ann went with Oscar Winters, who drove her back to be on hand whenever Sister Pratt Page 747 needed help of any kind. He often assisted her teamster, who was inexperienced in handling oxen, over difficult situations, and saw that her equipment was kept in good repair. These various contacts gave him added opportunity to pay court to his sweetheart. As a matter of fact, Oscar Winters was helpful to everybody. An expert in the handling of horses and oxen, he was the wagon master and_ had charge of all the teams and drivers in the company. He was, therefore, a familiar figure to everyone as he rode back and forth on his horse, helping wherever he was needed. Oscar had first met Mary Ann six years before this, in 1846, in Nauvoo, during the exodus from that city. He had been a member of a company of infantry which had been trying to guard the temple and the city from the mob in the battle of Nauvoo. He was no doubt happy, now, to be able to renew his acquaintance with the Pratt family. Oscar's father, Hyrum Winters, who was himself preparing to leave for the West with a later company, had also befriended Sister Pratt by seeing that the wagon which had been provided for her by the Emigration Fund was in good condition. When he had delivered it to her he had informed her that it was one of the best made in his shop. The son Oscar's journey across the plains was a happy and romantic one, but that of his father and mother was sad. During their trip, his mother, Rebecca Winters, passed away and was buried near Scotts Bluff on the Platte River, where her grave was marked at that time by a piece of the tire of a wagon wheel. Many years later, however, a monument was erected by her family as a tribute to her and to all other mothers who lost their lives on the plains. Also a marker was placed at her grave by the Daughters of the American Revolution, as a tribute to a "daughter." It was in August that the marriage of Oscar and Mary Ann took place at Deer Creek, on a Sabbath evening. 'The company had laid over this week end for repairing the wagons and for a rest on the Sabbath. On her wedding day, Mary Ann looked charming and cool in a green gingham dress, which had been carefully pressed by a flatiron borrowed from a neighbor, their own iron having been left at one of the camps where it had been set out to cool, and for8otten. Her hair was done in proper fashion, although she had no mirror to consult. The ceremony was performed by Elder Lorenzo Snow, who had paused at the camp on his return home from a mission to Italy. The wedding meal, which consisted of fresh bread baked in a skillet, fresh butter, a piece of meat, and cold water, was greatly enjoyed by all. Soon after their arrival in Utah, Brother and Sister Winters settled in the beautiful little village of Pleasant Grove, which became their permanent home, and where their eight children were reared. & 748 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1946 AUTUMN WIND Katherine Fernelius Larsen The wind is a wandering minstrel In the autumn time; He chants of far-off places Where the bells of temples chime; He plucks the brittle branches Toa gypsy song, And sings of moon-drenched southern seas And white roads beckoning, Far and long. Oh, I would up and be away To join him in his roving, But for the household tasks to do? Ah, such the bonds of loving! THE JUNGLE TREE Elsie F. Parton Gaunt, scarred and bare, bereft of beauty! Observer of the centuries now past! What suffering, what trials have you witnessed? What joys, what sorrows have their shadows cast, As sentinel you stood on the mountain summit, The jungle sweeping dense beneath your brow? How can they tell who never knew your beauty? How can they weep who first behold you now? Your questing roots, when first the rich earth piercing. Gleaned strength and beauty for your leafy arms. The tropic deluge bathed your olive beauty, And blazing sunbeams pierced your shadowed charms. Here, dusky maidens met their friends and lovers, Exotic flowers entwined their raven hair; They vowed and visioned dim, uncertain futures, With only you their ecstasy to share. Aloft you stand, bereft of all your glory! No more before the tempest you will bow. The jungle winds are whispering around you? But you are dead and cannot hear them now. Page 749 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent November 1, and November 15, 1886 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL Nations" EDITORIAL NOTES: To encourage the patrons of the Woman's Exponent, we have decided to give to each subscriber of the paper, at Christmas time, 4 picture, which will be suitable for framing, of one of the most notable women of the Church? Lucy Smith, the mother of the Prophet Joseph. It is said by those who were personally acquainted with the lady, to be an excellent likeness. AUTUMNAL TINTS: There is no season of the year when the earth is more magnificent in its glory and beauty than the Autumn, and especially October. In September the leaves begin to fade and turn yellow, and sometimes the pale blue sky is dim OF Jaden, but the mellow October days are rife with beauty.--- The fallen leaves what sentiment they call up in the human heart, and how one loves to tread upon them, what poetical thoughts they inspire. Immense flocks of blackbirds sail across the pathway and over the brown fields, lighting among the soft willows that frame the water's edge.--- The murmuring music of the leaves when the Autumn breeze begins to sway the trees, and they bend and sigh and moan, has something so pensive in it, that it thrills the human heart and softens it like the music of the harp with a thousand chords gently played by a skillful hand. Aunt Em APOSTROPHE Oh, Sympathy! Thou dear and holy thing, Be not abashed fear not to reach thy hand Unto the weary and the sorrowing, To soothe, to strengthen, and to help them stand. Oh Justice! Thou hast waited long so long; Thy look is fierce and searching, like the sun; Thy voice ls sharp, thine arm is firm and strong, Who shall abide when thy day's work is done? ?Lula POETS AND POETRY:..Poetry is that sentiment of the soul, or faculty of the mind, which enables its possessor to appreciate and realize the heights and depths of human experience. It is the power to feel pleasure OF suffer pain, in all its exquisiteness and intensity. - -- Nearly all men and women are poetical to some extent, but very few of them can be called poets..-- The greater the poet the greater ls his capacity to suffer and enjoy.--- They who express most must likewise feel most, both of pleasure and pain... - There are some people who think there is no poetry in religion..- Religion is full of poetry, and poetry is full of religion.--- Poets do not always know what great truths they are telling. Like the prophets, whom they so much resemble, they have in all ages "builded better than they knew."... Thus, is poetry shown to be the elder sister of history, the mother of language, and the ancestress of civilization.--- But the end is not yet. There are heights to climb which have never been surmounted; depths to fathom which still remain unsounded. Orson F, Whitney. Page 750 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon THE wives of the presidents of Utah's three universities represent a high type of Latter-day Saint and of American womanhood. LLA GIBBS -McDONALD, wife of Howard S. McDonald, President of Brigham Young University, Provo, met. Her husband while both were missionaries in the Eastern States. She has studied at the Agricultural College in Logan and at the University of California. In Berkeley, she held a Primary class in her home, besides teaching a Sunday School and a Relief Society class. In San Francisco, she was stake Relief Society theology leader and taught a theology class in Sunset Ward. She was later first counselor in the stake Relief Society presidency. She enjoys her renewed association with Utah people, the beautiful "Y" campus, and her new responsibilities and privileges. She has two lovely daughters. ESTELLE SPILSBURY HARRIS, her husband, Franklin S. Harris, President of Utah State Agricultural College, Logan, four daughters, and two sons, are all graduates of Brigham Young University, of which institution Dr. Harris was president for many years. Mrs. Harris received her Bachelor of Science degree from the B. Y. U. At the time of her youngest daughter's graduation. With her husband, she spent part of a year in Europe and one in Iran, where she was particularly impressed with the people's skill in design and color, and with their true hospitality. Her special interest is the training of girls for homemaking. She and her brothers and sisters, in honor of their mother, who had twelve children, started a home economics library at the B. Y. U., to which they add books each year. LVA C. OLPIN, wife of A. Ray Olpin, President of the University of Utah, is the daughter of Stephen L. Chipman of American Fork, Utah, former Alpine Stake president and also Salt Lake Temple president. Mrs. Olpin, endowed with a beautiful coloratura soprano voice, was graduated in music from Brigham Young University and continued her studies in New York after serving as a missionary in the Eastern States. She has lived, also, in Charlotte, North Carolina, and in Columbus, Ohio. In Charlotte, Dr. Olpin, serving as district president, opened a branch of the Church, and Mrs. Olpin organized a Relief Society. She was also district director of music and district president of Relief Society in Columbus. Now, at the University of Utah, Mrs. Olpin is actively interested in all campus Organizations. The Olpins have three daughters and one son. Page 751 EDITORIAL VOL. 33 NOVEMBER 1946 NO. 11 She Looketh Well to the Ways of Her Household; How' often one hears the expression, "She is a good manager," and then the speaker recounts how the woman in question makes many of her own and her children's clothing, beautifies and furnishes her home with the workmanship of her hands, exercises thrift in buying, and performs many tasks for herself, thus saving money. It reminds one of the woman spoken of in Proverbs who "looketh well to the ways of her household and eateth not the bread of idleness." It shows that women living at any time in the world's history are much the same? some being provident and others wasteful and indolent. For these past few years during the days of prosperity, Church leaders have urged Latter-day Saints to free themselves from debt. Now, with prices of all commodities spiraling, fortunate is the family which heeded this advice and does not find itself in subjugation to debt. Today it is vital to the welfare of every family that the mother be a "good manager." She will have much to do in determining the financial status of her family. Great contrasts in living and surroundings may be found in the case of two men mak. Ing comparable wages. The "good manager" mother will see that she has put by an adequate supply of Page 752 ?Proverbs 31/297 fruits, vegetables, and other foodstuffs for the coming winter. She will rejoice as -she views her full shelves. Her children will be well supplied with clothing, many of them fashioned or remodeled by her hands. Her home, in its beauty, will reflect her industry, and growing plants in her windows will lend an air of springtime even on the coldest winter day. Contrast this home of order and beauty with the home where a mother does not manage well. Either through a lack of knowledge or indolence, her storehouse is not supplied for the coming season, and throughout the winter she will be buying out-of-season food at high prices. Her children may not be supplied with adequate, reasonably-priced clothing, for money will be squandered on second-grade merchandise through a lack of means to buy the best at the present inflated prices. This woman's husband will not be able to get ahead, as was the husband of the prudent woman, because his wife is unskilled in homemaking arts, or else is indolent. Relief Society has a responsibility toward every Latter-day Saint woman to offer and seek to improve her homemaking skills, and, if a woman's home responsibilities keep her from attending Relief Society work EDITORIAL meetings, an effort should be put forth to give her help and instruction in her own home. Whether a sister needs help in improving her cooking, sewing, budgeting, or keeping her house clean, Relief Society should be prepared to offer instruction on better and more efficient methods along all these lines of homemaking. For the past ten years, through the Welfare Plan, Church leaders have pleaded with the saints to prepare themselves for the times ahead. The 753 women of the Church must do the share devolving upon them as the mothers in the home in preserving and producing the necessities of the home, such as food and clothing, so that they may fully support their husbands, the bearers of the Priesthood, in the work which will be dependent upon them in the future times. "Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates" (Proverbs 31:31). FRIENDLY TOWN Bertha A. Kleinman I'm glad I live within a Friendly Town Where old and young are tolerant of me, Where many smile and few there be who frown, No matter what my misdemeanors be. I'm glad I live within a neighborhood, Where friendly folk exact so little test, Where slander falls away, and only good Induces me to measure to my best. I'm glad I live within a family sphere Where folk forgive the all I should have been, Where, when I fail, they love me just as dear And lift me up to try and try again. Yes, here I am the happiest to be, Among my own who strive the most with me. "What Shall I Do Now, Mother?" Elizabeth Williamson With illustration by the author F your child is recovering from an illness or has a cold and has to stay in bed, he will need something to do. He will be much happier if he is occupied, and if he is happy, you will be happy, too, and the affairs of the household will run more smoothly. Mother must be a nurse; she must keep her child physically comfortable and entertained, as well. She may also be the housekeeper and she will be responsible for the welfare of the other members of the family at th same time.: il The wise and thoughtful homemaker will find many ways to help solve her problems when there is illness in the home. Schedules work in hospitals, and many mothers in their homes have found that a general plan enables them to accomplish more work and also helps them to secure more rest than might be possible otherwise. However, all mothers know that they must adjust even the best schedule to fit the particular needs of their own families. In many cases, the mother must prepare the breakfast, pack the lunches, help other children get ready for school, and care for a baby, before she can finally turn her undivided attention to the child who must remain in bed. When mother is the nurse, and ready to give the child his bath, she will find that "animal" soap and bright-colored towels add to the interest of the bath. The frequent Page 754 changing of pajamas or nightgowns gives added interest. Gay printed flannelette will prove a favorite with the child, and material designed in bird patterns, or lambs, flowers, or fruit, will-also have great appeal. Attractively. Packaged cold creams and. Bath powders will help to lighten the monotony of the days for the bedridden child. Immediately after the bath has been given is a good time to change the bed linen. If the child must remain in bed, it is helpful to move him to one side of the bed and roll up the soiled sheet close to his back. Then tuck in the fresh sheet, folding the surplus down the center of the bed. The child is then rolled onto the clean side of the bed; the soiled sheet is withdrawn, and the clean one tucked in place. Two or three small pillows with bright-colored cases will delight the child, and he will enjoy placing them where they will give him the most comfort, When the child sits up in bed to eat his breakfast, a wedge-shaped pillow will give him good support. However, a little stool or a small chair with a pillow against it, will make a substitute back rest. A bed table or four-legged tray (one may be fashioned out of a pasteboard carton) is almost a necessity for serving meals, and it is useful, also, when the child is reading, drawing, or playing games. Bright-colored cloths and napkins add to the beauty and interest of the "WHAT SHALL I DO NOW, MOTHER?" tray. Paper napkins and cloth can be used, or the gay new plastic materials can be made into covers for the tray. These sets might be varied for each day, or even for different meals. Dishes with colorful and interesting designs will make your child happy. Let the little cream pitcher and the cereal dish, the plate, and the drinking glass be changed from time to time. The element of surprise is good for children. A fresh bouquet, a little figurine (a gay rooster, a little dog, a lamb) will delight your small patient. The busy mother may find it necessary to leave her child alone for certain intervals, especially during the morning hours. If the child understands the necessity of this procedure, he will be co-operative, and 755 he may even find pleasure in being left to his own devices. Much depends upon the attitude the mother takes toward her child and his illness. It is helpful for the mother to be outwardly calm and cheerful. She should realize that a large part of the healing process may be dependent upon her attitude and that of the family. Cheerfulness, courage, faith, are the "soul medicines" for daily use. If the child is well enough, he might enjoy some of the following activities: Jig-saw puzzles Paper dolls Pictures to cut from old magazines, such as animals, airplanes, flowers, food, fruits, etc. Scrapbook, in which to paste cut-out pictures. Arranging rooms in empty boxes, using spools, small boxes, bits of cloth for furniture; cut small dolls for the occupants Drawing, coloring, painting Simple sewing, knitting, crocheting It will help to relieve the day's monotony to serve fruit juices, milk, water, and other fluids in different types and styles of glasses. In one instance where the taking of fluid was essential, a child was allowed to drop a penny in his bank after each glassful. The lunch can be made attractive by varying the linen and the dishes, as was suggested for the breakfast tray. Elements of the unusual and the unexpected might be utilized by bringing to the bedside a tray of various kinds of fruit or a tray of different kinds of bread or rolls. Sandwiches can be cut in the shape of stars, crescents, animals, etc. Warm foods can be brought to the bed in covered, individual casseroles. The time spent by the child in rest periods and sleeping will leave the mother free to devote to the activities of keeping her household in order and for preparing the evening meal for the family. Perhaps, in the late afternoon, the mother, father, or the other children can play some games with the bedridden child, if his physical condition permits this much activity. Some simple game will be most enjoyed. "The Postman," an example of a guessing game, is played as follows: Question: "Is it a girl?" Answer: "No." Question: "Is it a boy?" Answer: "No." Question: ''Is it a woman?" Answer: "No." Question: "Is it a man?" Answer: "Yes." Question: "Does he live in our town?" Answer: "Yes." Question: "Do I know him?" Answer: "Yes." Question: "Did I see him today?" Answer: "Yes." Question: "Does he wear a gray suit?" Answer: "Yes." Question: "Is it our postman?" Answer: "Yes." This game can be played with birds, flowers, buildings, cities, countries, or states for the subject material. A child who does not have enough energy to play a game will sometimes enjoy having some member of the family read to him. The reading might include poems, stories, or letters. Selections from the New Testament will appeal to older children. Simply told Bible stories will be of interest to even small children. Occasionally, the child will take delight in hearing some appropriate music over the radio or he may be entertained by phonograph records of children's music. Storytime, just before a child goes to sleep in the evening, is a ritual in many families, and the child who is ill will not want to be neglected in this respect. Illness and convalescence are usually trying periods both for the one who is ill and for the mother whose responsibilities and worries are greatly increased thereby. It is well to remember that discipline is even more important in times of illness than it is when the child is well. The mother must be considerate and kind, and vet must be firm in maintaining as near normal behavior habits as possible. It is surprising how much a planned schedule will help to make this possible and_ to make the days pass smoothly and pleasantly. 756 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1946 As You Were Martha Robeson Wright ONNIE Reynolds stood with C her father and the two boys and watched the train pull out of the station. As their mother's smile and waving hand disappeared into the distance, the boys' lower lips began to stick out. 'They batted their eyes to keep back the tears. That was because this was the first time their mother would be away for longer than overnight. But Connie didn't feel sad about her mother going away for a week's visit with her parents. Inside, her heart was tingling with anticipation. One whole week of being her own boss! She would be on her own. No one to tell her constantly to do this, or not to do that. Her mother's nagging had begun to get on her nerves. It was a good thing her mother was going away for a rest. After all, she wasn't young any more; she was all of thirty-four years old, and a woman that age couldn't be expected to have the control over her nerves that a younger person would have. And there was the matter of the living room. Now Connie could change the furniture around so_ it would look like something. She had been begging her mother for over a year to arrange it differently. Surely a girl sixteen was no longer a child, and should have some taste. The whole room was off balance. Nothing synchronized at all. The furniture didn't show up properly. And there were the boys. Just because Tommy was seven and Jack was six, there was no reason to treat them like babies. 'Talking to them constantly didn't solve any problems. Her mother said they acted so to tease Connie, but most of the time when she was around their manners were simply loathsome. The ride home from the station could have been more pleasant. The boys quarreled all the way. Her father didn't say a word. He was probably wondering how things were going to be without a woman in charge. Once or twice Connie found herself opening her mouth to speak sharply to the boys. Her mother would have kept saying, "Boys, stop that quarreling. Are you sure both the car doors are locked? We don't want any of you to fall out and get concussion like the Terrill boy did last summer." Mother fretted too much about everything. Boys had to learn some time. The. Quarreling didn't stop. Finally, Connie, in the most patient, sweet, and unexasperated voice that she could manage, said to them, "If you boys will stop your bickering, I'll give you each a nickel when we get home." 'The peace and quiet was so sudden it made Connie uncomfortable. But that was the way to do it, she thought, a nickel each was much better than a scolding. Her father didn't say anything until they reached home and he let them out. Then he said, "Connie, are you sure you'll be all right? Can you handle the boys? Get them to school this afternoon?" She drew herself up and became most dignified. "Of course, Daddv.  And you be home at the regular time. A nice dinner will be waiting for you." "That'll be fine, Snooks." He tweeked the front lock of her blond hair. "Don't let the boys get you down." "Don't worry. You saw how nicely I handled them in the car." He nodded, and his face became absolutely expressionless. Probably didn't want her to see that he was impressed. Afraid it might go to her head. "It's fine, if you can afford it,' he added, and backed the car out into the street and drove down to the office. It took Connie two hours to get the living-room the way she wanted it. The couch in front of the fireplace, with the two small tables at each end and the tall lamps on them. The biggest chair over by the big window. One of the cretonne covered chairs near there, too, making a nice conversation group. The combination radio and record player cabinet she put against the. Inside wall, with chairs on each side of it. Everything was perfect. Now there wasn't all that empty space in the center of the room. Funny how her mother hadn't understood about that. Now the room was balanced. Moving furniture had tired her a bit, but she began to get lunch. Her mother had left the pantry shelves stocked with cans of soup, vegetables, and fruit. When she was home, her mother made wonderful soup; but Connie wouldn't have time for that. She opened two cans of different soups and combined them. The baked ham sandwiches, with lettuce peeking from between the slices of bread, were really luscious. There was chocolate cake and vanilla pudding. Really, a nice lunch. And it wouldn't be eaten in the kitchen. She had tried to explain, once, to her mother, that children got awful manners from eating in the kitchen. But her mother had only smiled and gone on setting the table in the big kitchen. Today, they were eating lunch in the dining room! THE set the table with one of the nicer everyday cloths, and used the extra tall glasses for the milk. That would save her steps. She wouldn't have to be refilling the glasses. She called the boys as she heard them on the porch. They came in, giggling at something, their mouths smeared with licorice. "Please go to the bathroom at once and wash," she said quietly. None of that "Hurry up boys and get washed this minute," as her mother always said. They went tumbling into the bathroom, and shut the door. The water was turned on with such force that Connie hoped the basin wouldn't overflow. She also hoped the boys weren't squirting water at each other, as they often did. She looked anxiously at the clock. Only twenty minutes left for lunch. She went to the bathroom door. "Boys, please open the door and come out. The soup is getting cold." The boys giggled. "Open the door, 'Tommy, and let me in." "Girls can't come in the bathroom when mens is in there," Jack said. She prided herself on her control. "Come on, now boys, you'll be late for school." She turned the handle of the door. It opened and the boys laughed 758 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1946 AS YOU WERE uproarously. Then they marched past her, faces solemn. Their almost white, blond hair was soaking wet and plastered down. Their round rosy faces shone with soap that hadn't been rinsed off. She also saw that their fronts were decidedly damp. But there wasn't time to change. The air was warm and they'd soon dry. They rushed to the kitchen and turned to her with a puzzled look. She motioned to the dining room. "Boy, look at the big glasses," Jack said, and reached. Somehow, the glass got off balance and milk went running: over the clean cloth and down-on the rug. For a moment Connie wanted to shake him. Instead, she quietly mopped up the mess, changed Jack 'to the other side of the table and provided him with a fresh glass of milk a smaller glass. The boys ate their soup with all the quietness of horses at a watering trough. Connie knew she mustn't say a word. Instead, she set a good example by eating carefully, always dipping the spoon away from her, quietly taking it from the side and not sucking it out of the end. The example didn't seem to impress the boys. But their soup was eaten. They wolfed the sandwiches, and she made no attempt to slow them. She would get them off for school as soon as possible. They grabbed their sweaters and airily waved her good-bye. "Be seeing yuh." "You come right home from school and change into your play clothes. I'll be here before you are." "Sure." They were off down the street. 759 The boys didn't come in to change after school. 'They seemed to disappear each time she went out to look for them. One of their friends was in the yard next door. "Have you seen the boys?" she asked him. "I had planned to give them each a nickel for coming in promptly to change their clothes, but they haven't been home." She knew it would work. Within a few minutes the two little towheads came ambling in the back door and to their room. ~ They changed their clothes and stood silently before her, right hands outstretched. Without a word, she handed each a nickel. They went back out to play. While she was getting dinner, the front doorbell rang three times. Connie found that going around the furniture in the middle of the room took quite a bit of time. But the dinner, when it was finally put on the table, was good. Her father ate everything heartily and complimented her on her cooking. The boys ate as usual. When they saw her looking at them, they opened their mouths wider and chewed louder, their blue eyes raised ceilingward in seeming innocence. "Chew with your mouths closed," her father told them, and they did.... CONNIE found herself out of money by the end of the fifth day. By that time she realized that she had done nothing but work... Come home from school, check up on the boys, straighten the house, prepare the food, watch the boys. She hadn't gone anywhere nor had a friend in, and she had _ served lunch in the kitchen after the first day, for she didn't have time to be too fancy. She had also put the furniture back the way her mother had had it. She could see her mother's reason. It took so much longer to dust and run the carpet sweeper when she had to move everything out of the middle of the rug. Her plans for elaborate desserts had not been carried out, either. She found that the boys were so stuffed with candy purchased with their new source of income, that they had no room left for dessert. She was wishing she hadn't begun the nickel business. Money didn't solve problems with the boys. Their hands came out too often and for too little service. As each night came, Connie crawled into bed so tired she could hardly move. She often wondered how she had had the energy to get her homework, of which she had plenty. She suddenly wondered how her mother managed. She also had the washing and ironing to do, besides going to meetings during the week, going out with Daddy, and entertaining friends and relatives. A woman needed co-operation to get housework done. Even famous generals could never win a battle without co-operation. Saturday was the day before her mother was coming home. The house must be spotless. Connie let the boys out to play in their oldest clothes. She cleaned their room, straightened the other bedrooms, and vacuumed all the floors. Fresh flowers brightened the living room. She polished the furniture until it glistened. She baked a cake. It was the one recipe that would always turn out the same for her. She made a meat loaf and put it in the refrigerator, ready for the oven. Potatoes were scrubbed and _ greased, ready also, for the oven. What a day! At five, she lay soaking in the bathtub, trying to get the aches out of her body. But the satisfaction she felt over the spick and span house took away some of that tired feeling. She decided to get the boys in the tub early and to bed early, so they wouldn't have a chance to muss things. Leisurely, she wrapped herself in the huge bath towel she had received last month as a birthday present. She opened the bathroom door and stepped into the hall to go to her room to get dressed. Then voices came to her from the living room. Boys' voices. She went to investigate. Four boys, two of them her brothers, lay on their stomachs in the middle of the room. Where they had picked up the mud that was on their shoes when the days had been dry and clear, Connie couldn't guess. But the mud was there and on the rug. Also there was a large circle for their marbles, and the circle was drawn with white chalk! Connie stood there looking at them, clutching her bath towel angrily. She spoke, and her words were neither dulcet nor sweet. "Tommy, and Jack Reynolds, get up from there this minute, before I get madder. Get the dustpan and clean up that mud. Geta cloth with water. Wipe that chalk off the rug." The two brothers looked at her. They stood up, and together two dirty right hands held themselves out for nickels. Connie looked at them coldly. "That racket is over washed up. Get going and do as I tell you, or I'll phone Daddy. This room was spotless." It might have been the look in her 760 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1946 

Tow. The little boys went out quiet and dance up and down with dely and brought back the dustpan light. There was mother, pretty and the broom. Smiling, and walking toward them. A house and make boys obey. In laughed,. Fact, it took about everything, inBut Connie didn't feel that Way. Cluding all of your energy. How did She didn't smile. As her mother her mother find time to do all she came toward them, Connie's lower did? She understood now why her lip began to stick out. She batted her mother nagged. It Wasn't nagging at cyes to keep back the tears. That Children?herself included?had to ful it was to have her mother home learn Tesponsibility, They had to again. She was going to do everybe told over and over. They weren't thing she could to keep her mother taught by handing out money to smiling and happy. Connie Tan tohem... | Connie stood with her father and stretched. After all, sixteen didn't the two little boys on the station mean that One was too grown up to platform, watching the train come hug one's mother in public. _? a CONSOLATION Zara Sabin Let me mourn with you, I miss her, too; She often, straying, knocked upon my door And called, "Come in?" and laughed and shook her curls, As she heard my answering footsteps on the floor, And to your stricken hearts that feeble c AS YOU WERE - 761 

Faith Is a Heritage Christie Lund Coles CHAPTER 8 Synopsis: Enid Drage, young, attractive widow of Tom Drage, is teaching in the small town where she lives. She is trying to make a good life for her daughter, Sharon, and is deeply hurt when the girl complains that they have no place where she can entertain, and they probably never will have. Enid considers a solution. S they came out of the school building, Enid was surprised to see Mr. Fletcher's long, black car waiting for them. Mr. Fletcher was standing beside it. He motioned to them. "T met him on the way up," Sharon whispered to her mother, "he must have gone to get his car." "How nice," Enid murmured, half to her daughter, half to him, as she approached the automobile. "I knew you would want to hurry,' he said, as he helped her into the car. "I understand you and Miss Nobbit have been close friends." "Oh, we have. We have, indeed," Enid assured him, feeling a sob break in her throat. "She has been so very kind." He took his free hand and covered hers with it, almost possessively. She saw Sharon watching, and drew her hand away self-consciously. He tried to meet her eyes when they reached the house. She knew he wanted to ask to see her, but she pretended more confusion than she felt, as she said, "Thank you. I must hurry..." "Perhaps I could be of help," he suggested. Page 762 "No. No, please don't bother. Sharon says the doctor is already here...." "If you need me in any way, call me." "Yes, I will," she called over her shoulder, hurrying into the house. The blinds were drawn in the bedroom and the doctor was listening to Miss Nobbit's heartbeats with his stethoscope, bending over the incredibly pale woman. The neighbor, Mrs. Willis, was standing near the bed. The doctor looked up as Enid came in and shook his head gravely. "You mean, there is no hope?". She asked him, trembling, conscious of her own heart thudding painfully in her chest. "Tm afraid not," he_ replied, "she's unconscious now." Yet Miss Nobbit opened her eyes as Enid dropped on her knees beside her, and smiled feebly. "I'm all right," she murmured weakly. Enid smiled, "Of course you're all right. Don't try to talk." "I want to change my will," the woman whispered, laboring hard for breath. Quickly Mrs. Willis asked, "Shall I call the attorney?" The doctor nodded, "He can be here in a moment, call him." By the time the attorney had come, Enid was so distraught she could not stay in the room. She went out, paced the floor of the living room, alternately rubbing her icy cold hands. Sharon, pale and. Frightened, sat crying in one corner FAITH IS A HERITAGE of the room. "Is... Is Auntie really going to die?" she 'asked tremulously. "I'm afraid so, dear," Enid admitted, "but she isn't young, you know. She is tired..." Facing death, facing the great, silent chasm that separates the living from those gone on, is an awesome thing. Enid saw things straight for the first time in a long while. She realized what was of worth and what was not, what was eternal and what was temporal and superficial. She looked at her hand, she could feel Mr. Fletcher's touch upon it _.. Too soft, too flabby... It would be hard to have Sharon go on without a home such as her friends possessed, but she would have to understand. There were greater things that she could be given. God helping her, Enid vowed, she would give her those things. The attorney came out. Mrs. Willis came to the door with him and beckoned to the mother and daughter. Miss Nobbit wanted to see them. LATER, when all the details had been attended to, Sharon and Enid sat on each side of their small kitchen table and toyed with the untouched food upon their plates. Sharon questioned, "Mom, are you going to marry Mr. Fletcher?" Enid felt herself flush. She wished they might have waited until some other time to discuss it, and she hedged for time, "I suppose I'll consider that when he asks me." "Oh, he'll ask you all right. Everyone can see it in his eyes, people are talking about it. The girls treat me differently..." "I suppose you would like it... 763 if I did?" Enid's voice was even, yet anxious, each word weighted with expectancy.. The girl looked at her for a moment, "I'd like that house... I'd like my own car, all the things money can buy. Id like it for your sake, so that you wouldn't have to work, wouldn't have to be so tired when night comes. Yes, I'd like it.. "d The girl paused and would have gone on, after a second, but there was a knock on the door. Enid arose to answer it. She saw Mr. Watts, the attorney, standing before her. Her heart sank, perhaps already, because of the will, it would be necessary to dispose of this property. Where would they live? There were no available houses in town. "How do you do?" Enid greeted him, somewhat resentful that whatever he had to say could not have waited at least until the morning. She was tired. She had had about all the emotional strain she could bear for one day. "May I speak to you... Alone, Mrs. Drage?" he asked her, coming in, looking about him in evident surprise at their meager quarters. "Of course," she replied, turning to Sharon, "Run over to Sue's for a few moments, will you, dear?" When Sharon had gone, Mr. Watts sat down and, as another attorney had done a long time ago, he took out his brief case and proceeded to unfold some papers. Enid wondered idly what this procedure would have to do with her. She thought, perhaps having lived here with Miss Nobbit, she would be expected to know certain things about her property, and might be needed as a witness for something or other. But Miss Nobbit had never discussed business with her. Her property had been her own affair. Actually, she was still thinking about Sharon's words, was still wondering how to tell the child her decision about Mr. Fletcher so that Sharon would understand. "It may come as a complete surprise to you, Mrs. Drage," Mr. Watts was saying, "but Miss Nobbit left her entire estate to you... This house, a small piece of land west of town, and a few hundred dollars. It was her dying request that you be made sole heir." Enid's thoughts came to the present moment with a start, "You mean, really... This house is mine... Why, I was afraid you had come to tell me we would have to move at once because 'your client wanted the house. Oh, how kind of her... How very kind!" The wracking tears that she had not shed, suddenly fell from her eyes; sobs shook her slender body. He cleared his throat as he said, "Yes, I don't suppose you need fear having to move... Ever... Unless you want to... And in that case, this property could easily be disposed of. In fact, I might say I would be glad to handle it for you at any time." His eyes had a knowing look. He was trying to find out her plans, he was curious as everyone else was curious. It made her a little sick. She stood up straight. "I am very grateful to Miss Nobbit. For the present, I have no plans. Goodnight, Mr. Watts." He bowed, smiled, prepared for his departure, "Goodnight, Mrs. Drage. Good luck to you." When the door had closed upon him, she stood for a moment before the mirror on the wall. Her hair was disheveled about her face, there were dark circles under her eyes, yet she had the look of a child who is very tired. She had started to the phone to call Sharon, when she heard another knock upon the door. Opening it, she saw Mr. Fletcher standing before her, newly shaven, immaculately dressed. "Why, Mr. Fletcher," she stammered in surprise, "I didn't expect..." THE came into the room apologizing, "I know I shouldn't have come without telephoning, but I did want to see you." Coming closer to her, he went on, "And please, my dear, don't call me 'Mister Fletcher.' Won't you call me Carl?" She moved a step from him, yet there was something rather pitiful in the way he asked the question. She -replied, "Perhaps, if you wish..." Now, it was his turn to look about the room, to see the place where she and Sharon had spent the past fifteen years. The simplicity of it struck her as though she, too, were seeing it for the first time. It had become dear to her. It was home, and she accepted it, but she could understand how another would feel about it, seeing it for the first time. He was moved to sudden, unexpected words, "My dear child, and you've lived here all this time... Alone! I hadn't meant to force your answer, but you must know how I feel. Tell me, won't you let me take care of you from now on? Give you all the things you've missed?" She closed her eyes for just a moment, stumbled a little toward him 764 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1946 FAITH IS A HERITAGE in her great weariness, and he, mistaking it for acquiescence, slipped his arm about her waist. He was about to kiss her when the door opened and Sharon stood there, looking at them. Enid drew back, looked at her daughter. She could not read what was in the girl's face. Sharon spoke to them and went on into the kitchen without revealing either pleasure or displeasure. Enid pulled herself together, "I'm really sorry you spoke, Mr. Fletcher. We'll just forget that the words were said... For the time being. And I hope you'll forgive me if I tell you I am extremely weary tonight..." "Of course... Of course..." he assured her, affronted a little, nevertheless. After all, he was a man whose word was never given lightly, whose requests were not usually disregarded. "Forgive me for coming. Perhaps, I can tell you tomorrow?" "Yes, do." She answered, almost mechanically, aware only that she must be alone. As the door closed again, Sharon 765 came in from the kitchen, her eyes bright. "Mommie," she cried, "I hope you didn't tell him you'd marry him. I thought it would be nice, but what I was going to say when that lawyer came in was that when I saw him hold your hand today I didn't like it, it didn't seem right you so young and everything. We don't need a house that much. Or money, or anything. When I saw him with his arm around you, I knew it wouldn't be right for you ever to marry him. You won't, will you, Mom?" Enid, for some unknown reason, began to laugh almost uncontrollably... In relief, in joy.... She reached out her arms to her daughter, who was taller than she was, and drew her close, "You silly little goose," she said, "of course I won't. I was afraid, though, that you wanted me to say 'yes.'" As she kissed the soft cheek, she knew that now she could tell her about the house Miss Nobbit had left them, now, when she knew that it wasn't as important to Sharon as she had feared. (To be continued ) >> HILL-TOP HOUSE Maude Blixt Trone We climbed a hill, my love and I, And built our house against the sky, So near the clouds that we could share Their wanderings down lanes of air. At night we leave our shutters wide, Believing that the world outside Will count our light another link In Luna's jewels. We like to think The valley man looks up and sees A new star in Hyades. Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for October 1946, page 685. MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS EASTERN STATES MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Left to right: Priscilla L. Evans of the Relief Society General Board; President Belle S. Spafford; Alberta O. Doxey, President, Eastern States Mission Relief Society; Roy W. Doxey, Mission President; Edith S. Elliott, member, Relief Society General Board. The photograph was taken in front of the Eastern States mission home in Philadelphia, May 4, 1946. Sister Doxey describes her appreciation and the enjoyment the members of her mission received from the visit of the General Board members: "It was indeed a pleasure for us to welcome President Spafford, Sister Edith Elliott and Sister Priscilla Evans to Philadelphia. I am sure that all who had an opportunity to be present at the Relief Society conference were delighted and pleased with the instructions they received. We are making the conference messages available to our members throughout the mission, inasmuch as there are so many who could not attend conference and who expressed regret in not having this privilege. We feel this was the next best thing to do. I was very happy that it was my privilege to be in attendance at the Palmyra meetings, and this feeling was increased when I learned that Sister Spafford and Sister Elliott were also there. I join with you in the belief that as long as our young people can bear testimony of the kind given in the missionary meeting at the Hill Cumorah, there is certainly no reason to fear for the future of the Church." Page 766 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 767 NEW ENGLAND MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Front row, left to right: Sister Edith S+ Elliott, member of the General Board of Relief Society; General President Belle S. Spafford; New England Mission Relief Society President Bertha S. Reeder. Sister Reeder submits an interesting report of the Relief Society Conference held May 12-15, 1946: "The conference was favored by the visit of Sister Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and Sister Edith Elliott, a member of the General Board. Sister Spafford was the principal speaker at the Sunday evening M. I. A. Fireside held at the New England mission home. Her talk was by nature of a travelogue in which she told of her visit to the Eastern States. "The following day, May 13th, was devoted to a Relief Society conference at which Sister Spafford and Sister Elliott gave encouragement and instructions to the Relief Society sisters of the mission. After Sister Elliott's introductory remarks, Sister Spafford stressed the duties of executive officers. She told the group to work unitedly, planning all their work together as a group. She advised each Relief Society to be wise in the expenditure of funds. She gave instructions regarding the annual report. "In the afternoon session, Sister Spafford continued her instructions, detailing the procedure advised at the visiting teachers' report meeting. Sister Elliott then outlined and defined the cultural and educational programs for the coming year. The meeting was closed with an expression of thanks from Sister Reeder to Sister Spafford and Sister Elliott for their visit, and to the members of the New England Mission Relief Societies for their faithfulness in attending the conference." CANADIAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Jessie R. Ursenbach, President of the Canadian Mission Relief Society, reports the sessions of the spring convention which were attended by the General President of Relief Society, Belle S. Spafford, and Edith S. Elliott, a member of the General Board: "On Sunday, May 19, we held three sessions of Relief Society conference at Montreal, where the women of Eastern Canada heard of the activities and accomplishments of Latter-day Saint women from the lips of their General President, and of the aims and plans for the years ahead from Sister Elliott. The newly organized Singing Mothers group, under the talented leadership of Sister Lois Draney, who officiated at the pipe organ and as conductor, rendered four very inspirational and creditable numbers. Both afternoon and evening sessions were largely attended, some women coming many 768 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1946 miles to be present, and lingering long after each session, loath to leave the inspiration there. CANADIAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE "The day in Ottawa included an afternoon session with the Relief Society women in Albion Hall. As at all the previous meetings, President Octave W. Ursenbach and Sister Jessie R. Ursenbach of the Canadian Mission were present. 'The Ottawa meeting was addressed by President Belle S. Spafford and Edith S. Elliott. Following this meet General President of Relief Society, Belle S. Spafford; Jessie R. Ursenbach, President, Canadian Mission Relief Society; Edith S. Elliott, member of the General Board of Relief Society. Photograph taken in front of the Montreal Latter-day Saint Chapel, Sunday, May 19, 1946. May 21, 1946 Extreme left, General President, Belle S. Spafford, and Jessie R. Ursenbach, President, Canadian Mission Relief Society. At extreme right, Edith S. Elliott, member of the General Board. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 769 a delightfully arranged luncheon was served by the Gleaner Girls. The tables were artistically decorated in the colors of the Relief Society gold and blue and seated at the head table were the guests of honor, Sisters Spafford, Elliott, and Ursenbach. In General remarks were made by President Octave W. Ursenbach, and President Spafford and Sister Elliott spoke. Instrumental music was provided by Sister Jessie Low and a chorus of Relief Society sisters, under the direction of Eya Stata, presented some beautiful songs." ISLE D'ORLEANS, MONTREAL, CANADA Sister Edith Elliott of the General Board of Relief Society with Canadian dogcart. 770 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1946 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, TORONTO, CANADA May 23, 1946 Standing, back of the pulpit, left to right: Edith S. Elliott, member of the General Board of Relief Society; General President Belle S. Spafford; Jessie R. Ursenbach, President, Canadian Mission Relief Society. "At Toronto, May 22, three meetings were held, with representatives from many branches from the western part of the Province in attendance. Between the morning and the afternoon sessions a lovely lunch was served by the Toronto ladies, under the direction of Mary Smith. Singing Mothers groups from Hamilton, under the direction of Doris Gange, and from Toronto, with Thelma Olsen directing, furnished fine music for all sessions. A pleasant feature of the afternoon meeting was the presentation of small gold maple leaf pins to the visitors by Jessie R. Ursenbach, who explained that the gold maple leaf was chosen so that when these pins were worn, the visiting sisters would remember the women of the Canadian Mission. The maple leaf is Canada's emblem." IVY LEA BRIDGE OVER THE ST. LAWRENCE RIVER MONTREAL, CANADA NOTES FROM THE FIELD 771 NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Ann J. Killpack, President of the North Central States Mission Relief Society, reports the spring conference which was held in Minneapolis, Minnesota, May 29th, 1946: "The officers' meeting was held at 10:30 A. M. President William L. Killpack presided, and Sister Killpack conducted and welcomed those present. Roll call showed the following in attendance: General President Belle S. Spafford; Edith S. Elliott, member of the General Board of Relief Society; Ann J. Killpack; Alice Bell, President, Minneapolis Branch, and her counselors Grace Kripps and Frances Bigelow; Louise Peterson, President of the St. Paul Branch and her first counselor, Laura Koutz; Evelyn Gansauge, First Counselor, Duluth Branch; Fern Alseth, President, Rochester Branch, with Jueille Bloser and Dorothy Peterson, members; Annie Ostvig, Monticello, Minnesota. "Reports were given of the Relief Society organizations in the various branches throughout the Mission, and President Killpack spoke briefly about the importance of the Relief Society and his experiences with this organization. Sister Elliott greeted everyone and told of their trip through Canada and Eastern United States, after which, Sister Spafford told about their trip from Salt Lake to Washington, their visit to Quebec, down the St. Lawrence, to Palmyra, the Hill Cumorah, Nauvoo, and the various landmarks of the Church. The general meeting was held at 2:00 Pp. M. With President Killpack presiding, and Sister Ann J. Killpack conducting. Sister Killpack gave a report on the fourteen organizations of the Relief Society in the North Central States Mission, five of which organizations were represented at this meeting. Sister Elliott spoke on the program of the Relief Society, explained the work, and told of what was expected of the members. She described their trip to visit Mrs. Truman, First Lady of the Land, in the White House, Washington, D. C., and their meeting with the National Council of Women." NEW ZEALAND MISSION, KORONGATA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY, MARCH 17, 1946 Front row, seated, left to tight: Kaa Tiwai; Keita Puriri; Ani R. Kamau; Kaa Tipoki, Second Counselor; Kumeroa Sarah Heke, President; Hera Puriri, First Counselor. Second row, standing, left to right: Ani Morgan; Molly Onekawa; Ani Neri: Mere Eriha; Olive Edwards; Adelaide Newton; Ruby Karipa; Matekino Wainohu; Teiti McIlroy; Hine Parahi. Back row, standing, left to right: Artemisia Heke; Winipere Edwards; Mapihi Kamau; Miria Pere; Ani L. Kamau; Reremoana Kingi; Wairukuruku Maere; Adelaide Puriri; Rebecca Crawford; Ella Hawea. 772 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1946 NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION BEND, PRINEVILLE, AND REDMOND BRANCHES (OREGON) 104th ANNIVERSARY RELIEF SOCIETY DINNER Standing at the table: second from the left, Noreen Tussing, President, Prineville Branch Relief Society; Irene Butler, President, Redmond Branch Relief Society; Dorothy Howard, President Bend Branch Relief Society. S - veil, LEME bis. "ee CALIFORNIA MISSION, SANTA BARBARA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to night: Mary Richmann; Millie Quinton; Maria Forbes; Phyllis Peers, Second Counselor; Emma Parker. Second row, left to right: Frieda Callahan; Harriet Woodley; Isabelle Eby; Dora Bradford. Third row, left to right: Ann Howell; Ella Tognazzini Done, Secretary-Treasurer; Josephine Redd Roberts, President; Darlene Wallace; Ilda Colby; Katherine Johansen. Kirst Counselor, Frances Peck, was absent, due to illness, when the photograph was taken DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 2I?More Auxiliary Organizations of the Church Started Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, February 4, 1947 Objective: To study how the Sunday School, the Mutual Improvement Association, and the Primary organizations were soon given place to aid in the Church training program for youth. THE oldest auxiliary organization in the Church in this dispensation is the Relief Society. This came into being under the direct supervision of the Prophet Joseph Smith himself. In a previous lesson this year, the development of the Relief Society was treated. Mention again of this first Church auxiliary has significance in the light of other important auxiliaries which followed. From the very beginning, Joseph Smith visioned the expanding glories. Of Zion and knew that there would need to be helps in Church government. These helps we have come to know as the Church auxiliary organizations. Of them and their importance, the late President Joseph F. Smith has said: I have in mind our auxiliary organizations; what are they? Helps to the standard organizations of the Church. They are not independent. I want to say to the Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and to the Relief Society, and to the Primaries, and to the Sunday Schools... And all the rest of the organizations in the Church, that not one of them is independent of the Priesthood of the Son of God, not any of them can exist a moment in the acceptance of the Lord when they withdraw from the voice and from the council of those who hold the Priesthood and preside over them. They are subject to the powers and authority of the Church, and they are not independent of them; nor can they exercise any rights in their organizations independently of the Priesthood and of the Church (Gospel Doctrine, page 479). Such a concept of the place of the auxiliary organizations of the Church should be readily accepted by Relief Society members. Their role as mothers and grandmothers has ever been one of helpfulness and understanding for the greater cause. No man has ever been truly great without the recognition of his mother's place in a climb to prominence. Nor is it true that his mother would ask for praise for a loving service so performed. She it is who finds her joy in having given the world a leader rather than in seeking satisfaction through words that eulogize her sacrifices. 774 In a Church sense, the auxiliary organizations do, in part, parallel a service not unlike that of a mother. They indirectly, but with effective guidance, aid in looking after the spiritual, mental, and moral welfare of Church members in their tender years. In the main, it is the youth of Zion that learns of the gospel by means of the Primary, the Sunday School, and the Mutual Improvement Associations. These attractive helps in Church government should not therefore be new in point of purpose to a Relief Society member. They can become, if supported and used, a much needed influence for guidance beyond the home. Blessings are to be gained by membership in all the auxiliaries, each one of which has purposely been planned to aid in the particular problems of an age group within the Church. In the early days of the Church, each willing worker who would thrust in his sickle found the personal joy of reaping a harvest of friends for the Lord. These could be visited often. The communion and fellowship resulting therefrom were intimate. By the time the saints had arrived in the valleys of the mountains, another phase in the development of the Church was reached. No longer could the members be looked upon as the "little flock," often so called by the Lord. Rather his people had become a modern camp of Israel, the correction and guidance of which called for organization. It was not long, therefore, until auxiliary organizations were needed to supplement the regular work of the Priesthood quorums. Three names will always be remembered in connection with the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1946 auxiliary organizations discussed in this lesson. President Brigham Young, Richard Ballantyne, and Aurelia ?. Rogers. It was to each of these leaders that the inspiration came to see the larger field for harvest, and the will to help reap the same. It should be mentioned, too, in connection with the M. I. A., that Brother Heber C. Kimball, in the early days of Nauvoo, saw the need of gathering the young people of the Church, and did so to provide instruction for them. In a sense, that forward-looking plan may be considered the early dawning of the Mutual Improvement work, though, true it is, that President Brigham Young brought our present-day auxiliary into actual being. On December 9, 1849, Richard Ballantyne gathered into his home some thirty children to start what later came to be the first Sunday School held in the Great Salt Lake Valley. Brother Ballantyne's purpose is expressed in his own words: I felt that the gospel was too precious to myself to be withheld from the children; they ought to have the privileges of gospel teaching and that was the main purpose, to teach the gospel. (Deseret Sunday School Handbook, page 8.) A year later, this Sunday School was given a permanent house in the old Fourteenth Ward meeting house with the first duly appointed superintendency under the Priesthood of God. Richard Ballantyne ? was named superintendent, with Joseph Horne and Phineas Richards, as assistants. From this humble beginning in 1849, the membership of the Sunday Schools in the Church has LESSON DEPARTMENT grown, in 1946, to 360,332 (Deseret S. S. Report, January 1, 1946). By means of the General Board, lessons and teaching aids are outlined and developed so that, today, a mighty Latter-day Saint Sunday School around the world meets each Sabbath day, sings the songs of Zion, marches to class for instruction, and voices, through prayer, the united joy of thousands of hearts. The Sunday School is one of the most important gospel-teaching organizations of the Church, and invites all, both young and old, to join its ranks. In the Thirteenth Ward of Salt Lake City, June 10, 1875, President Brigham Young organized the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. He expressed the need for this organization as follows: We want you to organize yourselves into associations for mutual improvement. Let the key-note of your work be the establishment in the youth of individual testimony of the truth and magnitude of the great latter-day work; the development of the gifts within them that have been bestowed upon them by the laying on of hands of the servants of God; cultivating a knowledge and an application of the eternal principles of the great science of life. Each member will find that happiness in this world mainly depends on the work he does, and the way in which he does it. The present leaders of the Church look to this organization to teach the young people to develop the gifts within them; to express themselves before the public, to enable them to study and practice civil, vocational, social, scientific, and educational affairs; and also to train them in all that pertains to religious, moral, social, physical, and intellectual advancement. The auxiliary organization for the 775 children of the Church found its leader in a pioneer mother whose love of the beautiful in life and concern for the well-being of little children stirred her to action. At Farmington, Utah, in 1878, Aurelia S. Rogers organized the Primary Association.. She was set apart at this time to preside over this work. For some time... Sister Aurelia S. Rogers... Had reflected upon the need of a more strict guardianship over the boys and girls of Zion. She felt the necessity for more religious and moral training than they were then receiving; believed that children should be taught to beautify the home with the workmanship of their own hands, and learn to cultivate a love for music, for flowers, and for the beautiful in all things (Essentials in Church History, Joseph Fielding Smith, page 656). Today this Association has grown in numbers to over a hundred thousand. The responsibility of the organization, as stated by its present leaders is threefold: to give weekday religious instruction to the children of the Church; to supervise and direct their leisure time activities; and to encourage proper health habits. The auxiliary organizations of the Church today reflect the practical power of the gospel. 'The desire to share the good life has been made more than a dream. Faith has made works live among the Latter-day Saints. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion 1. Explain how the Church auxiliaries have helped the missionary work of the Church. 2. Tell about some of the interesting activities which have been carried on by your local auxiliaries. 716 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1946 Visiting Teachers' Messages Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 5 Industry President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, February 4, 1947 Objective: To acquaint the women with the diligence and industry of the pioneers two of their enduring virtues. BRIGHAM YOUNG in the Journal of Discourses, Vol 11, page 247, says: My experience has taught me and it has become a principle with me, that it is never any benefit to give out and out to man or woman money, food, clothing, or anything else if they are able-bodied, and can work and earn what they need when there is anything on earth for them to do. This is my principle and I try to act upon it. To pursue a contrary course would ruin any community in the world and make them idlers. Surrounded by nothing but wild and barren nature, and thrown upon their own resources, the pioneer women had to be industrious and invent ways and means of carrying on their share of the work. They spun and wove, and made their clothing and hats. They made their own brooms, candles, soap, and other household articles. They not only prepared the food, but they helped to produce it. They even helped to build their homes, as well as to raise the crops, and at the same time they reared large families. The writers own mother, when preparing her wedding dress, cleaned and washed the wool, carded it into rolls, spun the rolls into yarn, dyed the yarn in two shades with dyes she herself had manufactured, and wove this yarn into plaid cloth. She then cut the cloth by patterns she herself had fashioned, and completed what was truly a_ beautiful dress. Like many other women, she not only wove cloth for dresses and for men's suits, but she made shawls, bedspreads, and blankets. Old, worn, wagon covers, which had been made of "factory" in Nauvoo, were salvaged and made into men's shirts and other articles of clothing. Hats were made of straw which was bleached with sulphur found in the mountains. 'The straw was made into braids which were sewn together, then fashioned into hats by shaping on blocks, and pressing. The hats were then adorned with homemade trimming. It was the industry of the pioneers, who adopted the beehive as a symbol of industry for the Territory, which provided the means of sustaining life itself as well as supplying, in later years, many of life's comforts. Industry, as an integral part of the character of Latter-day Saints, is essential for the fulfilment of the prophecy of the Prophet Joseph Smith that the saints would become a great and mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. . LESSON DEPARTMENT 777 Work Meeting Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 5?Pinning, Basting, Pressing, Edges and Seam Finishings Work Meeting Committee, Velma N. Simonsen, Chairman For Tuesday, February 11, 1947 Objective: To assemble the garment, pin, fit, and baste. Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapters 12 and 13. INNING and basting are valuable aids in sewing. When a seam is pinned for stitching, the pins should be placed close together and set in from the edge, so they can be removed as you stitch. Put the pins in at right angles to the seam, pushing them in lightly from the edges. This will make a straight line guide for your basting, and will also keep the pins from pricking your fingers. When you start to baste your garment, first look to see how your pattern controls the curved lines. This means that you first prepare and then carefully pin in the darts, tucks, or gathers, then baste them, and try on the garment before stitching. Bastings are simply temporary joinings. They hold the pieces of fabric together for a fitting and they hold the seams together while you stitch. Fitting Too much fitting may not only distort the design, but may also take away the smartness, resulting in an uncomfortable, pinched - looking garment. Very little fitting should be necessary if the following points are emphasized:: 1. Take your measurements correctly. 2. Purchase the pattern in the correct size and, if alteration is necessary, do it carefully. Prepare the fabric and lay out the pattern pieces according to the instructions.. Cut and mark the garment carefully. Pin, baste, and assemble the pieces with precision. Pressing Good pressing equipment and careful handling of your garment are important. Press as you sew, is the first rule to follow. Press each seam and detail of a garment as it is finished, and before joining it to another part. This will help to make the final pressing much easier, and the finished model will be more professional looking. Pressing seams, using a sleeve-board and a tailors' cushion. Pressing woolens, steaming or pressing velvet, or other pile fabrics, are all arts of importance in sewing. Pressing is not difficult. The difficulty lies in. The fact that the average person does not realize the importance of pressing. Finishing Edges and Seams Edges and seams finished properly are a great asset to any garment. Edges may be overcast, pinked, bound, turned under and sewed with a running stitch, by machine or by hand, close to the turned edge, etc. Seam finishings may be French, felled French, hem felled, lapped, tucked, catch stitched, fagoted, hemstitched, or finished in any one of a variety of other ways, according to the requirements of the material and the time available for the seamstress. Assignment for March: Bring the garment you are making and the trimmings to be used. Of literature America as Revealed in Its Literature Lesson 5 Westward March of America Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, February 18, 1947 OMEONE has said, "In the making of the West, America was made." There is much of basic truth in this statement. At the close of our war for freedom, one main way was open for Americans. 'That was the open spaces of the West. Free land was there opportunity for expansion, for development. In taking the challenge, the realm was populated and more than this, a distinctive American character was developed. Intrepid pathfinders led the way. These were followed by missionaries and home builders. It was a mighty march westward of youthful spirits. Men, rather naturally, are given first place in this bold adventure. Yet women hold high place in the constructive conquest of our western realm, even from the very first. Recall here the young red mother who piloted Lewis and Clark across half our continent. Like Pocahantas, whose friendliness and human understanding did so much to save the first struggling Virginians from disaster, the "Bird Woman" added the needed guidance and practical help that brought success to the exploring captains. Her story brightens that great adventure. A Shoshone girl, stolen by the Blackfeet, she had been taken down the twisting Missouri for nearly a thousand miles, and sold into slavery. Later on, she became the wife of a French trader. Just after her first babe, whom they named Baptiste, was born, Lewis and Clark came to winter in the land of the Mandans where she lived. Learning that this Shoshone girl for she was only sixteen knew the way across the "shining mountains," they hired her husband as guide. He knew nothing of the route farther West, but his intelligent young wife did. Edna Dean Proctor, whose poems vibrate with the spirit of America, created a lyric to the "Bird Woman" ?from which the following lines are taken: Sho-sho-ne Sa-ca-ga-we-a ? captive and wife was she On the grassy plains of Dakota in the land of the Minnetaree: But she heard the west wind calling, and longed to follow the sun Back to the shining mountains and the glens where her life begun. So, when the valiant Captains, fain for the Asian sea, 778 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1946, LESSON DEPARTMENT Stayed their marvelous journey in the land of the Minnetaree... Glad she turned from the grassy plains and led their way to the West, Her course as true as the swan's that flew north to its reedy nest. Ee ee Straight she was as a hillside fir, lithe as the willow-tree, And her foot as fleet as the antelope's when the hunter rides the lea; In broidered tunic and moccasins, with braided raven hair, And closely belted buffalo robe, with her baby nestling there. Zee %e & To Missouri's broad savannas dark with bison and deer, While the grizzly roamed the savage shore and cougar and wolf prowled near; To the cataract's leap, and the meadows with lily and rose abloom; The sunless trails of the forest, and the canyon's hush and gloom; There, by the valiant Captains whose glory will never dim, While the sun goes down to the Asian sea and the stars in ether swim, She will stand in bronze and richly brown as the hue of her girlish cheek, With broidered robe and braided hair and lips just curved to speak; And the mountain winds will murmur as they linger along the crest, "Sho-sho-ne Sa-ca-ga-we-a, who led the way to the West!" Latter-day Saints generally may not know how closely the story of our pioneering is linked with this fine Indian mother. When she did rejoin her own people near what is now Armstead, Montana, the happy reunion was saddened with the word that her father and mother and a sister had passed away during her years of captivity. "Where is my sister's baby boy?" she asked. An Indian lad was brought to her. Gathering him in her arms, she adopted him for her own. Basil, as he was called, grew through the years to become finally a sub-chieftain of 779 the Shoshones under Washakie; and, like his leader, he was an unfailing friend of the Mormon people. According to Dr. Grace Raymond Hebard, who wrote a scholarly biography of Sacajawea, Basil was probably one of sixty-five Indians who were baptized into the Latter-day Saint faith at Fort Lemhi in the 1850's. According to Dr. Hebard also, the "Bird Woman," tiring of her French husband's cruelty and neglect, finally left him and found her people in Wyoming, where she spent her last days, exercising, with Washakie and Basil, her influence for peace and uplift. Another Indian heroine who played a stirring role in the westward march of America, was the wife of Pierre Dorion, the French guide of the Astorians. With two little sons, she made the man-testing journey from St. Louis to the Pacific. On the way another child was born to her, but it lived only a week or so. Later, when her husband and other trappers fell victims on the Boise River to red enemies, this devoted mother, escaping the massacre, fled with her boys to the foothills of the Blue Mountains. There, slaying the one horse she had, using its hide to help shelter them against the winter storms, and its meat to keep them alive, she waited until spring opened the passes. Finally, she crossed the range and found succor for herself and her boys with a friendly tribe. It was there that Alexander Ross, a British fur trader, found the courageous Mrs. Dorion. To him we are indebted for this story of mother courage and devotion; for he recorded it as she told it humbly to him. It is also told by Washington Irving in his Astoria, a literary history of high quality. Lure of furs was an impelling force that helped to chart the West. - Intrepid men, of the spirit of Jim Bridger, Peter Skeen Ogden, Jedediah Strong Smith, led in mapping ? the vast region between the Rocky Mountains and the Pacific. Their purpose was to garner a wealth of furs; and this they did. -Yet beyond this they performed signal service in charting the unknown realm for the oncoming pioneers. Names of these heroic "mountain men," as they were called, still cling to streams, lakes and ranges of the West. Religion played its vital part in the lives of some of these fur seekers of the West. This is especially true of Jedediah Strong Smith? sometimes called the Puritan Pathfinder. He went into the wilds, it is said, carrying his Bible in one hand, his rifle in the other. It was he who first led a band of white men from the Salt Lake Valley into Southern California; and later, with two companions, dared to cross the Great American Desert eastward from the Sierras to what is now Central Utah. Indians later told our pioneers how these three white men, with only one. Horse, staggered into their camp at the south end of the Salt Lake. Six other animals with which they had left California perished in the desert. One notable result came of their adventure: it gave proof that this "Inland Sea" was not, as Jim Bnidger, its white discoverer, had first thought, an arm of the ocean. Another venture by white men half a century before Bridger and Smith had penetrated it, was made by Fathers Escalante and Dominguez. Seeking, with the help of Indian guides, a way from Santa Fe, New Mexico, to Monterey, California, they came as far as the site of Provo; then, baffled in their quest, they prayed, drew lots, and finally returned to their mission home in New Mexico. They had charted, however, in part, what was called by the Spaniards, the land of the Northern Mystery. Still another intriguing story connected with the opening of the West is that of the quest of the Indians for the white man's "Book of Heaven." Through Jedediah Strong Smith, or some other God-fearing mountain man, they had learned about the Bible and wanted more of its uplifting stories. About the same year that the first Mormon missionaries were on their way to preach the gospel to the Lamanites on our western frontier, four chieftains of the Nez Perce and Spokane tribes came down the Missouri to St. Louis. There they were welcomed by General Clark, then Indian agent for the vast Missouri Territory. Their request for the "Book of Heaven" was not, at first, satisfied. Though the white folk gave them food and lodging and kindly treatment, the Indians did not get the spiritual message for which they had made the long journey. Two of the chiefs the older ones passed away while they waited; and were laid to rest in the frontier town. The next spring, with heavy hearts, the other two turned homeward. On leaving, one of them is reported to have said, in effect: You have so loaded us with gifts that our moccasins are heavy. But the light we 780 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT desired to take back to our people has not been given to us. We must still sit in darkness, Their plea did not fall: on deaf cars. Some devoted Christians finally heard and heeded it. From one of these, Jason Lee, came action. With his nephew, Daniel Lee, and another minister of the Methodist faith, he went westward with the fur seekers, and finally arrived at the Columbia in Oregon. There, missions were established; and the work of leading the red men into the light was begun. It yielded little so far as conversion of the Indians was concerned; but out of it came another fruitage the encouragement of American settlement of Oregon. Another response, with something of romance, came, in 1836, when two youthful missionaries, with their brides, took a long honeymoon trip into the far Northwest. These were Dr. Marcus Whitman and Henry H. Spalding. To their wives, Narcissa Prentiss Whitman and Eliza Hart Spalding, belongs the honor of being the first white women to cross our continent. At its crest, it is said, they dismounted from their horses, set up an American flag, and kneeling down with their husbands, dedicated the West to God and home. These were to become the first white mothers in regions that later became the states of Washington and Idaho. To one of them, Narcissa Whitman, came, in 1847, the crown of martyrdom. With her stalwart husband, she fell victim to Indian savagery this, after they had _ established and maintained, through eleven years, a home that was at once a school, a place of worship, and of culture, and a center of 781 industry. Further, the Whitman Mission, now in process of restoration as a national shrine, was a haven of refuge for pioneers who came there weary and sick and needy on their last lap of the journey to old Oregon.. In We Must March, a stirring novel by Honore Willsie Morrow, we have the story, here sketched, graphically portrayed. Some question a few of the facts woven into it as not quite true to history; but it certainly is true to the spirit and lives of two courageous, devoted Americans. In Whitman an Unfinished Story by Dr. Penrose, President Emeritus of Whitman College, we have an historical presentation of the tale of devotion and sacrifice. Through the 1820's and the 1830's, the great West was largely charted, and missionaries gained a foothold in its wilds. Yet would the vast domain ever be brought under the Stars and Stripes? Could its mountain valleys, its deserts, ever be settled? Statesmen of vision, such as Daniel Webster, were ready to throw even old Oregon, to which, by discovery and exploration, America had first right, away to other nations. Of what use was that far-flung frontier to our country, anyway? An unmistakable answer came, in 1843, when a handful of American settlers in Oregon, with spirit like that of their Pilgrim and Virginia forebears, established a free government there under our flag. That same year a second clear answer rang out when one thousand men, women, and children, under heroic leadership and guidance, rolled over the Blue Mountains in their covered 782 wagons to a new homeland in the far West. Our East was settled largely by means of the waterways; our West by the wagonways. Praise should go to the humble ox teams which, patiently drawing homes on wheels, took mothers into the valleys of the mountains. Without these homemakers, the West never could have been peaceably conquered. Transcendent among those who made this constructive conquest were the home-seeking Latter-day Saints. By the time this particular lesson is being studied and taught, all our people, indeed all the world, will be at the beginning of the Centennial commemoration of the epic making march of the pioneer vanguard into a mountain-guarded realm. A theme is here for song and oration, story and drama, that will echo down the ages. Already much literature of true merit has been created portraying the heart and spirit of our pioneers the redeemers of the desert. Of all that yet has come, nothing surpasses in sweet simplicity and Bible-like fervor the splendid hymn that cheered their westward march "Come, Come, Ye Saints." In this song is the quintessence of true religion. Its first stanza is a vibrant note of joy and cheer, its second, a sweet expression of hope and trust in God; its third, a joyous look ahead to a peaceful happy homeland; its last a high note of true courage even to meeting death happily and triumphantly winning in the end. Daniel Stevens, a Nebraska leader who fell into possession of the site of the "Liberty Pole Camp" on the Elkhom River, where President RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1946 Young organized the pioneer vanguard, was deeply impressed with the story of our home-seeking saints, and often told it to friends. "How in the world could those people stand the hardships and dangers?" he was once asked by an earnest listener. "Well, they thought that God was marching right by their side," was his reply; "and I am not so sure but that they were right." Discussion and Activities 1. Be prepared to give a one-minute explanation of any one of these topics: (a) Four lures that led Americans westward. (b) Stars added to our flag through the Louisiana Purchase. (c) Lewis and Clark and the "Bird Woman their service to America. (d) "White Man's Book of Heaven" and outcome of the quest for the book. (e) Service and sacrifice of Marcus and Narcissa Whitman. (f) Story, in brief, of one of these mountain men: Jedediah Strong Smith, Jim Bridger, Peter Skeen Ogden. (Note: To bring reports within time limit, write the one chosen.) 2. Be prepared with a four-minute review of any one of the following novels: We Must March by Morrow; Covered Wagon by Hough; The Land Is Bright by Binns. 3. Read carefully each of the stanzas of "Come, Come, Ye Saints." Be ready to join with the class in an appreciative analysis of the hymn; and afterwards in singing it. 4. In what vital way is the epic of the Mormon pioneers linked with the story of the pioneering of each of the following states: Iowa, Nebraska, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, California, Nevada, Wyoming, Idaho, Utah? (Give very brief answers References Binns: The Land is Bright. Driggs - Lippincott: Westward America. Hebard, Dr. Grace Raymond: Sacajawea, Arthur W. Clark Co. Hough: Covered Wagon. Irving, Washington: Astoria. LESSON DEPARTMENT Miller, Joaquin: Overland in a Covered Wagon, Appleton-Century. Morrow, Honore Willsie: We Must March. Russell and Driggs: Hidden Heroes of the Rockies, World Book Co. 783 Stevenson: Poems of American History, Houghton Mifflin Co. White, Stewart E.: The Long Rifle. Caine, Julia Alleman: "A Bride Goes West," (Narcissa Whitman), Relief Society Magazine, February 1944, page 91. Optional lessons in' Lieu of Literature The Gospel as a Way of Life Lesson 5?Baptism Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, February 18, 1947 GOME years ago in one of the mission fields of the Church, two missionaries were invited to an open house held in honor of a member of the branch on his eighty-sixth birthday. The following Sunday was fast Sunday and, during the testimony bearing period, this aged individual arose and commenced to speak. He started his remarks by expressing thanks for his membership in the Church, and especially that during the past week he had celebrated his forty-first birthday. The two missionaries, upon hearing this, looked questioningly at each other. He had distinctly mentioned his forty-first birthday, yet they were well aware that at the open house it had been stated that it was the occasion of his eighty-sixth birthday. One thing, however, they did not know. During that same week he had also celebrated another anniversary that meant more to him than his birthday. It was the forty-first anniversary of his baptism into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The first impression of the missionaries, who were not acquainted with this fact, was that the elderly gentleman was suffering from a lapse of memory. Upon hearing his testimony, however, they learned a vital lesson. This man had lived a worldly, irreligious life during the first forty-five years of his existence. He had profaned constantly as a matter of habit, gambled, caroused, and been cruel to his children and inconsiderate of his wife. Then one day some missionaries brought tracts to his home. He invited them back to spend an evening, intending to embarrass them with the questions he had so effectively used to silence ministers of the gospel who had formerly tried to persuade him to profess Christianity. The result was the opposite. He saw religion in a new light, and, two days after his forty-fifth birthday, he accepted the restored Gospel through the waters of baptism. To him this ordinance of baptism had real significance. He had developed faith in God and in the saving powers of the atonement of Jesus Christ. When he saw the worth of the real Christian message, he repented of his external, sinful acts, and prayed for God to forgive him for his former transgressions. He strove to control his temper which formerly had overcome his better judgment at the slightest provocation. He learned that the real Christian should Jove children, and so his cruelty toward his off. Spring was transformed into a fatherly love for the souls that God had entrusted to his care. His wife found that his former inconsiderate conduct was turned into love and devotion. In short, he was a changed man. He had been really "born again." He did not want to remember his former life. It was something from which he had repented and he wanted it obliterated. When he entered the waters of baptism he did it to literally have his sins washed away. When he came up out of the watery grave, his old self had been buried, and he was a new man coming forth to a new life. The first forty-five years didn't count. They had been buried. This man had caught the spirit and meaning of truly being "born again." Is it any wonder that he was so grateful for his acceptance of the gospel that he counted time only from his entrance into the Church, although his children still celebrated the date of his physical birth into mortality? The true narration related above contains within it the basic elements of the doctrine of baptism, as taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The ordinance of baptism logically follows the Principles of faith in God and repentance from sin. Without these two Preparatory steps, baptism would be ineffective. Great stress is laid upon this ordinance because it carries with it, if the candidate has first been Properly prepared, the remission of sins. This gift is priceless, and those who have passed through the waters of baptism, fully aware of this promised release from sins formerly committed, have emerged into a newness of life that cannot be described by words. Remission of sins, however, is but one of the purposes of baptism. Another purpose is to Provide an opportunity for the repentant sinner to show obedience to the commandments of Jesus, Perhaps mortals may never know just why baptism by immersion in water was instituted as such, instead of some other type of ordinance. It is a symbol of dying and resurrection, and of a new birth, but other symbolic ordinances might have been found instead of this one. We observe it as an ordinance, because we have been commanded to, whether we fully understand its purpose or not. Its acceptance becomes one of the manifestations of our faith in God and in Christ. Jesus himself, although not in need of a remission of sins, Presented himself to John the Baptist, stating that such a step was necessary in order to comply with the righteous requirements of God (Matt. 3:13-15). Another purpose of baptism is to afford each person an opportunity to make a covenant with God that he is desirous of taking the name of Christ upon him. This covenant becomes a sacred obligation and a powerful reminder of the obligation to serve the cause of Christ. One who has conscientiously entered into 784 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT waters of baptism, aware of this sacred opportunity, finds beauty and thrilling spiritual joys in later life. A covenant with God and Christ becomes a stimulus to live better and more nobly than before, and serves as a shield against the temptations of the world. By no means the least important part of baptism is the opportunity afforded to gain entrance to the Church. We believe that the Church is really the kingdom of God upon earth, which, in time, will be joined with the kingdom of heaven as the kingdom of God. To be a member of this choice group, to be strengthened by the fine Christian lives of its members, and to be partakers of the fine spiritual fellowship the Church affords, are the blessings that come as a consequence of admittance into the Church. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints teaches that it is not only necessary to observe the true form of complete immersion, but that divine authority is equally necessary. In revelations given to the Church in this day, the power to baptize is limited to certain offices in the Priesthood (see Doc. And Cov. 20:38-s9 and section 13). In determining the fitness of candidates for baptism into the Church, the scriptures present us with some very positive guides. First of all, the person must have reached the years of accountability before God and be capable of repentance (see Doc. And Cov. 20:71). The Lord has said: All those who humble themselves before God, and desire to be baptized, and come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and witness before the Church that they have truly repented of 785 all their sins, and are willing to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, having a determination to serve him to the end, and truly manifest by their works that they have received of the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins, shall be received by baptism into his Church (Doc. And Cov. 20:37). The Book of Mormon contains what is perhaps the best statement to be found in all scripture concerning the responsibilities of those who accept baptism.... And now, as ye are desirous to come into the fold of God, and to be called his people, and are willing to bear one another's burdens, that they may be light; Yea, and are willing to mourn with those that mourn; yea, and comfort those that stand in need of comfort, and to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places that ye may be in, even until death, that ye may be redeemed of God, and be numbered with those of the first resurrection, that ye may have eternal life Now I say unto you, if this be the desire of your hearts, what have you against being baptized in the name of the Lord, as a witness before him that ye have entered into a covenant with him, that ye will serve him and keep his commandments, that he may pour out his Spirit more abundantly upon you? (Mosiah 18:8-10.) Discussion and Activity Problems 1. Discuss the full significance that is implied in the expression, "Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God" (John 3:3). 2. Name four purposes that the ordinance of baptism accomplishes. 3. What rules should we apply in determining the fitness of a candidate for baptism, in accordance with the standard established in Doc. And Cov. 20:71? 4. Discuss the implications of the duties listed by Alma in Mosiah 18:8-10. 5. Members of the class who have joined the Church in their adult years should be urged to relate their own feelings toward baptism, during the discussion period. References: Hunter, Milton R.: The Gospel Through the Ages, pp. 192-206. Smith, President Joseph F: Gospel Doctrine, pp. 118-126. Talmage, James E: Articles of Faith, pp. 120-134. Talmage, James E: Vitality of Mormonism, pp. 86-89, 93"95- Widtsoe, John A: A Rational Theology, pp. 111-117. Young, President Brigham: Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 245-248; 1941 Ed., pp. 158-160. Social Science The Family in the Gospel Plan Lesson 4 Observing a Principle of Prosperity Social Science Committee, Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman For Tuesday, February 25, 1947 "The earth is full and there is enough and to spare." Our Heavenly Father has provided well for his children upon the earth. The things which are necessary for our well-being have been placed here in abundance, and we can all enjoy the good things of the earth if we practice certain proved principles. Sound economics are essential with individuals as well as families if they are to enjoy prosperity. The Value of Work FORTUNATE are those children who learn early in life the satisfaction that comes from work well done. Young people should learn that they must work for what they get in life whether it be knowledge or material things. "By the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat bread" was one of the first commandments given to man. The Creator knew that work is essential for the welfare of the human race. Latter-day Saints have always been taught to labor and to be industrious. The Prophet Joseph Smith once remarked: "There is no place for an idler in the Church except that he repent and mend his ways" (See Doc. And Cov. 75:29). A great injustice is done to the youth who is deprived of the privilege of learning to work. Parents who impose no duties upon children make it difficult for them to compete later on with those who have learned, in their early years, to work. Habits of industry will stay with the individual throughout his entire life. It is often simpler to hire work done or to do it oneself than to have a child do the work. But, by following the easier way, a child's training is neglected. A wise mother insists that her daughter help prepare the evening meal, even though she knows it would be easier for her to do it than to train her daughter. While this training takes time and patience, nevertheless, it is the mother's responsibility. Art of Saving One of the most valuable habits children can acquire is the habit of saving. It is essential to a successful life. Saving seems to be a knack with some people, but it requires 'practice, as does any other habit. Saving means putting aside a portion of one's earnings systematically, no matter how small the amount. The amount saved is governed by the spending, as well as the earnings. The important thing is for a 786 References Through the Ages, pp. 192-206. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1946 _ Talmage, James E: Vitality of Mormon A Rational The LESSON DEPARTMENT family to decide that they will consistently save and put something away for a future day. The time to begin is now today, with whatever amount can be spared. In order to save regularly, there must be a plan that the whole family will agree to. Some part of the earnings must be set aside at pay periods. Extra money that is earned should be added to the savings account. If the small items are watched, such as money spent on shoe shines, movies, candy bars, magazines, and other incidentals, it will be surprising how fast the balance accumulates. In some families children are given money for birthday gifts. This money is added to ' their individual savings account each year. Over a period of years, this amount will grow to a considerable sum. Satisfaction will come to the entire family if they see 4 savings account growing as a result of united effort. Later in life this money can be used to very good advantage? for missions, college education, 4 new car, vacations, Of perhaps to meet unforeseen emergencies. Waste and Extravagance As a nation we are extravagant and wasteful. Waste is sinful and contrary to Latter-day Saint beliefs, both for the conduct of our individual lives and likewise of our government. It has been said that "Investigation will place at the head of causes of poverty, wastefulness inherited from wasteful parents." This '5 a serious indictment to parents who should always set an example of thrift and economy. The average American family, we ate told, wastes as much food each meal as is 787 consumed by family. The American garbage can is a national disgrace. An officer of one of our large cities recently made a survey to see how much food was being wasted. His survey of discarded food in cans in the better sections of town, as well as in the poorer sections, revealed in both instances that great quantities of food were being wasted slices of bread, scraps of meat, vegetables, and various other items being thrown away. Our wasteful habits must be corrected, particularly at this time, when millions of people in the world are going hungry. It is often the case that families with limited incomes use Poor judgment in buying. Especially ls this true of food buying. Prepared foods, pastries, and knickknacks are often in economical purchases. Welfare food agencies are constantly besieged for prepared cereals which are considerably more expensive, and often less nutritious, than cooked cereals. This is but one example. There are also millions of dollars worth of half-worn clothing hanging in the closets of American homes. This is a wanton extravagance when it is realized that minor alterations in style and renovating could give the clothing utility. A European peasant Wise Spending and Living Within One's Means The prosperity of a family de pends to a large extent on the way the income is spent. Unwise spending is the cause of much embarrassment and anxiety and causes family disunity. It is just as necessary to know how to spend as it is to know how to save. "We save carefully that we may spend wisely." Money wisely spent brings joy and happiness. "He who both saves and spends money is the happiest man because he has both enjoyments" (Boswell, James: Life of Dr. Johnson). Knowing how to use money, how to buy, what to buy, and when to buy is very important. One of the grave dangers facing many of our young people today is their inability to handle money. They do not know the value of a dollar because parents in too many cases have not trained them in the wise use Of money. Wages have been high and "easy come easy go," is a homely but true adage. Newly married couples can undermine a happy marital existence through unwise spending on the part of either. In these days of rapidly increasing costs, more attention must be given to budgeting; and young married people, particularly, should know how to budget their funds. It should be understood that the purpose of a budget is to enable one to tell money where to go instead of asking where it went. We are coming into an era of installment buying on a scale surpassing any hitherto known. Easy-payment plans and high-pressure salesmanship have been the cause of much financial unhappiness. Since this is an age of high-pressure methods, people trained in the art of selling appeal to the public through clever advertising over the air, in the newspapers and magazines. More than ever sales resistance is a prerequisite to the successful handling of family finances. Much trouble and financial difficulties come to families living beyond their income and to those who think only of the present. We are continually being admonished by our Church leaders to live within our income, and to avoid debt. In Gospel Standards, President Grant wrote: There is a peace and contentment that comes into the heart when we live within our means. Families should counsel together concerning finances, and children should know what the family can and cannot afford. Parents should not bicker over money matters, especially before children. They should set a policy, have an understanding, and stay with it. Parents often overindulge their children, even to the extent of going without necessities themselves and going into debt. Young people are intelligent and sensible and they will be willing to do what is right, if the matter is presented to them fairly. Children may be put on an allowance, allowing them to buy their own clothes. It is necessary, then, to see that they live within their allowance and pay for their entertainment and other items of expense as well. Wife's Part in Money Matters The wife should have an active interest in the finances of the family. Too often she is not interested, thinking that it is the husband's responsibility alone. Many wives and mothers have found them- ? selves widows with little or no knowledge of the simplest family finances which is cruel, costly and often disastrous. Financially inexperienced widows are often the victims of unscrupulous salesmen. 788 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT A banker once said: If husbands would counsel with their wives before making investments and buying stocks, many financial losses would be averted. Women's natural intuition seems to make her discerning and cautious. A middle aged woman who never married because she felt it her duty to stay at home and assist her family recently said: H father had listened to mother and hadn't bought that worthless stock, things would have been different for us. We never received a cent from the worthless investment and had to mortgage the home and let some of the land go. Serious consideration should be given before signing on the dotted ne. One wise woman used to say that she never made an important decision until she had "slept on it." Tithing and Fast Offerings Tithing is fundamental in any consideration of prosperity in the family. Every individual in the Church should feel it a privilege to be a tithe payer. No family can afford to deny themselves the blessings, both temporal and spiritual, that come from being honest tithe payers. Our children should be made to realize that they are indebted to their Heavenly Father for everything, and that he expects little in return only one tenth. Many people not of our faith pay one tenth of their income to their church or some organization where it will be used for the relief of the poor and needy. They feel this is one way they can discharge their social obligations to mankind. Latter-day Saint children should be proud to feel that they have con- 4 789 tributed to the kingdom of God on earth. They should be reminded that the tithing they pay, small as the amount may be, has helped to build chapels, temples, helped to support the religious educational program of the Church, the missionary system, and helped to maintain all other Church expenses. As we sit. In our comfortable meeting houses, Sunday after Sunday, where we come to worship, we should receive satisfaction in knowing that our contributions have helped to build, as well as maintain these houses. Imagine a father standing with his sons after the crops have been harvested, saying: "Well, boys, it is a joy to return one tenth to the Lord." Parents can direct their children to go to the bishop and pay their tithing on small amounts of money they have received. This will be of great value to the young boy or girl. Our children will need to keep account. Of what they have earned to know exactly how much they owe to the Lord. This will teach budgeting and encourage frugal habits of spending. Lessons in honesty will be learned. The boy who pays tithing is not likely to waste his time and money in games of chance and gambling. The Lord has made some startling promises to those who observe this law. Bring ye all the tithes unto the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open to you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it (Malachi 3:10). The fast offering is a wise and equitable way of taking care of the poor and needy. It is the financial basis of the great Welfare Plan. This free-will offering given to the bishop brings blessings to those who give as well as to those who receive. Through fasting, the physical body is brought into subjection to the spiritual body. Self-discipline is necessary in the lives of all for development. If parents will teach their children to fast, to give fast offerings, and to attend the fast meetings, they will be rewarded by having the faith of their children strengthened. The ability to save, which is the final proof of frugality and the foundation of prosperity in the family, is acquired through the payment of tithes and offerings. Observance of this command demands thoughtful management of family finances, and the by-products of such planning are the basis of prosperity. "The earth is full and there is enough and to spare." Questions for Discussion 1, Why is work a blessing to mankind? 2. What are the advantages of husband and wife counseling together on family finances? 3. How can parents best teach their children to pay tithing? 4. In your experience, do tithe payers usually prosper in a temporal way? 5. How can a family plan their budget so they can have the things they desire? References Smith, President Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, "Marriage, the Home and Family," PP. 374-375:; Discourses of Brigham Young, XV, "Tithing," pp. 269-281; 1941 edition, pp. 174-181. Deseret News, "Church Section," April 27, 1946, "Tithing" ward teacher's message. OLD LEAVES Beatrice K. Ekman The leaves from the sycamores, warped and dry, Blow over the roof as the wind rides by, And over the smooth paved city street, In rustling rows, advance and retreat. The voice of the wind sounds high and thin, As into the gutters the brown leaves spin, Bruised and broken and drenched with rain? To be dust when the trees are green again. -MAGAZINE BINDERS NOW AVAILABLE Magazine binders, into which 12 single copies of The Relief Society Magazine may be inserted or removed at will, are once mare available. These binders are a great convenience to all stake and ward Relief Society officers and class leaders, and to all Magazine subscribers who wish to keep a current year's issues of the Magazine together. These binders may be obtained at the office of the General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, at $1.20 postpaid. * 790 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1946 tt g there is anything calculated to interest the mind of the Saints, to awaken in them the finest sensibilities, and arouse them to enterprise and exertion, surely it is the great and precious promises made by our Heavenly Father to the children of Abraham."? ?*'Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith,'' page 163. Between the covers of this book is the story of our Father Abraham's Children and of God's "precious promises" to them. Have you read it? Here is a chart of the beginning of your pedigree?24 generations from Adam to Ephraim. It is complete with dates and references. THE AUTHOR, James H. Anderson, was an outstanding student of scripture and history. He has written about YOUR RACIAL FAMILY and birthright. This beautifully bound book and chart will pleasantly surprise you. For your own library or for a friend you want to please at Christmas time send in your order today. (CUT HERE AND MAIL TODAY) EARL W. HARMER, Publisher 945 So. 7th East, Salt Lake City 4, Utah Please send postpaid the books checked below: O GOD'S COVENANT RACE ee-$2.00 By James H. Anderson (0 THE STORY OF THE MORMON PIONEERS $2.00 By Mabel Harmer CU *FAMOUS MASCOTS AND K-9's $2.00 y Mabel Harmer DENNIS AND THE MORMON BATTALION $2.00 Written expressly for young people. Check or money order enclosed OO Send C. O. D. Name Address Your Order Will Receive Prompt Attention For Happier, More Successful FAMILY LIFE FAMILY ETERNAL, by Roy A. West, points out new horizons for every family. Here are a few of many vital topics: A Spiritual Interpretation Choosing Friends Seeking a Companion Harmonizing Two Personalities Composition of the Mormon Family Guiding the Formation of Attitudes Enjoying Our Home ? Sustaining Influence of the home FAMILY ETERNAL is a reference book for Relief Society "Social Science'' lessons. For yourself or for a friend, send in your order now by postal card, telephone, or in person. BOOKCRAFT 1186 South Main Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone 7-7911 BOOKS Few other gifts carry with them the satisfaction that attends the giving and receiving of a good book. For any L. D. S. BOOK Write EZRA L. MARLER Books by Mail P. O. Box 267 Salt Lake City, Utah STANDARD PRICES Prompt, Personal Service Promised Keep a price list of L. D. S. Books handy in your home. It's yours for the asking should always be the result when energy is expended. Yet, like a dizzily spinning top. Many businesses go 'round in the preparation of advertising and get nowhere. Month after month, the same thing happens again and again and nothing is accomplished by the expenditure of dollars that could be made to produce results. The function of a printing organization today is to help clients to plan printing that builds sales to take copy and dramatize it, make it so irresistibly attractive that it must naturally draw the reader's attention. The waste of which we speak is often due to lack of understanding. Realization of this has made us sales minded. Your selling problem, and our experience puts us in a position to print your sales story so that it will get results. THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah Page 792 There's a NATIONAL Bible to meet every Bible need For all ages and all purposes, there are no finer Bibles than those which bear the National imprint. Publishers of the authorized King James Version only. National BibLes SINCE 1863 AT YOUR BOOKSTORE MUSIC Specially Suitable for Relief Society MY REDEEMER LIVES (Gates)._..18 I WILL EXALT THEE, O LORD (Harris) AS O LORD MOST HOLY (Franck) 15 HOLY REDEEMER (Marchelli)...15 PEACE I LEAVE WITH 'YOU 23RD PSALM (Schubert). Ae) |S) IN THY FORM (Madsen) - 10 Above numbers in octavo. S. S. A. Postage additional. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines. Records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage BOOKS You'll Need for Reference Upon the following titles are based many important parts of the 1946-47 Relief Society Lesson Course: "THE GOSPEL KINGDOM" from discourses and writings of President John Taylor "THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES" Milton R. Hunter..........._. $1.30 "GOSPEL DOCTRINE" President Joseph F, Smith $2.50 "TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH" $2 5 "THE WAY TO PERFECT $1.50 $2.50 $2.25 $2.25 TION" Joseph Fielding Smith.. Cose DISCOURSES OF WILFORD WOODRUFF "GOSPEL STANDARDS" President Heber J. Grant DESERET BOOK COMPANY THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST 44 East South Temple P. O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10, Utah "BRIGHAM YOUNG, THE MAN AND HIS "a Preston Nibley "ESSENTIALS IN CHURCH HISTORY" Joseph Fielding Smith "ARTICLES OF FAITH" James E. Talmage "EVIDENCES AND REC OMS TIONS" John A. Widtsoe.............-.. "DISCOURSES OF BRIGHAM YOUNG" "RESTORATION OF ALL THINGS" Joseph Fielding Smith $2.50 $2.00 $1.25 91.85 $2.50 51.75 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine (Roberts) __........ 45-47 S. Main St. Joseph Fielding Smith... Enclosed is $ Name Salt Lake City 1 = Send the titles as checked above. Address. U. S. POSTAGE 2? Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 1} F C PERMIT No. 690 Let us be thankful in this three hundred and twenty-sixth year since the coming of our Pilgrim Fathers for a free America where justice and liberty prevail, for an ideology that "all men are created equal," for an abundant harvest, and for the assurance of continuing financial security for ourselves and for our families through the great American institution of Life Insurance. COMPANY HOME OFFICE?BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING SALT LAKE City 1, UTAH GEORGE ALBERT SMITH, PRESIDENT
