[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | Unknown | Issue: 8 | Title: FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION | Author: EMMELINE B. WELLS,]

FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION

	The U. W. P. C. was organized October
31, 1891, at the office of the Woman's
Exponent. A number of women writers
met together, as a result of letters which
had been sent to call a meeting.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was chosen temporary
chairman and Mrs. Julia I. McDonald
secretary pro tem. The permanent organ-
zation was effected, and Mrs. E. B. Wells
was elected President, Susa Y. Gates,
First Vice-President and L. Tula Greene
Richards Second Vice-President, Martha A.
Y. Greenhalgh, Vice-President-at-large,
Annie Wells Cannon Cor. Sec.; Josephine
Spencer, Asst. Cor. Sec.; Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
Rec. Sec.; Ruth M. Fox, Treasurer; Dr.
Romania B. Pratt, Auditor.
	The name, Utah Woman’s Press Club,
was adopted and the Chair appointed a
committee of three to prepare a constitution
and by-laws. Susa Young Gates of Provo,
Romania B. Pratt, Salt Lake, and Lucy A.
Clark Farmington were the committee.
	It was suggested that at the first meeting
to be held November 30, 1891, each mem-
ber contribute an original article or ad-
dress, or such a selected article as would
further the object for which the club was
organized, or be subject to a fine not to ex-
ceed twenty-five cents.
	The charter members were: E. B. Wells,
Susa Y. Gates, Romania B. Pratt, Ellis R.
Shipp, L. L. Greene Richards, Julia A.
McDonald, Lucy A. Clark and Ruth M. Fox:
	At the meeting held November 30,
Mrs. E. B. Wells made an address and three
original articles and three original poems
were read  They were, first, from the pen
of Susa Y. Gates, “The Local Literary
Field for Women.” A poem, “The
Mother Author,” Lula G. Richards. An
article on the “Suffrage Question” by
Sarah M. Kimball. Julia I. McDonald,
“The Poet’s Ideal Woman.” Ruth M.
Fox, an original poem, “Greeting,” and
Ellis R. Shipp, “Love Divine.”
	At the next meeting it was stated that
the object of the Club was purely literary,
and all foreign topics would be excluded.
	At this meeting, Miss N. V. Davis, who
afterwards contributed so largely to the
edification of the Club and charmed us
with her bright originality, was admitted
as a member, and is mentioned as telling a
very pleasing Christmas story and singing
the German Christmas hymn and a German
song.
	Miss Gladys Woodmansee is spoken of
as entertaining the Club with some fine
instrumental selections on the piano.
	At the third meeting, held January 30,
1892, Mrs. C. C. R. Wells is mentioned.


[Column 1]
President E. B. Wells read a communica-
tion from Washington, in reference to
uniting with the International Federation
of Press Clubs, for the consideration of the
ladies. Spoke of the advantage to be
gained in press work and extended oppor-
tunities at the coming World’s Fair.
	A motion was made that the club join
the Federation. Carried.
	The name of Louise Boyden appeared at
this date, who afterward added so much to
the enjoyment of the Club by her really
very fine elocutionary powers. The
minutes state that five new members were
received at this meeting.
	February 27 it is reported that eight new
members were admitted, and the names
of Phebe C. Young, Ellen Jakeman L.
L. Dalton and Julia P. M. Farnsworth
app ear.
	According to pre-arrangement of some of
the ladies the meeting took the form of a
birthday gathering to our time-honored
president and founder of the Club, E. B.
Wells. A token of love and esteem was
presented, congratulatory speeches wer,e
made and poems were read by each mem-
ber present, suitable to the occasion ex-
pressing tender love and affection, and true
appreciation of the one each desired to
honor. Mrs. Wells responded in fitting
words of thanks, saying: “Do not over-
estimate me, but love me all you will, for
love will yet rule the world.”
	At the March meeting the name of Mary
A Freeze appears as author of “The Bene-
fits of the Club, a very instructive article.
The names of Lillie T. Freeze and Miss
Genevieve L. Brown are recorded. In the
July minutes the name of L L. Dickinson
appears as the author of a poem, “The
Dreams of Childhood.”
	At the annual meeting, October 31, the
names of Mrs. Georgina Young and Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp are recorded as being
received as members of the Club, and
Josephine Spencer read an original poem,
The discussion of a pin or badge for mem-
bers is mentioned.
	Miss N. V. Davis spoke of the work of
the Club. Thought if we set apart certain
evenings for special subjects it would be
advantageous, and said: “That I am al-
ways present shows that I enjoy the time
spent here, and when I go away from
Utah I feel I shall know something of the
people.”
	January 31, 1893, Augusta Joyce Crocli-
eron is mentioned as contributing an article,
also Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh and Mrs
Ella W. Hyde and Miss May Preston were
received as members.
	Mrs. L. L. Dickinson entertained the
Club at a Valentine party in February,
1893, at her pleasant home. She com-
posed a poem for the occasion and very
artistically arranged everything for tile
enjoyment of her guests, serving refresh-
ments, exhibiting her large collection of
Indian relics and proving herself a charm-
ing hostess.
	March 22. 1893, Lydia D. Alder was re-
ceived as a member. The badge committee

[Column 2]
made a final report, submitting two designs
to select from; one with a bee and one with
a Greek lamp. It was decided to have a
gold pin with the Greek lamp, with U.
W. P. C. in raised letters. There is no
mention as to when the Club colors were
chosen, but they are lavender and sage
green. Mrs. Mamie Freeze was received
as a member.
	At the April meeting President E. B.
Wells spoke regarding the U. W. P. C.
becoming associated with the Territorial
Federation of Clubs. A communication
from the Federation explained some of the
benefits to be derived from the connection.
It was decided by unanimous vote that we
join the Federation.
	Article II., of the by-laws, was moved
by vote. Mrs. Lizzie Wilcox, Mrs. Ida
Haag and Miss Mamie Conrad received as
members. By unanimous vote Mrs. E. B.
Wells was sustained as delegate from the
Club to the Press Convention of Women to
be held in Chicago during the World’s
Fair, and Miss May Preston named as
alternate. Mrs. Maggie Bassett is men-
tioned as favoring the Club with some
choice music and Miss Pearl Russell as
singing very sweetly.
	At the May meeting little Ellis Shipp is
spoken of as very graphically reciting the
“Prairie Fire.”
	At the July meeting President Wells
was again in the chair. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor and Miss
Ada Patterson were received as members.
Miss Maude Pratt is mentioned as favoring
the Club with some choice music, one
selection from “Il Trovatore.”
	“The Sixth Sense” was discussed with
much interest. 
	An article appears in the EXPONENT of
September 1, 1893, which speaks of the
women in Journalism in the Rocky
mountains, most of whom are members of
the Press Club. It is from the pen of the
editor, E. B. Wells, and was written for
the World’s Fair held in Chicago in 1893.
			 (Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OFFICIAL NOTICE.
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society and the Secretary of each mission
or branch not yet included in a Stake,
whether in our own or in foreign countries,
are hereby officially notified to carefully
prepare correct statistical and financial
reports for the current year from January
1, 1901, to December 31, 1901. These
reports must be forwarded to the General
Secretary, at the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, Utah, early
in February, if possible, so that a complete
report of this great organization may be
ready at least ten days before the General
Conference in April, 1902. Address,
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.


