The Relief Society Magazine - August 1968, Vol. 55, No. 8

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE - AUGUST 1968

Bless My Aloneness Margery S. Stewart Bless my aloneness As thou, too, shalt bless The farmer sowing In the silent fields. Let fling in solitude's Vast earth The glowing seeds of hope And work and love. Let me behold What challenge waits me here, What treasure these hours are... What thoughts can spring To nugget finding roads, Galleons of dreams returning Filled from prow to stern With silks and emeralds, From lands I never thought To know. Bless my aloneness As thou didst bless The crowded years, Help me sow roses, Lord, Not salt of tears.

The Cover: Weber River, Near Ogden, Utah Transparency by Hal Rumel Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Mount Nebo, Utah, With a Frontage of Wheat Fields Photograph by Willard Luce

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

Mabel Harmer's story "If Spring Be Late" (beginning April 1968) becomes more interesting with each chapter. I find myself really absorbed in it. "Say Peanut Butter" (by Janice T. Dixon, May 1968) is precious. So seldom do we find anything to smile over and it was told in such a happy way. The poetry in the Magazine is all excellent.

Dorothy C. Robinson Orem, Utah

The Relief Society Magazine is the most important magazine that I own. We seldom see the names of people from this area in the From Near and Far department. Recently, however, I attended Brigham Young University Education week in Potomac Stake, and there I met Sister Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society. She was our music director when 300 Singing Mothers sang at the World's Fair in 1964. It was a thrilling experience to see her again. I love all the contents of The Relief Society Magazine lessons, the Home Inside and Out, general features, fiction, and, especially, the poetry.

Violet B. Colleti Alexandria, Virginia

I am so happy to receive The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish that I am writing to express my gratitude to you. I am Spanish, and I live in France, where we have lived for more than six years. My husband is president of the branch here in Toulouse, where we are all active. I congratulate you dear sisters on this Magazine. It carries a high morality, and gives much spirituality. It helps me very much in my personal life. I bid you farewell, and send you a strong embrace from a sister who loves you.

Elvire Turtos Toulouse, France

My dear friend Sister Kirk brings me The Relief Society Magazine, which I read from cover to cover, and find the stories so uplifting, and learn so much from the articles and special features.

Eileen Brown Radford, Nottingham, England

My son Fred who is on a mission in Germany was recently visiting in the home of an American soldier, and the wife brought out the Magazine containing my article about the Bancroft flood (July 1962). Fred said, "I was real proud of you, Mom."

Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho

I first heard the gospel in Rio Cuarto, Argentina, where I was baptized eighteen years ago. Since then my testimony has grown every day, as well as my happiness with the certainty that this is the only true Church of God upon the earth. I am very grateful to my Heavenly Father for his guidance, and because he always answers my prayers. Nineteen months ago I came to the United States. One of my sources of joy is to be able to receive The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish, and, through reading it, to grow in knowledge and faith. Through its pages, I would like to send greetings to all my brothers and sisters in the Church in Argentina, and to all the ex-missionaries who were guests in my home while they were serving their missions.

Carmela F. Valentich Norwalk, California

I would like to thank you sincerely for the publication of my recipes (April 1968), and for the payment, which came in handy to help buy Brother and Sister Ronald Coleby and their daughters Marjorie and Linda a going-away present. They came home here from Salt Lake City five years ago, after being there for ten and a half years. Now they have returned to Salt Lake City, Linda having received a scholarship at the University of Utah. We have had a good many missionaries stay with us through the years. Our Relief Society Magazine is a wonderful book. All of the sisters here seem to enjoy the lessons. I especially like to read President McKay's writings. He is a wonderful man and an inspiration to us all.

Mary Ann Adams Lowestoft, Suffolk, England

562

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Notes to the Field) ===
A reception to which stake beard 'members and mission district officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening,: October 2, from 7 to 10 P. M. In the Relief Society Building. Teaching Aid Packet For Spiritual Living Lessons = A teaching aid packet has been prepared for use with the 1968-69 spiritual living lessons, It is available, on order, from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, and all other Deseret Book Company outlets, at a cost of $1.25, postpaid regular mail. Those desiring the teaching aid packet to be sent via air mail should include the cost for air mail, for 12 ounces. Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet ® Out of the Best Books, Volume 4: The World Around Us, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas, for use with the cultural refinement lessons for 1968-69, is available from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, and at all other Deseret Book Company outlets, at a cost of $2.60, postpaid regular mail. Overseas orders should be sent by international money order, plus air mail charges where air mail service is desired. A teaching aid packet is available for the cultural refinement class leaders. It will contain five full

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
Here is the newest volume in the Out of the Best Books series! Volume IV is the Relief Society cultural refinement course for 1968-69 and is geared to the theme: "The World Around Us." Like previous volumes, this book includes literature from the pens of the greatest authors. This volume will make a fine addition to any home library. It will be appreciated and enjoyed by all the family. Order now for about August 28th delivery. $2.60 Surface mail paid anywhere in the world! Ct ee, ee 2. SPIRITUAL LIVING TEACHING AID PACKET This packet of visual aids and pictures is designed to go with the 1968-69 Relief Society spiritual living lessons. $1.25 SS Deseret Book 44 EAST SO TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD. OGDEN 177 SO MAIN ST.. ORANGE, CALIFORNIA DESERET BOOK COMPANY, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main Street, Orange, Calif. 92668 Gentlemen: Enclosed please find check [], money order [), I have an account, please charge []. Amount $ For the above numbered items: 1 2 ieee cec cece cee cccene cece cnnec ace ce cece ceececeeee cree ce cece tecete ccc gee eee coco ec ee be tee cece cece 0) ae TY enn ence cece ene eeee ener eee eeenneeecoeeSIWAWUB <= -----.22........--2.22e-- 92, II eae Residents of Utah please add 312% sales tax. Residents of California, when ordering through our Orange. California store, please add 5% sales tax. R. S. August Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Put the magic of Sugarplum Land FROZEN PEACH JAM 3 cups crushed peaches (about 2% pounds) 5 cups sugar 1 package powdered pectin 1 cup water A LO IA, Sort and wash fully ripe peaches, remove pits and skins, and crush fruit. Measure peaches into a large mixing bowl. Add sugar. Mix well, and let stand for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. Dissolve pectin in water; bring to a boil, and boil for 1 minute. Add pectin solution to the fruit and sugar mixture. Stir for 2 minutes. Ladle the jam into jelly glasses or freezer containers, leaving ' inch space at the top. Cover the containers and let stand for 24 to 48 hours. Makes about 9 six-ounce glasses. Store uncook