[Vol18 | August 1931 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: To "Live Happy Ever After" | Author: Elsie C Carroll]

THE old-time novel used to
carry its readers through the
sunshine and shadow of the
courtship of its hero and heroine,
successfully getting them through
the various obstacles and misunderstandings
of the wooing-time, and
up to the altar. Then the book
closed with the satisfying statement
:
"and so they were married and lived
happy ever after."
If we judge by the number of
divorce cases that are being filed
every day, we may logically wonder
if they did "live happy ever after."
We shouldn't like to regard romance
as ending with marriage
;
rather we like to think of it as
really beginning. If that is the case
it takes more than a marriage ceremony
to assure a smooth sailing
sea of matrimony.
Unless marriage is founded upon
the right basis, unless the participants
understand both the need of
keeping that basis sound and the
manner of so-doing all the ceremonies
in the world cannot assure
continuous happiness.
Not long since I was shocked to
learn of the divorce of a couple I
knew twenty years ago, who at that
time seemed ideally mated and more
than ordinarily happy. The husband
had claimed the divorce on the
grounds of incompatibility. My interest
in them caused me to do some
serious thinking along the line of
what it takes to assure continuous
happiness in married life.
Later I shall return to the case
of my early friends. Now I would
like to present what seems to be
some of the essentials for happy
marriage.
EH. GRIGGS points out in one
• of his little volumes on the art
of living, that "The little world of
personal relationship is always the
heart and soul of the larger world
of action." It is in our relation to
other persons that we experience our
highest joy and our bitterest sorrow.
There are many phases of personal
relationship, but that which binds
two people into one, the marriage
relation, is the closest of all and can
produce as its fruit the greatest
good or the greatest evil ; it can lead
to the heights of bliss or to the
depths of misery.
THERE are certain laws or principles
upon which this relationship
must be based if it is to fulfill its greatest possibilities. First of
all there must be a sound moral
quality in both parties to this relationship.
Real love and lasting happiness
cannot exist if either the man
or the woman is lacking in sound
moral fiber. This does not mean
that a certain degree of love would
not maintain even though one or the
other of the married couple should
develop flaws in character, and serious
flaws at that. We are all familiar
with cases where a wife has remained
true and loyal to a disreputable
husband and has stood by him
in the most degrading and humiliating
circumstances. Love of a certain
degree may remain, but certainly
not happiness. To insure permanent
happinesss, then, one essential
element is to build and keep
in repair a strong moral character.
ANOTHER element of continu-
<* ous happiness is that of likeness
of personality. That is, in certain
fundamental tastes and interests the
man and woman must be alike. If
one is deeply religious and the other
is not, there will be a likelihood of
unhappiness. If one loves children
and the other does not, happiness
cannot be assured. If one is fond
of an active social life and the other
prefers recreation of the outdoor
type, there may be a lack of harmony;
or if one deeply loves literature,
music, and art and the other
sees nothing of value beyond the
practical phases of life.
While it is essential that the husband
and wife be alike in their fundamental
ideals and tastes, they will
find greater happiness if they are
unlike in many of the minor aspects
of personality. If they are alike
in the essentials, then the more unlike
they are in things that do not
matter, the more they have to give
to each other.
In one of the happiest homes I
know the husband is thoughtful and
serious, he has difficulty in expressing
himself, and shrinks from social
contacts, though he knows that they
are important. His wife is lively,
has a keen sense of humor, is a
splendid conversationalist. Each
admires the other for what is lacking
in his own personality and they
complement each other perfectly.
ANOTHER essential for happiness
in married life is what
Griggs terms community of experience.
It means that the two must
share not only the little duties and
economies of everyday life, but they
must face the more "supreme annunciations
of birth, death, joy, achievement,
failure"—together. Recently
a young man was sent to the penitentary
for appropriating funds
which did not belong to him. During
the trial certain facts came out
which indicated that the wife was
even more guilty than he. She
wasn't facing our present period of
depression fairly with her husband.
Even though she knew his employer
had found it necessary to cut the
wage schedule in his company, she
made no changes in her expenditures.
She still required as much
as before for clothing, for marcells
and other personal expenses. She
made no differences in the kind of
food she bought nor in her methods
of preparing them. She still expected
to be taken to shows and dances and
resorts as often as formerly. Because
of this lack of "community of
experience," a lack of sympathy and
understanding which comes from
facing together the steep hills of
life as well as the sunny valleys, the
couple were drifting apart and the
young man feeling that it was all
his fault because he could not give
his wife the things he thought he should give her, was tempted to
steal.
THE law of growth is another
essential to permanent married
happiness. One writer has said that
to keep the love of one's life-comrade,
one must win it over again
every day. Love must be nourished
and cared for as a plant if it is to
live and flourish.
An unhappy married man recently
remarked that his wife was no
more the woman he married than an
entirely different person. Perhaps
he was just as different from the
man she had married. We all
change as life goes on. The trouble
with this couple was that they had
not changed together. They had
let their individual differences become
more dominant. They had
lived under the same roof, but they
had less and less as the years went
by shared their experiences. They
had failed in little sacrifices and
courtesies to each other and so their
love had died from want of proper
care.
LOYALTY is another foundation
stone in the happy marriage relation.
Loyalty has been defined as
holding faithfully to every significant
bond established between one's
own spirit and another's life. In
true loyalty there is no pretense.
Love is too precious to be blemished
by any element of insincerity. Loyalty
means recognizing the worth of
another and standing by that other
in times' of stress as well as in times
of ease and pleasure. "Loyalty demands
the recognition, with equal
frankness, of what is passing, as of
what is permanent, in a relationship."
True loyalty was demonstrated by
a wife whose husband, not himself
because of a temporary physical derangement
which was not serious
enough, he thought, to cause him to
lay off work, became irritated at his
employer and said things which cost
him his job. Though the situation
was serious, the young wife realized
that under ordinary circumstances
the thing would never have happened.
Her husband, disgusted
with himself, but too proud to admit
he had been at fault, expected only
reproof from his wife and was
ready to defend his stand at the cost
of a family quarrel. To his surprise
his wife did not blame him, but tenderly
coaxed him to go to bed where
he should have been for several
days. Later she quietly slipped away
and called upon the employer.
She made a simple explanation of
the situation, neither criticizing nor
upholding her husband, but revealing
facts the employer was glad to
know and showing a type of wifely
loyalty which caused him to restore
the job to the husband.
PERHAPS, aside from the first
law mentioned as essential to
married happiness—that of moral
soundness—there is none more significant
than what has been termed
the law of independence of personality.
One must be able to stan.d alone
to be worthy of a deep relationship
with another life. "The moment
one becomes an echo or a satellite of
one's friend, the power is lost to give
and take friendship. The answer to
the need of the spirit can only come
through the refreshing meeting with
another independent, self-centered
personality, able to reach out from
that center, and give and receive in
the great experiences of life." If
this is true of friendships, how
much more it is true of the relations
between a husband and wife.
In the case mentioned at the beginning
of this discussion, the incompatibility
which caused the separation 432 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of this once ideally mated man and woman had grown out of a misdirected sense of loyalty on the part of the woman, which finally robbed her as well as her husband of what life promised them. In their youth the girl had been not only exceptionally pretty, but also unusually bright. It was a well-known fact in our little country school that Madge used to help Phil with his English and history lessons. Constantly she was urging him to try for better grades. Even when they were children she was more interested in his success than in her own.

They were married the summer after their graduation from high school. Madge was determined that Phil should go to college. The parents of neither could help them, but upon her suggestion, they chose a school which offered good pre-medical courses and set out for it. He secured a part-time position as janitor and she assisted her landlady with laundry work and cleaning. After a time she succeeded in increasing her earning power by means of her needle. She was clever at making over children's clothes and by persistent effort worked up quite a little business in this line.

Then she persuaded Phil to devote all his time to studying, since her earnings were enough to pay their bills. They paid only for bare necessities, however. There was no money for pretty clothes, nor for the concerts and lectures Madge would have enjoyed so much. Neither was there enough to pay for an extension class she would have liked to take.

In four years Phil graduated with honors. By that time they had a two year old baby and were expecting another; but Madge was keeping on with her work and she was urging

Phil toward his post-graduate course.

Since it would be less expensive for her to stay at home, and since she had now her regular sewing customers, Phil went east to finish his course without her. After three years of regular work and a year's internship, he returned, a brilliant and polished young physician. Their second child was nearly four years old.

During the immediate years that followed she kept on with her work while he was getting his practice established, going through the so-called "starvation period." During this time two more babies were born.

Gradually Phil became more and more widely known. He was invited to join a hospital staff in a larger city. He could afford to buy a good home, and drive a fine car, and he was invited to join the best social groups.

By this time, so friends have told me, Madge was a little faded, lifeless creature, entirely unfitted for the new life now open to her. She had remained in the background so long, that she was not able to come to the front of the picture. Her husband and her children for whom she had drudged and sacrificed were living in a world she did not know how to enter. And so the tragic ending to a relationship which held unusual promise for happiness.

And how easily this wrecked happiness might have been saved. If only Madge and Phil could have sensed these fundamentals for continuous happiness and had planned and worked their future out together on a firm basis, she might have kept abreast with him intellectually instead of allowing her personality to become narrow while his was expanding.

---

**TO "LIVE HAPPY EVER AFTER" 433**

It is a mistake too many women make. They want to give all they have. They forget that they are giving the most cherished thing they could give when they preserve and develop their own individualities. Too often the woman feels that she must immolate herself on the altar of domestic happiness. If she has a talent, she feels that he must put it aside. If she is interested in painting, music, in some intellectual public work, she feels that she must abandon it or she will be neglecting her home life.

Even in the busiest years of a married woman's life, if she has the right understanding of the basis of happiness, she will cultivate a variety of interests; she will treasure and develop her talent, knowing that the time and money she is spending on her own personality is the greatest gift she can give to her family. Too often women who sacrifice themselves blindly, awaken years afterward to find their children selfish and their husbands ungrateful. True sacrifice is that which serves the best good of all, and it is most assuredly to the best good of the entire family for the wife and mother to keep herself physically fit and mentally and spiritually abreast with the other members of the family.

MARRIAGE rests upon two distinct foundations, the biological and the spiritual. To be assured of success, there should be in every marriage a physical attraction, and the elements which make for mental and spiritual companionship. As years go on the strength of the first bond becomes less and less. Then it is doubly important that men and women see to it that the second bond grows stronger. If husbands and wives would fairly face this need of consciously protecting and fostering

those things which make for lasting home harmony, much of the world's heart-break could be averted.

What greater happiness can be conceived than that of knowing one person dearer to you than your own-self—one breast into which you can pour every thought, every grief, every joy! True marriage gives you such a companion—one who, "if all the rest of the world were to calumniate or forsake you, would never wrong you by a harsh thought or an unjust word, who would cling to you in sickness, in poverty, in care; who would sacrifice all things to you, and for whom you would sacrifice all; whose smile is ever at your hearth; who has no tears while you are well and happy. Such is marriage, if they who marry have hearts and souls to feel that there is no bond on earth so tender and so sublime."

That is, we might add, if they will use commonsense in recognizing the fact that those relations do not rest upon some magical metamorphosis which comes with the marriage vows, but upon a set of practical, everyday laws or principles which must be recognized and adhered to. "The beauty of love lies in no false illusion of perfection, but in the growth together of two imperfect personalities."

In every married life it is true there will be ups and downs, lights and shades. We cannot always live on the heights. There must be lowlands to make us appreciate the heights. "A period of quiet waiting must precede and follow every chapter of exalted experience * * Great living means being true to the vision when we no longer behold it, carrying it loyally across the desolate plain and even through the valley of shadows, in the certain faith that the hills will rise again and we shall ascend them, and again
behold the vision of life, still and
clear at our feet."
To keep the vision of ideal happiness
one must try to maintain in
married life a fine courtesy in the
intimate relations of this bond. It
is frequently the neglect or abandonment
of the little courtesies of
life that turns the thoughtful lover
into a selfish, complaining husband,
and converts the gentle, sweetvoiced
bride into a slatternly, nagging
wife.
Only by recognizing such fundamental
principles as these I have
tried to indicate, can marriage, the
most difficult, yet the most sacred of
all personal relationships be made
the sacrament it should be ; only so
may those who assume its bonds
hope to "live happy ever after."