VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1887.	NO. 23.


TRUE LOVE GROWS ALWAYS
DEARER.

Twelve years of life together,
Of fair and cloudy weather;
	Of hopes and fears,
	And trials and tears:
But love to bind together.
	
Sunshine made love the clearer,
Shadows but drew us nearer;
	And joy and pain
	Sing	one refrain,
True love grows always dearer.

Joys may we always number,
And sorrows, dear, remember;
	And love and light
	Crown all the flight
Of years, till both shall slumber.

	MYSOTIS.
November 7, 1886.
		Mell G. Woods.


WHAT WOMEN TALK ABOUT,
AND WHY.

	It is a standing joke with our husbands and
brothers, that when two or more women meet
together for an afternoon visit, or even a morn-
ing call, their conversation is sure to gravi-
tate to the subject of servant girls and the
trials and tribulations of housekeepers in
general. I do not by any means admit the
truth of this, generally speaking, but if it were
true, what wonder?
	Do not these self-same husbands and brothers
converse on the subjects that are of the great-
est interest to them and have the most intimate
connection with their business? As for instance,
does not the farmer talk of the weather, the
crops, the latest improvements in machinery
for lightening agricultural labor, with his
brother farmers? The politician discusses the
prospective changes in official careers, the
merits and demerits of the candidates, the
tariff, the civil service, and all the ponderous
methods of government, with his fellow politi-
cians? and so on, ad infinitum. The horseman
talks nothing but horse; the merchants com-
pare notes in regard to trade; lawyers discuss
court affairs, and physicians (if ever on friendly
terms enough to speak at all) drift naturally
into the subjects which for them have the
greatest interest.
	How few housekeepers and mothers, com-
paratively speaking, have opportunities to post
themselves on the topics of the day; they talk
of their housekeeping cares, their children,
their servants, because these are the subjects,
which are, of necessity, daily and hourly upper-
most in their minds.
	Husbands do not object, as a general thing,
the sharing of the substantial benefits some-
times derived from learning, through their
chats, the recipe for some new and delicious
dish; the faults or merits of the new girl about
to be engaged, or whether it is wiser to make
that always dreaded change from the old one,
with all her faults, to the new one we know
nought of; to borrow an occasional bright idea
of how to make "auld claes look amoist as
weel's the new." Why, I could go on for an
hour, and then not enumerate all the benefits,
yes, actual benefits, to be derived from these
harmless, neighborly gossips, at which the male
population poke so much fun.
	If housekeepers had fewer cares and


more opportunities for pleasure and improve-
ment, they might have more varied subjects of
conversation; but while their heads and hands
are full of the homely duties of the hour, it
must be expected these selfsame duties will
furnish the principal food for their daily talk.
		ROSINA.


[Column 1]

﻿THE SITUATION.

	President Cleveland, as we are informed, did
not sign that infamous measure known to us
as the Edmunds-Tucker Bill. Query: "Why
did he not sign it?" I believe he knew it was a
gross violation of the Constitution, and would
prove the opening wedge to break in pieces the
platform upon which all constitutional freedom
was founded. There may have been other
reasons why he did not sign it, for God, it
seems to me, would not suffer a man who had
righteousness in his soul to sell his birthright
by signing away the rights guaranteed in that
sacred instrument, the Declaration of Inde-
pendence.
	The Governor of Arizona has shown his
patriotism by vetoing, or at least abolishing,
that ridiculous test oath. God will bless such
men, and they are worthy to rise to positions of
honor and renown. It seems that men are rare
nowadays who will seek to maintain inviolate
that sacred, heaven-born boon, that cannot be
purchased with gold nor silver, but which cost
the royal blood of our patriot fathers, who, we
may well believe, are looking down from the
paradise of God oftentimes to see the holy,
sacred altar of liberty desecrated It should
be priceless to us, for it was rendered ever dear
to them by the pleading prayers and bitter
tears and sacrifices of their tender wives and
children, dearer still for the crimson blood that
flowed out from hearts so brave and true. Like
unto the Son of God, they came to this earth
for a purpose—to lay their lives down in be-
queathing unto their posterity that legacy that
could not be found upon all the face of the
earth.
	Oh, liberty, we, like our fathers, have wor-
shipped at thy sacred shrine. Freedom, where
hast thou fled? Hast thou no friends nor
home upon the earth? Hast thou returned to
God who gave thee birth, whither patriots and
statesmen have gone before thee? The form of
thy beautiful goddess, dethroned of her glory,
has bowed her head in shame, and bathed her
cheeks in tears for her children's woes and her
country's wrongs. Exiled and imprisoned,
their property confiscated, scores of thy sons
are led in the language of Zion's poetess to
exclaim:

"Oh, persecution, shall thy purple hand
Spread utter desolation through the land?
Shall freedom's banner be no more unfurled?
Has peace indeed been taken from the world?"

	Those who signed the Declaration of Inde-
pendence laid their lives upon the altar. That
Declaration guarantees religious liberty; but do
we enjoy it? Every man, woman and child
should enter a protest against such despotic,
oppressive bills being acknowledged as law upon
this free American soil. We should contend
for our rights, for we are the legal and lawful
heirs to every right and privilege couched in
that sacred document which is the will and
heritage of our forefathers.
	Many thanks to the Woman's Convention;
their heads were well balanced when they

[Column 2]

asked the President to veto that clause in the
bill robbing the women of the elective franchise.
We cannot call it anything but robbery—class-
ing the wives and mothers with idiots and
criminals.
	Websters's definition of "Republic" is: "A
commonwealth, a state in which the exercise of
the sovereign power is lodged in representatives
elected by the people; in modern usage it differs
from a democracy or democratic State in which
the people exercise the powers of sovereignty
in person." Now, I would like to ask Mr.
Edmunds, if women are not people, what are
they? His bill classes them with reprobates,
idiots and criminals.
	In ancient days, when King Ahasueras
passed a decree to have all the Jews slain,
Esther, the Queen, proclaimed a fast of three
days and three nights to be observed among
Jews throughout all the provinces of the land,
and also by the Queen and her maids, during
which time they neither ate nor drank. The
morning of the fourth day Esther arose and
put on her royal apparel, and said unto her
maids, "I go before the King with my petition;
if I die, I die," for it was death by the law to
appear before his royal highness without per-
mission. When the King saw the Queen
standing in the inner court of the royal palace
he held out the golden scepter with these words,
"What is thy petition, Queen Esther? If it be
half of the kingdom it shall be granted thee."
Oh, how beautiful she must have looked,
clothed in her royal apparel, after fasting three
days and three nights, with her heart drawn
out in silent prayer unto the throne of God to
spare her life and the lives of her people!
Then was a manifestation of the power of God
brought to bear upon the King, through the
power of faith, brought into action by the un-
just persecution of the people of God. Her
petition was granted. God changed the decree
of the King, and Israel was free. So always
in His due time, may we see the hand of God
in answer to prayer.
	The Latter-day Saints have been taught to
pray for their rulers. They do so, and we ven-
ture to say many of them often remember
Senator Edmunds in their devotions. His
name will yet be held in derision by all who
love the name of Freedom. We hope soon to
see the time when the people with one united
voice may enter a protest against his despotic
bill.
	Pray on, Latter-day Saints! Let your fa t-
ings and prayers come up before the mighty
God of Israel, and you will see Haman hung
upon the gallows he is preparing for you.
		E PLURIBUS UNUM.


SANPETE PRIMARIES—A LAMANITE
LOVE-FEAST.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our late visit to the Primary Associations
of this, the Sanpete Stake of Zion, was a very
gratifying one, except in Fountain Green,
where the yellow flag told the dreaded story
of sickness among the little ones. It is more
and more apparent, that the most active, ener-
getic, wide awake and dutiful are the most
happy, whether they be officers or members of
these Associations; and we were very much
pleased, the other day, to hear the father of a
numerous family say in our Sabbath meeting
that since the Primary had been organized


his children were devoted to our religion earlier
and in a higher degree than previous to that
time.
	The nineteen Primaries of this Stake are
all adding their mite yearly to the building of
the Manti Temple, some gleaning wheat, some
making carpet (of which, we have been reliably
informed, it will take 1,100 yards to cover one
floor of that grand house), others making
quilts, counterpanes, tidies, laces, etc, and
saving nickles and dimes to help roll on this
important work. There have been seven fairs
the last year, and there are six manuscript
papers edited by the Primaries, weekly. There
are 2,114 children enrolled in the Primaries of
this Stake; 496 meetings have been held ac-
cording to our last yearly statistics, with an
average attendance of not quite one half of
the numbers enrolled. $265.52 was collected
last year, $207.64 disbursed, and there is $183.96
on hand.
	Quite a number of concerts have been given
by the children to delighted audiences, the pre-
siding sisters and the children unitedly working
for the financial independence of the Primaries,
while the most talented and warm hearted of
our young people render able and willing aid
in training the wee amateurs for their perform-
ances.
	From the average attendance, given above,
the inference seems justifiable that there is a
lack of appreciation on the part of the parents,
as it is a well established fact that children
will attend their meetings if not kept at home.
The presidents and counselors of Primaries are
laying up treasures in heaven, and in the
hearts of the children.
	While in Indianola we were permitted to
witness a novel entertainment. Our Lamanite
brethren and sisters there had arranged to
give a picnic in the evening to their friends,
Indians from the Bannock Nation, who were
there visiting and attending the Sanpete Stake
Quarterly Conference, held at Ephraim, and who
in turn decided to entertain them with a speci-
men of their war-dance. About a dozen of
the warriors sat down on the floor, surrounding
a small drum, on which they beat excellent
time with muffled sticks to a kind of chant, in
which the war chief was the leader. One, only,
was dressed in full war dress, tomahawk and
all. Two or three of them would jump up, at
different times, as if they had waited to be in-
spired by the music, to which they, in perfect
time, would jump on both feet at a time, swing-
ing their bodies from one side to the other,
every little while lifting their tomahawks up
over their heads, (those who had no tomahawk
used a drum stick) and giving vent to the
ominous "Ugh" in a manner that made us
shudder, while we thanked our Father in Hea-
ven that they were our friends and not our
enemies. Two venerable chiefs, whose majestic
bearing and noble looks showed that they
could by no means be considered dethroned
monarchs were proud but passive spectators
of this singular feast.
	The kind Bishop of Indianola, Brother J.
Spencer, presided, and upon his invitation we
were present. He seemed perfectly at home
among both the visiting and resident Laman-
ites, who in their turn seemed to think that
his words were their law. Next morning the
Bannock visitors were driven to the station by
the Indianola Indians, with their own teams.
	The work in the Primaries is steadily in-
creasing in interest. That work is its own
sweet reward, to say nothing about the harvest
to come from the seeds of truth and love now
sown so faithfully by the sisters who are and
have been laboring in the good cause.
		HELENA MADSEN, 
		LUCY BERGLUND, 
		HANNAH WICKMAN, 
	Stake Presidency of Primaries
Gunnison, Sanpete Co., April 12, 1887.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿THE HINDOO MARRIAGE LAW.

	The case of Rukmibhai, the native lady
whose wrongs aroused so general a feeling of
sympathy in England and India, is again ex-
citing attention. It appears that Rukmibhai
was married, according to Hindoo usage, at the
age of 11, to a youth some years her senior.
She remained at her parents' house, was care-
fully educated, and grew up, according to all
accounts, into a refined and cultivated lady.
Some eighteen months ago she published in the
Times of India, under the non de plume of a
"Hindoo Lady," a series of forcible and strik-
ing letters on the miseries entailed on her sex
in India, by the barbarous customs of infant
marriage and enforced widowhood. Last year
her husband tried to get her to live with him,
and on her refusing instituted a suit for the
restitution of conjugal rights in the Bombay
High Court. The case was tried in the first
instance by Mr. Justice Pinhey, when it hav-
ing been proved that the husband was too
poor to support her, was utterly ignorant and
uneducated—in fact a mere coolie—and was
moreover consumptive, the Judge expressed
the opinion that it would be a barbarous, cruel
and revolting thing to compel her to live
with such a man. He further held that
such a suit could not lie under Hindoo law,
and dismissed it. The husband appealed, and
the case was argued before the Chief Justice
and Mr. Bayley. Those learned Judges,
while expressing their entire sympathy with
Rukmibhai, felt compelled to rule that Mr.
Justice Pinhey was wrong in law and
remanded the case to the Lower Court for
trial on its merits. It has now been reheard
before Mr. Justice Farran. Rukmibhai's
counsel could only repeat that his client had
never consented to the marriage, and never
regarded the man as her husband, that the
husband was poor, ignorant, and unhealthy,
and that if ordered to return to him she
would be forced to disobey, and was pre-
pared to take the consequences. The court
had no option save to pass an order that she
should join her husband within a month.
Should she fail to do so, she would be liable
to six months' imprisonment. The case has
excited much sympathy among the Anglo-
Indian community. The English newspapers
are publishing articles and letters on the
subject.
	The Times, April 11th, says that a com-
mittee has been formed in Bombay under
the presidency of Professor Wordsworth to
take action with a view to the removal of
the anomaly which applies coercive English
provisions to enforce the Hindoo law. The
committee is busily engaged in raising funds,
and seems determined to thresh out the case
again before the Appeal Court. Should that
tribunal uphold the ruling of the Court of
first instance, it is to be hoped that the funds
will suffice to carry the case to and to obtain
an authoritative decision from the Privy
Council. The sympathy shown by the Brit-
ish Press and public is fully appreciated here,
but it would appear that the exact position
of affairs is not clearly understood at home.
If the existing order is not set aside, Ruk-
mibhai will be liable not only to trial by a
Criminal Court, but to six months' imprison-
ment in a civil goal for disobedience to the
order of a Civil Court. That imprisonment
over, her troubles will not be necessarily at
an end, for if her husband again requests
her to live with him, and she again refuses,
a fresh cause of action will arise, and the
whole miserable business may be repeated
over and over again after the expiration of
each term of imprisonment. It is therefore
in the highest degree desirable that the Court
of ultimate appeal should have an oppor-
tunity of expressing its opinion on the legal

[Column 2]

point. Should that opinion be adverse to
Rukmibhai, it is to be hoped that the force
of English and Anglo-Indian opinion will
compel the Government to alter the law.
Among the native community, however, hard-
ly a single voice except that of Mr. Malabari,
a Parsee gentleman, has been raised in her
favor, and the so-called reformers who agitate
loudly for representative institutions, etc., say
no word for the alteration of the cruel law
which the Bombay Court has been reluctant-
ly compelled to enforce.
	A letter by Rukmibhai herself to an Eng-
lish lady, which was published in the Times
April 9th, forcibly shows the hardship, not
only of her case, but of all other Hindoo
wives. The fiftieth year of our Queen's ac-
cession to the most renowned throne, she
says, is the jubilee year in which every town
and every village in her dominions, is to
show its loyalty in the best way it can,
and wish the Mother Queen a long happy
life to rule over us for many years with
peace and prosperity. At such an unusual
occasion will the mother listen to an earnest
appeal from her millions of Indian daughters,
and grant them a few simple words of
change into the books on Hindoo law, that
marriages performed before the respective
ages of twenty in boys and fifteen in girls,
shall not be considered legal in the eyes of
the  law if brought before the court?—Se-
lected.


"What a picturesque little cottage! A verit-
able Swiss chalet."
	"A Swiss shall he, do you call it? To my
mind, it's more like an Irish shan't he."
	"I see," said an opposing counsel to the
late Emery A. Storrs, "you hate to meet the
truth in this matter." "I never do meet it,"
was the prompt reply; "the truth and I al-
ways travel in the same direction."
	"Mamma," said a small boy, "how do you
spell 'knee?'" "K-n-e-e, Johnny." Silence 
for several minutes, while the letters were
going down laboriously. "Mamma, how do
spell 'grow'?" "G-r-o-w, my son." More la-
borious scratching, after which the boy looks
up smilingly, remarking: "Now I've got it,—
k-n-e-e, ne, g-r-o-w, gro, negro."
	"Major," said a friend to him one day, "if
some one was to challenge you to fight a duel,
what would you do?" "It would all depend on
whether he was a gentleman  or not," said the
major. "If he was a gentleman, I'd certainly
fight him." "But how would you judge as to
that?" "That wouldn't be hard to tell. If he
was a gentleman, he wouldn't want to fight me
unless I had insulted him; and I wouldn't insult
him if he was a gentleman."


Women constitute two thirds of our church
members and only one fifth of our criminals.
Yet there are still people who say that
woman suffrage would strengthen the politi-
cal power of vice and crime.
	Light is thrown on the woman question
by the remark of the Springfield Republican,
that "if a woman can market well, she ought
to be intelligent enough to vote." This idea,
the New York World thinks, "is probably
based on the assumption that the selection of
pork chops is a similar process to the selec-
tion of politicians." It can be further re-
marked that, if better results were not se-
cured in the selection of pork chops for the
breakfast-table than in the election of politi-
cians for office, there would be trouble in a
large number of the happy families of this
country.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A DOUBTING HEART.

Where are the swallows fled?
		Frozen and dead,
Perchance upon some bleak and stormy shore
		O doubting heart!
	Far over purple seas,
	They wait, in sunny ease,
	The balmy southern breeze,
To bring them to their northern home once more.

Why must the flowers die?
		Prisoned they lie
In the cold tomb, heedless of tears or rain.
		O doubting heart!
	They only sleep below
	The soft white ermine snow,
	While winter winds shall blow,
To breathe and smile upon you soon again.

The sun has hid its rays
		These many days; 
	Will dreary hours never leave the earth?
		O doubting heart!
	The stormy clouds on high
	Veil the same sunny sky,
	That soon (for spring is nigh)
Shall wake the summer into golden mirth.

Fair hope is dead, and light
		Is quenched in night.
What sound can break the silence of despair?
		O doubting heart!
	Thy sky is overcast,
	Yet stars shall rise at last,
	Brighter for darkness past,
And angels' silver voices stir the air.

		ADELAIDE A. PROCTER.


MARIE CALM.

	By the death of Miss Marie Calm, which
occurred after a short illness at Cassel, Ger-
many, on February 22nd, the German women
have lost an earnest advocate of their higher
education, and a hard worker on many
questions of social interest. Marie Calm was
no theorist, during her early life she had
practical experience in education, both as
governess in England and Russia, and princi-
pal of a school in the Rhine Provinces, and
she was able to estimate, at its full value,
the influence for good which a sounder me-
thod of instruction and a broader extent of
knowledge, would exert upon women's lives.
	Maria Calm, the poet, novelist and philan-
thropist; was born at Arolson, in the princi-
pality of Waldeck in 1832. Her father was
burgomaster of that town, and held the usual
views of the time upon woman's education;
but his daughter persuaded him to allow her
to finish her education in Switzerland, and
from thence she went as governess to other
countries. Afterwards she took charge of a
girls' school in Germany, which she retained
till forced to give it up by delicate health.
From this time she turned her full attention
to writing.
	In 1865, the first Woman's Congress, when
the Deutschen Frauen Allgemeiner Verein
was established, was held at Leipsic, and im-
mediately afterwards, Maria Calm, delighted
to find this commencement of effort for eleva-
tion of her countrywomen, wrote to the pro-
moters of the Congress to express her sym-
pathy with their views. Three years later,
in October, 1869, she invited the Conference
to meet in Cassel, and worked almost single-
handed for its success, very few men or
women in Cassel caring for its objects, and
all disapproving of women speakers. The
Congress, however, despite all discourage-
ments, was a thorough success; a local Union
for the education of women was founded,
and an Industrial School for Girls established.
The instruction in this school includes book-
keeping, foreign languages, German literature
and history, commercial correspondence, buy-

[Column 2]

ing of goods for household and other pur-
poses, drawing and needlework of all kinds.
The school rapidly grew and prospered. Miss
Calm not only held classes in history and
literature in it herself, but assembled the
pupils in her own house in the evenings,
thus supplementing the school education by
kindly home influence.
	Since 1869, however, she placed herself at
the service of the cause of Woman's Educa-
tion, being ready to travel wherever she was
needed to lecture upon education, and to
found unions and schools. She went in this
way to Hamburg, Heidelberg, Stuttgart,
Frankfurt and many other towns, her sound
good sense, and pleasant, genial manners, al-
ways winning friends to the cause. In Eng-
land friends will remember her last visit in
the summer of 1862, and the interest she took
in all the methods for developing the rights
and responsibilities of women in that country.
She was an accomplished English scholar, and
took part with ease in a meeting of the Women's
Poor Law Guardian Society, relating the
analogous part which German ladies took in
the management of the poor at Hamburg, El-
berfeldt, Cassel, and other places. She was
also much pleased by a visit she paid to the
colleges for women at Cambridge, to a Suffrage
Meeting at Southsea, and other occasions
where women were endeavoring to do honest
and thorough work. On her return to Ger-
many she wrote accounts of many of these
movements; but although publishers were easily
found for her papers on the condition of
Women's Employment and Education in Eng-
land, it is worthy of note that she received
continual discouragement about her Suffrage
articles, and it is not certain that they have
ever found a publisher to this day.
	The list of her writings is too long to be
mentioned; some are composed with special
reference to girls, such as the "Blick in das
Leben," prepared for girls from sixteen to
eighteen, and "Weibliches Wirken in Kuche,
Wohnzimmer und Salon." Her novels are
thoughtful, and full of earnest purpose; a vol-
ume of poems, called "Bilder und Klange,"
was printed during the Franco-Prussian war,
and sold for the benefit of the wounded soldiers.
Her writings in Neue Bahnen, and other Ger-
man periodicals, were innumerable; the latest
communication we received from her was in
November last, on the subject of the Medical
Education of Women, in which she was pro-
foundly interested; she spoke hopefully in it of
the next meeting in Weimar. Her last illness
was short, and the announcement of her death
on February 22nd was the first intimation that
many of her English friends received of her
danger. She was one of those who can ill be
spared.—Englishwoman's Review.


ONLY A MORMON.
	What happened when the Mormons forty
years ago settled in the desert of Utah was
this: A city sprang up as if by magic, and
the untiring industry, energy and zeal of the
emigrants turned a barren wilderness into a
fertile and blooming garden. The American
frontiersman would sooner steal than starve or
work any day, and the possessions of the Mor-
mons have been piously coveted by him these
many years. He has sought and found divers
of the Lord’s orthodox saints to whom the
beam in the Mormon eye is very grievous.
Brother Frelinghuysen, of New Jersey, some
fifteen years ago, found himself unable to sleep
nights all along of those spiritually ophthalmic
Mormons. So he got after them with his little
persecution and was straightway so relieved in
mind that he was able to go meet his Redeemer
in a glow of conscious sainthood. Just what
is the matter with brother Edmunds, of Ver-


mont, is not known; it may be the drinks he
takes; but between them he has contrived to
get in his work on the Mormon brethren in the
line of peculiar Christianity that comes to him
by inheritance. Brother Edmunds relieves
the ancestral high tension piety generated in
super-heated coppers by working it off on Mor-
mons instead of witches. His bill just passed
by Congress is designed to turn over these in-
dustrious, energetic and zealous miscreants,
their church and its property, their government
and schools, to the pious frontiersmen who
have waited and hungered for the same, have
gone ragged and have drunk “Valley-tan”
through weary years. Perhaps these dearly
beloved brethren of Senator Edmunds are now
about entering into their reward. Perhaps the
men who have created a garden out of a wilder-
ness will not have the wit to keep it from the
poor loafers who now covet it, even as they
won it from the Indians who once owned it.
Perhaps water will flee affrighted up-hill at
the holy snort of our brother Edmunds (of
Vermont). Or perhaps this, our brother, may
die of old age, leaving the Church of Latter-
day Saints in full possession of its faculties and
moneys and savings, its gardens and accumula-
tions and flesh pots. Things as perverse as
this have happened in this most perverse of
worlds, and even Edmundses have appeared to
live in vain save as they serve to point a moral
and adorn the gospel according to Cotton
Mather.—San Francisco News Letter.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	
	Miss Prince, of California, is the first Ameri-
can woman admitted to the school of Oriental
Languages in Paris.
	Mrs. Bishop H. Warren, said to be the
richest woman in Colorado, made her own 
money by cattle-raising, and is now worth
$10,000,000.
	A conference of lawyers in Paris lately de-
cided that legally a man was authorized to
open and make himself familiar with the con-
tents of his wife’s letters.
	Miss Elvira I. Diaz has received the diploma
of Licentiate in Medicine and Pharmacy from
the University of Valparaiso, Chili. She is
the first of her sex to receive it in that Repub-
lic.
	Mrs. Mancel Talcott, of Chicago, has es-
tablished and maintains two day-nurseries for
the children of working women. One thou-
sand children on an average are cared for in
these nurseries every month.
	Mrs. Dora Salter has been elected Mayor
of Argonia, Summer County, Kan., by a 
larger majority than any other candidate
ever received in that city. Her opponent
was one of the leading citizens.
	Miss Minnie E. Bigelow, a very successful
teacher, has been elected a member of the 
Princeton School Committee by a handsome
majority. She is the first woman chosen to
that position in Princeton.
	Mrs. E. Putnam Heaton, of the Brooklyn
Times, has been weighing the dresses at a 
fashionable modiste’s, to find the average
weight of a woman’s gown. She found that
jet-trimmed reception dresses weighed from
34 to 49 pounds, plain walking dresses from 
12 to 19. Nothing was found that weighed
less than 10 pounds.


﻿You find yourself refreshed by the presence
of cheerful people: why not make earnest ef-
fort to confer that pleasure on others? You
will find half the battle is gained if you
never allow yourself to say anything gloomy.
—Lydia Maria Child.


180 
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE D. WELLS, 	- 	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah	Terms:
one copy one year, $3.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:	Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $2.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hour from 10 a.m
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY.	MAY 1, 1887.


[Column 1]
THE QUEEN OF HAWAII.

	In another portion of this paper will be found
an account of the arrival of Her Hawaiian
Majesty, Queen Kapiolani and suite in San Fran-
cisco, on their way to England to take part in the
festivities and ceremonies connected with the fifti-
eth or jubilee anniversary of the coronation of
Queen Victoria of the empire of Great Britain.
It will naturally be supposed the ruler of a nation
in which Latter-day Saint Elders, when laboring
as missionaries, have found so cordial a welcome
and met with so much success as in the Sandwich
Islands, could not fail to be regarded with more
than usual interest by the community dwelling in
these valleys. There are among the inhabitants
of Utah not only many who have spent some
years in Her Majesty’s dominions, acquiring the
language and becoming acquainted with the cus-
toms and habits of her subjects, but also quite a
numerous colony of her own people, who, having
embraced what is known as Mormonism, were per-
mitted to leave the Islands and take up their resi-
dence with the main body of the Church. It was
therefore with much eagerness that all particulars
of Her Majesty’s retinue, journey and intentions
were read, and with sincere pleasure that a visit
to this city was expected. Moreover, as the con-
sort of a Prince whose dominions under his en-
lightened rule have made great progress in the
scale of intelligence and civilization, the Queen
was entitled to the respect which so far on her
journey has everywhere been shown her.
	In reply to the dispatch of the Mayor of Salt
Lake City, tendering the royal party the hospitali-
ties of the City, came the disappointing news that
prior engagements would not allow the Queen to
stop here at all, that her whole transcontinental
journey indeed would have to be unbroken un-
til she reached Washington—upon which a cer-
tain mendacious newspaper here took occasion to
insinuate that her Majesty’s experience with
“Mormons” and “Mormon” methods in her own
fair Islands had made her only too willing to pass
by the headquarters of the Church with an illcon-
cealed slight. The utter falsity of this statement
was learned from the lips of the party themselves
during their journey down from Ogden, whither
a special train, with a large number of invited
guests, including of course many of those who had
been on the Islands, as well as the entire Hawaiian
colony in this city, proceeded to meet them. The
affecting scene which transpired as the natives met
their Queen is thus described by an eyewitness:
	“The door of the car, which had been kept locked
was now opened to admit one of the Hawaiians
from this city, a large, good-looking woman
named Kapukini, who is of superior birth, having
chieftain’s blood in her veins. As soon as she
saw her royal mistress she burst into tears, and
bending low kissed the cheek of the Princess—(the
King’s sister and heiress apparent to the throne) a
privilege her birth accorded her, and then pressed
her lips to the hand of the Queen. She was
spoken to kindly by the Queen, who seemed to

[Column 2]
recognize her, and was given a seat near by. It
was a long time however, before the poor creature
could master her sobs, and both the Queen and
the Princess had frequent recourse to their own
handkerchiefs. When the woman was able to
speak, however, the two engaged her in
animated conversation, which was kept up most
of the way down to the city. The Queen inquired
particularly after the twenty of her subjects who
had been allowed to come to Utah—whether they
were happy and contented and how they were oc-
cupied. Kapunkini answered her that they all
were doing well, and that none had a wish to re-
turn. When the train reached the city, the other
Kanakas were admitted to the car; the women all
prostrated themselves on their knees in the aisle
weeping convulsively and kissing the hands of the
Queen and Princess; the men merely knelt and
took the proffered hand without saluting it, though
the respect and veneration expressed in their
faces were almost like worship and adoration. The
women continued to kneel and weep in the aisle
till the men helped them into seats, and then their
tears did not cease to flow.”
	The Queen is fifty-two years of age; her
hair is jet black, and is worn combed straight back
and coiled on the top of her head, under her hat;
her color is somewhat lighter than that of the na-
tives here. Her air is dignified especially when she
is receiving the homage of those around her; and
the carriage of her head is the most queenly thing
about her. When she smiles she looks so pleas-
ant that it almost makes her look pretty. “She was
dressed a la European in a black satin dress
trimmed with velvet; the sleeves, fringed with
ruffs of lace, terminated half way between the
elbow and wrist, leaving a plump and dusky arm
visible; the hands were encased in black kid
gloves; a high black hat, trimmed with black vel-
vet and surmounted by a white dove’s wing, was
the only head dress; a long strip of grey fur en-
circled her neck, crossed on her bosom and dis-
appeared somewhere in the back ground. A gold-
rimmed eye glass depended by a long gold chain
from her neck; in her hand she held a small
palmetto fan. Her sister-in-law was somewhat
darker in color, and her hair was slightly mixed
with grey. With the exception of a heavy black
veil which hung about her shoulders she was at-
tired in much the same fashion as the queen.”
	After a short stay the locomotive bell and whistle
gave warning that travel was about to resume.
The car was reluctantly vacated, and in a few mo-
ments the train bearing the travelers on their long
journey was lost to view.
	May they have a prosperous and agreeable
voyage by land and sea, and reach their home
again in safety and peace.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	
	During the temporary absence of the Editor of
the EXPONENT, all business pertaining to the
office and paper will be attended to by Mrs. Annie
W. Cannon.
	W. H. Dickson, U. S. prosecuting attorney for
this Territory, whose course during the last two
years has been an insult to American freedom, and
whose heartlessness and vindictiveness have
earned for him a title to remembrance which will,
we think, be enduring, has at last, upon receiving
in unequivocal terms the intimation that his
resignation would be acceptable, seen fit to give
up his office, an example which, as in duty bound,
his associate, Mr. Varian, with much promptness,
followed. Peace to them. The new appointee is
a Mr. Peters of Ohio.
	ROYALTY has smiled lavishly upon Utah since
our last issue. In addition to the Queen of
Hawaii, noticed elsewhere, Prince Leopold of
Prussia, nephew of the venerable Kaiser Wilhelm
of Germany, spent twenty-four hours in this city,


visiting among other places the Tabernacle and
Temple, and hearing in the former a performance
upon the grand organ, with which he seemed
much delighted. The Prince is a son of the Em-
peror's brother, Friedrich Carl, who, during the
Franco-Prussian war, gained distinction as an ar-
tillery commander, and became thenceforth
familiarly known in military circles as the “Red
Prince.”


MAY DAY.
	
	The old and merry holiday has come round once
again, bringing with it a wealth of memories; I
almost scent the breath of “dogtooth” and “spring-
beauty” in the very air; and in my mind’s eye
again I see the group of maidens and young men,
and little lads and lasses, starting out to the woods
for the day, and hear, or seem to hear, the song
and laughter which made the welkin ring, “Lang
Syne.”
	With what joy we welcomed the fair month of
May, that brought us
	"Daisies pled and violets blue,
	And lady smocks all silver white,
	And cuckoe buds of silver hue, 
	That paint the meadows with delight.”
	How we ransacked the dim old woods for the
rarest posies, and clambered and toiled over
rocky cliffs for the choicest ferns, and then in the
noontide rest, we sought the shadiest dell and re-
freshed ourselves with the dainties provided by
our dear mothers, and slacked our thirst at the
clear, cold, crystal spring. Then came the home-
ward tramp in the gloaming, with our arms full of
flowers and ferns, to keep fresh by their fragrance,
for a few days, the breath of spring we had
breathed that day. O, the happy, healthy, tired
girls and boys of long ago, when we went Maying.
Long may the memories live in our hearts, and,
like the scent of lavender in old presses, bring up,
like the breath of soft summer air and glint of
blue skies, only happy recollections.
	In ye olden times May Day marked the out-
break into life and beauty of mother nature, after
her long winter nap, and was heralded with great
pomp and festive gatherings, and it is not strange
that the profusion of buds and blossoms that are
spread around us at this time should have been
heralded with an instinctive feeling of gladness
and delight, or that the flowers around us should
have been set up in a sort of decorative fashion
and such homage be paid them as finds expression
in the song and dance.
	Among the Romans we find their floral games,
which began on the 28th of April, and lasted
several days, corresponding to our May-day festi-
val. Among the ancient Celtic people there was
a festival, called “Beltain,” held on the first of
May, and in England, during the middle ages, it
was the custom for all, both high and low, even
the court itself, to go out on the first May morning
early to fetch the flowers fresh; so we learn from
Chaucer and other writers. The hawthorne
branches were gathered and brought home, with
songs and all sorts of merriment, and came to be
called the May by a very natural transition of
ideas. So the ceremony of bringing it was called,
“Bringing home the May.” Thus came the ex-
pression, “Going a Maying.”
	Then a little later came the erection of a fixed
pole in every town and village, called the “May
pole,” where, on each May morning, were sus-
pended wreaths of flowers, and a pretty dance
was inaugurated round it. Different colored rib-
bons were tacked to the pole, and each lad and
lassie held one, and in the figure of the dance
wound and unwound these ribbons in a pretty
fanciful pattern round the pole.
	But the stern Puritans did away with most of
this pretty, harmless nonsense, though in France
and Germany even yet, the May pole may be
found, and the ceremony of crowning the fairest


maiden with flowers, as queen of the May, is not
yet obsolete.
	So you see, dear readers, we can call history to
aid us in maintaining this beautiful holiday. It is
but an expression, after all, of our natural love of
God and His goodness, to whom we owe the
springtime and the flowers, and all the resurrected
beauties of this pleasant earth. Surely the tribute
we pay to Him through our love of May time will
be acceptable offering.

	"Consider the lilies of the field how they grow."
									MYSOTIS.


181
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WHO WILL BE THE VICTORS?	

	One would think that the o'er wise and flippant
writers who have so frequently doomed "Mor-
monism" and the patriarchal order of marriage to
speedy death, would begin to reflect a little before
leaping to any more conclusions, at least till they
discover some stronger symptoms of decline, as
they certainly have a most provokingly healthy
appearance, which bespeaks long life and pros-
perity, in spite of all the efforts and chicanery of
the shriveled and cankered souls who have tried
so long to prove them otherwise.
	The farces and failures which have been mixed
rather indiscriminately, and the chagrin of the
would-be usurpers of "Mormon's" rights, when
being beaten at their own game, have afforded us
some amusement in the midst of our trials, as well
as food for reflection upon the past, present and
future course of the people against whom the
darts of the wicked have been hurled from every
quarter, though no just cause or provocation has
ever been proven against them. Those who
brought about the murder of the Prophet Joseph
and his brother Hyrum admitted that the law
could not touch them; "but," said they, "bullets
can." Their worst enemies were men who had
been members of the "Mormon" Church, but
had been found out in their iniquities and dealt
with for the same, and they thirsted for the
Prophet's blood.
	Among the strong reasons for troubles in that
day was the power and influence that the "Mor-
mons" were gaining through their united votes,
etc., and the Prophet had drawn around him some
firm friends among unbelievers, who were men of
influence, and they favored his election as the
coming President of the United States. His
martyrdom was deemed the death blow to "Mor-
monism." The same spirit that prompted the 
murderers of Joseph and the Saints who were
slaughtered in Missouri and Illinois, is what
reigns in the hearts of our persecutors to-day. It
was the growing influence that they were gaining,
and the prosperity which they were in a fair way
to enjoy, that stirred up the jealousy and hatred of
politicians and hireling priests.
	But "Mormonism" has survived and thriven
through it all, though it has been annihilated
scores of times in the imagination of those who
have marshaled themselves to battle against the
light and intelligence revealed from on high for
the salvation of the human family. Its followers
have been threatened with utter extermination,
and their faith and courage have been tested for
half a century, but its strength has increased
with its years, and it has been able to withstand
every attack that has been made upon it by its
various opposers. They have long since proven
their inability to cope with it, and only made their
own cause appear more diminutive by com-
parison.
	The sectarian plate-passers and political dema-
gogues who have joined hands for the extirpation
of "Mormonism" might meet with some success
were they to spend their time and artillery upon
one another, as has been their custom from time 
immemorial, instead of wasting it in the vain at-
tempt to break down what God has set up. Those

[Column 2]
who could approve of the unprincipled course
taken against the "Mormons" under the cloak of
religion and law, particularly of the Edmunds-
Tucker Bill, which was rushed through the House
with a "whoop and a howl," like so many hood-
lums, or uncivilized barbarians, instead of wise
and experienced statesmen, must be void of human
feelings, and we have reason to be grateful that
we are not dependent upon them, nor upon
political power for "life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness," and that among the "fifty millions"
set up as a scarecrow to the builders of these far
off cities and towns, there are those who are
governed by common-sense principles and would
manifest mercy and equity towards all classes
without respect to their religious belief, and have
no sympathy with those who are co-operating
against the peace and good order which Utah was
noted for before sectarian hypocrites and political
scapegraces bore rule. Think of the noise and
cant that has been made over the enslaved "Mor-
mons" and the "one man power" in Utah, and
how ingeniously the gentle and kindly hearted
Christians have worked to christianize the "poor,
ignorant, benighted and down-trodden dupes," and
"win them back to the liberty of the Gospel!"
while scheming and plotting to take away every
iota of what we enjoy, and cannot be satisfied till
they bring all these poor objects of charity (?) un-
der the reign of an absolute despotism.
	When the first proposition was made to give the
elective feranchise to the"enslaved" women of
Utah as a means of making their escape from the
tyranny of the "Mormon Priesthood," it was never
dreamed that we could slight so tempting an offer,
but would grasp the "bait" with eagerness to es-
cape from Utah's dreary prison walls to enjoy
that glorious freedom so nobly and magnanimous-
ly offered from the gracious hands of "wolves in
sheep's clothing." This was the mission of the
would be invaders of our national rights, but they
missed their aim. Th cloven foot was too visible,
and we saw through their scheme at a glance,
though we were "judged as fools," and among the
offscourings of the earth. We may look for any-
thing and everything as long as such characters
are suffered to hold office. Laws have been fab-
ricated at the shortest notice to suit any and every
case that would enable them to rob and pillage the
"Mormon" Church. They have pronounced the
innocent guilty, and the cold blooded murderer
not guilty, seeing only a "Mormon" was killed,
and would not leave us one vestige of right or
liberty, which they allow to some of the meanest
cravens and assassins that walk the Almighty's
footstool, and even foist them into office to domineer
and insult peaceful citizens, and they are patted
on the back for doing the bidding of their masters.
But what conquests have been made by the
enemies of "Mormonism" is to us as much of a
myth as the true gospel is to those who are seek
ing to stop its growth and future prominence be
fore the world by trickery and falsehoods, appar-
ently the favorite weapons resorted to for this pur-
pose; and who of them have ever escaped the
rock which they prepared to split asunder the
"Mormon" craft? Who can remember a time that
persecution did not give it a fresh impetus to push
onward and upward? Which of them are display-
ing the greatest wisdom and valor, "our unrelent-
ing foes, who have wasted so much breath, time
and money in trying to demolish "Mormonism,"
or the objects of their hate, who knowing their
rights, object to being hoodwinked out of them,
and will use every lawful means to retain what
is their own and are wisely hoarding their strength
for more useful and humane purposes than seeking
the destruction of their fellow beings? The
course that is being pursued by the nation
though their instrumentality is nothing surpris-
ing to those whom they are seeking to victimise,
as they have been looking forward to those days,
and to many more peculiar and wonderful events
which are to transpire in the near future, all of

[Column 3]
which were predicted by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. We know that the Church of Jesus
Christ is established in this land never more to be
scattered or moved out of its place, and let those
note it down whose mouths occasionally water
over the flattering prospect of robbing the "Mor-
mons" of their hard earnings, enjoying their vines
and fig trees, with their rich pastures, pleasant
homes, Temples and thriving cities, etc., that cost
so many years of weary toil and sacrifice, and the
lives of scores who laid the foundation, and are
now resting under the peaceful sod of these val-
leys. The fate of all who fight against this work
may be read in that of Mr. Dickson, who with
others has conceived great things in imagination
over the extirpation of the "foul blot" in Utah,
and in his mad zeal has signed his own political
death warrant. Congressman Tucker is only
another added to the scores who have gone crazy
over the delightful anticipation of plucking up "Mor-
monsim," and he will not be the last. Plenty more
will follow in their wake, and like their predeces-
sors will drift down the same muddy stream, and
be lost in everlasting oblivion. While the quiet,
unassuming people whose rights they are seeking
to take away, and are inflicting with fines, im-
prisonments, and various other outrages upon the
weaker sex, as well as the strong, and in their
blighted hopes, repeatedly set traps to gain their
vicious ends, will complacently walk the same
road that has been marked out for them to follow
which leads upward and onward, leaving the agi-
tators in the hands of the Great Judge who will
repay them with ten fold interest for persecuting
those who cling together in obedience to Him
who said "Unless ye are one ye are not mine."
	The nation is threatened with greater and more
dire calamities than they will ever have power to
bring upon the Latter-day Saints. Its doom is
sealed and the rottenness defies the physician's
art. The "cancer has eaten up its vitals" and no
patching up process can save it. But the Consti-
tution will be preserved through the united efforts
of the faithful of this people who will be the only
ones found who will have remained true to our
nation's flag, and they will bear it off triumphantly.
This is the "ultimate result," and it is nearer than
some of our enemies have surmised; and they will
find a much greater demand at Head quarters for
"national undertakers" than in Utah. Methinks
those who have doomed polygamy to speedy
death are little prepared for the "Great Reaper"
who "has begun the work with His thrice sharp-
ened sickle," as He will hardly regard "public
sentiment" however "great and overwhelmingly
opposed" it may be to "polygamy," or any other
principle that He has seen fit to establish on this
land of promise. No matter if "the popular fiat
has gone forth." Man proposes, but God disposes,
and it is for Him to decide what shall be and what
shall not be "within the limits of a nation conse-
crated to all that is noblest and best in progress
and civilization."
	H. M. WHITNEY.


THE CHOICE OF COMPANIONS.

	In choosing companions our aim should be to
select persons better and more intelligent than we
are, in order that we may profit by their example,
and thus better ourselves.
	It has been very truly and aptly said, that per-
sons may be known by the company they keep;
for those who are naturally good will never be
satisfied, and cannot associate with those of an
inferior or degraded nature.
	Association with persons wiser and better than
ourselves inspires and stimulates, as it gives us a
higher ideal of life, and causes us to seek to attain
a higher standard of perfection for ourselves.
Under such influences our minds cannot fail to
become enlightened and our ideas broadened.  We
profit by the experience of wiser persons almost


without knowing it.  In short, companionship
wields a wonderful influence over the formation
of our characters, and it may be asserted as fact,
that, almost without exception, our aims and ambi-
tion become either elevated or degraded accord-
ing to the society we keep.  In the one case many 
evils may be avoided by the timely advice of some
good, wise companion--on the other, numerous
are the instances where a person's character,
whose chief fault originally was weakness, has
been completely changed for the worse, and at
last ruined, through the pernicious influence of
associates, if not more vicious at least having less
moral force than himself.
     Furthermore, the companions chosen and asso-
ciated with when young are likely to be the kind
which will suit us when old.  Does it not look un-
reasonable to think we can associate with and
take delight in the presence of inferior persons at
one time of our life, and that when we grow older
we will of choice select better?  Such a change
would not, of course, be impossible, and a change for
the better, however late, would be commendable; 
but it most frequently occurs that the same habits,
likes and dislikes cling to us throughout life—
especially those formed and cultivated in youth.
     It is therefore easy to see that the evils arising
from companionship with inferior and uncultivated
persons are numerous, and create blemishes in the
character which are not easily removed.  A person
whose tastes and desires are low, whose ambition,
if such a quality be possessed at all, is not of an
elevating nature, is one to be shunned as a com-
panion.  A human soul properly constituted ought
not to find pleasure in the company of a being
narrow-minded, selfish and disagreeable.  On the
other hand, one who tries to better himself, who
has intellect and character, and is elevated in his
nature and ambition, should be sought after, for
his company is agreeable and good, which latter
quality has a wonderful power to charm.
     "It is astonishing," says Canon Mosely, "how
much good goodness makes.  Nothing that is good
is alone, nor anything bad; it makes others good
or others bad; and that other, and so on: like a
stone thrown into a pond which makes circles that
make other wilder ones, and then others, till the
last reaches the shore."
MAIME.


182	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.
	
	Minutes of the regular meeting held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, March 4th,
1887, Prest. M. I. Horne presiding. Opened by
singing, “What was witnessed in the heavens.”
Prayer by Sister E. Howard. Continued by
singing, “Redeemer of Israel.” Minutes of pre-
vious meeting read and approved, and minutes of
P. A. of the 21st Ward read.
	Sister McLean then reported the 10th Ward
R. S., said they were feeling and doing well; the
poor are attended to as well as possible, and the
teachers are good women; also attended to the
storing of grain; a good spirit prevails. Bore her
testimony to the truth, and asked God to bless us.
	Prest. Horne was pleased to see so many
present; hoped the sisters would be filled with the
Spirit, and said, “If every woman would diffuse
the spirit of the Gospel in her home, she would
realize how great her influence would be on her
husband and children. Let us have our minds
clear of bad feelings towards each other, and have
clean hands and a pure heart. The Lord says,
'He will be no respector of persons, and unless
we keep the commandments, we cannot know
Him,' and this is the time when we require His
help, and He will deliver us if we are only faithful.
Let us also cultivate love towards each other, and
let us so order our lives that we may merit His
smile and approbation.”


Congregational singing, "How firm a founda-
tion."
	Sister E. Howard addressed the meeting, and
said she had been to the Temple; thought it
would be a blessing to us if we put in practice
all we heard there. Hoped there were no timid
hearts here to-day, but that all were strong in the
Lord. We are going into bondage, but if we feel
as we ought to, we should not feel this bondage
so very much. Bro. F. D. Richards has said that
there has not been any immediate revelation that
our bondage is going to be very severe. Prayed
that the Spirit of God would be poured out upon
us, to strengthen and comfort us.
	Sister Reid reported the 16th Ward R. S. They
met twice a month, and have quite a few poor to
attend to; the sisters are all united, and they strive
to do all they are called upon to do by the Bishop.
Bore her testimony, and desired to stand firm and
faithful.
	Sister Richards thanked the sisters for their
faith and prayers, which they had manifested in
her behalf; thanked the Lord that she was enabled
to help herself, and mingle with us once more.
	(Sister Dye realized that the teachings of our
Savior are being verified to-day. She spoke in
tongues, the interpretation being given by Sister
Paul.)
	Sister Stevenson loved to meet with the Saints.
We should feed our minds with the literature of
this Church, and not study fashion as we do.
	Dr. E. S. Barney then spoke for a short time.
Had been visiting in Arizona, and lecturing to
the Saints on different subjects; had enjoyed her
trip, and also the feelings of the sisters in the
south. Conversed with many; also said that the
Saints are suffering more than we have any idea
of. Gave other good counsel in regard to storing
up wheat, sugar, rice and beans. Prayed God to
bless us.
	Quite a number of the sisters bore faithful testi-
monies, and Prest. Horne adjourned the meeting
for four weeks.
	Closed by singing, "The time is far spent."
Benediction by Sister E. S. Taylor.
		J. SMELLIA, Sec.


[Column 1]
	THE HAWAIIAN QUEEN
	
	IN SAN FRANCISCO.
			
	PERSONNEL OF HER SUITE.
	
	The long expected steamer Australia arrived
early yesterday morning from Honolulu, and
was saluted by Fort Mason, Alcatraz and H.
B. M. ship Conquest, as she brought to this city
Queen Kapiolani of Hawaii and her numerous
retinue. The vessel was boarded by the port
authorities and various press representatives
before she docked, as the latter were anxious to
catch a glimpse of her Majesty ere she hedged
herself in the impenetrability that surrounds
royalty.
	The Queen was upon deck as the steamer
came into port and was taking her first look at
a large city through a pair of glasses. She
had on an ulster of some warm grayish material,
and though her face bore evidences of fatigue,
yet there was noticeable a kindly expression in
her eyes, which betokened a character of ex-
treme gentleness. The Queen is a woman
of about 40 years of age, of large size, stout in
frame, and vigorous of constitution, and her
sympathetic cast of countenance makes her
face attractive even to handsomeness. She is
a woman of great generosity and enlightenment,
and has done all that lay in her power toward
the alleviation of those distressed with that
terrible curse of leprosy. Through her exer-
tions the Kapiolani Home for leper girls was

[Column 2]
founded, $15,000 being appropriated for that
purpose by the Hawaiian Legislature in 1884.
She also interests herself in the various public
gardens, schools and hospitals with which her
kingdom is supplied.
	The Queen graciously received such gentle-
men as were presented to her, but the conversa-
tion was carried on through the medium of Her
Royal Highness, the Princess Liliuokalani,  
who, unlike the Queen, speaks English fluently.
Under the circumstances it cannot be expected
that her Majesty would have much to say, be-
yond that she felt some regret at having left
home, and that every thing appeared strange
to her, it being the first time that she had ever
left her native land; that her plans were as yet
indefinite, but that she hoped to make a stay
of about a week in San Francisco, and would
then leave for New York, en route to England.
	On her arrival at the Palace Hotel her
Majesty and the lady members of her suite
were ushered into the rooms which had been
prepared for them, while the gentlemen of the
party amused themselves by parading the corri-
dors, and receiving the congratulations of the
numerous ex-residents of Honolulu who had
congregated there to see them.
	The party is under the charge of Colonel
Curtis Iaukea, Governor of Oaku, and the
King's Chamberlain. He is a tall man of
soldierly appearance, with a light brown com-
plexion, a slight mustache, expressive eyes and 
dignified manner. He said that the Queen im-
mediately on her arrival at the Palace Hotel
had sought the privacy of her rooms, and had
intimated, for the day at least, she would be
invisible to everybody, as she wished to rest
after the week’s voyage.
	“Yes,” said the Colonel, “it is, as the Queen
has already told you, her first departure from 
home, and you know the peculiar sensations
that attend people when for the first time they
find themselves separated from the associations
of childhood. But it has long been her ardent
desire to see something of the world, and
especially to see England and her ruler. This, 
as you are aware, is the jubilee year in Eng-
land, and Queen Kapiolani wishes to be present 
and pay her respects to the woman who rules
one of the greatest empires in the world. It
is not surprising that she should admire Eng-
land. There are many Englishmen in the em-
ploy of the Hawaiian Government, and their
conversation has naturally excited the curiosity
of so enlightened a lady. England though is
not the only objective point of the journey.
We shall see as much of the United States as
possible, and also of Europe.”
“Yes,” continued the Colonel, “I have been
abroad before. I was in Russia at the present
Czar's coronation, and so all is not new to me.
My wife, you know, is one of the ladies in
waiting upon her Majesty.”
Among the notable gentlemen of the party 
is Colonel J. H. Boyd, who is Secretary to the
Queen. He is a young man with English
mutton-chop whiskers, and wore a light crush-
hat, a frock coat and a pair of light-colored
pantaloons. Mr. Boyd found many old friends
awaiting him at the Palace Hotel, and seemed
thoroughly at home.
	“I wish,” said he, “that that absurd state-
ment about the Queen bringing the royal band
should be flatly contradicted. It was never in-
tended to be brought, and I cannot see how
such a statement could ever have been pub-
lished.”
“Nothing is true that is ever published about
the islands,” interjected a jovial looking per-
sonage by the name of H. J. Hart, who is the
restaurateur in ordinary to the Queen and the
entire nobility of the kingdom, “is it Colonel?”
The officer of the royal forces did not make 
a very forcible reply to his strong appeal, but
quietly remarked:
	“There was, indeed, quite a stir when we left


Honolulu, a week ago to-day. The army turned
out, the navy saluted, the whole population of
the island seemed to be massed upon the shore
to say good-by to their beloved Queen. In-
deed, it was an affecting scene."
	"Indeed it was," broke in the restaurateur,
who it is alleged, is on the still hunt for a man
who can make ice cream and digestible pastry
on a small salary. "The Hawaiian people
are very fond of the alloa, that is, the farewell.
Ah, indeed, it would have made you weep to
have seen the spectacle of an adored Queen
leaving that sunlit isle of the sea, where the
gorgeous palms and the snake-like sugar cane
rustle in the evening breeze. Grandest country
on earth, sir. Fact. Fancy, our exports
were $12,000,000 last year."
	The Quartermaster-General of the army,
Colonel Samuel Nowlein, is also in the party
and will accompany her Majesty to England,
and will then take his daughter to Italy. The
young lady is an artist of exceptional ability,
and it is understood that she shall be placed
at one of the leading art schools in Italy, so
that her talents may be properly developed.
	His Excellency, John O. Dominis, Com-
mander-in-Chief of the military forces, was
the only gentleman who was not seen in the
corridors of the Palace Hotel. The voyage
had not been a happy one for him, and he
had accordingly retired. He is the husband of
her Royal Highness, the Princess Liliuokalani,
the heir apparent to the throne. He is about
45 years of age, and is five years older than
the Queen. General Dominis, the future
Prince consort to the expectant Hawaiian
Queen, is a European, and is about 55 years of
age.
	The Hawaiians seem to be jubilant over
their success in raising money in England, and
say that their credit in that country is good for
any amount.
	When it was hinted that England was an
exacting money-lender, and wanted her debt
even unto the uttermost farthing, there was a
very spontaneous answer from the statesmen
present, that "as soon as England gives us any
trouble about wanting her money, we will come
over here and borrow it and tell England we
want nothing to do with her." The Hawaiian
party was so delighted with its treatment by
Captain H. G. Howlett that no sooner had its
members finished their toilets than they sallied
forth, bought a handsome gold watch, had his
initials and an appropriate inscription engraved
upon it, and presented it to the Captain of the
Australia, as an evidence of their esteem and
gratitude.—The Chronicle.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

MARICOPA STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of this Stake was held March 25th, 1887,
at the residence of our President, E. G. Mc-
Donald, commencing at 1 p.m., Prest. E. G.
McDonald presiding. The meeting opened
with singing and prayer, after which the
minutes of the previous conference were read
and approved.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald was thankful to
meet with the sisters again; she realized the in-
convenience of the place of meeting, but it
could not be avoided, school being kept in our
Society Hall. She prayed that the Spirit of
the Lord might be with us that we might have
a joyful time together.
	The presidents of the different branches in
the Stake gave in the reports of their respective
Societies, showing an increased exertion on the
part of most of the members to do their part,
and be alive to their duties, while others evinced
a corresponding slackness and neglect of their
duties; thus it is, but those who perform the
labor will verily receive the reward, while those

[Column 2]

who are slothful will see their error and loss
when it is too late.  The names of the officers
of the Relief Society were then presented be-
fore the Conference, and were unanimously
sustained.
	The statistical and financial reports were
read by the Secretary, the financial report
making a pretty fair showing, considering the
hard times.
	Remarks were then made by a number of
sisters, who expressed their firm belief in the
principles of the everlasting Gospel as revealed
through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and their
desires ever to be faithful to their duties.
	Some of the brethren who were present were
then requested to speak:
	Bro. Charles Allen had been well pleased
with the exercises, and could bear testimony
that the Spirit of the Lord had dictated the
remarks that had been made. He felt that the
Relief Society was a power in the midst of this
people, and exhorted all to prepare themselves
for the events that were near at our doors.
Bro. Heber had said, "A test was coming,
and we must be true to our religion, if we de-
sired to stand." The speaker referred to tith-
ing and the word of wisdom, and the great
blessings promised to those who obeyed these
laws, and gave many good instructions.
	Bro. George Lewis felt to endorse what had
been said, and felt that woman's influence was
a power in the land, and should be exercised
for good. In order to do this we should keep
the Spirit of God in our hearts, that we may
seek eternal life above every earthly object.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald then addressed the
meeting. She had felt to rejoice in the testi-
monies that had been borne by the brethren
and sisters, and felt that there was a spirit of
good created by these meetings. We should
use all the influence we have against selling
our homes to those who are not of our faith.
If we are neglectful of our inheritance we
shall receive a chastening from the hands of
our enemies, and the innocent will have to suf-
fer with the guilty. She exhorted the sisters to
visit the sick, to be as angels of mercy in the
sick chamber, and cheer the hearts of those
who are bowed down in trouble and sorrow.
	Sister Crismon, of Salt Lake, expressed her
pleasure in meeting with the sisters of Mesa;
she had enjoyed the meeting very much, and
felt that the Spirit of the Lord was in our
midst; she believed there was a good people
here, for she had felt this spirit in all their
meetings. She spoke highly of the beauty of
our country, and said she had enjoyed her visit
very much.
	Conference was then adjourned for three
months.
		S. M. POMEROY.

UTAH STAKE.
	(Utah Stake Conference of the Relief So-
ciety, held March 4th, 1887, Prest. John
presiding. Conference opened with the usual
exercises of singing and prayer.) The minutes
of the previous meeting were read, as were
also the reports for the past six months.
The President requested the presidents of the
various branches of the Society to give verbal
reports, which was done with few exceptions,
after which Sister John expressed herself as
feeling well in meeting with the sisters and
listening to such good reports. She believed
that the sisters are faithful in their duties, and
exhorted them to continue faithful, that they
may claim the blessings of God.
	Sister Marilla Daniels said: We must seek
the Lord earnestly for His Spirit, for we need
to be humble and prayerful, and to be charit-
able one to another; and inasmuch as we all
need it ourselves, we must have sympathy for
each other. We are told that we shall be
tried and tested, but we must try to keep the

[Column 3]

Spirit of the Lord with us continually; we are
in His hands, and He is our only defense; we
need not fear if we each have His Spirit, for we
will then feel that come what may we will be
faithful.
	(Sister Roberts of Goshen, was impressed to
speak to the sisters with the spirit of prophecy,
and uttered comforting words to the sisters
through the influence of that spirit.)
	2 p.m.  Conference opened with singing
and prayer by Patriarch Zebedee Coltrin.
	Sister Minerva Snow said: "I feel pleasure
in these associations, and I desire to be one
with you, for we are all helping to roll forth
Father's work, and I do not know of anything
that is more important than to help build up
His kingdom. We should be faithful and dili-
gent in every duty that we are called upon to
perform. The hand of God is moving among
the nations of the earth, and God will carry
us through this persecution if we are faithful
and rely upon Him, and no matter what we
endure, our reward will be the riches of eter-
nity."
	Sister Hyde of Sanpete, said she had come
as a listener; never felt more like enduring to
the end than to-day. We must be zealous in
the cause of Christ, and serve the Lord with
all our hearts. The speaker felt that her
hearers were on the Lord's side, and declared
that it is our own fault if we do not have the
Spirit of the Lord, through not living up to
our privileges.
	Sister Taylor from Salt Lake City, spoke of
our testimony, that this is the work of God,
and alluded to the perfect character of our
organizations, like which there is nothing in
the world. We must be in subjection to the
will of God, for darkness is hovering over us.
Though we may feel that we are driven to the
wall, yet we know that God rules, and we can
trust Him. Perhaps all of us do not have the
faith that we should have. Do we remember
that we have the promise that we can come to
Him and ask for things and take no denial.
The Relief Society has a great and important
mission to perform, and each of us must try to
work out our own salvation. To the speaker
the Gospel was dearer to-day than ever it
was.
	Prest. Smoot occupied the remainder of the
afternoon in speaking to and instructing the
sisters, very little of which can be given in
these minutes. He hoped, first of all, what he
did say would cheer them on their way, and
spoke then of the action of Congress in taking
the franchise from the women of Utah. This
however, he felt would be only fer a short sea-
son, for the Lord has pointed out our destinies,
if we do our part. The Lord chastens whom
He loves, every son and daughter—He afflicts,
us that we may become easy and pliable to
handle like clay in the hands of the potter,
and that He may be able to bring us back into
His presence, and in no instance have His peo-
ple been slow to acknowledge the justice of
His acts. We, as a people, have become filled
with vanity and pride, and many here to-day
will remember how humble we were when we
first came to these valleys and lived upon roots
and greens. When pride takes possession of
us we must be chastised and humbled, and the
clouds hanging over us to-day indicate that
perhaps the Lord is not well pleased with us
to-day. Let us ask ourselves, have we forgot
the Lord? Have we taught our children to
love the follies of Babylon? President Young
in his day warned all to retrench in their ex-
travagances, and for a time there was a reform,
but it did not last long. Much responsibility
rests on the mothers, that they fail not to teach
their daughters the truths of the Gospel, and
to worship God. There is enough means ex-
pended unnecessarily among the Latter-day
Saints to build a temple every year. If there
is trouble over us let us ask ourselves, why is it?


I ask you all to reform, that the Lord may
bless us. Amen.
	The President, Sister John, felt that the
Lord had been with us in our conference. We
will now adjourn for three months. Singing,
"Praise God from whom all blessings flow," etc.
Benediction by Bro. David John.
	CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec.


184	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


This is what a foreign newspaper, the Eng-
lishwoman's Review, in an article written before
the adjournment of the late American Congress,
has to say of the Edmunds-Tucker bill: "A more
serious danger threatens the women of
Utah Territory, where they have voted for
many years. The bills which have been
passed of late years for the suppression of
polygamy among the Mormons, disfranchised
either man or woman who entered into what
is there termed 'plural marriage.' There was,
at least, no special injustice towards women in
this measure, but the last bill which has passed
both houses of Congress makes it unlawful for
any woman to vote in any election. It is evi-
dent that this clause in the bill will go far to
defeat any Christianising influence which the
supporters of the first measure might expect.
If the object of the United States Government
be to depress Mormonism by its partial disfran-
chisement and the consequent increase of im-
portance in the Gentile vote, it stultifies itself
by cutting off one-half of the Gentile voters,
and reducing them to the same position of
political powerlessness. The injustice of dis-
franchising, without reason given, any class
which has for years enjoyed political rights is,
moreover, so flagrant, that it is to be hoped
this bill will not receive the President's signa-
ture in its present form."


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	The following Resolutions of Respect for our beloved
sister, Miss Mary Ann Morgan, born Feb. 18th, 1868, and
died Feb. 12th, 1887, were unanimously adopted and sus-
tained by the members of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Willard, of
which she was a member:
	Whereas, In His infinite wisdom, the Almighty has seen
fit to take from our midst our beloved sister and co-laborer,
Mary Ann Morgan, who for several years has been a mem-
ber and Secretary of our Association, where, by her affable,
loving and affectionate disposition, she gained the confidence
and esteem of all, therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with the be-
reaved family in the loss of a loving daughter and an affec-
tionate sister.  While we mourn her loss and regret her de-
parture hence, we feel to bow in subservience to the will
of the Great Jehovah, for we know she was prepared to
meet her Master, and that she has left behind a record
that will never die, for in the hearts of her friends she still
lives; and, be it further
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be sent to
the bereaved family, that a copy be placed upon the minutes
of the Association, and that one be sent to the EXPONENT
for publication.
	MARION S. PERRY, President,
	LOTTIE E HUBBARD, Secretary.


OBITUARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DIED, at Manti City, Sanpete Co., Utah, April 16th,
1887, after a very long illness and much suffering, Sister
Elizabeth Ruesch. She was born December 6th, 1840, in
St. Margretten, Canton St. Gallen, Switzerland. Bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
October 16th, 1872, and emigrated the following year. She
was the mother of eight children, and leaves a husband,
six children and many friends to mourn her loss. Sister
Ruesch was a loving mother and a faithful wife, a good
and faithful Latter-day Saint; she was also a faithful teacher
	the Relief Society for several years, until her health was


gone. We feel comforted in the hope that she will come
forth in the resurrection of the just. Peace to her ashes!
						A. R. KELLER, Secretary.
	In behalf of the South Ward R. S.

	With mournful feelings, deepened by present circum-
stances, I record the much unexpected death of Sister
Mary H. Hansen, wife of J. Hansen, who is now on a
mission to Denmark. She was in apparent good health
about 4 o'clock p.m., Sunday, and at 12 o'clock on Mon-
day, March 28th, she lay a corpse, fourteen hours after
giving birth to a little boy, who also died. She was the
daughter of Hans and Ellen Jorgensen Knude, and was
born on the 22nd of November, 1854, in Thorby, Lolland,
Denmark. She heard and embraced the Gospel in 1880,
and immediately began to use her influence to emigrate
herself and sister. Her exertions were not in vain, for in
the fall of 1881 both came to Utah, where they have lived
in peace, and gained the confidence and esteem of their
acquaintances. On March 14th, 1884, she chose to live in
polygamy, knowing that plural marriage was a divine law,
and would prove an inestimable blessing to those who would
enter it with pure motives, and an eye single to the glory
of God. She leaves a host of friends to venerate her
memory, a son, aged one year and seven months, to per-
petuate her name, and a loving husband to mourn her de-
parture.
							KAREN A. HANSEN.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.

	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the "French Craze" for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
landscapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon recept of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I'd Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy's Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won't You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don't Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock; Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor's Hall;  Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack's Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS
	
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address.  DAVID JAMES.  Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.
		
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

