VOL. 15.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1886.	No. 14.


CHRISTMAS NIGHT.

In all this boasted land of happy homes,
   How many circles are complete to-night?
How many round their festive firesides come
   Without a vacancy or sorrow’s blight?
Fancy paints many brilliant, happy throngs,
   Where beauty, wealth, and splendid grandeur beam;
While feasting, music, dance and joyous songs,
   Make bliss upon the earth, 'twould seem;
But could we look into each secret soul,
   Would we there find response to this display?
Would we not see behind this self control
   That bleeding hearts in agony hold sway?
Thus incompleteness seems to be to man,
   While on this earth a common legacy;
Let him seek perfect joy where’er he can,
   For from earth’s ills he never will be free,
Because our Father did not so ordain.
   That our brief lives should be devoid of ill,
Nor free from disappointment, care and pain;
   Ah, no! He had an object greater still.	
Here on this earth, created for man’s sake,
   He placed, with agencies, His chosen few,
That they might of the good and ill partake,
   And learn to judge between the two.
But there will come a Christmas holiday—
   The glorious natal day of heaven’s Son,
When all the world combined will stay
   To give their praises to that Holy One.
Then every land in perfect joy’ll abound,
   No mortal fears will then beset the soul; 
Nor will there in immortal hearts be found
   One weakness that demands control.
Then every nation, people, kindred tongue,
   With one accord will bow the pliant knee;
And glorious praise and anthems will be sung,
   Whilst Gods and angels shout, “Oh, Zion’s free!”
							     E. R. SHIPP.
Philadelphia, Dec. 25, 1876.


[Column 1]
	CHRISTMAS TABLEAUX.
		
	I sat and looked into the fire on Christmas
Eve, when all the folks in the house were fast
asleep, and I saw some queer things, and heard
some strange noises, and shadows flitted about
me, which made a very great impression upon
me, and I scarcely knew if I was awake or
dreaming.
   I heard the prattle of little children, and
the merry laugh, that rang through the rooms,
and the silvery echoes of childish voices seemed
to vibrate in the air, and picture after picture
framed themselves so vividly that I could al-
most fancy they were real.
   One was a very large kitchen, with an im-
mense fireplace, and great pine logs were
blazing high, and on the ceiling overhead, on
long strips of wood, there were rows of yellow
pumpkin cut in rings and hung to dry, and on
the wall, bright pewter pans and cups, polished
until you might see your face in them.  A long
handled, brass warming-pan, and many other
things familiar to my childhood were there,
and the little children were playing hide and
seek, and calling out of corners and closets
that seemed innumerable.  They had such a
jolly game! and an old man, very old—they
called him grandpa—was watching them and
laughing as heartily as any of the crowd when
one was caught and dragged from the hiding
place.  The wind was whistling shrill outside,
and the great elms fairly groaned, but the
children heeded it not, only now and then they
stopped for a moment to listen to the music of
the night wind.  Such rare music borne on the
wind in a winter night!  What voices there

[Column 2]
are, and what wonderful things they tell to
those who listen.	
   I pause, and close my eyes to shut out the
sight, for it is all too real, and another, just as
true to life, but different, presents itself on the
instant.
   I wander in the woods.  A crowd of boys
and girls are there, and they are gathering
long trailing vines of evergreens and twining
them round each other.  How beautiful they
look!  They have filled their baskets with
these woodland trophies, vines and boughs kept
green all the long, cold, dreary winter, and they
laugh and talk and sing snatches of songs, and
their notes die away in the distance among the
rocks and trees, and I listen for the last faint
echo, and start again, trying to remember the
words of the song I once knew so well, and I
ask myself, “Where are those boys and girls”
—companions of my youth?
		"I call to mind, but cannot find
		   The forms I once loved well;
		Where have ye fled ye vanished?
		   I ask, ye do not tell;
		I search, I roam, abroad, at home,
		   I seek each much loved spot;
		My labor ends, but ye, dear friends,
		   Like Rachel's babes, are not.”
I reach out my hands in utter unconsciousness,
but they fall heavily down, and a great sob
swells up in my throat, and I feel as though I
were stifling.  Outside the wind is moaning, and
every now and then the dry leaves come whirl-
ing up in little clusters like a flock of living
things, and beat against the windows of my
room.  My pen has fallen from my hand—I
was trying to write, and breathless I listen, as
though some one were coming long expected.
My heart beats quickly, and solemn thoughts
of loved ones long departed to that other, bet-
ter land stir my soul to its inmost depths.  But
they come not, even though we long to get but
a glimpse of them, a clasp of the hand, a sign,
a word, a token only of their love and recogni-
tion.  We almost feel their presence near us
when we are quite alone with our own commun-
ings, but there is no visible, no tangible form
or figure.  Memory can recall their faces and
their loving words, and it is blissful even to
recollect the saintly guise they wore on earth,
and feel that now they are freed from the sor-
rows and trials through which we who remain
are passing.
		“Life is real, life is earnest,”
and so we find it, with much that is painful to
bear, and many disappointments, but now and
again, in the sharpest suffering of mind, there
comes a respite, given in mercy to the weary
soul; hours when God seems near in a living
presence to soothe and comfort.  It comes some-
times in answer to prayer and supplication,
and we are strengthened unconsciously for the
renewal of the battle of life.  But more often
we are left to grope our way along, calling in
vain for help, because our Father wills that we
should walk alone, that we may learn to be a
guide to others.
   How still it is, this house once so full of life
and gaiety.  What a change has swept like a
burning, scorching fire over the place.  No
wonder I sit like one entranced; and yet the
fire burns just as brightly as it did when all
was happy and joyous, years ago.  I hear the
night wind shriek and howl, and then the low,
mournful dirge that follows is like a hymn for
the dead, plaintive and thrilling.

[Column 3]
Once there was so much noise within we
could scarce hear the sounds outside, but now
they mock me with their incessant din, when I
am soliloquizing as to-night, and all alone with
my own thoughts.  And yet the wind is a relief,
I would not have it otherwise; a dead calm is
monotonous; there is no poetry, no romance in
it.  But I have been digressing, talking of my-
self; let me come back to the tableaux, that
come for a moment, and then vanish one after
the other.
   The room is full of beautiful young faces,
and there’s a sound of music, now soft and
sweet it ripples along, and I distinguish two fa-
miliar voices, that blend in perfect harmony,
and a voiceless melody, that keeps perfect time
to these,played with a lovely hand.  I can even
see the sapphire gem upon it, that sparkles in
the faint light; that hand, thin and white,
sweeps across the strings of the guitar, and not
a discord mars the sounds that float around
me like enchantment; but they die away slowly,
growing fainter and more indistinct, and other
music, not so dreamy, but more bold and full
in tone, strikes upon my ear, and with it there’s
a sound of whistling; can it be the wind?  Per-
haps it was, but I fancied it was more human
and not quite so weird withal.  O memory!
what sanctity thou bringest with thee, when the
mind is “thrown back upon the past;” what
hallowed reminiscences are those that accom-
pany the shadowy tableaux from out of the in-
visible.  A sweet influence, a holy peace is
diffused around me, and for the moment I am
so absorbed that I take no note of the present.
   Yet there are many happy homes to-night,
where mirth and festivity reign, and little
children look for Santa Claus, and with the
enthusiasm of mystery, question and listen and
peep here and there for tokens of his coming.
The children’s Christmas! Their full happiness
is more than aught else to the older ones, save
it may be to those who sit and dream like me,
and live over again the scenes that waken such
delightful retrospections.
   Hark! there comes a low rich music like that
of an aeolian harp, so tender and pathetic that
it brings the tears, soft tears, that fall like
summer rain, and do me good.  I pause and
listen; there is no one else astir.  I creep care-
fully up the stairs; the music is above me still,
but it is weird enough to frighten one more
courageous than I am.  I climb another flight,
and the wind puts out my light.  The moon-
light streams in pale upon the bare, cold floor,
and the wild, irregular melody comes, as it
were, from some unknown source.  I look
around me; there are many quaint old things,
that have been thrown here from time to time
as useless rubbish, and the night breeze plays
in and out the broken window panes, and the
loose casement rattles, but ’twas none of these
that brought me to the garret at this unseemly
hour.  Again the trembling, quivering notes
sweep past me, like what we read of in old
castles among the towers and turrets, rude, per-
haps, but more thrilling than the exquisite
touch of one accustomed to the finest ivory
keys; and though I have a taste for the mysteri-
ous, yet I discover--and it pleases me as well--
the music comes from the guitar so often
played upon by one now known no more among
the living; the wind has strayed in through
some crack or crevice, and has swept across
the threadbare strings and through the time-
worn instrument, and in the stillness of the
night, when one's nerves are overwrought with


emotions that flood the soul to overflowing, one
might well mistake it for a strain of music out
of the unknown realms, played by a seraph's
hand.
	While I retrace the way to my corner by
the fire, to resume my soliloquy, my thoughts
have flown far, far away to another land, to
one, an exile, who sits alone, perchance, and
out of the solemn silence of the night fancies
he hears the music of the past over again, and
the dry leaves rustling and "the voices in the
wind" may be to him, as to me, not only re-
minders of the past, but prophetic harbingers
of the future, when those now cruelly separated
may clasp hands again, and the desolate homes
be filled with glad songs of praise and thanks-
giving.
		AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		DECLINE OF POPULATION IN
		     RURAL MASSACHUSETTS.
   We return again to this sombre subject.
We are to deal mostly, in this article, with dry
statistics, but they will show whether people
are crowding into cities and villages, or spread-
ing out over the land to till the soil, or, at least,
to have quiet residences.
   I suppose the reader to know that small
manufacturing places are becoming obsolete.
Business has been going to the cities and into 
the hands of large corporations.  Those de
lightful dells and groups of houses, where once
axes, or shovels, or scythes, or something else
were made, with not a large shop, nor a great
factory--places in and around which there
used to be centered so much that was genial,
social, so much of the very nectar of human
happiness--have largely become silent, going
to decay.  We will be thankful they are not
utterly extinct.  The city, or a large, noisy,
ambitious village, has drawn the business to
itself and concentrated it into great, towering
affairs, all  under one capital and head.
	The census of Massachusetts for 1875 says:
"The number of towns in which the popula-
tion has decreased is 142.  The losses have 
taken place in small farming towns, as a rule,
remote from markets, and not well accomo-
dated by railroads.
	"Massachusetts, of the United States, stands
seventh in rank as to total population.  For
density of population this state stands first in
rank, having, in 1875, 211.78 persons to the
square mile.
	"The population of Massachusetts for 1885 
is put down as 2,153,597.  Now notice what 
follows:  The centre of population of the state
is within one mile of the State House, while
the geographical or territorial center is near
Lake Quinsigamond, within the city of Wor-
cester."
	What a preponderance Boston has!  Its
population is 390,406; voters, 89,851.  Again:
"The cities of Boston, Cambridge, Chelsea, and
Somerville, and the towns of Arlington, Bel-
mont, Brookline, Everett, Malden, Medford,
Melrose, Revere, Watertown, Winchester and
Winthrop, comprising territory within a radius
of eight miles from the State House, contains
480,419 people, or 29 per cent of the whole
population of the state.  The same cities and
towns, in 1865, had a population of 352,577,
showing a gain of 127,842, or 36 per cent.  If
the radius be extended to twelve miles from
the State House, and to the cities and towns
enumberated there be added the cities of Lynn
and Newton, and the towns of Braintree Ded-
ham, Hyde Park, Hull, Lexington, Lynnfield,
Milton, Nahant, Needham, Quincy, Reading,
Saugus, Stoneham, Swamscott, Wakefield,
Waltham and Woburn, it is found that Boston
and territory within twelve miles have a popu-
lation of 603,909, or 36 per cent of the whole
population of the state."  Still again:   "The 
relative population in cities and towns in the

[Column 2]
state has changed the balance, in 1875, to the 
side of the cities; in 1865, the towns had 762,
344, and the cities 504,687; now the cities
show 836,933, and the towns 814,979; balance
in favor of the cities was 257,657.  To sum-
marize, the gain in the whole state since 1865
has been 30 per cent; in the cities 44 per cent,
in the towns 18 per cent.—"Census of 1875.
	The contrasting tendencies are growing
more divergent, as we shall show by a few ex-
amples:  Adams from 1865 to 1875 nearly 
doubled its population.  It has large manufac-
turing interests.  Florida, a farming town east
of Adams, on the mountains, had in 1865, 1173;
in 1875, 572; a decrease of 601 in only ten
years!  In the above decade Worcester gained
19,262; Fitchburg, 4,171; Spencer, 2,427; South-
bridge, 1,609.  Since 1875 Worcester has
gained 19,066.  In the same time Charlton,
twelve miles from Worcester, has lost 30.
	Charlton is one of a line of fine farming
towns, beginning with North Orange, going
south-east through Athol, Petersham, Barre,
Brookfield, and Dudley, and across Connecti-
cut to the Sound.  On this stretch, as else-
where, wherever the sustentation of the num-
ber of inhabitants has depended upon the in-
terest in agriculture there has been a decrease,
no matter what the contiguity to markets, or
the excellence of the soil.   "Of the towns
and cities in Worcester county, 19 show a gain
and 39 a loss."  And this is the central county
of the state, reaching from New Hampshire to 
Connecticut.  The counties of Barnstable,
Dukes and Nantucket have lost as counties.
The soil is sandy, but they have the glorious 
advantages of the sea.  Were the country new,
and to be settled by such as the ancient Greeks
or Phoenicans, into these counties would they
crowd the most.  The town of Barnstable de-
clined 626 in population within ten years;
Sandwich, 741.  Sixteen towns in Franklin
county, 17 in Berkshire are losing inhabitants.
In the former, Shutesbury, not unknown to po-
litical agitations of earlier days, sitting upon
its  high hills, in ten years fell away by 230
persons.  In Hampshire county, Cummington,
where Bryant was born, Pelham, which heard
the notorious Burrows preach, and thirteen
other towns are on a decline.  In Middlesex
county such towns as Dracut, Groton and Sud-
bury are losing.  In Essex county we have to 
pity the townships, as Amesbury and old An-
dover, not to extend the list.  In Norfolk
county we must compassionate Dedham itself,
sweet Milton, peaceful Sharon, Randolph,
Houghton  and  Wrentham.   In Plymouth
county Abington has almost committed suicide,
and we must commiserate Bridgewater, Dux-
bury, East Bridgewater, Halifax, Kingston,
Lakeville, Marion, Mattapoisett, Pembroke,
Plympton, Rochester and West Bridgewater.
In Suffolk county even Winthrop is on a de-
cline.—Ex.					 L. H.


[Column 1]

LETTER FROM SHOW LOW,
ARIZONA.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that perhaps a few items from our
little place in the pines would not be amiss, I
will try to pen a few thoughts and ideas upon
paper.
	Our little place begins to look somewhat
lonesome since so many have moved away,
only eleven families remaining, and we do not
expect to keep our dear President long, as she
is expecting to go to her husband, who, like
many more, is an exile from his home. In the
beginning of June the scarlet fever broke out
here, causing lots of sickness and quite a num-
ber of deaths among the children. Sister
Laura Wood from Bountiful, Davis Co., buried
all her children—three beautiful little girls and
one sweet baby boy—this making six they have

[Column 2]

had pass away to a better world, having had
two die in Utah with the diphtheria. It does
seem hard to part with the dear ones we love
so well, but we must be tried as gold seven
times, to purify us for our Maker's presence. I
have eight children, and they were all sick
with the fever, but all recovered except my
little babe. I send a few lines that I composed
to his memory.
	The sickness and deaths in the community
have caused quite a melancholy time. There
were seven deaths in less than two months, and
there being so few in this place, and fewer still
who care to attend their meetings, we are like 
the parable of the fish, we are mixed and of 
many kinds.
	There has been but one Relief Society
meeting held this summer, and that was held
on the 7th of this month, there being only four
present, which was very discouraging to Presi-
dent Whipple. She is a good woman, and so
are her Counselors. We have held several
meetings consisting of President, Counselors
and Secretary, but we enjoyed the Spirit of the
Lord whenever we met. Some of the sisters
live quite a way off, perhaps that is one cause
of their not attending more; but, hoping that
we may all live more closely to the Lord, and
see the error of our ways—for the time has
come when we must do right ourselves whether
our neighbors do or not, and, hoping to always
enjoy the good spirit, we remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		HARRIET WHIPPLE,
		MARY A. MCNEIL.

HONOR TO WHOM HONOR IS DUE.

	At Pima, Arizona, a pleasant and enjoyable 
surprise was given to Stake President of Re-
lief Society, Wilmirth East, on Wednesday,
Nov. 17th, it being her sixty-second birthday,
by the Relief Society and Young Ladies' Asso-
ciations of the St. Joseph Stake. About 250
of the brethren and sisters were present, among
whom was President Layton, who spoke in
high terms of praise of the way in which Sis-
ter East had performed her labors as President
of the Relief Society of St. Joseph Stake; said
she was truly a mother in Israel; always on
hand to administer to the sick and needy, and
give words of encouragement to those who were
called to mourn, or to those who were inclined
to stray from the path of duty. Said he hoped
all would enjoy themselves, and be benefited
by coming together on such a pleasant occasion,
The remainder of the afternoon was spent in
singing and giving recitations, and in pleasant
conversation.
	Sister East was the recipient of some hand-
some presents from the branches of the Relief
Society of Pima, Central, Thatcher and Layton,
and from the Y. L. M. I. Associations of the
above named settlements. Sister East spoke
a short time; said it had been a complete sur-
prise; thanked all for the honor they had
shown her, and for the gifts bestowed, and
hoped with the help of God to be always
worthy of their love and esteem, after which
all partook of the plentiful repast that was
spread before them, and then returned to
their homes, feeling benefited by meeting to-
gether.
	LAURA NUTTALL, Sec.


﻿The second "Mother's Meeting" of this sea-
son, at the Woman's Educational and Industrial
Union, 74 Boylston Street, Boston, will be
conducted by Mrs. Julia Ward Howe.
	One of the leading charities of New Orleans
is called the "Society of the Ladies Servants
of the Poor." It was established in 1861, the
first year of the rebellion, to assist destitute
families of respectability and provide for the
wants of old and infirm "gentlewomen."—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For	the EXPONENT.]
EPITAPH.

Life was full of pain and tears,
	And hopes doomed to defeat,
Of grief-rent hours and bitter years,
	That death, at last, is sweet.
Dear Lord, a heap of helpless clay,
	Fettered and prison-walled,
Lies here until the promised day,
	Waiting to be called.

Sweet dreams of how I shall rejoice,
	And burst these prison walls,
When first that loved and loving voice
	In heavenly music calls.
Make every atom of this dust
	To thrill with deep delight;
Oh! call me with the pure and just
	To dwell with thee in light.

		LUELLE.


THE ATLANTIC OCEAN.

A REVERIE.

BY M. J. TANNER.

	As I gaze upon the ocean,
	Thrilis my heart with fond emotion,
And the wind is blowing chilly on the shore;
	While the waves are secrets telling,
	And their bosoms gently swelling,
As they dash upon the breakers with a roar.

	And I think upon the rhymes
	I have read so many times,
For surely they are written by the score;
	And I think how grand a theme
	It must be for poets dream,
As I bring to mind some long forgotten lore.

	And I listen here and ponder,
	For my heart is growing fonder,
As I think of all the tales I've read of yore,
	And I know that when I leave thee
	My heart will often grieve me,
For I'll listen to thy beating never more.

	Oh, thou great, mysterious ocean!
	Holdest thou no warm emotion—
Holdest thou no secret sigh in mem'ry's store?
	Can your heart, without pulsation,
	Hold the secrets of a nation,
That we read not as we search your bosom o'er?

	Who shall tell the wondrous story,
	As the world with ages hoary
Binds the pride of many nations gone before,
	And the spirits o'er thee gliding,
	And the souls their time abiding,
When the trumps shall sound their requiem evermore.

	When thy depths shall not be hidden.
	Nor the argosies unbidden
Sent to sleep beneath thine ever sounding roar;
	And a great and mighty power
	Shall unclose thee in that hour,
When you will not keep your secrets any more.

Sea Plain, Monmoith Co., New Jersey, May, 1885.


ESSAY ON CHRISTMAS.
     Christmas time, of all the year, is a time of
rejoicing for all Christian sects.  It is a time
of festivity and merry making, and I sometimes
think that in our mirth and pleasure we are
apt to forget the real and most worthy cause of
joy and rejoicing—the birth of our Savior, the
babe in Bethlehem, the meek and lowly Jesus,
who came to this earth in the meridian of time,
as it had been ordained in the courts above, be-
fore the creation of this world, to be despised
and ridiculed among His own, and finally offer
up His life for the sins of the world.  This is
something worthy of contemplation, because
upon His mission depends our eternal salvation,
and, also, to a great extent, our temporal salva-


tion; for His is the only name in which we can
approach the Father and receive the blessing;
and our temporal and eternal welfare are so
closely connected that they are not easily
separated.
	Now, there are many things that are worth
considering in connection with Christmas.
There is one thing which those who are blest
with a goodly portion of this world’s goods
should not forget; that is, the poor.  The Savior
said, in His day, in speaking of two classes of
people in the day of judgment.  Of one class
He said: “When I was naked ye clothed me;
when I was hungry ye fed me; when I was sick
and in prison ye visited me.” They shall an-
swer: “Lord, when saw we Thee in this condi-
tion?” He shall answer: “Inasmuch as ye
have done it to the least of mine, ye have done
it unto me.” To the other class he shall say:
“Depart from me, I know ye not.  When I was
naked ye clothed me not; when I was hungry
ye fed me not; when I was sick and in prison
ye did not visit me.” This would be a severe
rebuke. 
	Let us try to remember the obligations we
are under, that when we have finished our
work on earth it may be said of us: “Well
done, good and faithful servant, enter into the
joy of thy Lord.”
								M. M.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	MY DEAR SISTER:—I feel it my privilege,
as well as my duty, to write a few lines to our
little paper. I have taken it ever since it was
published, and I am sure I would not know
what to do without it, but I find several have
had the paper discontinued because of hard
times. It seems to me this had not ought to
be. I think we should exert ourselves to sus-
tain the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, not only by sub-
scribing for it, but in writing to the paper.
There are many gifted women among us, that
have language to express their views and senti-
ments on subjects of very great importance,
and they should let their light shine through
the EXPONENT. I feel, for one, willing to lift
my voice in defense of truth and right.
	Shall we not protest against the falsehoods
and slanders that are heaped upon us by our
enemies? They say we are serfs in bondage,
and so on. Well, we know better; there is no
bondage in keeping the commandments of God,
which we are striving to do, but it is our ene-
mies that are exerting themselves to the utmost
to bring us into bondage, by trying to take
away every right and privilege bestowed upon
us for our benefit and well being; but the Lord
has said, "Thus far shalt thou go and no far-
ther;" but let them do the work for him they
have listed to obey, the reckoning day will
come, and all will be rewarded according as
their works have been. We know that our
trust is in the God of Daniel, whom the angels
delivered from the lions' mouth, and He will
deliver us if we are faithful and true. To be
sure it annoys us when the marshals come
hunting around, searching not only for men,
but for our sisters and daughters, dragging
them before jurors and into courts to testify
against fathers, husbands and brothers; it is
very unpleasant, but nothing to be compared
to the fate of our accusers; surely they are the
ones to be pitied, for they know not what they
do. As for us, as Latter-day Saints, we expect
to be tried and tested. The Lord has said He
would prove us to see if we would abide in
Him.
	Sisters, let us keep the Spirit of God for our
constant companion, that we may not be over-
come, but endure, for these light afflictions,
which are but for a moment, will work out for


us a far more exceeding and eternal weight
of glory.
	Success to every effort to do good, and to
the EXPONENT.
		N. M. TRACY.
Mariotts Ward, Weber Co., Dec. 3d, 1886.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Tis not genius so much as ability that carries
one through the battles of life.—A. B. Street.
	A man may talk continually and not be elo-
quent; sound and substance are not twins.
	Faith in God hallows and confirms the union
between parents and children.—Pestalozzi.
	Hope without action is a broken staff; we
should always hope for things that are possible
and probable.—James Ellis.
	Stories heard at a mother's knee are never
wholly forgotten.  They form a little spring
that never quite dries up in our journey through
scorching years.
	Youth is not rich in time; it may be poor
part with it, as with money, sparingly; pay no
moment but in purchase of its worth; and
what its worth, ask death-beds; they can tell.—
E. Young.
	I want to see all in a flame of fire. You
know what kind of fire I mean.  I desire that
none of my wild fire may be mixed with the
pure fire of holy zeal coming from God's alter.
—Whitefield.
	The very source of true poetry is love; a di-
vine glow and vision, conscious of the radiant
glories belonging to all surrounding things in
God's creation whether in the heavens above
or in the earth.—J. A. St. John.


﻿NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	
	Queen Victoria has now thirty grandchil-
dren.
	Mrs. Rachel Frances, who died lately in At-
lanta, Georgia, left about $30,000, most of
which she had made out of her dairy and truck
farm.  She was an excellent business woman.
	Mrs. Senator Henderson, of St. Louis, has
offered to the students of Kirkwood Seminary
a prize for the best composition on the subject
"Woman, Considered Industrially and Politi-
cally."
	Miss Katherine D. Blake, daughter of Mrs.
Lillie Devereux Blake, was chairman of the 
committee of teachers through whose efforts,
in a large degree, the appointment of two
women on the Board of Education in New
York City was secured.
	Mrs. Lucy H. Hooper has been investigating
the fate of American girls who go to Italy to
learn to sing, hoping to succeed on the Italian
stage.  Of the hundreds that she has known
during the last twelve years, only three have 
been successful—Marie Van Zandt, Emma
Nevada, and Ella Russell.  Of the rest, some
few are making a precarious living, ill paid,
working hard.  Others have gone home tired
out.—Ex.
   Mrs. Sarah Sampson, formerly of Bath, Me.,
has been appointed by the President notary
public for the District of Columbia.  This ap-
pointment was made in recognition of her
faithful services as clerk in the pension office,
as well as for her devotion to the sick and
wounded soldiers during the late war. Mrs.
Sampson has recently received her second pro-
motion since she entered the pension office as a
clerk three years ago.  Her present salary is
1,400.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret New Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 15, 1886.


[Column 1]﻿

COMMENTS.

	It is a sort of query in the minds of the people,
why the President of the United States has not
specially singled out and mentioned Utah in his
late message. Those most deeply interested in
the welfare and prosperity of Utah and its people,
accept it as a specimen of the good sense and
sound policy of the Chief Executive of the nation,
that he refrained from joining in the general out-
cry against this already much abused and maligned
Territory, in his annual message. Surely there are
laws enough already against those deemed fit sub-
jects for his special measures, and officers author-
ized to enforce them, and a court that interprets
the laws to "fit the cases." What more, in all
conscience, can anybody want? The representa-
tives of the "Liberal" party were on hand at the
great capitol before the message was completed,
no doubt, and would have been more than willing
to give Mr. Cleveland advice in regard to what he
ought to say about Utah.
	Congress don't seem to be fixing up Utah affairs,
either, and unless something is developed soon,
what will become of the two dignitaries who went
away so jolly-hopeful of impressing Congress and
the President with the immediate necessity of hav-
ing something done to give them and their clique
an opportunity to display their patriotism and
loyalty in defense of the rights of the "liberal"
party as against the veritable citizens of the Terri-
tory, who came here when there was no vestige of
civilization, and planted the American flag on the
Rocky Mountains in this vicinity.
	While the home-loving and industrious "Mor-
mons" are defending their rights, human and
divine, to the best of their ability, and trying, in
the midst of an accumulation of difficulties, to
facilitate the growth and progress of education,
manufacture and agriculture, and using their best
endeavors to maintain a footing in the land to
which they came a band of poor, humble exiles,
men who have lived in their midst, and who have
partaken liberally of the advantages accruing from
the economic manipulations of the early pioneers,
are ready and willing, yes, even anxious to go
down to Congress and rob the Mormons of the
few rights not yet taken away. Why these few
men in office here should so vigorously pursue
the "Mormons to the death," would seem incredible
if one had not strong and unmistakable evidence.
If  there were not so many meddlers in Utah
affairs, it is barely possible the people of Utah
might have a short respite, a breathing space in
the attack the opposition is waging, but every now
and then one of the political clique pops up with
some new remedy for the terribie evils that they
represent exist here in Utah, when the fact is that
the people are not at all in need of a remedy where
all is peace and tranquility, or would be, were it
not for such men and women as have come here
on purpose to despoil the people of their rights
and possesions.
	And not content with seeking to wrest political
power and influence, and "lobbying at Washing-

[Column 2]

ton, women, have professed great interest in
reforming the morals of the Mormon people,
whereas, at home, in their own towns and cities,
their moral influence is doubtless greatly needed;
and the money they are so anxious to obtain could
be used to good advantage in actually relieving
want; it certainly could in the District of Colum-
bia. The combined efforts of those ladies who
have associated themselves together, and incor-
porated articles to establish an "Industrial
Home," will fail to have any effect upon the religion
of "Mormon" women; Congress and the President
may rest assured of that, and plural wives will
never place themselves under their direction, and
their HOME will stand empty unless filled by
others than women who can be induced to re-
nounce any principle of their religion.
	The same disappointment awaits all those who
are advocating their various methods to overthrow
a principle and order of marriage, that is as eter-
nal as the heavens, and as far above their compre-
hension.
	There has been a great disappointment in the
ranks of the enemy lately, in their failure to con-
vict President Angus M. Cannon, and that is
only a beginning of the crosses they will have to
endure in seeing their wisdom come to naught.
They have woven a fine web to catch the silly
"Mormons," so they think, but it is flimsy and
will break in pieces; it has no strength nor solidity.
It is a web of lies and deceit, which they have set
as a snare, but though here and there one may get
entangled in its meshes, the Lord will stretch
forth His hand, as He has promised, and the evil
they desire to do will be averted, and they will fall
into the snare they have set for the Saints of God.
If such people would observe the Mormon creed
—"Mind your own business"—peace and happi-
ness might be restored in the homes of the Saints,
and the government of the United States might
save the money now expended in employing men
to hunt down Mormon men and plural wives. It
is a marvel that the tax paying public of these
United States are willing that public money
should be appropriated for such unnecessary pur-
poses as establishing a home for women who are
already better off than the great majority of the
women of the nation; but they will see, by and
bye, how foolish this scheme is, and wish the
money had been kept for some laudable purpose.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Some minutes of conferences, and other matter
of that kind, has been laid by until another issue,
as we cannot well devote more than one page of
each paper to reports of organizations.
	A THEATRICAL entertainment is to be given at
the theatre by the Old Folks' Committee, on Fri-
day afternoon, a matinee, and also in the evening.
"Confusion" is the title of the piece to be pre-
sented, and it will be sure to please the old folks,
as it is very showy in stage appointments, and not
wanting in character acting.
	THE Old Folks' Committee are energetic work-
ers, and deserve to be popular, as they certainly
are, for the interest they manifest, and the pains
they take to please and happify those who have
not the opportunity, for various reasons, of asso-
ciating socially and partaking of the enjoyments
and amusements of life, like those who are younger
and stronger physically. Success to the Old
Folks Committee and "blessings on them," for the
good they have done, and the happiness they have
given to the aged fathers and mothers in Israel,
widows and orphans. Let the good work con-
tinue, for it is a praiseworthy one.
	TO the subscribers of the EXPONENT we wish to
state that the pictures of Mother Smith, promised
during the holidays, have not yet been received
from New York, where the work had to be done

[Column 2]

but we have ordered them by express, which wil
bring them quicker and safer than coming by
freight, and as soon as they arrive we will forward
them to the persons for whom intended. It will
take some time to mail so many carefully, and in
places where there is an agent it will be more con-
venient to send all together to her for distribution,
but where single copies are taken, each one will
have to be put up and mailed separately. Care
will be taken that the picture may not be creased or
defaced in any way. We are very sorry that they
are not ready to issue with this number of the
paper, but on our part it is wholly unavoidable.
	CHRISTMAS preparations are being made by the
merchants and shopkeepers, and the great display
of holiday goods gives the city a decidedly cheer-
ful and business like appearance. Christmas trees
and holly are for sale in various parts of the town,
and the greengrocers and butchers seem to have
taken special pains to decorate, and they have not
failed in the attempt, either. The large window
in the Z. C. M. I. makes a fine show in the grocery
department, and Savage's Art Bazar makes an ele-
gant and artistic showing of books, pictures and
fancy goods in his line. Dwyer has a very elabor-
ate assortment of toys and little articles of every
sort for Christmas gifts, as well as an excellent
variety of books, well chosen, and appropriate
for holiday presents, and a full and complete stock
of goods, which cannot fail to give satisfaction to
the purchasers. Pembroke has a fine variety also
of this style of goods, and however fastidious the
purchaser may be, he will be able to choose from
the large assortment of goods and notions in Salt
Lake. Teasdel's the Eagle House, always makes
a fine display of goods at very reasonable prices,
and they serve their customers with the utmost
politeness. Their Christmas decorating and orna-
menting is neat and in good taste, and one is sure
of a good article if purchased at this very popular
house. Whatever is wished, the one thing need-
ful is the means, and it is better to be economical
even in the matter of giving, as it is not so much
the gift itself one esteems, as the spirit and feeling
that accompanies it. In the primitive days in the
valley, when everything was home made, and the
children played with rag dolls almost exclusively,
they were quite as happy and contented as the
little folks are now with the variety of toys of all
kinds, and so much candy and sweetmeats.


GENERAL DANIEL H. WELLS.

	Next in rank, in the hierarchy of the Latter-day 
Saints, to the Presidency of the Mormons is Daniel
H. Wells, whose portrait we publish to-day. In
Gentile circles the veteran of the Church is still
spoken of as a "Danite," and a "Destroying
Angel," for the fiction of that avenging Vehm-
gericht dies hard. Among the Mormons, how-
ever, he is known as General of the Utah Militia
—no longer extant, at any rate, on paper—and
Second Counselor to the Apostles. It is in the
latter capacity that he has addressed to us the
letter which will be found on another page.
	A very remarkable man is General Wells. Rug-
ged of countenance, laconic in speech, of com-
manding stature, he is always a striking figure in
the meetings of his people, while his qualities of
mind have made him one of the most conspicu-
ously distinguished characters in their history.
Well born, and descended from men who have
held the highest offices in the Eastern States, he
began his own official career under good auspices
and at a very early age. His father, however,
died when he was a mere lad, and the widow, sell-
ing her landed estate, migrated to Illinois. At
the age of twenty-one he had so won the confi-
dence of his fellow citizens that he was made a
justice of the peace, and to a very singular extent
filled a position as general umpire and arbitrator
in disputes of all kinds between all classes and


creeds of people, that has its only parallel in the
Cazi of Eastern cities. When thus rapidly rising
to place and power he came into contact with
Joseph Smith, the founder of Mormonism, who,
with his people, had been hunted out of Missouri
by a mob of fanatics who murdered women and
little children. Young Wells, with that severely
just American spirit which distinguished him, was
furious at the inhuman treatment which the
wretched people had received. He was not a
man of any sentiment, but the sight of the harm-
less Mormons hunted with bloodshed out of the
townships which they had built up with honest
industry by bands of vagabond bigots, made him
so indignant that he extended to them all the pro-
tection his position enabled him to do. Again the
Mormons established themselves, and again they
were broken up by combinations of loafers and
fanatics. It was then that Daniel Wells threw in
his lot with the persecuted people. He took a
leading part in the battle of Nauvoo, and his
white charger is as familiar in Mormon chronicles
as any other historical war-horse; and, upon the
surrender of the city, it was he who covered the
retreat of the Saints, and manoeuvred them across
the river. Ever since then he has been a pillar of
the Church; and the Americans will never forgive
him for the part he took; under Brigham Young's
orders, as commander-in-chief of the Mormon
troops when the Federals sent down an army to
coerce the Saints in 1857.—Court and Society Re-
view.
	London, England, October 14, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

HAVE THE MORMONS ANY RIGHTS?

	Joseph Smith, Jun., the Latter-day Saints'
Prophet, predicts, among many other occurrences,
the coming of a time when the Constitution of the
United States would be practically worthless be-
cause of a violation of its principles that contend-
ing political parties might gain a temporary advan-
tage, to make way for subversive expediencies,
and to satisfy the clamor and unrighteous appetite
of a headstrong nation. He predicted further,
that the Mormons would defend that Constitution;
and though driven, persecuted, despoiled and
murdered under its protection, they would even-
tually rescue and rehabilitate it, and offer an asy-
lum to the oppressed and God-fearing of all na-
tions. The painful fulfillment of the greater por-
tion of this prophecy, stamps—if there were no
other proof—Joseph Smith gifted with almost
divine foresight. And this I shall prove section
by section, article by article.
THE FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION
says: "Congress shall make no law respecting an
establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free
exercise thereof." Every Act passed by Congress
which directly or indirectly affects the religious
principle of Mormon plural marriage is a clear
and incontrovertible violation of this article of
the Constitution. Polygamy is an integral part of
the Mormon faith. It is a sacrament. The
United States' officers have themselves so declared
it. Not only has the Constitution been infringed,
but, in order to justify the enactments against the
Mormon faith, Congress has been compelled to
declare that "Mormon" polygamy is not religion,
and in that very declaration have legislatively
stated what is religion; for to say what is not is
emphatically to declare what is religion. No
power exists under the Constitution which gives
the right to force Mormons to accept a system of
marriage foreign and repugnant to their faith be-
cause it happens to be the pet method of modern
and existing Christianity.
	In clause 3, Sec. 9, Art. 1, we read,
"NO BILL OF ATTAINDER OR EX POST FACTO
LAW SHALL BE PASSED."
But the Edmunds Law of March, 1882, says that

[Column 2]

"if a citizen believes it right for a man to have
more than one living and undivorced wife at the
same time, or to live in the practice of cohabiting
with more than one woman," this "shall be suffi-
cient cause of challenge to any person drawn or
summoned as a juror or talesman." Thus, without
even the farce of a trial, a man is deprived of a
right that belongs to him as a citizen. This is at-
tainder—this, the Constitution distinctly forbids.
Moreover, the Edmunds' Law forbids any polyg-
amist voting at any election, and declares him
"ineligible for election or appointment to any
place of public trust, honor, or emolument;" and to
carry this out Commissioners were appointed who
"reversing the presumption of law and declaring
the whole population to be guilty, proceeded to
convict individuals by a test oath of their own
fabrication,', and thus, without trial, they are de-
prived of a right, which Judge Black says is the
inalienable part of citizenship. It is both attain-
der and ex poste facto, operating against those
who entered polygamy long before opposing meas-
ures were ever dreamt of. Section 8 of the Edmunds
Law regarding the holding of offices is a most
painful and palpable infraction of the sixth article
and third clause of the Constitutional Amend-
ments. "No religious test shall ever be required
as a qualification to any office or public trust under
the United States."
	Article VI. of Amendments provides that
"IN ALL CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS
the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and
and public trial by an impartial jury of the State
and district wherein the crime shall have been
committed." This provision the fifth section of
the Edmunds Bill contravenes by excluding from
a jury any man who may even believe it right for
another to have two wives living and undivorced
at the same time; and as there are, notoriously,
only two classes in Utah—Mormons, and those
who hate them heartily—an impartial jury is an ab-
solute impossibility. As a result, the arrest of a
Mormon is equivalent to conviction. Proof of the
act which consummates marriage is not necessary
to conviction. If a man has lived apart from his
wives for an indefinite period, but fails to disown
them, he is convicted. Marshal Fred Dubois, of
Idaho Territory, admitted under oath, before the
Court of which he was an important officer, that
he had made use of the language here given: "I
have now got a jury that will convict every Mor-
mon brought before it on a charge of unlawful co-
habitation, innocent or guilty. It would convict
Jesus Christ himself if he were brought into Court
on that charge." The crusade is a religious one,
in every respect. It is not only unconstitutional,
but anti-constitutional; but the United States' Su-
preme Court has sustained and continues to sus-
tain these fatal violations of the Constitution.
JUDGE BLACK, THE GREATEST DEMOCRATIC CON-
STITUTIONAL LAWYER OF HIS AGE, 
referring to this act in a speech before the Judici-
ary Committee of the House of Representatives,
February 1, 1883, predicted: "To carry into effect
the laws already passed, it is necessary and proper
that you should have a police force composed of
spies and delators, who will thrust themselves
into the kitchens and bed-chambers of all families;
employ eavesdroppers, who will watch them at
keyholes and windows; or in default of that,
change the rules of evidence (as a committee of
the Senate has actually proposed), and compel the
lawful husband and wife to testify against one
another in contemptuous defiance of the great
principles which protect the sanctities of the
family, and lie at the basis of civil society." This
warning has been realized to the very letter, not
only as to spies, but to forcing the lawful wife to
testify against the husband. Scarcely a day passes
that does not witness the degrading fulfillment of
Mr. Black's ptediction; against this, also, the

[Column 3]

fourth article of the Constitution stands. It pro-
vides that "The right of the people to be secure
in their persons, houses,papers, and effects against
unreasonable searches and seizures shall not be
violated." Sick women and tender children, at
all hours of the day and night, are dragged by
coarse and vulgar officers from their beds, forced
to give evidence against the husband and father,
and subjected to such vile and indecent question-
ings as would cause the blush of shame to mount
to the cheek of a libertine; and this, too, in open
Court, before vulgar mobs, by the demand of the
public prosecutor, and with the countenance and
sanction of the judge. It is impossible that Eng-
lishmen could comprehend the infamous depth to
which the prostitution of justice has gone in
America where the Mormons are concerned..
	Article 2 of the Amendment says:—
"NO PERSON FOR THE SAME OFFENCE SHALL
BE TWICE
put in jeopardy of life or limb." But Lorenzo
Snow was three times convicted for the one offense,
unlawful cohabitation. The only proof against
him was furnished by himself, wherein he admitted 
having more than one woman to be entitled to the
name of wife. He had never violated the Ed-
munds Law. That was distinctly proven. Yet,
he is now suffering imprisonment under three con-
victions for the same offence. By a system of
segregation, if a man live with two women as his
wives for one month, according to the rulings of
the lesser and sanction of the higher Courts, he
may be convicted, in the discretion of the court,
for an offence for every hour. Thus, allowing
thirty days in the month, a man could be sent to
jail for a period of 360 years, and be fined £34,200
whereas the law puts the extreme penalty at six
months’ imprisonment and £60 fine. Besides, this
action necessarily involves the infraction of still
another constitutional principle (Article 8 of the
amendments) that "excessive fines" shall not be
imposed, "nor cruel and unusual punishments in-
flicted." The first part of this article reads: "Ex-
cessive bail shall not be required." Yet Geo. Q.
Cannon, one of the first Presidency of the Church,
was arrested under three indictments for unlawful
cohabitation. If, on trial, he were convicted, and
the extreme penalty which the law provides were 
inflicted, he could have been imprisoned for
eighteen months and fined £180. He demanded
to be admitted to bail, but before being released
the judge required him to furnish the unimpeach-
able security to the sum of £9,000. The custom-
ary bail in cases of manslaughter, assaults, and
forgery is from £100 to £300; but, because of his
prominence, Mr. Cannon had to give £9,000. The
Constitution says: "Excessive bail shall not be
required." And this is a country where liberal in-
stitutions and freedom are the basis upon which
the Constitution and Government are founded,
and where all men are equal!
THE MORMONS,
though citizens of the United States,
ARE ALLOWED NO MILITIA.
The legislation against them is special and class;
the rules of evidence have been outrageously per-
verted and practically destroyed; the fundamental
right of local self-government is largely denied
them; attempts are being made to rob and despoil
them as a religious community, and this with the
weight of sanction which the United States Con-
gress gives, and to deprive them of the last ves-
tige of citizenship; the organic law which the
parent Government gave them has by that authori-
ty been viciously violated; test-oaths are imposed,
no constitutional provision behind which they
could take the slightest refuge has been respected.
They are harassed, and worried, and hounded,
and despoiled of liberty, property, peace, and
character, by a set of impecunious, incapable,


ignorant, fanatical and dishonest, blackguards;
who, under the sanction of the "greatest Govern-
ment on earth," would rob, malign, and assassin-
ate them literally as they have done to their-
characters.'
	To crown all, a new proposition has been made
in Congress with the approval and applause of the
leading newspapers, to pass an amendment to the
Constitution, making it constitutional to deal with
the subject of polygamy. If the laws already
passed, and now doing such effective work against
polygamy, are constitutional, why this proposed
amendment? But if the proposed amendment be
necessary to justify anti-polygamic legislation,
what becomes of the enactments already passed,
now in full operation, and which the United
States Supreme Court has held to be constitu-
tional? If these acts are constitutional, the pass-
ing of the proposed amendment is like saying,
"We did right in doing what we have done, and
now we will make it more right by saying we did
right in doing right;" which is sheer and unmiti-
gated idiocy. Inconsistency is the inevitable and
invariable result of departure from principle. The
inconsistency may be long delayed, but it is of
unerring certainty. No truth could be more clear-
ly exemplified than in the dealing of American
statesmen (save the mark!) with the Mormon
problem.
	How long will a Government last, when men
who profess to love it can sanction its prostitu-
tion.
	How much respect can a Government claim
where it shakes its angry locks over the imprison-
ment of a common brawler, and threatens a war
unless he is released, as in the case of the man
Catting held recently by Mexico, and yet pays no
heed to the wail and petition of 200,000 of its op-
pressed and down-trodden citizens at home,
whose only desire is that their charge of insuffer-
able grievances may be investigated? In this un-
hallowed and unconstitutional persecution the
Mormons, in defending their own rights, are fight-
ing the battle of human liberty and constitutional
rights, and seem to be the only friends the Con-
stitution has left. When grave and thoughtful
men, who live in and love America, who are
among its chief intellectual and literary lights,
freed from the prejudices and the excitement inci-
dental to active political strife, hold it to be merely
a question of time, when it shall be disrupted and
overthrown because, of internal and political im-
morality, the weight of, Joseph Smith's prophecy,
that the end hastens, receives a weight of testi-
mony that should make those who are wise in
their generation pause.
		D. H. Wells.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE.

SYNOPSIS OF MINUTES.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of this Stake of Zion was held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Thursday,
Dec. 9th, 1886, Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.
After the usual opening exercises, the Secre-
tary called the roll; sixteen presidents, six
counselors, one treasurer and three teachers re-
sponded, representing twenty-six branches.
Minutes of previous conference read and ac-
cepted, after which a very affectionate and
interesting communication was read by the
Secretary from the President, E. R. S. Smith.

To the officers and members of the Relief So-
	ciety of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, in Con-
	ference assembled, President M. I. Horne
	presiding.

BELOVED SISTERS:
	Not anticipating the pleasure of being with

[Column 2]

you in person to-day, I feel that I shall be
with you in spirit, and take the liberty to ad-
dress you through the medium of pen, ink and
paper—very briefly, being aware that your
time is very limited.
	I thank our Heavenly Father that I am as-
sociated with you, not only in the precious and
everlasting bonds of the glorious Gospel of
the Prince of peace, but also in the sacred,
God-revealed organization of the Relief Society,
which places us in position to accomplish more
good, both temporally and spiritually, than
otherwise would be possible. The performing
labors of love and duty, relieving the wants of
the poor—administering to the sick—lifting up
those who are bowed down—strengthening the
weak—encouraging the desponding—arousing
the dormant, etc., etc., is productive of the
purest and noblest pleasure enjoyed in mortal
life.
	May you, my sisters, in this Conference, real-
ize a copious refreshing from the presence of
God. May the spirit of instruction, consola-
tion, love and union rest on those present—
every heart be cheered, and each soul resolve
anew to draw closer to God, and lean firmly on
Him, that you may see beyond the dark cloud
that rises before us, and rejoice in prospect of
the blessing that comes after the tribulation.
May the Holy Ghost, the Comforter, be your
constant companion, and you be enabled to ac-
knowledge the hand of God in all things.
What He will not overrule for the good of the
Saints, He will avert.
	Your Sister, 
		E. R. Snow Smith.
	Thursday morning, Dec. 9, 1886.

	The first seventeen wards of the city, and
Pleasant Green, were represented in their
order, and the showing was particularly good
so far as activity in benevolent work is con-
cerned, and a desire to be diligent and faithful.
	Prest. Horne made some timely suggetions,
and encouraged the sisters to perform every
duty and be firm and steadfast. 
	Morning session closed with singing the
doxology, and benediction by Mrs. M. McMas-
ter.
	Afternoon session: After singing and prayer,
the 18th, 19th, 20th, Sugar House, Farmers,
Big Cottonwood, South Cottonwood, Draper
and North Jordan Wards were represented; all
in a very prosperous condition financially, and
an increase in memebrs and endeavors to do
good.	
	Prest. Horne addressed the sisters for a
short time, referring to many important mat-
ters, and giving much good counsel. She
stated that she was on hand to visit any  of
the branches in the Stake when  the sisters
could make arrangements for her to go. Ad-
vised the sisters to consider the weather at this
season and try to have these meetings when the
people could come out. She gave some instruc-
tions to the sisters upon washing and anointing
the sick, as some had understood that those
who ministered in these ordinances must be
specially set apart, otherwise it was not in the
proper order; told them that this was an errone-
ous impression; all good, Latter-day Saints,
who had received their blessings, in the house
of the Lord might officiate when called upon.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor presented the names of
the Central Board, and the presiding officers
of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, and all
were sustained in position by unanimous vote.
The presidents and officers of each branch in
the Stake, as now enrolled, were also sustained.
Coun. E. S. Taylor was glad to hear that the
members of the Society in its several branches
were improving spiritually and temporally;
glad to find interest in the Society increasing
among the people. She made some very excel-
lent remarks upon  talking and gossipping
about other people's affairs, and urged the sis-

[Column 3]

ters to try and refrain from these things and
"mind our own business."
	Mrs. M. W. Snow made a few remarks; said,
"Let us all try and be more cautious, more
wise and more silent upon sacred things; keep
things that are holy in our own bosoms, and
pray for wisdom. We have persecution, but
the hand of the Lord is in it, and the time is
drawing nigh when the Son of Man shall 
come. Who is ready to welcome Him? Let
us be merciful, even as our Father In heaven
is merciful, and aim to attain to that which we
were placed here for, even eternal life."
	Mrs. E. B. Wells expressed herself as glad
of being associated with the Relief Society;
bore her testimony to the truth of the Latter-
day work. Said, "Let us observe the Savior's
teaching, to do unto others as ye would that
others should do unto you.'" Said she had
read and believed the truest politeness was that
which the Savior taught—"whatsoever ye
would that men should do unto you, do ye
even so unto them." Thought we should be kind 
and tender to each other, and never wound the
feelings of anyone knowingly. Spoke of the 
subscription for the family of one of the
brethren in Arizona, who had been an Indian
interpreter, and had died, leaving his family
in poor circumstances; invited the sisters who
could to contribute even ever such a small
sum.
	Mrs. M. W. Wilcox bore testomony to the
truth of the Gospel, and rejoiced to be num-
bered with the Saints.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said, "Let us be watchful
all the time, and let us not do any unnecessary
talking, and not speak of things that would
hurt any one's feelings; let us live so that we
can bless each other and do good to each other,
and seek to do our duty at all times."
	Dr. E. R. Shipp: "I can say of a truth that
I know this to be the work of God; let us put
into practice the instructions we have heard;
it is not what we hear. but what we do by
which we shall be judged. I often think we
could hardly live if it were not for the Gospel;
those that leave this church are very miserable; 
they have nothing to live for."
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp: "Let us be careful
not to hurt each other's feelings, but overcome
this propensity of speaking harshly and judg-
ing others, and let us be more kind and tender
and merciful, that we, too, may obtain mercy.
I am one with you, my sisters, and wish all the
time to do what is right."
	Prest. Horne entreated the sisters to be
awake to duties, and not be caught napping
"Cultivate the Spirit of the Lord. It is a
good thing to have a fund on hand in each So-
ciety, and not expend all. It might be called 
a relief fund. Let the teachers be sure that
no one belonging  to the  families of those
brethren who are in prison is neglected, or
suffers for any comfort." She was glad the
brethren had appointed meetings on the blocks;
"they will do a great deal of good; our
young people will have an opportunity to hear
the testimonies of the brethren and sisters.
We have to be diligent for ourselves. We
cannot borrow the Spirit of the Lord; we must 
have it in our own hearts; every means is made
use of by our enemies to annoy and distress us.
I want to say a few words about this "Indus-
trial Home," that our enemies are getting up
for the "down-trodden women of Utah." We
don't want any of our poor taken care of by
the Gentiles; we take care of our poor our-
selves. Let us not be overtaken by the snares
that are laid for our feet and the feet of our
children. Let us guard them and guide them.
The Lord looks favorably upon his daughters,
and it is our privilege to know that we are in-
deed His daughters." Referred to the daughters
of Zelophehad, mentioned in Scripture, who
asked concerning their inheritance, and even
Moses was not able to answer them, but in-


quired of the Lord, who instructed him to give
them inheritances with their brethren, showing
He acknowledged their rights and privileges.
Prest. Horne closed with an earnest desire that
we might have grace sufficient for our day.
Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "The time is far spent." Benediction
by the Secretary, Mrs. E. Howard.

Y. L. M. I. A.
	(Synopsis of minutes of Y. L. M. I. A. Con-
ference of this Stake of Zion, held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Dec. 10, 1886, Coun.
M. Y. Dougall presiding.) After the usual
opening exercises, reports of the several asso-
ciations were given. Nearly every association
in the city was represented, but very few of
those in the country, probably on account of
the disagreeable weather. The reports plainly
showed that the young people were taking
more interest in their meetings than ever be-
fore; in the programmes for exercises, as given,
there is a decided preference shown for testi-
mony meetings, and to aid those who are diffi-
dent in speaking subjects are often given, and
the members are allowed to write their
thoughts and read them. Twelve manuscript
papers were reported.
	The Stake Board was represented by Coun.
Nellie Colebrook, who expressed her pleasure 
at the condition of the Officers' meetings; there
was now a larger attendance than had ever
been before.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt gave the financial report of
the Stake.
	Prest. E. S. Taylor explained the use of the
Stake fund, and urged the presidents to have
their accounts kept accurately. Meeting ad-
journed till 2 p.m. with singing and prayer.
(Afternoon session: After singing and prayer,
Coun. Dougall made the opening address. She
spoke of never having had  any marvelous
manifestations to convince her that this is the
work of God, but many little things tended to
prove the truth of this Gospel, and that she
now feels it in her inmost soul.
	This subject of testimonies was followed by
the other speakers, Mrs. Mattie H. Tingey and
Mrs. Maggie Y. Taylor, who felt that they
daily received manifestations to assure them
of the divinity of this work, but thought we
were apt to be careless and overlook them.)
	Mrs. B. W. Smith referred to the time when
she received her endowments, and said although
the sons of the Prophet deny that the ordin-
ances were performed in the days of their
father, she was a witness to the contrary. She
had also heard the Prophet speak of plural 
marriage, and knew that it was revealed to
him.
	Mrs. Mary P. Young made a few remarks,
and was followed by Mrs. M. I. Horne. She
advised the young women to read the Bible
and converse upon religious subjects, and be-
come better posted. She felt God honored his
handmaidens, for He gave a revelation for
Emma Smith, in which she was told to teach
and expound the Scriptures.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt thought our religion the
best, and that it compared with the Bible better
than any other. Referred to the inconsist-
encies of the Methodists; spoke of conversations
she had had with Gentiles upon these subjects.
An interesting letter from Prest. Mary A.
Freeze was then read.
	(Mrs. Clara James spoke in the gift of tongues,
and was listened to by an almost breathless
audience, and Mrs; Rida C. Taylor, who had
never before addressed an assembly of the
Saints, gave the interpretation.
	A few remarks were made by Coun. Nellie
Colebrook, expressing her gratitude for the
meeting, and that she obtained a strong testi-
mony, and thought that everyone there had.
	Conference adjourned for three months with 
singing and prayer.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

M. J. TANNER.

DEAR EXPONENT:	
	I have intended for some time to send you
some leaves from my journal hoping a few ex-
tracts will be interesting to your readers.
	My parents joined the Church in Ohio and
came to Nauvoo when I was four years old.
Since then my life has been identified with 
this people. I came to this valley in 1847, the
first year of its settlement, consequently my 
knowledge of the great world outside of the
mountains has been somewhat limited.
	It had long been my darling ambition to 
visit once more the land of my nativity and
the relatives of my parents. I had held cor-
respondence with the older ones of the families,
but those of my own age I knew very little
about. They were passing away one by one
until all were gone but one on each side of our
house. My father's sister and my mother's sis-
ter were all that remained of that generation.
	On the 14th of April, 1885, I started out
with a company of missionaries to visit my
friends in the east. It seemed a great under-
taking to start alone on such a journey. I felt
safe as far as New York and after that I would
trust to providence. With my husband's bless-
ing and the kind wishes of my friends, I left
the depot at Provo at one p.m. Spring was
early, and the fields were already green with
grain and lucern, the orchards were in bloom, 
and the valley looked like a vast garden, and
the air was laden with perfume. Passing into
Spanish Fork Canon, the change is soon felt.
The air is quite cool and snow is on the
ground.
	Soldier's Summit, 3 p.m. We have passed
through the snow sheds and left an engine—it
required two engines to bring us up the hill.
We leave Spanish Fork River, after which the
water sheds the other way and we are over the
rim of the basin. Rain is falling, and the
mountains are white with snow.
	Castle Gate, 4:15 p.m. Raining hard; the 
scenery is grand; the rocks look as if they had
been broken open on purpose for us to pass
through. Immense cliffs rise above the track,
and look as though they might fall and crush
us in atoms. The rocks and hills as we pass
look very picturesque. One can imagine them
feudal castles. Terraces and battlements rise
one above another, solid and impregnable—
huge monuments of God's power, contrasted
with man's feebleness and decay. The scenery 
is wild and grand, and baffles my powers of
description. The tops of the mountains are
flat, and extend back as far as the eye can
reach, only broken here and there by additional 
castles and turrets or towers. We pass a set-
tlement of seven houses.
	Another small town called Price. There is
a nice station house. We are in Castle Valley.
It seems mostly hills and hollows, interspersed
with the gigantic castellated rocks, from which
the valley is named, and which impresses the
idea that it has at some period of time been
inhabited by a race of Titans or giants, and
that these have been their fastnesses or strong
holds. 5:35, Sunny Side; so called because the
sun shines there sometimes. The valley grows
narrower, and we enter a canon.
	Grassy Trail, 5:45. A few spears of grass
are said to grow here. Water runs down the
rocks from snow melting on the mountains, and
Price River is very muddy. Lower Price is a
very pleasant station, terraced rocks rising on
one side to a great height. Looks as if it had
stormed here all day.
	Wednesday, the 15th, 5:35 a.m. Cimeron.
Twenty minutes for breakfast. Bro. Nelson
makes some tea in our tin cups on the heating
stoves for Sister Harrison and I. We eat
breakfast from our lunch baskets and feel re-

[Column 2]

freshed. We made ourselves as comfortable as
possible in our reclining chairs, but I think
none of us slept very soundly. It stormed
hard and was very dark, and many a yawning
chasm waited the least misstep of our iron
horse. The fires went out and we were rather
cold. Every little while some one would speak
then a general conversation would follow.
Some complained of cold, some asked the time,
while others turned over and tried to look out
into the darkness. After three o'clock I went
to sleep, and waked at daylight to find that we
were on the tops of the mountains, the ground
covered with snow. 
	Leaving Cimeron, we came to the Royal
Gorge, where the rocks tower to a great height
on each side of us. A rock has fallen on the
track, and the train is run back behind a curve
while it is blasted and cleared away. It is
marvelous how the ingenuity of man could
make a road over these awful mountains; and
to think that we should travel so quietly along,
up and down, where the rocks almost meet
over our heads, and look as if they might drop
on us any moment and crush us from existence.
It is called the Black Canon of the Gunnison;
and black and dismal it looks, except the tops
of the mountains, which are covered with snow,
The road seems cut in the side of the rocks,
while the river foams and dashes below us.
The telegraph wires are fastened to the rocks,
it being impossible to set poles for many miles.
It is not storming to-day, but the wind blows
so cold that we cannot use the observation car,
where we could get a better view of the scenery.
Some of the men button their overcoats and
go out a little, but I do not venture.
	Stop a few minutes at Curicanto. We hear
another blast, and suppose there must be
another rock in the way. An engine runs
ahead of the train, presumably to look out for
danger. 
	Sapinero, 8:10. Cloudy, but not storming.
We are out of the gorge or canon, which is fif-
teen miles long. The mountains are low, but
look high ahead of us. There is quite a distin-
guished company in our end of the car. It in-
cludes an artist, a poet, two bishops and a
professor. Gunnison, 9:15. Croylan, snow
covers the ground and is still falling. Crocks,
10:15. Ground covered with snow. It grows
monotonous. Sargent, 10:25, a mining town.
Shawano, 11:15. We are winding around the
tops of the mountains, so high. Away above
the clouds are some of them, for there are still
plenty above us. Such a fearful height can 
only be realized by looking at the awful chasms 
below us. Here are snow sheds; twenty-three
in succession, with scarcely a minutes ride be-
tween them. It is called "Marshall Pass," and
seems on the very tops of the mountains, but 
there are higher mountains in the distance to
the left. We look down on the tops of tall
fir trees. It is fearful to look down so many
thousands of feet. I shall never forget the im-
pression.
	To be Continued.


﻿THREE WOMEN MINISTERS.

EDITOR WOMAN'S JOURNAL:
	Our city has been quite excited over the
ordination, of Miss Ida C. Hulten. A large
and fashionable audience gathared in the
Unitarian Church, on the 10th inst., to witness
her installation as pastor of that congrega-
tion.
	It was a beautiful and deeply impressive
ceremony. Beautiful, because a woman minis-
ter stood in the pulpit ready to extend the
right hand of fellowship. In the joy and glad-
ness of her heart she extended both hands,
clasping in hers the hands of another woman
minister, and showing by this loving clasp how
willing women are to help one another. Rev.
Mary A. Spafford, of Sioux City, was fitly


chosen for this pleasant duty, and Rev. Marion
Murdock made the ordination prayer, in words
so tender and trusting that every heart was
touched. The sight of three women conse-
crated to the ministry made the ceremony
doubly impressive. The suffrage workers take
new courage and grow strong under such an
inspiration as this.
	MARIA S. ORWIG.
Des Moines, Iowa, Nov. 19, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	The friends and relatives of Sister Ann Mur-
dock, of Heber City, in honor and respect,
gave her a surprise on her fifty-seventh birth-
day, bringing with them picnic and presents.
There were speeches, songs and recitations, and
they all seemed to feel well and enjoy them-
selves.
	HARRIET LUKE.


A PLEASANT PARTY.

	A large number of the Pleasant Green Relief
Society met at the house of their President,
Alvira Spencer Hirst, on her twenty-eighth
birthday, recently, and gave her a thorough
surprise.
	When we were all seated to partake of the
bounties of the earth, the Bishop presented her
with a handsome book, entitled; "History of
Salt Lake City," in behalf of the Relief So-
ciety. Our President was almost overcome
with surprise and gratitude, but she arose and
made a short speech, in which she thanked all
the sisters for showing so much love and re-
spect to her, although she did not feel herself
worthy of so much respect. 
	We had a very happy time, spending most
of the day and evening in singing, recitations,
etc. We had some very good remarks from
the bishop and his counselors; also some of the
other brethren.
		FANNY BROWN,
		FANNY JENKINS, Committee.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	It is rumored that a newspaper is to be
started in London, owned and run entirely by
women. Editors, reporters, proof-readers, com-
posers, stereotypers, and even the "devil" are
to be women or girls.
	The women of Wisconsin are hereafter to
vote upon school affairs. This amendment
was carried at the recent election by a majority
of 4543. Thus, quietly but surely, does the
world move along, and woman will be more
womanly when man recognizes her equal indi-
viduality and woman dares assume the high
prerogatives which this recognition involves.—
Unity.
	The National Woman Suffrage Association
has established a woman’s lecture bureau at
Chicago, with Mrs. I. H. Roby as manager.
She desires to get all first class lecturers to
place themselves in the hands of this bureau,
and would like them to have at least two lec-
tures on the suffrage question.  For further
particulars, address Mrs. I. H. Roby, No. 2106
Wabash Avenue, Chicago.
	Francis Minor has an article in the Decem-
ber Forum arguing that women have the right
to vote at Federal elections under the U. S.
Constitution, and that the Supreme Court of
the United States ought to revise its decision
to the contrary. It would be delightful if the
Supreme Court would do so, but until the
present judges die off and a new set come in,
there is not much hope of it.—Woman's Jour-
nal.


﻿Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending Nov. 16, 1886:
	Maria E. Beasley, Philadelphia, Pa., Mak-
ing Barrels.
	Mary Lane, Hot Springs, Ark., Hose-nozzle-
holder.
	Susanna Oldberg, Washington, D. C., Rub-
ber boot.
	Florence M. Reynolds, Los Angelos, Cal.,
Adjustable Skirt-holder and Rack.
	Harriet W. R. Strong, Oakland, Cal., Win-
dow-sash holder.


Never deceive your children. The most
essential point in our intercourse with our
children is to be perfectly true ourselves.
Every other interest ought to be sacrificed to
that of truth. When we in any way deceive
a child, we not only show him a pernicious ex-
ample, but lose our own influence over him for-
ever. Parents cannot be too guarded in this
respect.—Mrs. J. M. Brining.


IN MEMORIAM.

	At a meeting of the Relief Society of the Fourth Ward,
Salt Lake City, held Dec. 8th, 1886, the following resolu-
tions were unanimously adopted:
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister Ann
Jenkins, First Counselor in the Relief Society of the
Fourth Ward, Salt Lake City, who died suddenly at her
residence, Nov. 13th, 1886, aged fifty-three years.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from us by the hand of death our beloved and respected
sister and co-laborer in the Relief Society, therefore,
	Resolved, By the members of the Relief Society of the
Fourth Ward, that in the death of Sister Ann Jenkins, we
have lost a wise counselor, true friend and faithful laborer
in the Relief Society; one who was ever patient, zealous in
her religion and faithful to every duty, and her many good
qualities will ever remain as a monument to her memory.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the bereaved
family in the loss of a true and loving wife, a kind and
affectionate mother.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be placed
on our minutes, printed in the WOMEN'S EXPONENT, and
a copy given to the bereaved family.
		Jane S. Smith,
		Susan M. Sperry, Committee.
		Mary A. Lambert,

	Thomas Biggs, son of Johnathan Biggs and Elizabeth
Edwards, born October 29th, 1815, in Bona, Inverness
Scotland. Married Syrina Billings Piercy in London
England, Dec. 25th, 1847. Baptised into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at Welling, Kent, Eng-
land, March 24th, 1848. Ordained a Priest April 16th,
1848, at Woolwich, Kent, to which branch they belonged.
Ordained an Elder August 29th, 1849. Emigrated to the
United States the same year. Came to Utah from Council
Bluffs in 1852. Settled in Provo that year and built a house,
then came to Salt Lake City and was ordained a Seventy,
and received into the Twenty-fifth Quorum of Seventies
April 17th, 1853, and moved his family to Salt Lake City
in May, 1853. Worked at blacksmithing on the Temple
Block. Received his endowments March 17th, 1854.
Moved to Sugar House Ward and worked with George
Bywater and others in building and fitting up Sugar House.
he came again to Salt Lake City and labored in the
Tithing department until the fall of 1858, then joined his
family in Provo, and worked in the Tithing Office, 1859,
then moved to Salt Lake City and again worked in the
Tithing Office, then moved again to Provo, and from
there went to the Promontory and worked on the railroad;
then to Weber Canyon; and labored on the Union Pacific
R. R then to the C. P. R. R., having worked on the
different railroads in all about four years. In 1873 moved
into the 16th Ward, Salt Lake City, and worked at his
trade, being a boiler-maker, and had charge of that depart-
ment for the Utah Central, which position he filled for
about four years, then being called on a mission to Arizona,
leaving Salt Lake City in 1877, and arriving in Arizona
March, 1878.
	Having had poor health for the last four years, he left for


Logan to continue his temple work, which he left unfinished,
but his health being so poor, on reaching Salt Lake City,
he stopped with his son-in-law, John Wm. Keddington, in
August, 1886, and departed this life Dec. 1st, 1886, having
labored faithfully for the cause of truth from the day of his
baptism until his demise, believing in the principles and or-
dinances of the Gospel as revealed through Joseph Smith
the Prophet.  He died like one going to sleep, without
even a gasp, in the hope of a glorious resurrection, leaving
a loving wife, eight children and twenty-nine grandchildren.
He was a devoted husband and a wise and tender parent.
	SYRINA B. BIGGS.


DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.

 East Temple Stre

For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, 	-  	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c,
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1, - $1,00 
		" Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of 
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, - 1.50


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

