VOL. 15		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1887.		No. 18


[For the EXPONENT.]
HARK! THE TIDINGS.

Hark! the tidings rolling, rolling,
To a mighty nation's shame--
Heavy tidings, tolling, tolling!
Freedom's Temple given to flame!
See her ingrate children turn
Her high altar to profane,
Rend and scatter, break and burn,
While she pleads, and pleads in vain.
	
When Religion fled in terror
O'er Atlantic's foaming brine,
Freedom bade her proudly welcome
In the West to build her shrine;
Here she made her resting place,
From all other haven driven;
Here unveiled her holy face,
Here drew down the light of heaven.

Send it over lands and waters
To illume the darkness deep,
Called her scattered sons and daughters,
Israel's lost and straying sheep,
Come, ye waiting souls, rejoice!
God hath found a gathering place,
Hear your Shepherd's kindly voice,
Come, prepare to see His face.
	
Freedom's faith to her was plighted
Heaven and Earth looked smiling on,
Truth divine, her pathway lighted,
With Redemption hastening on;
In her pure white hands she holds
Heavenly gifts, beyond all price;
Free to every upright soul,
More than precious, twice and thrice.

See, the Powers of Darkness gather,
Fill with rage the hearts of men,
That they smite the hand of blessing,
Slay the Heavenly Lamb again.
Eyes they have that will not see,
Ears have they and will not hear;
Souls that will not be made free,
Choose not light, but darkness drear.

 Oh, the light that shines in darkness,
And the darkness sees it not!
Oh, the scorn'd grace of Heaven,
Oh, the schemes of blackness wrought!
On the neck of Israel now,
Falls oppression's iron heel,
But the wrath of God will glow,
Smiters shall His vengeance feel.

Then the lovely fane of freedom
Shall again toward heaven rise;
Then her altar fires, a beacon,
Shine in men's adoring eyes;
Then the Saints shall well defend
That dear Charter, gift of God,
Which the plotting traitors rend,
And 'neath cloven feet have trod.

God of Israel, look with pity
On Thy puny, raging foes;
Blunt the arrows of Thy vengeance,
Sight to their blind eyes disclose.
Speed the stone cut from the mountain,
Haste to fill each promise given;
Plant Thy children by the fountain,
Guide and guard them back to heaven.

LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
 		A NOBLE WOMAN.

	Louisa Ward Higginbotham, better known
as Grandma Higginbotham, died at the resi-
dence of her daughter, Mrs. David H. Perry,
in Ogden, Utah, on the 8th day of January,
1887; and the funeral services were held on

[Column 2]
the 10th day of January, 1887. Hundreds of
friends and relatives attended and listened to
tributes of love and of praise to the memory
of this departed sister.
	In her long life, she met such strange events,
and through all the peril of her career she
showed such supreme devotion, that her name
is worthy of being enrolled among the heroines
in the cause of Christ.
	Louisa, daughter of William and Nancy
Thompson Ward, was born at Ward’s Cove, in
the famous Tazewell County of Virginia,
March 12th, 1808. She was wed September
8th, 1831, by William Higginbotham, scion of
another famous Tazewell family. For ten
years following they dwelt at Burkes Garden,
enjoying wealth and public esteem. Elder
Jedediah M. Grant carried the Gospel into
this region in 1841. Louisa Ward Higgin-
botham was his second convert to the Gospel.
Her humble obedience in accepting baptism
was a type of her entire life. She had been
surrounded by worldly influences—pride of
blood and arrogance of wealth; and yet she
was able to cast aside the prejudices of birth,
to brave the reproaches and even the disdain of
kindred and friends, and to accept the Gospel
in gladness and humility. Once convinced of
the truth, nothing could compel her to relin-
quish it. Her husband was impressed by her
steadfastness, and soon demanded baptism from
Elder Grant.
	In 1842 William and Louisa Higginbotham
sacrificed their property and all their prospects
of rich inheritance, by leaving Virginia and
removing to Illinois. In addition to the moiety
which they realized from their considerable
possessions, they carried with them the angry
pity of all their old associates In 1843 they
and their two little ones, Nancy and Simon,
were at Nauvoo. There they offered their all
to God, and partook with other of the Saints
of the persecutions now historic. In the
month of the sublime martyrdom, a daughter
was born to them, but died after a brief and
troubled existence, while Louisa herself was
helpless with anxiety and bodily suffering. On
the 13th day of January, 1846, another
daughter, Elizabeth Letitia, was given to
them; and before Sister Higginbotham had re-
covered her strength, they took part in the
exodus of God’s people from Nauvoo. They
journeyed with the Saints to Council Bluffs,
and were preparing to proceed into the un-
known wilderness, when a message came to
them that Louisa’s father had died, leaving
her a considerable estate in Virginia. They
desired wealth for no selfish purpose; but, be-
lieving that it could be made to bless their
children, to aid the needy and advance the
work of God, they decided to return to Taze-
well before adding to the further difficulties of
the journey by further progress westward.
Their return to their old home was a pilgrim-
age. The natural difficulties of travel were in-
tensified for them, because they had no heart
to turn their backs upon their suffering friends,
even for so good a purpose as they had in view.
In Missouri they were delayed by Louisa’s
serious illness, and by the subsequent birth of 
a son—Francis.
	The settlement of the estate was a tedious
matter. While the affair was pending, Nancy
Cambell, (the eldest daughter of William and
Louisa) was won in marriage by David H.
Perry, a young, but noted merchant of Burkes
Garden. Nancy was devoted to the Gospel,

[Column 3]
but her husband was then a bitter opponent
of the Church.  He knew little about his
wife’s faith; and he knew much about the loss
of prestige, the loss of money, and the gain of
contempt which followed an avowal of belief
in Mormonism, among the aristocratic people
of Virginia. Nancy was Sister Higginbotham's
almost idolized child: she was the eldest living,
and she had been baptized at Nauvoo; besides,
she was in delicate health. When the property
was secured William and Louisa could not de-
part from Tazewell. The prospect of leaving
their best beloved behind them was too grim;
even though she might be in the care of a
wealthy husband, indulgent to her in all things
except in the matter of her religion. Sister
Higginbotham then joined with Nancy in an
effort to convert Mr. Peery to an understand-
ing of the truth. They were engaged in this
effort, and had won him to a consideration of
the Gospel requirements, when the fire of war
broke out, enveloping Virginia in its flames.
Sister Higginbotham and her family met a long
series of appalling disasters:
	Nancy’s eldest child died May 1st, 1861. 
Then David H. Peery and Simon (Sister Hig-
ginbotham’s eldest son) enlisted in the Confeder-
ate army. In the spring of 1862 Simon was
 struck down by army fever. He was brought
to the house of David’s father, which was
nearer the scene of conflict than was Burkes
Garden, and there William and Louisa has-
tened. They found him almost dead; but he
soon recovered, and re-entered the army; The
fever spread. David H. Peery’s father and
mother were attacked, and died in the summer.
William, Sister Higginbotham’s husband, was
seized, and died in July, 1862. The destroyer
also took Nancy in a fatal embrace. She suf-
fered for three months, and then gave birth to
a son. Nine days later, on September 30th,
1862, Nancy died; and on the 12th of October,
her little baby was buried by her side.
	Thus, by a series of calamities, unforeseen
as they were terrible, Sister Higginbotham
found herself robbed of her dearest treasures.
Without a defendant, she was far from the peo-
ple of God; in a country war-cursed; her wealth
was fast vanishing, and she and her little ones
were in daily peril of their lives; while every
hour she feared to learn that Simon had met
his death in battle. Her son-in-law had en-
countered a fate no less sad. Parents, wife
and all his children but one had been taken by
death; and of his vast possessions, but little re-
mained. However, there was one treasure
which was left of the beloved Nancy; this was
a daughter two years old—Louisa Letitia.
Through this little child, the one link now ex-
isting between Louisa Ward Higginbotham
and David H. Peery, much good was accom-
plished. Through all the woes of war and de-
vastation, Sister Higginbothan had kept her-
self and her remaining children firm in the
faith. She now made a fervent appeal to Mr.
Peery, begging him to accept the Gospel, and
to migrate to Utah with her She could not
leave the little Louisa but she made her also
a petitioner. Mr. Peery had not forgotten the
gentle sermons of his wife; his bitterness left
him, and soon conviction was wrought in his
soul. He accepted the Gospel and was bap-
tized in the spring of 1863. Having accom-
plished this work, so dear to her heart, Sister
Higginbotham would have been glad to find a
refuge with the people of God; but she was
hemmed in by the raging strife. In 1863


[Column 1]
David H. Peery returned to the army, and in
his absence the Union troops descended upon
the place and fired his palatial residence and
stores of merchandise. After this succession
of disasters, he found himself still further re-
duced.  His goods were gone; his landed pos-
sessions were rendered comparatively valueless;
and his tens of thousands of dollars in book
accounts and notes were either destroyed, or
rendered temporarily worthless by the death or
financial ruin of his debtors. So situated, the
spring of 1864 found them.
     By this time Mrs. Higginbotham had been
able to impress upon the mind of her son-in-
law her own anxiety to emigrate to Zion.
After much anxious pleading on her part, he
consented to go with her, and she determined
to take the first opportunity, because her pre-
vious delay had been attended by such a series
of awful disasters, that she would no longer
provoke fate. David H. Peery's faith in the
Gospel had now grown active and enthralling.
He and young Simon withdrew from the army
and sent substitutes; but the conscription in
this last epoch of the struggle had become so
universal and so strict in the South, that if
they departed it must be by stealth. Mrs.
Higginbotham gathered the few remnants of
her own property and aided her son-in-law in
accumulating his available means; and then
under her advice David and Simon left Burkes
Garden in the night on horseback, to travel to
Catlettsburg, Kentucky, where they were to
await her coming. She secured two wagons,
into which she packed all the valuables belong-
ing to Mr. Peery and herself which she could
safely carry; obtained a considerable number 
of good horses, and secured a nephew of Mr.
Peery, a young boy below the draft age, to
drive one team, while her son Francis was to
drive the other.  She packed away under the
false bottom of a trunk $1400.00 in coin, be-
longing to Mr. Peery; and $300.00 in gold, be-
longing to herself, she secreted on her own
person.  One night, just before she was going
to depart, envious neighbors broke into the
stables, loosed her horses and drove them away.
Undaunted by this disaster, she soon replaced
the stock, and this time, in order to make her
departure a certainty, she went to one Col.
Swan, a Confederate officer of her acquaint-
ance, and frankly told him of her troubles.
She said that she was a Mormon, and that she
desired to leave for Utah with such little
property as the calamitous war had left to her.
The Colonel gave her a military escort of fif-
teen men to accompany her through the Con-
federate lines; and she journeyed in safety to
the banks of the Big Sandy, where the soldiers
were obliged to leave her.  This was one of 
the most dangerous spots imaginable, for it
was directly on the line between the two oppos-
ing forces; and this was an hour, too, of pecu-
liar peril, because all the original bitterness of
the strife had been intensified by three long
and bloody years.  Besides, the region between
the two armies was infested by guerillas, who
spared neither friends nor enemies, and who
had no regard for age or sex.  Sister Higgin-
botham was a heroine as great as any sung of
in classic story.  Without shedding a tear, she
saw her escort depart and leave her with one
dear daughter, just blossoming into girlhood,
one precious little grandchild, and two young
boys, to face all the dangers of that guerilla-
infested region.  The first night after her es-
cort left her, her party camped on the banks of
the Big Sandy.  In some mysterious way she
received an intimation that robbers had
hovered about her path, and that they were
intending to descend upon her camp, murder
the boys, steal the horses, and escape with all 
the portables of value.  Without a moment's 
hesitation she instructed her son and his com-
panion to take the horses up the river, and
there secure a trustworthy guide who could

[Column 2]
lead them through the mountains over to Cat-
lettsburg, a distance of seventy-five miles, where 
they were to unite themselves with David and
Simon  When Francis remonstrated against
leaving her, she told him that she and her two
girls would stay with the wagons and the
property, and without any earthly protector
they would still be kept in safety, and that
they would join him at Catlettsburg. Some
hours after the boys had departed the guerillas
assailed the little camp.  They ransacked the
two wagons, but failed to find any of the
money.  They took such things as they wanted,
and Sister Higginbotham offered no resistance
and solicited no favor, since she believed that
either would be fruitless.  But finally in over-
turning a trunk the robbers discovered the
clothing and jewelry of her dead daughter
Nancy, and these things appearing valuable,
they exultingly seized and apportioned them
among the members of their gang.  This out-
rage was more than she could bear, and she
screamed with pain and anger.  Fortunately,
she was heard by a Mrs. Blackburn, who lived
in that vicinity, and who hastened from her
residence to answer the call of distress.  The 
robbers, fearing to be identified by one who
could expose them to the vengeance of the
military authorities, fled.  Sister Higginbotham
found entertainment at the Blackburn residence
for a day or two, until a flat-boat came down 
the river; and upon this she took passage with
her two girls and such of her property as was
remaining after the assault of the mercenaries;
and then she journeyed in comparative safety
and comfort to Catlettsburg, where she found
David, Simon and Francis in good health, but 
very anxious concerning her.
     The party went to Omaha by boat, having
previously disposed of their horses. They ex-
pected at Omaha to join a company of Latter-
day Saints and proceed with their friends
across the plains; but they were disappointed
in their hope.  They purchased oxen for their
wagons and united with a company of Missouri
people, who were strangers to them and not of
their faith.  They traveled in peace for some
days, but their companions (some of whom
were from the mobocratic regions of Missouri),
discovered that sister Higginbotham and her
family were Mormons, and the cruel people,
having horse teams, deserted the little party
upon the plains and left them to fight their 
way across unprotected and alone.  Our friends
proceeded pluckily, though slowly; and but a
short time after they were deserted they found
the remains of the horse train.  Most of the
men had been slain, the wagons plundered,
and the stock stolen by Indians.  Only a few
people survived, and they were very glad to
rejoin the party of Mr. Peery and travel with
his ox-teams to the mountains.
     After reaching Utah, Sister Higginbotham
resided at Provo for a brief period, and then
came to Ogden.  In the meantime the strong
ties which had long existed between her family
and David H. Peery were doubled by his mar-
riage with her only surviving daughter--
Elizabeth Letitia.
     The struggles, privations and dangers of
her life were then ended, and she passed twenty
years of serenity.  She enjoyed the blessings
of the Temple, and performed labor there for
her departed kindred.  She was made happy
by seeing her three children, surviving out of a
family of seven, and also the dear daughter
of her departed Nancy, comfortably established
in life, and all filled with love for the Gospel.
Her two sons, Simon and Francis, are mer-
chants, and her daughter is the wife of Ogden's
Mayor and wealthiest citizen; while Nancy's
girl is married to Charles C. Richards, a
young and well-known lawyer of Ogden.
     Sister Higginbotham's descendents number
three children, eighteen grandchildren and
three great-grandchildren, all of whom are in

[Column Three]
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints.
     Louisa Ward Higginbotham has left to her
kindred an unstained memory.  Her goodness
was known wherever her name was spoken,
and will be remembered by hundreds whose
only relationship to her was through the Gos-
pel.  She was strikingly unostentatious in
dress, demeanor and speech; and yet she was so
calm and refined in appearance, in manner
and in language, that one could not fail to
recognize her as a lady of good birth and cul-
ture.  In the home circle her hospitality and
tenderness were unbounded.  Outside that
circle; her gentle deeds and ministrations to
worthy ones in need were constant, and were so
quietly bestowed that they were twice a blessing.
She was conscientious in every word and deed;
and in any matter of right she was as firm as
granite.  It is not often that we meet any per-
son, especially a woman, who possesses un-
demonstrative strength, but Sister Higgin-
botham had this rare quality in a marked de-
gree.  Her persistence in pursuit of a purpose
is illustrated by the great labor of her love
and life. In the days of her affluence and
popularity, she and one sister of all her family
accepted the truth. To it she sacrificed all the
favor and blessing of this world; and she perse-
vered until she brought those nearest and
dearest to her into the Church. Her integrity,
her patience, her tender goodness, her courage,
were sublime.  She has gone to receive an ex-
ceeding great reward.  May those who were 
loved and blessed in her life learn the lesson
taught by her peaceful death.	R.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Miss Maud Howe was married, Feb. 7, to
Mr. John Elliott, the English artist whom she
met first in Rome.

	Miss Ada Kurtz has been re-appointed
Deputy Sheriff of Franklin County, Pa. She
has served one term with credit.

	Miss Jean Ingelow, it is said, is likely to be
awarded one of the annuities given by the
Crown for distinguished literary services.

	Mr. Labouchere hears that Queen Victoria
wants Prince Alexander of Bulgaria to wed
the Duchees of Albany and settle down in
England on $40,000 a year.

	Miss Ellen Scanlan, of Baltimore, has been
sent to Italy by Cardinal Gibbons to pursue
her musical studies. Her father is a poor
laborer, but the cardinal, who is a great lover
of music, will furnish the means for her educa- 
tion.

	Mrs. Logan will make her first contribution
to magazine pages in the Chautauquan for
February. The subject is “Official Etiquette
in Washington.” She has also prepared for
another number of this magazine a paper on
“Women in the departments at Wathington.”

	Mrs. Sallie F. Chapin, of South Carolina,
was chosen president, and Miss M. L. Hatchett,
of North Carolina, secretary, of the Woman’s
Press Association of the South, which was
lately organized at Greenboro’, N.C. The ob-
ject of the Association, as defined in its Consti-
tution, is “to stimulate, encourage and develop
literary talent in and of the South, and to aid
such writers as are found worthy to gain recog-
nition in the world of letters. It proposes,
further, to provide a communication between
women writers, and to secure all the benefits re-
sulting from organized effort.” It already
includes members from North and South Caro-
lina, Virginia, Florida, Texas, Louisana, Geor-
gia, Illinois, New Jersey, New York, Maryland
and the District of Columbia.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


IT IS WELL.

Yes, it is well[-] the evening shadows lengthen;
	Home's golden gates shine on our ravished sight;
And though the tender ties we try to strengthen
	Break one by one—at evening time 'tis light.

'Tis well[-] The way was often dull and weary;
	The spirit fainted oft beneath its load;
No sunshine came from skies all gray and dreary,
	And yet our feet were bound to tread that road!

'Tis well that not again our hearts shall shiver
	Beneath old sorrows once so hard to bear;
That not again beside death's darksome river
	Shall we deplore the good, the loved, the fair.

No more, with tears wrought rom deep inner anguish,
	Shall we bewail the dear hopes crushed and gone;
No more need we in doubt or fear to languish,
	So far the day is past, the journey done.

As voyagers, by fierce winds beat and broken,
	Come into port beneath the calmer sky.
So we, still bearing on our brows the token
	Of tempest past, draw to our haven nigh.

As sweeter air comes from the shores immortal,
	Inviting homeward at the day’s decline;
Almost we see where from the open portal
	Fair forms stand beckoning with their smiles divine.

'Tis well[-] The earth, with all her myriad voices,
	Has lost the power our senses to enthrall.
We hear, above the tumult and the noises,
	Soft tones of music, like an angel's call.

'Tis well, O friends!  We should not turn—retracing
   	The long, vain years, nor call our lost youth back;
Gladly, with spirits braced, the future facing.
	We leave behind the dusty, foot-worn track.
						—Chambers' Journal


[Column 1]
	VARIOUS QUALIFICATIONS 

	My forte was needlework, to which I was
fairly drilled, my first lessons beginning when
I was so small (four years of age) that ma
used to seat me on the table edge so that my
work might be nearer her own eyes.  My very
fond and indulgent father provided me with a
gold thimble, made by a Spanish jeweler, from
a nugget he had himself taken from the mines,
for he was very proud of my desire to learn to
sew.  Afterward came long lessons from a lady
teacher or governess, who also taught me my
books, singing and dancing.  I remember that
it used to seem a long way across one end of a
napkin or a handkerchief, and I would often
quit when half way across the first end, and
proceed to the other end, foolishly fancying
that thus I was getting along faster by so doing.
The carefully and promptly finished work
brought kindly criticism and increase of work,
so that by the time I was eight years old I do
believe that all the long "over and over” seams
of sheets and pillow cases, all the hemming of
ruffles, towels, handkerchiefs aprons and table
linen were considered my work.
	I am sure my mother never realized the
silent weariness I toiled through during my
regular hours of sewing before I won at last
her “very well, now you can read or play.”
Next came the lessons in “backstitching,”
threads being drawn out of the cloth so the
line should be straight, and the stitches taken
up two threads back each time to insure uni-
formity of appearance.  Then came “sampler
work,” after which everything had to be
“marked” by needle and thread, and I used to
feel very proud over the initials worked by my
own hand, but now I can see it was needless
labor.		
	When I was about twelve, my mother had
in her employ an English sister, who was the
very pattern of neatness and good order.  I
remember that Sarah combed her hair with
exactly the same precision every morning, but
on wash-days it seemed to me she took special
pride in a fresh collar and white apron.  Cer-
tain evenings of hers were devoted to patching,
with such skill that checked or figured patterns

[Column 2]
were matched so that the place could hardly
be found.
	Certain other evenings were employed ex-
clusively in stocking darning, and so important
was the expression she wore, that I regarded
the art as of the highest dignity, and soon ven-
tured to ask for instructions.  Sarah deferred the
condescension until she found a worthless piece
of leg for my lessons, but which opportunity I
most humbly accepted, and in due time was
promoted to practice upon heel and toe.
	Dear good Sarah! what a shaking and scold-
ing she gave me once, when, catching the fever
of her “scouring” example, I, too, began upon
a pie plate.  Snatching it from me she showed
me how to scour it, round and round from the
outer edge in lessening circles to the very
centre of the plate, where she gave it a most
professional twist.  This, I was assured, was
the correct and only way that tinware should
be scoured.  Knives were to be scoured length-
wise.	
	Next came crochet work and plain embroi-
dery, and from then till I was twenty, I never
bought a yard of trimming, but made enough
for us all, even hemstitching and embroidering
our handkerchiefs, a dozen at a time, our
mother occasionally presenting us with a very
fine one.  So inbued was I with the spirit of
industry, that I besought ma to teach me knit-
ting.  She laughed at first, for the climate was
so warm that no one thought of wearing
knitted stockings; but as we looked forward to
coming to Utah some day, I thought knitting
and straw braiding might as well be learned.
My dear mother at last yielded, and “set  up”
for me a stocking of fine cotton yarn on fine
needles, for I wanted the work to look nice.
But oh, how tedious it was!
	By the time I got down to the heel, ma could
not be bothered, and I set out among some old-
fashioned friends and learned the heel and toe.
I endured many facetious allusions, and had
many relapses of zeal, but pushed on to the
glorious end, and had my triumph among other
scenes.
	Before we left California, an old French
shepherd came to ma and said he understood
the people in Utah practiced knitting, spinning
and weaving, and he desired to present to her
three fine fleeces from his best merino lambs,
which he hoped she would have converted into
yarn for her own hosiery.  These delightful
feminine occupatious he had not witnessed
since leaving his own country, and he was re-
joiced to hear of their practice among the Mor-
mon people, and felt that their primitive habits
and industry must insure their happiness and
wealth.  Ma accepted the fleeces with much
appreciation of the Frenchman’s sentiments
towards our people, and on arriving at St.
George (reminded perhaps by the intense cold)
soon had them converted into yarn.  I watched
the carding and spinning with deep interest,
and intefered with the hiring of the knitting
by doing it myself—six splendid pairs of hose.
“Now, aren’t you glad I learned to knit?”  Ma 
was so influenced by my zeal that she bought
me a spinning wheel, but somehow I could not
get the knack of doing any finer work than
doubling and twisting carpet yarn.  This
failure I very much regretted after kind neig[--]
bors had spent much time in vain.  Economy
of material prevented my learning to weave at
this time, but a kind sister promised me that
when she had some material she didn’t mind
wasting, she would let me know, and try to
teach me.  I waited long for a notification,
which never came, but I would even yet like
to learn; I should be proud of cloth or carpet
of my own weaving.	
	I look around upon my almost idle young
friends, their cardboard work, chenille and rib-
bon embroidery, or painting on satin, (no
patchwork in sight), and think of their lack
of knowledge in cutting out and making cloth-

[Column 3]
ing, and contemplate how prominent a figure
the hired seamstress will be in the future family
circles of these dear girls.  I fear their late
lessons in plain needle work will be trials.
Don’t I know a lovely young wife, whose dear
John was out of employment, and whose best
pantaloons of diagonal, colored striped material
had to be partially reseated?  And when those
diagonal patches were put in, sadly at variance
with the main design, and puckered all round
the edges, and he tried to smooth out the
puckers, and couldn’t, and tried to draw those
diagonal stripes to match each other and they
wouldn’t,and he looked at her and she looked at
him,and his coat was a short one,and there could
be no disguise of her needlework, how do you
think they felt?  Well, when John went out
of the gate he kicked the dog, and when she
went into the kitchen to wipe away the gather-
ing tears, the toe of her pretty slipper caught
in the braid that was coming unsewed from
the hem of her wrapper, and the saucepan 
handle caught in the unmended hole in her
apron, and the green peas rolled all over the
floor, besides scalding her pet kitten.   I looked
in her pretty workbasket, and wondered when
the ribbon work chair tidy, for John’s chair,
would get finished, and couldn’t help thinking
now much better it would be if she would turn
her attention  to  plain  work, and say, with a
good will, “If I must do homely work, I want 
it to be a credit to me.”
	Shall  I  tell  how  a  certain young man de-
cided which girl to take?  He did not know 
exactly, and hinted a little for advice from his
grandmother.  “Well, Dan,” said she, “you
just fish up some errand and go around both
places early in the morning, before breakfast,
once or twice, and see what you think after-
ward.”  Early next morning Dan called at
Jenny’s father’s back door, inquiring for him.
A cloud of smoke, issuing from an open oven
door, revealed a badly burnt batch of biscuit.
Without seeing him, Jenny, in unbuttoned
shoes, using her apron for an holder, with
flushed face, frowsy hair and cross ejaculations,
hurried out and threw the whole into the swill
pail. 
	Dan hurried away, surprised, and pursued
his way to the home of Annie Brown.  Answer-
ing to his knock, the door was opened, and
Annie, with pleasant smile, smooth hair and
clean apron, was carefully cleaning the inside
of the bread bowl clear to the bottom. This 
done, she carefully put away the bowl, mould-
ing board, flour scoop aud rolling pin.  On
the hearth a pan of golden biscuit looked very
tempting, the ham and eggs were done just
right, and as Annie wiped her hands, her 
father’s voice was heard in the hall calling the
family to prayers and breakfast   Dan excused
himself, promising to call later in the day.
He hurried home and told his grandmother.
"I don’t think you need any advice now," she 
said, laughing, “you know now just what kind
of a home you’d have with either.”	
	Then she told him of a young cotchman,
who, by dint of industry and economy, had
amassed a comfortable little fortune, and con-
templated marriage.  During an evening's ’
visit, his sweetheart arose and filled the stove 
crowding full of coal.  Allan looked at her in
thoughtful silence a little while, then rose to go.
She looked up at him in wonder, and he an-
swered her seriously and kindly:  “Bessie, I
have seen enough to take warning in time.
You would waste my earnings as fast as I
could bring them in.  It would be rash in me
to shut my eyes to this now, I would have to
see it all my life after.”  “You think more of
your money, than of me," bitterly retorted
Bessie.  “No, lass, I could lavi[-]h it upon you
in comforts but in waste, never! Goodbye.” 
	“Another time, Dan, I’ll tell you other stories,
and true ones, too.”	
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	Fecruuary 15,1887.


APOSTLE LORENZO SNOW AT LIBERTY.

	Washington, D. C., 3:30 p.m., February 7th,
1887.—The Supreme Court to-day reversed the
decision of the Utah court in the Snow case. The
syllabus set forth that where a district court in the
Territory of Utah refuses to issue a writ of habeas
corpus involving a question of personal freedom,
an appeal lies to this court from its order and
judgment of refusal. The offense of cohabiting
with more than one woman, created by the act of
March 22nd, 1882. is a continuous offense and not
one consiting of an isolated act. After giving
the history of the case, the court says: “On ap-
peal to this court it is held—first, there was but
one entire offense for the continuous time; second,
the trial court had no jurisdiction to inflict a pun-
ishment in respect of more than one of the con-
victions; third, as want of jurisdiction appeared
on the face of the proceedings, the defendant
could be released from imprisonment on habeas 
corpus; fourth, the order and judgment of the
court below must be reversed and the case re-
manded to that court with direction to grant the
writ of habeas corpus prayed for.”


[Column 1]
		﻿COMMENTS. 
	The decision of the Supreme Court of the
United States in the case of Lorenzo Snow was
something of a victory gained, and a cause for
gratitude to God among this people, who have
borne so much injustice from the misinterpreta-
tion of the Edmunds law. Those who have suf-
fered unjust imprisonment, and submitted to it
"willingly, because they were obliged to," being
sentenced by a judge who seemed to think himself
an autocrat, ought certainly to have redress for
such a grievance, but whether this can or cannot
be done is very uncertain. However, "It is better
to suffer wrong than to do wrong," add one need
not envy that Judge his conscience who has sent
men to prison in two or three or more counts, and
made them pay unlawful fines, it must sting
painfully, one would think, when he remembers
the wives and little children that have had to suffer
privation and wrongs for his cruelty, even if he
does not consider the father, and his separation
from those, he loves, as well as his humiliating
position behind the bolts and bars. O when will
men discern the beam in their own eyes, instead of
hunting and probing for the mote in their
brother’s?
	The segregation business is at an end, though
the officers still insist upon full fines, as in the
case of Royal B. Young. Where, the justice of
the thing stands is not apparent, except to those
who are after the dollars and cents of the Mor-
mons, "whom they affect to despise."
	Bro. Lorenzo Snow does not appear to cherish
any ill feeling towards those who have unjustly ac-
cused and falsely imprisoned him, and stands up
in defense of the principles of freedom and liberty
as nobly and as grandly as though the prison

[Column 2]
walls had never environed his freedom, or the
ponderous iron gates had never shut him in from
his family, his brethren and his people. Imprison-
ment cannot crush men’s souls, nor hinder their
communication with God and the Holy Spirit, if
they are suffering for principle, and one would
think that in the example of Apostle Lorenzo
Snow and others, who have been sent to prison
for conscience' sake, this fact would be sufficiently
illustrated for all the world to comprehend it.
Yet Bro. Snow, under the test oath in the Ed-
munds-Tucker bill cannot be accorded the privil-
ege of an American citizen any more than as
though he were actually guilty of a heinous crime
and his lineage, his descent from the Revolution-
ary fathers, avails him nothing. The liberty they
fought and bled for, that their children might en-
joy "the freedom, to worship God according to
the dictates of their consciences” has been denied,
and to their direct descendants, and there is no
alternative, under the present regime, but to sub-
mit to this violation of that sacred principle, as
Bro. Snow has, in such a manner as to dignify
and ennoble the cause he represents, and bring
the greater shame and disgrace upon those who
so ruthlessly trifle with the finest feelings of the
human heart, and scatter misery and sorrow
broadcast over this fair land.

	The Edmands-Tucker Bill is at this date, Feb.
15, still, pending. Hammond of Georgia, ap-
pointed to act for Tucker of Virginia, in his ab-
sence, submitted to-day the Conference report on
this anti-Mormon bill in,the House, and it was
ordered printed and laid over until Thursday.
	There are some very material changes, which
have been made by the Conferees, that will disap-
point the "Liberals” here in Utah, as well as
elsewhere; in fact the Committee have, some of
them at least, shown a little consideration, and
have made some changes that will be in our favor,
or that will not make the Governor of Utah an
absolute monarch in the exercise of political
power. The bill is bad enough as it is, and it is
"devoutly to be wished” that the President will
exercise the privilege of his position, and refuse
his signature and the great seal of the United
States to such an infamous bill, even if the Senate
and the House should both approve the bill as
amended.
	A singular coincidence that has transpired with
the authors of these two outrageous bills is that
during the discussion of the first Edmunds bill,
Mr. Edmunds buried a daughter, and that recently,
while Mr. Tucker was at work upon the Edmunds-
Tucker Bill, he has been compelled to leave his
post to go down to Mississippi and attend the
funeral of his daughter. Mr. Tucker, notwith-
standing his present attitude on the "Mormon"
question, is a man possessing an abundance of
affection for his family. This death will be a
severe blow to him, but it is not at all likely
that it will make him any more tender or sym-
pathetic towards "Mormon” wives or daughters.
We sincerely wish it might soften his feelings
and cause him to change his resolve to crush out
the system of plural marriage, of which he knows
so little, yet entertains such bitter prejudices.
	When the new bill, now under consideration,
becomes a law, if it ever should (which we most
sincerely trust never may happen) then it will be
given in full in the Exponent. By and bye, with-
out studying for it specially, the Mormon people
will become pretty well versed in law, practically.
	The taking away of the suffrage from women,
after they have voted for seventeen years, is an
inexcusable wrong; and more especially so in
men, who profess to be the friends of women, and
to protect their rights and "guard their best inter-
ests in the family and the home,” and all that
kind of sentimentalism, that means nothing at all,
but is a lot of political rubbish and bombast, that

[Column 3]
all sensible, women perfectly understand. If such
were indeed the case, they would give women the
right to protect themselves in their own states and
in the District of Columbia, the same as the "Mor-
mon” Legislature did in Utah, and not leave them
unprotected, with drunken husbands to beat them
and squander their hard earned means, and woman
would be considered in the election of officers, be-
cause her vote would count as much as the best
man’s in the country.

	The brave suffrage women, who made a forcible
protest to President Cleveland through their mem-
orial against the suffrage being taken away from
the legal women voters of this Territory, deserve
the gratitude and commendation of all the sup-
porters of the cause of woman’s rights throughout
this broad land. They have shown more interest
for our rights than any man or set of men. We
have not yet learned who all the ladies were,
but we do know that the names we have seen pub-
lished are a sufficient guarantee of the strength of
the Committee. The Chairman of the Committee
was Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake, of New York, a
woman whose keen Sarcasm and clear cut witti-
cisms are proverbial with all who know her. She
has spoken up in favor of the women of Utah be-
fore, and in her amusing little "Book of Fables"
she has two or three specially significant of the
dealings of the ’United States’ Government with
the Mormons.
	In the Resolutions adopted by the N. W. S. A.
at Washington, during the recent Convention is
the following:
	Whereas, The anti-polygamy bill passed by
both Houses of Congress provide for the disfran-
chisement of the non-polygamous women of Utah,
and,
	Whereas, The women thus sought to be disfran-
chised have been for years in the peaceable exer-
cise of the ballot, and no charge is made against
them of any crime by reason of which they should
lose their vested rights, therefore
	Resolved, That the association recognizes in
these measures, a disregard of individual rights,
which is dangerous to the liberties of all,and while
rejoicing in the majority vote by which the women
of Washington Territory were protected, we
would urge upon Congress that the rights of the
women of Utah should be equally sacred; since
to establish the precedent that the ballot-may be
taken away, is to threaten the permanency of our
republican form of government.	
	The President may disregard the .advice given
to him by these strong minded women—we use
this term in its best and most significant sense—
but he will not be likely to forget their earnest and
emphatic effort in behilf of women, even though
they be far away. All these things make a de-
cided impression, and will have their weight, even,
though the object, sought is not obtained. We
hope to receive full particulars of the memorial,
with the names of the Committee who presented
it, before publishing again. It is only just and
right to recognize and record the event, that all
interested may know there aro some women not
afraid or ashamed to speak in defense of the
rights even of "Mormon” women.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Monday, January 31st, a party of ladies as-
sembled, by invitation, at the residence of Mrs.
Maria Y. Dougall, to celebrate the birthday anni-
versary of Mrs. Zina D. H. Young. There were
present on the occasion some of the veteran
women of the Church, among the number, Sister
Eliza R. Snow Smith, Catherine Horrocks, Sarah
M. Kimball, M. Isabella Horne, Susan S.
Young, and others not so far advanced in years,
nnmberng about twenty-five or thirty guests.
Delicious chocolate and refreshments were ele-


[Column 1]
gantly served early in the afternoon, and later
an informal meeting was held. After singing, and
a prayer by Sister Mary A. Freeze, Sister Horne,
who had been appointed to conduct the meeting,
made a few opening remarks, congratulating Sis-
ter Zina on her having reached the age of sixty-
six years, and having had such a fruitful experi-
ence in the Church, and said many good and
pleasant things, and concluded by wishing her
many happy returns of the day, and joy to over-
flowing.
	Sister Eliza followed, alluding to the intimate
association of Sister Zina and herself, these many
years, their labors together in the Church, and,
laying her hands upon Sister Zina's head pro-
nounced upon her an impressive blessing, in
which she earnestly implored her to take care of
her own tabernacle, that she might have health
and vigor of body, and strength of mind to per-
form the mission which had been given her to fill
before she left the eternal worlds.
	Sister Julia Howe made some excellent remarks,
and related a few incidents that had transpired
during her recent visit to her native country
(England) where she had the opportunity of meet-
ing several clergymen and people of note, with
whom she conversed upon our doctrines.
	Sister E. B. Wells made brief remarks, and
read a few verses she had composed for Sister
Zina in 1872. Dr. E. S. Barney read a poem com-
posed by Dr. E. R. Shipp for the occasion, which
we give in full:
		LOVINGLY INSCRIBED
TO SISTER ZINA D. H. YOUNG, ON HER SIXTY-
SEVENTH BIRTHDAY.

	Dear Aunt Zina! what fond emotions swell
	At sound of that dear name, we love so well;
	Our hearts expand with love whene'er it's heard—
	In homes both far and near, a household word—
	From lisping infant on its mother's knee—
	To sage and bard, from every land and sea,
	All honor her; Ay, more than that, WE LOVE!
	Who has not felt her inspiration move
	The truest, deepest tendrils of the heart,
	And thrilled, with words whose holiness impart
	So much of comfort, hope and heavenly peace;
	And through her aid good works will e'er increase.

	Her hairs have silvered in the cause of truth,
	Since yielding it obedience in her youth.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith, in early years,
	Was her true friend, who shared her joys and tears; 
	And when the wicked sought to shed his blood,
	Firm and unwavering to the truth she stood;
	Companion faithful, too, of Brigham Young—
	With him for years she labored, and has sung
	The holy truths revealed by God to man,
	And aided by her faith and works the Gospel plan.

	In Israel a mother good and just.
	Faithful and true to every sacred trust;
	With sympathetic words and counsels wise,
	She ever helps the sorrowing souls to rise;	
	The burden of her own and other's cares
	She's borne in meek submission, faith and prayers;
	Her name will stand to all a beacon light,	
	For in our hearts 'tis written fair and bright.

	In feeble words we would a tribute pay
	Of love to her on this, her natal day;
	And breathe a fervent prayer to heaven,
	That health and strength and peace to her be given;
	Her joys increase, her days prolonged
	To see God's chosen people crowned;
	And she, among that choice and honored band,
	Be crowned a queen in the celestial land.
									E. R. SHIPP.
	Salt Lake City, Jan. 31st, 1887.

	Remarks were made by Dr. R. B. Pratt, S. M.
Kimball;Lucy B. Young and others including Sis-
ters Mary A. Freeze and Zina Y. Williams, whose 
presence among us once more,after their sojourn in
other parts,seemed quite inspiring. The party was
a very pleasant one, and Sister Zina, whose name 
is a household word throughout Zion, must have

[Column 2]
realized that her friends were genuine in their ap-
preciation and acknowlegdement of her labors
of love among the people. She is a woman of in-
tense sympathy, and specially gifted in ministering
to the sick, and comforting the sorrowful. We
feel assured there are many to whom she has
given consolation and advice, as well as minis-
trations of love in sickness, that will join with
those assembled on that day in wishing her every
blessing which the Lord bestows upon His faithful
daughters.
	ON Monday, February 7th, a little party of sis-
ters were gathered at the residence of Dr. Maggie
C. Shipp. Cordial greetings and general conver-
sation was indulged in, and the guests partook of
refreshments, including delicious ice cream, after
which Sister Zina D. H. Young was appointed to
preside over the meeting. A hymn was sung,
and prayer was offered by Sister E. B. Wells, and
after singing again, Sister Zina made a few re-
marks, and then called upon the sisters in their
order as they were seated around the room. With 
one or two exceptions every one present spoke a 
few words at least, expressing their feelings and
appreciation of the little interview, blessing Sister
Shipp, and rejoicing in the faith of the Gospel,
and in the victory gained in the Snow case, of
which news had just reached us by telegram from 
Washington.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze made a very eloquent
speech, alluding to her association with the Sisters
Shipp, and the beneficial influence to herself
through their friendship, encouragement and inter-
est in her welfare. Her remarks were fresh, original 
and inspirational, and must have been particularly 
so to those from whom she claimed to have re-
ceived such an impetus for good.
	Sister Maria Y. Dougall seemed much affected
when she rose to speak, and the spirit of prophecy,
which has more than once rested upon her of late,
inspired her words, and she broke forth in that
gift to the edification of all present.
	Sister Maggie Y. Taylor, Edna Smith, Louie
Taylor and Phebe Y. Beattie, who have not been
so much in the habit of speaking in public as
some others who were present, bore good testi-
monies, and manifested a desire to improve oppor-
tunities for spiritual development. Sister M. J.
Shipp of Beaver, though seemingly very diffident,
bore a good testimony.
	There was a good spirit and feeling, and all felt
blest in coming together and speaking to each
other words of encouragement and blessing. The
meeting was dismissed with prayer by Sister Mary
A Freeze, and each one must have felt benefitted
and strengthened by the little season of rejoicing.
	ON Tuesday, February 8th, Sister Elizabeth
Stevenson, of the 14th Ward, celebrated her
birthday. She invited a few of her intimate
friends to dine at her hospitable home, and spend
the afternoon and evening. There was no pro-
gramme, but many were the congratulations and
good wishes for her future happiness and ultimate
success in her noble endeavors to do good. She
is an admirable hostess, and the dinner, which 
was excellent in every particular, was handsomely
served, and partaken of with a relish that could
not be mistaken.
	From the dining room the guests were shown
back into the parlor, and after some desultory
conversation, Sister M. Isabella Horne was nomi-
nated to preside over the meeting. After singing
a hymn, prayer was offered by Sister Maggie
Y. Taylor, and short speeches were made by Sis-
ters Horne, Z. D. H. Young, B. W. Smith, M.
W. Snow, S. M. Kimball, E. B. Wells and others,
including Aunt Ann Richards (a very aged sister)
Sisters Maggie Y. Taylor, Julia Howe and Jane
Richardson. Many blessings were pronounced
upon Sister Stevenson by the sisters present, and
a grateful recognition of her labors of love was
awarded her by all who spoke. Sister Stevenson

[Column 3]
responded gracefully to every good wish and feel-
ing expressed in her behalf, and invited all present
to come again iu one year to celebrate her jubilee,
the 50th anniversary of her birth, and bring with
them their husbands. This was specially signifi-
cant, as among those present were several whose
husbands were in exile, and some of them in
foreign lands. The enjoyment, we do not hesitate
to say, was mutual with hostess and guests, and
all felt it had been a season of refreshing to the
soul.
	A MEETING of the Relief Society of the 15th
Ward, in honor of Sister Elizabeth Duncason's
birthday anniversary, was held in the Society
Hall, on Saturday afternoon, Feb. 12th, commenc-
ing at 2 p.m., Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball presiding.
After singing, prayer was offered by Coun. W. L.
Binder, and after singing another hymn Prest.
Sarah M. Kimball made the opening address, in
which she stated that Sister Duncason was the
first woman appointed to preside over a quorum of
teachers in the Relief Society, and that she had
ever been a faithful laborer.
	Sister M. I. Horne, in her remarke, expressed
her pleasure in meeting with the sisters to cele-
brate Sister Duncason's birthday; thought it was
right to honor those who fulfilled the duties en-
trusted to them, and asked the blessing of the
Lord to rest upon Sister Duncason in her basket
and in her store, in her incomings and outgoings,
that she might live long to do good to the poor
and needy.
	Prest. S. M. Kimball, in behalf of the commit-
tee, presented Sister Duncason with a handsome
and comfortable easy chair. Sister Ann Brown,
aged eighty-seven, spoke a few words and blessed
the sisters. Sister M. W. Snow occupied a few
moments; thought Sister Duncason was one of
the honored women of these days, and asked the
Lord to bless her in the future with health and
comfort; referred to the kindness of Sister Kim-
ball, and asked the Lord to bless her, and hoped
all present would have oil in their lamps, and be
prepared to meet the bridegroom.
	Sister B. W. Smith felt happy to meet with the
sisters to honor Sister Duncason. Spoke of the
organization of the Relief Society in the Prophet
Joseph's day; thought women were as willing to
live the principles of the Gospel as men were;
they had duties to perform as well as the brethren.
Felt to bless each one present with all her power.
	Sister M. Lois Morris made some good re-
marks, and blest Sister Kimball for her endeav-
ors to make Sister Duncason happy on her 68th
birthday anniversary.
	Coun. W. L. Binder, in behalf of the Bishopric
of the ward, spoke of the benefit the Relief So-
ciety had been to the ward, not only in looking
after the poor, but in their donations towards
building the meeting house, and other public ex-
penses; felt that the labors of the sisters were ap-
preciated by the brethren. Made other very ex-
cellent remarks, and blessed Sister Duncason
with health and strength of body, that she might
live to do good.
	Sister Ann McAllister spoke of the humble and
good spirit which had always accompanied Sister
Duncason; hoped we would all prove worthy of
eternal life.
	Sister Ann Duncason said, "We have been co-
workers for a long time." Thanked the Lord for
the privilege of doing good to the poor; hoped we
would all stand firm and faithful in this life, and
that we might soon see those that are in exile now,
liberated, and asked the Lord to bless and com-
fort the Saints. Dismissed with singing, and a 
benediction was pronounced by Sister Horne.
	Delicious cocoa, chocolate, sandwiches and
cakes, of which we had the pleasure of partaking,
were served to all present in the most gracefu
manner by some of the young sisters—Mrs. Julia
Taylor, Miss Lizzie Kimball and Miss Minnie
Grey—who seemed to take great pleasure in wait-


ing upon the older sisters, and the most genial
feeling and influence prevailed. Social conversa-
tion and enjoyment for a short time, and the party
dispersed with reluctance, having fully enjoyed
both the meeting and the visit.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A DELIGHTFUL AFFAIR.

	January the 15th, 1887, being the anniversary
of Sister Esther B. Fletcher, President of the
Eighth Ward Relief	Society, the teachers and
other members of the Society assembled in a sur-
prise on Sister Fletcher, at her residence, and
spent a very enjoyable time in chatting and con-
versing together. After passing the time in this
manner for a while, they retired to an adjoining
room, where some of the sisters had been busily
engaged in preparing supper, and here they par-
took of the bounties of life. After this they pre-
sented Sister Fletcher with a very nice as well as
suitable present, as a token of the love and es-
teem in which she is held by them. They then
resumed their old-time chatting, after which they
dispersed, with a hearty shake of the hand and
many voices saying, "God bless you, and many
happy returns of the day."
		JENNETTE MCMURRIN.


﻿NOTICE.

	Reports from the Relief Society branches of
this Stake are requested to be sent in by the 1st
of March. Address, Elizabeth Howard, 60 East,
Fourth South St., Salt Sake City.

	Relief Society Secretaries desiring blanks, will
please send directly to my address, 107, Main St.,
Salt Lake City, and save time. Stake reports are
respectfully requested to be sent in by March 20th
at the latest.
	ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D., Ass't Sec.


ABSENT, BUT NOT  FORGOTTEN.

	There is one face absent from our gathering
to-day, one that we have never missed before;
an honored and respected person, who has al-
ways honored us with her presence on occa-
sions like these.
	Sister Hannah T. King! how familiar the
name sounds to every ear; how the stately and
dignified form rises to our view; we can almost
see the noble and serene face as plainly as we
did a year ago, but it is only remembrance
that is left to us, the reality has passed away.
	Sister Hannah T. King has gone to rest; how
sweet must that rest be to her. She has left
traces of her useful life for our benefit.
	What a noble woman she was; and yet, what
a pure and humble spirit she possessed. To
know Hannah T. King was to honor and re-
spect her. Happy and favored are the persons
whom she called friends. Her heart reached
out in yearning to the young people in the
Church, and she was always ready to commend
all that she found praiseworthy in their
characters; but how often was her sensitive and
refined nature shocked by the rude and boister-
ous manner of some of the young people.
	Talent she could appreciate to its fullest
extent; beauty she admired, if it reached as
deep as the heart; worth she prized far above
wealth.
	The young ladies of the Seventeenth Ward are
indebted to this noble woman for many words
of instruction and advice. She always took a
great interest in their welfare, and only re-
gretted that they would not take a greater in-
terest in themselves.
	Sister King always took a great interest in
intellectual gatherings, and was always prepared
to give for what she received. To reflect upon
the life and character of this great woman
would be of benefit to all. She made sacrifices


of a character that few ever make for religion's
sake, yet how firm and uncomplaining she
stood through it all unto the last. How con-
sistent were her actions with her professions!
She taught by example as well as by precept.
	Reverence formed a large part of her charac-
ter.  Her sensitive spirit was often touched
through the light manner in which the sacra-
ment is partaken of by members of the Church.
She looked upon this ordinance as being as
sacred as the presence of the Savior Himself.
She was often annoyed by the gossip that
is carried on in places of worship among the 
Latter-day Saints. She always thought that
these places ought to be revered as sacred to
the worship of God, so that nothing would in-
terfere with the free flowing of His Spirit.
	Pages might be written concerning Sister
Hannah T. King, but her life, and the way she
lived it, speaks enough; she needs no person's
praise or eulogies. Did we wish to recompense
her for the noble example which she has laid
before us, we will follow that example, and
always hold her name in loving and respected
remembrance.
		ELLA DALLAS
	Written for the Young Ladies' Quarterly Re-
view, and read at the annual meeting of the
17th Ward Y. L. M. I. A., Jan. 21, 1887.


[Column 1]

﻿R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A REPORTS.

BEAR LAKE STAKE Y. L. M. I. A.

	On Sunday, Jan. 23rd, 1887, the young
ladies' of the Bear Lake Stake of Zion held
their semi-annual conference, in St. Charles,
Idaho, Mrs. N. E. Pugmire presiding.
	The conference was well attended, and well
represented by the several Associations. Much
good instruction was given by the Presidency
of the Y. L. M. I. A., by Prest. William
Budge and others.
	The President advised the young ladies to
preserve the identity of their own organization
by holding meetings separate and independent
of the Young Men's Association, excepting
occasional conjoint meetings; and gave some
good and sound reasoning th[--]efor.
	Prest. Wm. Budge urged the same policy,
as most beneficial to both Associations.
	Coun. Amy Cook gave some interesting and
importaut counsel to the young ladies concern-
ing industry and self-help, showing how they
may become useful in domestic affairs, and
measurably independent.
	All seemed to rejoice in the great blessings
conferred upon the Saints through the restora-
tion of the everlasting Gospel.
		L. M. HART, Stake Sec.

BEAR LAKE STAKE R. S.

	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society of Bear Lake Stake was held in the
St. Charles meeting house, Jan. 22nd and 23rd,
1887, commencing Saturday at 10 a.m., Prest.
Julia P. Lindsay presiding. Singing. Prayer
by Bishop Calder. Singing. Roll called.
Minutes of previous conference read and ap-
proved. Statistical and financial report read
by the Secretary.
	Prest. Lindsay addressed the conference:
Felt very thankful for the privilege of again
meeting with her sisters. Did not feel dis-
couraged by any means, "although there are
often obstacles in our pathway to cause us to
feel discouraged, if we would allow them to do
so. We would not occupy this position and
perform our labors and duties with the assiduity
that we do, did we not know it to be in ac-
cordance with the will of God." Desired to
hear the verbal reports of the Relief Society.
They were as follows:
	Coun. Mary A. Virgin reported the St.

[Column 2]

Charles Relief Society; Prest. F. Howell, Fish
Haven; Prest. Ann Cook, Garden City; the
Secretary read a report of the Paris 1st Ward;
Paris 2nd Ward reported by Prest. M. A.
Shepherd.
	Prest. Lindsay continued her remarks. Said
she had not been able to visit the Relief Society
as she desired, as her health would not permit.
Her Counselor, Sister E. Collings "is not able
to attend this morning, as the riding last even-
ing affected her so as to make her quite sick."
Explained her situation to the sisters, but ex-
pressed her desire to perform her duties as far
as she was able. "We are few in number com-
pared to those who are fighting against us, but
we have only to look unto God; the same who
preserved Daniel when, cast into the lion's den,
is our God to-day: We should have charity
for those who are fighting against us. The
Lord says, 'Vengeance is mine, and I will re-
pay.'"
	Prest. Annie Laker, of the Primary Associa-
tion, bore her  testimony. "These organiza-
tions tend to draw us closer to each other, and
closer to the Lord." Thought the time had
really come when there was a famine for the
word of God. "We are living for something
that will be a comfort unto us in the hereafter.
God has never required anything of us that
we cannot do." Spoke of the important mis-
sion of a mother in Israel.
	Prest. Lindsay Stated that Sister Julia
Budge had sent in her resignation as Corres-
ponding Secretary. It was received, and a
vote of thanks given for her past services. Sis-
ter Lottie Price, of Paris, 2nd Ward, was
appointed to occupy the position. Singing.
Benediction by Elder J. Windlys.
	Sunday, 2 p.m. Singing. Prayer by Coun.
James H. Hart. Singing. Sacrament adminis-
tered, and the hymn, "How great the wisdom
and the love," etc., was sung.
	Prest. Lindsay felt very much gratified with
having the privilege of meeting again this
afternoon. "It is much crowded, but I hope
the people will endeavor to make each other as
comfortable as possible. There are some of the
presidents here to-day who were not here yester-
day; we shall hear them give their reports.
	Prest. Carlson reported the Relief Society of
Ovid; Prest. Dalrymple,Preston; Sister Turner,
Liberty; Prest. M. Vanorman, Bennington.
	Coun. Elizabeth Collings expressed the
gratitude she felt towards her Heavenly Father
for once more permitting her to meet with the
Saints. "God only knows how many more
times we may have this privilege. Let us
love one another, and keep this great command
of God; it is one of the greatest He has given.
Let us put aside our selfishness. If we would
all observe the "golden rule" how blest we
would be."
	Coun. L. M. Hart said, "It is with a degree
of pleasure that I again behold the faces of
those before me. We have had our duties
plainly laid before us to-day, and it is left with
us whether we perform them or not." Urged
the sisters to be energetic in attending to all
their duties, such as donations, fast meetings,
etc. Hoped we would come forward and
faithfully discharge our duties. Invoked the
blessing of God upon all.
	Prest. Lindsay gave more valuable instruc-
tions to the sisters, exhorting them, in her
usual kind and motherly way, to diligence in
attending their meetings, and performing every
duty enjoined upon them. "If we have not
the Spirit of God with us to-day it is our own
fault. Children should respect their parents.
It is the duty of every child to look after his 
parents. Children and grandchildren should
look after and provide for the wants of their 
parents and kindred. Do not acts of charity
for a name, but because it is pleasing to God."
Gave instructions to the secretaries with regard


to making out reports.  Invoked the blessing
and peace of heaven upon all.
	Coun. James H. Hart said, "Such admoni-
tion and instruction as we have heard to-day
must certainly make impressions upon our
minds." Spoke of the blessings we as a peo-
ple enjoy; also to some extent on intemperance.
"A drunkard cannot enter the kingdom of
heaven.  Let us do the work which we have to
do with singleness of heart. 'He who waits to
be commanded in all things is a slothful ser-
vant.' 'He who knoweth the Father's will
and  doeth  it not shall be beaten with many
stripes.' " Said he always enjoyed the ladies'
conference, as a kind and good spirit prevails.
	Conference adjourned for six months.  Sing-
ing, "Nearer Home." Closing prayer offered
by Prest. Wm. Budge.
			JULIA P. LINDSAY, Prest.,
			ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Sec.,
			N.  E.  HUNT, Cor. Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

		  M. J. TANNER.

		Continued.
	Saturday, April 18th.  We met some mis
sionaries at Chicago who had come by the U
P. R. R., among whom is a Mrs. Nelson.  She
and I took a bed in the sleeper, but we prefer
our seats in the other car among our friende;
we felt so isolated.  We knew that everything
was so completed, organized and protected,
that we must be perfectly safe, yet we could not
help feeling nervous.
	We are in Ohio this morning.	It still rains,
and everything looks so dreary—water stand-
ing  over  the ground for  miles.  We pass
through a great deal of timbered country, such
tall, straight trees and very little underbrush.
We pass some  pretty farms, but see no one
stirring, and no sign of spring.  The land is so 
hilly that irrigation would be quite out of the
question.  There are forty-nine of us in the
company, and we need a whole car, which we
have most of the time; then we attend our de-
votion night  and  morning.  Bishop Price
offered prayer this morning.
	Akron, 8:35.  A fine city, with pretty resi-
dences in the suburbs.  We can judge but very
little of the main city, as we go in between two
rows of cars, aud we can only catch a glimpse
down some of the streets.  The majority of the
houses that we see are frame, but we pass some
large, substantial looking brick houses.  We
pass immense yards of tile for draining the
land, and the country looks as though it was
needed.  Now we pass miles of rail fence; we
never see such in Utah.
	At Kent we were requested to go in another
car, as they wish to leave the one we are in.
We  gather up our things and rush into the
other car, which we find rather dirty and un-
comfortable, but what troubles us most is that
we are mixed with other people.  Our travel-
ing outfits of blankets, lunch and satchels
marks us as travelers, and all eyes are turned
upon us; we feel indignant, for we are ticketed
first class to New York, with promise of special
cars, which we have had most of the time so
far.  Brothers Smith and Price try to make us
as comfortable as possible.
	Shenango, 11:35.  We have been so con-
fused and broken up that we have not yet
breakfasted.  Poor Sister Harrison wants her
tea, but we see no chance of making any, and 
none of us feel like opening our lunch baskets.
The clouds are breaking, and the country im-
proves.  Ever since leaving Chicago I have
felt as if we were traveling west.  We see a 
little pine timber; so many stumps indicate that
people have to clear the land for their farms.
We see long lines of fence made by turning
stumps on one side, leaving their sprangling
roots to form a barrack; they have been washed

[Column 2]
and bleached by the elements until they look
quite picturesque.  We stop for dinner, and
Bro. Price gets us some tea.  The men of our
party drink water, but we old ladies feel as
though we must have a little tea to refresh us
after being broken of our rest so much, and
the continued racket and jar of the train is
very wearisome to our nerves.  It is not rain-
ing now, but is still cloudy.  We see ice and
snow by the bank of a creek.  The country is
wild and mountainous.  2:40, we pass Chatau-
que, the lake of which is frozen over.  The
sun is shining.
	Jamestown, 3:5.  We expected to change
cars here for Niagra, but they tell us if we
stop to see the Falls we will have to stay all
night there, so we go on to New York.  The
country is still mountainous, and the hills are
nearly covered with snow.  We see but little
stock, and very few children.  5 p.m.  They
have given us a special car, and we pick up
our things and move again.  We feel more at
home and less open to criticism.  We are pass-
ing through the oil regions of Pennsylvania.
	Sunday, April 19.  We have got through
another night; I think it is the most uncomfort-
able one we have spent.  We stop at Jersey
City.  Our journey is done, and we are well
satisfied to leave the cars.  Bro. Hart meets
us in the waiting room; he is the emigration
agent, and has come to show us the way to our
stopping places.  Mrs. Nelson and I walk
around a little, and try to look out of the win-
dow to see what things look like in our new 
quarters.  When we come back the company
have gone, vanished like a dream, and we are
left alone.  Shut in by iron gates, we cannot
see out, nor look after our friends to see which
way they have gone.  It makes us feel rather
queer, but the man at the ticket office tells us
there will be a boat there in fifteen minutes.
We meet a young man of our company who
has waited for us, which is somewhat soothing
to our nerves.  The boat comes presently, and
the gates are opened.  We go on board and
cross the river.  Mr. Hart is waiting for us; he
takes us  on  a  street  car and we go to the
Grand Central Hotel.  Mrs. N—and I take
a room together, and  a  meal  card.  We are
taken   on  an  elevator up  three  stories; our
room is 454.  We are alone now, and have no
idea where anyone else is, but it seems very
comfortable to be in  a quiet room once more,
away from the noise and jar of the train; still
it seems continually rumbling in our ears.  We
have a pleasant room, nicely furnished.  In
one corner is a marble bowl, furnished with
hot and cold water; in another a closet to hang
our dresses in.  We want to clean up and go
down to breakfast, but our trunks have not
come.  We wash and brush and do the best
we can, and find, by the notice on the door,
that breakfast is not yet over.  We get on the
elevator, which is furnished with mirrors on
three sides and cushioned seats.  We tell the
waiter we wish to go to the dining room, and
he lets us off and tells us which way to go.  A
very black specimen of humanity meets us at
the door; we show him ou[-] meal card, and he
hands us over to another negro waiter, who
seats us at a round table, and hands us a bill
of  fare.  We tell him what we will have,
and while he is gone for it we have leisure to
eat oranges and make observations.  We see a
large room hung with mirrors, and lace curtains
at the windows, round tables, large enough for
four persons, which are multiplied indefinitely
as we glance at the mirrors.
	Waiters are gliding about attending the
different tables; some are of pure negro blood,
but most of the younger ones are mixed, and
represent all shades or degrees of consanguinity;
all draped in black, with white bosoms, aprons,
neckties and cuffs.  Their hair is closely shaved,
and I certainly never saw so many good look-
ing colored men.  Some of them are whiter
than many dark complexioned people of the

[Column 3]
white race, but they all show the negro blood.
A couple, whom we judge to be newly married,
have seated themselves at our table; the gentle-
man is fine looking, and the lady is perfectly
lovely, with her paints and frizzes, and her
melting black eyes, and elegant morning toilet
of delicate pink.  She seems very much in
love with her escort, who is very kind and po-
lite to her.  They saved their comments for
their neighbors for an after breakfast relish.
Our breakfast is served, and we get through it
some way to our satisfaction.  We are offered
toothpicks at the door, as we pass out and go
to our room.


PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE.

	CINCINNATTI, Ohio, Jan. 18, 1887.
MRS. HELEN MAR WHITNEY:
	DEAR FRIEND:—I was away from home
when the pamphlet you sent came to hand, and
it was put aside with miscellaneous papers, and
I only came across and read it last Sunday.
Please accept my sincere, though tardy, thanks.
I enjoyed reading the speeches made by so
many of the Mormon ladies.
	This Mormon question has great interest for
me, and I should like to come out and study it
fully, impartially. I do not pretend to say I
believe in Mormonism, but I do not disbelieve
in it. I know, or at least feel sure, that plurali-
ty of wives would benefit many—most of the
homes of my acquaintances—and as it was the
practice of the olden times, when Abraham,
Isaac, Jacob and the other "men of God"
lived,and when men held direct communication
with God, I do not see how Christians can say
it is so dreadfully wicked in the sight of God.
It seems to me it would be more sensible to
confine. the argument to the expediency, the
moral right of the matter. Intemperance is
wicked, wrong, because it injures the person
who drinks, brings poverty, sorrow and often
death to those dependent on him. But such
results need not necessarily follow polygamy.
*	*	*	My rule of life is, right is
right, wrong is wrong. God cannot look upon
sin with the least degree of allowance, but who
can decide for another what sin is.
	Now, I do not wish to deceive you, and have
you think that I profess to believe in Mormon-
ism. I am, as we Methodists say, only "open
to conviction." Were I to come out there and
be fully convinced against you, I should not
be slow in saying so. But I can honestly, truth-
fully say, that so far as I have read of the sub-
ject, for and against, I believe you are more
than half (to say the least) right, and that
Mormonism will not be obliterated.
	For yourself, Mrs. Wells, Eliza Roxie Snow,
Mrs. Crocheron, the Pratt women, and many
others, whose names do not just now come to
my mind, we, my  husband and I, feel the
greatest respect, I might almost say affection,
and you will always have our best wishes.
	Yours truly,
		EMILY SCOTT.


ANNUAL MEETING OF Y. L. M. I. A.,
SEVENTEENTH WARD.

	(The annual meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
the 17th Ward was held at the residence of
Coun. Mrs. F. S. Richards, on Jan. 21st, 1887.
Nearly all the members of the Association
were present; also a large number of visitors,
among whom were seen the beloved faces of
Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith and Zina D. H.
Young. President J. C. Howe presided over
the meeting with her usual dignified and lady-
like manner.)
	After the usual opening exercises, an histori-
cal and financial report of the Association for
the past year was read by the Secretary, and
accepted by the Association. These reports


showed the Association to be in good condi-
tion.
	The main, feature of the programme was the
reading of the paper, which was read in three
sections, and was very interesting; indeed it
was a credit to the Association.  The articles
contained therein were entirely original, and
treated upon various subjects—biographical,
physiological, political, moral and religious—
each subject being treated in an intelligent
manner, and were read intelligently by the
editor, Miss Emma Ellerbeck.  Songs were
rendered between the sections of the paper, by
Miss May Preston and Miss Lizzie Smith,
which made a pleasant change from the
reading.
	The meeting was addressed by Sisters Eliza
R  Snow Smith, Zina D. H. Young, S. M.
Kimball, B. W. Smith, Lula G. Richards, M.
Y. Dougall and others.  Much good instruc-
tion was given, and words of commendation
were spoken to the members of the Association.
Each speaker asked God’s blessing upon the
officers and members of the Association.
	During the meeting Sister Eliza spoke in
tongues, and Sister Zina interpreted.  In the
tongues Sister Eliza said, that there were those
present who would receive the gift of tongues,
interpretation, prophecy and healing, and that
they would be sought after for the comfort and
consolation which they would be enabled to
impart through exercising these gifts.  One
thing was remarkable, the interpretation was
given in exactly the same manner as the
tongues were spoken.  This should be a strong
testimony of the truth and power of these
gifts.  A sweet spirit seemed to prevail through-
out the meeting, and all seemed to partake of
its influence.
	A strange coincidence pertaining to this
meeting was that it happened upon Sister
Eliza’s birthday, without any previous thought
or pre arrangement to that effect, the day
being her eighty-fourth birthday.  She received
many sincere congratulations and good wishes
from both old and young that were present.
She remarked that this had been one of the
happiest anniversaries of her life.
	Sister Richards was a true hostess, welcom-
ing each one with words of kindly greeting,
looking carefully to the comfort of all.  The
Association was blessed in having, the privilege
of meeting at her house, where all things were
so comfortable and convenient; on the other
hand, Sister Richards was blest by being
privileged to have the meeting there.
   After the adjournment and closing exercises
of the meeting, all were invited to the dining
room, where a delicious supper had been pre-
pared by the young ladies, of which all partook
with a relish.  The young ladies waited upon
the. table in a graceful manner.
	The evening was afterwards spent in pleasant
and instructive conversation, interspersed with
music.  All went away feeling that they had
indeed had a feast,spiritually and temporally.
			      ELLA DALLAS Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The National Woman Suffrage Association
held a convention in Philadelphia, Feb. 1.
	Among the ladies who are studying at the
Faculté de Médecine in Paris, this year, are
eighty-three Russians, eleven English; seven
French, three Americans, two Austrians, one
Roumanian, and one Turk.
	Col. T. W. Higginson will write during the
year a series of articles on "Literary Tenden-
cies," for the New York Independent. He is
an enthusiastic tobogganist, and declared that
"at the ripe age of sixty-three" he finds much
fnn in it.


Dr. Martha G. Ripley has esthblished a
"Maternity Hospital," in Minneapolis, for poor
girls who have been deceived, but whose previ-
ous record has been good. It is also for mar-
ried women who are in poverty. Poor children
are admitted for surgical cases. The physicians
and officers of this hospital are all women, as
it is proper they should be.
	Mrs. H. R. Shattuck publishes in John B.
Alden's miscellany, the Library Magazine,
"The story of Dante's Divine Comedy," being
a revision of her letters written from the Con-
cord School of Philosophy, last summer, to the
Springfield Republican and Boston Transcript.
It is not a report of the lectures on Dante
there delivered, but a connected account of
the great poem of Dante, made up from the
lectures correlated with other writings on the
subject.


﻿OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at the family residence, in the 17th Ward, Salt Lake
City, Mary Jenson, the beloved wife of Andrew Jenson,
after about ten weeks suffering.  She was born in Bjerggard,
Hellevad Sogn, Hjorring Amt, Denmark, March 7, 1859;
was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints May 24th, 1873; enigrated to Utah in 1875, and was
married to Andrew Jenson August 30, 1875.  She leaves,
besides her husband, four children—two sons and two
daughters—and died in full faith of all the principles of
her religion, to which she had yielded obedience.  She was
a dutiful wife and mother, and was much beloved and re-
spected by all who knew her.
										COM.

	DIED, at Manti City, Sanpete Co., Sister Cecelia J.
Hansen, born July 6, 1829, in the City of Aalborg, Den-
mark, and departed this life Jan. 6, 1887.  She was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Feb. 6, 1851 She buried her mother in June, 1852, who
was the first member of the Church who died in that city.
Sister Hansen left Denmark that fall with the emigration
Dec. 20, 1852, and arrived in Salt Lake City Sept. 29, 1853.
Lived at Israel Ivins' until she married Niel Hansen,
Sept. 10, 1854.  She was the mother of seven children,
three sons and four daughters; she had also two adopted
children; four have gone before her; she leaves a husband,
two sons and three daughters to mourn her loss.  She died
in full faith of the Gospel to her latest breath, and admon-
ished all her children, one by one, to faithfulness in the
latter day work under all circumstances.  She was a faith-
ful member and teacher in the Relief Society, and did
many deeds of charity among the poor.  We deplore her
demise, and pray that He, who doeth all things well, will
heal and comfort the mourning hearts.
							A. R. KELLER, Sec.
	In behalf of the Relief Society.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is with deep feelings of sorrow and regret that we re-
cord the death of one of our dear sisters, Sister Evaline
Clark Lee, who departed this life at eight o'clock on the
morning of the 2nd of January, 1887, at Secora Co., N.
M.  She was the daughter of John W. Clark and Evaline
Brown, and wife of J. D. Lee.  Born Feb. 14, 1858, at
Washington, Washington Co.,Utah Territory  Her eldest
boy preceded her the 17th of last March, so she now
leaves three small children, husband, mother, brothers,
sisters and many friends to mourn her loss.  She seemed
robust and hearty, but a complication of diseases set in,
which were beyond the aid of human skill.  She suffered
terribly for ten days, when she passed calmly away.  Her
desire to live was very great, as she was a very affectionate
wife and an indulgent mother.  She held the position of
Treasurer in the Relief Society and First Counselor in the
Primary Association, which positions she but recently
resigned,  on  account  of  her  duties at home.  She
was able to give wise and instructive counsel to her sisters
on all occasions, in public or at home.  She manifested
g[-]eat faith during her suffering, and although we miss her,
we feel to say, as she did many times, "Thy will be done,
O Father."
					VIRGINIA CURTIS, President,
					GERTRUDE REYNOLDS,
					MAY SWAPP, Counselors.
	Of the Primary Association.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

David James & Co.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
[icon of pointing finger] Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFTand FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[pointing finger icon] Address, DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z.C.M.I
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,.
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,  
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
[pointing finger icon] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H.S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANES GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

