VOL. 16.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1887.		No. 4.


PEACEABLE FRUIT.

"Never the less afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of
	righteousness.”—Hebrews 12: 11.

	What shall Thine "afterward" be, O Lord,
		For this dark and suffering night?
   	Father, what shall Thine "afterward" be?
   	Hast Thou a morning joy for me,
		And a new and joyous light?

	What shall Thine "afterward” be, O Lord,
		For the moan that I cannot stay?
	Wilt Thou turn it to some new song of praise,
	Sweeter than sorrowless hearts could raise,
		When the night hath passed away?

	What shall Thine "afterward" be, O Lord,
		For this helplessness of pain?
	A clearer view of my home above,
	Of my Father's strength and my Father's love?
		Shall this be my lasting gain?

	What shall Thine “afterward” be, O Lord, 
		How long must Thy child endure?
	Thou knowest !  'tis well that I know it not !
	Thine "afterward" cometh; I can not tell what,
		But I know that Thy word is sure.

	What shall Thine "afterward" be, O Lord?
		I wonder and wait to see;
	(While to Thy chastening hand I bow)
	What "peaceable fruit" may be ripening now,
		Ripening fast for me?—Selected
									M. R. J.


ENDURANCE.

How much the heart may bear and yet not break.
	How much the flesh may suffer and not die;
I question much if any pain or ache
	Of soul or body brings the end more nigh.
		Death chooses his own time; till that is worn
		All evils may be borne.

We shrink and shudder at the surgeon's knife,
	Each nerve recoiling from the cruel steel,
Whose edge seemed searching for the quivering life;
	Yet to our sense the bitter pangs reveal
		That still, although the trembling flesh be torn,
		This, also, can be borne.

We see a sorrow rising in our way,
	And try to fly from the approaching ill;
We seek some small escape—we weep and pray—
	But when the blow falls, then our hearts are still;
		Not that the pain is of its sharpness shorn,
		But that it can be borne.

We wind our life about another life,
	We hold it closer, dearer than our own.
Anon it faints and falls in deadly strife,
	Leaving us stunned and stricken and alone;
		But oh! we do not die with those we mourn—
		This also, can be borne.

Behold! we live through all things—famine, thirst,
	Bereavement, pain! all grief and misery,
All woe and sorrow; life inflicts its worst
	On soul and body, but we cannot die,
		Though we be sick and tired, and faint and worn;
		Lo! all things can be borne.
			
					ELIZABETH AKERS ALLEN.


[Column 1]
		A FEW THOUGHTS.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I feel quite guilty in neglecting to write for
our paper for so long a time. It has not been
because I had not a desire to help maintain

[Column 2]
our paper, the rights of the women of Utah,
or the principles of the Gospel. I am fully
aware of the necessity there is of every one be-
ing alive to their duties, and it is the duty of
every one who bears the name of Latter-day
Saint, to show their faith by their works, and
always be willing to use the talents the Lord
has given them for the benefit of the cause of
truth.
	We are living in a momentous time of the
world’s history, and we cannot shut our eyes to
the fact that the end is fast approaching a con-
summation. The events that are taking place
day by day, demonstrate beyond a doubt, that
the Lord is working out His designs in His own
way; and the question with us is, “Are we pre-
pared? Have we oil in our lamps? Do we
realize the magnitude of the responsibility rest-
ing upon us as Saints? Do we keep up with
the spirit of the times, or are we asleep, using
our time, energy, and talents in folly and
fashion?” The exigency of the times calls for
all the energies of the Saints to be concentrated
upon their religion, and the maintenance of
what few rights we have left.
	The rulers of the nation have seen fit to de-
prive us of the right of FRANCHISE, because we
did not fulfill their expectations in catering to
their ideas, but used our right, as free born
women should, for the establishment of pure
principles, of equal rights, of a virtuous com-
munity, and the selection of men for office that
would secure to us these heaven-born principles.
They preferred no charge against us, but took
from  us  this right without giving us the
chance to defend ourselves, the right perserva-
tive of all other rights. because of our opinions.
And will we submit? Yes, under protest, leav-
ing our cause in the Almighty ruler’s hand,
knowing He will deal out justice and equity
to all. We claim that it is unconstitutional;
we claim that we have a right to our belief
untramelled.
	The Constitution plainly states that “the
FRANCHIS﻿E once given cannot be taken away;”
it becomes our property, a part of our posses-
sions, and the loss of it deprives us of what
was our own individually. One must prove a
person guilty of treason before he or she can
constitutionally be deprived of this right.  And
in what does treason consist? “In levying war,
or giving aid and comfort to the enemies of the
United states.” Senators and statesmen of a
great nation must be terrible cowards to be
afraid that the women of Utah would “levy
war against the United Stales.” Oh, consist-
ency, thou art a jewel!
	We find, by referring to the law, that all
persons born or naturalized in the United
States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof,
are citizens of the United States, and that no
law shall be made to deprive them of life,
liberty or property, or the equal protection of
the law.” What a falling away from the spirit
and design of the Constitution! We revere
that sacred document as heaven born; we be-
lieve the men that formed it were inspired of
God to do just what they did, and we will
teach our sons and daughters to love it, to de-
fend it, and let freedom and equal rights be
their watchword. We will teach them that
every man and woman are born free and equal;
that God, the Father of their spirits, made
them free; that the Constitution makes them
free, and that the Gospel makes them free, and
that they are the slaves of no faction, but inde-

[Column 3]
pendent, with the right to worship God in the
way that he marks out.
	How like  to olden times is the present.
Then it was a band of pilgrims flying from the
arbitrary rule of the Stuarts—a band of hum-
ble and peaceable religionists flying from cause-
less oppression! It was conscience attempting
to escape from arbitrary despotism, a Robinson,
a Brewster, leading of a little band from their
native soil to find a shelter in an unknown land,
where they could enjoy religious freedom. How
like to the little band of Saints who left their
homes in the east, driven from state to state,
until they were driven beyond the confines of
the United States, and when, after surmounting
untold difficulties, braving a thousand dangers,
and suffering the pangs of hunger and sickness,
they found a home in these mountains, and
with their love of liberty unfurled the stars
and stripes to the breeze, and pledged their
lives, their honor, their all to defend it. What
a noble band! when they had suffered so much
at the hands of the nation, left their loved ones
in unmarked graves on the plains, their young
children, men and maidens, grey haired fathers
and mothers deprived of their homes and pos-
sessions, and driven at the point of the gun in-
to the wilderness to find a home, yet they cling
to the old flag.
	And now when we have made the valley to
blossom as the rose, and this barren waste a
fruitful field, they would take our all.  We,
like the Pilgrim Fathers, put our trust in our
Father, the Supreme Ruler, knowing He will
defend our rights and deal out justice and
equity to all. We know that God lives, and
that He has revealed Himself to man in this
day, and we know we have seen His power
made manifest, and make bold to declare it to
all nations, and if we obey His laws we shall
be saved at the last day; we have proved it to
be true, and though men may deride and scoff,
yet we still know that it is the power of God
unto salvation to all that believe, and con-
demnation to those who reject it.
	Praying for the success of our paper, the
EXPONENT of the rights of the women of
Utah, I am,
	Your sister in the Gospel of peace,
					S. A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	A. Bronson Alcott will spend the summer
with his daughter, Mrs. Pratt, at Melrose,
Mass. He is no longer able to hold a pen, and
does all his work by dictation.

	In the Exhibition of the Royal Academy
of Arts, London, of the paintings and sculp-
tures over 1,900 in number, 242 are the works 
of women. It is only fifteen years,since women
artists were admitted to the Royal Academy.

	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe emphatically
denies the story which is circulating to the ef-
fect that she could never have written “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin” if she had known the colored
people as she knows them now; after a resi-
dence at the South.

	Lillian Whiting says “The time is almost
gone by for the discussion of whether women
want or do not want the ballot. They will
have it whether they desire it or not. And
the true wisdom is to study to find how to use


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPEECH OF THE GODDESS OF 
LIBERTY. 

		BY MISS EMMA JANE NIELD. 

	Ladies and Gentlemen: My first acknowledg-
ment must be to these kind young friends who
have honored me with this important position, 
and I desire to assure them that I appreciate
 highly this evidence of their friendship and
goodwill, and I trust that I may have the op-
portunity of proving my gratitude by laboring
for their advancement. I represent to-day
one of the fundamental principles and most
glorious truths ever established on earth. 
Liberty is the chief corner stone upon which
every nation rests, and when once assailed or
destroyed, the whole fabric will totter and fall. 
	Liberty! The word sounds as melodious
music in the ears of an oppressed people. Lib-
erty! eagerly cried the Israelitish slaves in 
Egypt; and a Moses came forth to deliver them. 
Liberty! cried the Jewish slaves in Babylon, 
and a Nehemiah arose to lead them back to 
their country. Liberty! exclaimed the op-
pressed Jews, and the tyrant Herod was de-
throned. Liberty! pleaded the soul-bound
Catholics of Germany, and a Luther boldly
defied the popish power and broke the bonds 
of superstition. Liberty! the over-taxed and 
down-trodden Protestants of England, a Crom-
well arose and the tyrant king was beheaded 
	Liberty! glorious liberty! for thee rivers of  
blood have flowed and millions of lives have
been sacrificed at thy shrine. 
	One hundred and ten years ago to-day a na
tion was born and the Goddess of Liberty was 
enthroned. The banner of Freedom was un-
furled in response to the appeal of patriotic
men whose hearts ached at the sufferings of 
the people under the galling yoke of despotism. 
	Patrick Henry echoed the sentiments of the
colonists when he exlaimed, "Give me liberty
or give me death!"
	The memorable document was signed. 
	The aged veteran in the steeple bared his
arm and caused the ringing peals of the bell
to speak to an excited and enthusiastic multi-
tude the death-knell of oppression and the
grand truth that the people were free. 
	We commemorate to-day that glorious even. 
To-day from the surging Atlantie to the placid
Pacific, from the snow-capped hills of the
Canadas, to the orange groves of the Floridas, 
the eloquence of America's orators is recount-
ing the Republic's glorious achievements and
her future destiny. 
	But here in Utah, the Goddess of Liberty
bows her head with humility and shame for
alas! her fair name is sullied and the flag of 
freedom trails in the dust. Religious liberty
has been taken from her people and while the
voices of America's freemen are heard from
the penitentiaries we mourn for our Nation's 
weal and our National honor.
	Columbia! thy prestige is departing, thy sun
is slowly setting. 
	Martyred Standing, Berry and Gibbs wi-
ness to thy degradation. 
	Imprisoned Snow, Clawson and others wit-
ness to thy dishonor. 
	The departed glory of Babylon, Greece and
Rome [---] t[-] thee beacon lights of warning
and if disregarded, thou also "will be
weighed in the balances and found wanting."
	Again we exclaim, "O say, does the star-
spangled banner still wave o'er the land of the 
free and the home of the brave?"
	But the glorious Republic shall yet be res-
cued from the power of the demagogue and
Utah's true-born sons shall raise aloft freedom's 
banner and proclaim true liberty and freedom
to her people. 
	Then will the goddess of Liberty reign su-
preme.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

BOX ELDER STAKE.

	The 29th quarterly conference of the Relief 
Societies of Box Elder Stake convened June 
the 8th 1886, in Brigham City. After the
opening exercises  minutes of the previous
Conference were read and accepted. 
	Prest. Harriet Snow expressed her pleasure 
in meeting so many in conference,exhorted the
sisters to be prayerful and press onward in the 
cause of truth, regretted the absence of sister 
Zina D. Young. 
	Counselor O. Widerborg knew that all felt
thankful for the privilege of meeting 
together in peace. Reported favorable of the
Scandinavian sisters. Felt a determination 
to live her religion. Prayed the Lord to bless 
all with understanding and strength to per-
form their duties. Sister Perry read a very
interesting vision. Sister Keller reported 
Mantua Ward, Sister Hubbard, Willard, 
Sister Albertson, Bear River City, Sister
Anderson, Third Ward, Brigham City, Sister 
Mary E. Snow, 2nd Ward, Brigham City, Sis-
ter Watkins 4th Ward Brigham City Sister
Perry Three Mile Creek. 
	Afternoon session: After singing and prayer, 
Counselor Susannah P. Booth addressed the
assembly: referred to the vision that had been
read and how strengthening such things were,
realized the great responsibilities resting upon
the Relief Society, we should be charitable
and assist the poor. Spoke of the duties of the
teachers. 
	Prest. Elmina S. Taylor thought the mem-
bers present, indicated that we were desirous
to do right.  Said we are all aiming at one
thing, "celestial glory;" we have no hopes in
any one else but God our Heavenly Father. 
There is yet much for us to endure before the
end comes, and all will be tried as keenly as
they can endure. Spoke of the beauty and
usefulness of these organizations, it draws us
together closer, we learn to know each other, 
to love each others good qualities, it brings out
the talents the Lord has given us and it has
in many cases been a source of comfort and 
consolation to sisters who have been down-cast
and afflicted. We should guard our tongues, 
guard ourselves in our daily lives. We should 
be honest, upright and pray continually for 
strength to be faithful. We should strive to
do some good deed every day, prayed the
choicest blessings of God on all present, that
all might prove faithful. 
	Supt. of the Y. L. M. I. A., Minnie J. Snow,
spoke on the responsibilities of mothers with
regard to the education of their daughters. 
	Sister Harding, Sister Wixom, Sister Owens
each made excellent remarks touching upon
various subjects and urging the sisters to keep
the commandments of God. 
	Prest. Harriet Snow said: we are in a school, 
we want to have wisdom to do right under all
circumstances. Gave excellent instructions
to the Presidents Counselors and teachers of
both the Relief Society and Young Ladies
Association. Said we want to cultivate a
spirit of discernment. 
	Conference adjourned for three months with
singing and benediction.
	E. D. M.


WOMEN'S WAGES IN AMERICA.

	The State of New York, following in the 
wake of Massachusetts, has commenced to
collect and publish annually a mass of valu-
able information respecting labor.  The prac-
tice of the Bureau is to make an investigation
of one or more special subjects within the scope
of its legal inquiry, and last year it took up
as a subject for investigation Working women:


their wages, and home condition.” Setting
out with the determination to take evidence
from none but representative manufacturers
and mechanics, the Commissioner has been
able to collect much trustworthy evidence, and
he gives elaborate tables bearing directly upon
the question of women’s wages. It appears
that for the making of clothing the following
prices are paid by a large representative firm:
Overcoat, 6s 2d; pea jacket, 3s 9d; cotton
trousers,1s; wollen trousers, 1s 6d; vests, ls 5d
to 1s 8d. At dressmaking wages are 4s 2d per
day; work from 8 a.m. till 6 p.m. Many
women, however, are employed in large stores,
who receive as much as from £3 10s to £8 per
week; but these, of course, are superintendents
or specially skillful workwomen. Many sew-
ing women told the Commissioner that by
piece-work they can make from 20s to 28s per
week. Ordinary wages for housework in pri-
vate families, are £2 10s per month; cham-
bermaids, £3; cooks, £3 10s to £7. It need
hardly be added that there are a great number 
of working women in these different occupa-
tions who earn less than the figures given
above; they represent the average.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. H. M. T. Cutler has just published a
book entitled “Phillipia.” It is an interesting
woman’s rights book.

	An old woman of threescore and three-
quarters, living in Centralia, Ill., has secured
the contract for carrying the mails from the
railroad station to the postoffice at five dollars
a month.
 
	Mrs. Gladstone attended a Liberal meeting
at Mile End, London, July 2nd. In response
to deafening applause she made a short speech
of thanks, and read a message from her hus-
band, wishing success to the Liberal candidate
for that district.

	A correspondent of the N. Y. Tribune says
that fourteen of the seventy-six U. S. Senators
chew tobacco, and fifty-eight use it in one form
or another. Also, that of the 325 members of
the House, only a few abstain wholly from to-
bacco. The senators who do not use it are
Aldrich, Blair, Colquit, Dawes, Dolph, Hoar,
Jones of Nevada, McMillan, Miller, Mitchell
of Oregon, Morgan, Pike, Plumb, Van Wyck,
Teller and Payne. To this list of members we
take the liberty to add the name of the Utah
Delegate, John T. Caine.

	Mrs. Gladstone encourages industry and
thrift among the cottagers around her, and
gives them personal assistance in the cultiva-
tion of trees and flowers. Among the charit-
able institutions founded by her is the Indus-
trial School for Boys at Clapham.  To one
whom she had helped and who wishes to do 
some service for her in return, Mrs. Gladstone
said: “Do something for somebody else. A 
kind word, a bit of practical advice, a helping
hand, even if there is not much in it, will al-
ways be doing something for me. And more
than that, my child, it will be doing something
for yourself and something for God.”


Patents have been granted, to women, during
the week ending June 29, 1886, as follows:

	Laura E. Crosby, Oakland City, Ind., Burg-
lar Alarm.
	
	Minnie Dobson, New York, N.Y., Banjo-
frame.
	Harriet H. Hoge, Butte City, Montana,
Machine for stitching and smoothing em-
broidered and other fabrica


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REMEMBRANCE.

Will my boy remember his mother,
	When, fresh in the dawning light, 
He springs from his bed of slumber,
	Prepared for the brief day’s flight?
Will he think of the morning greeting,
	The smile, the blessing, the kiss,
The happy home-talk and the children—
	Will he think of them only to miss?

Will my boy remember his mother,
	When gone to his school or his play,
When, over his bright head is flitting
	The hours of youth's happy day?
Will he think of the rides we have taken
	Through meadow and field all alone,
Our quiet talk, drifting from flowers
	Up even to God’s holy throne?

Will my boy remember his mother,
	When down the orb of the day,
Soft twilight is drawing her eyelids
	And folding her labors away,
Will he think of the romps in the garden,
	The swing ’neath the old apple tree,
Will he think of the prayers he has offered
	So oft at his fond mother's knee?

Will my boy remember his mother,
	When into his youthful ears
Is poured the soft voice of the tempter—
	Will he then remember her tears
When invited to smoke or drink liquor,
	Or passing some bright gambling den,
And companions persuade him to enter,
	Will my darling remember me then?

Oh, let him forget me at evening,
	Or during the day’s busy hours,
While reading, or romping, or singing,
	Or riding ’neath sweet country bowers,
Forget me in joy or in sorrow,
	But always remember me when
Assailed by the pleadings of Satan,
	My darling, remember me then!
							HOMESPUN.
[handwritten text on the right side] Susan J. Gates


[Column 1]
SOME SUGGESTIVE THOUGHTS.

A YOUNG MISSIONARY'S REPLY TO A LETTER.

	"I shall undertake to reply first to that por-
tion of your letter which struck me most
forcibly; namely, regarding your becoming a
Sister of Mercy. Will you explain why it is
necessary for you to join this order to do good!
You say you believe any belief pleasing to
God if it be but sincere. Had you studied
the Bible, which is the accepted word of God
among civilized people, you never would have
intimated that sincerity of worship is all that
God desires, and no sane Bible believer dare
advance such a theory. The Bible declares
that "God is a spirit, and they, that worship 
Him must worship Him in spirit, that is, in
sincerity and in truth." Your good sense will
tell you that, as all professed Christian denomi-
nations differ in their views regarding the wor-
ship of God, they must all be wrong in some
particular (all save one at any rate), and in
being wrong they do not meet the Bible de-
mand for worship—to worship God in truth;
and if the Bible is true, it is fully as essential
to worship in truth as in sincerity. Admitting,
however, for argument sake, that you are right,
and that earnestness of purpose is all that is
necessary. why then is it essential for
you to join a Catholic institution in order
to serve God in the way you mention? Cannot
you be sincere without becoming a Catholic?
Cannot you be merciful without taking the
vows of a Sister of Mercy. Cannot you have
a fixed purpose without thus binding yourself
for life? No Catholic will ever tell you that to
be sincere is all that is essential to well-doing
in the sight of God. They understand clearly,
however far we may think them astray in
other respects, that sincerity, to be effective,
must be associated with truth. Should you
put your idea into execution, admitting that
all else were congenial and satisfactory, to my

[Column 2]
mind would only be limiting your power to do
good, for your work, as a Sister of Mercy in 
the Catholic Church, would be almost, if not
entirely, confined to those of the Catholic
faith, and you declare you have no choice in
regard to forms of worship. You may enter-
tain the idea that the vow could be kept the
easier by associating yourself with this order.
It may be true, but I see no good reason why
it should be so. The vow is made to God, if
made at all. It is between Him and the maker,
and not between the Catholic Church and the
one who offers it; and it is God who sustains
those that seek to serve Him, not those of a
given faith or of our own way of thinking.
My earnest, my most earnest advice is that you
will take no step which (if you should change
 your mind later) may deprive you of your
freedom of action, or give you cause for regret
in after years. I can tell you, there are far
greater and more important commandments
than that of perpetual maidenhood, or being
merciful in a given line. Those who join this
society never know the glory of womanhood,
and they place themselves in a position which
prevents them from fulfilling the first and 
greatest commandment. Not every woman
can be a Florence Nightingale, nor a Grace
Darling; but the world is full of golden oppor-
tunities for the exercise of genuine Christian
and true womanly virtues, and as a rule women
do not need to leave their homes to find abun-
dant opportunities for the exercise of all the
virtues with which they are blessed. I have
no word to speak against the women who nobly
sacrifice their lives in the desire to assuage the
miseries of their fellow creatures, but I cannot
avoid the belief that they have made a mistake
as to the best manner of accomplishing this
result, when they join such orders; and the ex-
ception is rare where they could not have done
better had they left themselves free. It is said
of John Howard, that he probably assuaged
more human misery than any mere man that
ever lived, and yet he belonged to no organiza-
tion that I have heard of. A broad humanity
and a boundless sympathy for the suffering and
misery of his fellows, led him to devote a life
—and a noble life it was—to the mitigation of
prison horros and to alleviating suffering
caused by the dreadful ravages of pestilential
diseases. He was sustained by an unfaltering
trust in God, and it is not known that it took
any special vows or oaths on his part to make 
him the most successful worker among his fel-
lows in recent times. I have yet to learn that 
the good accomplished by Nightingale, Darling,
and the host of women whose names are bright
and glowing spots in the histories of all times,
was due to any vows they made, save to God
alone, or to their association with others for a 
given purpose. Not by any means that organiza-
tion is not valuable and effective—but that
the good you or any other individual may do,
is the result of a personal determination, aided
by a divine power, which flows from the al-
wise and infinitely powerful Creator, and not
from any special organization.
	The sphere of woman is boundless, and it is
always where she herself may be. The soul
of a true woman is like the sweet perfume of
a flower. We do not see the odor; it is voice-
less, and yet if we but come within the circle
of its unseen power, its pervading and persua-
sive perfume gladdens the heart, and as we
drink it in, there is insensibly awakened a ris-
ing pulse of thanksgiving; and a broader, a 
truer and a deeper love for the human race is
its offspring. It is exactly so with the invisible
influence of a good and a pure woman, and
she leaves an elevating and ennobling impres-
sion upon all who come within the radius of
her subtle power. This is the perfume of her
soul. But this takes time. It is not the 
flower of a moment—not the product of a 
good, but fleeting resolve - it is a plant of slow
growth. This power is the result of patient

[Column 3]
and untiring cultivation—and this cultivation
always begins at home. It is idle for you to
talk of sacrificing a young, lovely, and what
might be a life full of grace and of noble ex-
ample, when you are unable to deny yourself
the trifling follies which are so common to
those of your years. The idea is preposterous.
There are still deeper reasons why you should
abandon the idea, if you really entertain it,
but as these are purely of a religious nature,
and you will not care to go into such a sub-
ject. I need not refer to them.
	There is, however, a very serious subject in
your letter to which I do wish to refer—your
complaint of constant unrest. Do you not
understand that there can be for none of us
rest this side the grave, whatever may be
in store for us on the other side? Yours is a 
very common distress among young people of
both sexes, and the advice is equally applicable
to all. It is not rest that you need, it is occu-
pation. You would not feel that eternal long-
ing, that craving for an indefinite something,
which you attempt to call rest, if you only
had some good, wholesome employment. The
true woman learns early that life is not given
for rest, nor for the gratification of personal
desires. Its purpose is infinitely nobler and
grander—it is to do something for the good of
others, that we may thereby be blest ourselves.
A wise woman also understands that happiness
comes from within and not from without. And
there can be no happiness where there is no
consciousness that we have been the means of
blessing others. Her own heart is a woman's 
well-spring of joy, and when that heart teaches
her she has done her duty well, then, and
only then, is she truly happy. The conscious-
ness of duty, well performed, is a spring of
perennial freshness, and its store of the waters
of joy increases with the growing hours. If
you do just as you should do at home; if you
make those about you happier than they were,
have you not done something worth accom-
plishing? And it is not so hard a task when
we look at it fairly. Would you not be hap-
per for it? How can we expect to have the 
great patience with strangers which mercy de-
mands when we have neither the heart nor the
patience to strive to make our acquaintances,
and those who should be still dearer, happy?
How can we expect rest, or peace, or satisfac-
tion for the longings of the heart, when there
is an ever present consciousness—vague though
it may be—that golden opportunities are flying
past untouched, that the duty of the hour is
not even attempted? Charity and mercy truly
should begin at home. Were all women merci-
ful and charitable at home and among their
friends—working in quiet, undemonstrative
ways, yet with unshaken purpose—I am in-
clined to believe there would be little need for
such organizations as Sisters of Mercy or of
Charity. Cannot you find plenty to do among
those you know? We crave too much for the
applause of mankind, and not enough for the
approbation of a pure and earnest heart. We
are not satisfied with the quiet, the tender, the
modest wreath which adorns the brow of the
patient and cheerful worker at home; but if we
could taste the rapture such feel in being
decked with this simple emblem, if we only
knew the joy of a woman in the pure and con-
fiding smile she herself has made to light up
the face of another, we would envy her, I am
sure. It is to her what sunlight is to the bird,
water to the parched ground, what the smile
of this fair world is to one who has been bereft
of sight. If we labor for such a reward, the
rest we need is assured. This is "Heartsease"—
a flower that blooms, nowhere but in the con-
genial soil of duty, warmed by affection, and its
perfume is the only happiness we can know. It
is the joy within—the joy of an approving heart,
to which riches and power can add nothing, and
which neither poverty nor the frowns of the
haughty can diminish."	R. W. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JULY 15, 1886.


[Column 1]
MRS. NEWMAN'S PETITION
CRITICISED. 
	The readers of the EXPONENT will see that 
several pages are filled with Mrs. Angie F. New-
man’s petition to Congress, in which she makes a
specialty of abusing and traducing the “Mor-
mons.” One wonders what claims the Gentiles of
Utah could make upon the government if they had
not this adverse “Mormon” material, which they
manufacture wholesale, to use,to turn the scale in 
their favor. But no cause can stand long or be
permanently successful which is propped up with
falsehood. Every person who reads Mrs. New-
man’s petition can see how false is the ground she
takes, and her reasoning is all from false premises. 
She wants Congress to believe she knows “Mor-
mon” women and their needs better than they do
themselves. She speaks of her knowledge of fe-
male suffrage in Utah, when it is well known she
lives in Nebraska, and most of her knowledge is
second hand, and gained from such authority as
Mrs. Paddock’s and Mrs. Froiseth’s sensational 
novels and the works written by apostates. It is 
idle for such people to talk of what the women of
Utah ought, or ought not to have; the women of
Utah are the best judges for themselves on their
own subject, and being free agents, and also large-
ly native-born American citizens known something
about the privileges they are entitled to, and, hav-
ing rightful possession of the ballot are prepared
to protest emphatically against disfranchisement, 
and indignantly against the interference of Mrs. 
Newman and her clique, who make capital in
Washington by their malicious and cruel attacks
upon “Mormons” and their institutions. 
	Possibly if Mrs. Newman had crossed the plains
in ox teams, and toiled and suffered privation, 
hunger and hardship such as many hundreds of
“Mormon” women have, she might set up a claim
in Congress on her own account; but to go there
and speak of the stronghold of Churches and
ecclesiastical governments is something more than
absurd in women, who are collecting funds under
false pretences to bolster up a Church whose re-
sources are failing to supply the demand and fur-
nish salaries for ministers and teachers. There
can be no objection to appropriations by Congress
to assist in building “Industrial Homes,” but the
“Mormon” women do object to begging on their
account. They are abundantly able to plead their
own cause before Congress, if it were necessary, 
and they would not need to go there and abuse
“Gentile” women to get a hearing. The entangle-
ments  and  environments  of  the Mormon
Church which Mrs. Newman refers  to
are all a MYTH, and if any doubt exists 
in the minds of members of Congress, there is 
abundant testimony to repudiate her statements. 
There are not women enough here to fill the situa-
tions already open to them, and as to the capabili-
ties and the efficiency of domestic help, let one 
sit and listen to the conversation of the women of
the East about help, and one need not be long in 
concluding that “Industrial Training Schools”are

[Column 2] 
needed there. If Mrs. Newman thinks that the
young girls who leave England, Scandinavia, Ger-
many or Switzerland, for the sake of gathering to
Zion, will fall into the snare she has laid to decoy 
them from the truth of the Gospel she is vainly
deceiving herself. 
	The Methodists who are asking for this appro-
priation  have been here in Utah for years,
and have established schools here, and employed
teachers to fill these positions, and held out in-
ducements to the children of the Latter-day Saints
to come to them and so on, and how many have
they succeeded in getting? Here and there one 
or two or three children of some one who had 
either lost the faith or never had any to lose. 
There are district schools in Utah, and no need 
whatever for the people of the East to be taxed to 
educate the children of either “Mormons” or
Gentiles in Utah. 
	But it is useless to waste words on Mrs. New-
man’s petition, because it is so flimsy, b[--]ng utter-
ly erroneous; there is scarcely a thread of truth 
to hold the whole thin spun fabric together. She
talks of the nineteen wives of Brigham Young,
and then his spiritual wives and his daughters, as
though this had anything to do with her getting
an appropriation, or with the misuse of woman’s
suffrage. No woman could vote who was not a
citizen in her own right, either natural born or
legally married to a natural born or naturalized
citizen, and it was quite a common occurrence for 
women to be naturalized as well as men. 
	The polished shafts of Error may strike at
Truth in the most skillful manner and with
venomed darts may even pierce and wound her, 
but they will be broken, and though she be
stamped upon, she cannot be stamped out, and
Truth will triumph in the contest, though the vic-
tory be hard won. Falsehood may flourish and
its victims may suffer persecution in consequence,
but eternal principles must stand, and those who
proclaim them know, that
	 “Who speaks the Truth stabs Falsehood to the heart.”
		To be Continued.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE have on hand minutes of the Woman’s
Conference of Tooele, Utah, Maricopa and Salt
Lake Stake, but on account of publishing Mrs.
Newman’s petition we had not space for them in.
this issue.

	WE find it impossible to more than touch upon
Mrs. Newman’s petition to Congress. The con-
tradictions to her mis-statements and errors will
furnish material for articles from the pens of many
of the sisters as well as more editorial matter.

	THE August election draws near, and we trust
women voters will not be remiss in casting in their
ballots, but practically demonstrate their apprecia-
tion of the franchise, and not only by voting on
election day, but by attending their Primaries in
their respective localities.

	CORRECTIONS: In the article “In Memoriam,”
where it reads Benediction by Bishop Atwood it
should be Bishop Clawson. In alluding to the
parents as Abraham and Betsy Wells, read Ab-
salom and Betsy Free; and in Original Recipes,
read ounces, instead of dozens, for all spices
mentioned. In the article “Princess Street Edin-
burgh”, for dock, read loch.

	ENCYCLOPEDIA: The American Encyclopedia
of Practical Knowledge illustrated is being can-
vassed for in Utah Territory. H.S.Reeves is agent
for it,and it seems likely to become very popular,
and, judging from its contents, it cannot fail to be
useful in the family and home. It is particularly
well adapted to farmers, to stock raisers and all 
that class of people. It contains general and


definite information on building houses, barns and
cellars, and in reference to the treatment of all do-
mestic animals, also fish and fowls, trees, grafting,
fruits, also forests, and on the subject of grain.
The information is quite varied and elaborate.
Many other subjects, and in fact, it would seem
all connected with the ordinary vocations of life
in America are treated upon and classified in such
a way that any person can turn to the page readily,
and at any time or in any emergency get reliable
authority to act upon. It is certainly a valuable
work to put into the hands of the people, and can-
not fail, we think, to give satisfaction. Such a
book must be of great benefit to people living in
isolated places where advice is not so easily ob-
tained at a moment's notice. In examining the
work there seems nothing lacking to make it com-
plete in every particular pertaining to every day
life and in practical experience, so far as book
knowledge will help one's efforts and energies.


IN EXPLANATION.

MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Knowing they are not designed for publication, 
I take the responsibility of complying with your
request, and send you for the EXPONENT a copy 
of one of a series of descriptive letters addressed 
to his family by my brother in the  Utah Peni-
tentiary.  Without the preceding one, of which 
I have not the copy, the opening of this letter 
seems abrupt.  The style adopted is amusing. 
							E. R. S. S. 
	   ONE OF A SERIES OF LETTES.
	   UTAH PENITENTIARY, May 13, 1886.

TO MY FAMILY:
	Having now washed and arranged our toilets 
according to our tastes and abilities, we wait
breakfast, our anxieties graded by the relative 
demands of our appetites.  The event watched 
for, at length, is announced, when, as though by 
magic, one hundred and fifty occupants, young
and old of various nationalities, pour from their
sleeping tenements, marshall  instantly into two 
columns converging at a point adjoining the Din-
ing Hall entrance. 
	We describe the scene as now it probably
would appear to an observer.  It will be seen that 
this Picture possesses many phases oddly made 
up of strange mixtures of things, quite opposite
in their natures, which viewed as a whole, are
singularly striking, and on account of its peculiari-
ties has attracted the attention of many persons
in quest of originalities, or such as minister to a 
lively imagination or to supply material for philo-
sophical,  moral,   or   religious   contemplation.
Therefore it is not uncommon on these occasions,
to notice crowds of enthusiasts posted upon the 
walls surrounding our Establishment, gazing down
upon our dual ranks, displaying in their varying 
countenances a curious combination of emotion
and sentiment such as astonishment, sympathy, ad-
miration, sorrow, profound respect, risibility, etc.,
etc.
	The first aspect which strikes the beholder, is 
the ineffectual struggle to assume a correct, mili-
tary attitude, the failure of which unfortunately 
shows that  the  manoeuvre has resulted in 
the   formation   of   an   awkward  squad;
doubtless  awakening  feelings  of  the  ludic-
rous.  Many,  far   the   greater  number of 
these files are noticed as possessing intelligent
and attractive countenances, indicating a high
state of intellectual, moral and religious culture,
impressing the observer with feelings of interest, 
and sentiments of profound respect. Another 
curious feature in this Exhibit, appears in the
grotesque colors aud arrangement of our costumes,
consisting of two broad rings artistically arranged 
so they run horizontally around pants vests, and 
sacque coat, at equal distances from one another


The one ring, a coal glossy black the other a 
pure snowy white following each other alternate-
ly as before described.
     When the eye of a visitor catches this grotesque
point in the scene, and we notice the effects, hav-
ing long cultivated the feeling of forgiveness, we
pardon his ill breeding, and wretched lack of
ettiquette, when discovering him in convulsions
of laughter.
     Another distinguished feature (this I have a 
a pride in mentioning) is, the peculiar air of dig-
nity, stately, noble bearing, and majestic mien of
the greater portion of this body of men, apparent-
ly born to lead and control.
     Well, having said so much, we are now pre-
pared to march our serpentine columns, not to the
gory field of conflict to cut the enemy to pieces,
but into a Dining Hall to attack and consume the
refreshments gratiutously furnished.
     The tables are primitive in make, and seem-
ingly very antique, and benches for seats may be
described in the same words.  Tin plates, tin-
cups, and spoons constitute the furniture of the
tables, apparently of ancient manufacture as
though they might have been employed, perhaps,
in the service of the Antideluvians.  Knives and
forks do not appear in this quarter, except in a 
few solitary instances where they are found com-
bined in the reduced form of pocket knives.
     Coffee, meat, potatoes and bread, all in gener-
ous quantities, grace the tables at our morning
refreshments.  At noonday, meat and bread, and
a light soup occasionally.  Supper is made up of
tea and bread.
     Strange though it may appear, yet facts show
that many of our Gentlemen postively fatten, and
some even achieve corpulency on this simple and
primitive diet.  Of course, to be successful in
such attainments of our physical condition and
generous proportions, as a rule, one must possess
a healthy constitution with a naturally aggressive
appetite, combined with a clear conscience.
     Speaking of myself as I aspire but to the main-
tenance of the latter quality, therefore when I
emerge hence, my present figure, I fancy, will not
have assumed those physical distinctions-
   Every Sabbath religious services are held in
the dining hall, by Clergymen of various sects in
the city, each in their turn.  We have a magnifi-
cent Choir made up of Convicts who assist at these
services, except at the "Mormon" meetings which
are served by invited singers.  The Chorister is
a "Mormon" convicted of cohabitation, the or-
ganist, a non-"Mormon" for some crime or misde-
meanor; others for various crimes.  Notwithstand-
ing this seemingly drawback of respectability, its 
a splendid choir, discoursing, spirited and charm-
ing music, all too, in an artistical style almost
above criticism.
     It is curious though, and highly amusing, to see
this prison Choir, their heads and faces clean 
shaven, their grotesque costumes, attired as per-
formers at a Circus, or actors in a comic scene,
earnestly engaged as important factors in these
solemn and Divine ceremonies.
     At first thought, on taking in this scene, one is
liable to be led to the ridiculous belief that the
Stage and Pulpit, at last having harmonized their
differences, have met and embraced, each in its
own way and style, the one, in its habiliments of
mournfulness and deepest feelings of piety and
solemnity, the other in its fanciful, burlesque cos-
tume, and frolicsome and frisky mood.  The mis-
take however is a bad one, and easily corrected
by observing the appearance, and character of the
audience, one third of which are noticed as "Mor-
mons" convicted of living with their wives, the
balance serving sentence for various crimes and
misdemeanors all wearing the garb of convicts;
these services being designed to reform, and make
them consistent and better Christians.
						LORENZO SNOW.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


OUT IN THE COUNTRY.

DEAR AUNT EM:
I have just been watching a glorious sunrise.
Some rather heavy, dark clouds looming up in
the north west and east, seemed to tip a little to
the right, as if on purpose to show us their "silver
linings" which were indeed beautiful.
	The scene reminded me of the clouds still
hovering over our people; and I felt comforted
in thinking that according with the morning pros-
pect in our political horizon, "behind the clouds
is the sun still shining," whether its ways are ap-
parent to mortal eyes or not.  The clouds parted
while I watched, and grew thinner and paler as
they drifted away, which I took as a good omen.
	This little settlement is established in one of
the cosy nooks in the tops of the mountains.
We have been here for more than two weeks, and,
in many respects, have greatly enjoyed our visit.
	I have attended fast meeting, Relief Society
meeting and the Sunday services; have been to
an old-fashioned quilting, and out visiting three
afternoons; and withal have found that the most
friendly feelings exist, so far as I am able to
judge, between all the families of the neighbor-
hood.  Not a sentence of backbiting, or even
gossipy rumor have I heard uttered.  Every one
seems to understand his or her own business, and
to have nothing to do but attend to it.  In this,
as also in some other respects, many of our older
and larger settlements might pattern after this
one with profit.  Another excellent item is, the
Word of Wisdom seems to be very generally ob-
served here, which renders a more agreeable at-
mosphere than is usually found in this wonderful
age of civilization and reform.  Only think of
passing a whole fortnight without once being
nauseated by disgusting tobacco fumes.  Such has
been my happy lot; and in this regard, it would
be my choice to dwell in such a locality as this
forever.
	Bishop George Coleman and his wife, Sister
Jane, seem to be especially adapted to lead in
this little community; and in all things, both of a
spiritual and temporal nature, mutual improvement
is the order of the day.
	The Bishop and his family being old and valued
friends of ours, we naturally feel quite at home
in the ward.
	This small neat valley is almost entirely sur-
rounded by high hills or low mountains; the
scenery is picturesque, a blending of loveliness
and grandeur.
	The people talk of having a "Twenty-fourth of
July celebration." If they do, it will likely be
quite an interesting occasion, as the union which
exists here, is sure to make almost any movement
successful.  Next Saturday and Sunday a con-
ference is to be held at Fish Lake.  Some of the
folks are going from this place, but we are not.
	We begin to talk of starting home, but are un-
decided how soon we shall do so.  You may hear
from me again before I see you, but for the present
accept love and adieus.
								LULA.


SENSIBLE IDEAS. 

EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	Having a little leisure time I thought I would
address a few lines to the EXPONENT. We have
a Relief Society organized here, presided over by
Sister Hannah LeFevre, and though few in num-
bers, we consider it a pleasure as well as a duty
to meet together in the interest of Woman’s rights
and privileges, to exchange ideas and sentiments,
and thus cultivate our minds and enlarge our
abilities. We are somewhat isolated consequent-
ly are deprived of many associations, and instruc-
tions enjoyed by those more favorably situated.
We take the EXPONENT and learn from it, the


spirit of the times, and the advancement of 
woman, and are deeply interested in the instruc-
tion it  contains.  On the 4th of June we were
favored with a visit from President Crosby and
wife, Sister Myers and Sister Clarke of Panguitch 
in the interest of the Relief Society, which we
very much appreciated. 
	We held a meeting and received valuable in-
struction and felt encouraged to fulfill our duties
better in the future.  We have been rather dilatory
in the past.  We labor under disadvantages main-
ly arising from the distance we live apart.  The
majority of us have large families and the con-
sequent duties engross the most of our time, hav-
ing our clothing neat but plain, our food simple 
but wholesome, and appetizing, we would be en-
abled to spare a little time in which to devote to
intellectual pleasures it is necessary that we read
good books and periodicals in order that we keep
pace with the times in which we live, and by so
doing it will implant in our hearts a higher stand-
ard of life, and furnish food for pleasant thoughts
and we will go to our labors feeling rested and re-
freshed; and it will create a desire for that which 
is beautifying and ennobling.  I think we were
created for a nobler purpose than spending our
entire time in common drudgery.  I do not pro-
pose to neglect home comforts, but on the con-
trary consider home should be made the most at-
tractive place for children and parents, but, at the
same time, think our whole duty is not fulfilled it
we do not cultivate our intelligence and become fa-
miliar with the current events of the day, and
learn what is going on in the great world around
us.  It will give children a higher estimate of pa-
rents, consequently they will have more influence 
over them.  Wishing you every success in the
work in which you are engaged, I remain, 
			Yours respectfully. 
		 				SUSIE TEBBS, 
				Secretary of Relief Society.
   Tebbsdale, Utah, July 1st, 1886.


THE POET.

		BY IDA A. AHLBORN.

He was haunted night and day
	By a spirit clad in white,
That no exorcist could lay.

So he wrote a magic rhyme,
	Gave the subtle spirit form,
Sent it forth to war with Time.

He is freed, but this is done.
	Now the spirit in the song 
Haunts a thousand for the one.
						—Traveller.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Every one has a cure for sore throat, but simple remedies
appear to be most effectual.  A gargle of salt and water
is used by many, but a little alum and honey dissolved in
sage tea is better.  Cloths wrung out of hot water and
applied to the neck, changing as often as they begin to
cool, have potency for removing inflamation more than
anything we have ever tried.  This should be kept up for a
number of hours; during the evening is usually the most
convenient time for applying the remedy. 

   Ice Cream.—Dissolve five teaspoonfuls of corn starch or
arrowroot in a teacupful of milk.  Add to it the whites of
three eggs well frothed, and the yelk of one well beaten.
Sweeten with loaf sugar, and boil half a gallon of new milk.
As soon as it begins to boil, pour it in small quantities over
the mixture of eggs and starch until about half the milk is
taken from the kettle.  Then pour all back into the kettle,
and stir it a few minutes.  After it cools, add one quart of
rich cream; flavor to your taste, and freeze the cream.


Mrs. Garfield is said to be worth between
$300,000 and $400,000.  Her income is esti-
mated at $20,000 a year.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

	Mr. Edmunds presented the following peti-
tion of Mrs. Angie F. Newman:

To the honorable the Senate and House of Rep-
	resentatives of the Forty-ninth Congress:

	GENTLEMEN: The undersigned respectfully
represents that on the 6th of March, 1886, 2,-
000 Mormon women assembled in mass meeting
in Salt Lake City to protest against the inva-
sion of their rights by Federal interference.
The spirit of protest crystalized in the appoint-
ment of a committee to memorialize the Presi-
dent and Congress of the United States in the
form of a "Declaration of grievances" of the
people of Utah.
	Said committee drafted the memorial, pro-
ceeded to Washington. and presented it to the
national Congress.
	It has been read in your hearing.
	The following preamble and resolutions are
embodied therein: 
	Whereas, the rights and liberties of women are placed
in jeopardy by the present cruel and inhuman proceedings
in the Utah courts, and in the contemplated measure in
Congress to deprive the women voters in Utah of the elec-
tive franchise: Therefore, be it
	Resolved by the women of Utah in mass meeting assem-
bled, That the suffrage originally conferred upon us as a 
political privilege has become a vested right by possession
and usage for fifteen years, and that we protest against be-
ing deprived of that right without process of law, and for
no other reason  than that we do not vote to suit our politi-
cal opponents.

	These resolutions are the expression of Mor-
mon sentiment.
	There are Gentile women in Utah Territory.
On this basis of civil equality their "protest"
should have equal consideration from your
honorable body.
	As an eye witness of the ceremonies at the
Theatre meeting; as a long and close observer
of the effect of female suffrage in Utah; having
definite personal knowledge of the Gentile
sentiment touching this question; as a member
of the committee who drafted and circulated
the petitions (mentioned in the following) ask-
ing the repeal of the act conferring the elective
franchise upon the women of Utah, the under-
signed, in defense of the great principles of
civil equity, respectfully submits the following
memorial, asking the passage of section 7 of the
Edmunds bill, now pending in the national
Congress.
	All law, human or divine, is the exponent
of sovereignty.
	The duty of individual or national recog-
nition of or obedience to law is measured by
the nature of that sovereignty.
	Divine law is unconditional. From it there
is no appeal.
	Human law may be only a synonym of des-
potism; the arbitrary edicts of rulers the very
antonyms of justice. The very elements of
revolution sometimes inhere in civil enact-
ments.
	Under a republican form of government the
people are the sovereignty. When, therefore,
the will of the people crystallizes at the bal-
lot box its mandate is supreme.
	Liberty's urn is a safe repository of law.
	Section 7 of the Edmunds bill, now in the 
hands of the House Judiciary, Committee
reads:

	It shall not be lawful for any female to vote at any elec-
tion hereafter held in the Territory of Utah for any public
purpose whatsoever, and no such vote shall be received or
counted or given effect, and any and every act of the 
governor and legislative assembly of the Territory of Utah
providing for or allowing the registration or voting by fe-
males is hereby annulled.

	This attempt to repeal the Territorial act
which confers the franchise upon the women
of the Territory of Utah has been interpreted

[Column 2]
by its opponents as a subversion of the great
principles of civil equality—as retrogresion
in politics—as formulating civil disabilities on
the basis of religious belief.
	This construction, however, is a perversion
of facts, and can only be entertained by those
who have studied the problem outside the
Territory. The test of given principles, under
a disparity of conditions, must yield unex-
pected results. The civil polity of Utah Terri-
tory is unrepublican. It was framed by a 
people anti-American in sentiment and hostile
in purpose;a people unfamiliar with the genius,
of republican institutions; fresh from the des-
potisms of the Old World; saturated with its
spirit; whose initial and final intent is the es-
tablishment of a theocracy within the Repub-
lic; who, claiming its immunities while ignor-
ing its supremacy, borrow only so much of
its constitutional forms as best conserve their
independence; who locating the "kingdom to
come" in the fastnesses of the mountains, ce-
ment its foundation stones with an ecclesias-
ticism unknown in the annals of history.
Thrones and shrines were builded, crowns worn,
and oblations offered, ere the eye of the nation
caught the smoke of its incense. 
	Railroads are great civilizers. The snort of
the engine is the bugle note of progress. In
1869 the Union Pacific laid its last cable.
The tramp of the on-coming millions began
to echo along the canyons. A new civllization
began to creep into the valleys. The Moun-
tains of Utah, with their threads of silver
and dust of gold, called with a hundred
tongues "Come," and they came—loyal men,
men fresh from the victory of battle, from the
sacred atmosphere of Christian homes. They
came to stay.
	The pulse of national life began to be felt
in Zion. The hierarchy must resist its throb.
The national Government had blundered in
making its chief governor of the Territory, a 
man whose dictum in civil or ecclesiasti-
cal circles was absolute, whose slightest com-
mand was emphasized by a "Thus saith the
Lord" With intuitions which amounted to
prescience, this dictator foreshadowed the dis-
solution of church rule in civil administration
through the influx of Gentile residents and
the ballot in the hands of American citizens.
Diplomatic in action, resourceful in methods,
holding the keys of power, spiritual and tem-
poral, this magnetic brain evolved defensive
measures which were executed with celerity
and precision.
	The most audacious of these measures was
the proscription placed upon the mining inter-
ests. As often as the Gentiles opened the
mines, as often as Brigham Young went out
with a band of benighted dupes, and
under the light of the stars closed the mines
with imposing ceremonies and pronounced ana-
themas upon the adventurers. This failing, the
"shot-gun policy" was adopted. The com-
manding general at Fort Douglas was obliged 
to detail soldiers to protect the men engaged
in working the mines, for several successive
seasons. Still the miners multiplied.
	In October, 1869, Mr. E. L. T. Harrison, edi-
tor of the Utah (Mormon) Magazine, ventured
to publish an article advocating the mining in-
terests. Immediately the recalcitrant editor,
together with the publisher, Mr. W. S. Godbe,
who had endorsed the article, were summoned
before the high council to answer for violation
of the decrees of the infallible priesthood
George Q. Cannon conducted the trial. To
the test questions, "Do you believe President
Young has the right to dictate to you in all
things, temporal and spiritual?" a negative an-
swer was returned, for which both gentlemen
were excommunicated from the church. By
virtue of the same high authority the legisla-
ture passed laws taxing heavily the products
of the miners. Nothing daunted, capitalists

[Column 3]
and prospectors multiplied. The wily de-
ceiver then evoluted from his narrow soul the
magnanimous scheme of enfranchising the
women. The Mormon legislature passed the
bill. The Gentile miners were mostly un-
married men, or had left their families in the
East. Every Mormon citizen thus had
his civil power extended in correspondence
with his numerous alliances.
	Thus a man with half a dozen wives would
now have half a dozen votes besides his own.
"Brigham Young would have nineteen for his
nineteen wives, to say nothing of his daughters,
and the whole army of spiritual wives he might
produce."
	To the intelligent discussion of the justice
of this franchise it is necessary (1) to examine
the statute on which it is based: (2) to enquire
who were the law-making power; (3) to 
determine if statute itself is in harmony with
organic law.
	The act conferring upon women the elective
franchise, approved February 12, 1870, reads:

	Every woman of the age of twenty-one years, who has
resided in this Territory six months next preceding any
general or special election, born or naturalized in the United 
States, or who is the wife, widow, or the daughter of a
native-born or naturalized citizen of the United States,
shall be entitled to vote at any election in this Territory.

	Class legislation is hereby established, the
fundamental principle of republicanism vio-
lated, and the statute thereby made void.
	The qualifications of the male voter as fixed
by the Territorial legislature are as follows:
	First. If native born, he shall be six
months resident in the Territory. If foreign
born, he shall be a naturalized citizen, five
years resident in the country. He shall be
twenty-one years of age. He shall be a tax-
payer.
	No qualifications are defined for the female
voter except such as are overruled by the dis-
junctive "or"—"or who is the wife, widow, or 
daughter of a native-born or naturalized
citizen."
	It would puzzle an astute registrar of elec-
tions to discover who is thereby debarred the
exercise of the franchise.
	The woman or girl who is not the wife,
widow, or daughter of somebody might justly
be denominated "anomalous."  The naturali-
 zation provision was of no weight, as proven
in the immediate results which followed the
passage of the Edmunds bill. Under its regis-
tration clause aliens are required to produce
their papers of citizenship. In the two weeks,
preceding the first election thereafter, two
thousand (2,000)aliens most of whom had
habitually voted their wives and daughters as
well, were naturalized in the two district courts
of Ogden and Salt Lake City. The inequali-
ty of the statute and its license of power is
seen in its application to emigrants. The
trains freighted with recruits for Zion, which
arrived a day or two preceding elections, were
met at the depot by church officials. The
emigrants were taken to the tithing head-
quarters. Women and girls were then and
there selected by aspirants for sealing orders,
taken to the endowment house, and the mar-
riage ceremony performed. On the morrow
these wives of "native-born or naturalized
citizens," wholly ignorant of our language or
laws, or the significance of the franchise, with
the odor of the emigrant ship [-]till upon their
clothing, were full-fleged voters, and deposited
their ballots in full conformity with the statu-
tory requirements. Furthermore, the commit-
tees of the Emigration Fund Company desig-
nated the localities where newcomers should
find homes.
	In case of a doubtful election at a given
point, re-enforcements were dispatched thither
from the new colony. Mrs. Fanny Stenhouse, who
is the most gifted woman over identified with the


[Column 1]
Mormon church, whose statements are as re-
liable as truth itself, enunciates the spirit of 
this franchise act in these words: 
	I have often seen one solitary man driving into the city
a whole wagon load of women of all ages and sizes. They 
were going to the polls and their vote would be one. 
Many have voted two or three times. Men christened
their mules, conferring upon them the names of men, and
made them vote also. 
	"Again and again has it been charged in the
public prints of Utah, by eye witnesses, and 
unrefuted by the Mormon church, that the
genealogies of the dead, the unborn, and the
deceased had been represented at the ballot-
box. 
	"It is easy to see," says Mrs. Stenhouse, (by these meth-ods) "how the influence of the priesthood has been exerted
and the women themselves have been made the instruments
for riveting still more firmly their own fetters." 
	Judge Emerson, of Utah, in 1882, in a test
case said: 
	All regulations upon the subject (elective franchise) must
be uniforn and impartial. Any provisions which should
impose upon a particular class of citizens conditions and
requirements not required of all others is void. 
	Judge Twiss, of the same court, says: 
	Any construction of the statutes that would give one
class of persons the right of voting upon easier and differ-
ent terms than those given to another class would make an
inequality in the laws odious to every sense of justice and
every principle of republican government. Such statutes
would be monstrous and an offense to a government of
equal and just laws. 
	Yet here we find unnaturalized, non-tax-pay-
ing, minor females using the ballot. If the
daughter of a naturalized (?) citizen may vote, 
why not the son? If a minor, non tax-paying
girl may vote, why not the boy? Thus it is
seen that the daughter votes on the basis of
the eligibility of the father! Such is the
nature of the statute, under any just construc-
tion, void at the beginning. 
	We have seen that the "free and independ-
ent State of Desert" had been organized in
1850. During the lifetime of Brigham Young,
"on the day succeeding the adjournment of
the Territorial legislature, he, in the character
of governor of Desert, convened the same
body as a State legislature, and the business
of the State was then and there transacted."—
[Madame La Tour p. 344.] This State legis-
lature sat in judgment on the acts of the Ter-
ritorial legislature, confirming or repealing, as
the interests of the Mormon church dictated. 
This action was final. Nearly every member
of this Territorial or "State" legislature was a 
Mormon high priest, and was the possessor
of from two to seven wives. 
	Brigham Young had nineteen wives and an
indefinite list of daughters. 
	Such was the law-making power! 
	The postulate is easily sustained, that the
elective franchise was never legally conferred
upon the women of Utah. They were never
eufranchised by the Federal Government, or 
by any branch of it, or by its representatives. 
They were enfranchised by a church organiza-
tion in which the authority of the Federal
Government was not recognized even as a
factor. They were enfranchised for church
ends alone—to make the church impregnable
to outward attack, independent and hostile in
civil attitude. 
	To recognize the act is to recognize the su-
premacy of the church in civil administration. 
As proof we quote the following from Bishop
Lunt, of the Mormon Church, as published in
the San Francisco Chronicle: 
	Our vote is solid and will always remain so. It will be
thrown where the most good will be accomplished for the
church. The women of Utah vote, and they never desert
the colors of the Church; they vote for the tried friends of
the church. You can imagine the results which wisdom 
may bring about, with the assistance of a church organiza-

[Column 2]
tion like ours.  In some great political crisis the two pres-
ent political parties will bid for our support. Utah will be
admitted as a polygamous State, and the other Territories
we have peacefully subju[---]ed will be admitted also. We
will then hold the balance of power, and will dictate to the
country. We possess the ability to turn the political scale
in any particular community we desire. 
	This is the real animus of the movement.
This theory is made self-evident in the fact
that the same body of men who passed the
act of 1870 legislated away the right of dower
—an infamous scheme to give the husband the
leverage of power over the first wife. If she
refuses to give the husband a second, he in re-
taliation may will the property to the second, 
or the tenth, and the first wife be left penniless. 
	Oh! boasted magnanimity of the Mormon
hierarchy touching the civil status of woman! 
"Oh! Liberty, what deeds are done in thy
name!"
	Again, the Territories are the nation's de-
pendencies. We may term the States the na-
tion's children, the Territories are its minors 
still under subjection. The Territories have
no acquired sovereignty. 
	The organic act by which a Territorial gov-
ernment for Utah is established is the national
character of organization. The powers of the
legislative assembly are strictly defined and
limited by said act. Section 6 reads: 
	The legislative power of said Territory shall extend to
all rightful subjects of legislation consistent with the Con-
stitution of the United States and the provisions of this act,
All the laws passed by the legislative assembly and governor
snal be submitted to the Congress of the United States, 
and if disapproved shall be null and of no effect. 
	Section 5 limits the rights of citizenship to
"the free white male inhabitant," and confers
upon the legislative assembly the right of de-
fining the qualifications of voters, "provided,
the right of suffrage shall be exercised only
by citizens of the United States." 
	Therefore, the enfranchisement of the women
of Utah is in contravention of the organic act,
and is a repudiation of national supremacy. 
It has been so interpreted by the highest legal 
authority of the Territory. After the passage
of the Edmunds bill it was held by the judges
of the courts that registration could be denied
women on the basis of the invalidity of the
Territorial statute. The Utah Commission
were asked to so declare. But while listening
to the argument the Commission declined to
act. 
	Under these conditions, to construe the re-
peal of said statute as a violation of "vested
rights," is to subordinate the national Govern-
ment to a Church corporation. But it is
claimed that justice is met in the provision of
the Edmunds bill of 1882, which disfranchises
polygamists. The Edmunds bill, in effect,
corrected the abuses of the ballot by requiring
registration, by defining the age and date of
residence.
	Polygamists were disfranchsed; then the re
lations could be established—then the Mormon 
conscience repudiated perjury—then evasion
could not be sustained. The Mormons sent
circulars to their people declaring that
daughters of eligible fathers and the first
wives and widows of polygamists were entitled
to vote. The Commission were compelled to
make definite ruling on each point. After the
test of years it is found that the cohesion of
the Mormou Church has not been invaded by
the execution of this law, nor its spirit of re-
sistance to national authority restrained. What
then?  Shall the United States compromise
with this quasi sovereignty under the specious
plea of "vested rights." 
	The franchise is first a privilege conferred. 
It becomes a "right" by possession. "It can-
not be taken away except by revolution." 
This is a truism in political science under gen-
eral conditions. The parties enfranchised,
holding within themselves, by their own ballot, 

[Column 3]
the power to retain said franchise. If the
law-makers are false to their constituency and
attempt forceful withdrawal,revolution follows,
and an election of representatives who will
sustain the constituency may be had. Eng-
land and America are constantly extending
suffrage to new classes. They can add to the
list, but cannot withdraw. Not because the
ballot is a primal right. It is a privilege con-
ferred. But in its exercise inheres the power
to perpetuate itself. This is true in all the
States of this Union by virtue of State
sovereignty. 	
	A city government, however, might grant
municipal suffrage to women and the next 
legislature could pass a law prohibiting the ex-
ercise of the franchise in municipalities. The
city's power of self government is delegated
power. Exactly such is the status of the Terri-
tory. Moreover, if Congress had endorsed the
action of the Territorial legislature, Congress
has power to repeal its own action within the
limits of the National Constitution. The
Constitution of the United States has never
been amended so as to put the ballot in the
hands of women. Herein truth is stranger
than fiction! 
	The next argument of the opponents of re-
peal is—
	If you disfranchise the women why not disfranchise the
men?
	An interrogation is not a reason. It is not logic.
It is subterfuge in absence of argument. The
disfranchisement of the men is not equally just. 
The men were enfranchised by National 
authority and in consonance with constitution-
al provision. The women by an alien church
organization, which renders no allegiance to
the Government. Is it political wisdom to dis-
franchise the men? 
	The administration of a Republican govern-
ment is in the hands of the people. The authori-
ty must rest somewhere. The responsibility must 
be met by somebody. The question is simply that
of the practicability of the dissolution of the
local government. The Gentile sentiment in 
Utah favors such dissolution. Gentile
voters are willing to be disfranchised, that
civil order may be elvolved out of civil chaos.
	The Gentile policy to effect such result is
that of a legislative commission. 
	There is but one serious argument against it
—the probably transfer of Mormon political
representation to adjacent Territories, where,
in such event, the battle must be fought again. 
The disfranchisement of the women makes
possible the admission of the Gentile civil ele-
ment on an equality with the Mormon element;
gives the loyal Gentile the civil status of the
disloyal Mormon. It is claimed that this has
been accomplished already in the disfranchise-
ment of the polygamists. I deny it. Mormonism
and polygamy are in collusion. Polygamists
control the elections. The priesthood select
the candidates, and no man is put upon the
ticket, either for legislative or municipal office, 
who is not pledged to support "the divine
order." A "scratched" ticket is unknown.
At least two polygamous wives are members of
the Territorial central committee. 
	Said Dr. Ellen Ferguson, one of the Mor-
mon memorialists, at the theatre meeting at
which the Congressional memorial was drafted: 
	The ballot in the hands of the Mormon women is a
mighty power, and our enemies know it. When we raise
our voices to protest, it will be well for the Government to
listen. 
	With this "mighty power" in local politics,
county and municipal officers are entirely
Mormon. 
	The Territorial legislature had its first Gen-
tile member this year, sent from Park City, and
a bill passed both houses to redistrict the Terri-
tory in order to avert such calamities in
future. 
	Laws controlling municipal elections are


[Column 1]
such that the aldermen are placed on the gener-
al list. Thus no Gentile ward can elect a 
Gentile member of the city council. 
	Withdraw this "mighty power" in elections—
of 12,000 female votes—and very soon county
and municipal Gentile officers could be elected
and Gentile representatives chosen for the
legislature, This would be the immediate re-
sult in Ogden. Is the need of such representa-
tion commensurate with the cost? Judge ye. 
Under the Utah statutes no sexual crime is 
punishable save "rape," which law was evident-
ly framed for the Gentiles. Chastity has no
protection. The Mormon legislature, sitting
since the organization of the Territory, has
never framed a statute touching incest, seduc-
tion, adultery, bigamy, or polygamy, save once. 
That was inadvertently done through a hasty
adoption of the California code, and it was re-
pealed at the next session. 
	The legislature of the past winter convened
during the excitement of the Hampton conspir-
acy. This conspiracy was a carefully con-
structed Mormon plot to blacken the character
of Gentile residents; to arrest and punish vic-
tims under assumed municipal (Mormon) au-
thority. For the execution of this dastardly
outrage, lewd women were imported, at Mor-
mon expense; their rooms furnished by the
Mormons, and arranged so that witnesses could 
be secreted. Scores of letters were addressed 
to Gentiles, inviting them to call on important 
business. The names of two hundred Gentiles
were put upon the "black list." The scheme
was thwarted by Judge Zane's ruling that
municipal courts had no jurisdiction. 
	Public sentiment, thus intensified, demanded
Territorial laws. The one Genlile member in-
troduced a bill which should punish any viola-
tor Mormon or Gentile. The legislature scarce-
ly wished to incur the odium of repudiation. 
They attempted to defeat the measure by in-
troducing a disgraceful substitute which pun-
ished "unmarried men who should debauch un-
married women."
	A bill passed both houses, which amended
the Ogden charter by delegating power to 
the municipality to punish sexual crimes un-
touched by general statute. This was the ini-
tial step towards granting to all incorporated
cities the power to deal with such offenses. 
Why? If the legislature enacted such statutes, 
Mormons as well as Gentiles would be subject
to arrest. The city officials.are Mormon. If 
cities had exclusive jurisdiction, Gentiles alone
would be made to feel the penalty of violation. 
Moreover, under the Mormon Church regime
Mormons are amenable only to church rule; 
are tried in ecclesiastical courts, and sentenced
by the bishops to suffer church, not civil, penal-
ties. Governor Murray, always loyal and
heroic in action in vetoing the Ogden charter
bill, used this language: 
	While lust can blight the whole Territory without finding
any rebuke at the hands of the legislature, the attempt to 
confer power on a municipal corporation to punish local
transgressions against morality in the indefinite, inadequate, 
and inoperative way done in this bill cannot have my sanc-
tion. 
	Again, polygamy, even under United States
law, is rarely punished, as convictions are only
obtained under the "unlawful cohabitation" 
clause, with Judge Zane's ruling that "holding
out to the world as wives" constitutes the of-
fense. Why? The Utah statutes are silent on 
the subject of marriage. No marriage licenses, 
no certificates of marriage, no civil records of
marriage, are required. Marriage ceremonies
are performed in the endowment house, wit-
nessed only by Mormons. The statute of limi-
tation cuts off prosecution in three years, i. e.,
it is a crime to live in polygamy the first 
three years; it is a virtue thereafter. Laws for 
the supression of sexual crimes can only be
enacted when Gentile representation predomin-
ates in the legislature,and can only be executed 

[Column 2]
when the city and county officials are Ameri-
can citizens, not alien theorists. It is urged 
that the ballot of the Gentile women is as po-
tent as that of the Mormon women. The cen-
ters of Gentile representation are the mining
districts. Most of the miners are unmarried
men, or men who have left their families in the
East. The vote of the Mormon women nulli-
fies Gentile political power in these districts. 
Gentile women rarely vote in any part of the 
Territory. First, because their ballot signifies
nothing; it is labor lost. Second, the general
exercise of the ballot in the Territory is such
a travesty upon all that is sacred to woman
that Christian motherhood refuses to be com-
promised  by  recognition of the nefarious
scheme. Where, then, is the argument against
the passage of section 7 of the pending Ed-
munds bill? In the adverse sentiment of the
advocates of universal suffrage in the States? 
The sentiment of even this class of distinguished
women is not altogether adverse. "The Wo-
man's Home Missionary Society" of the Me-
thodist Episcopal Church, of which Mrs. 
Rutherford B. Hayes is the president, with
such ladies as Mrs. Governor Foraker, of 
Ohio, Mrs. Bishops Walden, Warren, Wiley, 
and Andrews, and many others of recognized
ability and social power, members of its execu-
tive committee, at its national session in Oct., 
1883, passed, without a dissenting voice, the
following resolution:
	Resolved, That a committee be appointed to confer with
the civil and religious authorities at Salt Lake City, and
make careful investigation of the relation of the ballot in 
the hands of the women of Utah to Territorial legislation, 
to Congressional representation at the national capital, and,
above all, to its power to perpetuate the religious bondage
and domestic slavery of the women so enfranchised: and if 
they shall find the facts to warrant, they shall draft peti-
tions to be circulated for signatures, which shall be pre-
sented to the Congressional committee at Washington, ask-
ing for the disfranchisement of the women of Utah, or for
a radical change of the whole form of government. 
	In pursuance of the resolution, the following
committee was appointed: Rev. T. C. Iliff. su-
perintendent of Methodist missions in Utah; 
Judge Boreman of the Lalt Lake bar; Mrs. 
Paddock, of Salt Lake, author of many books; 
and Mrs. Angie F. Newman, of Nebraska. 
Mrs. Newman went immediately to Utah. The
committee then faithfully complied with every
specification of the resolution as to conference
and investigation. In harmony with the judg-
ment of Federal officers and ecclesiastical au-
thorities, the petition was drafted by the com-
mittee and circulated by the W. H. M. S.
	Just as the petition emerged from the press
in Salt Lake City, a dinner was given to Rev. 
Joseph Cook, of Boston, at the house of Mrs. 
Paddock, of the committee, at which were
present Federal and ecclesiastical authorities
who had endorsed the movement. Its scope
and purpose were the theme of discussion. 
Mrs. Newman offered the distinguished guest a 
copy of the petition. Upon examination he
exclaimed, "Excellent, excellent! I will sign it
and inclose it in a letter to Senator Edmunds."
Such is the estimate of those who have studied
the Mormon problem within the Territory. 
Individual and official signatures of organized
bodies of Christian women were obtained, re-
presenting 250,000 women in the States. 
	On the 16th of June, 1884, these petitions
were read in the United States Senate by Sena-
tor Hoar. Congress adjourned before the bill 
passed the House. Many of these 250,000 
women have been champions of equal suffrage
from the rostrum and in the press for many
years.
	Such is enlightened Christian sentiment—
sentiment which holds the sanctity of Christian
marriage and the protection of virtue as at
least co-equal with civil liberty. It is, we be-
lieve, only a misapprehension of the fact terse-
ly expressed in convention by the lamented 

[Column 3]
Bishop Wiley, "that woman suffrage in Utah
only means woman's suffering," which has led
any true woman to advocate its sustentation. 
The franchise conferred by a theocracy, exer-
cised under its dominance, made to conserve its
power, to perpetuate polygamous life, and to 
clothe lawlessness with authority, is not the
franchise of a Christian republic. Let the
act be repealed in the grant of a legislative
commission, otherwise in the passage of sec-
tion 7 of the Edmunds bill, for righteousness' 
sake, for humanity's sake, and in defense of 
liberty protected by law, the only liberty un-
der the flag. 	MRS. ANGIE F. NEWMAN. 
	S. Mis. 122—2.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.						
﻿


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[picture of hand pointing] CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[picture of hand pointing] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR[-]E
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[picture of hand pointing] Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 308. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1863.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
[picture of hand pointing] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBINS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes:
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

