VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1886.	NO. 7.


THOU AND I.

Ere first my mortal being dawned
	Like coming daylight's faintest light,
When gazing on Thy footstool here,
	Like one slow wand'ring through the night,
O was earth's welcome shadowed with
	The memory of heaven's good bye,
Was this first breath weighed with regret
	Of parting betwixt Thou and I?

Thou gavest me Thy blessing and
	Thy guardian care (veiled from my sight,)
And, as a child who plays alone,
	Its mother's care forgetteth quite;
I passed through scenes of pleasure, 'til
	Long time had passed and shades were nigh,
And started, now a child no more—
	Changing life's smiling for its sigh.

To learn, through jar and shock of wrong,
	What else were never understood,
Through lightning's darts and thunder's voice
	The blessed rain fall's mission good;
And when fierce winds, that swathe us 'round,
	Sweep earth beneath and fill the sky,
Then wrapped in fear, to feel the arm—
	The bond of trust twixt Thou and I.

With famished lips, or wrung with pain,
	Or saddest wronged by trait'rous friends,
When death hath lifted up our own,
	And helpless woe o'er all extends,
O then we learn the lesson long
	Thy Son learned ere He bowed to die;
Stronger and nearer draws the bond,
	My Father, betwixt Thou and I.

The richest joys that life hath known,
	Have wearied us or paled away,
Pain for their loss was longer lived
	As darkness, than the fairest day;
Yet, thanks for hours of bliss that shone
	Across our summer day and sky,
They held to view in lesser like
	The perfect joy reserved on high.

Though chaos and its voices rise
	In endless roll through echoing air,
Thine eye votes every glance to Thee,
	Thou hearest e'en the whispered prayer.
O triumph thrill this fettered frame!
	The rack and wheel bring nearer by—
The clasp of death, the only spell
	That rends the veil twixt Thou and I.

		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, Aug. 13, 1886.


[Column 1]

AN IDEAL HOME.

	I believe there is to be found in the homes
of the Latter-day Saints more purity, virtue
love, affection and a greater exercise of all the
divine principles, than can be found in the
homes of any other people on earth. And yet,
my observation has led me to believe that some
of our homes are not by any means what they
should be.
	As long as sin is allowed to exist at home,
there is no hope of raising society to that high
standard of perfection that is talked and writ-
ten upon by so many,—"home, home, sweet,
sweet home." It should be the heart's dearest
sanctuary. Every member of its holy circle
should lend his or her influence to make it an
Eden, a refuge from sin,and the contaminating
influences that abound in the world.
	Without the combined efforts of the family
it cannot be made what it should be. But the

[Column 2]

greatest responsibility rests upon the mother.
To her is given the sacred charge. God has
entrusted her to perform that sacred labor—
the molding of minds. We may praise her
in truth, for her tenderness, affection, devotion
and unbounded love for her offspring, and yet
she often fails to do her duty by them, simply
because she does not know what it is. Most
mothers realize to some extent the weight of
the responsibilities resting upon them, but
many do not sense it one tenth part as much
as they should; home and family ties should
not be neglected for anything else this world
affords. If mothers knew the glory, joy and
satisfaction they will receive if they train the
precious souls entrusted to their care in a way
that will enable them to gain eternal life and
a full salvation, they would indeed be en-
couraged. They would not look around for an
occupation that would bring brighter glories;
for them there is no nobler work. Let woman
understand her domestic duties and perform
them well, and she calls down the blessings of
heaven; but she too often fails to comprehend
the object of her creation. Girls, too many of
them, marry without giving the responsibilities
of their future lives a single thought, suppos-
ing all women capable of filling the offices of
married life. They are apt to think it re-
quires but little knowledge and an inferior in-
tellect to perform such duties; but every mother
should be highly educated and refined. She
should seek for knowledge from the best of
books, and adopt the best plans she can learn
of for the welfare of the little realm called
home, over which she is queen. Her most
anxious care and increasing watchfulness is
called forth while her children are young, for
impressions made then are lasting, and the
little tender ones, before their minds are some-
what matured or developed, are incapable of
taking care of themselves, and should not be
trusted from the mother's side, unless she
knows the company they are in, and knows it
to be fit for her child to mingle with, for it
will certainly influence them either for good or
for evil.
	Now is the time for all those elevating and
ennobling principles to be instilled into their
pure minds. And when they are older your
careful training will begin to show itself in the
way of the devoted love of a sister to her
brother, a brother's protecting care for a sister,
sisters clinging to each other in love and affec-
tion, brothers preferring the charms of home
to those offered elsewhere.
	In my ideal home, the home I believe it is
possible for all true parents and children to
make for themselves, I see no bad examples
set by the father, such as rough, uncouth ac-
tions and language, a violation of the word of
wisdom, Sabbath breaking, or profanity, but I
see a character who seems to understand that
he should be a light, a guiding star, whose
luster must not be dimmed by evil deeds, but
made brighter by noble ones, shedding forth
shining rays, and lighting the path of those
whom God has entrusted to his protection.
The mother is gentle, yet firm, kind, yet not
too indulgent, but ever loving and self-sacrific-
ing to those dear ones who form a part of her
very existence.
	The younger children, whose hearts know
nothing but happiness, look up to the older
ones in confidence, following their worthy ex-
amples and emulating their goodness. All

[Column 3]

have been taught to be industrious, cleanly
and orderly, to control their passions, lest they
do or say something that would wound the
hearts of those it is their destiny to live and
associate with daily.
	I know just such homes, and there is a spirit
of peace and contentment felt there that truly
reminds one of that home called heaven, which
I believe the inmates of my ideal home will
reach.	M. A. T.
	Smithfield, August 11, 1886.


PREJUDICE BLIND TO FACTS. 

	STILL WE WILL PROTEST. 

	The enemies of the Latter-day Saints will
persist in keeping them continually in the at-
titude of defense. We are not an aggressive
people; most gladly would we walk in the
quiet paths of peace and improvement, but
the attacks constantly made upon our people, 
practices and religious institutions compels us
to defend them against the most bitter and un-
just assaults from all quarters. 
	Were we really the vile and abominable peo-
ple that our enemies would have us appear—
why is not the truth, plain, indisputable truth, 
sufficient to arouse a nation's hatred without
the everlasting resort to the manufacture of
malicious lies by the wholesale. The women
of Utah had not recovered from the shock of
disgust and indignation occasioned by reading
a living abomination, called by Mrs. Angie F. 
Newman of Nebraska, "A petition to Congress
to deprive the women of Utah of the right of
franchise," in which she displays the most in-
tense hatred and ignorance of the subject
which she essays to handle with such eloquence
—her charges are a burning insult to thousands
of her sex, as intelligent, virtuous and noble
women as ever graced this fair earth, and for 
the second time I felt it my duty to refute her
malicious misrepresentations, but ere I began 
the task. the visit of the G. A. R. to Salt Lake
City, and some of the speeches made at the
Pavilion has furnished other demands for the
women of Zion to defend themselves against
another volley of cruel indignities and vile 
insults, proving that the efforts of such works 
as Mrs. Newman's have not been in vain, and 
the most unjust prejudice has found fruitful
soil in the hearts of ignorant and thoughtless
people who apparently have been made willing
victims of falsehood and deception. That
people at a distance should be deceived by so
many false and unscrupulous teachers, is not
amazing, but that such people as fill the ranks
of the G. A. R., professing the principles of
Christianity, and representing the patriotism of
this great nation should come here to the capi-
tol of our Territory and display their ill-gotten 
information and entire ignorance of the people
and situation is truly marvelous. 
	They talked about liberating the "slaves," 
the women—" Mormon" women, of course. 
Until the "Mormon" women acknowledge this
position and assume the attitude of slaves, 
pleading deliverance, such sentiments are a
gross insult to our womanhood, and we de-
cidedly resent it. We have not been trained to
ignobly submit to insult from man, having
always been treated with the greatest respect 
and deference by the brotherhood of this
Church, and we will not quietly submit to in-


[Column 1]
dignities offered under the guise of patriotic
gallantry.
	I was born on the once barren soil of Salt
Lake City, a child of freedom, proud of my
birth right, trained to freedom of thought,
freedom of speech and liberty of action con-
sistent with the rights of others. Some of my
earliest recollections are of the celebrations of
Independence day, when I learned to love the
Stars and Stripes and honor the Constitution,
which guaranteed to all "life, liberty and the 
pursuit of happiness, and to every creed the 
right to worship God according to the dictates
of conscience." These ideas are indelibly
stamped upon my soul, and I emphatically
deny ever being taught disloyalty to the govern-
ment of the United States.
	And from the principles of the Gospel as
taught by Jesus Christ in former days and
again established on earth through Joseph
Smith in this dispensation, I have received ex-
tended views on the rights and privileges of
woman, and I know that the Church of Jesus 
Christ of Latter-day Saints proclaims the
greatest freedom and broadest charity for
woman. She is regarded as man's equal, and
his duty to protect, honor and cherish her is
clearly defined.
	Let those who would learn of the true status
of woman in this Church, throw away all no-
tions obtained from the ravings of anti-Mor-
mon zealots. Let reason govern all your in-
vestigations, and make a memoranda of a few
facts, furnished by the people upon whose
cause you are to sit in judgment.
	The women of this Church are charged with
being slaves. In face of the fact that she has
an equal vote in all ecclesiastical affairs, which
prevents the possibility of tyranny from the
Church, she still holds the right of suffrage
(despite the determined efforts of our pre-
tended emancipators to wrest it from us,) and
as the ballot is secret, political despotism is a 
myth. Again, women have perfect freedom
of speech, and are thoroughly organized and
trained in public speaking. I don't think
there is a community on earth where women
have greater privileges in this respect.  Then
she has full liberty of the press; the columns
of every newspaper are at her service, and
women even publish a paper, in which every
woman is urged to express her views and senti-
ments on all subjects.
	Women have on several occasions embraced
the privilege of holding mass meetings, when
thousands of women throughout the Territory
have assembled and emphatically protested
against the wrong, injustice and oppression—
not of men holding the priesthood, or any
Church measure, but against the national de-
fenders and protectors of women (?) They
have drawn up memorials, framed protests and
sent intelligent, educated ladies to represent
them at the capitol of the nation, besides sign-
ing petitions in the usual order, with 50,000
signatures. Are these the acts and privileges
of slaves? Let common sense answer. I will
go farther, and state that we have other rights,
which the Gospel and the Constitution have
conferred upon us. Each woman has the
right to the love, care and protection of the
husband of her choice, embracing the right to
fulfill the first great law of her being, to be-
come an honorable wife and mother. Where
is there a community of women more blest?
We have the right to hold land in our own
title, and pay taxes on it, too, but not as many
others, without representation. We have the
right to accept any proposal of marriage, also the
perfect right to refuse, and girls are not driven
to Zion like dumb brutes and married by the
dozen to men in authority. Nothing but fic-
tion will sustain such statements.
	Mrs. Nichols, of the Relief Corps, invited
the oppressed women of Utah to come to New 
York and they should receive help, for there she

[Column 2]
had every right that any woman ought to have;
personally speaking perhaps she has, but can
she say this truthfully of thousands of her
sex? We know she cannot. Many of the
Saints have been rescued from the bondage,
grinding poverty and sins of New York and
other American cities, and they know that
their present condition is infinitely improved
in these pleasant vales; besides, we are a read-
ing community. Were the statistics of New
York never published we might have a little
better opinion of society there. They record
30,000 prostitutes, and as many so-called "sur-
plus women"—(a libel on the economy of her
Creator.)
	By the time Mrs. Nichols and her philan-
thropic sisters have reclaimed and provided
for all there, and the thousands of homeless,
neglected, half-starved and over-worked child-
ren besides, she may consistently come to the
rescue of "Mormon" women. In the meantime
we will enjoy our perfect freedom, our happy
homes, noble husbands, our bright, healthy,
well-cared-for children, and pray for deliver-
ance from outside tyranny and oppression.
					A PLURAL WIFE.
	Aug. 9, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER. 

MRS. HANNAH T. KING: 
	Dear Madame:—In looking over my old
numbers of the Exponent, I find an article
written by you upon the biography of Alice
and Phoebe Cary; and I had written a sketch
concerning our gifted Ohio girls recently in
the Cincinnati Commercial Gazette, and was so
surprised and pleased upon coming across
your article yesterday, the EXPONENT was
of June 15th, 1880. On the 24th of last
October, one of the loveliest Autumn days,
a real poem, or grand painting, as I remem-
ber it now, we, my husband, children and my-
self visited the birthplace and girlhood home
of the Cary sisters.	*	*	You can
imagine my feelings, mingled pleasure and
pain, as I stood upon the very spot where "the 
brown house, low and small," had once been
the "Clover nook" so dear to the hearts of the
sisters. A flock of chattering blackbirds
flew over our heads and swallows dipped near
the ground, close by just as they did years ago
when the "mother, blue-eyed and beautiful" 
watched her children playing in the door yard. 
	I was born and have always lived within a
few miles of the place; my relatives and the
Cary sisters have associated and intermarried; 
yet this was my first visit to the place. Hop-
ing you will be pleased with this letter and so
forth, I remain
			Very respectfully, 
						E. S. D.


[Column 1]
	NOTES AND NEWS. 
	
	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar, writing from Bir-
mingham, Eng., to the Inter-Ocean, expresses
great satisfaction in the English middle-classes.
She gives a vivid description of the degraded
position of the women and children in the
manufacturing districts. 

	A regulation as old as the French Academy
of Sciences has just been broken in Paris.
Women have hitherto been excluded from the
sittings of the Academy, but at the meeting of
June 28 the interdiction was raised in favor of
Mlle. Sophie Kowlewska, Professor of Mathe-
matics at the University of Stockholm, and
daughter of the eminent paleontologist. Ad-
miral Jurien de la Graviere, who presided,
welcomed her in graceful terms, and said that
her presence should be a cause of pride and
pleasure, not only to the mathematicians pres-
ent,but to the whole Academy. As she entered,
all the members rose to salute her.  She took

[Column 2]
her place between Gen. Fave and M. Chevreul.
—Scientific American.

	Miss Elizabeth H. Denio, Professor of Ger-
man and Lecturer on the History of Art at
Wellesley College, has made a fine German
translation of Ramona, by “H. H.” The
translation is published in Leipzie, and is
done intelligently, and with a keener apprecia-
tion of the author’s delicate vein than could
be hoped for from a translator less favorably
placed.

	The Twelfth Parliament of Queen Victoria
which opened on Thursday, August 5th, is
likely to prove even more friendly to the cause
of women, than that which closed its brief
space of existence last June. The first thing
of note is that for the first time in the history
of the Women’s Suffrage Movement, its friends
number an actual majoriy in the House
amounting to 344: equivalent to a majority of
14. The next point for encouragement is the
marked diminution from defeat, retirement, or
other causes, of the opponents of the measure,
only about 136 having been returned, the
opinions of the remainder are still unknown,
and it may be confidently hoped that many
additional friends will be secured. 
   At the opening of the last Parliament, the
number of known friends was 314, and the
second reading of the Women’s Suffrage Bill
was carried without a division.  We may,
therefore, hope for a still greater measure of
success during next session.	
   On August 5th, the day when Parliament
opened, a deputation from the principal Com-
mittees waited on Mr. Woodall with a request
that he would re-introduce the Parliamentary
Franchise (extension to women) Bill in the
ensuing session.—Ex.

	A Lady LL. D.—The President of Smith
College Northampton, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
has just forwarded to Miss Amelia B. Edwards,
the gratifying intelligence that his college has
conferred on her the honorary degree of LL.
D., adding that this is the first occasion on
which an American college has conferred that
degree on a woman.  We may add that it is
the first time that any woman in Her Majes-
ty’s dominions has received the distinction.
	The Royal Irish University, which last year
conferred the honorary degree of Doctor of
Music on the Princess of Wales, set a preced-
ent for conferring an honorary degree on a
lady.  But if we would seek a precedent for the
special degree of the Doctor of Laws, we shall
have to go back to the days when the Univer-
sity of Bologna admitted ladies as professors
of the learned sciences in the 13th and 14th
centuries.
	We heartily congratulate Miss Edwards on
this recognition of her services to learning.
Miss Edwards’ name is doubtless familiar to
many of our readers as the author of “Bar-
bara’s History,” "A Thousand Miles up the
Nile,” and many other writings; but it may be
less generally known that she is the indefat-
igable secretary of the Egyptian Exploration
Fund, a member of the British Archaeological
Society, and of the Society for Promoting Hel-
lenic Studies.  Miss Edwards is also a Vice-
President of the West of England Society for
Women’s suffrage.—Ex.


Patents have been issued to women during 
the week ending August 3, 1886, as follows:
	Louisa Cappiani, New York, N. Y. Sheet-
music case. 
	Ellen Dillon, Sioux City, Iowa, Flat-iron 
Heater.
	Ella N, Gaillard,New York, N. Y., Musical 
Watch. 
	Mary J. Holt, San Francisco, Cal., Portable 
Book-holder. 
	Fanny K. Marsh, Bloomsburg, Pa., Dust-pan


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


I AM WEARY. 

I am weary of the sin
	Of the pain, the care, the woe, 
That increasing come to greet me, 
	As the years that ebb and flow. 

Weary of the boasted pleasures, 
	Lurking 'mid the wild world's throng, 
Where the only queen is fashion,
	And the only law is wrong. 

Weary of the false ambition
	With the low, deceitful shoals, 
Overhung with crowns' of greatness,
	That have wrecked so many souis.

But through life's fleeting journey
	May we never, never know
Of the wondrous "Balm of Gilead,"
	Healing hearts of pain and woe. 

Far beyond there is a haven, 
	Golden sunset! peaceful, blest;—
Where the soul long tried and weary, 
	Seeks at last eternal rest. 
					ANONYMOUS.


ENDLESS LIFE. 

	Glad earth, I love thee; 
Like Gems I cherish every sparkling hour; 
The fields around me and the skies above me,
The whistering zephyr and the answering flower,
	Restore my waning power. 
	
	I count each season, 
While from life's mountain-top around I gaze, 
As one more gift of God, a precious reason 
For orisons of prayer and chants of praise
	Through all my blessed days. 

	But on the morrow
When light shall fade and life-blood cease to flow, 
I shall resign thee with no shade of sorrow, 
And smile but one farewell before I go
	From realms that mortals know. 

	Then onward flying
From tangled paths that I shall tread no more,
My soul, heaven's clearer sunrise soon descrying,
Renewed and freed, shall reach another shore,
	With endless life before. 
	BY JULIA NOYES STICKNEY. 
Groveland, Mass.


EMILY BRONTE'S LAST LINES.


	No coward soul is mine,
No trembler in the world's storm-troubled sphere;
	I see heaven's glories shine,
And faith shines equal, arming me from fear.


	O God, within my breats,
Almighty, ever present Deity!
	Life, that in me has rest,
As I—undying life—have power in thee.

	Vain are the thousand creeds
That move men's hearts: unutterably vain;
	Worthless as withered weeds,
Or idlest froth amide the boundless main.

	To waken doubt in one,
Holding so fast by thine infinity,
	So surely anchored on
That steadfast rock of immortality.

	With wide-embracing love
Thy spirit animates eternal years.
	Pervades and broods above,
Changes, sustains, dissolves, creates and rears.

	Though earth and man were gone,
And suns and universes ceased to be,
	And thou wert left alone,
Every existence would exist in thee.

	There is no room for Death.
No atom that his might could render void:
	Thou—thou art Being, Breath;
And what thou art may never be destroyed.


[Column 1]
	AN EMPHATIC PROTEST

EDITOR EXPONENT
	DEAR SISTER:—I will try to give you a few
of my thoughts and ideas upon Mrs. A. F.
Newman’s petition. I shall not attempt to de-
scribe my feelings while reading it; perhaps
they can better be imagined; by the majority
of my sisters who have read the article, than
described by me, for I am sure it can not be
read by any lover of truth or fair dealing, or
one at all acquainted with the situation, with
any thing less than, feelings of amazement and
indignation. She respectfully represents that
on the 6th of March, 1886, two thousand Mor-
mon women assembled in mass meeting in 
Salt Lake City, to protest against the invasion 
of their rights by Federal interference, etc.
Quoting a preamble and resolutions, she adds
"These resolutions are the expression of Mor-
mon sentiment." In this I am sure she tells 
the truth, for I am firmly convinced that to 
the two thousand women that attended the 
mass meeting might be added the names of 
many thousands more who were not there, but 
whose hearts and sympathies were with them 
on that day, and responede to the sentiments 
there expressed. 
	In speaking of President Brigham Young, 
in connection with this matter, she says,
"The wily deceiver then evoulted from his
narrow soul, the magnanimous scheme of en-
franchising the women." Now, if my memory 
does not fail me, it was from the "narrow 
souls" of our Gentile friends that this mag-
nanimous scheme was evolved. They
clamored for the right of franchise to be con-
ferred upon the Mormon women, that by their 
votes they might free themselves from priestly 
bondage; but for some unaccountable reason
the Mormon women don't want to get out of 
bondage "worth a cent," to use a slang phrase.
They, like the balance of mankind generally,
rather like their friends better than their ene-
mies, and for that reason they vote for their 
friends; moreover they believe they have the 
right and the sense to know who their friends
are better than their enemies can tell them.
She says, "The civil polity of Utah Territory
is unrepublican; it was framed by a people 
anti-American in sentiment and hostile in pur-
pose; a people unfamiliar with the genius of 
republican institutions, fresh from the despot-
isms of the old world." 
	Now, I had thought that our leaders, (who,
according to Mrs. Newman, are the real law-
makers,) were, with very few exceptions,native
born Americans, and loved and revered her 
institutions, and were taught that that sacred 
instrument, the Constiution was a God given 
instrument, and whose fathers had fought, bled, 
and some of them died in defense of the 
same. 
	I have been educated (and my father has 
for many years been one of those who helped 
to make and administer the local laws) in the 
belief that this American Governmnet is the 
most liberal, grand and glorious government 
under the whole heavens. Why, does it not 
open its doors to the oppressed of all nations? 
And we claim the righ to differ in our opinions 
from some other people, if we cannot see that 
a small parcel of ignorant, ungodly, bigoted 
fanatics, called Federal officials and their Echo's
constitute the U.S. Government. True, they 
are its representatives, but if I had more faith 
in them I should have less in the government.
She further says, quoting Mrs, Steuhouse,
"I have often seen one solitary man driving 
into the city a whole wagon load of women, of 
all ages and sizes. They were going to the 
polls, and their votes would be one." Well, she 
might, if she watched for it, see the same sight 
in every ward in the city. The brethren get 
out their teams and carry the aged and infirm 
to the polls, and let the men and the robust

[Column 2]
 women walk, as they are perfectly willing to 
do, if they are in the line of their duty; and 
there is no law that I know of against a man 
carrying women of all sizes and ages; from 
twenty one years up as high as we can count.
She did not say there were any children.
"Again and again has it been charged in the
public prints of Utah, by eye witnesses, and 
unrefuted by the Mormon Church, that the 
genealogies of the dead, the unborn and de-
ceased had been represented at the ballot box,"
Some of the "public prints" in Utah will 
charge the Mormon people with anything, no 
matter how ridiculous, and otherwise, sane peo-
ple will roll it under their tongues as a sweet
morsel. As to the "Mormon" Church" refut-
ing such slanders, it is here on other business,
and I think, with the help of God, is abundant-
ly able to carry it on. Why, I feel somewhat 
lowered myself in undertaking to notice them;
and if I did not think there were some honor-
able people left left in the world, I would not 
do so. 
	I have not noticed all the falsehoods which
are embodied in her "petition," for I expect 
this article is already lengthy enough to tre-
pass on space that might be occupied by those 
who are better posted on this matter than my-
self; but I do feel like adding my protest to 
that of my sisters, (as I was not in Salt Lake 
 City at the time of holding the mass meeting,)
against being deprived of the right of fan-
chise, which we have exercised for many years,
and which we have never abused; I also pro-
test against the outrageous, infamous false-
hoods which are sent out broadcast to the 
world from this city, concerning the condition 
of Mormon women, by those who know better. 
I would say to such falsifers, for your own, if 
not for humanity's sake, pause! If you can-
not do good, cease to do evil and persecute an 
innocent people, before the wrath and indigna-
tion of an offended God, who takes care of His 
people, overtakes you to your utter destruction,
except you repent. When the cries of the 
wives and the little ones of those whom you 
have caused to be hunted, persecuted, exiled 
and imprisoned for conscience' sake, shall as-
cend to the ears of Him "who heareth even 
the ravens when they cry," and who has said,
"Not a hair of our head shall fall to the 
ground unnoticed," and do not the wrongs of 
the many fair daughters of our common father,
God, cry aloud from every city in the Union 
for vengeance on their seducers from the path 
of virtue? Aye, and the tears of broken 
hearted wives, who cannot trust their husbands
and God-will hear the cries of His daughters 
and avenge their wrongs. And in my humble 
opinion it would better become those ladies 
who are seeking to get legislation against the 
people of God, to go home and do all that lies 
in their power to ameliorate the condition of 
suffering humanity around thier own doorsteps. 
We were happy until they came among us,and 
we will be happy when they leave, or learn 
the Mormon creed, "Mind your own business." 
	RUTH.
Salt Lalt City, Aug. 10, 1886.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	If a man is faithful to truth, truth will be
faithful to him.  He need have no fears.  His
success is a question of time.—Prof. Phelps.

     When you have learned to submit, to do
faithfully, patiently, duty that is most distaste-
ful to you, God may permit you to do the work
you like.—Prof. Riddle. 

   The best of a book is not the thought which
it contains, but the thought it suggests, just as
the charm of music dwells not in the the tones,
but in the echoes of our hearts.—Holmes.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, n Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,  				SEPTEMBER 1, 1886.


HERE AND THERE.

	These are times fraught with the deepest inter-
est to the Latter-day Saints.  Every day furnishes
some fresh incident worthy of record in the annals
of their history.  Surely the Lord is hastening
his work in his time, for one event crowds so
quickly upon another that it is scarcely possible
to give each separate occurrence its proper
place in the hurry and bustle of chronicling things
as they transpire.  The newspaper reporter mnst
be more than ordinarily active to keep up with the
chapter of accidents and matters of a similar
character that transpire daily in the midst of this
moderate-sized inland city.  When we look around
over the United States and elsewhere abroad, and
consider the condition of the world and the won-
derful events transpiring from time to time, of
which we only learn a few; what then?  Every
person who believes in the prophecies of the Holy
Scripture must be more or less gravely impressed
by the “signs of the times,” and feel that there is
a power at work among the nations, above the
comprehension of finite beings. Latter-day Saints
know, or ought to know something about what
these marvelous and wonderful events portend,
and knowing and understanding as they do, should
seek continually for the Spirit of the Lord to be
with them, that they may be able to stand in the
day of trial, the test of integrity that will be re-
quired of each one, who has entered into holy
covenants to keep the commandments of God.
     It is not a time for vanity, folly or nonsense, and
yet how careless and indifferent many are in their
daily walk and conversation.  It is not expected
that young people will be restricted from healthful
amusements, or reasonable enjoyment; this peo-
ple have always sought to fnrnish places of recrea-
tion where the young folks could meet together in
theatres, parties, concerts, etc., and partake of all
innocent pastimes such as are good for the body
and the mind.  Parents have met with children
and children with parents, and good order has
been preserved and prayers offered, and the good
spirit that Saints cultivate when they are following
in the paths of duty and of righteousness, always
sheds its benign influence upon such social gather-
ings.  Excess in pleasure-seeking will inevitably
lead to dangerous results sooner or later; and
where there is a tendency to over-indulgence, the
wisest course would be to stop and let one’s rea-
son and judgment have time to act; the mind may
become so accustomed to excitement that when
over-wrought it refuses to be passive, and the
spirit of unrest takes possession of the person
and great unhappiness is often the consequence.
Young people frequently grow reckless with too
much pleasure and do and say things that are not
consistent, and without thought, not having had
perhaps in many instances proper training, that
under another influence they would not be per-
suaded to do upon any account.  They tire, so to
speak, of everything that is tame, and complain
of ennui, when wholesome exercise in the way of
actual work is what they most need, and would
be the best antidote for restlessness.

[column 2]
	It seems strange that Latter-day Saints should be
"lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God;" but it
is the spirit of the world, and it has obtained a foot-
hold here in Zion that this people would once have 
thought impossible.  It is high time some restrain-
ing influence should be brought to bear, to awaken
the young people to their true condition and their
own best interests.  After all, what is there in this
excess of pleasure that can give solid enjoyment
or permanent satisfaction.  It is vain and empty, 
it can never satisfy the cravings of the immortal
soul, nor even a laudable ambition.  It is a power-
ful evil influence to lead away and destroy those
who are capable of better things.  In many in-
stances upon record, one finds those on whom the
Creator had bestowed great gifts have allowed
 themselves to become entangled in the vortex of
fashion, and have yielded to temptation, and in an
evil hour have fallen a prey to the destroyer.
Sometimes through taking "a convivial glass," as
it is called, men have finally succumbed to a mor-
bid appetite, until they were lost to the proprieties
of life and even decency, and their existence has
became a burden.
     It does seem inconsistent that at a time when
persecution is being waged against the Latter-day
Saints, and the whole world arrayed against them, 
as it were, that such a spirit of pleasure-seeking
should have gained ground among the young, and
even many whose years and experience should
have given them greater wisdom.  After all it does
not happify; ask any one of those who have gone
through the whole giddy round of dazzling pleas-
ures, and have plunged deepest into the mazy
labyrinths of the world's most fascinating enjoy-
ments, and they will tell you that after years of 
vain searches after happiness, with shattered
nerves and broken health they have sought to
drown trouble in the unknown, mystic river,
Lethe, but all their plans and devices have failed.
Happiness in this life is not the highest good to 
be attained, and if one seeks for that even, they
must seek it in doing good to others; there is no
such thing as isolated happiness.  The consecra-
tion of life to some positive work, with the assur-
ance of its being in the line of duty, affords more
true, genuine happiness than the pursuit of dreamy
pleasure ever could.  Life is full of opportunities
for noble work, work for humanity, and the friv-
olous pastimes with which many fritter away the 
best years allotted to them on earth, is in many
cases a source of unceasing regret in after life.
     To moralize, however, was not our object, but to
enter an earnest, emphatic protest against so much
extravagant folly and excessive gaiety as prevails
at the present time, here and there among this
people.  The simplicity of the primitive days in 
these valleys, when carding, spinning, and color-
ing were daily vocations, and when homespun was
good enough for Sunday wear, or social parties,
would be far preferable and better for the health
and permanent happiness of the young, than the
habits many are now pursuing.  It is not a time
for extravagance, or great demonstrations of joy;
there is, on the contrary, particular need to econo-
mize and carefully husband the slender means at
hand and waste not in riotous living, that which
has been given to the Saints to enjoy.  Prosperity
in worldly matters ought not to make this people
forgetful of God, or irreverent in keeping His laws.
The Sabbath day should be kept holy if His bless-
ing is expected.  Moderation in all things should
be the motto of the Latter-day Saints.
     There are plenty of innocent recreations
for  the  body  and  the  mind,  and  they
are always within the reach of the young
people of Zion, and they have no need to min-
gle with an element that is opposite in its nature,
and would lead them downward; they should
beware of all such.  They should keep good com-
pany, and avoid evil influences as they would a 
loathsome disease, for it is far more to be dreaded.
Hearken to the counsel of those who are their

[column 3]
teachers and guides, and remember, that "obedi-
ence is better than sacrifice."  It is easy to wander
into by and forbidden paths, but hard to retrace
one's footsteps, and one seldom gets help to re-
turn, though allurements lay thick around when
following the delusive and gilded bait of pleasure;
whose votaries are ever ready to tempt the inex-
perienced and unsophisticated.  Never get an idea
that you must go here and there in search of hap-
piness.  It is more often found at home than
abroad.  The best friends you can possibly have,
and the truest,  are those who have watched
over you from earliest childhood.  Father and
mother are the ones whose counsel should be
heeded.  The disregard of parental government
and control, has been a prolific source of evil, and
there is an inclination among the young in the
present day to assert their rights and maintain the
dignity of "Young America."  It is a pity that,
Latterday Saints should indulge in such ideas;
but "'tis true and more's the pity true it is," and
moreover such sentiments are not in harmony with
the spirit of the Gospel.
     Melancholy, which is often the cause of this
mad pursuit of pleasure, is quite frequently caused
by idleness and luxury.  Occupation is the rem-
edy, work and love of work is a protection against
many evils.  It is said by Samuel Smiles of one
of the greatest men, "work might almost be said
to form a part of his religion."  In this Church it 
might be truly said our work should be a part of 
our religion.  Work, "is the best discipline of
character, for it involves the exercise of diligence,
attention, self-denial, judgment, tact, knowledge of 
and sympathy with others.  Such a discipline is
 productive of happiness."
     These are times to be appreciated in other ways
than pleasure-seeking; the days the old prophets
and patriarchs "looked forward to and sought, but
never found." There is and must necessarily be
important work to be done, and missions to fill
that will require almost superhuman faith and
heroism.  And how can this labor be accom-
plished unless by men and women of indomitable
energy, and sublime characters.  Not those who 
pander to popularity, and spend their time in the
vain search for happiness, and are moral cowards;
but are men and women of action, who have the
courage of their convictions, and who fortify
themselves with the cultivation of those attributes
that give strength and vigor to all their energies, 
physical, moral, and spiritual.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SOME delicious large ripe fruits have graced the
table of the editorial sanctum of the EXPONENT, 
recently; for which we tender grateful thanks to
Sisters Sutherland and Richards. 
	IMPROVED BLANKS for the Young Ladies' 
Associations are now ready and for sale at the
Deseret News Office in this City.  It is to be hoped
the Associations will obtain these new blanks for
current reports and thus make all reports uniform. 
	THE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE of the Relief
Society of this Stake of Zion, will be held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on Thursday,
Septembea 16th, at 10 a. m., and 2 p. m. The
President, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, would like to
see a good representation from each Ward in this
county. All those interested in the labors of these
benevolent organizations are cordially invited to
attend the meetings. 
	ON Friday, the Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake
will hold their Conference, in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, occupying the whole of
the day; and on Saturday, the Conference of the
Primary Associations of this Stake will be held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall.  Presidents of the
respective Associations should notify the children 
and parents, that there may be a good representa-
tion.


ON WEDNESDAY, August 18th, the P. A. of the 
Twentieth Ward held an annual meeting in the
ward house, Mrs. Mary Davis presiding. The
children rendered their exercises very creditaby.
Many visitors were present, among whom were
Sisters Ellen C. Clawson, Prest. P. A., this Stake
of Zion, and Lydia Ann Wells, her Counselor, 
Sister Emma Toone, Prest. P. A. of Twentieth
Ward, and Sister Presendia L. Kimball and Dr.
Ellen B. Ferguson, who each made brief remarks
suitable to the occasion. 
	UTAH'S Delegate to Congress, the Hon. John
T, Caine, returned to his home in this city, Sun-
day evening, returned to his home in this city, Sun-
day evening, August 29th, accompanied by his
wife and daughters Misses Florence and Martie
Caine. We congratulate Mr. Caine on the suc-
cessful efforts he has succeded in making to ward
off adverse legislation. We realize to some ex-
tent how arduous his labors have been, and trust
that here at home he may have the opportunity of
recruiting his strength and preparing himself for
the winter campaign. Mr. Caine deserves great
credit for his indefatigable labors and the vigilance
with which he has watched and guarded the inter-
ests of the Territory he has the honor to repre-
sent. We join with their many friends in welcom-
ing Mr. and Mrs. Caine and daughters to their
lovely mountain home, and trust they may fully
enjoy the short vacation here among their old 
friends and true.
	AUGUST 9th. ult., we had the pleasure of visit-
ing Union Ward in company with Sisters Pre-
sendia L. Kimball and M. Isabella Horne. It
was the occasion of the annual meeting of the
Relief Society of that place. We breakfasted on
our way at Sister M. A. Smarts, who, by the by, is
the Secretary of the Society, and a very ener-
getic and efficient one as well an active worker in
other directions in benevolent duties. Meeting
was held in the new ward meeting house, Mrs
Elizabeth Richards presiding. After the usual
exercises and the reading of the minutes of the
last annual meeting, the financial report of the
Society was read, and was highly creditable. The
President is in very feeble health, and both the
President and her Counselor are quite advanced in
years; yet by their works of benevolence they are
an illustrious example to the younger women.
	Sister Kimball addressed the congregation in
her usual tender and motherly manner, and spoke
eloquently of the work in the Logan Temple, and
particularly in reference to the work for the dead.
Sister Horne dwelt earnestly upon the duties of
the mothers in their homes, and also upon the
work of the sisters in the different labors and
organizations, and encouraged them to persevere
in well-doing, Remarks were made by others, and
altogether the meetings both in the forenoon and
afternoon were very interesting, and a good spirit
prevailed. Probably the Secretary may send
minutes of the meeting for publication.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DEATH OF A GOOD WOMAN. 

SISTER ELIZA M. LYMAN, A FORMER WIFE OF
	THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH, PASSES
			FROM THIS LIFE. 
					PROVO, March 8th, 1886. 
Editor Deseret News: 
	Many of your readers will be pained to learn of
the death of Sister Eliza M. Lyman, who departed
this life on the morning of the 2d, inst., at Oak
City, Millard County, U. T.  She was the eldest
daughter of Edward and Lydia Partridge, and
was born April 20th, 1820, at Painesville, Geauga
County, Ohio.  Her parents joined the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when she was
quite young.  This action changed the prospects
of her whole life.  From having been in easy cir-
cumstances before, her subsequent life was to be
one of privation and self sacrifice. Becoming


identified with the Saints in her youth, she was
early imbued with a love for the principles of the
Gospel and a reverence for truth and honesty. 
Having to suffer the privations incident to the
persecutions endured by the Saints in Missouri
and Illinois, she was deprived of those advan-
tages of education generally considered necessary 
to qualify a young woman to appear to advantage
in company; at the same time her inherent quali-
ties of modesty and good sense, coupled with a
studious disposition, enabled her to surmount ob-
stacles and gain sufficient book learning to become
a teacher, and she was able to appear to advan-
tage in the best society.  With no ostentation she
was generally self-possessed under all circum-
stances. 
	Although having filled honorable positions in
connection with the benevolent institutions among
the Saints, her life labor has been most appreci-
ated by her intimate friends and relatives. 
	She was one of the first to receive the doctrine
of celestial marriage, being taught that principle
by the Prophet Joseph Smith, to whom she was
married in 1843, by Apostle Heber C. Kimball. 
In those days it required considerable self-sacri-
fice as well as faith to enter into that order.  After
the death of the Prophet, Sister Eliza was married
to Apostle Amasa Lyman by whom she had five
children; three of them are now living.  Her son
Platte D. Lyman, was born in a wagon on the
Platte River, near Fort Laramie, while journeying
to the valleys of the mountains, the parents hav-
ing been driven out by mob violence with the rest
of the Saints from Nauvoo. 
	She accompanied her son P. D. Lyman, to San 
Juan, where he was sent to take charge of a com-
pany of settlers, having to make a road through
an almost impassable country in the winter time. 
The suffering and anxiety consequent upon that
journey, and the residence in the San Juan coun-
try where her son Joseph A. was shot in the knee
by a horse thief and lay helpless between life and
death for about a year; being surrounded by In-
dians, Utes on the one side and Navajos on the
other, no doubt served to break down a constitu-
tion by no means robust. 
	Upon the release of her son from the Presidency
of the San Juan Stake, she returned to her old
home in Oak City, where she appeared to feel un-
usually contended. Although enjoying the society
of the Saints and always rejoicing in the princi-
ples of the Gospel, her lot in life has not been an
easy one; but it has been one of self-sacrifice
almost from infancy, and she was never happier
than when ministering to the comforts of others. 
	If honesty of purpose and integrity to the prin-
ciples of the Gospel will insure a crown of celes-
tial glory, Sister Eliza will certainly receive one. 
	EDWARD PARTRIDGE.


RE-ORGANIZATION
OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE 17TH WARD, 
	MAY 18, 1886. 

	On account of the death of our loved Presi-
dent, Mrs. Marinda N. Hyde, we were obliged to 
re-organize. 
	Bishop John Tingey, with his Counselor A. E. 
Hyde, assisted by Mrs. M. I. Horne, effected the
following organization. 
	Mrs. B. W. Smith was chosen President, with 
Mrs. Julia Pack, as first and Mrs. Harriet A. 
Preston as second counselors.  The secretary and
treasurer remained the same as heretofore. 
	Bishop Tingey added his blessing and hoped
the new organization would be as united and
faithful as the old one had been. 
	LYDIA D. ALDER, Secretary. 

	P. S. The Bishop and his counselor also set
apart the President, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith
and her First Counselor Mrs. Julia Pack. Mrs. 
Harriet A. Preston, the Second Counselor, not


being present. Remarks were made by Sister M. I.
Horne and others suited to the occasion. At a 
subsequent meeting in consequence of the need
of assistance, Mrs Julia Howe, the treasurer, hav-
ing gone to England on a visit and Mrs. Lydia
Alder, the Secretary being detained at home in
delicate health, Mrs. Emma Bull was appointed
assistant secretary and treasurer pro tem.—Ed.


SELECT SCHOOL.

	On the 6th of September 1886, Dr. Godfrey
Hessel of this city intends opening a select school
for special branches of instruction, in classes at
No. 56 N., 2nd West St. His terms are for
two lessons a week, 4.00 a month in English
Grammar, Arithmetic, Geometry, Latan, German,
French, Italian, Spanish, Organ, Piano, Guitar
and Vocal Music. Private lessons in languages
$1,00 a lesson.  Music lessons at the residences
of pupils two lessons a week $6.00 a month.
	Mercantile Arithmetic, Correspondence and
Bookkeeping, Mondays Wednesdays and Fridays
from 8 to 9 p.m. $6.00 a month.	
Dr. Hessel seems thoroughly qualified for the
work so far as education and ability are con-
cerned. He is a member of the Church, having been
converted and embraced the Gospel in New York
City through the teachings of Brother Hart, Emi-
gration agent.  He is the author of some of the
articles in the Utah Journal that have attracted
considerable attention.  We wish him success in
his labors to instruct the youth of Zion.  There
may be a number of young people who cannot
devote sufficient time to study for attend the uni-
versity who might avail themselves of this oppor-
tunity of Dr. Hessel's select school or private
teaching.


RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES.

	Missionary and Indian donations are included
in charitable disbursments.
	Wheat is computed by bushels.
	Nothing is to be reported except under one or
other of the printed heads.
	If Real Estate increases in value this increase
must be shown in the receipts for the six months.
	Presidents and secretaries are requested to at-
tach full name and address to reports.
	Reports are hereafter to be sent to Dr. Romania
B. Pratt. Office over Godbe and Pitts drug store,
Salt Lake City, and they must be sent in promptly
by the 15th of September and if latter than the
20th of September they cannot be used.
				MRS. S. M. KIMBALL, Sec.
				ROMANIA B. PRATT, Asst. Sec


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

			HUNTSVILLE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	DEAR SISTER:—It is many years since we
reported our ward. We are in the tops of the
mountains enjoying the spirit of our religion
undisturbed by the outside world, and while
we enjoy this, we are not ignorant of the doings
of other places. We are well posted through
the columns of our little EXPONENT, which is
always a welcome visitor. Would it were
more widely circulated among our friends out-
side, as well as home.
	When we read of Mrs. Newman's extrava-
ganzas we feel, as ladies in Utah, if we had the
power to echo through the land, we would tell
the opposite, for we know the statements there-
in are false. We have lived in the world, and
have resided in Utah for over twenty years,
and can say that nowhere do children cry less
for bread. Women are not the down-trodden
creatures there spoken of; our organizations


are so beautifully arranged that no one need
suffer. Although fathers and brothers are im-
prisoned their families are provided for and
their children educated. True we do not have
many fine buildings with grand names written
upon them, but our poor are kindly cared for
at their homes. It takes a close observer to
investigate the institutions of the Latter-day
Saints. A few flying visits do not see them as
they are, but they must live here to see how 
our sisters work for them to sustain them with
their means. It is those who have passed 
through trying circumstances that can econo-
mize. I feel for the poor. Our people are
happy if they could be let alone; but there
must needs be an opposite to all things; we do
not fear, for we know God is on our side. We
are thankful that we have so many faithful sis-
ters, who can so ably defend our rights and 
the principles of our holy religion.
	We had a visit from our Stake Presidency,
Sister Jane S. Richards, Sister Hattie Brown
and Sister Emily Shurtliff, which made our
hearts glad. The comforting counsel they
gave the sisters will long be remembered. We
feel to say, "God bless them!" for we know they
have passed through many sorrows.
	Our Society is in a good condition financial-
ly, and we try to keep plenty of wheat on
hand, according to counsel, in case of want.
Our sisters sustain home manufacture first rate
Their persons are adorned pretty well with the
work of their own hands. We desire to live
according to the spirit of the times, so we can
be prepared for every emergency.
	We do not wish to impose upon your time
and space, but ask God to bless and give you
wisdom, and those who labor with you, that
our little paper may reach many honest
hearts, is the constant prayer of,
		Your sisters in the Gospel of Christ,
					ELIZA A. TRACY, Prest.
					EMMA BURROWS, Sec.
			BANNOCK STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Y. L. M. I.
A. was held in Rexburg Hall, the evening of 
August 21st, 1886. On the stand were Prest.
Bybee, Coun. May A. Ricks, Serretta Pool,
Sarah A. Barnes, Lizzie Roberts, Lizzie Rig-
by and the Secretary, Mary Alice Anderson,
also a number of the brethren.
	Conference opened by singing. Prayer was
offered by Prest R. S. Bybee. Singing. The
reports from the different branches were favor-
able.
	Coun. May A. Ricks spoke very encourag-
ingly to the young ladies, and gave some
excellent advice. Exhorted them to attend to
their meetings and secret prayers, and each
get a testimony for herself; also to avoid jeal-
ousy and backbiting, or they could not retain
the Spirit of God, be kind and gentle toward
each other, and avoid hurting each other's 
feelings unnecessarily. Asked the Lord to
bless all the young ladies in Bannock Stake
and help them to keep the commandments of
God.
	Sarah A. Barnes was pleased to see so many
of the  young girls present; earnestly advised 
them to study the Church works, and get a 
testimony for themselves. "We all have our
own salvation to work ont; no one can work it
out for us. We cannot expect a salvation, or 
to be exalted in the presence of our Heaven-
ly Father without we live for it. We should
not be content to live in idleness, but we
should have an aim in view and that should
be to be exalted in our Fathers' presence; and
what is there more lovely than to see a young
lady that is noble, pure and good and trying
to serve God. We should study and reflect,
for we can never be saved in our ignorance,
asked the Lord to help us do right."
	Serretta Pool gave the girls some excellent
advice, counseled the young girls to be neat

[column 2]
and lady-like in their appearance and actions,
also to use good language. Spoke in very
strong terms against banged hair, said we want
our young girls to be elevating and intelligent. 
When I see a girl wear bangs I think there is
something lacking; she is too light minded,
and earnestly advised the young girls to at-
tend to their meetings, if you do you
will make better girls, better wives,
better mothers. Improvement should be
our aim. We should obey and re-
spect those that are placed over us. We
should prepare ourselves to meet the Savior
for we can then make no excuse, it will be too
late, and don't talk about your brothers and
sisters even if you think they do deserve it.
	Brother Troup spoke a short time encourag-
ing the young to study good books and live so
they could discern right from wrong and good
from evil, and live every day so you will not
have to grieve over your past life. Exhorted the
young to keep the "word of wisdom," come
life or death.	Coun. J. Morris spoke very encouragingly 
to the young men, and young women and gave
them a key: Honor and obey those that are
placed over you, if all that were put in office
would magnify their calling, we would have
better reports. 
	Lizzy Roberts and Lizzy Rigby bore a
strong testimony to the truth of this work en-
couraged the girls to attend to their meetings.
Pres. R. L. Bybee in his remarks said you
have heard some excellent advice and counsel
try and remember it and put it in practice; you
should store your minds with useful knowledge,
said there is too much ignorance among the
young people. You should study and fit 
yourselves for future usefulness, for you can-
not be saved in ignorance. Conference ad-
journed for three months. Singing. "Great is
the Lord." Benediction by H. Pool.
		SUSIE P. LAWSON Prest.
		MARY A. RICKS Act. Prest.
		MARY ALICE ANDERSON, Act. Sec.
				BANNOCK STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Re-
lief Society was held in Rexburg
Hall. Aug. 11th 1886. On the stand.
were Mrs. Temperance Hinckely, Mrs. S. A.
Gunnel, Mrs. E. Paul, Mrs. A Rigby, and the
Secretary Mrs. S. A. Barnes. After Singing
and prayer and roll called minutes of the 
last conference were read and accepted.
	Rexburg Ward reported by President Ann
Rigby, Salem Ward by President M. Ward,
Lyman Ward by President Butler, Teton
Ward by President M. Donaldson, Parker
Ward by President P. Mason, Wilford Ward
President Brower, Lewisville Ward, President
Jardine, Rigby Ward, President A. Robbins,
Cleaveland Ward, President A. Browning,
Eagle Rock, President M. J. Hawkley.
	President Hinckley made some closing re-
marks. Singing "The Spirit of God like a 
fire is burning." Benediction by Coun. S. A.
Gunnel.
	Afternoon session: After the opening ex-
ercises Prest. Hinckley addressed the sisters
upon their duties in the Society. and the
training of children. Exhorted the mothers
to keep their children in at night and not let
their daughters go to railroad towns to work,
thought that a calico dress and a pure heart,
free from guile, was far preferable to the finest
apparel obtained at the sacrifice of virtue and
honor, and spoke in a forcible manner of the
necessity of cleanliness in the homes of the
Latter-day Saints; encouraged the sisters to
lay up grain for a day of famine.
	Coun. S. A. Gunnel said they had been
around and visited every place in the stake,
thought there was room for improvement, bore
a strong testimony to the truth of this work.
Every principle of this Gospel is true; we

[column 3]
should practice all, realized we were a blest 
people, exhorted the sisters to attend to their 
family and secret prayers, for prayer is the
key to the Kingdom of heaven.
	Mrs. S. A. Barnes exhorted the mothers to
spend more of their time in the educating of 
their children that God had blessed them with,
"for the Lord will hold us responsible if we
neglect the teaching of our children, for none
can be saved or exalted in ignorance. We
should all have an aim in view, and work to
the same."
	Mrs. Emma Paul encouraged all to pay
their tithing and be blessed. Exhorted all to
be prayerful and humble, for if one principle
is true all are true. We should all be true to
our covenants, true to each other, and true to
our God; thought we had heard some excellent
advice and counsel, hoped we would put the
same in practice in our daily life.
	Miss Ann Rigby bore a strong testimony to
the truth of the work we are engaged in, also
gave some excellent advice and counsel.
	Mrs. Martha Ward spoke very forcibly on
different subjects; exhorted the mothers to look
after, and take care of their daughters; asked
the Lord to bless all with a portion of his holy
spirit.
	Brother Troup thought we had had a first
rate time, felt well; encouraged the sisters to
press forward in the good work we are engaged
in.
	Closing remarks by May A. Ricks. Con-
ference adjourned for three months. Singing,
"Let Zion in her beauty rise." Benediction
by Mrs. Lizzie Roberts.
		MRS. TEMPERANCE HINCKLEY, Prest.
		MRS. SARAH A. BARNES, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Y. L. M. I. A. FAIR. 

	The Y. L. M. I. A. of Fillmore celebrated
pioneer day by holding a fair of useful and
ornamental articles, the proceeds to be given
to the Temple at Manti. Everything exhibited,
either for sale or decoration, was the work of
their own hands, many of the articles showing
great skill in the use of the needle and pencil,
as well as ability to manipulate the plastic wax
into beautiful bouquets of flowers and luscious
looking fruits. Among the useful articles were
several very pretty quilts, one, an album quilt,
being very handsome, each young lady having
worked a square or block, according to her
own taste, and also her own name, then form-
ing an autograph album and quilt combined,
which brought into the exchequer twenty-two
dollars and a half. A wreath of hair flowers,
from the heads of the fair young workers, was
brought in by the young people and presented
to their President, Mrs. Delilah Olsen, as a
mark of their appreciation of her uniform
kindness and energy in assisting them to pro-
gress in all things pertaining to their welfare,
both spiritual and temporal. The Primary
children contributed quite a large number of
articles, many of them showing great taste, and
proving how well and carefully they are being
instructed. One end of the large room was
set apart for the display of their work, and the
walls and table were very tastefully arranged
by their President, Mrs. Alice Collister. The
fair will add about ninety dollars to the build-
ing fund in money and goods. All articles not
sold were sent to Manti; among other things
was twenty-five yards of excellent carpet.
There was also a meeting in the school house,
where speeches were made, and singing, recita-
tions, etc., were indulged in, but the fair was
the great attraction. The weather was very
hot, and a plentiful supply of ice cream was
prepared for the thirsty visitors. The evening
closed with a ball in the Stake House, and al-
together a most enjoyable day was the result.
				M. A. GREENHALGH.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY OF PIONEER DAY
			IN THE COUNTRY. 

	The twenty fourth of July, 1886, was pleas-
antly celebrated by the people of the Teasdale
Ward. The meeting house was beautifully
decorated with pictures and mottoes, and with
wreaths and bouquets of flowers. Over the
stand was the photopraph of the late President
Brigham Young, and on either side were
arranged the pictures of the Salt Lake and St.
George Temples. An arch of vegetables,
fruits and flowers was placed beneath the
pictures with these words inscribed: "We
have met to-day to celebrate the anniversary
of the day the pioneers, with President Young
at the head, first entered Salt Lake Valley.
For thirty-nine years God has blest and pros-
pered His people in these valleys. Let none
forget to praise His high and holy name."
	Salutes were fired at day break by Captain
Lewis Adams and company. The flags, the
glorious stars and stripes, were raised at sun-
rise and floated gracefully on the air.
	At 10 a.m. the people assembled at the
meeting house to celebrate a day that will ever
live in the hearts of the people of Utah. The
choir sang, "Hark! Listen to the trumpeters," 
etc. Prayer was offered by the Chaplain.
Choir sang, "O my Father, Thou that dwellest," 
etc. The programme was then read by the
Marshal, David C. Adams, and was rendered
as follows: Interesting remarks by the orator
of the day, F. F. Noyes, Miss Mary E. Stewart.
Bishop George Coleman and others. Recita-
tions, songs, toasts, etc., were then rendered,
giving credit to all those who took part in
them. The choir then sang, "Hark! ye mor-
tals. Hist! be still. Benediction by the Chap-
lain. 
	At 1 o'clock p.m. tables  were spread and a
bouteous repast partaken of, and all enjoyed
the feast. At 3 p.m. dancing commenced for
the children, and at 7 p.m. dancing for the
adults. All retired with joyful hearts for the
peace enjoyed.
	Everything looks prosperous here, and the
people are rejoicing over the bounteous harvest
now at hand. Praying for the success of your
valuable paper, I remain, 
	Your sister in the cause of truth,
							ZELMIA.


LETTER

	FROM A FATHER TO HIS TWO SONS, THIR-
		TEEN AND FIFTEEN YEARS OLD,
			BORN IN POLYGAMY.

MY DEAR BOYS:
	I am truly thankful for the kind letters you
have sent me, and should have answered them
before, but father has seemed to have had
every minute of his time occupied. I get no
help from any one but your younger brother,
and he has not been strong for two weeks past.
I much wish he was with you a while.
	I am pleased to hear so good an account of
you from your mother; it is more to father to
hear that you are good boys, than to hear you
owned all the horses and cattle in Idaho or
Utah. I trust you are sample boys for telling
the truth, not using bad language, and for
kind, respectful obedience to your mother.
You know a person never builds a good house
to stand firm unless he puts a good foundation
in to start on.
	You boys are laying your foundations now
every day, and are forming habits that will
bring prosperity or misfortune as long as you
live—a person, for instance, if a story teller, it
hurts him for his whole life, or he gets the
habit of dropping his tools just where he uses
them, instead of having a place where he puts 
them when he has done using them, and know-
ing just where to put his hand upon them, night

[column 2]
or day. Many a man and his family have 
gone in poverty through a long worrying life
on account of this bad habit.
	Your Aunt Jerusalem has done as much
labor since I knew her in hunting for things as
all her other labor, and the worry has been 
worse than the work. I trust your mother has
educated you in regard to this. It is a $5,000
fortune to each of you to start life with. I 
want you boys to appreciate your chances in
life and be proud of them. If you reach
twenty-one years with thoroughly good habits,
with such morals as please God, you are rich
even if you don't own a dollar.
	Ranch men are often wicked—the last men
who ought to be so—God could send them a
thousand dollar colt as easy as a twenty-five
dollar one. My great desire is that my boys
may please God, and have His help in the
earth. Never do a thing you think to be
wrong. If you don't exactly know, don't do 
it. So will you give your conscience, or the
Spirit of God encouragement, and cherish it to
continue its help to you. Recollect that you
are children of God, literally, possessing in
miniature every attribute that is in Him, every
thing to enable you to become like Him. Let
your first highest ambition be to please Him
and develop these attributes by works of honor
and righteousness. Recollect, this world and
all in it are His, that of yourselves you cannot
even create a thought, and let humility, and
not pride, characterise your intercourse with
all people. The cheek, so glaringly the capital
of many men and women of this age, can
never push one's fortune to such solid and sure
fruition as God's blessing on the humble and
contrite spirit.
	From the reading of this letter resolve to
cherish, comfort and be obedient to your
mother, cheerfully, as a pleasure, as reflecting
more honor and blessing on you than her; do
this and I promise you prosperity in the earth.
Be "honor bright" to all your playmates; let
them feel that when "Hallie" and Hebe""
give their word it is as good as so much gold
in hand.
	Be saving, pains taking, and seek in your 
young years for the gift of salvation to dwell
in you as a gift, not only for yourselves, but
for your associates, that enlightened by it, your
eyes may see, and your ears hear evil before it
strikes you. Be slow to destroy anything;
teach your souls to save and build up; in every
prayer you make ask God for wisdom; never
 fail to offer thanks and show gratitude for the 
good you have; bear much before you com-
plain even a little; never cherish a complain-
ing spirit; always, everywhere in life, if you
open your hearts to look at the world as it is,
you will see that you have very much to be
thankful for.
	My dear boys, I did not think to write you
so long a letter, but I trust it will find place
in your souls, and that when we are permitted 
to meet again I shall have great joy.
			Your affectionate father.
	July 4th, 1886.


REORGANIZATION.

	On Wednesday, August 18th, a special meet-
ing of the Relief Society of Big Cottonwood 
Ward was held in the Ward meeting house,
commencing at 10 a. m., Mrs. Elizabeth How-
ard presiding. The morning session was de-
voted to speaking and giving general instruc-
tion. Prayer was offered by Sister E. Boyes; 
brief addresses were made by Sisters E. B.
Wells, E. S. Taylor, H. M. Whitney, M. Isa-
bella Horne and Elizabeth Howard. Benedic-
tion was pronounced by Sister Annette Chris-
tenson. At the afternoon session, Bishop D.
B. Brinton and Counselor Milo H. Andrus
and several others were present. Mrs. M. I.
Horne, President of the Relief Society of Salt


Lake Stake, presided over the meeting. Prayer
was offered by the Bishop. The first business
was the resignation of the President, Mrs. E.
Howard, who stated that her reasons for re-
signing the position were, that other cares and
duties required her attention and kept her
absent a considerable portion of her time, and
she felt it was not consistent for her to occupy 
a place, which had necessarily to be filled
almost wholly by one of her counselors, and
therefore she wished to resign; she had con-
sulted with the Bishop, who in consideration of
the circumstances had consented to accept her
resignation. Her resignation was then formally
accepted by the society, evidently with regret.
The Bishop nominated Mrs. Emily Stevenson
to fill the vacancy. Mrs. Elizabeth Boyes and
Mrs. Mary Anderson were chosen as her coun-
selors; Mrs. Hannah Stevenson was appointed
secretary and Mrs. Elizabeth Andrus treas-
urer. This completed the organization, and all
the officers were sustained by unanimous vote;
after which the former members of the Society
were voted in, and several new members came
forward and had their names enrolled and
were also accepted by vote. The Bishop, with
his Counselor and Elder Quist, set the Presi-
dent and other officers apart for the respective
office each had been called to fill. Very timely
and encouraging remarks were made by the 
Bishop, who seemed to fully appreciate the
labors of the sisters in the Ward. Suitable
instruction and motherly advice was also given
by President Horne, who had assisted the
Bishop in organizing, also by her Counselor,
E. S. Taylor.
	Brief remarks were made by the new Presi-
dent and an appointment given out for the
regular meeting, after which Counselor Milo
H. Andrus spoke for a short time, touching 
very feelingly upon the teachings of the moth-
ers. Singing, "Lord dismiss us with Thy 
blessing," etc. Prayer by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	The meetings were very interesting through-
out and a good feeling prevailed.


ATLANTIC MONTHLY FOR WOMAN
			SUFFRAGE.

	The September Atlantic contains a sweeping
indictment of "The Saloon in Politics," by
George Frederic Parsons. He asserts that
"the saloon has abolished party politics in our
largest cities, and that to-day in every such 
city the local government is vested in neither
party, but is in the hands of the saloon itself. 
Nominally, the government may be Demo-
cratic or Republican, but actually it is in com-
mission by a band of venal politicians who
have no convictions or principles, who
trade and swap opportunities for plunder with
each other who act as agents for the so-called
party leaders, but who acknowledge allegiance
only to the saloon."
	Our political situation is defined to be a
government controlled by 135,000 saloons and
8,000 wholesale liquor dealers, which absorbs
annually from seven to nine hundred million
dollars. These saloons, it is said, "have
fastened on us a shameful corruption, have
brutalized every institution, and have per-
verted and spoiled the democratic system,"
The sole remedy is declared to be the exten-
sion of suffrage to women. Mr. Parsons adds:—
	"Many men of sound capacity have won-
dered why the idea of woman suffrage has not 
made more progress in this country. The
usual explanation has been that the measure
is incompatible with 'practical politics,' and a
variety of minor objections have been raised
as that women 'know nothing of public ques-
tions,' that they are 'wanting in judgement,'
and so forth. When the fearful mess that men
have made of politics is impartially considered
it can scarcely be maintained soberly that
women, however inexperienced, could do much


[Column 1]
worse. It is, indeed, hardly possible to con-
ceive of worse being done by any kind of 
creatures. But there are obviously some things
now done by men which women could be
trusted not to do. For example, we may be
quite sure that they would not squander five
hundred million dollars a year in strong drink,
and then coolly ignore this extravagance, and
threaten to revolutionize the country on the
ground that they were not receiving their fair
share of the wealth they produced. They
would not, we may be confident, strike for
eight hours a day while permitting their hus-
bands to work sixteen. They would not, at
the week's end, spend seven-eighths of their
wages in the saloon,and then beat their hungry
and naked children instead of feeding and
clothing them. But when one thinks of the
suffering and misery which the saloon inflicts
upon women, the opposition it exhibits to
woman suffrage is perfectly intelligible. There
is nothing so cruel, nothing so brutal, nothing
so uncivilized, in American politics to-day, as
the dominance of the spirit which refuses a
voice in the government to that sex upon 
whose virtues, piety, and long suffering every
worthy hope of the nation depends. But the
difficulties of refusing this measure of justice
this logical and inevitable extension of the
democratic principle, become greater with
every tentative effort in the direction of a
broader suffrage. The proposition can no
longer be rejected on the ground that it is un-
tried. It has been tried, and wherever it has
had a fair trial it has produced satisfacroty re-
sults. Naturally, woman suffrage is hostile to
the saloon, whether in or out of politics. It is
to woman the serpent of Scripture. The an-
tagonism is fundamental. radical, inevitable. 
Woman stands for all the elevating influences
in this stage of existence. The home, the
family, the church, the school, all derive from 
her their best qualities, their highest capabili-
ties. The saloon stands for all that is retro-
gressive, destructive, debasing, vile and evil. 
It ruins the home, breaks up the family, un-
dermines religion,nullifies educational agencies,
checks intellectual and moral growth, fosters
brutality, coarseness, immorality, and dis-
honesty. Yet man, enlightened and civilized
as he thinks himself, cannot be persuaded to
trust his helpmate with even a share of the
government whose present abuses weigh so
heavily upon her; cannot believe that the
judgement and clear-sightedness which, if he
is candid and prudent, he is glad to avail him-
self of in private life would produce as bene-
ficient results when applied to the general con-
erns.
	“In this perversity the average man takes a
course eminently calculated to maintain the
supremacy of the saloon in politics. He shuts
himself out from the only zealous help he is
certain of. He deprives himself of the one
ally who is pledged, by nature as by condition,
to eternal war upon the rum power. It is 
scarecely necessary to point out that, if women
could vote, the saloon as an active force in
politics would speedily disappear. Therefore, 
we may be certain that so long as the saloon
holds the reins of power it will oppose all its
energies to the extension of the suffrage. This
is not, however,an additional argument against
the saloon. It is simply one of the conditions
of its existence." 
	If, as is asserted, the saloons really "stand
for all that is retrogressive, destructive, de-
basing, vile and evil," the question arises, Is it 
right to license them? The weakness of the
"anti-saloon" movement consists in the fact
that these establishments are licensed by the
State. Being authorized by law to manufac-
ture and sell, the dealers have a right to de-
mand recognition and respect. Mr. Partons
well says: 
	"The saloon having been permitted to attain 

[Column 2]
its present strength, having been recognized
as a perfectly legitimate institution, it has a
right to fight for its life, and it would certain-
ly do so, whether or not such a right could be
demonstrated. The point to be emphasized is
that the American people are themselves
mainly accountable, and that, while they may
take action to remove what has become a
gigantic abuse, they are not justified in de-
nouncing those who have profited by it as
though they acted throughout with popular 
sanction and scarcely tacit popular approval," 
	If this article has any practical significance, 
it advocates prohibition of the saloons, with
woman suffrage as a necessary means of mak-
ing the prohibition effective. We ourselves
advocate women suffrage on the higher ground 
of political justice and personal right. But
none the less we welcome this new and
progressive attitude of the Atlantic Mouthly.
So far as we . know, it is the first plea for
woman suffrage that has ever appeared in its
columns. We welcome the "new departure." 
—Woman's Journal 
					H. B. B.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SPECIAL NOTICE.

	Secretaries of the Relief Society of Salt
Lake Stake are particularly requested to send
in their reports to the Stake Secretary, Eliza-
beth Howard, by the first of September. Re-
ports sent in after that date will be useless.
Be definite in the financial statements.
Address, Elizabeth Howard, 60 East 4th South
St., Salt Lake City, Utah. By order,
	MRS. M. ISABELLA HORNE, 
	President.

	The secretaries of Y. L. M. I. A. of the 
different stakes will please prepare their semi-
annual reports and forward them as quickly as
possible, so that the Young Ladies' Associa-
tions may be creditably reported at the Oct.
conference. They must not be later than Sep-
tember 20.
		LOUIE M. WELLS,
		Sec. Central Board Y. L. M. I. A.

[Column 2]
﻿	ANNOUNCEMENT.

	The first term of Dr. Ellis R Shipp’s annual class in
Obstetrics will begin Oct. 1st, 1886.	
	Every effort has been made to place this school upon the
highest basis, and its educational facilities in this important
branch of medicine cannot be excelled.
	Liberal reduction in prices will be made to any branch
of Relief Society sending students.	
	Those who desire to attend should communicate at once
with Dr. E. R. Shipp either verbally or by letter in order
to procure books and make necessary arrangements. For
particulars send for circulars. Office No. 18 Main St. 
Salt Lake City. Telephone 383. 

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired ou short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1863.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies. 

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Orangeville, August 17th, 1886. Zina Lavenia,
infant daughter of Parker Adelbert and Josie E. Childs,
aged eleven months, of inflammation of the bowels and
congestion of the brain.
	Our sweet little rose bud has gone
		Where there is no sickness or pain;
	Sweet is the rest she'll enjoy
		Until we can see her again.

	Short was her stay on this earth,
		Dear to our hearts she had gown.
	Sad, oh, so sad, now to part!
		Lonely, indeed, is our home.

	But in God's goodness we trust.
		And now, in taking her home.
	Help us, dear Father, to say.
		"Thy will, not ours be done."
								S. A. FULLMER.

	
	DIED, at Mill Creek, Alice Maud Gunderson daughter
of Thomas and Harriet Gunderson born March 31st 1879.

	
	DIED, July 27th 1886 of Diptheria. She was a member 
of the Primary Association, ever willing to perform her
part, and a steady attendant when circumstances would
permit. 
	When her sorrowful mother asked what could be done
for her, she calmly answered—pray for me. Everything 
was done for her that could he done but she had to go.
	It is hard to part with those we love, but we know if we
remain faithful we shall meet them again. We feel to ac
knowledge the hand of the Lord in all things. We sin-
cerely sympathize with the ber[-]aved parents and friends.
			Your sister in the gospel,
								A. J. [---]TH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
