VOL. 15	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1886.	NO. 6.


RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED TO MRS.
			MARTHA NICHOLS

Of the New York Relief corps, who expressed herself in
	terms of deep sorrow at the prospect of there being
	within the sound of her voice "some woman patiently 
awaiting deliverance from her bondage."

There cometh a cry from the daughters of Utah,
	From women whose sorrows now stand at your door;
So kindly you've offered your loving protection,
	Oh, give them their rights and they'll ask nothing more.

The right to be honored as wives and as mothers,
	The right to protection in honor and truth;
The right they would crave as a boon above others,
	The right to the husbands and homes of their youth.

Then lest you should break down the bulwarks of freedom,
	And scatter the ashes on liberty's shrine,
Oh, give to the people what God has decreed them,
	The right of obedience to law that's divine.

Will you give them a right to a representation,
	The right to a voice where their cause may be heard,
The right of redress from the head of the nation—
	Award them the justice of one loving word?

They have spoken in love, they have spoken in patience,
	They have spoken in words that were tender and true;
They have spoken in actions of silent endurance,
	In love and esteem they are speaking to you.

Is your spirit oppressed with the chains of their bondage?
	Then into your heart they would earnestly plead;
Their husbands are wronged and their substance is squan-
		dered,
	Oh, say, will your voice for their woes intercede?

There are mothers we know, who are loving and tender,
	And wives whose devotion is loyal and true;
If woman should ask for a voice to defend her,
	We ask if that voice would be centered in you?

There are women whose hearts would resist the oppressor,
	Would sacrifice much for the objects they love;
To your sympathy seeking from wrongs to redress her,
	With kindest intentions your loyalty prove.

And give to the women, the "downtrod" of Zion,
	The right to stand forth in their honor and worth,
The husbands they love, and the sons they rely on,
	These gifts they would prize as the highest on earth.

				MARY J. TANNER.


[Column 1]

THE G. A. R. IN SAN FRANCISCO.

SOME THEATRICAL NOTES.

	We left the house about 9.30 a.m , the time
advertised for forming the procession, and
walked down to Van Ness Avenue—the finest
avenue, I think, in the city; it is so very wide
and has most beautiful residences.	*	*
The procession was very long, and much the
same from beginning to end, but withal quite
interesting. It was headed by the soldiers
from Presidio; I could not help noticing how
poorly drilled they seemed to be; their lines
were dreadfully uneven, and their behavior
anything but soldier-like. They laughed and
talked and turned around to look at the spec-
tators, and carried their guns in different ways,
and in all were much behind the company at
Fort Douglas when undergoing simple dress-
parade, and then compared with the German
forces, as I have seen them drill in Munich
and other cities, they seemed to lack every
thing belonging to the military. I wondered
if the veterans were not displeased with them,
and felt that with such disorderly soldiers the
Union would have a poor show for gaining

[Column 2]

victories, and I also thought, more than ever,
that Europeans were justified in ridiculing the
American army as they do. This is really not
exaggeration; I was astonished to see so little
order among the troops.
	The different banners carried by the de-
partments of the G. A. R. were very beautiful
and artistic, and each brought to mind some
thrilling event of the war. The march of the
veterans was quite touching, and they were
greeted with cheers, hats raised and handker-
chiefs waved as they passed along. Gen.
Logan was cheered more than any one else,
which surely must have been a great mistake,
that is if Col. Jones was among them; but you
see, as the "Salt Lake Herald" stated, he did
not wear a badge with his name on, and I al-
most fear the Californians were as ignorant as
the Utah people, but for fear he might take it
hard if he were not greeted joyously, Belle
and I waved our 'kerchiefs and smiled inces-
santly; I hope he saw us, for we can smile if we
do belong to the much-hated "Mormons," and
we smile whenever we think of poor Col. Jones,
who was treated so meanly by our citizens.
	There were very few colored men in the pro-
cession, but those few received loud and hearty
cheering, but the most interesting part of the
procession were the lines of aged men tenderly
and carefully carrying the old, faded and
tattered flags, that had done their service in
the war, and are now held among the greatest
treasures of the Union. The music was fine,
and all in all I believe it was a grand success,
though the city decorations are not so fine as
many expected they would be.
	Monday evening we all went to the Palace
to hear the band play and catch a glimpse of
the "Great Logan," in neither were we success-
ful, for the Gen. drove out of the court as
we walked in, and the band followed, but we
made a pleasant call on Mrs. Eldredge, and
had quite a nice time watching the great
throng of "fashionable women and brave men,"
to quote Gov. West, the fashionable must here
be substituted for beautiful—promenade the
splendidly lighted corridors.
	We saw Modjeska at the Baldwin in
"Mary Stuart;" she is, as ever, the most grace-
ful and perfect actress of her day.  Her voice
is soft and full, her accent slightly broken, her
costumes most exquisite, and above all, her
subject and fine elocution renders her the most
fascinating and charming "Mary Stuart" I
have ever seen, even though her face may not
be as beautiful as the most fair queen of Scot-
land.
	Last night we were all at the Bush Street
Theatre to see Margaret Mather's Juliet.
Most of the parts were very poorly sustained,
but Miss Mather was really very fine, though
nothing to compare with Adelaide Neilson.
		ANNIE.
	Annie U. [---]


[Column 1]
﻿REASONING ON MRS. NEWNAN'S
	STATEMENTS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In reading Mrs. Newman's petition, my
heart is filled with indignation at the falsehood
and injustice of her accusations. Many of her
statements are so ludicrous that I scarcely
know whether to laugh or get angry. Taken
as a whole it is hardly worth our notice, but
when we reflect that the world is ever ready to
believe, without reflection, the many wild and

[Column 2]
unreasonable things said of us, no matter how
absurd or ridiculous they may appear, I feel
that we ought not to pass it by in silence.
   Her position in regard to Brigham Young
is somewhat anomalous as is that taken
throughout, and when I undertake to define
her statements I find myself at a loss to gather
her meaning.
   I had always supposed that suffrage was
conferred on woman at the instigation of non-
Mormons. They said the women of Utah
were slaves; give them the suffrage and they
would soon throw off their shackles. But men
had confidence in the true and loyal hearts
that had stood by them in weal and woe. They
knew that woman would not be false to the
instincts of her nature, and sell the rights and
liberties of her friends and protectors. And
for what? For less than a mess of pottage.
	These men whom we sustain are our fathers,
our husbands and our sons. We stood side by
side with them in the struggle for subsistence,
when this Territory was a barren, desert wilder-
ness, when the howling wolves and the half
starved Indian tribes, who scarce bore the sem-
blance of humanity, were the only creatures
that could subsist in this barren and forbidding
region.
	We stood by them in a boasted land of free-
dom, while fiends in human shape murdered 
and plundered and sent us forth beneath the
chilling frosts of winter and the burning suns
of summer, homeless, friendless, hungry and
weary, battling with the necessities of hu-
manity, and bearing the scorn of the world.
And then because our natural intelligence
prompts us to follow the first law of nature, 
which is self-preservation, she taunts us with 
being slaves. If we are slaves, let us serve the
masters we love and who love us; bondage on 
such terms is tolerable.
	What does she offer us in exchange for our
chains?  She would brand us as harlots and
our children bastards, and then offer us the
poor, pitiful pity of the world. We know it,
and have felt it; God help us, we want it no
more! Brigham Young was not governor of
Utah when the suffrage was conferred on
woman, neither was he when the railroad
came here. She says truly that railroads are
great civilizers. The snort of the engine is the
bugle note of progress. We looked upon it as
such, and rejoiced that the highway of com-
merce was open at our doors. We rejoiced,
too, that people of intelligence could come
among us and see for themselves that we were
misrepresented and traduced. The spirit of
progress and the cultivation of the arts and
sciences would give the rising generation the
opportunities their intelligence demanded.
	When they built the highway across the
continent they found us a simple, a virtuous
and a progressive people, laboring to convert
this mountain region into homes, and making 
it attractive by the hum of industry and the
spirit of contentment. Driven from the con-
fines of civilization, we made [--] OASIS in the
desert, encouraged agriculture and manufac-
tures, made it possible for people to pass over
the highway to the land of gold. What was
there to encourage the settlement of these
valleys? What was there to sustain us in the
battle with hunger, privation and despair?
Faith in the God of Israel alone could do it.
A mining population would have starved; a
gold excitement would have ruined the county.
It takes wealth to open mines, and that we did


[Column 1]
not have. Our leaders were wise enough to
see and understand it, and bade us toil on, for
the soil alone could yield us support. In unity
was our strength, our hope, our safety, and by
unity we have accomplished one of the great-
est achievements of the nineteenth century,
and made it possible for the nation to build a 
road across the continent.
	Wherever a colony planted its footsteps and
erected a few huts to shelter them from the
inclemency of the seasons, there their feeble
efforts have been put forth to foster education,
and some man or woman possessing a knowl-
edge of books or a faculty for imparting in-
struction was employed to teach the children
the rudiments of education in the winter,
while the older boys labored in the field during
the summer months, yet the younger ones
were in school. One of the first requirements
of every settlement, after a few houses were
built for family use, was to build a house,
primitive it might be, but still it was a house,
where the children were iustructed through
the week in such branches of education as their
circumstances required, or could obtain, and on
Sunday it was used to instruct the Elders and
the people in the principles of the Gospel, and
to encourage them in the hope that God had
not yet forsaken them.
	Yes, strange though it may seem, to speak
of the mercies of a risen Redeemer, and rejoice
in the love that could lay down His life to
bring us back to the fold of God. We were 
called the offscouring of the world and the 
scum of creation, but such a conglomerate
could never have subsisted here. Intelligence
and heroism guided by an overruling Provi-
dence alone could make it possible to colonize
and cultivate these valleys.
	"The bugle note of progress sounded by the
snort of the engine," brought also the fester-
ing corruption of civilization, the rottenness
that is striking at the nation's core. The
damning argies of intemperance and debauch-
ery are condoned as the "common weakness of
humanity," and we are powerless to prevent it.
Must we stand by and see our sons led to ruin,
our daughters disgraced,cast aside and forsaken,
when some fairer fond one claims the fancy of
their seducers.  We are taunted as slaves, be-
cause we join heart and hand to protect our-
selves from the spoiler.
	The ballot in the hands of American citizens!
Are we not American citizens, and who should
hold the ballot if not those whose highest in-
terests are in the welfare of the country. She
quotes the act conferring suffrage on woman,
which reads:
	"Every woman of the age of twenty-one
years, who has resided in this Territory six
months next preceeding any general or special
election, born or naturalized in the United
States, or who is the wife, widow or daughter of
a native born or naturalized citizen of the
United States, shall be entitled to vote at any
election in this Territory." She says the
woman or girl that is not the wife, widow or
daughter of somebody is "anomolous." It
does not follow that every woman or girl is the
wife, widow or daughter of a native born or 
naturalized citizen.
	Under the law, as will be seen, women who
had not been six months in the Territory
could not vote or be registered. Every voter
must be registered. In order to register a 
woman must take oath that she is a native
born or naturalized citizen, over twenty-one
years;of age also that she has resided six months 
in the precinct in which she wishes to vote, and
no person can vote whose name is not on the
register list. If the proper requirements were
not complied with the election would be con-
tested.
	In the face of this she makes the assertion
that in two weeks preceding the first election
after the Edmunds law, two thousand aliens,
most of whom had habitually voted, their

[Column 2]
wives and children, as well, were naturalized
in the two district courts of Ogden and Salt
Lake City. She says, "The trains freighted
with recruits for Zion, which arrived a day or
two preceding elections were met at the depot
by Church officials. The emigrants were taken
to tithing headquarters." I believe that is a 
common custom, as they must be taken some-
where until homes are found for them. But
she further says, "Women and girls were then
and there selected by aspirants for sealing
orders, taken to the endowment house and the
marriage ceremony performed. On the morrow
these wives of "native born or naturalized
citizens," wholly ignorant of our language or
laws, or the significance of the franchise, with
the odor of the emigrant ship still upon their
clothing, were full fledged voters, and deposited
their ballots in full conformity with the statu-
tory requirements."
	In face of the law which she has quoted
this seems a strange statement, and, to put it
mildly, there must be a mistake somewhere. I
cannot reconcile my mind to such contradic-
tory assertions, especially as the Edmunds law
reads that a woman must not live with a man
who cohabits with more than one woman, and
the Commission adds, "in the marriage rela-
tion."
	This would seem to complicate things still
more. She says, "In case of a doubtful elec-
tion at a given point, re-enforcements were dis-
patched there from the new colony." Query;
Were they kept six months in the weak pre-
cinct previous to the election and properly
registered there. This would cause consider-
able inconvenience, and if their names were
not on the register the judges of election, who
are many of them non-Mormons, would be
obliged to refuse their vote, or the election 
would be contested.
	She quotes from Mrs. Stenhouse, whose
statements, she says, "are as reliable as truth
itself:" "I have often seen," says Mrs. Sten-
house, "one solitary man driving into the city
a whole wagon load of women of all ages
and sizes. They were going to the polls, and
their vote would be one." That is all right if
it is the right one, but that depends on who is
to be pleased. I wonder if the solitary man
was afraid of so many women. She further
says, "Many have voted two or three times."
There must have been something wrong in the
register, and as registrars were almost univer-
sally non-Mormons we cannot think that "men
christened their mules, conferring upon them
the names of men, and made them vote too."
While I would not for the world dispute the
lady's word, I cannot but think that the mules
must have had most excellent training. It
reflects, too, small credit on the judges and
clerks that they should not know mules from
men. Just imagine his muleship walking up
to the table and handing--no posting. Will
the good lady be kind enough to tell us just
how a mule would deposit his ballot, and if 
any of those present were endangered by his
heels?
	"Again and again has it been charged in the
public prints of Utah, by eye witnesses, and
unrefuted by the Mormon Church, that the
genealogies of the dead, the unborn and the
deceased had been represented at the ballot
box."
	The Mormon Church can afford to let peo-
ple use their own common sense sometimes in
regard to what they believe. Why did she
not say that the dead themselves came there
to vote. The Mormon Church would not have
 disputed it. It is well known by all who vote
 that persons must hand in their own ballots,
and give their names.
	If Mrs. Newman had ever voted she would
not be so extravagant on the subject. She re-
flects no great honor on the heads of the nation,

[Column 3]
when she presents them with such a conglomer-
ate of ignorance and misrepresentation.
	My article is already so long I must pass
over many things I would like to say, but
hope they will be taken up aud discussed by
some abler pen than mine.
					MARY J. TANNER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PLEASANT GATHERING AT UNION.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A number of the officers and members of 
the Relief Society and also the Young Ladies'
Association met at the residence of Sister
Mary A. Smart, to show our respect to her in
the shape of a surprise party, on Friday, July
9th.  While she was visiting at her step son's,
J. Z. Smart, the people gathered at her house
in her absence, and had the tables spread with
a sumptuous dinner.  When all was in readi-
ness she was sent for.  When she entered the
house she was completely overcome to see so 
many present, and she could not find words to 
express the gratitude and joy she felt on the
occasion.  There were present in all ninety
persons, and after all had partaken of a bounte-
ous repast, the afternoon was pleasantly spent.
There was a programme gotten up for the oc-
casion by the young ladies.  An address com-
posed was read by the Assistant Secretary,
S. A. Forbush, showing the esteem in which
Sister Smart is held by her sisters for her dili-
gence in her office as Secretary of the Relief
Society of this ward; after which Prest. Rich-
ards and Coun. Ann Griffiths and others con-
gratulated her, made many suitable remarks,
and presented her with numerous presents,
and also $17 in cash, in behalf of the two as-
sociations, Sister Smart being a live member of
the Y. L. A.
	Sister Smart expressed her gratitude to all
present for the good will and esteem shown her
to-day by the sisters and some of the brethren,
which she very much appreciated; felt that
she had had the prayers and confidence of the
Saints all through the sickness in her family,
five of her children being prostrated with the
typhoid fever.  She felt to acknowledge that
the hand of the Lord had been over them for
good, for had she been called upon to part
with some of them in the absence of her hus-
band, who is in exile, she felt the trial would
have been severe.  Felt grateful for the honor
and respect shown her, and made many other
excellent remarks, after which the time was
taken up with songs, recitations and remarks
from several of the teachers of the R. S. and
others present.  After spending several hours
very pleasantly, all returned to their homes,
feeling it would be a day long to be remem-
bered.
	S. A. FORBUSH, Ass't Secretary.


Patents have been granted to women, during
the week ending July 13, 1886, as follows:
     Mary E. Cole, Letts, Iowa, Sash-fastener.
     Sophia M. Fein, Cincinnatti, O., Doormat.
     Lizzie Hopkinson, Frankfort, Ind., Com-
bined embroidery-frame, easel, work-table and
desk.
     Lavenia D. Jones, Lafayette, Ind., Steam-
cooking utensil.
     Maria R. McClintock, Abbyville, Va., Coin-
holder.
     Katy Rumetsch, San Francisco, Cal., Key-
hole guard.
     Ellen D. Starr, Chittenango, N. Y, Ap-
pliance for setting writing copies.
     Isabella Yonart, Troy, O., Pastry board.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A LOVE SONG. 

O love, he said, if I might win
	Thy hand to clasp in mine alway,
O sweet the joy and strong my hopes,
	Though rough or hard should be life's way;
Thine eye should never miss my smile.
	Thy heart should never grieve a wrong,
Like light and warmth our lives should blend,
	Our language, one sweet, sacret song.

O words so sweet, how could they fail;
	They woke love's answer in her heart,
They made her present joyous, and
	Grew of her very life a part.
For her they lit the taper pure,
	That never dies while life endures,
And e'en became the star of hope
	That still her troubled heart assures.

For him, they died upon his lips
	As floweret's odors pass away.
But e'en as spring returning, wakes
	The flowers that sleep through winter's day;
O answer, by thy smile of love
	O lover! her true heart again,
And keep the vow that angels heard,
	For she is faithful now as then.

Fulfil thy troth, man may not break 
	So sacred bond at idle will,
Lest she a Saint in heaven stand
	Confronting thee and loving still! 
How shall thy changeful mind reply
	Her steadfast truth thou didst implore, 
For thou must meet it there and then, 
	Nor turn away, or falter more. 

		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


[Column 1]
	OPINIONS ABOUT VOTING.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	In reading the petition of Mrs. Angie F.
Newman, lately presented to the Honorable
Senate and House of Representatives in Con-
gress assembled, I was much struck with the
inaccuracy and falsehoods of which it is com-
posed; and it is a matter of astonishment to me
that a lady with the opportunities and intelli-
gence of Mrs. Newman should know so little
of  a subject upon which she professes herself
to be posted. Being myself one of the two
thousand who assembled in mass meeting to
protest against the invasion of our dearest and 
most sacred rights—I felt that it was eminently
proper that we should meet and protest; and 
whenever an effort is being made to rob us of 
that which is dearer than life—our liberty—
we will ever be found emphatically protesting
against such injustice.
	Mrs. Newman says, "Having a definite per-
sonal knowledge"—I am glad she added "of 
the Gentile sentiment touching this question"—
because had she made these assertions of herself
it would have been something worse than igno-
rance.
	Mrs. Newman claims to be a close observer
of the effect of female suffrage in Utah, yet
she admits that Gentile women rarely vote,
and it is from them she obtains her informa-
tion. Strange that they should affect to des-
pise the right of FRANCHISE, when so many
noble women are laboring so hard to attain it.
And because they do not choose to make use
of the ballot, when they have it to right their
wrongs, if they have any, is that any reason
why our rights should be taken away? Sup-
posing a party of men should refuse or neglect
to vote because some one else had the privilege,
would it be of any use for them to ask for 
legislation to take away the rights of others
who made a better use of it? I think not.
They would only be laughed at for their pains,
if not considered fit subjects for a lunatic
asylum, especially if they were found guilty of 
such consumnate nonsense as is to be found in
the petition of Mrs. Angie F. Newman grave-

[Column 2]
ly presented by Mr. Edmunds to the Honor-
able Senate and House of Representatives.
We are at the defiance of the world to prove
that the genealogies of the dead, the unborn
and the deceased have ever been represented
at the ballot box. It is simply too absurd for
people with good sense to pay any attention to.
We should much like to know,if any one can tell
us, when these women voted two or three times,
to which Mrs. Stenhouse refers and Mrs. New-
man quotes, that the solitary man was driving
in the wagon, and what their names were, man,
women, wagon and all. Creatures of the im-
aginatiou.
	I also am a close observer of the effect of
woman suffrage in Utah, and I positively affirm
that I have never known an instance of the
kind to take place; we have no occasion to re-
sort to trickery, we have always been the peo-
ple. Then those mules she speaks of, when
were they christened, and who performed the
ceremony? We do not believe in christening.
It must have been a curious sight to see them
vote; I wonder how they managed it. I have
 read of Balaam's ass speaking with a man's 
voice, but to see an educated mule vote would
be enough to consign the ass to the oblivion he
deserves. Surely the great law makers of our
beloved country are too wise to attach any im-
portance to such BOSH! Having exercised the
right of franchise for the last fifteen years, I
am in a situation to speak from personal knowl-
edge; I have voted for whom I pleased, and no
one has ever interfered with my rights in this
matter. It is a well known fact that the ballot
in Utah is secret, and there is no way to pre-
vent anyone voting as she chooses. Who ever
asserts the contrary makes a statement that is
not true. Dear to the heart of the women of
Utah is the right of suffrage, a right they will
ever use for the good of man and for the ele-
vation of our sister woman. Let Mrs. New-
man get all the appropriations from Congress
she can; let her spend her money where she
will; nobody will dispute her right to do so,
but let her learn to practice the grace of
charity, and respect the rights of others, for
she must know for "all these things she will be
brought to judgement."
				PHEBE C. YOUNG.


﻿ANNUAL REUNION.

	The meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
19th Ward was held at the ward meeting
house on Tuesday, July 20th, 1886. At six
p.m. a bounteous repast was served to all the
members and invited guests, in the wing of
the building. Three long tables were hand-
somely set and adorned with fragrant flowers.
All the delicacies of the season were there in
profusion, and the happy faces of the young
people added the greatest attraction to the oc-
casion. Meeting commenced about a quarter
to eight, and the large hall was well filled with
young people. On the stand, the President,
Mrs. Mary E. Irvine and her Counselors,
Bishop Watson, Elders Bywater and Fliesh-
man, and Sisters E. S. Taylor, E. B. Wells,
M. A. Freeze and Nellie Colebrook, Miss
Louie Wells, Mrs. Mc.Murrin and Mrs. Royal
B. Young, also Mrs. Ann Player, Counselor in
the Relief Society of that ward. A very ex-
cellent programme was rendered. The read-
ing of a manuscript paper was included, en-
titled, "The Progressive Journal." One article
in the paper was a correspondence between
Miss Emma Brown and Miss Ella Nebaker,
upon the subject of plural marriage. It con-
tained some strong points, and showed the
serious thought of the girls on the subject. A
biographical sketch of Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith was given verbally by Miss May Ridges,
which was very well done, and made a pleas-
ing variety. The singing by the girls was
another interesting feature of the evening's


exercises. Several of the sisters made suitable
and instructive remarks, encouraging the girls
to persevere, and urging them to be true to
principle and pure in thought, word and deed.
Bishop Watson spoke very feelingly, and in a 
spirit of kindliness gave the girls such advice
as a tender father would give to his own
daughters.
	Prest. Irvine made a few closing remarks,
manifesting the utmost interest in the spiritual
advancement of her precious charge. She is
well qualified to preside, and has succeeded in
gaining the love and esteem of the members of 
the association, and can therefore exercise a
greater influence for good. An excellent
spirit prevailed throughout the meeting.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The highest exercise of charity is charity to
the uncharitable.—John S. Buckminster.
	Faith is the root of all good works; a root
that produces nothing is dead—Bishop Wil-
son.
	I know no such thing as genius; genius is
nothing but labor and diligence.—W. Hogarth.
	Life and blessing will attend the man who
observes the Sabbath.  The Sabbath of rest is
a continued lesson to him to turn his eye from
all created objects, and look to that heavenly
rest into which God is entered, and which is
promised to man.—J. Milner.
	God loves to see His creatures happy; our
lawful delight is His: they know not God that
think to please Him with making themselves
miserable. The idolators thought it a fit
service for Baal to cut and lance themselves;
never any holy man looked for thanks from
the true God by wronging himself.—R. Hall.
	Children hunger perpetually for new ideas.
They will learn with pleasure from the lips of
parents what they deem it drudgery to study
in books; and, even if they have the misfortune
to be deprived of many educational advantages,
they will grow up intelligent if they enjoy in
childhood the privilege of listening daily to
the conversation of intelligent people. A
silent home is a dull place for young people—
a place from which they will escape if they can.
How much useful information, on the other
hand, is often given in pleasant conversation,
and what unconscious, but excellent mental
training is lively, social argument!—Ex.
	In the presence of a great sorrow, all petty
troubles disappear; but we are too ready to
take some cherished misery to our bosom, and
to pet it there. Very often it is the child of
our fancy; and forgetful of the many means of
happiness which lie within our reach, we in-
dulge this spoiled child of ours until it mas-
ters us. We shut the door against cheerful-
ness and surround ourselves with gloom. The
habit gives a coloring to our life. We grow
querulous, moody and unsympathetic. Our
conversation becomes full of regrets. We are
harsh in our judgment of others. We are un-
sociable, and think everybody else is so. We
make our breast a store house of pain, which
we inflict upon ourselves as well as others.
This disposition is encouraged by selfishness;
indeed, it is, for the most part selfishness un-
mingled without any admixture of sympathy
or consideration for the feelings of those about
us.—Smiles.


﻿The last Legislature of Washington Terri-
tory passed one act that has the approval of
all humane and decent people, viz.: requiring
that an insane woman en route to the asylum
must be accompanied by a woman attendant.
—New Northwest.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, n Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	AUGUST 15, 1886.


[Column 1]

SOME SALIENT POINTS.

	There are some very grave points atissue in the
"Mormon question," that it would be well for
Congress and the public generally, and in fact all
those who are uninformed upon this popular
theme to carefully consider ere they pronounce
judgment, lest, peradventure, they needlessly dis-
tress the innocent, and thereby bring condemna-
tion upon themselves, for they must be aware of
the Savior's words, "What measure ye mete it
shall be measured unto you again."
	First, consider the peculiarly trying circumstan-
ces under which this people left the borders of
civilization and migrated to the Rocky Mountain
region, a journey unparelleled in this age of the
world.  The perils, hardships, sickness and death
which marked the way, of which the most thrill-
ing narratives that ever touched the human heart
might be written.
	Second, the trials and difficulties endured by
the people, including women and children in the
early days of the settlement of these valleys,when
scarcity of food and clothing, combined with the
dangers to be encountered among Indians and
wild beasts made every day eventful in the history
of the people and the country.
	The incidents pertaining to the journeyings and
the sojournings of this people from the time they
left their homes in Nauvoo, until Salt Lake City
was founded and the desert lands subdued and
made fruitful, can never be written as they trans-
pired, and the bearing they have had upon the
hearts of the people it is impossible to tell.
	Third, the generation born and reared amidst
these peculiar conditions, which have stamped
themselves indelibly upon the character of the
children now grown to manhood and womanhood,
is another potent factor in the "Mormon" question,
and it may truthfully be said of them as of the
early New Englanders, "A new order of man-
hood appeared shaped by the dangers and diffi-
culties of the time." Certain it is that children
were born, and it is very awkward, at least at this
late date, to declare they had no right to be born, 
and having been born, and with characteristics as
strong and marked as the mountains that over-
shadow the valleys they love so well, with the re-
ligious elements of their natures so fully developed
and inheriting the settled convictions of the parents,
whose self-sacrifice is now an acknowledged fact,
are they not entitled to life, liberty and the bless-
ings of this free government? Are usurpers and
adventurers to take away their place and rights
of inheritance, socially and politically? Are they
to be disfranchised because of the religious senti-
ments of their parents, which has descended to
them as a right of dower and has become en-
grafted into their very lives?
	Fourth, what of the wives and mothers, who,
having obeyed the most sacred impulses of their
nature, the yearning for maternity, have entered
into conjugal relations, implicitly believing that
Congress could not legislate against a marriage
solemnized by a religious ceremony; and after
having spent all the best years of their lives in 

[Column 2]

domestic happiness with the father of their child-
ren, are, by the special laws made for "Mor-
mons," debarred of every privilege, of association
with the husband, except a bare support.
These women love their husbands as truly and as
loyally as any other women,and we say it fearlessly,
they are honorable, upright and God-fearing, judge
them ye who dare.
	But this is not all, there are young women (who
have our tenderest sympathy) the mothers of small
children, who have not passed through all the
stages of persecution that some older ones have
done, whose lives are only just begun, as it were,
who have entered into solemn and eternal coven-
ants, and whose hearts are bound up in the hus-
band's affection and devotion, even though others
have equal rights with themselves; these ties are
being severed with impunity by the cruel law made
to punish "Mormons;" these young and beautiful
women, these honored wives and devoted mothers,
are given no legal, no moral, no social status in
the discussions upon these questions. What will
be the condition of these heart-broken, suffering,
defenceless women? The husband is either in
prison, or he has left the country to avoid imprison-
ment, or he is under indictment, or in anticipation
of it, and is totally unable to give such attention
to his family as is positively necessary and morally
binding upon him, because of "the law." The
mother must care for and train the children ex-
clusively, while her own heart is being tortured
and her most tender feelings outraged, what will
be the consequences of such conditions upon
these young mothers and their offspring? And
who is to be accountable?
	One of the great writers of our time has said,
"All but felons have their legal rights;" these
people are not felons, and moreover, in the face
of all the world we affirm that a plural wife is not
a polygamist; and yet upon the wife does the
penalty of the Edmunds law fall heaviest.
	Can the Congress of the United States afford
to push these extreme and harsh measures, until
they have had every phase of this question ex-
amined thoroughly by honest, competent and un-
prejudiced persons?
	We appeal to the mothers in this fair land of free-
dom and religious liberty, who want good laws
and self-protection for their own sons and daugh-
ters whom they love so tenderly, to remember that
"Mormon" mothers have hearts as tender and true
as their own,and we ask them to pause ere they pro-
nounce judgment upon men and women who, for 
a religious principle they hold to be divine, have en-
tered into sacred and holy covenants,that are bind-
ing upon them for time and all eternity.
	Is there not sin enough in the world already,
without ruthlessly entering into the sacred sanctu-
ary of happy homes and breaking human hearts,
rending asunder that which God has joined to-
gether, the indissoluble ties of marital companion-
ship?
	These are a few plain statements, not embel-
lished, and they come from one who knows where-
of she speaks, one who loves the land of her
birth, and would not have its record soiled with
such outrages upon women and children as are
now being perpetrated upon those who are power-
less in the hands of wicked and unjust men, who
think all measures justifiable because their vic-
tims are "Mormons."
	Fathers and mothers,husband and wives, states-
men and philanthropists, as you expect justice at
that tribunal where we must all one day stand
upon our own merits, to be judged of the deeds
done in the body, mark well how you deal with
this oppressed and persecuted people, and espe-
cially with the young and inexperienced, and re-
member, it is for the practice of their religious
convictions that they are now arraigned and
brought before the courts—convictions as firm as
those which caused our forefathers to leave home
and native land, and seek shelter and refuge in an
unknown and unexplored wilderness.


ONE OF A SERIES OF LETTERS.

	UTAH PENITENTIARY July 1st, 1886.
TO MY FAMILY:
	Sometime has passed since I wrote you, and I
am something at a loss where to begin or what
would prove most interesting.
	There are some scenes in prison experience, oc-
curing now and then, which may be anything but
agreeable, yet even here, we find no cloud so per-
fectly enveloped in blackness, but it may bear a
bright and silver lining; no picture so dark and
sombre, but has some redeeming feature, some
bright and beautiful point which may be seen here
and there when very closely observed. This ob-
servation is truly applicable to us in our experi-
rence of prison life. I will relate some incidents
embracing the opposites—light and shade—seen
in the picture of life in the Utah Penitentiary. In
the first place I will mention an interesting occur-
rence which happened on the 20th of last month,
at an ovation given in honor of Brother Henry
Gale, on his liberation from the Penitentiary, hav-
ing served his term of imprisonment. The follow-
ing minutes describe the circumstance:
	In room No. 3 in the presence of some fifty-two
persons, at the conclusion of a short speech by
Brother Henry Gale, Brother Lorenzo Snow pre-
sented him a beautiful cane in the following
language:

MR. CHAIRMAN:
	"With your permission and that of this respect-
able and intelligent assembly, I beg the privilege
of addressing a few words to our esteemed friend
and fellow prisoner, Brother Henry Gale, and
presenting him a small present in behalf of his
many numerous friends whom I now have the
honor of representing.
	"This pretty cane, Brother Gale, which I here
hold in my hand, and which I have been author-
ized, by your friends to give you at this time, is a
substantial hickory stick, braided over with hair
in a very artistical and beautiful style, also em-
bracing the initials of your name.
	"I am requested to say that this beautiful
souvenir is given you in consideration of your
highly approved course of conduct, your quiet,
peaceable, uncomplaining, unaccusing spirit, your
amiable disposition manifested not only during
your severe and protracted illness, but during the
whole period of your incarceration; and we now
present this momento expressive of our kind feel-
ings and high esteem, together with the fond hope
that your health will so continue to improve, that
only a little time will elapse before you can dis-
pense with this cane as a support, and carry it
only as an ornament, out of respect to its donors,
like a young man in his prime and full bloom of
life."
		 HERBERT J. FOULGER, Sec.

	Many of our fellow prisoners and associates,
outside of the marriage relation, are suffering for
crimes of different shades, from the stealing of a
calf to that of the terrible crime of murdering
their fellow man. Some of these, and even the
last mentioned, who have been convicted of the
hightest crimes known to man, have shown that
they still possess some good and redeeming quali-
ties; one and all have exhibited kindness and re-
spect towards myself and the brethren. In some
cases, at least, their punishment seems severe and
cruel in the extreme. I listen now and then to a
few of their unhappy tales, which awaken feelings
of interest, sorrow and sympathy. One, a man of
some thirty years of age, while wandering in the
mountains, and in distress for food, killed a calf,
for which he was arrested, convicted and sen-
tenced to seven years imprisonment. An Indian
boy poisoned a man for having murdered his
father, and although he declares himself justified
in committing the act, the poor fellow is now serv-


ing sentence of perpetual life-imprisonment. A
young man has been sentenced for five years in
the Penitentiary for stealing a colt which he de-
clares was his own property.
	Now and then some scenes occur within these
gloomy precincts which, to say the least, are
rather sad and painful to witness. They general-
ly happen at the first interview between the hus-
band, wife and children. On first seeing the fond
husband and father issuing from his prison through
the ponderous iron grated door, his head closely
shaven, attired in convict garb, then and there
too often are heard the sighs of pain and anguish,
and bitter tears are seen coursing down the
cheeks of the grief-stricken wife and sorrowing
children.
	An incident is told that, the father on retiring
into the prison, at the close of an interview with
his family, while passing through the door, his
child cried out in a pleading voice, "Oh, papa!
come back, come with us, do come home with ma,
now, wont you pa?"
	Another instance: A little boy and his mother
standing upon the walls of our prison yard, while
looking down into the enclosure; suddenly the
little fellow espied his father, and spreading out
his little arms, cried out in the most beseeching
tones, "Oh, pa, come up here, O do come to me!"
It is quite easy to imagine and appreciate in such 
cases, the feelings of parents, by anybody not de-
void of sensibility.
	It is not uncommon,to see women come upon
the walls, stand a few moments gazing down upon 
the imprisoned inmates, then quickly depart with 
eyes overflowing with tears. One woman when 
looking from the walls, and first seeing her hus-
band dressed like a convict, fainted away, and had 
to be cared for by the Warden. Too many simi-
lar scenes, which occur here, could be told, but 
the above is sufficient to illustrate this class of 
prison experience. 
	While taking my accustomed exercise around
over the hard, beaten gravel path, lying along side
my prison walls, nine rounds of which are equal 
to a mile, I am not unfrequently reminded of the 
caged animals I have noticed in a menagerie, ever
tramping to and fro around the iron bars and 
wooden cage. However, there are some interest-
ing points in this enclosure, from which we secure 
fine views of the mountain summits, some clothed 
in their lively and beautiful vesture of charming 
green, while others are seen mantled and glisten-
ing in the sun's sparkling light of the pure, the 
white, the beautiful snow. As we gaze with 
rapturous delight upon the lovely scene, so grand 
and picturesque, we forget for the moment that 
we are convicts, torn from our families; our sacred 
liberties and divine rights wrenched from us by 
the fierce, unrelenting hand of cruel oppression.
But as we turn from this lovely and enchanting 
scene, we are quickly reminded of our situation,
as our eyes rest upon the dark and sombre walls, 
by which we are environed, and gaze upon the
iron bars of our prison, and away aloft we notice 
our Guards upon the watch towers, or treading to 
and fro upon the walls, armed with loaded guns,
while at the same time our ears are saluted with 
the heavy and clanging sounds of the ball and 
chain dragging wearily along the gravelly ground;
and then again when we notice ourselves dressed 
as convicts, we are brought to a full sense of our 
strange and peculiar condition. And yet, we feel 
that we are innocent of crime; that our motives 
have been pure, and consciences clear, and that 
during many long and weary years we have sacri-
ficed the enjoyment of love and happy homes, of 
loving wives and children, often jeopardizing our 
lives in order to engage in awakening people sit-
ting in darkness, from their sleep of death, and 
point them to the way of life, to our Father God, 
to the fountain of intelligence, to everlasting 
peace and exaltation. And notwithstanding we 
have been thrust into prison by the will and sanc-

[Column 2]
tion of the people in whose interests we have 
made many of these sacrifices, suffered these de-
privations, yet our intentions are still to labor for 
their good, and we feel that we cannot do it more 
successfully in any other way than we are now do-
ing, therefore we accept this class of Gospel 
labor, resignedly and cheerfully, knowing that the 
eyes of the world, of angels, the eyes of God,and 
the heavenly host are upon us; and the attention 
of the wicked, Lucifer and his host of evil spirits 
likewise are directed toward us, and they fear and 
tremble in view of the results from the maintain-
ance of our integrity, devotion and fixed resolu-
tion to honor our God, our holy religion, and 
priesthood, notwithstanding the forbidding pros-
pect of life long imprisonment. 
	Says the Prophet Isiah, "How beautiful upon 
the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth 
good tidings; that publisheth peace; that bringeth 
good tidings of good; that publisheth salvation; 
that saith unto Zion, thy God reigneth." And I 
will add: How beautiful to contemplate our 
Elders of Israel, in the Penitentiary of Utah; in 
the prison at Boise, Detroit and Michigan; 
though suffering a lingering martyrdom, yet smil-
ing in their sufferings, and rejoicing that they are 
accounted worthy to be thus persecuted, as were 
the ancient Saints for religious belief, for the love 
of God and testimony of Jesus. 
	There is one important sentiment entertained 
by our brethren here, regarding which, I believe 
there are no exceptions; I often hear it expressed,
viz., "That our confinement, as it regards our-
selves personally, we care not a fig; it is only our
families—their anxieties, and the inconveniences 
they suffer, that we care for, and which gives us 
uneasiness."
	I certainly feel proud of my noble associates;
High Priests, Seventies, of their devotion and 
heroism; willing martyrs for the glory of God; 
and I pray earnestly that I may be strengthened 
in heart and mind to accomplish my share of this 
peculiar Gospel labor, magnify my Apostolic 
Priesthood, and fail in no particular of doing 
whatever is required for promoting and sustaining 
the purposes of our Heavenly Father, in the in-
terest of His Church and people. 
			LORENZO SNOW.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

REMARKS AND STATEMENTS AN-
SWERED AND REFUTED,

As made by Mrs. Newman to the Senate Commit-
	tee of the United States, to procure means for
	anti-Mormon women, who are not of us, but
	have withdrawn from the Church of Jesus
	Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

	I am a plural wife of the late Honorable Orson
Pratt, and know the situation and affairs of my
family better than women abroad, having been
connected with the family alluded to since the
year 1845. I became acquainted with Mr. and
Mrs. Pratt in Nauvoo, and she gave me many
pressing invitations to visit her, and talked to me
freely on the principle of plural marriage, and it
seemed to be in full accord with her feelings that
I should accept Mr. Pratt as a husband. I be-
lieved the principle to be of divine origin, and in
its saving folds I enlisted for time and all eternity,
and if I am faithful to my husband and to my
covenants I shall go into his presence, and that
of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and all the holy
throng; of this I have no doubt.
	From the time Mr. Pratt took other wives, Mrs.
Pratt, the first, never knew want. The people
were driven out of Nauvoo in 1846; his other
wives lived with Mrs. Pratt and waited on her
through the journey to Winter Quarters, and
while there she was supplied with a barrel of
sugar, fine flour, hams and other necessaries, and
had her own carriage to ride there in. In 1847
Mr. Pratt came with the pioneers to this valley.
In 1848 Mr. and Mrs. Pratt went to England, and

[Column 2]

she took her children with her, and while there
her children were sent to a high school, and her
son Orson studied music, and is now a teacher
and professor. While there Mr. Pratt made con-
siderable means selling his publications. They
returned in three years to Salt Lake.
	Mr. Pratt was not worth $150,000, as Mrs.
Newman stated before the Senate Committee,
when he come to Utah, nor the twentieth part of
that amount. He had purchased everything to
make Mrs. Pratt and family comfortable—a piano
for Orson Jr. to play on, Brussels carpet, china
ware and furniture to correspond, and hired help
to wait on her hand and foot.
	When Johnson's army came here, and the
Church moved south, she said she loathed the
things she had around her, so plentiful had this
"fiend of a husband" provided for this "woman
of rare exceptional type," and this informer of
falsehoods about her husband, who was ever kind
and indulgent, only too much so, was her trouble. 
Mrs. Pratt always had his means to control, and
I should think a blush of shame would mantle her
cheeks, when she sees such romantic stuff in pub-
lic print as this Mrs. Newman hashed up to men
at the head of the nation—to Senators. I would
much rather "transfer a little yeast for flour" than
such adominable trash as Joseph Cook of Boston
receives on the Mormon question. As for this
Industrial Home, true Latter-day Saints have no
need of it; our time is all occupied; we do not
receive our support from our too much Christian
interferers. We positively will not accept proffered
aid at the hands of avowed enemies to God's law
and to His kingdom, that He has declared with
His own voice, He will set up and usher in the
fulness of times in this last dispensation. We
have a knowledge of these things, and no power
on earth can turn us aside. As for Mrs. Pratt
wanting to tear out the bricks out of the walls,
his other wives never lived in a brick house, and
she would have had to walk one mile to tear out
adobies from the walls of some of his other
wives' houses, and also thirty-five miles into the
country, as some of his family lived there on a
farm, and not many years after we came here, Mr.
and Mrs. Pratt moved south some 400 miles, to
St. George, with her family alone. Mr. Pratt was
devoted to the Gospel which he had embraced;
he went on a great many missions. He crossed
the sea sixteen times to carry the message of life
and salvation to other nations, and was faithful in
good works to the end of his days, as his writings
now show and testify of, and will give the lie to
his "fiendish actions;" he was also temperate in
all things, and a man of unselfish motives.
	It seems to displease our opposers that we vote
unitedly. When our candidate is a good man we
cast our vote for him. We are well acquainted
with his daily life, and if this man possess the
Spirit of the Lord, it makes him still the better.
Our motto is, "In God we put our trust." "United
we stand, divided we fall."
	We will just suppose a case. Suppose we try
to get into Mrs. N's peck measure; we would
stand head and body above it; we can't crouch in-
to so small a compass. And now if the world's 
people and the Christian women of the Methodist
Church have appropriation money to give to
women like Mrs. Pratt, who has several thousand 
dollars out at interest for her support, and leave
their own starving poor to suffer—mothers in their
own cities, towns and villiages under the influence
of liquor, starving children clinging to their torn
skirts, young girls, once fair and innocent, ruined
by unprincipled men, that gloat over their down-
fall, while they can move in fashionabale society.
among these very charitable ladies in the east—
why do so, but don't credit it to the relief of the
"dependent wives of the polygamists in Utah," for
none such will respond. Your state of society
we repudiate. We hold dear the virtue of our 
sons and daughters. The mothers of this com-


munity teach their sons that if they destroy the
character and fair name of the female sex they are
the greatest transgressors, and they lose their
good name and standing in the society of the Lat-
ter-day Saints. Why? Because man should be
woman's protector, and not her seducer. We are
now so surrounded by Gentile influence and out-
siders that we are afraid to trust our daughters
outside of home, or our children on the streets,
for now they often get insulted by men that are
not taught to walk in virtue's paths; now we have
to bar our doors against thieves. For many
years after we settled here we had no fear of the
seducer or thief. We left our doors and windows
open and walked through the streets in perfect
safety. No one was idle; all found employment.
To bring a barren waste into as high a state of
cultivation as our defamers find it, cost years of
toil and hard labor to its first settlers. Now men
and women with dilated eyes are ready to take
our hard earned blessings and appropriate it to
themselves. If there are persons who want to
leave Utah let their friends east fix them up a
home there among their own class. I should
think these wise Senators would wonder why
these righteous (?) people want so much to gather
to Utah and get our hard earned means into their
fingers. If they told the truth about us they
would not be so anxious to come here and live;
but they know where to feather their own nests.
They think by throwing dust into the eyes of
those who make the laws, that they will give them,
the minority, the full control of all moneys, and
they can persecute the majority to their soul's
hated content. "May not the Christian men and
women, may not the Federal officers be trusted
with $100,000?" For what? To sink this Territory
into debt, to live in their luxury and ease, to get
the power in their own hands, to tax the whole
people to support Gentile institutions, that the
people would not patronize. Could these hungey,
greedy creatures go into any other community
than Utah's people and be so barefaced? No;
they would not dare do as they do here. If we
were as mean as they say we are, we then could
not come up to their standard for meanness; we
do not try to rob them of their rights. It they
do not like us, will they please to stay the other
side of the great mountains and let us alone. The
government could well afford to give us Utah, for
we have earned it, and this people, they will find,
will be as "loyal" as any of her subjects. They
might afford to treat us as well as they do the
Indians, as long as they think we are not
fit to live among white folks. Let all these
fault finders have a place away from Utah. There
is plenty of barren waste country between Utah
and California. This is the view I take of the
"Mormon" question, and this is a good way to
solve it; let us alone to mind our own business.
We got along all right before they came here; we
made roads and bridges and improved the Terri-
tory without their help, and before railroads, min-
ing operations and moneyed men came here, and
if this raiding business was put an end to the
Territory would progress and build up much faster
and would be freer from crime. The law as it is
construed gives license to bad men and lets the
guilty go free.
	M. A. M. P.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM. 

	DIED, at Georgetown, Idaho, August 1st, 1886, 
while on a visit to her sister, Mrs. Fretwell, of
congestive chills, Mrs. Rhoda M. Carrington of
Salt Lake City, in the sixty-second year of her
age. 
	"In my Father's house are many mansions, were it not 
so, I would have told you." 
	"And He will wipe away the tears, for there is no sorrow
there." 
	Sister Carrington has been a faithful and active 
member of the Relief Society of the 17th Ward 

[Column 2]
from its organization, nearly nineteen years ago. 
She was one of the Board of Appraisers and a
Counselor to Mrs. Julia Pack, President of the
Visiting Committee. All these duties she faith-
fully discharged to the day of her death. 
	She was always thoughtful of and generous to
the poor, and gave freely of her means. Her
counsel was, "Let us look diligently after the poor
that their cries may not ascend against us." She
has borne many faithful testimonies of the truth
of the Gospel, and was desirous to be humble and
faithful to the end of her life. 
	Her death was unexpected to many, but we, 
with whom she was associated, could see how fast
she falled, and many times she has wept and asked
us to pray for her, for her trouble seemed more
than she could bear. As her friends, we assured
her that the Lord still loved her, and would over-
rule all her sorrows and troubles for her good. 
And in her death we feel that Father has been
merciful to her, in that He has taken her from this
weary world to a higher and better one. 
	She was the mother of fifteen children, nine of
whom have preceded her to the spirit world, 
three sons and three daughters remaining to 
mourn her loss. Often, in speaking of the
treasures she had laid away, she has said, "Thank
the Lord I have nine saved; I am sure of
those."
	In fancy I can see her with her nine darlings
around her, some of them babies all go glad that
mother has come to them at last, and can imagine
her joy now, in the labor to care for them, and
after a while to see them attain the full stature of
manhood and womanhood, one of the glorious
works of the millenium. What joy can be greater
than hers to-day? What reward more glorious
than that to which she is entitled? 
	A faithful wife, a fond mother, a true friend, 
what more can be said of a daughter of Eve? 
Yet her loving heart will yearn after those loved 
ones she has left here, and her happiness will be
complete only when they shall be re-united with
her.
	O then, each one knowing the love she bore
you, live so that the love of God will fill your
hearts, and that each setting sun you can think of
some kind word spoken, or some good deed done. 
May her children all live that not one jewel shall
be lost from her crown of motherhood; so that
she can thank God that all her treasures are
saved. 
	She was kind to her friends in affliction. She
came to me when that dreaded disease, nearly al-
ways fatal, took my baby from me, the first one
lost from the home nest. I always think of her 
kindness and cheerful words, though to me all 
was darkness and night. Her last acts were those
of love, nursing her friends, and standing by them, 
while the destroyer, blighted their hopes and
robbed them of a darling. 
	Her funeral was held at the family residence,
August 5th, 1886. Apostle J. H. Smith bore an 
excellent testimony to her faithfulness and worth, 
as also did Bishops Kesler and Tingey. The
choir rendered, "Rest on the hillside." A large
number of friends followed her remains to their 
last rest. Bro. Rodney Badger dedicated the
spot, and we left all that was mortal of Sister
Carrington to await the resurrection of the just. 
				LYDIA D. ALDER. 
Salt Lake City, Aug. 11, 1886.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Concluded.)

	Tuesday the 26th, rather cold and cloudy 
weather. We arose early this morning and
[-]ot started at sunrise. Proceeding 9 miles

[Column 2]

we forded a large tributary of the "Loop Fork,"
about eight rods in width, ascending a hill we
now passed the old Pawnee village, opposite
our old fording place. Going a mile further
we passed a missionary station, consisting
of five or six buildings, that had been built
since we were here before.
	It was now entirely deserted, the Sioux hav-
ing paid it a visit about the last of June when
they tore down the fences enclosing the houses,
demolished the doors, stove in the heads of
flour barrels, and scattered their contents on
the ground and destroyed other property in
divers ways.	*	*	After leaving this
behind we went on a mile further and en-
camped at 2 p.m. near the Old Missionary
station where we encamped on our journey out
having come thirteen miles to-day. In an ad-
jacent cornfield we put our horses where we
gleaned considerable corn that had not been
gathered. Some of the brethren also got
quite a quantity to eat; near the field there was
quite a large patch of oats, which our Ameri-
can horses devoured quite greedily, though the
Indian horses did not care so much about it.
To-day Brother Kimball let me have his
Prince horse to work before my wagon in the
place of John Buchanan's."
	The rest of the journey they found nothing
but cottonwood for their horses to feed upon
and in some places a scarcity of that.
	Friday evening near their camp ground
they found a "liberty pole" raised by P. P.
Pratt, and John Taylor on this journey out.
	Saturday the 30th, after traveling 12 miles
they came to the "Elk Horn River," which
they forded, and "after proceeding a mile
down the stream they encamped at 2 p.m. on
its banks in a large grove of cottonwood hav-
ing come about 13 miles that day. "This
steam was very high so that we were
obliged to elevate our wagon beds before cross-
ing it. Immediately after we were encamped
the brethren were called together in the centre
of the ring, where President Young said that
he wished to know who wanted to go ahead
to Winter Quarters to-night, and if there were
any such to arise; none, however, did. An ex-
pression was then taken whether we should
all remain in a body, horsemen and all, and
go into town together or otherwise; which re-
sulted in the affirmation. President Young
and Brother Kimball then spoke briefly, stat-
ing that they were satisfied with the conduct
of the Pioneers during the journey of the past
season, and soon after we were dismissed with
the injunction to provide plenty of cottonwood
for our horses during the night.
	They arrived home early the evening follow-
ing, Sunday, October 31st. When within a
mile or so of Winter Quarters "a halt was
called, the company was drawn up in order,
and addressed by President Young who then
dismissed the pioneer camp with his blessing."
Many of the brethren and sisters went out to
meet them. They drove into town in order
and the streets were lined with men, women
and children to welcome them "home again."
	When we saw them safe back our joy was
equal to our sorrows. We could doubly real-
ize why the Lord had so moved upon us to fast
and pray, uniting our faith as one in their be-
half, as well as for ourselves during their ab-
sence; and that it had been nothing less than
miraculous that so many were preserved to
meet again, saying nothing of the prosperity
which had attended us. Many of our people
had previously turned their attention to the
manufacturing of various articles, such as
willow baskets, washboards, half bushels, etc.
which they sold to help themselves to a living
and preparing for their journey the coming
spring.
	No picture of despair had been visible, nor
were there any doubts entertained of the ac-
complishment of the journey laying before us,


and the building up of Zion in the valleys of
the Rocky Mountains. The hand of God had
been visible in every trial and to those who
sought Him He was ever near.
	I will now say to my kind friends and all
who have taken an interest in the historical
sketches which I have gathered up that the
changes which have come to me since I began
this pleasant duty, the increase of care and
responsibilities thrown upon me through the
death of my husband, with various duties
which require my attention, I must resign this
one at least at the present, as I find it difficult
to devote the amount of time and thought
which it requires and attend to the tasks in-
cumbent upon me. But I do so with the hope
that it will be taken up by some one of our
sisters who has more time at her command, as
well as ability to do it justice. There are many
unwritten incidents which could be related
with profit, and prove interesting reading to
those who pioneered across the barren, track-
less wastes of the Great American Desert to
these once lone and dreary vales of the Rocky
Mountains, as well as scores who are not of
that number and even many strangers would
enjoy reading of those early scenes among the
"Mormons." Had I not received this assur-
ance from different quarters in these valleys as
well as from outsiders, accompanied with urg-
ent requests to continue these sketches, I should
have long since yielded to private feelings and
discontinued them. I mention this as a stimu-
lus to prompt others to write and give to the
world the benefit of their travels and experi-
ence with this people, who are so grossly mis-
understood and misjudged by the world gener-
ally. For every one of us have a mission upon
this earth, and it is only the willing hands and
hearts, and those who will sacrifice self to the
good of others that will gain an everlasting
triumph, and be crowned to reign throughout
the glorious eternities to come.
	As a closing testimony that a supreme power
preserved this people though they seemed for-
saken and driven out into the wilderness, I
extract one or two paragraphs from a letter
addressed by the Presidency at Winter Quar-
ters to "Elder Hyde, Pratt and Taylor" then
on a mission to England. The following lit-
tle incident occurred in Lee County, Iowa,
while the Saints were encamped, and many
laying sick and destitute on the shore of the
Mississippi in the month of September 1846,
and seemingly starvation staring them in the
face. Flocks of quails "lit upon their wagons
and on their beds, and upon their empty
tables, and the ground within their reach,
which the Saints caught with their hands un-
til they were satisfied and their breakfast and
dinner was full."
	"Not only the Saints saw this but the world.
A steam boat was passing during part of the
time, within six rods and the passengers mar-
veled at the sight, others in the camp, not of us,
wondered also. The occurrence continued
through the day and followed the camp when
they started from the river."
	Tell this to the nations of the earth! tell it to
the kings and nobles and the great ones!! tell
ye this to those who believe that God who fed 
the children of Israel in the wilderness in the
days of Moses, that they may know that there
is a God in these last days and that His peo-
ple are as dear to him now as they were in
those days, and that he will feed them, when
the power of the oppressor is unbearable, and
he is acknowledged God of the whole earth,
and every tongue confesses that Jesus is the
Christ."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS. 

	DAVIS STAKE. 

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Davis Stake was held at Kaysville, 

[Column 2]
July 30th, Sister Susan Grant presiding. 
Meeting commenced at 10 o'clock. Singing, 
"O God be praised." Prayer by Sister Sarah
B. Layton. Singing, "May we who know the
joyful sound." There were present from Salt
Lake City, Sisters E. Howard and E. B. Wells. 
The minutes of the previous conference were
read and accepted. The reports from the
different branches of the Relief Society were
also read. Prest. Susan Grant said that she
with her counselors had visited all the different
branches in the Stake; gave a very satisfactory
report of each branch. 
	Sister E. B. Wells then gave us a brief ac-
count of some of the things she saw while in
the East, and at New York and Washington
in particular; also exhorted the sisters to be
diligent in teaching their children the princi-
ples of the Gospel. 
	Sister Mary S. Clark expressed her thanks
for the privilege of meeting once more in the
capacity of a conference; urged the sisters to
seek for the Spirit of God and live in a way to
claim His blessing. Meeting adjourned until
2 p.m. Benediction by Prest. Susan Grant. 
	Meeting convened again at 2 p.m. After 
the opening exercises, Sister E. Howard, Coun.
Lucinda Brown and E. B. Wells addressed
the sisters. Spoke at some length upon mothers
governing their children, and also to try and
induce our daughters to dress in a manner
that would be conducive to health. 
	Conference adjourned for three months. 
Singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire is 
burning." Benediction by Phebe Atkinson.
			RHODA HINMAN, 
	Secretary Davis Stake R. S. 

	BEAR LAKE STAKE. 

	Minutes of the Sixteenth Semi-annual Con-
ference of the Relief Society of the Bear
Lake Stake, held in St. Charles, July 17th and
18th, 1886, Prest. Julia P. Lindsay presiding. 
Saturday, 10 a.m. Singing, "Improve the
shining moments." Prayer by Elder Wm. M.
Allred. Singing, "Marching Homeward." 
Roll called for Stake officers and presidents of
Relief Society. 
	Prest. Lindsay was very happy to meet with
the sisters in conference, and to see so many
present; also felt thankful for the good health 
of the people, and for our favorable surround-
ings. The Presidents of the different branches
of the Relief Society, who were present, each
reported her respective society.
	Coun. Elizabeth Collings said, "This is the
place to give and receive instructions." Was
sorry to find so many presidents absent. "If 
they cannot attend they should send some one,
or a written report." Advised all to refrain
from speaking evil of their neighbors, and
avoid everything of an unbecoming nature
that would lower us in the sight of God. 
	Prest. Annie Laker said, "We enjoy great
privileges, and can do much good if we are 
willing. Each one should attend to the work
asigned her. We must labor diligently if we
desire the blessings in store for the faithful. 
Mothers need the assistance of the Almighty in
rearing their children in His fear." 
	The statistical and financial report was read
by the Secretary, after which Prest. Lindsay
spoke at some length on the duties of presi-
dents of R. S. Was pleased to learn that the
sisters had stored so much grain. "We should
work unitedly for the advancement of God's 
work. Let us learn our duties and then de-
vote our energies to the performance of
them." Choir sang, "Beautiful Day." Bene-
diction by Elder B. H. Allred.
	Sunday, July 18th, 1886, 2 p.m., Prest. J. 
P. Lindsay presiding. Choir sang, "To Thee, 
O God, do we approach," etc. Prayer by
Elder Wm. M. Allred. Singing, "If human 
kindness meets return," etc. The sacrament
was administered, after which Prest. Lindsay

[Column 3]
said she was pleased to behold so many cheer-
ful faces, they were so near and dear to her. 
"It is quite a task for those sisters who are ad-
vanced in years to take upon themselves the
public duties and responsibilities that have
fallen to their lot, but God can strengthen us
for all our duties and aid us by His mighty
power. The presidents of R. S. are requested
by Prest. Budge to use their influence in get-
ting what means they can to assist in build-
ing the Stake Tabernacle." 
	Sister Nancy E. Pugmire said, "It is our
duty to attend our meetings, that we may be
instructed in our various duties. Purity and
virtue will bring happiness." Spoke of Solo-
mon and his testimony, after having enjoyed
the riches of this world; he said, "All is vanity
and vexation of spirit." 
	Mrs. Dr. Gray who came recommended by
Prest. Budge, was introduced to the audience. 
	Coun. L. M. Hart spoke of our responsibili-
ties as Latter-day Saints. "We should be 
kind and charitable to each other. Try to
live to enjoy the Spirit of God. We should 
not procrastinate our duties, but rather per-
form them to-day." 
	Bishop J. A. Hunt was gratified with the
conference. "One object of the R. S. is to be
a help to the bishops. The sisters should pay
their tithing and use their influence with the
brethren to pay theirs, then they can claim the
blessings promised to tithe-payers." 
	Prest. Lindsay thanked the Bishop and all
who had assisted in making the house so com-
fortable; also the choir for their sweet music. 
Recommended Dr. Gray. 
	Conference adjourned for six months. Choir
sang, "Rejoice, rejoice in the Lord." Benedic-
tion by Bishop J. A. Hunt. 
	ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Sec., 
	NANCY HUNT, Ass't Sec. 

	UTAH STAKE. 

	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Utah Stake, held in the
meeting house, Provo City, June 25th, 1886,
Prest. Mary John presiding, assisted by her
Counselors, Emily G. Cluff and Marilla M.
Daniels. Conference opened with the usual
exercises. Minutes of former conference read
and approved. 
	Prest. Mary John felt pleased to meet again 
in a conference capacity under so favorable
circumstances. Exhorted the sisters to a faith-
fulness of their duties, and to cultivate the
spirit of the Lord continually to enable them
to discharge every duty placed upon them. 
	The presidents of the different branches of
the Relief Society of Utah County gave 
verbal reports of the several branches over
which they presided. 
	Sister Hyde gave an encouraging report of
the Sanpete Stake Relief Society. 
	Sister Rachel Grant said, "We are passing
through many trials; let us cultivate the Spirit
of the Lord to enable us to pass through these
trials. Make it a study to put from us all
that is displeasing in the sight of our Heaven-
ly Father." She had been blessed in striving
to perform her duties. "Let us respond to the
calls made upon us, however weak we may
feel. Seek to have charity towards one
another." Bore a strong testimony to the
truth of celestial marriage, etc. 
	Sister E. B. Wells, the next speaker, had
seen considerable of the ways of the world. 
Spoke of the sad condition existing therein, 
and of the degeneration in its midst. Had an
interview with Miss Cleveland; explained the
principles of our faith to her; spoke at length
of the principle of plural marriage. "We 
are a blest people, an independent people in
many ways." Referred to the manufacturing
of our own silk, and thereby carrying out the
counsels that have been given, etc, Confer-
ence adjourned till 2 p.m.


Afternoon session opened with the usual
exercises. A written report of the treasurer
of the silk association was read. This organiza-
tion has been a very active one; the late Presi-
dent, Mrs. H. A. Beebe (now deceased) was an
untiring laborer in this interest. At present
the association has no president, but the sisters
are anxious to continue their efforts in silk
culture. Sister Agnes Douglas, of Payson,
made some appropriate remarks on the subject.
	Sister Lucy B. Young, who had recently
returned from the Sandwich Islands
gave an interesting account of her trip, and of
the manner in which meetings were conducted
among the natives, and other matters connected
with their life on the Islands.
	Remarks were made by Sister B. J. Sim-
mons of Payson, which were good and instruc-
tive, and by Sister E. B. Wells. Father
Graves also made remarks in the silk interests.
	Prest, Mary John felt we had had a good
time. "The Spirit of the Lord has been with
us." Desired that an interest be taken in re-
gard to silk raising. "I pray that the blessing
of the Lord may rest upon us. There are
bright days ahead for the Latter-day Saints."
After singing, "Lord, dismiss us with Thy
blessing," conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Anna K. Smoot.
		JANE P. JONES, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TWO MEETINGS AT SANDY.

	On Tuesday morning, July 26th, Sisters M.
I. Horne, B. W. Smith and E. B. Wells visited
Sandy, to attend the sisters' meetings.
	The annual meeting of the Relief Society
was held at 10 a.m., Mrs. Wilhelmina Olsen
presiding. Minutes and report for the year
were read and accepted. The meeting was
addressed by Sisters Smith, Wells and Horne
on the various duties of the sisters, and the
condition of affairs at the present time. Prest.
Olsen made some appropriate remarks, and
Bishop Holman addressed the meeting for a
few minutes, expressing his interest in the pro-
ceedings. Benediction by the Bishop.
	In the afternoon the children assembled in
the Primary Association, and after some very
sweet singing, and prayer, the following pro-
gramme was given:
	Bro. James Brown and daughters, a song;
Recitation, William Lewis; Recitation, Rachel
Brown; Recitation, Dora Castle; Recitation,
Lottie Castle; Select Reading, Mary Alsop;
Song, Emma Bowen; Recitation, Annie Oster-
mann; Recitation, Betsey Geltea; Dialogue,
Dora Castle and Nettie Labrum; Recitation,
Elizabeth Brown; Recitation, Robert Scott;
Song, Bro. Brown and daughters.  After this
the sisters from the city addressed the child-
ren.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Upon her ascension to the throne, Queen
Victoria appointed a Hebrew, Sir Moses Monte-
fiore, as sheriff of London, and now at the
beginning of the fiftieth year of her reign,
another, Alderman Isaacs, has been appointed
to the same office.
	The Youngstown (Ohio) Telegram makes
the following comment on the minority report
of the Judiciary Committee of the United
States House of Representatives, recently
made by Judge Taylor, of Ohio: "Judge
Taylor has formerly indicated to Congress and
the country that he is in favor of woman suff-
rage. The position he takes is creditable to
his intelligence, and entirely consistent with
the breadth and equity that characterize his
views upon all public questions.	*	*
It is a clean, strong, public issue, deserving of
consideration by every friend of progress. The


women who are unceasingly working for the
privilege of the ballot are pure, highminded
reformers, almost all of whom are prominently
identified with other movements having for
their object the social and moral welfare of hu-
manity. The men who from time to time de-
clare themselves in sympathy with the cause
are among the finest-grained in public affairs.
There is no honest reason why women should
not be accorded the franchise. The petty
tyranny which deprives them of it is a relic of
barbarism."


[Column 1]
SPECIAL NOTICE. 

	Secretaries of the Relief Society of Salt
Lake Stake are particularly requested to send
in their reports to the Stake Secretary, Eliza-
beth Howard, by the first of September. Re-
ports sent in after that date will be useless. 
Be definite in the financial statements. 
Address, Elizabeth Howard, 60 East 4th South
St., Salt Lake City, Utah. By order,
		MRS. M. ISABELLA HORNE,
							President. 

	The secretaries of Y. L. M. I. A. of the
different stakes will please prepare their semi-
annual reports and forward them as quickly as
possible, so that the Young Ladies' Associa-
tions may be creditably reported at the Oct. 
conference. They must not be later than Sep-
tember 20. 
			LOUIE M. WELLS, 
		Sec. Central Board Y. L. M. I. A. 

[Column 2]
F. Auerbach & Bro. 
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY. 
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
[pointing hand icon] CALL AND EXAMINE. 

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
[pointing hand icon] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to. 
[pointing hand icon] Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT
LAKE CITY. 

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE, 
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, 
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 
[pointing hand icon] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt. 

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUSHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS. 
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118, East Temple Street.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	The juice of a lemon in a glass of sweetened hot water
is an excellent remedy for colds.
	At the carver's place spread a white napkin, the point to-
ward the middle of the table, to protect the cloth from
splashes of gravy.
	When putting glycerine on chapped hands, first wash
them thoroughly in soap and water, and when not quite
dry, rub them in the glycerine. This process will be
found much better than the old one.
	Cottage Pudding.—One egg, one half cupful of sugar, 
one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two tea-
spoonfuls of cream of tartar, one pint of flour, and a little
salt. Flavor the sauce with lemon.
	Apple Tapioca Pudding.—One large cupful of tapioca,
three pints of cold water, one cupful of sugar, one tea-
spoonful of extract of lemon, three pints of pared and
quartered apples. Wash the tapioca, and put it to soak in
cold water. Three hours will do, but it is better to soak it
over night. Cook the tapioca from twenty to thirty
minutes; then add the seasoning and apples. Turn it into
a buttered dish, and bake it one hour and a quarter. Let
the pudding stand in a cool room half an hour before
serving.
	Green Gooseberry Jam.—For three pounds of goose-
berries use three and one half pounds of sugar. Pick off
the stalks and buds from the berries; bruise them lightly;
put them into the preserving pan and boil them quickly for
eight or ten minutes, stirring all the time; add the sugar to
the fruit, and boil it briskly for three quarters of an hour,
carefully removing the scum as it rises. When done, put
it into pots, cover it with brandy paper, and secure it close-
ly down with paper moistened with the white of an egg.


OBITUARY.

	It becomes our painful duty to record the death of
another of our beloved sisters here at West Portage,
Hannah John, wife of James John, of Portage, and
daughter of Jacob and Mary Abbot. She departed this
life on Saturday, July 31st, 1886. The illness which
proved fatal was child-bed fever. She was the mother of
fourteen children. Eight and her husband are still living
She embraced the Gospel in 1857 in her childhood. She
died as she had lived, a true Latter-day Saint, full of faith


in the holy priesthood. She was true to her Father in
heaven, true to her husband and children, and true to her
religion.
	She was a faithful member of the Relief Society, re-
spected and beloved by all her friends and associates. Her
conduct was always of an exemplary character, which de-
notes the true Christian. May it be our happy portion,
when called to pass behind the vail, like her, to look for-
ward with the hope of a glorious resurrection in the king-
kom of our God.

	So, rest in peace, dear sister,
		With our Father dwell awhile;
	When our work on earth is finished
		Greet us with thy holy smile.

	ELIZA A. HALL, Sec. R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

