VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1886.	NO. 10.


[Column 1]

MY CHRISTMAS GIFT.

It was Christmas morning, fair and bright,
	The happy day had come;
God's sunshine shed its golden light
	Alike on every one.

From many lands the merry bells
	A joyous greeting hurled,
Until a mellow, silver sound
	Encircled all the world.

I walked alone, in foreign land.
	For me no Christmas cheer,
I clasped in mine no friendly hand,
	No loved ones hovered near.

I marked how sweet on every face
	A smile of gladness beamed,
And wondered why to me alone
	The day all sadness seemed.

Wondering thus, I breathed a prayer-
	That some sweet hope be given
To lift my thoughts from worldly care.
	And draw me nearer heaven.

In answer to the silent wail,
	A heart-cry half expressed,
A wondrous calm fell o'er my soul—
	I knew that I was blessed.

As evening came, in happier mind, 
	I sought my lonely room.
Thinking in sleep the peace to find,
	In dreams the joy would come.

Not so, it was there before me,
	My precious Christmas gift,
Lighting the darkness around me.
	Casting my sadness adrift.

It was a letter, only a letter.
	But to me a priceless boon,
For its pages revealed glad tidings
	Of loved ones left at home.

With sacred touch I raised it,
	And I kissed it o'er and o'er.
For of all the gifts the day could bring,
	Not one would I love more.

As I read the gladsome message
	The tender words implied,
A picture rose before me
	Of the HOME at Christmas-tide.

And I saw the happy circle,
	All the loved ones gathered there.
And I heard the joyous greetings,
	That I knew I could not share.

The dance, the games, the frolic.
	The songs, the wondrous stories,
The laugh, the jest, the merriment,
	And all this day's sweet glories

Passed before me like a vision
	In the firelight’s flickering gleam,
Filling my soul with gladness—
	Oh, wondrous happy dream!

As I listened in my dreaming,
	One sweet voice I seemed to hear,
In faintest accents whisper,
	"Oh, would that he were here!"

My humble prayer was answered,
	I felt the sweet relief;
The dreary sorrow vanished,
	I knew no further grief.

[Column 2]

Oh, blessed day to every heart!
	May such sweet peace be given,
To cheer along the weary way,
	And bring us nearer heaven.

		SHIRLEY.


[Column 1]

﻿A NEW YEAR'S VISIT.

	In staid old New England, New Year's Day
is observed with considerable enthusiasm. Of
late years it has been and is customary to re-
ceive calls, but in the country villages, the
same simple habits prevail as formerly. I speak
from experience.
	There is no place on earth more beautifully
quiet, orderly and pleasant than an old
fashioned country home, and on New Year's
Day there is always good cheer and welcome
greetings for all. Friendly neighbors, with
glad faces, exchange brief visits and allude
to current topics, and everywhere plenty and
cheerfulness abound. The tables are loaded
with well cooked viands, and the great fires of
pine knots still glow upon the hearthstone and
cast the flickering shadows upon the dimly
lighted walls at eventide.
	To be sure the improved methods of heating
by means of radiators, etc., are in vogue in the
country places, but the real New Englander
always has one room "with rights reserved"
for a fireplace in which to burn the pine knots
on special occasions. Sitting by a fire of this
sort, with the smell of the woods around you,
for there is invariably the pine and hemlock
boughs hung in nooks and corners, one can
better recall the happy past and tell over again
the tales of other days, than in a room warmed
with steam and radiant with the light from
gas jets.
	No matter how good the bank account may
be of these country gentle folks, the same
primitive simplicity still characterizes many of
their homes, and in the rooms where the family
gatherings are held on Thanksgiving and New
Year's evenings, after the dinner has been
served, there is still a remnant, at least, of the
furniture of the olden time. Occasionally one
finds the "settle," on which six or seven people
may sit comfortably. They were invented in
the early days for ease and practical use, and
were found in the great kitchens and living
rooms, a century or more ago, and were in
keeping with the large wide open fire-places,
where our great-grandmothers used to roast
their turkeys and geese, and even young pigs,
on festive occasions, hung up before the fire
and turned round and round and "properly
basted," with a pan underneath on the hearth
to catch the gravy. They had not the modern
labor-saving contrivances in those days that we
have now in the poorest homes, and the great
wonder is how those dear old souls managed to
get through so much work. I have rattled on
so that I forgot to finish describing a "settle."
They are straight backed and very high, almost
like a partition, and perfectly solid. The
arms at each end are wide enough to set a
basket of fruit or a pitcher of cider, and the
seat has lids to lift up, in sort of sections all
the way along, in which nuts and apples are
kept for the winter evening's refreshments, in-
stead of going into the cellar or pantry to fetch
them.
	Every sort of quaint, old-time furniture is
brought out and displayed with a great deal of
pride since the centennial celebration.  In a
number of houses, where I visited last winter,

[Column 2]

I saw very queer old-style articles, gilded, orna-
mented and decorated with ribbons and trim-
mings. This rage for the antique is carried to
a foolish extreme, but the custom of sitting by
a fire of pine knots on a winter evening is sug-
gestive of stories, legends and ballads, such as
we all love to listen to at times, forgetting,
meantime, the eares and drudgery of the work-
a-day world. It is good to have such seasons of
enjoyment, and the simple pastimes, that
brought no undue excitement, are still in-
dulged in "away up in the country," and the
actual game of "fox and geese" on a board
marked off with chalk, and played with grains
of corn, is still played, occasionally, with the
same enthusiasm as it was hundreds of years
ago.
	To go back again after forty years of Western
life and meet with old friends, gives one a very
peculiar feeling. In some respects great
changes have taken place, and again, some
things never seem to have changed at all. Last
year I spent both Christmas and New Year's
in good old Massachusetts. Christmas in one
small factory town, and New Year's in another.
It was like going over some old romance, and-
I fairly reveled in the delight of meeting with
and visiting loved ones from whom I had been
so long and widely separated; and in going
over the scenes of childhood's days, there were
many things to tell, and no end of explana-
tions to be made, and questions to be answered,
and yet on Christmas and New Year's we
talked of the same themes and told the "old,
old stories" over again, and sung snatches of
love songs and ditties without meaning, just as
of yore, and to hear us, one would have sup-
posed we were the same glad, happy children,
except for the quiver in our voices, who clus-
tered round the family hearthstone more than
forty years ago; but had a true vision of the
olden time and of now been presented, what a
strange contrast the two pictures would have
made.
	One would be of a group of a dozen or
more around a clean-swept hearth, with a
bright, glowing wood fire, the mother wearing
a smile of sweet contentment, and the children
ranging from eighteen and twenty down to
"wee little ones;" boys and girls with bright,
happy faces, on which no cloud or shadow
seemed to have fallen. The room, long and
low, the walls of oak wood, paneled, carved
and smoothly polished; no ornaments, scarcely,
except the festooning of evergreen and hemlock
boughs. The chairs, spindle-legged and straight
backed, make one tired to look at them. A
long settee, with rockers, and half a dozen
children sitting in it—though one end is used
exclusively for baby's cradle. The children
teasing the mother or older sisters for stories,
and the young people too much occupied in
singing songs, telling riddles and conundrums
to notice the little ones. Who would think, in
looking at this gathering, that in a few years
the inmates would be scattered far and wide,
and never again sit by the same hearthstone,
and some never look into the faces of those so
near and dear—their very own "kith and kin."
Yet so it was; and so it is in this changeful life
with many a one. The old home! the memory
of it clings to us as long as we live, especially
if it be a home in the country—the orchards,
the pastures, the lanes, the groves, the brooks
the ponds, and above all the woods, haunt us in
dreams and meditative moments forever. The
thoughts aud feelings associated with the places


where we have roamed and the scenes through
which we have passed in tender years are all
too deeply engraven ever to be eradicated.
Bryon, in "The Dream," says, and truthfully,
too, what it seems to me applies to the beauti-
ful past as well, childhood's hours particularly:

	"They have a weight upon our waking thoughts,
	They take a weight from off our waking toils;
	They do divide our being; they become
	A portion of ourselves, as of our time;
	They pass like spirits of the past—they speak
	Like sybils of the future; they have power—
	The tyranny of pleasure and of pain;
	They make us what we were not—what they will,
	And shake us with the vision that's gone by."

	The other picture is of New Year's Eve,
1885, and a day of 1886, and is, indeed, not a 
shadow, but profound reality.
	It is almost like revisiting another world to
go back to the scenes of one's childhood after
more than forty year's absence. Meeting and
embracing brothers and sisters, whom one can-
not recognize, the feeling is a strange one in-
deed. There is something decidedly pitiful
in meeting those of one's own immediate family
and not knowing a feature or a tone of the
voice, though it does come back to you after-
wards, little by little. To be viewed from top
to toe, and every feature scanned critically,
and then to be told "You are not a bit like
yourself," is almost as comical as Mother
Goose's version of the little old woman who
was so bewildered and dazed that she ex-
claimed, "Lauk a mercy on me, this surely
can't be I."
	New Year's Eve I sat and watched the old
year out and new year in with my sister and
her husband in a cosy parlor in New England,
profusely decorated with fresh flowers,and ever-
greens from the pine woods near by. We
three sat around the fire together, as we three
shall never meet again in this life. We chatted
of the old and the new, the old Yankee cus-
toms and the new Western habits.
	How widely different the lives of those reared
under the same roof often are in their experi-
ences and development. How tame the lives
of some, how tempestuous those of others. Like
the ships that sail out on the great ocean, some
glide smoothly over, almost without an effort,
others encounter severe storms, and are tossed
about and beaten hither and thither.
	We talked of the past and the future, of our
strange meeting now, and of that other meet-
ing and greeting in the hereafter. New Year's
Day we called on dear friends of my sister's,
and some schoolmates of mine, who were per-
fectly familiar with my name, invariably call-
ing me "Emmie," and telling me incidents I
could not recall. There were real cousins, too,
whom I had never even seen, who furnished
me with historical data and stories of our fore-
fathers and foremothers, the half of which,
though it  was  told me, I cannot remember.
One thing I never shall forget—the perfume
of the pine and hemlock woods, through which
we drove, though it was the dead of winter,
and the ground white with snow, nor the sweet,
pale face of my darling sister, and the heavy
masses of her silvery silken hair, as she sat
and talked to me of our blessed mother and
the old, old home, of those that had gone, and
others who are scattered east and west, and of
the time when we should meet again, where
there will be no more sad partings.
		AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

M. J. TANNER.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	We leave the snow sheds, at some of which
the section men tell us the snow is still thirty
feet deep. We wind around on the mountain,

[Column 2]

doubling on our track, going up aud down, but
still descending. We meet the western bound
train, and shortly after, looking out, we see it
traveling in the same direction as ourselves; it
turns a curve and is out of sight.
	Shirley, 12:30. Going down the cañon.
Poncha, 1 p.m. A lovely little valley and
pleasant little village. Salida, twenty minutes
for dinner; a nice little town, pleasantly situated.
A mining town, I should suppose, for there are
no gardens or trees, nor any sign of vegetation.
	3:30. Now we reach the Grand Cañon of
the Arkansas River. It is a dark, gloomy
gorge, with rocks towering to a great height
on either side. It is grand beyond description,
but my pen could not possibly convey an idea
of its appearance. Above us the jagged cliffs
and below us the roaring river. One moment
we are on trestle work, and the next turning a
curve so short that the engine looks as if it
would  meet the back end of the train. It
gives one a feeling of suspense to see how little
stands between us and eternity.
	Cañon City, 3:50.  Here we leave the Rocky
Mountains. The country is lovely as it meets
our view coming down the hill. One could
hardly imagine a lovelier view. The city is the
nicest I have seen since I left home; well laid
out with sidewalks and shade trees. Here the
country changes; the hills are solid piles of
white sandstone rising one above another. The
road passes between the rocks, which rise above
us on either side, and we see extensive stone
quarries, where people are working on the sides
of the hills with derricks and machinery for
moving the immense rocks which they quarry
for building or other purposes. There is some
picturesque scenery as we pass along. Occa-
sionally the ruins of an adobie house. Very
little population until we near the old town of
Pueblo, a town of considerable historical inter-
est for me, as here our Mormon Soldiers were
left when they could travel no further on that
long and memorable march, when they were
torn from their families to fight for the country
that was powerless or unwilling to protect
them. Here my husband staid with those
helpless ones, suffering from overwork, priva-
tion and disease.
	The town is a singular mixture of architec-
ture, from the cabins made by standing boards
or logs on end, and covering them with clay,
to immense brick houses, built in a square,
solid form, and having the same general ap-
pearance. It covers considerable country, but
I could gain no information, except what I saw
in passing. It is, however, different in style
from any city I have ever seen. Here we
change cars and take the Arkansas and Topeka
line. They are broad guage cars, but we miss
our chairs and are mixed up with strange peo-
ple. We feel this unpleasantly as we note the
appearance of some females who are drinking
beer and laughing and talking with loud voices.
	Thursday, April 16. 242 miles to Kansas
City, 6:30 a.m. How strangely everything
looks. No green trees, or fruit blossoms, or
fences or door yards. The town is called Nicker
sen, and is built entirely of frame or board
houses. Scarcely any farming is yet under
way.
	We made beds with our seats, and rested
some last night, though we were annoyed by
the conductor calling out to us the names of
the towns we passed. When we awoke this
morning the conductor told us we had got
down in God's country now. It struck me as
rather ludicrous. I told him we had just come
from God's country.  "Where was that?" "Up
in the tops of the Rocky Mountains." If God
did not own that country, I did not know who
did; I thought it was as near God as some of
us would ever get. Some one asked where we
were. "In sunny Kansas," was the reply. We
thought that a misnomer, for it was dark and
cloudy, and there was not a green tree, nor

[Column 3]

field of wheat, or lucern, or fruit blossom to be
seen.
	Hutchinson. A nice pleasant town, with
brick houses and broad streets; the door yards
are fenced, and there are some nice orchards.
It has a general business air, but no look of
spring. The general appearance of the coun-
try improves.
	Newton, 9 a.m. Twenty minutes for break-
fast. My watch is an hour too slow. I send
out for potatoes, but get none; pay twenty
cents for a cup of tea, and make a comfortable
breakfast; the rest of the company eat, and we
are all merry and hearty.


PRIMARY CONFERENCE AND FAIR.

	On Saturday morning of Oct. 23d, 1886, the
members of the Primary Association of Lehi
City, held their yearly conference. Present on
the stand were Bishop T. R. Cutler, A. K. 
Smoot, Stake President, R. Standring, Assist-
ant to Stake President, C. Ball, President of
1st District, E. Smuin, of 3rd District, and
Sister Thomas.
	After the usual opening exercises, the
minutes of last conference were read and ap-
proved; also the statistical and financial re-
ports. The programme consisted of recitations,
essays, songs, questions and answers. Miss
Jezell Gibb gave a recitation refering to the
brethren in prison, which was so well recited
as to cause many to drop a tear.
	President A. K. Smoot being the first speaker,
stated that the mothers could not but realize
that great credit was due to those who had been
training these children; the Primary was doing
a great work.
	Bishop T. R. Cutler was the next speaker;
was well paid for coming; the singing had
been very good. Exhorted all to attend their 
choir meetings.
	President R. Standring said the time had
been well spent; it would not be wise to detain
the children longer.
	E. Smuin endorsed the remarks that had
been made by the former speakers. Benedic-
tion by Isaac Fod.
	The officers then made their way to Sister 
Conner's, where tables were spread with a
sumptuous repast.

FAIR.
	At one o'clock the fair was opened, and the
pleasant sight that attracted your gaze on the
right was a table filled with cookery, home-
made candies, etc. Farther up was a great
display of agriculture; also a number of bot-
tles filled with different varieties of fruit, to
be donated to the Deseret Hospital. On the
left was the needle work of the little girls—
quilts, tidies, mats, knitting and other varieties,
showing what their busy little fingers could ac-
complish. Some of the cookery was sold, and
the means thrown into the treasury to help
meet expenses.
		SARAH A. BALL, Secretary.


To rule without regard, to urge without rea-
son, and to laugh immoderately, are manifest
signs of ignorance.—W. Bellenden.
	Who could live surrounded by calamities,
did not smiling hope cheer him with expecta-
tion of deliverance?—J. Hamilton.
	Law is like a sieve; it is very easy to see
through it, but a man must be considerably re-
duced before he can get through it.—G. S.
Morton.
	The aggregate happiness of society, which is
best promoted by the practice of a virtuous
policy, is or ought to be the end of all govern-
ment.—Washington.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HE WILL DEFEND HIS PEOPLE.

Our flag's unfurled to all the world,
	Proclaiming peace and freedom,
We're trusting still in God, who will
	Defend His Saints and lead them.

Our foes He staid, and round us spread
	Rich blessings from His bounty,
Which makes them hate and persecute
	So filled are they with envy.

We've welcomed all the great and small,
	To view our thriving cities
Where order reigns, and God sustains
	His people in their duties.

We know that He will ne'er desert—
	Though He will scourge His people,
And set them right, with power and might,
	He'll make the traitor tremble.

While they may seek to prostitute
	And sink us to their level,
They'll only take the hypocrite,
	And those whose deeds are evil.

Their wicked lies will advertise
	Us widely to the nations,
Who'll learn the truth and real worth
	Of Saints who've borne oppression.

Thousands to-day, in darkness lay,
	And will not heed the warning
Of men of God but spill their blood
	For truths they are proclaiming.

But such will claim the martyr's crown,
	Glorious lives immortal;
While doomed are those who've shed their blood.
	To misery eternal.

We know that God will keep His word,
	And sorely scourge this nation.
Oh! that they might, by doing right,
	Escape His indignation.

But we shall strive through life to make
	Our cause a ture and just one;
And to their shame, our rights we'll claim,
	Enjoying full possession.

		HELEN MAR WHITNEY.


[Column 1]

FOREIGN LETTER.

	HONOLULU, Nov., 23rd 1886.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	We came here about a week ago to witness
the grand festivities which were to commence
on the King's fiftieth birthday, Nov. 16th, and
extend over a period of two weeks. We came
in a drizzle, and the drizzle has since turned
into long unvarying rain. Sometimes it has
really poured down in tiny streams. The
grand celebration has turned out into a grand
failure. What may be done when it stops
raining can only be conjectured.
	You see there was to be, beside the recep-
tion and fireworks on the 16th, a regatta, a
grand ball, an historical procession, historical
tableaux for evening, a magnificent feast etc.,
etc., ad lib.
	We have witnessed the fireworks and proces-
sion, but were disappointed therein. I have
seen better fireworks in the city, and the pro-
cession far excelled by some of our "twenty-
fourth" affairs.
	The rain has kept everybody indoors. And
I am inclined to think, from personal observa-
tions, that everybody's temper has not been 
bettered thereby.
	Last Sunday, after being shut up in the
house for nearly a week; we managed to get
across the yard into the meeting house and
enjoyed meeting with the native saints. Mon-
day morning according to a previous appoint-
ment, Brothers Wm. King and J. F. Gates
went to the Palace to present the set of ele-
gantly bound Church works which the Laie

[Column 2]

people had purchased for the occasion. They
were shown up stairs, and into an immense
hall, the walls hung with beautiful pictures
and the heavy doors elegantly carved and
polished. A smaller hallway led to the room
occupied by the King, where the books were
presented with a few appropriate remarks by
Elder J. F. Gates. This room was gorgeous
beyond description, and walls and furniture
showy with glossy peacock blue satin hung
with golden rods.
	The whole inside of the Palace is said to be
magnificiently gorgeous, furnished with a true
savage love of all that is gaudy and brilliant.
But everything is certainly genuine if gaudy,
for the building cost over four hundred and
fifty thousand dollars.
	The afternoon of the King's birthday, the
"populace" were allowed to go through the
lovely rooms; but as I had the baby I did not
attempt it; I hope to, however, before return-
ing to Utah, and if so I shall try and give you 
some idea of the place.
	Sunday evening I persuaded the brethren
to go down to Fourth Street Church, where the
music is beautiful. But on arriving there,
after our long walk in the mud and dark, be-
hold there were no services.
	We started back, but stopped in front of the
Chinse Christian Church, and decided to enter.
The hall was spacious and well lighted, with
wooden seats and a pulpit at one end, with a
gallery for the singers at the opposite end.
	There were only a few present, but they
seemed very devout, reading their bibles, which
were plentifully strewed all along on the
benches.
	The services commenced with an old fash-
ioned tune to Chinse words. We looked very
curiously up at the row of Chinse girls and
boys in the singers' gallery who nearly all
seemed full of the suppressed merriment of
youth under like circumstances. The singing
was very fresh and clear and much like our
own country choirs. The funny hair-dressing
of the women is growing upon my eyes. And
indeed I am beginning to be able to see some
attraction in these bland smiling celestial faces,
especially when young and fresh.
	The preacher or pastor then offered up
a prayer. Another song followed, the organ
trying in vain to keep the congregation some-
where in its own key. This over, the pastor
opened his bible, and read a chapter as his
text, A young Chinse across the aisle, direct-
ly handed us a couple of English bibles opened
to a chapter in Matthew. We were pleased to
read along in our own tongue. A short ser-
mon followed on the text, the deep musical
tones of the speaker, and strange unknown
sounds of the Chinse tongue, all contributed
to render sounder the inevitable nap of one of
our members. However, the choir soon woke
him up with its closing hymn, and a short
prayer dismissed us to our homes in peace.
	The pretty bias-eyed girls peeped down at
us from the gallery, and we frankly looked up.
Then out again on the muddy, dark streets,
and we reached home all right at last.
	It is still raining. Goodness only knows
when we'll get back to Laie for our best horse
has fallen seriously lame.
	Please give my best love to all my friends
in the city.
	Yours as ever,
		HOMESPUN.

Susan Young Galis


[Column 1]

MY VIEWS ON CELESTIAL, PLURAL
MARRIAGE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Since you made the request in the EXPON-
ENT that the sisters who had individual inter-
esting experience in the order of celestial, plural
marriage would write something concerning it

[Column 2]

that would tend to satisfy the inquiring minds
of the strangers traveling in our midst, I have
thought of giving my views on this important
subject.
	I entered into the order of plural marriage
twenty-three years ago. I was then a girl of
eighteen, and I believe I can truthfully say
that I have never had trials enough to make
me repent of the course then taken; on the
contrary, I must say that as years have in-
creased my faith has been strengthened, and I
have been able to see more and more the
beauty and benefit of this order.  But I will
tell you, kind readers, that I am not the first,
and as they say in the courts, "legal wife."
No; the man that I desired should be my com-
panion for time and eternity had already been
married for more than twenty years.  Some of
our readers may say, "Well, it cannot be so
much of a trial to enter in as the second wife
as it would be to the first." I will leave this 
to the reader's own opinion, as I consider that
only those who have had an experience are
capable of judging. I believe that all who
enter into this exalted order will have trials
sufficient, if they honestly desire to do right, to
cause them to seek unto the Lord for an in-
creased portion of His Spirit, which is the
only means that will truly smooth the rugged 
path. And I am convinced that even in 
monogamous marriage there are just as fre-
quently trials that can scarcely be borne with-
out faith to lean on the Lord; and I know
from my own experience, that the Lord takes
notice of the prayers of His faithful daugh-
ters.
	Undoubtedly there are many faithful sisters
in this Church, who can bear testimony that
this is true; but the strangers may say, "You
assert this, and I am not quite convinced of
its truth." I will cite you to the Bible, the
standard guide for all Christians. In Genesis,
21st chapter, 15th to 20th verses, we learn that 
the Lord sent His angel to Hagar, and he
spoke unto her words of comfort and consola-
tion; and God was with the lad, Ishmael, the
offspring of plural marriage.
	It appears, also, that the Lord took notice 
of the wives of Moses, for we read in the book
of Numbers, 12th chapter, that the anger of
the Lord was kindled against Miriam and
Aaron, because they had something to say
about Moses marrying an Ethiopia woman.
he (Moses) was evidently a polygamist, for we
read in Exodus, 2nd chapter, that he married
Zepporah, a daughter of the priest of Midian.
Now I will just mention one more instance,
where the Lord has heard and answered the
prayers of the plural wife.
	In the first book of Samuel, 1st chapter, we
read how the Lord heard and answerd the
prayers of Hannah, the wife of Elkanah, and
gave her a son, even the Prophet Samuel,
Now, I will briefly say, that although my path
may not have been strewn with roses, yet my
faith has continued to grow, and I can truly
say that there is not enough enticement in the
whole monogamous Christendom to induce me 
for one moment to give up my position as a
plural wife.
     And now, dear Editor, I pray God to bless
all the efforts you make to encourage truth
and to break down the errors that hold the
civilized world as in chains of iron.
	Yours truly,
		A PLURAL WIFE.
	Riverdale, Dec. 22, 1836.


The law was given to men, not to angels.—
Talmud.
	Tranquil pleasures last the longest; we are
not fitted to bear long the burden of great joys.
—Bovee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE D. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 1, 1886.


[column 1]
THE NEW YEAR.

     How little any of us know, unless by the spirit
of prophecy at the commencement of a new year,
what awaits us, or our friends, or our people, ere
the year shall draw to a close.  Standing upon the
threshold of this new year, it is easy to see what
barriers have been thrown up in the past one to
environ about the Lrtter-day Saints, and to hinder
their temporal and financial progress.  But the
spiritual advancement, these foes to the Saints
cannot stay in its onward march; that is not in
their power.  They cannot curtail the freedom of
the soul, not even when the body is incar-
cerated in prison; of this there has been abund-
ant proof during the year now just drawn to a
final close.  The work they now seek to destroy is
still marching forward gloriously, notwithstanding
the many obstacles thrown in the way.  Faith in
God, humility and patience will overcome and the
right will triumph, though the storm of hate and
error may rage fiercely and the days and times
grow darker still in the near future.  Though much
has transpired during the year that is past and
gone that may with all propriety be called perse-
cution, yet the enemy has not accomplished that
which was anticipated; the Lord has taken charge
of His chosen servants who are in exile, who stand
as pillars in the structure of the Church, and has
preserved them in safety, if not in peace, and not
a hair of their heads has been harmed.  To be
sure one of the apostles was taken but that very
thing has preached the Gospel and taught the
principle of plural marriage in the highest court
of the country, and in this the hand of the Al-
mighty is plainly visible, in that the Judges of that 
Court are left without excuse.
     In view of the great good being done by the
persistent persecution and oppression of this peo-
ple in several directions, perhaps after all there is
more reason to rejoice than to mourn, for many of
those whose faith was waning have wakened up
and are growing brighter and more earnest in
their endeavors to live their religion.  Union is
increasing and there seems to be less fault-finding
than in the days of prosperity.  No doubt the
tendency of the weekly prayer meetings has
helped to produce this effect, and the people really
feel, taken as a whole, the necessity of leaning
upon the Lord more on account of being deprived
of the constant advice and suggestions of the
Presidency of the Chcrch. It is very apparent
that Mormonism is coming to be better understood,
because of the opposition.  It causes people to
read and enquire who never would have thought
seriously of the matter, had it not been so loudly
proclaimed against, and the very persons who are
doing their utmost to tear in pieces the Church
and its institutions, are, by their vehemence and
animosity, spreading the truth.  And though it is
not expected all who hear will believe, yet the
Gospel must be sounded to all nations and the
opposition are paving the way for the Elders and
Church literature to reach a greater number than
could otherwise have been aroused to read and

[column 2]
hear.  That this year will be fraught with great
interest to this people no one can doubt who has
studied the prophecies concerning the latter day
work.  The one thing all should endeavor to do
is to prepare himself or herself for the day that is
coming, lest he or she be taken unawares.
     The events transpiring among the nations are
indicative of strife and rebellion.  The tendency
to monopolies is arousing the working people,
who are contributors to wealth, and the inattention
of those in power to redressing grievances and
suppressing wrongs that exist is a continual source
of agitation and will tend, at least, to uprisings
among a class who will be defiant and perhaps
cruel, the rumblings and mutterings one hears
from time to time in reference to these matters
ought to be remedied if possible to avert such a
terrible calamity as a serious outbreak would be
to this nation.  The people of the United States
have a great deal to say about the majority ruling
but if the matter at issue of Labor vs. Capital
were to be tested it would be found that labor was
the vast majority.
     A sort of co-operative labor system, such as
might be inaugurated by men of influence, would
do much toward bettering and elevating the work-
ing classes, and confidence might be created, and
a better and broader humanity be the rule, instead
of the exception.  If men of great personal and
public ability would pattern after Brigham Young
and the Mormons, instead of Jay Gould and rail-
road magnates, they might become public benefac-
tors, and receive the prayers and the blessings of
the laborer, instead of his deep muttered curses.
     The love of money and display, the luxuriance
that is the outgrowth of these two propensities, is
detrimental to the best interests of any community,
and these are growing stronger and spreading in
America.  The Lord is not pleased with those 
who selfishly aggrandize themselves to the exclu-
sion of the higher and nobler sentiments and
attributes that benefit all mankind, and He has
never yet prospered a nation for any great length
of time that gave itself up to the abandon of
wealth and pleasure seeking and extravagance.
In all the revelations given to the Latter-day
Saints, the observance of the rules of strict
economy has been enjoined upon them, and the
preservation of health and prolongation of human
life; and luxuriant living is the very opposite.
Excess of amusements and late hours, with the
consequent results, are in their tendency de-
moralizing, and should be discountenanced by all
those who are aiming for moral and social purity,
and the development of the higher and nobler at-
tributes of head and heart.
    It is to be hoped that in the year now opening
up great progress may be made in Zion, spiritual,
mental and moral, as well as temporal, and that
the oppressor’s chains may be broken, the prison
doors be opened, and the captive, Imprisoned for
conscience’ sake, go forth free and unmolested.
And with the most earnest prayer for all who suf-
fer persecutions, and for all the tried and sorrow-
ful ones, let the prayers of the faithful Saints as-
cend day and night, that all may go on to perfec-
tion, and arrive at the unity of the faith.  And
coupled with this wish, the EXPONENT extends
congratulations of the season and a happy new
year to all.
		“What thou hast in store
		   This coming year I do not stop to ask;
		Enough, if day by day there dawns before
		   Me my appointed task."


[column 1]
EVAN STEPHENS' SINGING CLASSES.
	For some years a great deal has been said
about Bro. Stephens' wonderful faculty for teach-
ing singing, and it is well known that his efforts
in behalf of the youth of Zion have already been
attended with the best success, "though the half
﻿
[column 2]
has not been told." The greatest work, however,
in this direction, is probably still in the future as
he has already laid a substantial foundation on
which to build a musical structure, and among the
youth of Zion he has all the good material neces-
sary for the fine work he has undertaken. The
public has heard through the daily papers some of
his plans now in progress in regard to the training
of "our boys and girls," being much interested in
the cultivation of music, and especially the human
voice, we have watched from time to time the
course Bro. Stephens has pursued and noticed his
desire to perform public service in his particular
line of work and we feel an intense interest in the
matter.
The writer had the pleasure of meeting Bro.
Stephens in Boston at the New England Con-
servatory of music last winter, and found he had
won the admiration of his fellow students as a 
musical genius, as well as by his genial manners
even though he was known to be a "Mormon."
At his invitation and in his company we attended
one of the entertainments given by the students, and
saw the magnificent new hall beautifully illumin-
ated, and listened to the cultivated voices of the
young men and women, who make music a pro-
fession. In the midst of the enjoyment of the
hour our thoughts wandered back to Zion, and we
could not help feeling that we had as good ma-
terial here as was gathered there, or even better,
and that the future would develop here at home,
melody of voices that would fill the sacred tem-
ples, tabernacles and halls of Zion with vocal
music of the highest type.
But to accomplish this the student must be in-
terested in the work as well as the teacher. It is
impossible to perform a labor of this kind without
united effort, and to cultivate a taste for music and
develop the voices of the young will tend to refine-
ment and social elevation of character.
Bro. Stephens has kindly favored us with a few
items that the readers of the EXPONENT may per-
haps use to advantage in aiding him by their in-
fluence in the generous labor he has striven so
industriously to perform.
Brother Stephens has at present the following
classes: First, one of one hundred children both
sexes reading music from the notes and learning
chorus singing. Second, one of twenty-five ad-
vanced children students studying solo singing
and advanced reading. Third, about 100 just 
starting to read music and part singing. Fourth,
five hundred children selected from Sunday School
to learn alto to Sunday School pieces. This class
is taught free. There is also a class of about fifty
young men and young women at the the Deseret
University studying vocal music and how to teach
it in the public schools and elsewhere.
An evening class, numbering over 100 young
men and young women, studying classic music and
opera, in connection with advanced reading and
expression, etc., and a class of adults just starting
to read music. The  school teachers of 
the country also receive some instructions in read-
ing and how to teach.
Another large class for the purpose of teaching
all the brethren attending the Sunday Schools
of the city to sing tenor and bass, is shortly to be
organized. The whole now numbering something
over a thousand. The children of widows and
those in poor circumstances are always received
and made welcome to Bro. Stevens' reading
classes, free of charge, and quite a number attend.
He has in mind the establishing of a fund to aid
in giving such permanent instruction in classes,
and also free scholarships to such as show
great talent and deserve special recognition of
their efforts to study. Some concerts will be given
between now and Spring in order to raise means 
for this object. An afternoon class for ladies 
only is to be organized early in this year.
Bro. Stephens earnest and ardent desire is to
lay a foundation for the future musical progress


of teaching the youth of Zion, how to be practi-
cal musicians. Like many other professional
men, he needs encouragement, and enthusiastic,
as well as practical support from the community
in which he is so preservingly laboring to promote
a public interest in musical culture. Bro. Stephens
sometimes feels he has to almost force his labors
upon the people, although personally he is treated
in the kindliest manner, but to make his labors
effective of the best results and his own strength
and endurance lasting, to accomplish a noble work
ia this department of culture, he should, most cer-
tainly, receive the hearty cooperation of those
who desire to see the youth of this people elevated
to the highest rank in all that will tend to build
up and glorify Zion. To teach children is not the
easiest task, and there are but few musical men
who have the adaptability or the patience to un-
dertake, or at any rate, continue as Bro. Stephens
has done. In this particular he stands almost
alone, and should be fully appreciated. An old
saying “poets are born not made,” will as aptly ap-
ply to musicians and teachers for although much
may be acquired yet one must have natural gifts to
succeed to any marked extent. Those who are inti-
mately acquainted with Bro. Stephens will probably 
agree in saying, that he was born with a wonderful
talent for music, and he certainly possesses a rare
faculty of adaptability for teaching. Men of his
type incline to melancholy if not given encourage-
ment and support, and when one considers how
few there are who have the ability and the dispo-
sition to do so magnificent a work, it seems in-
credible that people should not enthusiastically 
appreciate the undertaking.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 					
117


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE several wards of this city, and the country
wards, as far as we have learned, have been
specially mindful of the poor, the aged and the
sick during the Christmas season.

	THE pictures of Lucy Smith, the Prophet
Joseph’s mother, ordered from New York, have,
for some unknown reason, been delayed, but will,
no doubt, soon arrive, and at our earliest possible
convenience will be distributed to the subscribers
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE theatrical entertainment given free by the
“Old Folk’s Committee,” in the Salt Lake Theatre
Christmas week, was a most enjoyable affair,
and well patronized by the aged, the widows
and orphans, and it was indeed a pleasing and
agreeable sight. The real enjoyment depicted on
the countenances of the assembled multitude must
have been highly gratifying to those who had
taken so much pains to interest and amuse those
who have more of the sober realities and fewer
enjoyments than those in more prosperous cir-
cumstances, or who are not so far advanced in
years.


﻿A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	If you will accept them I would like to write
you a few lines concerning my dear mother, Sister
Ann Jenkins, who passed suddenly and peacefully
away on the evening of the 13th of Nov., 1886.
I desired to do so sooner, but sickness and other
causes have prevented.
	She was a faithful mother in Israel, and as such
I think worthy of mention in our EXPONENT
which she highly valued and diligently read and
from whose columns she derived much pleasure.
She, like many other faithful women in Zion, passed
through many trials and scenes of suffering, which
are known to none but God and their own hearts.
She was well known as an exceeedingly patient


woman, duty was always a first consideration with
her, and one of her earliest teachings which I can
remember was, “It is better to suffer wrong than
to do wrong.” She accepted plural marriage
early in her life with submission and thankful-
ness, and taught her children with earnestness to
respect and revere that sacred principle. I never
heard one doubting word pass her lips in regard
to the truth of this work to which she was devoted.
She was a careful economical and industrious
house-keeper, and although her children have
been for some time all married, yet her fingers
were ever busy knitting and stitching for her
grandchildren (thirteen of them) whom she dearly
and impartially loved, indeed on the day she died
she took care of the youngest of them for two
hours and she was stitching on a little dress about
twenty minutes before she expired. Her hus-
band was sitting by her; she had lain aside her
work and was reading the evening paper when
she fell forward at his feet and showed no sign of
life after. Her face wore a pleasant peaceful ex-
pression. Her life was one of unassuming merit
and fruitful with quiet acts of kindness. Although
we miss her gentle presence, her words of loving
advice and her sweet and blessed influence, yet
we are reconciled and would not recall her, for we
know all is well with her and she is free from the
suffering and cares which we are left to contend
with. In her life, we her children, have a noble ex-
ample to emulate. 
					MARY ANN LAMBERT.


NEW HALL OPENED.

	The upper hall of the Eighteenth Ward Inde-
pendent school house, the new and handsome
building which has been in course of erection for
the past two years, was opened Dec. 27 with
a social party. A happy and congenial multitude
thronged the interior, most of them being mem-
bers of the ward. Among the guests were Apos-
tle F, D. Richards and President Angus M. Can-
non, both of whom, during a lull in the dancing,
made some excellent and timely remarks. The
people of the ward were warmly praised for the
energy and taste displayed in the erection of so
beautiful and convenient a hall, designed for lec-
tures and entertainments, etc., in connection with
the principal object of the building, viz: a Latter-
day Saint school. The past with its primitive
scenes and crudities, was contrasted with the ad-
vanced educational facilities of the present, and
the changes in Society and in the country general-
ly since the early days of Utah were dwelt upon.
The young were counseled to avoid excess of gai-
ety and the pursuit of pleasure, and indulge in
dancing and recreation moderately, not only out
of deference to the trials their parents and friends
were undergoing at the present, but for their own
souls’ good, and to turn their thoughts to re-
ligion and the soberer things of life, principally,
using parties and kindred entertainments as a
means of rest and recreation, which was their
proper utility and significance.
	Bishop Whitney added a few words to what had
been said, speaking in praise of the building com-
mittee, the donors to the school fund, and refering
to the objects in view in the completion of the new
hall and building.  Dancing was then resumed
and kept up to a reasonable hour, when the assem-
bly dispersed. A vocal quartette was finely ren-
dered during the evening by Miss Deanie Caine,
Mrs.Vilate C. Young, Messrs. H. G. Whitney
and J. D. Spencer, accompanied on the organ by
C. S. Burton. Toronto and Thomassen’s 18th
Ward band, supplied the ball music in excellent
style, and Thomas Goodman was prompter.
Everything passed off happily and the party was
voted unanimously a very pleasant affair.—Deseret
News.


SEQUEL TO MY LAST.

	I have given my views very freely on celes- 
tial marriage, substantiating it by Bible proof,
quoting Scripture from the old and new Testa-
ment. But the enquirer often asks the ques-
tion, “How can you women whose husbands
have other wives endure it? I should think
you would quarrel and be jealous of your hus-
bands.”
I will answer these questions by giving my
own experience. When I first began keeping
house after marriage, there were two of us,
and we agreed to have family prayer, each one
taking her part; we also asked a blessing upon
our food. This was in the absence of our hus-
band. We prayed night and morning vocally
and in secret. We prayed for each other, for
our husband, our children, brothers and sisters
in the Church, and for all mankind. We asked
our Heavenly Father to preserve us through
the day, to bless our labors, to preserve us
from sickness, give us our daily bread, and
enlighten our minds by His Holy Spirit, and
to give us grace to enable us to overcome all
evil thoughts, jealousies, hatred and malice.
We are all weak of ourselves, but through
the Savior's redeeming grace, and through
charity, that covers the imperfections of others,
we are able to endure, to discipline ourselves,
and live in peace in the marriage relation. We
 each had a child; the sister wife a daughter,
and I a son. We had a double cradle made
to hold the two children, one lay at the head
and one at the foot. One of us would take
our sewing and care for the children, while the
other would do the housework, alternating the
work according as we saw fit. This made the
work light and easy for both of us. We lived
together until we had three children each.
	We were good and kind mothers to one
another’s children; we could go out and enjoy
ourselves and leave our children in the other’s
care. Our children grew up with the same
love for each other as though there were but
one mother. We studied each other’s comfort
and happiness, and few, indeed, were the hard
words between us, and our children never
quarreled; they were united, and they have
ever loved each other. All who became mem-
bers of the family observed the above rules.
As soon as our children could utter a prayer,
when old enough, they took their part in the
family devotion, both the boys and the girls.
We also taught our children the gospel of our
Lord and Savior according to St. Matthew, St.
Mark, St. Luke and St. John, and we teach
them to contend earnestly for the faith once
delivered to the Saints; not many faiths, many
times delivered, but the one.
	But I forget myself; I must not let my mind
run into doctrine in this article; I undertook
to tell you my experience in the Patriarchal
family relation; and when I tell mine, I tell
the experience of all true Latter-day Saints.
Yet it is all doctrine to me. What pertains to
this life affects the hereafter.
	When the family became large, each wife
had a home provided for herself and children.
I have a comfortable and happy home. I am
the mother of five children and twenty-two
grandchildren, and I rejoice in all the revealed
principles of life and salvation.
	So you see, dear reader, that the wives that
“choose the better part,” like Mary of old,
have that peace of mind that the world can
neither give, nor take away. They have no
desire to quarrel; they have confidence in their
husbands, and the husbands are true to their
wives, and their wives to them, in the marriage
relation. If they are not true to their covenants
that they make in the Lord, they forfeit their
wives and their standing in the Church. Those
who are cut off from the Church for ungodly
conduct are employed by officials to do wicked
and vile acts, and they have been known to


shoot down innocent men, and thus add another
sin to their doom; a sin that cannot be forgiven
in this world nor the world to come. Why?
because God had commanded him and he
obeyed. The man that was killed, or the man
that is deprived of his liberty for marrying
more wives than one, is only responsible to his
God, and not to his fellow man nor to his ex
post facto laws. The Latter-day Saints are on
a higher plane; they do not descend to the low
and grovelling passions that rule and govern
so many who wear the human form.
	If all are true to their God, then all work
together in unity, peace and love. But the
world sees not the true status of this peculiar
people. The scum will always rise to the top,
and this is always seen, and is not fit for use in
the kingdom of God; only fit to bring offences,
"But woe unto him by whom offences come,"
sayeth sacred writ. I have been a close ob-
server of these matters. They who oppose
this work, which is of God, are like the troubled
waters, casting up mire and dirt. Let the op-
poser take warning and cease.
			MARY ANN MERRILL PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 26, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A REPORTS.
		TOOELE STAKE CONFERENCE.
	The quarterly conference of the R. S., Y. L.
M. I. A. and P. A. Associations of the Tooele
Stake was held in the Grantsville meeting
house, Dec. 11th and 12th, 1886, commencing
Saturday at 10 a.m., Mrs. Mary A, Hunter
presiding. After the opening exercises of sing-
ing and prayer, Sisters Minerva W. Snow and
Elizabeth Howard, who were here from Salt
Lake City, addressed the meeting.
	Sister Howard was the first speaker, and
gave very good instructions to the sisters, both
old and young, in her usual good way, and in
that good spirit that comes from every true
Latter-day Saint.		
Sister Minerva Snow spoke to the sisters in a
kind and motherly way, that will encourage
all who desire to do the will of God and keep
His commandments, and Sister Ann Tate gave
a verbal report of the Tooele Relief Society,
as Prest. Delamare was not in attendance. The
choir sang, and meeting was dismissed by Bro.
Wm. Rydalch.
	In the afternoon Primary Conference con-
vened, at which there was a large attendance,
Sister Sarah Hale presiding. The children
gave, in a very creditable manner, songs, recita-
tions and essays, and Sisters Minerva W. Snow
and Elizabeth Howard instructed the children
to obey their parents, and not forget their
prayers, and they would grow up to be good
men and women in the kingdom of God.
	On Saturday Evening the Young Ladies
held their Conference. After the usual opening
exercises, reading of reports, etc., Sister Tate
reported the Tooele Y. L. M. I. A. in not so
good a condition as it should be, but they had
started to meet again.
	Miss Melinda McBride gave a report of the
Grantsville Y. L. M. I. A. It was in a good
condition. Met in Conjoint session once in two
weeks, and had very interesting meetings. 
Sister Howard and M. W. Snow again ad-
dressed the meeting, and encouraged the young
people to do right and live up to their privil-
eges.
Bro. Wm. Collet endorsed the remarks of
the sisters, and said he had been very much
interested in the good instructions, and desired
to do the will of God at all times.
	Singing by the choir. Benediction by Bro.
Alma Hale.
	On Sunday morning the sisters from the city
attended Sunday School.  At the close of the
exercises, the sisters spoke in a very able man-
ner on the principles of the Gospel; encouraged
the children in attending Sunday School, and


to keep the Sabbath day holy. The sisters
also met with the meeting in the afternoon, and 
gave much good instruction to all present.
	ANN TATE, Cor. Sec. of Stake.


SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

SYNOPSIS OF MINUTES.

	Regular meeting held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday, Oct. 2nd,
1886, Prest. M. I. Horne presiding. After the
usual exercises, minutes of the last meeting,
held in August (conference intervening) were
read and accepted; also minutes of the P. A.
of the 5th, 20th and 8th wards; also minutes of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 8th and Mill Creek
Wards.
	Prest. Horne then addressed the meeting for
a short time in her usual motherly and instruc-
tive way, after which Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith occupied a short time. Said Latter-day
Saints ought never to look sad; that God would
overrule everything that is not for our good,
for He loves every one of us. Spoke of the
weaknesses we all have to overcome in our-
selves, and the progress we must make; that
there was no standing still in this kingdom,
but going onward; God will have a tried peo-
ple, and those that are of pure minds and con-
trite hearts. Sister Eliza made mention of
the family of Bro. Jacob Hamblin, who died
lately, and thought it would be well for the
sisters to give a trifle to help them.
	Coun. M. W. Snow spoke of the pleasant
time she had had recently visiting in the set-
tlements; thought the people were improving,
and rejoiced that she was a Latter-day Saint,
and associated with this people. Gave a few
items concerning the family of Bro. Jacob
Hamblin, and ended by praying that we might
all fill our missions. 
	Sister E. S. Taylor spoke of the necessity of
meeting together and getting comforted and
strengthened; that the Lord knows how to
mete out our trials, and will give us strength
according to our day. Exhorted all to set a
good example.
	Sister Emma Terry of Draper, Sister Julia
Pack, Sister M. Brown and Sister Nellie Cole-
brook of this city, each occupied a few minutes,
speaking upon interesting subjects to the edifica-
tion of all present.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks with sing-
ing, and benediction by Sister M. E. Kim-
ball.


[Column 1]

VARIOUS QUALIFICATIONS. 	

	Once in a while, even if very busy, random
suggestions will shoot across one's mind, that
are, perhaps, worthy of note.
	It has occurred to me many times how gener-
ally the plain qualifications of every day use-
fulness are neglected in the education of young
persons; mothers doing themselves many ordin-
ary duties because they can perform them bet-
ter and quicker than their daughters, and can-
not spare time to instruct them in these mat-
ters. I have seen a delicate lady, the mother
of eleven children, beautifully darning the
stockings for her grown up daughters, while
they were practising their music lessons. I
wanted to express myself, but had to "hold in,"
as I was not on sufficiently intimate terms to
take such a liberty.
	I often ask myself, "Why should a girl
marry until she knows something of house-
keeping? I know of young wives who have
wasted enough bread in their first year of
housekeeping to have fed them another year;
bread that was quietly conferred to the pail at
the back door for a neighbor's pig. Why
should a girl hire out and receive good wages,
when she is unqualified to cook a plain meal
There are laboring men who work hard, and

[Column 2]

furnish abundance for the pantry, yet never
see a well kept table. They will sit down op-
posite a pretty face, with carefully prepared
banged hair, and eat burned up meat, soggy
potatoes and yellow biscuit. I know of one
good natured man, who hands his beloved sixty
dollars a month to provide for the house. He
sees no end of flounces and embroideries, but
is ashamed to open his dinner pail before his
fellow workmen. I regard him as one of the
martyrs, who live unpraised, and will bear up-
on his headstone no record of his cross and
heroism.
	There seems, after all, to be in this earthly
economy a beautiful adaptation of natures,
whereby the inefficient wife is provided for by a
diligent and indulgent husband, and again,
where an economical, industrious and managing 
housewife is the prop, inspiration and savings
bank of the meagre earnings of an occasional
income through an indifferent husband. If
such couples were otherwise mated, it looks as
though one pair might go clear to the foot of
prosperity's hill while the other was resting on
the summit.
	Some years ago I heard President George Q.
Cannon say in public, that in choosing a wife
he would rather take one who could make good
bread and could not play the piano, than to
take a good pianist who could not make good
bread.
	At the time I heard this declaration I had
 no experience in eating poor bread, and sup-
posed that a good quality of that article was
an easy enough production, requiring no special
attention, and commanding no special praise,
and felt it almost an affront to my sex that we
must all be expected to qualify ourselves in
cooking especially as I had a particular aver-
sion to kitchen work. Of course I had forgot-
ten an ignominious experiment of mine some
years before, which brought about my dismissal
from the pantry, and remanded me to the sew-
ing room. I have since learned the real merit
of President Cannon's remarks, and know that
that brief portion of his sermon, if cultivated
by every household, where needed, would be-
come a universal blessing. I recall a visit
once made to a lady who was a frequent guest
of my mother's; one whom we thought much
of. She was nearly all the time in delicate
health and in a state of despondency. Her
case seemed very sorrowful to me, for I was
much attached to her personal and mental at-
tractions. One day I visited her, and her help
being absent, she cooked the dinner—one to be
remembered. As she took the bread from the
oven, and turned it out of the baking pan to
cool for dinner, I remarked: "It is not quite
done through, is it?" and she replied: "No; I
always bake it underdone, good bread gets
eaten up so quick." The dinner began with
an Irish stew, and her husband, after tasting
his, soliloquized, drolly: "Two pounds of beef,
ten potatoes, six onions and—how much Scotch
—Adeline?" I never wondered afterward at
her poor health, and remember making a rush
for the pantry when I got home. Imagine the
effect of such a cook upon the health of an in-
valid.
	It has come to my notice upon several occas-
ions how needful it is for hired nurses to be
able to prepare tastefully and economically the
food for the sick room. Very often the hus-
band is a poor man, and the matter is of great-
consequence to him that the few delicacies he
can afford be used to the best possible advan-
tage. The success of the physician, too, de-
pends much upon the cook. I very much fear
that when the doctor and cook are in opposite
scales, the doctor's chances are with the patients
—downwards. I do pity the doctor, when his
or her reputation hangs as much, perhaps, upon
the cook's performances as upon his or her own
ability and anxious endeavors.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LITTLE HOUSEKEEPERS.

	In the large cities of the Union benevolent
ladies have established what are called "kitchen
gardens." That means a school where little
girls are taught to keep house. They are the
daughters of the very poor people, mostly
foreigners. Their mothers from over the sea
had frequently not any decent houses even to
live in, and so they knew nothing about our
kind of neat Yankee housekeeping.
	The ladies gather up the dirty, ragged,
hungry little girls from the streets and tene-
ment rooms where they live so wretchedly.
They are first bathed, scrubbed from head to
foot, combed, and then given some food. After
that they come every day to the housekeeping
school. They are given luncheon. The change
that takes place in them is wonderful. They
become neat, orderly and ladylike. They soon
begin to try to tidy up their wretched homes,
and in many instances whole families become
happier and more prosperous, just because the
little daughter goes to the kitchen garden.
	At the close of their school for the summer,
the girls have an exhibition showing what they
have learned. They have miniature tables,
tiny dishes and little beds and mattresses—all
the furniture and belongings of a house, and
with these they practice till they are first-class
workers and housekeepers.
	When they have finished the course of in-
struction, the children are given diplomas, and
are regular graduates. It is a very useful sort
of learning they have, too. A class graduated
in Chicago not long ago, whose exhibition the
newspaper men went to see. The class con-
sisted of twenty-four little girls, ranging in
age from 12 to 15, and representing almost
every European country. Their long white
pinafores, fluted muslin caps, and prim little
ties gave them an appearance that was very re-
freshing. They entered the room in single
file to a military march, carrying miniature
tables and boxes. In the latter were linen,
cutlery and small table furniture. Brought to
a halt, the teacher put the little housewives
through a catechism like this:
	"How often should a room be swept?"
	"Thoroughly once a week," answered a wee
bit of a Swede with a voice bigger than her-
self.
	"What kind of a broom is best for the cor-
ners and edges of a room?"
	"Whisk broom," sang out a maid with yellow
pig-tails, who seemed to be having her throat
sawed by the well laundried tie under her
chin.
	"Why is a dust rag better than a feather
duster?"
	"Because the feathers scatter the dust instead
of gathering it."
	"After this part of the programme the girls
took out their little table cloths, the piano
struck up a series of popular tunes, and the
board was spread beautifully.
	Before the beds were made the class had an
oral recitation, one question being: "What
three things are necessary for nice bed mak-
ing?" The answer being: "Level mattress,
smooth clothes and square corners. Then the
mattresses were whipped into shape, the pillows
knocked into form, and in an incredibly short
time every bed was flat and smooth, and the
children retired under a murmur of applause.
On their return they carried trays, with which
they went through a series of pretty maneu-
vers. Dishes were washed, and after the
place was "tidied up," brooms were used for
an exercise in calisthenics. The visitors ap-
plauded the neat and pretty girls and were de-
lighted.
	It takes two years to learn all the things in
the course. Cooking and laundry work are
part of it, and the girls learn to bake bread

[Column 2]

and cake, and iron muslin and laces that are
as beautiful as the prettiest picture.
	As soon as they get their diplomas there are
always ladies waiting to hire them to work.
Their teacher keeps a list of these, and they
go directly from the kitchen garden into good
places. They know all the branches of house-
keeping, so they can be cooks, laundress, cham-
bermaids, nurses, or dining room girls. They
also learn plain sewing. They get better
wages than ordinary houseworking girls can,
because they know their business so perfectly.
But that is always the way. They keep house
so nicely that it is like poetry to look at them
and their homes.
	No girl can get a diploma unless she under-
stands reading and writing and arithmetic. It
would be a good plan for rich girls to attend
such schools, too.—Ex.


[Column 1]

CANDIES AND CREAMS.

	A cream made of confectioner's sugar is the
basis of uncooked candies. Take a good sized
bowl, and break into it the white of one, two
or more eggs, and add to it an exactly equal
quantity of cold water Then stir in confec-
tioner's sugar slowly until you have it stiff
enough to be moulded into shape by the fin-
gers. Flavor to taste with any essence liked
best. Vanilla is always safe. Mould the
paste into balls about the size of a large mar-
ble, or lozenge-shapes, and lay upon a platter
or waxed paper to dry.
	Flavor a part of the French cream made
with peppermint or winter-green essence to
taste, mould into lozenges, set to dry, and you
will have three varieties of candy finished.
Mould some of the cream flavored with vanilla
into balls about the size of a twenty-cent piece,
have ready some English walnuts, cracked
so as to divide nicely in halves, and press half
of the nut on each side of the ball of cream.
Set to dry, and they will be ready to eat in a
few hours.
	Chocolate creams are a favorite kind of
candy. To make, mould small bits of cone
shape, and set to dry. Melt some baker's
chocolate in a bowl set over a boiling tea-ket-
tle. When the creams are dry, take them one
by one on a hair pin or fork, and roll in the
melted chocolate until thoroughly coated. Set
aside to dry. Should the chocolate cool be-
fore you have finished, place over the tea-ket-
tle again, or better still, stand it while using in
a pan of hot water.
	Another delicious variety may be made by
working into the cream the juice and grated
rind of an orange. Should the juice make the
French cream too thin, add more sugar before
moulding into shape. Make into balls the size
of a hickory nut. Lemon creams may be made
in the same way, by substituting lemon juice
and rind for orange.
	Another kind of sweet is easily made by re-
moving the seeds from the nicest and freshest
of dates, and inserting in place of the seed a
long narrow roll of the French cream, and
closing the date over it. Fig creams may be
made in the same way, or by cutting the figs
into four or five length-wise strips, and insert-
ing them in a piece of the cream moulded in
an oblong shape, and then cut open and closed
over the fig.
	Most melting candies may also be made by
using fruit jellies and jam (especially currant
and plum jelly and berry jam) or pine-apple
preserves. Cut the fruit into small squares or
oblongs, and inclose it in a coating of the
cream; or make squares of the cream, and
press a small square of the jelly against it be-
fore drying. A tempting candy is made by
making the cream into cakes about half-an-
inch thick (which may be done with a rolling-
pin on a marble slab, or making it into a flat
ball, laying it on a platter, and patting it un-

[Column 2]

til of the right thickness. Make each bar
about three inches long, and spread with a
layer of jelly or jam; place on this another
layer of the cream, then a layer of the filling
and then one of the cream. Press well to-
gether, and set to dry. If desired, this candy
may be cut into squares. In either case trim
the edges smoothly with a sharp knife, so that
they may not have a ragged look.
	In making cocoanut creams use, if possible,
fresh cocoanut; if not, the best brand of desic-
cated. If fresh cocoanut is used, prepare it the
day before using. While mixing the French
cream, and before making it thick with the
sugar, stir in the cocoanut, then add more sugar,
and mould until the cream is stiff enough to
make into balls or cakes. If you like, some of
the creams may be colored pink, and then
rolled in grated cocoanut before set to dry.
These are very pretty-looking candies. Grated
maple sugar added to the French cream, and
moulded into squares, also make a toothsome
candy.
	A nut candy, which is a great favorite with
most children, is made by chopping several
kinds of nuts, say almonds, walnuts, and but-
ternuts, fine. Make a soft cream, and stir in
the nuts. Then add enough sugar to mould
into shape. Make into large squares or bars,
and wrap in waxed paper to keep fresh. Fruit
candy, which is not as rich as the nut candy,
is made in the same way. Currants, raisins
seeded figs, and a very small quantity of citron,
chopped together. make a very nice fruit mix-
ture to put with the French cream. Make in-
to balls; or use first a bar of the cream, then a
layer of the fruit, as in the jelly candies. If
you wish to color any of your candy brown,add
melted chocolate.
	Of boiled candies, perhaps none is liked so
well as molasses candy and molasses taffy. If
the following recipe is followed exactly, success
is promised every time. Two cups of sugar,
four cups molasses. Use the same sized cup to
measure both molasses and sugar. Two small
table-spoonfuls of butter, two table-spoonfuls
of glycerine. Put into a kettle, and boil fast
twenty-five minutes. Take care not to scorch.
At the end of the time for boiling, put a few
drops in cold water. If it hardens and is brit-
tle, remove from the stove. Have ready be-
fore the candy stops boiling pans thoroughly
buttered, and just before pouring into the pans
stir in one tea spoonful of cream of tartar.
After putting into pans, pour a few drops of
lemon or vanilla on top. When cool enough,
pull until white, and make into sticks. Half
this quantity will make enough for a small
family.
	Taffy is made by boiling hard one cup of
molasses, one cup of sugar, and a small table-
spoonful of butter. After boiling twenty
minutes, test by dropping a little in cold water.
If it is brittle, pour into buttered pans, and
mark into squares with the back of a case
knife.
	To make peanut candy, first prepare the
nuts by taking off the shells and the brown
skin that covers them. Then boil two cups of
molasses, one of brown sugar, a piece of butter
the size of a small egg, and a table spoonful of
vinegar. Boil until nearly brittle, place the
peanuts in a buttered pan, pour the candy over
them, and cut into squares or bars.
	Butter-scotch, the most powerful rival of
taffy, is made by using a coffee cup of brown
sugar, half a cup of water, and a desert-spoon-
ful of vinegar; also a piece of butter the size of
a hickory nut. Boil twenty minutes. Pour
into buttered pans, and cut into narrow strips,
	Chocolate caramels are as popular with
grown up children as taffy and butter-scotch
with little ones. To make them, use a cup of
molasses, a cup of brown sugar, a cup of milk,
and a small table-spoonful of butter. Add to
the ingredients a table spoonful of glycerine,
as in molasses candy. Let the mixture boil


fast for twenty minutes, and when nearly done
add a cup of grated chocolate. When nearly
brittle pour into buttered pans; crease in squares
with the back of a knife when nearly cold.
Flavor, if desired, in the same way as molasses
candy. If the flavor is put into the candy
while cooking, it is lost before the candy is
cold.
	A cooked French-cream candy, which is very
nice and more economical when eggs are scarce
than the uncooked cream, may be made by
using two cups of granulated sugar, half a cup
of hot water. Put the sugar and water into
a good tin basin, and let it boil ten minutes.
Then test by dropping some from the spoon.
If it draws into threads, take the pan from the
stove, and try rolling a spoonful into a ball. If
it is creamy and moulds easily, pour into a
bowl and flavor. If it will not cream when
first taken from the stove, boil two or three
minutes longer. After it is poured into the
bowl, beat rapidly with a large spoon until it
all creams. This cream may be rolled or cut
with a knife into any shape desired, and be
used as the foundation of many kinds of can-
dies, in the same way as the uncooked cream.
If in working the cream gets too cold, set the
bowl in a pan of hot water.—Mrs. Henry
Brown in Cosmopolitan.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DANCING IN THE WHITE HOUSE.

	Since Mrs. Cleveland has returned home it
has turned out that she went to New York, to
shop and buy dresses. The report is that the
new dresses have been ordered without train,
or dancing length, as the dressmakers say; and,
what is more startling yet, it is said that Mrs.
Cleveland intends giving one or two dancing
parties in the White house as soon as the offi-
cial mourning for Arthur is over. Mrs. Cleve-
land is passionately fond of young folks' society.
She loves to dance, and enjoys all the pleasures
of young debutantes. She is not much more
than a debutante herself, because she went to
Europe just after leaving school, and came
back to America to be married. She has had
no chance to go into society, and she intends to
do so this winter, and her friends think she is
right.
	When the subject of dancing parties was
broached to the President he would not listen
to it. Then Mrs. Cleveland got out some old
books showing pictures of dancing in the exe-
cutive mansion during former Presidents' terms,
and finally she mentioned that a stately minuet
or square dance would be no harm, and finally
she carried her point with the President, as she
always does. Naturally, there is much flutter
in society over the rumor that there will be
dancing parties at the white house, and many
say they will not believe it until they receive
invitations.—Ex.


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Kaysville, Nov. 8th, 1886, Alice Ellison, wife
of John Ellison, of consumption. Deceased was born at
Waddington, Yorkshire, England, Nov. 25th, 1820. Was
baptized in July; 1838, by H. C. Kimball. Emigrated to
Nauvoo in the spring of 1841; shared in the persecutions in
common with the Saints; crossed the plains in 1852; settled
in Kaysville, Davis Co., Utah, 1853. She was the mother
of eleven children, seven of whom still live to mourn her
loss. She suffered much pain during her last sickness; she
was confined most of the time to her room nine weeks pre-
vious to her death. Her family were kind and loving, and
rendered her every assistance in the hour of affliction.
Sister Ellison was President of the Teachers in the Relief
Society from their organization; was always at the meet-
ings whenever her health would permit. She was truly an
example to her sisters with whom she met from time to
time. She often bore a faithful testimony to this great
work, and the Prophet Joseph Smith as being a man of

[Column 2]

God. Her faith in the Gospel was firm and unshaken up
to the last time she ever spoke to the sisters: she was full
of the Spirit of God, and bore a faithful testimony, and
said she knew that this work in which we were engaged
was the work of God, and that the Saints, if they proved
faithful, would overcome the world. The same day, in
private conversation, she said she felt she had not done her
duty in bearing her testimony to the truth of celestial
marriage. She said she knew that principle was as just
and true as any other principle which had been revealed 
from heaven, "and it cannot be doubted." She felt glad
that she had lived in that principle for a number of years.
She has gone to a higher sphere, and to mingle with those
that have gone before, yet her memory will still live in the
hearts of the sisters of the Relief Society. She leaves a
husband, seven children, twenty-eight grandchildren and
nine great-grandchildren to mourn her loss. Rest in
peace, dear sister, until we meet again, when our parting
will be no more.
		SARAH B. LAYTON.

	At a recent meeting of the Relief Society of American
Fork, a committee was appointed to draft Resolutions of
Respect and condolence to the memory of our dear friend
and sister, Alice Greenwood, First Counselor to the Presi-
dent of the Relief Society, who died at this place Nov.
13th, 1886, after a lingering illness of nearly two years,
which she bore with great faith and fortitude, manifesting
throughout a strong reliance on the promises of the Lord
made to the faithful; her mind was clear to the end, and
her faith in the Gospel bright and unwavering, and when
her vitality was exhausted, she sweetly fell asleep without
a struggle, thus fulfilling the promise, that to the righteous
death is sweet. Sister Greenwood has been identified with
the Relief Society since its organization, and has been a
great comfort and support to the President in her capacity
of Counselor. She was among the early Saints who were
compelled to flee from Nauvoo, having at that time three
small children. She endured many privations incident to
the journey. She came to Salt Lake City in the second
company of 1847, resided four years in the city, and then
removed with her family to American Fork, which she
assisted in founding, and has been affectionately associated
with the interests of that place up to the time of her
demise. She was the mother of fourteen children, twelve
of whom she saw honorably married, one having died in
infancy, and one while on a mission to help the emigration
across the plains.
	The funeral was held on the 15th inst., at the meeting
house, when, notwithstanding the extreme severity of the
weather, there was a large attendance. The body was
borne to the meeting house by her seven sons and five son-
in-laws, followed by the family, and accompanied by the
Relief Society in procession, and numerous friends. Words
of comfort and consolation were given to the mourners by
the brethren who took part in the services.
	The following resolutions were unanimously adopted by
the Relief Society:
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father to call to a
higher sphere our beloved sister, Alice Greenwood, there-
fore, be it 
	Resolved, That we, the Relief Society of American Fork,
do sincerely mourn the loss of our beloved sister, and feel
to tender our sympathy and condolence to the husband
and numerous relatives who are called upon to lay down
an affectionate wife and mother, and with them we ac-
knowledge the hand of an Almighty God in our bereave-
ment; and;
	Resolved, That we do fully appreciate her services, and
her untiring devotion as a co-laborer, as worthy of respect
and emulation; and,
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of our sister
the loss of a faithful and efficient officer of our Society; but
we feel comforted in the assurance that she enjoys the rest
of the faithful, and we look forward to the time when the
grave will give up its dead, and a reunion take place with
those we love, when earth will be purified and become the
glorious home of the redeemed.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be placed
upon our records, that one be tendered the bereaved family,
and one sent to the EXPONENT for publication.
		CHARLOTTE SHELLEY,
		ELLEN D. CLARKE,
		JEMIMA DURRANT,
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Committee.

	Another soul has gone to rest,
		Another faithful spirit flown;

[Column 3]

	Gone now to dwell among the blest,
		Where there's no grief nor sorrow known.

	Not alone a lasting memory
		Will her faithful deeds procure,
	But in God's celestial mansion,
		Eternal recompense is sure.

	Though hard it seems to part with friends,
		Yet we've the sweet assurance given,
	That ties so dear we form on earth,
		Will reunite in heaven.

			M. E. S. ABEL.
American Fork.


DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS 
	 Agent for RUMSEY's celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on a short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to. 
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306 SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z.C.M.I. 
SALT LAKE CITY., Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
			MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, 
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 
	We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west. 
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt. 

Special to the Ladies. 

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions 

in 
LACES, RUSHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre

For Sale at this Office. 

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW. 

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,   - 	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c.		"	 POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,      - 		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 	1.25		"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow, 
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -  	1.50		"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

