Wisher." Vol. 2, No. 10, was read by Mrs. Sarah
Forbush. It contained some good articles, and
was well read, followed by a recitation, "The Gam-
bler's Wife," by Laura Thayne; essay, "Obedi-
ence to Parents," by Ellen C. Anderson; singing
by the choir, "Utah, the Queen of the West;"
recitation, Martha Brady, a poem by Mrs. M. J.
Tanner, Dedicated to Mrs. Martha Nichols, and
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT of August
15th, 1886; Questions and Answers by Lillie Moul-
ton and Ellen Lundberg; select reading by Mrs.
Harriet Phillips, "Sketch of Amanda Smith;"
song, by Mary A. Ball and Mary Richards, "He
is Coming Home To-night;" essay, by Mrs. Mary
A. Smart, "The Life of Christ;" song by the
choir, "Beautiful Day." Prayer by Elder Charles
Sharp. Afternoon session: After the usual exer-
cises, the meeting was devoted to speaking, and
addresses were made by Mrs. E. B. Wells, Miss
Nellie Colebrook and Dr. Maggie C. Shipp of this
city, Mrs. Elizabeth Richards, Counselor Della
Brady, the Bishop's Counselor, Marian Brady and
Elder Charles Sharp; also President Sarah Bux-
ton. Meeting dismissed by Coun. M. Brady.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

HANNAH TAPFIELD KING.

"Remember me in days to come,
	When I'm not here—
And think of me as just gone home
	To that bright sphere."

	The verse I have quoted above is from a poem
entitled, "Testementary," written many years ago
by the subject of this sketch.
	DIED, at the Spencer House in this city, Satur-
day afternoon, September 25th, 1886, Mrs. Han-
nah T. King, widow of the late Thomas King.
Deceased, whose maiden name was Tapfield, was
born in Cambridge, England, March 16th, 1807 and
was married to Thomas King April 6, 1824. Mrs.
King was the mother of ten children, three of
whom are still living. She passed away peaceful-
ly after much pain and suffering, at the residence
of her daughter, Mrs. C. V. Spencer, having been
removed there from her own home, Dernford
House, a few weeks ago, that she might have the
comfort of the constant presence and gentle care
and attention of her loving daughter. It was
thought then that she would rally and recover
when the cooler weather came, and return to her
own home, to which she was fondly attached,
having resided there ever since her arrival in the
valley in 1853.
	The name of Hannah T. King is familiar to all
the readers of the EXPONENT, for she was a regu-
lar contributor to its columns, and the other papers
and magazines of this city had many contributions
in both prose and poetry, from her ready pen and
prolific brain. Mrs. King was also very well
known as a public speaker; her voice was often
heard in the semi-monthly meetings of the sisters
in this city, and her presence there will be greatly
missed. On great public occasions, when the
women of Zion have assembled in mass meeting,
or in any special gathering for the purpose of 
memorializing Congress, or protesting against
wrongs or injustice, Mrs. King has always taken
an active part.
	In the early days in Utah Mrs. King was a mem-
ber of the Polysophical Society, a literary or-
ganization, that held its meetings at the residence
of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, who, at that time, re-
sided in this city. There she became acquainted
with men and women of talent and intellectual 
ability, and formed bonds of friendship which

[Column 2]

have continued strong and permanent up to the
present time.
	In England, before Mrs King became a Latter-
day Saint, she was known as a writer, and had
formed the acquaintance of the celebrated poetess,
Eliza Cook, with whom she had for years an in-
teresting correspondence. Mrs. King was the
author of two books, that were sold by subscrip-
tion in England, entitled, "The Toilet," and "The
Three Era's." They were quite favorably no-
ticed by the English press, and for this literary
work she received much well merited praise from 
ladies and gentlemen of position and influence.
	Within the last few years Mrs. King has issued
three books, entitled, "Women of the Scriptures,"
"Songs of the Heart," and an "Epic Poem,"
which is dedicated to President John Taylor.
It is a synopsis of the rise of the Church, etc.,
beginning with the birth of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. Mrs. King's articles, whether of prose or
poetry, always seemed a part of herself. She
often said to the writer, "I write as a bird sings,
free as the air and untrammelled; I care not who
blames or praises, I sing my song for love of sing-
ing."
	Mrs. King was a great admirer of genius and
talent in others, and was familiar with the poetical,
historical and biographical works of the most
famous and eminent men and women of the age,
more especially in her native country. She was
greatly gifted in intellectual conversation, which
caused her to be sought after by young and old,
who loved intelligence. She was an ardent ad-
mirer of nature, and highly appreciated the beau-
ties of our own mountain scenery. She combined
in her character the poetic and realistic, and al-
though her mind soared to the heights of sublimi-
ty, she walked the solid earth with real practical
views of life, its cares and vicissitudes.
	She was very fond of letter writing, and when
in perfect health she entered into it with a zest
and vigor that imparted to her correspondence
such individuality that one seemed to be near her
and feel her presence while perusing her letters.
	Mrs. King received the Gospel in her home in
England, and entertained the Elders there, giving
liberally of her means, as well as dispensing
bountifully her hospitality. She loved the princi-
ples of the Gospel, and gave up home, friends, the
society of people of culture and refinement, freely
and willingly to gather to Zion, and she never for
one moment regretted the step she had taken, but
rejoiced that she had been one of the chosen ones
in this dispensation to receive the fulness of the
everlasting Gospel. The principle of plural mar-
riage never seemed to have been the severe trial
to her faith that it has been to so many women.
She received it as she did every other principle,
and never rebelled; indeed, her faith in the divini-
ty of this work, and of the mission of Joseph
Smith was of the most exalted type. When on
her way to the valley she visited Nauvoo, and had
an interview with the Prophet Joseph Smith's
mether, in whom she was much interested, and
often spoke of her interview with this distin-
guished woman as one of the events of her life. 
	Mrs. King was of a grand type of womanhood
possessing many exalted attributes of character,
and among others, strict integrity to principle, and
a laudable ambition to excel in intellectual attain-
ments, nobility of soul, and yet a spirit to yield
obedience to the laws of God, childlike and with-
out questioning. Her illness was lingering, and,
she suffered intense and agonizing pain, until her
vigorous and fine organization gave way, and for
weeks she lay prostrated, yet passive and resigned 
to go or to stay as God willed, realizing His time 
was the best time.
	Her funeral was held in the Thirteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, on Tuesday, September 28th,
and was numerously attended by kind and loving 
friends, and by the relatives who reside here; also
her only son, Thomas O. King, of Elmo, Cassia

[Column 3]

County, Idaho, who came in to be with her in her
sickness, arriving only a week previous to her
death. It seems a fitting close to a life such as Mrs
King's that it should have finished its course on
the Saturday night, the last day of the week, and
when time was entering upon the Sabbath day rest.
Quiet and peaceful and free from pain she lay on
that lovely Sabbath morning the last in September;
the struggle was over, the battle of life finished, and
she lay sweetly sleeping the last long dreamless
sleep, from which there is no waking again in this
life, nor until the morning of the first resurrec-
tion.
	Mrs. King leaves a son and two daughters, fif-
teen grandchildren and four great grandchildren,
who will have her example of integrity and up-
rightness, as well as her numerous writings to
stimulate them in the path of duty.
	Mrs. King wrote what she called "A Codicil,"
which was published in full in the EXPONENT,
April 15th, 1882, from which we make an extract
or two, as appropriate in concluding this simple
tribute to her memory.

"To only those it may concern,
	A few brief words I have to say:
Entwine no flowers around my Urn,
	Let no cold eyes behold my clay.

When death has sealed my pulses up,
	And bid my heart to cease its thrill,
When I have drained life's mingled cup,
	And eyes and heart and brain are still,
Then may some dear and treasured hand
	Enfold me in my temple robe—
And 'tis my wish—nay, more—command!
	That none death's secrets seek to probe!

"I want no one to gaze on me
	With curious, apathetic eyes—
But those who loved me, they may be
	Admitted with their fond good byes!

"I wish my Cenotaph to be
	Within the hearts of those I love;
I ask that they will shed for me
	A few sweet tears, their love to prove.

"There's nothing more I here will say,
	My dearest ones! remember me!
And heed these words—nay, more—obey,
	And see that they fulfilled shall be!


INTERESTING VISIT.

DEAR SISTER:
	I left Salt Lake City on the 10th of September.
Sister M. A. Hyde joined me at this place, and
we went to Thistle Station, where Bishop Tucker
met us with a team, and conveyed us to Fairview,
and we were received with a hearty welcome by
his kind family.
	On the 11th attended the Relief Society of that
place, M. A. Hyde presiding. Here Sister Pitch-
forth joined us, coming by way of Moroni. After
the minutes and reports of the last conference 
were read and accepted, M. A. Hyde, myself and
Sister Pitchforth addressed the sisters. In the 
afternoon attended the Young Ladies' conference,
Sister Helen Armstrong presiding. Sister M. A.
Hyde, Pitchforth, and myself and Bishop Alred
addressed the sisters. After meeting we went to 
Mount Pleasant, while Sister Hyde went on to
Spring City, on account of sickness in the family.
	In Mount Pleasant Sister Pitchforth and myself
stopped at Bishop Madsen's. The 12th, Sunday,
Sister Pitchforth and myself attended Sunday 
School, and spoke to the children, who were very
attentive. We expected to go to the general 
meeting in the afternoon, but Bishop Seeley in-
sisted on an appointment being given out that we
would speak to the  young men and women in the
afternoon, all who wished to come, then fill up
the house with older people. Of course we could 
not say no; we felt our weakness, but the Lord


greatly blessed us, and we all went home rejoicing.
After meeting we went to Spring City. Our kind
Bishop Alred and family received us with their
usual hospitality—meeting in the evening, and a
crowded house.
	On the 13th Bishop Alred took us to Ephraim,
where we were kindly welcomed by President
Peterson and family, and a delicious dinner spread
before us. At 2 o’clock we held meeting with the
sisters, M. A. Hyde presiding; Sisters M. A.
Hyde, Pitchforth, myself and President Peterson
addressing the sisters. We had a splendid meet-
ing, the gifts of prophecy, tongues and interpreta-
tion were made manifest,and we had a joyful time
long to be remembered. After meeting President
Peterson took us over to Manti, where we met so
many of our good brethren and sisters to welcome
us, we scarcely knew where to go first. The 14th,
visited the beautiful Temple in the forenoon,
Brother Folsom kindly taking us around. At 2
o’clock in the afternoon we met with the Relief
Society, M. A. Hyde, Sister Pitchforth, myself
and Brother Maiben speaking to the sisters.
	The 15th, went to Mayfield; held meeting at 10
a.m. Passed by Gunnison, as they had not got
the appointment, and Bishop Madsen and wife,
and the President of the Relief Society were all
out of town. Went on to Fayette and held meet-
ing in the evening. Sister Hyde was quite sick
that evening and did not attend meeting. Sister
Pitchforth and myself had to do all the talking.
	Next day, the 16th, a brother took us to Juab.
Took dinner with Brother and Sister Taylor. Took
the train at 2 o’clock, and arrived at Nephi in the
evening. Stopped at Sister Pitchforth’s: 17th,
attended the sister’s conference, Sister Pitchforth
presiding; and a beautiful meeting we had; we
found so many good sisters to welcome us on
every hand. 18th, attended the Primary Confer-
ence in the forenoon; in the afternoon attended
the Young Ladies’ Conference, Sister Teasdale
presiding: 19th, Sister Hyde and myself took the
train at 2 p.m. and arrived in Provo at 4 o'clock,
having had a very delightful trip, and meeting
kindness on every hand from the brethren and
sisters, and hope we have done a little good.
	I shall stop here a short time and visit my child-
ren before my return. I would like to see you, my
dear sister. God bless you, is my constant prayer.
	From your true sister,
	M. W. SNOW.
Sept. 20, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A.  & P. A. REPORTS.

	EASTERN ARIZONA STAKE.
	
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Eastern Arizona Stake was held
at Snowflake, September 10th, 1886. Prest.
Emma S. Smith presiding. After the usual
exercises, Sister Smith made opening remarks,
after which verbal reports of the branches of
Snowflake, ShowLow, Erastus and Taylor were
given by Sisters Mary H. Lawson, Harriet
Whipple, Clarissa Wilhelm and Elizabeth
Hawkins. The reports showed some improve-
ment, but sickness had been prevalent, and so
many deaths occuring, caused the people to
feel somewhat downcast. The presiding offi-
cers of the Stake, and also of the branches,
were presented, and sustained by unanimous
vote. The statistical and financial reports of
twelve branches were read.
	Sisters Jemima W. Smith, Elizabeth Pulsi-
pher and Mary Savage addressed the meeting,
and gave much good counsel and encourage-
ment to the sisters. Felt that unless we are
humble and prayerful we will not be able to
pass through the trials which are coming upon
the Saints.
	Prest. Emma S. Smith spoke upon the
good results obtained from having Relief So-
ciety meetings, and gave some instructions

[Column 2]
in regard to the manner of conducting them.
Counseled the mothers to teach their children
the principles of the Gospel, to make their
homes pleasant and agreeable, and to endeavor,
by divine assistance, to faithfully discharge the
duties of wife and mother.
	Prest. Jesse N. Smith made some remarks,
Expressed good wishes for the sisters in their
various walks of life, and encouraged them to
continue faithful in the work. Regarded the
training of children as a very pleasant task,
yet one which requires considerable patience,
care and study. Prayed the Lord to abundant-
ly bless us in our labors.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing. Benediction pronounced by Brother
Samuel H. Rodgers.
	DELLA FISH, Stake Secretary.

	TOOELE STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associa-
tions of Tooele Stake was held in the meeting
house at Tooele, Saturday and Sunday, Sept-
11th and 12th. Present from Salt Lake City,
Sisters Horne and Taylor. Coun. Emily War-
burton presided at the R. S. Conference on
Saturday morning, the President, Mrs. M. A.
Hunter being detained at home on account of
sickness. After singing, prayer was offered
by Bishop Atkin. Meeting continued by sing-
ing. Minutes of previous conference were
read and accepted; also reports from the several
branches in the Stake.
	Coun. Warburton made a few opening re-
marks.
	Sister Horne referred to the presence of the
brethren as an encouragement. Spoke of the
critical times, and that the Lord would have
a tried people. Said we should be honest with
each other, and the Lord in His own due time
would overrule all things for the best. Gave
good counsel to mothers, exhorted them to set
a good example, and to cultivate the intellect
of the children at home, and not to train
them up in the fashions of the world. Gave
advice to the Presidents of the Relief Society
present in regard to their duties.
	Sister Taylor spoke of the individual work
that each one must do for herself, and the
duties to be performed. Said, "This is a try-
ing time; we must go to the Lord with our
troubles, and ask Him to give us His Spirit.
Counsel our children to keep good company
and not associate with those who are not of
our faith, to keep the Sabbath day holy, and
not go on excursions on that day, but to attend
Sunday School and meetings, and the Lord
will bless us."
	Prest. H. S. Gowans endorsed the remarks
of the sisters, and spoke for a short time on
very interesting subjects.
	Meeting adjourned until afternoon. Benedic-
tion by S. W. Owens.
	The P. A. convened at 2 p.m. The Prest.,
Mrs. Sarah Hale, not being able to attend on
account of sickness, Coun. Mary Ann Atkin
presided. A great many of the boys and girls
rendered songs and recitations in a very able
manner, showing that the President of the
Tooele Primary, Mrs. Jane Bowen, and her
Counselors had taken a great deal of interest
in training the little folks. After the children's
exercises were finished the sisters addressed
them in an interesting manner.
	In the evening the Y. L. Associations held
their conference, Mrs. Ann Tate presiding. Af-
ter the usual exercises, the sisters from the city
addressed the young ladies in a very able man-
ner, entreating them to live their religion and
honor their standing as Latter-day Saints.
	Coun. W. H. Lee, who had just emerged
from prison, where he had been sent for con-
science' sake, spoke to the young people, giv-
ing much good counsel.

[Column 3]
	After singing and prayer, conference was
then adjourned until December next, to meet
at Grantsville.
	On Sunday morning the sisters from Salt
Lake attended Sabbath School, and addressed
the young girls and children on living lives of
Latter-day Saints, and gave much excellent in
struction.
	In the afternoon the Relief Society confer-
ence was continued, after the opening exercises
and the administering of the sacrament.
	Mrs. Horne was the first speaker. She read
the revelation from the Doctrine and Covenants
given July, 1830, and spoke for some time up-
on the matter pertaining thereto.
	Mrs. Taylor followed, giving good advice
and urging all to the performance of every
duty.
	Prest. Gowans endorsed all that had been
said, and made a few remarks calculated to en-
courage the sisters.
	Coun. Warburton adjourned the conference
for three months, to be held at Grantsville.
The choir sang an anthem, and the meeting
was dismissed with prayer by Bishop Atkin.
	ANN TATE, Cor. Sec. R. S.

	SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of this Stake was held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Thursday, September
16th; commencing at 10 a.m., Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne presiding. After singing, prayer was
offered by Mrs. M. W. Wilcox. Singing again,
and roll called by Secretary, to which twenty-
six presidents, six counselors and one secretary
responded. Minutes of previous conference
were read and accepted. Forty reports were
read from the various branches in the county.
	Prest. Horne expressed herself much pleased
with the representation present, and the good
number of reports; was also pleased that the
donations to the Hospital had been paid up by 
so many branches, and thought that those who
had been dilatory should attend to this matter.
The Lord had stirred up the hearts of the peo-
ple, and they had donated liberally for the
wants of the poor. "Now that the harvest is
on hand let us be diligent and see that we con-
tinue to gather wheat; we will want a good deal
to feed the number of people that will flee to
Zion." Hoped the teachers would have the
spirit of their missions when they visited from
house to house. Counseled mothers to see that
the children were properly taught to keep the
Sabbath day and all God's commandments,
and made other good remarks.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor thought there was an im-
provement in the reports, and urged the secre-
taries to keep their books properly; thought
we should have great pleasure in our labor if
it was well done. "We make wiser and better
mothers and wives when we educate ourselves
in everything that is for our benefit." Hoped
each of us would be wise enough to purify our-
selves so as to be able to stand when the day
of burning comes.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said, "We will have an
interesting conference, I think, and we should
try to profit by what we hear; we seem to be
slow to learn, but I hope we will go on increas-
ing in good works and in intelligence and wis-
dom; let us put away everything that is evil
from us.
	Mrs. L. G. Richards spoke concerning the
Y. L. M. I. A. Conference to-morrow. The
young ladies had voted that they would come
to conference fasting that day, asking the
Lord for a large outpouring of His Spirit up-
on them, that good might be the result.
	Meeting adjourned till 2 p.m. Singing.
Benediction by Mrs. S. S. Young.
	Afternoon session: Usual exercises. Prayer
offered by Mrs. B. W. Smith. Mrs. Rachel
R. Grant was the first speaker; thought there


[Column 1]
﻿never was a time since the organization of the
Church that the adversary was doing his best
as he is now to overthrow the work of the
Lord.  Referred to having read the different
testimonies of several who had left the Church;
it caused her to feel we should be very careful
and watchful of our words.  "We want to have
charity one to the other, and not repeat at all
times what we hear.  The principle of celes-
tial marriage is the only one in which we can
gain an everlasting exaltation.  We all have
our human nature to contend with, and we
have a great work to do to save ourselves; we
are all in a school, and the better we conduct
 ourselves, it will be better for us hereafter.  If
we had kept the commandments of God, we 
should not be in the trouble we are at this
time, but we must acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in all things."
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball said, "It seems to me we 
are all hungering and thirsting for the things
of the kingdom, and we all seem to be work-
ing members of this kingdom.  Our finances
are a small part of our labors.  I have made
 a rough estimate of what the ladies in this one
Stake control, and there are about thirty Stakes.
Let us look out for the most useful way to
spend what we have on hand, such as to beauti-
fy our hall, meeting houses and our homes.
We are to become a glory in the midst of the
earth.  The time has fully come when Zion
must arise and put on her beautiful garments;
but the Lord will keep us in the vale of hu-
mility until we know how to use the blessings
He is giving us.  When affliction comes to us
can we say, "Not my will, but Thine be done?"
If we can, as individuals and collectively, it is
well for us."
	Mrs. P. S. Kimball said, "I feel the Spirit
of the Lord is here; I hope we will learn to
pity others and learn to control ourselves; this
is our work, to control our desires and appetites;
let us not deform our bodies by following the
fashions of Babylon; let us try to do as near
right as we can while we are here in mortality.
Are our mothers training up souls for exalta-
tion out of the depths of humility?  Are we
rearing them to save souls of men and women,
by being worthy to enter the Temples of the
Lord?  If we humble ourselves, the Lord will
cause Satan to be bound, but we must become 
a humble people.  We are feeling after God
and seeking to prepare ourselves for the com-
ing of the Savior.  God will bless the Relief
Society; it is for blessing the poor and the sick.
Let us gather and save wheat, for we will re-
quire all we can get.  There is danger for
everybody while in the flesh, therefore let us
keep close to God and keep His command-
ments, and do as we would wish to be done by
to everyone.  I bless you, my sisters, in the 
name of Jesus."
	Secretary E. Howard spoke of the annoy-
ances all have to meet in some way or other,
 but thought we were getting waked up.  "Pride
is creeping among us.  The pride of education
is growing in our midst.  Many are becoming
so highly educated that they are losing the
Spirit of the Lord.  Let us humble ourselves,
that the Lord will not humble us. We need
more time for our conference. The enemy is
laying traps for our children in the excursions
and amusements. The work is accumulating,
but don't let us work too hard, but take care
of our bodies.  Let us ask our Father to bless
all we do, and let us acknowledge that all we
have and are is from Him."
	Mrs. S. B. Gibson, Mrs. E. B. Fletcher,
Mrs. Diana Ried, Mrs. Catharine Smith, Mrs.
Ann Griffiths, Mrs. M. Brady, Mrs. M. A.
Smart, Mrs. E. Hirst, each made a few re-
marks, and bore testimony to the good spirit
of the meeting, and also to the truth of the 
Gospel, expressing their interest in the work of 
the Relief Society, as well as all work in the

[Column 2]
kingdom, with an ardent desire to prove faith-
ful to the end and endure all things.
     Prest. Horne made closing remarks upon
practical matters, as well as entreating all to
live lives of holiness, laying aside pride, covet-
ousness and self-will, cultivating faith, and
feeling a full assurance that God will be with 
us.
     Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "O Jesus, the giver of all we enjoy,"
etc.  Benediction by Mrs. Rachel Whipple.

	The quarterly conference of the Primary
Associations of this Stake was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, Saturday, September
18th, beginning at 10 a.m., Mrs, Ellen C. 
Clawson presiding, assisted by her Counselor,
Mrs. L. A. Wells.  Opened by singing, "Our
Father in Heaven."  Prayer by Elder Wm.
Willis.  Singing, "When shall we meet Thee,"
etc.  Minutes of last conference were read and
accepted, and a recitation by Sophia Sorensen
given.  Reports were then read from the fol-
lowing wards: 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 7th, 8th,
10th, 12th and 13th.  Recitation by a little
girl from the 4th Ward, entitled, "The world
is for others as well as for you;"  Alice Hardy
sang, "God bless my poor old mother."  Re-
ports were read from the 15th and 16th Wards.
Recitation by a boy from the 6th Ward; song,
"Hope of Israel," by the children.  Remarks
by Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers, Prest. of the P. A.
of Davis Stake, upon attending meetings, keep-
ing the Sabbath day holy, kindness to each
other, quarreling, and touchingupon many
other topics of interest.  Class recitation by
eight little girls of the 20th Ward; recitation
by Ruby Irvine of the 19th Ward; reading by
a little girl from the 10th Ward; recitation by
a little girl of the 16th Ward.
     The President made a few remarks, and ad-
journed the meeting until 2 p.m.  Singing,
"Did you think to pray?"  Benediction by
Mrs. A. S. Rogers.
     Afternoon session: Opened by singing, "The
Primary Song."  Prayer by Mrs. H. A. Hardy.
Singing, "We're Marching Homeward."  Re-
marks by Mrs. E. Sutherland, Prest. Big Cot-
tonwood P. A.  A song from the little girls of
Union Ward, entitled, "Bessie Fair;"  Remarks
by Mrs. Terry of Draper; recitation by a little
boy from the 20th Ward, "Never give up the
right way."
	Conn. Lydia Ann Well asked the children
a few questions, and made some excellent re-
marks about prayer, improvement, and upon
the first principles of the Gospel.  Two little
boys of the 5th Ward gave a dialogue.  Re-
marks were also made by Mrs. Mary Gerber
of Granger Ward and Mrs. Minnie H. James
of the 7th Ward.  Recitations by two little
girls each from a different ward.  Mrs. C.
Smith of Draper spoke a few minutes to the
children, counseling and encouraging them in
doing right.  "The day dawn is breaking,"
was then sung by the children.  Miss Annie
McGhee of Sugar House Ward made some in-
teresting remarks.  Mrs. Frances Hanson of
Mill Creek Ward asked the children a few
questions and spoke a short time.  Minnie
James, a very little girl of the 7th Ward,
gave a recitation.  Miss Celia Sharp spoke
to the children upon order, attention and
punctuality; urged them to learn something
each day, and if once learned it would never
be forgotten.
     Prest. Clawson hoped the children would
try and remember what they had heard at this
conference, for they had really had some good
instructions; was glad to see some of the pa-
rents present; hoped they would attend, and
encourage the children.
	Conference was then adjourned for three
months.  Singing, "Hope of Israel."  Bene-
diction by Mrs. McGhee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REORGANIZATION.
	The Eighth Ward Primary met at the ward
meeting house, Sept. 21st, 1886, Prest. E. B.
Fletcher presiding.  Sisters Ellen C. Clawson
and Lydia Ann Wells were present; also Coun.
Joseph McMurrin.
	Sister E. B. Fletcher stated that the meet-
ing was for the purpose of reorganizing.  She,
through poor health, realizing her inability to
perform her duty in a creditable manner, of-
fered her resignation, which was accepted, and
a vote of thanks tendered her and her Coun-
selors, Miss Katie Spencer and Miss Lizzie
Chamberlain, for their efficient and much ap-
preciated labors in the past.
	Sister Fletcher was elected as President at
the organization, March 19th, 1879, and has,
since that time, been greatly loved and re-
spected by the children.  She felt it quite a
trial to part with the children, but circum-
stances were of such a nature that it was neces-
sary for her to resign, as she had so many du-
ties and labors to perform.

DEAR SISTER FLETCHER:

	     “May happy days be ever thine,
	     And heaven’s glory on thee shine;
	     And as the days glide swiftly past,
	     May joy attend thee to the last,"

is the sincere desire of the children.
	The officers of the Primary Association are
as follows: Sister Jane Cowan, President;
Sister Ann Cartwright and Miss Jennie Mor-
tensen, Counselors; Susie Keysor, Secretary;
Aggie McMurrin, Assistant Secretary; Sarah
McMurrin, Recording Secretary and Treas-
nrer.
	A short programme was rendered. consisting
of recitations, readings, songs, organ solos and
essays.  Prest. Jane Cowan and Counselors
each spoke a few words, expressing their desire
to do the best they could.
	Sisters Clawson and Wells, as well as Bro.
McMurrin, also spoke, giving the children
much good advice. exhorting them to be obedi-
ent and prayerful.  They also gave words of
counsel and encouragement to all present.
	Those who attended felt that they had in-
deed been well paid for so doing.  The meet-
ing was then adjourned for one week, at four
o’clock, and prayer was offered by Sister Claw-
son.
						SARAH MCMURRIN.


﻿SOME PLAIN FACTS.

	I was reading in the Deseret News the re-
marks of a "47er."  I did not think it was
 right for him to dismiss his audience without
giving the women a chance to speak; and as I
came to Salt Lake the first year following the
pioneers, and driving my team, I thought I
would add a few wordt. My mind went back
to my leaving Nauvoo, being driven out by a
mob.  My husband, during the winter of '45
'46, built us a wagon. The timber was boiled
in brine to season it.  The wheels were tied
with rawhide and hickory withes.  I was very
proud of our wagon; we did not own a team.
The mob was coming into Nauvoo, and women
and children were being taken over the river
and set down on the bank without shelter. My
family had a little shorts; no groceries of any
kind, not even salt.
     Brethren would come with their teams and
help us on a few miles, till we reached Bona-
parte, in Iowa, where we procured flour by
selling our clothing. When we stopped we
were in a wagon and tolerably comfortable,
while there were hundreds of sick without 
food or shelter on the bank of the river.
     I thought, when reading the speech of the
woman visitor to Salt Lake, offering the "Mor-


mon" women a home in New York, to get
away from polygamy: "A home indeed!" It 
made my blood boil; I thought: "before you
preach to us change your practice." In New
York City there are thirty thousand prostitutes,
with their multitudinous pimps and paramours,
"All, all honorable men."
	I embraced the Gospel in the city of New
York in 1838, and came to Nauvoo in '43.
My forefathers came to America in 1620 and
were in the war of the Revolution, quite a
number as commissioned officers; yet I, the de-
scendant of valiant men, could not vote be-
cause my husband was keeping the laws of 
God.  I visited my native state and city, New
York, in 1871, and saw so much wickedness
and evil that I felt to pray to my Heavenly
Father to keep me till I got safely back to my
Mountain home.  The people of the United
States do not care how many women the
"Mormons" have if they will do as the former
do, not marry, but make mistresses of them.
	Were we driven from New York to Ohio for
polygamy? or from Jackson, Clay, and Cald-
well Counties and out of the State of Missouri
for that alleged offense?  No, we were not.  It
was because this people are united in trying to
keep the principles laid down by all the holy
Prophets and Apostles that they were divine.
	If we are to be tried till we are perfect
through suffering let it come, I would stay in
prison till I was carried out before I would
answer some questions.—Deseret News
			 A WOMAN FORTY-SEVENER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ORGANIZATION AT SCOFIELD, 
			EMERY CO.

EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	Our Relief Society was organized in Decem-
ber 1885, Sister Elizabeth Richards President 
with Sister Alice Whimpey and Harriet Wal-
ton Counselors.  Sister Harriet Eaden, Secre-
tary and Treasurer, Sister Ella Ingles Assist-
ant Secretary.  We hold meetings every two
weeks, they are pretty well attended consider
ing the ward is in a very scattering situation. 
	Some of the sisters take the EXPONENT which
is a great blessing to us.  The people here, as
a rule, are blessed with health, which is one of
the greatest blessings the Lord can bestow on
his children.  It is indeed a trying time, not 
for one alone but all who are striving to keep
the commandments of God; but we need not
fear the final outcome, if we will only live as 
becometh saints of God.  Ever praying for
the welfare of Zion, I am, 
		Your sister in the Gospel. 
			    	 HARRIET WALTON.


Patents were issued to women during the
week ending Aug. 24th, 1886, as follows:
	Carrie J. Everson, Chicago, Ill., Concentrat-
ing Ores.
	Therese R. Fischer, Baltimore, Md., Dress
Form.
	Caroline S. Pusey, Philadelphia, Pa., Pattern
for Garments.
	Emma J. Whitman, Oakland. Cal., Com-
bined Press-board and Sleeve Pressing Frame
	Catherine A Williamson, St. Louis, Mo.,
Gasoline Stove.

	Aug. 31st, 1886 as follows:
	Sarah E. Ball, Brooklyn, N. Y., Combined
Work-table and Basket.
	Mary J. Cole, Grand Rapids. Mich., Trunk.
	Julia B. French, Boston, Mass., Tank for
Toilet, Laundry, and Refrigerating purposes.

	Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending Sept. 7. 1885, as follows:
	Clara M. Kimball, Milwaukee, Wis., Com-
position for medicating Bed-quilts.


﻿Carrie A. Munro, Olive Branch, Ohio, Va-
por bath.
	Emma J. Lawrence, Philadelphia, Pa, De-
sign for Rug.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Hot water applied to bruises will move the pain and
swelling.
	The secret of muscular recuperation is in stopping when
fatigue begins.  He or she who is not the fresher in body
and mind for the exercise taken has had an overdose of
what in proper measure would have been a benefit.  The
gain in strength is shown and felt in the increasing ability
to do more and more without exhaustion.  The measure
of success is not in the greatness of the feat accomplished,
but in the ease with which the exercise is indulged in, and
in the absence of exhaustion after it.  There are occasions
frequent enough in which people in the struggle of life are
forced beyond their powers of endurance and there is no
need to carry into the pursuit of recreation the fatigue
which exacting work imposes.
	Dr. George R. Shepherd adds his testimony to that of
many others by saying in the Medical Record:  “I have
used hot water as a gargle for the past six or eight years
having been led to do so from seeing its beneficial effects.
In acute pharyngitis and tonsillitis, if properly used at the
commencement of the attack, it constitutes one of the
most effective remedies, being frequently promptly curative.
If used later in the disease or in chronic cases, it is always
beneficial, though perhaps not so immediately curative.
To be of service it should be used in considerable quantity
(half a pint or pint) at a time, and just as hot as the throat
will tolerate.  I have seen many cases of acute disease thus
aborted, and can commend the method with great confi-
dence.  I believe it may be taken as an established fact
that in the treatment of inflammations generally, and those
of the mucous membranes in particular, moist heat is of
service, and in most cases hot water is preferable to
steam."
	The increased, and apparently increasing, frequency of
neuralgic headache among women must needs have a cause.
There is one of singular simplicity and quite obvious which
has been overlooked, and to which it is worth while to draw
attention.  The pain experienced is generally located in
one or more of the branches of the second cervical nerve,
very commonly those terminating in the scalp of the occi-
put.  As a matter of fact, the nerves of the scalp are irri-
tated by the hair being drawn tightly back and put on the
strain, not as a whole, in which case the strain would be
spread over a large area of the surface, but by small bun-
dles of hair which are pulled back and held in place by
hair-pins.  Relief is often consciously experienced as a re-
sult of removing the hair-pins, but this has only a tempor-
ary and partial effect.  The injury done is lasting if not
permanent, in its consequences.  The present style of
dressing the hair should be discontinued, as it probably, in
part at least, accounts for the extreme prevalence of a form
of suffering which is both intractable and distressing.—
The Lancet.


OBITUARY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Herewith I send you an account of the death of Sister
Annie Woods, at Woodruff, in this county, on the 15th of
last month. She was born in England, July 10th, 1837.
Her maiden name was Chandler. When sixteen years of
age she embraced the Gospel. She immigrated in 1853,
with her mother, two brothers and one sister. At New
Orleans her mother and youngest brother died of cholera.
With her remaining brother and sister she came to Utah.
In 1854 she married James T. Woods. Of their eight
children, only three reached maturity.
	She was Secretary and Teacher in the Relief Society of
the 14th Ward, Salt Lake City. In 1875 her husband was
called to Arizona, and she accompanied him thither. At
Brigham City, in said Territory, she was President of the
Young Ladies' Association. At Show Low she was Presi-
dent of the Relief Society, and was a Teacher in the Relief
Society at Woodruff. She sang regularly in the choirs
where she lived, possessing a voice of great richness and
purity of tone. Her husband was absent on a mission to 
England at the time of her demise.
				Very respectfully,
								EMMA S. SMITH.


ANNOUNCEMENT. 

	The first term of Dr. Ellis R Shipp's annual class in
Obstertrics will begin Oct. 1st, 1886. 
	Every effort has been made to place this school upon the
highest basis, and its educational facilities in this important
branch of medicine cannot be excelled.
Liberal reduction in prices will be made to any branch
of Relief Society sending students.
Those who desire to attend should commnnicate at once
with Dr E. R Shipp either verbally or by letter in order
to procure books and make necessary arrangements. For
particulars send for circulars. Office No. 18 Main St. 
Salt Lake City. Telephone 383.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE. 

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR E
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders true
the country promptly responded to. 
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 305. SALT LAKE CITY. 

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868. 

Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE, 
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We	carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt. 
Special to the Ladies. 

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS. 
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118, East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.  	 
VOL 15.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1886. 			No. 10.


[Column 1]

AN EPISTLE
OF THE
FIRST PRESIDENCY
TO TIIE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST
OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS.

Dear Brethren and Sisters:
	Six months have passed away since
we last had the pleasure of addressing
you through our General Epistle, and
we find ourselves face to face with the
Fifty-sixth Semi-Annual Conference
of the Church in this dispensation
The past six months have been very
fruitful in events in which all of us
have been deeply interested. The
season has been a healthful one; no
sickness worthy of note has affected
our people unpleasantly. The sum-
mer has been both unusually dry and
hot, and many of the crops have not
yielded as good a return as usual.
Nevertheless our land is still filled with
plenty, and man and beast have suf-
ficient to supply their wants.

PERSECUTION AND ITS EFFECTS.
	Our enemies during the past half
year have not slackened their ac-
tivity in the work of persecution. If
there has been any difference, it has been
pursued with greater vindictiveness
and more flagrant disregard of law and
justice than at any time previous.
Those who have been compelled to en-
dure the penalties inflicted upon them
have  submitted, in nearly every
instance, with a cheerful equanimity
and fortitude that must have won the
admiration of heaven and of all just
men. That which has been accom-
plished furnishes but little cause for
gratification to those who have been
engaged in the inhuman task of perse-
cuting a people for the practice of
their religion. There have been but
few persons in all who have been tried
and convicted who have felt sufficient-
ly terrified at the prospect of punish-
ment to express a willingness to accept
the rulings of the court instead of the
law of God, as the guide for their con-
sciences
	The faith of the Latter-day Saints
seems to grow stronger from these ef-
forts to destroy it; and men, women
and children who have been living in the
practice of the requirements of their
religion feel more determined than
ever to maintain their integrity and to
do all that the Lord requires at their
hands with cheerful willingness, what-
ever may be the consequences from a
worldly point of view.
	This persecution is not without its
effects upon those who have made a
pretense of being faithful members of
the Church. Iniquity is being brought
to light. The wrongdoer is being made
to feel, in a most remarkable manner,
that his sin will find him out; and the
evidence that God is pleading with and
awakening the consciences of those
who  have been  living in sin is
frequently furnished to us. There have
been many violations of the law of
God practiced among us which have
been hidden from the public gaze. The
trials through which we are passing
have the effect of causing these evils to
be brought to light. It seems as though
the Lord is tearing the covering, not
only from the nations of the earth, but
from the Latter-day Saints; and the
time is not far distant—in fact, it has
reached us already in part—when the
sinner in Zion shall tremble, and fear
shall seize upon the hypocrite.

THE PURIFICATION OF ZION.
	So far as we can learn there is an in-
creased disposition on the part of the
faithful officers of the Church to do all
in their power to cleanse the Wards and
Stakes in their charge from those who
will not conform to the requirements
of the Gospel. Greater strictness is
being shown, and the Saints who have
the love of the truth within them feel
that the time has come to put away
their follies and their sins far from

[Column 2]

them and to conform to a higher
standard of righteousness. The great,
crying sin of this generation is lasciv-
iousness in its various forms. Satan,
knowing how powerful an agency this
is in corrupting men and women, and
in driving the Spirit from them, and
bringing them under condemnation
before the Lord, uses it to the greatest
extent possible. It requires an inces-
sant warfare to check its spread and to
prevent the people of God from be-
coming its victims. No people who
practice or countenance these sins can
be accepted of the Lord or find favor
in His sight. His anger will fall upon
them unless they thoroughly and heart-
ily repent of every such evil. When
we take into consideration the teach-
ings we have received upon this sub-
ject, the holy covenants into which we
have entered, and the professions
which we make, unchastity should have
no existence among us. It is sorrow-
ful to contemplate that Satan finds
those among us who are willing to
yield to his temptations, and thus
bring misery upon themselves
and all connected with them.
We solemnly call, as we have done so
often before, upon all the officers of
the Church to set their faces like flint
against practices of this character.
Those who indulge in them must be
dealt with according to the laws of
God, and they must be made to feel
that if they do indulge in this wicked-
ness they cannot have the fellowship
of the Saints nor a standing in the
Church of Christ. If men and women
would only profit by the experience of
those who have fallen, they would re-
sist the allurements of sin and walk in
the path of righteousness. "The
wages of sin is death." The
misery which it brings upon the
guilty, and upon all connected
with them, furnishes some idea of the
dreadful condition of the wicked who
die in their sins and do not obtain the
forgiveness of their God. O! that
men and women could be warned, and
that they would turn to the Lord and
seek unto Him, humble themselves be-
fore Him, put away their sins, and
obtain His Holy Spirit to be their
guide and their companion, then no
matter what the circumstances might
be in which they were placed, they
would have the peace of heaven, the
joy of the Holy Ghost, and a con-
science void of offence towards God
and man! And this is the condition in
which every Latter-day Saint should
live.

PROPHECY FULFILLED BY THE
SITUATION.
	The circumstances which surround
us, though in many respects painful
and trying,are not such as to discourage
the faithful Saint. We have been
taught to expect just such scenes as
these through which we are passing,
or, at least, just such opposition as we
now have to contend with. What we
now behold is in direct fulfilment of
the predictions of God's servants to us
in this generation, and unless these
events take place His word could not
be fulfilled.
	Not only have the Prophets in our
day spoken about the events which
should take place in connection with
the latter-day work and the opposition
it would have to contend with, but the
Prophets of old foretold with accuracy
and minuteness that the people of God
should be few and their dominions
should be small,because of the wicked-
ness  of  "the great whore"  which
should make war against them.  But
notwithstanding that the multitudes of
the earth should fight against the
Church of the Lamb of God, the power
of God would descend upon the Saints
and upon His covenant people; and
they should be armed with righteous-
ness and with the power of God and
great glory. The scenes in which we
are now taking part were known to
men of God,by the spirit of revelation,
thousands of years ago. But while
they predicted the troubles and diffi-
culties with which the people of God
would have to contend in the last days,
in every instance they broke out in

[Column 3]

language of encouragement respecting
the result of the struggle and predicted
the complete triumph of God's kingdom
over all the opposing powers of evil.
Therefore, in this contest which is
forced upon us we do not wage a de-
fense that is hopeless. The God of
heaven is on our side. He has made
promises to Zion which cannot fail.
He is mightier than all of earth's
hosts, and by His wonderful provi-
dence can bring to pass, in His own
way, the fulfilment of all the words of
His inspired servants. Upon this
foundation we can rest secure. No
weapon that is formed against Zion
can prosper; and every tongue that
shall rise against her in judgment shall
be condemned. Our enemies gloat
over the prospect of our destruction.
Even those who feel inclined to be
friendly can see no prospect for our
deliverance except by the aban-
donment of our religion. But
it is better for us to die than
to abandon our God! We cannot do
this without throwing away all hope
respecting the future and the great
eternity that awaits us. We know that
there is no faithful Latter-day Saint
who feels for one moment like yielding
to the demands of the wicked. Our
religion is given to us from our God.
We have received it by the revelations
of Jesus to us. When all the world
was in darkness and struggling and
contending about doctrines and ordi-
nances, He condescended to restore
the Everlasting Priesthood from the
heavens and His Gospel in its purity
and fulness and power. We were left no
longer to grope in the dark and to
follow the traditions of our fathers
or the false teachings of uninspired
men. The path of salvation
was plainly marked before us, con-
firmed to us by the unerring testimony
of God's Holy Spirit. Our souls, in
walking in that path, have been filled
with ineffable joy and peace. While
others who have rejected the truth
have been apprehensive and fear-
ful concerning the events that
were taking place and that were likely
to take place, we have had a peace, a
satisfaction of mind, and a content-
ment that have made our position
unique. God has given unto us the
fruits of His Gospel in great abun-
dance. We behold them in our family
organizations. We behold them in our
Wards, and in our Stakes, and in our
entire Church. His blessing has
visibly rested upon us, and
His power has been displayed
in our behalf. Every faithful
Latter-day Saint has rejoiced in the
abundance of the gifts of the Spirit
which He has bestowed; and no prom-
ise that was made to the ancient
Saints, or that has been made to us,
upon the condition of our faithfully
obeying the Gospel, has been withheld
from us. We have been a people
greatly blessed of the Lord, and our
hearts should swell with gratitude and
thanksgiving to our God for His abun-
dant mercies.

SHOULD BEAR EACH OTHERS BURDENS
	We again call upon the Presidents of
Stakes and the Bishops of Wards to
look carefully after the wants of all
who are within their jurisdiction and
stand in need of assistance. Espe-
cially should the families of those who
are in prison, or who have been com-
pelled to flee, or who are upon mis-
sions, be tenderly cared for. They
need both aid and sympathy. Those
upon whom the heavy hand of persecu-
tion does not personally rest should be
willing to share the burdens of their
afflicted brethren and sisters, by con-
tributing to the comfort and susten-
ance of those who are de-
prived  of  the  society  and  guid-
ance of husbands and fathers
for righteousness' sake. By so doing
they will lay up treasures in heaven,
and share the reward for these trials.
The weight of this persecution falls
upon the women and children. De-
prived of the presence and support of
their husbands and fathers; upon
whom they have been accustomed to
rely, they are comparatively helpless

[Column 4]

and naturally a prey to deep anxiety.
The care and training of the children
thus bereaved devolves upon their
mothers,whose burden is made doubly
heavy to bear. The Teachers should be
particularly diligent in visiting such
families, and in watching over their
welfare. Thus the hands of the moth-
ers should be strengthened, the young
encouraged, the wayward admonished,
and the heroic example of the heads of
those households held up for admira-
tion; aud everything possible should
be done to make their situation tolera-
ble and pleasant. In this way we can
bear each other's burdens, and so ful-
fil the law of Christ, and witness to
our God and to the world, that though
we may not personally suffer persecu-
tion, our sympathy and faith are with
those who are afflicted for adherence
to their religion, and that we are ready 
and willing to do our part and mani-
fest our devotion to the cause of
Christ.

JUDICIAL PERVERSION AND 
OPPRESSION.
	The District Courts of Utah still
pursue their extreme, vindictive and
unrelenting course. The law is per-
verted, not justly administered; [---]e
object appears to be, not the ma[---]-
nance of social purity nor the rectifica-
tion of alleged evil, but the oppression
and distress of individuals because of
their religious position. The Latter-
day Saints are under the most sacred
obligations to do the will of God. At the
same time they wish to obey every
valid law of the land. But by the
strained interpretation and the unwar-
rantable application of the Edmunds
Act, men are made offenders because
of their religious scruples, and ren-
dered criminals when they are not
fairly amenable to the law. Defend-
ants who, according to the evidence,
have only lived with one wife, are
"presumed" to have cohabited with
another wife, and thus are convicted
of "cohabiting with more than one
woman," when the presumption is
obliterated by the proof.
	In other cases when parties, in their
desire to observe the requirements of
the Edmunds Act, have privately
agreed to the voluntary relinquishment
of association as husband and wife,
the husband has not escaped, the ven-
geance of the law. Though there are
numbers of instances where such par-
ties have honestly endeavored to live
within the law, yet whenever indict-
ments have been found, husbands have
almost invariably been convicted and
sentenced to the full penalties of fine
and imprisonment. We take this op-
portunity of recording our high appre-
ciation of the spirit of self sacrifice
which has been manifested by our
sisters throughout the entire crusade.
They have shown a fortitude, a cour-
age, a devotion and love which must
be the admiration of posterity. They
have not faltered in their devotion to
the principles of righteousness, have
not shrunk from the consequences at-
tending obedience to God's law, and
have been a source of strength and en-
couragement to their sons, their hus-
bands and their fathers. There are
numerous instances which have come
to our knowledge of wives offering to
make the most heroic sacrifices to save
their husbands from the penalties of
the law.
	Contrary to the jurisprudence of
centuries, legal wives are compelled,
under threats of imprisonment, to tes-
tify against their lawful husbands and
disclose family secrets that should
never be bared to the public eye. This
is a gross violation of the law under
which they act, and opposed to rec-
ognized public polity and family rights.
And by the system of "segregation" an
offense which, according to the law, is
punishable at the utmost extent by six
months' imprisonment and a fine of $300
is multiplied into many offenses and
the  full  sentence inflicted for each
fraction of that offense.
	The plan of finding several indict-
ments for the one offense has been dis-
carded and the scheme adopted of
making several counts in the one in-


[Column 1]

dictment. The number of these counts
is not regulated by law, but is left to
the arbitrary disposition of a grand
jury selected from the class in hostility
to the defendants, and usually sub-
ject and pliant to the will of an ex-
tremely bitter and unscrupu-
lous Prosecuting Attorney. The
petit juries empaneled for the
trial of persons thus indicted, are also
picked out for their known antagon-
ism to the society to which the accused
belong. And in almost every instance
they find verdicts as requested by the
Prosecuting Attorney, oblivious of the
exculpatory portions of the evidence.
Juries are thus selected, not only for
the trial of cases under the Edmunds
law, which permits challenges of
"Mormons," but by the open venire
process strong ani -"Mormon" are
chosen to try "Mormons" accused of
offenses not included in the Edmunds
act, and thus again is the law pervert
ed and prostituted to work oppression
and injustice. The Courts, as a rule,
decide on questions of law and proced-
ure as desired by the District Attorney
and ignore the request of defendant's
counsel for legal instructions to the
trial jury. Thus the victims marked						
for the sacrifice on the altar of hate,
are, humanly speaking, entirely at the
mercy of their persecutors.
	Another new step in the progress of
this iniquity is the rule, recently en-
forced, of compelling persons charged
with violations of the Edmunds act to
plead guilty or else have their families
forced upon the witness stand, to be
plied with shameful questions con-
cerning the most private acts and re-
lations of their husbands and fathers.
Children of tender years are compelled
[--] give evidence on subjects unsuited
to their immature minds, and to be-
come the instruments of their parents'
incarceration. Formerly, defendants
were permitted to plead not guilty and
then go upon the stand and testify
against themselves, declaring the facts
and leaving the result with the jury
and the court. By this means a con-
scientious man who did not
consider himself guilty of crime,
could explain his position, and
meet the issue without doing vio-
lence to his convictions. But this poor
consolation is now denied by the male-
volent District Attorney. The unfortu-
nate defendant must do violence to
some extent to his conscience by
pleading guilty, or suffer the anguish
of witnessing the tortures of his wives
and children when subject to the legal
rack of a brutal cross-examination, in
which no regard is shown for a wife's
affection or a daughter's love, the sen-
sitive shrinking of a virtuous woman
from exposure of her marital associa-
tions, or a child's tearful aversion to
disclosing the secrets of home for the
conviction of a father. Such proceed-
ings prove that the object is not the
vindication of the law but the
promotion of human suffering,
providing the victims are mem-
bers of the "Mormon" Church.
Many of the objects of this malevo-
lence are aged men who have passed
the allotted three score years and ten,
who have contracted no new marital
obligations, but are engaged in caring
for their families as honor and right-
eousness dictate. The heartless se-
verity with which such defendants are
pursued is also evidence that the
object is not the public benefit but the
wreaking of vengeance upon members
of a Church.
	Another indignity which has been
heaped upon the heads of Latter-day
Saints is the charge of perjury which
the reckless District Attorney has
publicly but not legally made. Wit-
nesses who have been compelled to
testify against their dearest friends,
when answering "I do not know" to
questions concerning matters of which
they were not cognizant, have been in-
sulted and abused and branded with
perjury. All evidence they disclose
which suits him he uses as undeniable
truth before a commissioner or a jury,
but everything elicited from the same
witnesses that does not suit his pur-
pose he enounces as perjury. And
he has the hardihood to claim that this
crime is taught and encouraged by the
"Mormon" Church. The refutation of
this atrocious calumny is found in the
standards of Church doctrine, and in
the fact that the brethren who are now
lingering in prison for declining to re-
pudiate their wives, have been sent
there, in nearly every instance,
through their own testimony or the
testimony of their families. And it is
well known that every one of them
could have escaped the penalties

[Column 2]

of the law if they would
but promise to obey the law, in
future, as construed by the courts.
It would have been easy to make the
promise and avoid imprisonment. But
their regard for their word was such
that they would not make a promise
which they did not intend to keep, so
they accepted a loathsome prison and
pecuniary loss in preference to the ap-
pearance of falsehood. It may seem
to those who do not understand the
situation that the requirement of future
obedience to the law is but reasonable
and that every good citizen should
make this agreement. But an expla-
nation of the facts will speedily dissi-
pate this conclusion. Obedience to the
law as construed by the courts, would
be difficult of comprehension if the
numerous and diverse definitions of the
law were considered. But according
to the latest rulings, a promise to obey
the law signifies an agreement to vio-
late the most solemn covenants of
marital fidelity that mortals can make
with each other and their God. It
means the utter repudiation of loving
wives and the separation either of the
father and some of his children or of
the mother and her children. It is a
promise not to visit, go to the same
place of worship or amusement, or
recognize, associate with, or even call
on when sick or dying, or when her
child is sick or dying, the plural wife
who has been faithful in all things. It
means dishonor, treachery, cruelty and
cowardice. It places, not the law but
a gross and wicked perversion of the
law, above the revealed will of God
and the noblest promptings of the hu-
man heart. It is a promise that no
true Latter-day Saint can make and
that no humane being would demand.
	Thus the legal difficulties that sur-
round the Saints are not so much the
effects of a special and partial law
aimed at a feature of their religion as
of the wicked and absurd construc-
tions of that law and its improper and
unprecedented administration, prompt-
ed by malice, inspired by Satan and in-
tended to crush out a system of re-
ligion which cannot be overcome by
truth, reason and the agencies of en-
lightened humanity.

RETALIATION DEPRECATED.
	Before leaving this uninviting sub-
ject we desire to say to the Latter-day
Saints, that though we are suffering so
acutely from the inhumanity of our fel-
low men, we must not descend in the
slightest degree to acts that would
savor of retaliation,or in the least seek
to curtail any man in his individual
rights. We wish it fully understood          			
by the Saints and by all the world
that we have a profound respect
for all wholesome and consti-
tutional laws. We are the firm and
unequivocal advocates of law and
order, and of every principle associat-
ed with human freedom, and though we
regard the Edmunds Act, in its provi-
sions and its administration, as ex post
facto, cruel, oppressive and unconsti-
tutional, yet we are not contending
against it in our own interests alone,
but we are also fighting the battle of
civil and religious liberty, and of free-
dom of conscience in behalf of our
common humanity and in the interest
of every people. We feel assured that,
as the founding of these United States
formed an epoch in the history of hu-
man liberty, so this action of ours will
have due weight in restraining the ten-
dency to intolerance and oppression
that to-day uprears its head to stay
the progress of human freedom. We
say, as Elder Parley P. Pratt very
forcibly expresses it in one of his po-
etical effusions:

"Come ye Christian sects, and Pagan,
	Pope and Protestant and Priest,
Worshippers of God or Dagon,
	Come ye to fair freedom's feast.
Come ye sons of doubt and wonder—
	Indian, Moslem, Greek and Jew,
All your shackles burst asunder;
	Freedom's banner waves for you."

THE REFUGE OF LIES.
	Probably at no period in the world's
history has Satan had such power over
the hearts of the children of men as
he appear to wield at the present. He
has flooded the earth with lies, en-
deavoring by means of these decep-
tions to retard the work of God, to
destroy its influence, and to make vic-
tims of its believers, especially those
who have the authority to administer
the ordinances of the Gospel. A more
striking illustration of his power in
this respect has not been furnished us
than was witnessed at the meetings
which were attended by some of the
members of the Grand Army of the

[Column 3]

Republic who were passing through
here. It would be incredible to be-
lieve that people could be so deceived
by the false statements which were
made to them by our enemies who
reside here, had it not been witnessed.
The most abominable falsehoods,
which could be disproved with the
greatest ease, were told with an un-
blushing effrontery that was Satanic:
and though many of the visitors had
opportunities of seeing for themselves,
and of mingling with the people, some
went away fully imbued with the idea
that the Latter-day Saints ought to be
exterminated from the face of the
earth. But to the credit of humanity
be it said, others became thoroughly
disgusted with the proceedings, and
denounced unsparingly the folly and
wrong of condemning a people afford-
ing so many evidences of the qualities
that go to make excellent citizens, from
the one-sided statements of their
avowed enemies.
	The course of the former class is an
illustration of the malignant power of
falsehood wielded by Satan in other
directions and places. If lies could
overwhelm the work of God,we should
be completely crushed under their
weight. It is this great influence up-
on which Satan depends to thwart the
purposes of God and check the spread
of truth; and, unfortunately for the
world, it appears willing to drink in
his spirit and to believe his fabrica-
tions. It is this that arouses mobs and
causes them to indulge in acts of vio-
lence and hostility against,unoffend-
ing servants of God, and that has in-
cited them to shed the blood of inno-
cent men in the most cruel and barbar-
ous manner.
	By means of this incessant stream of
falsehood which is continually being
sent forth, the rulers of our nation are
urged to adopt the most extreme
measures against us. It appears
vain to point to our works, to
show what we have done in reclaiming
this land from its original sterility, and
building up a grand commonwealth in
these mountains—a commonwealth
rich in all the elements of greatness,
lightly taxed, free from debt, with
peace and union prevailing to an un-
paralleled extent throughout all these
mountains where Latter-day Saints
reside. It is in vain that we point to
our frugality, our temperance, our
comparative freedom from crime, and
the peace and good order which exist
wherever we are in the majority. All
these evidences of thrift and virtue go
for nothing, and the National Legisla-
ture feels that it is under the necessity
of devising schemes to take away from
us the rights we have inherited, and
which belong to us as a free people, and
to bring us into bondage to those who
malign us, and who would take delight
in destroying us.

EFFORTS TO PROCURE PROSCRIPTIVE
LEGISLATION.
	Every effort possible was made dur-
ing this last session of Congress to
secure legislation of the most proscrip-
tive and sweeping character against the
Latter-day Saints. Not only was it
the design to reach persons who be-
lieved in and practiced plural marriage,
but our enemies went so far as to pro-
pose the complete annihilation of every
political right belonging to those who
were free from the charge of polyg-
amy, and whose only crime was that
they were members of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Congress adjourned without acting
upon this measure. Already we hear
the notes of preparation for a renewal
of the campaign against us. Filled
with anger at their non-success at the
last session, our opponents are pre-
paring for the onslaught at the coming
session of Congress,and we are threat-
ened with vengeance of the most
dreadful description.
	But in this, as in all other circum-
stances and conditions, our trust is in
God. This is His work. He has thus
far taken care of it and preserved it,
and has delivered us from the many
plots which have been framed against
us. It has progressed thus far only by
His power, and not by the power of
man. Whatever glory there is con-
nected with the establishment and
progress of this great work is due en-
tirely to Him. Man's wisdom, educa-
tion, shrewdness, wealth and ability
have not been the factors that have
produced success; but it has been the
blessing, the power, and the overrul-
ing providence of our God. We have
had to trust Him in the past in the
midst of unnumbered foes; we must
trust Him in the future against the ter-

[Column 4]

rible odds that are pitted against His
work and His Gospel. We know, and
can boldly testify to the Latter-day
Saints, and to the whole world, that
the Lord hath founded Zion, and that
no power beneath the Celestial King-
dom can prevail against it.
	But those who fight against it will
share the fate of all who have ever
fought against it. Who is there that
has prospered in his warfare against
Zion? Who can point to the laurels
which have been won in fighting the
work of God? What man or what na-
tion has gained credit and glory in the
earth for successes achieved over the
feeble Latter-day Saints? We have seen
generation after generation of our op-
posers pass, one after another, into
cold oblivion. They have strutted
their brief hour upon the stage, ap-
pearing to think that they were accom-
plishing wonders. But they have
passed away, and the memory of their
deeds only lives in our historical arch-
ives. So it will be with those who
now occupy so large a portion of pub-
lic attention as crusaders against the
Saints, and who imagine themselves to
be such doughty heroes.

THE SPIRIT OF SCANDAL.
	Not only has Satan sent forth his
lies outside of our society, but he uses
his influence in this direction among
us. The tendency in our settlements
and cities to listen to and believe in
every wild and slanderous rumor which
may be put in circulation is to be
deeply deplored. No matter how un-
founded and destitute of even the
semblance of truth such reports may
be, there are those among us so silly
and credulous as to readily believe
them. The injury that is thus wrought
is not easily measured. Many of the
evils from which we have suf-
fered have been greatly aggravated
by this disposition on the part of some
who call themselves Latter-day Saints.
The man who frames a lie is a 
great sinner; but the one who loves a
lie, and who circulates a lie after it is
told, is also under condemnation.
Many stories go from mouth to mouth
concerning the truth of which those
who repeat them know nothing. But
it seems as though the constant repe-
tition of a falsehood impresses many
people as though it were a fact. Where
Latter-day Saints, so-called, are found
telling that which is untrue, they
should be called to an account. It is
written that whosoever loveth and
maketh a lie shall not be permitted to
enter into the Holy City, nor to have a
right to the tree of life, but they are to
be without, with dogs, sorcerers,
whoremongers, murderers and idola-
ters. The Lord has said, "He that
telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight."
Latter-day Saints should be warned
upon these points, that they may not
grieve the Spirit of the Lord, nor do
injury to their friends and neighbors,
by indulging in this pernicious habit of
repeating and attaching credence to
every slander and false rumor that may
be put in circulation. But every one
should be careful, when they hear a
story about their brethren and sisters,
to refrain from repeating it until they
know it to be true, and then not to do
so in a way to injure the person about
whom it is told. The reputation of our
neighbors and the members of our
Church should be as dear to us as our
own, and we should carefully avoid
doing anything to another or saying
anything about another that we would
not wish done or said about ourselves.
We testify that those who give way to
this influence, who take delight in
reading lies which are published
about us in papers circulated
in our midst or outside of our Terri-
tory, who delight in listening to the
false and malicious representations
which are made concerning the serv-
ants and people of God or His work,or
who themselves gossip about and aid
in the dissemination of these things to
the injury of their fellows, will, unless
they speedily repent, lose the Spirit of
God and the power to discern between
truth and falsehood, and between those
who serve God and those who serve
Him not. Their own minds will be-
come so darkened by the spirit of
falsehood that the Spirit of God will
cease to have power with them and will
flee from them.

SABBATH-BREAKING AND RECREATION
MANIA.	
	Among the sins into which some who
are called Saints have been betrayed is
Sabbath-breaking and over indulgence
in useless pleasure. "The Sabbath
was made for man, and not man for
the Sabbath." But it is the Lord's day


[Column 1]

and should be spent as he directs. We
are not left to the doubts and queries
which enter into the polemics of sec-
taries on this important matter. We
have the word of the Lord upon it, di-
rect. He has declared to us through
His Prophet:
	"And the inhabitants of Zion shall also
observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy.
	"And that thou mayest more fully keep thy-
self unspotted from the world, thou shalt
go to the house of prayer and offer up thy
sacraments upon my holy day;
	For verily this is a day appointed unto
you to rest from your labors and pay thy
devotions to the Most High;
	Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up
in righteousness on all days and at all times;
	But remember that on this the Lord's day,
thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy
sacraments unto the Most High, confessing
thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the
Lord.
	And on this day thou shalt do none other
thing, only let thy food be prepared with
singleness of heart that thy fasting may be
perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may
be full."
	These commandments of the Lord
do not admit of Sunday excursions to
the lake or the canons or other places
any more than manual labor. That day
will be held sacred to the service and
worship of God by every true Latter-
day Saint. Those who desecrate it
reject the word of the Lord and will
not be held guiltless. We admonish
all members of the Church to obey this
commandment and the officers of the
Church to see that it is not broken with
impunity.
	The mania for recreations of various
kinds which has seized upon many of
the people is harmful in several ways.
It unfits them for the regular duties of
life. It renders them restless and im-
patient of proper restraint. It ob-
structs business. It tends to contract
habits of dissipation. It throws our
young folks into the company 
of persons whose society should 
be hunned. It cultivates worldliness.
It conduces to many evils, and the
spirit of purity, temperance, holiness
and peace will not abide in resorts
such as have been established for the
purpose of enticing the Saints into 
folly. Many thousands of dollars have
been worse than wasted during the
past summer on excessive amusements
and sometimes unseemly diversions.
The influential men and women of the
Church should discountenance this
evil, and with all wisdom and prudence
endeavor to check it and prevent its
increase among the Saints.
	We have no disposition to deprive
either young or old of proper amuse-
ment. It is necessary to perfect
health and rational enjoyment. It
should be provided by those who have
the watchcare of the people, especially
for the young, and conducted without
sinfulness and without excess. But in
these times of trial and distress to
many, is it seemingly to indulge in fre-
quent and hilarious junketings and to
act as though we disregarded the afflic-
tions of our brethren and sisters who
are placed in difficulty and jeopardy?
When most of our leaders are in exile,
when good men are thrust into prison,
when many families are plunged into
grief at the enforced absence of those
who are dear to them, when the cords
of oppression are being drawn more
tightly and the small liberties remain-
ing to us are being gradually taken
away, when our enemies are forging
fetters for our feet and planning
for our utter destruction, and when
Satan is working with all his forces to 
weaken our ranks by leading the Saints
into sin, is it a time to waste our days
in useless pleasure and spend our
nights in noisy revels? Rather, should
we not humble ourselves before the
Lord and seek by faith and devotion to
good works to obtain power that we
may prevail against our foes? We do
not believe in long-faced sadness or
the piety that consists in a sanctified
appearance. There is no need for
drooping heads or a sad countenance.
A cheerful spirit should be cultivated 
and hearts should be gladdened by
words of cheer. But these are serious
times and the sorrows of the afflicted
and the carousings of the thoughtless
seem utterly incongruous when all
profess to be brethren and sisters. Let
unseemly levity be abandoned and let
the solemnities of eternity rest down
upon those who are called the Saints 
of the Most High God.

SACRED VICARIOUS WORK.
	Notwithstanding the violent and un-
abating opposition which is arrayed
against us the work of ministering in
 he ordinances of the Lord's House
continues, and the blessing of the

[Column 2]

Heavens still follows these adminis-
trations. As we have so long expected
and so frequently been warned, Satan
rages as he views his domain trenched
upon, his captives delivered, and the
souls of men wrenched from his grasp
by the labors of the living for the dead
in and through those sacred ordi-
nances that belong alone to the Gospel
of the Son of God, administered in
holy places by His chosen servants and
handmaidens. And it must not sur-
prise us if the rage of the arch-enemy
of mankind increases and his emis-
saries grow more relentless and cruel,
more brutal and inhuman. In their ef-
forts to stay this work, as the number
of temples increases and the thous-
ands of Israel go in thereto to minister
the ordinances of salvation for their
ancestors and departed friends. We
further rejoice that the work of erect-
ing the Salt Lake and Manti Temples
goes steadily forward, and that the lat-
ter is nearing its completion with all
the rapidity that could reasonably be
expected when we consider the condi-
tion of the Church and the people
and the difficulties under which they
labor.

TRAINING THE YOUNG.
	It is pleasing to notice the increased
feeling of anxiety on the part of the
Saints to have their children educated
in schools where the doctrines of the
Gospel and the precious records which
God has given us can be taught and
read. Our children should be indoc-
trinated in the principles of the Gospel
from their earliest childhood. They
should be made familiar with the con-
tents of the Bible, the Book of Mormon
and the Book of Doctrine and Coven-
ants. These should be their chief text
books, and everything should be done
to establish and promote in their
hearts genuine faith in God, in
His Gospel and its ordinances, and
in His works. But under our common
school system this is not possible. In
Salt Lake City, we understand, an ef-
fort is now being made to establish a
school of this character, and, we are
informed, the prospect for its success
is very encouraging. The Brigham
Young Academy, at Provo, and the
Brigham Young College, at Logan, are
both doing excellent work in this
direction and should be patronized and
sustained by the Latter-day Saints. In
no direction can we invest the means
God has given us to better advantage
than in the training of our children in
the principles of righteousness and in
laying the foundation in their hearts of
that pure faith which is restored to the
earth. We would like to see schools
of this character, independent of the
District School system, started in all
places where it is possible.

SACREDNESS OF THE FAMILY
RELATION.
	The life of a saint is not simply a
personal perfecting, it is also a factor
in the entire scheme of earth's re-
demption. No one can be saved alone,
by himself or herself, unassisted by or
unassisting others. The weight of our
influence must be either for good or
harm, be an aid or an injury to the
work of human regeneration, and as
we assume responsibilities, form ties,
enter into covenants, beget children,
accumulate families, so does the
weight of our influence increase, so
does its extent broaden and deepen.
The Scriptures inform us that God cre-
ated this earth as a habitation for man
and he placed man on it that he might
have joy, a joy that is to be eternal.
To accomplish these purposes, the
preparatory one of the peopling the
earth, and the ultimate one of man's
eternal happiness, He, the Creator, es-
tablished marriage, and commanded
those he first placed here on earth to
be fruitful and multiply. This institu-
tion he regulated by strict laws given
through his servants to His people in
their various dispensations; and His
Son, our Savior, emphasized these com-
mandments by most unequivocal
teachings with regard to the sacred-
ness of the marriage covenant,
and of the sinfulness of divorce for
other than the most grave departures
from the spirit and intent of that cove-
nant. In this is wisdom, for the exper-
ience of the world, in all its ages,
 proves that where lax ideas exist with
regard to marriage and divorce, more
especially where those ideas find ex-
pression in lax legislation, there we
discover peoples and nations whose
code of morals is inferior, and
where sexual irregularities and sins
increase, until that righteousness,
which has been so truthfully said "ex-

[Column 3]

alteth a nation," ceases to have an
existence in their midst. To a people
who believe as we do, that true mar-
riage was divinely instituted for the
multiplication of mankind, and is not
a union for time alone, but reaches in-
to the eternities, the disruption of
families by divorce is an evil of no or-
dinary character, not only bearing a 
harvest of sorrow and suffering in this
life, but also having a far reaching in-
fluence into the world beyond the
grave, and possibly involving others in 
the ruin who had no voice in the sepa-
ration or power to avert its occurrence.
For this reason the Latter-day Saints
of all people should be most loath to
sunder sacred ties once formed, and
most determinedly opposed to the sev-
erance of unions made in holy places
in God's appointed way, for light and
trivial causes; and the efforts of
Teachers and Bishops in their labors
amongst families where differences,
alienation or quarrels exist, should al-
ways be to effect reconciliation, pro-
mote union, inspire  mutual forbear-
ance and increase love. Only when 
every kindly counsel and ministration
fall should that last resort, a divorce,
be permitted. And in such cases those
who have received of the sealing power
of the Church should also be separated 
by the same authority that bound
them together: until this is done new 
alliances are sinful.

SELF-MURDER DENOUNCED.
	There is another evil that is growing
amongst the peoples of the world that 
is not unfelt amidst the Latter-day
Saints. It is the crime of self-murder. 
Suicide should be made odious among
the people of God, it should be em-
phasized as a deadly sin, and no undue
feelings of tenderness towards the un-
fortunate dead, or of sympathy to-
wards the living bereaved, should pre-
vent us denouncing it as a crime
against God and humanity, against the
Creator and the creature. It is true
that the exact enormity of the act is
not defined with minute detail in the
Holy Scriptures, or the limits of its
punishment given; but to believers in
the God whom we worship it has al-
ways been regarded as a sin of great 
magnitude; and in many countries
especial pains have been taken to dis-
courage it, by refusal to bury in con-
secrated ground, by indignities offered
to the lifeless remains, or by such
lack of funereal observances as would
produce a peculiar and horrifying
effect upon the survivors. Now,
while not advocating measures of this
description, we do not think that the
same laudations and panegyrics should
be pronounced over the self-murderer
as are so freely uttered over the faith-
ful Saint who has gone to his eternal 
rest. There is a difference in their
death, and that difference should be
impressed upon the living, unless the
deceased, at the time of the rash act, 
was in such a mental condition as not
to be wholly responsible for his ac-
tions; but again, if this condition be
the result of sin, of departure from
God's laws, then the unfortunate one,
like the inebriate, is not altogether free
from the responsibility of acts com-
mitted while in this state of mental 
derangement; if he is not censurable
for the act itself, he is for the causes 
that induced it. In such cases the
mantle of charity must not be stretched
so widely, in our desire to protect our
erring friends, as to reflect dishonor on
the work of God, or contempt for the 
principles of the everlasting Gospel.
There is an unfortunate tendency in
the natures of many to palliate sins by
which they are not personally injured,
but we must not forget that such pal-
liation frequently increases the orig-
inal wrong, and brings discredit on the
Church and dishoner to the name and
work of our blessed Redeemer; in
other words, to save the feelings of our
friends we are willing to crucify afresh
the Lord of life and glory.

MISSIONARY OPERATIONS.
	The reports of our Elders engaged in
missionary labors in foreign lands are
far from discouraging, when we con-
sider the tempest of misrepresentation 
and abuse that has flooded the lands of
civilization with regard to ourselves,
our objects and our  methods of evan-
gelization, as well as the prejudices
that have to be overcome and the per-
secution which has to be met by those
who have sufficient moral courage and
stamina to obey so unpopular a doc-
trine as the fullness of the Gospel of
our Lord Jesus Christ. Yet were the
results even less encouraging than they
are, we have still imposed upon us the
duty of warning the peoples of the

[Column 4]

earth of the judgments of Almighty
God, which in his own due time must
surely come. The divine injunction
given to the servants of God in former
dispensations and reaffirmed in this,
"Go ye into all the world and preach
the Gospel to every creature," has 
never been abrogated nor annulled; and
our duty to carry the Gospel's warning
voice to all nations, kindreds, tongues,
and peoples, to the Gentiles first and
then to the House of Israel, still re-
mains unchanged.

PROMINENT BRETHREN.
	President Woodruff and the members 
of the Council of the Twelve Apostles
still continue in the active perform-
ance of the duties appertaining to their
Priesthood and calling, occasionally
hampered, it may be, in certain direc-
tions by the unrelenting attacks of our
persecutors. Almost without excep-
tion they have enjoyed good health,
while the more aged ones, including 
Elder Lorenzo Snow, in prison, have
been blessed with a vigor and with 
powers of endurance remarkable for 
men of their years. Brother Lorenzo
Snow bears his unjust imprisonment
with much fortitude and patience and
is a source of great comfort and
strength to his fellow-prisoners, de-
prived of liberty for their obedience to
the requirements of God's law.
	President Joseph F. Smith continues
to send us words of faith and encour-
agement, of patience and brave endur-
ance, and, so far as his position and
surroundings will admit, he is zealous-
ly furthering the interests of God's
holy Church and Kingdom.

MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS.
	We hear favorable reports of the
good done by our Sunday Schools,
Primaries, Improvement Associations 
and Relief Societies, and we feel to
abundantly bless the brethren and
sisters who so diligently and faithfully 
labor therein for the instruction of our
youth and the benefit of the poor. We
desire to encourage all engaged in these
duties to continue with unabated zeal
and disinterestedness in these labors
of love and mercy, that the institutions 
under their charge may rise to yet
greater heights of excellence and use-
fulness, and the scope of their influ-
ence for good in the midst of the Saints
continually increase, and upon parents 
we urge the wisdom and desirableness
of fostering by their faith, influence
and example these admirable institu-
tions for the benefit of their children.
	In consequence of the unusually dry
summer the crops have not been so
abundant as in some former seasons.
Although the yield of wheat is com-
paratively small it commands but a
low price in the market. Wisdom and
economy suggest that our farmers
should not be anxious to make imme-
diate sales. Every kernel of wheat is
precious. It should be stored care-
fully for future use, in such a manner
as to preserve it from destructive in-
sects and the action of the elements.
The warnings which have been given to
Israel on this point were not uttered in 
vain, as coming time will abundantly
establish. Let no grain be wasted nor
thrown heedlessly upon a depressed
market to continue the depression and
fritter away the fruits of arduous toil
	Preparations should be made for the
proper care of stock during the ap-
proaching winter. Too many animals 
are permitted to perish for the lack of
food and shelter. After the Lord has 
blessed the flocks and herds of His
people, it is sinful to allow them to
wander on the bleak prairies or snow-
covered benches to die of cold or
starvation. Unless provided with 
shelter from storm and inclement
weather loose stock should be gathered
up and sent to warmer localities for
winter range.
	The wool crop of the past season has
been very large and sheep-owners have
made fair profits on their products.
But domestic economy recoils at the
spectacle of 7,000,000 pounds of wool
being shipped out of the Territory to be
returned in the shape of inferior cloth,
and be purchased at high prices
by woolgrowers and others. Factories
among our own people should utilize 
the whole of this product, employing 
hands that are now idle to manufac-
ture honest goods, and thus retain in
the Territory much money that goes to
build up industries afar off. Our home
factories are turning out most excel-
lent articles at reasonable prices;
these should be purchased in prefer-
ence to foreign made goods, because
they are more durable and because 
home industries ought to be patron-
ized.


On the same principles and for the same rea-
sons the hides and pelts which are now shipped
away to be brought back manufactured into articles
that can be made in this Territory, ought to be re-
tained and worked up for home use.  Factories
for this purpose, carefully conducted, would soon
return fair profits, while the whole community
would share in the resultant benefits.
			CONCLUSION.
	In conclusion, we say to the Latter-day Saints:
Put your trust in God, as you ever have done.
He will not fail you.  Continue to live in strict
conformity to His Gospel. Humble yourselves 
before Him in mighty faith and prayer.  Confess
your sins one to another; and go to your God and 
confess to Him, and obtain His forgiveness there-
fore.  Live in close communion with the Holy
Ghost, that it may be your constant companion,
and through its heavenly influence you may be
prepared for every coming event.  The Lord is 
holding a controversy with the nations, and He 
has said, "After your testimony cometh the testi-
mony of earthquakes.    *    *    *    *    * 
	And also cometh the testimony of the thunder-
ings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice
of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the 
sea, heaving themselves beyond their bounds.
And all things shall be in commotion; and surely
men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come
upon all people," Already His words upon this
subject are being fulfilled.  The elements are 
joining their voices with the voices of His Elders
in testimonoy of the near approach of the end.
And woe! to the people or the nation that fight
against Zion, for, as we have often had occasion
to say, God will fight against them.  His wrath
will be poured out upon them.  Babylon will fall,
and the refuge of lies will be swept away; and 
truth and righteousness will cover the earth as
with a flood, in fulfilment of the words of the 
Prophets.  Greater signs will appear in the hea-
vens above and on the earth beneath, bearing
awful testimony of the near approach of that
great day when our Redeemer will be revealed
from heaven in power and in great glory.
	With continued prayers for your safety, and for 
your prosperity in the work of God, and with most
earnest desires that every man, woman and child
will be faithful to the trust which God has reposed 
in us, we remain,
		Your brethren and fellow servants,
					JOHN TAYLOR,
					GEORGE Q. CANNON.
Of the First Presidency of the Church of Jesus
		Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	President's Office, Oct. 6, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one uear, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMEN'S EXPONENT
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	OCTOBER 1, 1886.


OCTOBER CONFERNECE.
	The Fifty-sixth Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints con-
vened Wednesday, October 6th, in the new Stake
House at Coalville, Apostle Franklin D. Richards
presiding. Of the authorities of the Church there
were present, Patriarch John Smith, and four of the
Quorum of the Apostles. The services were of
an exalted character throughout, and the Holy
Spirit seemed to be poured out in rich abundance
upon those who took part in the services.  An
Epistle from the First Presidency was read during
the Conference by Elder H. M. Wells. The
Epistle is published in full in this number of the
paper. It is encouraging to this people, who are
so cruelly deprived of the counsel and instruction
of the President of the Church and his Counsel-
ors, to have from time to time official Epistles
containing definite advice, and to know that they
are still watched over and guided under the in-


spiration of the Almighty by His servants, who
hold the keys to administer unto the people of
His Church here upon the earth. It will be a 
great comfort and blessing, not only to those who
are here in Zion, but to thousands afar off, to read
the words of divine inspiration, though they have
not the privilege of hearing the voices of those to
whom they were wont to listen in times that are
past—the days of peace and prosperity.
	The Conference was numerously attended, and
discourses touching upon all general topics, and
exhorting to lives of purity and holiness, were de-
livered by members of the Quorum of the Apos-
tles and other leading men; of the Apostles, who
addressed the people, there were F. D. Richards,
John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant and John W.
Taylor. Several Presidents of Stakes represented
their fields of labor, and altogether the meetings
were interesting, and no doubt the good teaching
will have a beneficial effect in its results upon the
the Saints.
	It is certainly a time of solemnity and supplica-
tion,  and there is the greatest need of the Holy
Spirit in the hearts and homes of this people.
Great events are close at hand; of this fact there
can be no doubt in the minds of any who are
watching the signs of the times.


SISTER KING’S FUNERAL.

	The funeral obsequies over the remains of Sis-
ter Hannah T. King took place on Tuesday, the
28th ult.,in the Thirteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Bishop Millen Atwood presiding. Besides the 
Bishop and his Counselor, Nelson Empey, there
were present on the stand, President Horace S.
Eldredge, Bishops John Tingey and Orson F.
Whitney, Elders Charles W. Stayner, George
Goddard, Samuel Neslen, George B. Wallace,
Joseph W. Johnson and Robert F. Neslen
	The large gathering of the friends of the de-
ceased who were present, showed the great esteem
in which she was held in the community.
	The services commenced by the choir singing:
			"Unveil thy bosom, faithful tomb."
The singers were Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas, 
Miss Louie Wells, Mathoni Pratt and J. D.
Spencer, accompanied on the organ by C. S.
Burton.
	Elder Charles W, Stayner then offered prayer.
	The Choir sang:
			"Rest for the weary soul."
		ELDER GEORGE B. WALLACE
Addressed the congregation. He eulogized Sister
King as a faithful and noble minded member of
the Church; related some of his early experiences
as a missionary in the part of England where she
resided; and described the pleasant home and
surroundings which she forsook to gather with
the Saints in this land. He said that he had
known many noble women, but he never met but
one Hannah T. King. His remarks were very
consolatory to the bereaved, and brought many
kind reminiscences of Sister King's early days
to the minds of the numerous friends present.
	The following remarks were then made by 
		BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY:
“It has fallen to my lot, by selection and ap-
pointment, to be one of the speakers at the funeral
of Sister King. There may be many here who 
have known her longer, and known her better
than I have, but there are none, I am certain, who 
respected her more, or valued her friendship more
highly. Brother Wallace has dwelt more particu-
larly upon the incidents of her life, the temporal
phase of her career, and portrayed the sacrifices
she made for the Gospel's sake. I desire, also, 
to add my tribute to her memory, as the Holy
Spirit shall give me utterance.
	It is good to hear the life story of such a woman
as Sister King. Possessed of a refined soul, a
cultivated mind, and surrounded by the comforts

[column 2]
and luxuries of life; with friends and associates
who loved to minister to her wants; an intimate
friend of one of England's poetesses, the cele-
brated Eliza Cook, and numbering among her ac-
quaintances many in the upper walks of society
in her native England; yet, when the Gospel
found her she did not hesitate to relinquish all
and follow her Lord and Master through the
world. She had a noble spirit, and this, without
doubt, was the noblest act of her life. I am told
 that, to this day, it is a matter of astonishment to
her friends in England that she should ever have
done as she did, forsaken all, and united herself
with so despised a people as the Latter-day Saints.
With my knowledge of her character, and the
loftiness of her soul, it would have been to me a
matter of astonishment had she done otherwise.
	She was naturally a proud woman, but her pride,
which was doubtless the result of conscious recti-
tude, respectability, and the traditionary aristo-
cratic sentiment of her native land, was not of
that pernicious kind which prompts so many to
reject the Gospel because of its unpopularity and
its humble origin, and trample on the prec-
ious pearl whose value they do not compre-
hend. She was not ashamed to stoop, for she
stooped to conquer; she saw the jewel glittering
in the dust at her feet, and was not ashamed to 
pick it up, and wear it. The worldly-minded
do not understand the secret motive of such
an action. And here is the real reason for as-
tonishment. They over-look the prize; their
gaze is riveted upon the sky, or on the distant
horizon, and they ignore and trample on the
treasure shining below; like the proud and haughty
Pharisees, who were looking for the Messiah, but
expected Him as a mighty conqueror who would
throw off the Roman yoke and restore at that 
time the temporal power to Israel; they were not
prepared to receive the humble Nazarene, the
man of sorrows, acquainted with grief, and so
rejected their Redeemer and spiritual deliverer, to
their condemnation.
	Thus is the pride of the world ever tested by 
the Truth. Our tests are many and varied; the
trials being suited to our different natures and
calculated to bear upon our weakest parts. To
the young man who came to the Savior and asked
what good thing he should do to obtain eternal
life, the answer was—‘keep the commandments,’
which he claimed to have done from his youth up;
and then, to sell all he had and give to the poor,
and follow the Lord of life and glory; a King in
heaven, a peasant on earth, who was poorer than
the fowls of the air or the beasts of the field, hav
ing not 'where to lay his head.' A similar test
came to our beloved Sister, Hannah T. King, but 
unlike the young man who 'went away sorrowful'
because ‘he had great possessions,’ she made the
sacrifice and laid hold upon eternal life, the great-
est gift of God, in preference to the good things
of this earth. It is not the possession of wealth,
but the love of it, that is sinful. The worship of
any idol we are called to sacrifice, makes it hard
to enter the kingdom of heaven.
	I am told that her father, who was a gentleman,
and a fine specimen of physical manhood, when
he found that he could not dissuade her from her
purpose, sat down and gradually died of a broken
heart. ‘How cruel,'—some might say,—‘surely it
cannot be a message from God that would have
such results.' Indeed! Why, then, did the Son of
God say: 'Think not I come to bring peace, but
a sword?' Why did the Prophet say, in reference
to the gathering of Israel in the last days: 'I
will take you one of a city, and two of a famly,
and I will bring you to Zion?' The word of the 
Lord had gone forth, and she could not restrain
herself. She was a child of Israel, a daughter of
Abraham; her veins tingled with magic blood;
her heart responded to the call and she listened to
the voice of the good Shepherd. The blood of
Israel was in her veins—that blood which God


[Column 1]
has scattered over the earth and with it ‘sprinkled
many nations’—and when He lifts the gates and
bids it return, it as naturally seeks its Source and
Reservoir, as the raindrops that fall upon the hills
trickle back to the ocean whence they came.
This was why Sister King became a “Mormon,”
as it is called. She had the nobility, the great-
ness of soul, to sacrifice the earthly for the heaven-
ly, the temporal for the spiritual.
	But, did not her father object, and did not
Christ say, with Moses, ‘Honor thy father and
thy mother?’ Yes; and she did honor her Father
and her Mother—in heaven. What are the claims
of earthly parents upon us, compared to those of
our heavenly Parents? Besides, it is an individual
responsibility—this question of the soul’s salva-
tion, and our noble sister, no less than her father,
had a soul to save and an individual work of
salvation to perform. How could she have done
otherwise, and been true to her conscience—the
voice of God in the human heart? Furthermore,
it will yet be seen that she truly honored, even her
earthly father, in disobeying his behests. By the
course she took she became a savior to her father’s
house—one of ‘the salt of the earth.’ How could
she ever have, ministered for their salvation in the
Temple of God, had she not taken the step she
did. We must first save ourselves before we at-
tempt to save others; we must plant our own feet
upon the rock, ere we reach out to rescue others
from the floods and quicksands.
	The test is ever between the temporal and the
spiritual. In one scale is placed father, mother,
wife, children, home, country and possessions; in
the other the unspeakable riches of eternal life.
He or she who refuses to make the sacrifice, even
if, like Abraham, they are required to offer an
only son, is unworthy of the kingdom of God.
They who forsake all and follow the Master are
promised an hundred-fold in this life and in the
world to come life everlasting.	
	But enough of sacrifices. What sacrifice can
we make that is at all commensurate with the
Great Sacrifice made for us? How our little trials
pale into insignificance beside those of our blessed
Redeemer, and what mention are they worthy of
in the light of the glories and rewards to come?
The real sacrifice required of us is that of a
broken heart and a contrite spirit. God cares
not for gold and silver, nor is the smell of the
blood of goats and bulls pleasing unto Him. It
is a spiritual sacrifice that He demands, and when
that is made the temporal will follow easily. The
battle is won when the spirit has humbled itself
and been purified; the flesh must succumb as a
matter of course. It is the acceptable offering of
a broken heart and a contrite spirit, faith and hu-
mility, that will redeem Zion and work out for her
children a full and complete salvation in the pres-
ence of our Father and God.
	I might enlarge, if time would permit, upon the
glories of the future. I might dilate upon the
celestial, the terrestrial, and the telestial kingdoms,
and depict the great reward which our beloved
sister has attained, through her humility and in
tegrity in embracing the Gospel and enduring faith-
ful unto the end. I might show also, in the same
connection, the grandeur of this religion, stigma-
tized by the world as “Mormonism,” which pro-
vides for the salvation of all men according to
their merits, even of those who curse it and trample
on its advocates; and possibly let more light upon
the mystery—although it is no mystery to Latter-
day Saints—why a noble spirit, a large soul, with
lofty aims and broad sympathies, should be at-
tracted naturally to a saving plan so glorious, far-
reaching and sublime as “Mormonism.” But it
would not be necessary. Like cleaves to like; af-
finities will coalesce. The principle is an eternal 
one.
	May the God of mercy bless all who mourn,
and comfort the hearts of the relatives and friends 
of Sister King, and move upon them to emulate her

[Column 2]
virtues, to follow in her footsteps as she followed 
Christ's, and, becoming like Him, be worthy to 
meet Him, and mingle eternally with the righteous 
who have gone before. Amen." 
	Bishop Atwood gave some final instructions in 
regard to the casket and the remains, and 
	The choir sang: 
			"Nearer, my God, to Thee."
	Elder Joseph W. Johnson, who baptized Sister 
King into the Church, pronounced the benedic-
tion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿A PRAYER.

Mighty God of earth and ocean,
	Hear us from Thy blest abode;
While we in faith, in deep devotion,
	Praise our great and gracious God;
Help us humbly, we implore Thee,
	Countless are Thy mercies here;
Mighty Prince of peace and glory!
	Bless our Prophet and our Seer.

We our shepherd are bewailing, 
	In his exile from the flock,
Let thy power, oh, God! prevailing,
	Plant him still on safety's rock;
Who for freedom now would barter
	Purest gold, will still remain:
Oh! to see our living martyr,
	And to hear his voice again.

Every gift and every blessing 
	Comes, O Lord, from Thee above;
Life and liberty possessing,
	We the righteous giver own;
And with earnest supplications,
	Now we bow in humble prayer;
Great and mighty God of nations, 
	Shield our Prophet and our Seer.

Let Thine angels hover near him,
	Fill him with prophetic fire;
Send Thy minstrels forth to cheer him
	With the touch of seraph's lyre; 
Bless his bed and soothe his pillow,
	Charge his sentinels sincere;
Toss'd on persecution’s billow,
	Guard our Prophet and our Seer.

While Thy humble interceders
	Praise Thy name for mercies past, 
Grant to our beloved leaders
	Thy protection to the last. 
Let Thy Zion, now before Thee, 
	In her destined freedom stand;
Lord of liberty and glory,
	Sweep the tyrants from our land. 

Break their chain from Zion’s noble, 
	Save Thy servant from their scorn,
Bare Thine arm in days of trouble,
	Bid Thy children cease to mourn;
Then to Thee, with warm devotion,
	Shall our hearts and voices sing;
Honor be to Zion's chieftain,
	Glory be to Zion's King.

							J. PATON.


[Column 1]

OLYMPIA MORATA.

A LEARNED ITALIAN LADY OE THE
SIXTEENTH CENTURY.

	A noteworthy instance of a woman who
combined the rarest intellectual gifts with
every domestic virtue, was the subject of this
brief notice, Olympia Morata, whose short and
brilliant career extended over the period be-
tween 1526 and 1555. She was born in Fer-
rara in the halcyon days, of the Renaissance,
when that city was the resort of all the great-
est scholars and writers of the age; for the
Este family were, after the Medici, the most
enlightened and munificent patrons of art and
learning in Italy.
	The enthusiasm for the revival of the Greek
culture was inimical to clerical instruction,and

[Column 2]

the education of youth, hitherto in the hands
of ecclesiastics, now passed from their control
to lay teachers. In a burst of Liberalism
consequent on this emancipation from priestly
control, men began to extend the benefits of
their learning to their daughters as well as to
their sons, and the girls studied under the
same tutors as their brothers. There was
nothing remarkable then, in the learned Pro-
fessor Morata's imparting to his daughter all
the knowledge of which he was master, but
there was something very remarkable in the
avidity with which the child drank it all in.
Olympia was lovely as well as gifted, and the
elderly gentlemen, mostly famous scholars,
who frequented her father's house, were en-
chanted with the precocious little beauty "The
language of the Muses was her earliest, mother
tongue," said one of them in describing her.
When Olympia was seven years old, her
father had to remove with his wife and five
children to Venice, or wherever he could get
employment, for he was not permitted to dwell
in Ferrara having fallen under the displeasure
of the Duke. In those glorious days when art
and learning were nursed and fostered in the
bosom of royalty, the cultivators and dispensers
of them had much to bear, and the position of
the proudest genius amongst them was but a
gilded slavery. The Dukes of Ferrara were
perhaps, the most liberal of these princely
patrons, who loved to shine with the borrowed
light of genius attracted to their courts.
	After six years of exile, the banished pro-
fessor was permitted to return to his native
city, and was re-instated in royal favor. He
was appointed tutor to the Duke's young
brothers, and also gave lessons to the sovereign's
own little daughter, Anna, a child of eight
years old. Morata was a poor scholar without
other patrimony than his brains, and it cost
him not a little effort to educate his peerless
daughter as he wished, for he had to work for
money, and she had to attend to household
affairs. With her passionate love of books
this was a trial, and we can imagine with what
joy the parents and the girl received an invita-
tion from the Duchess to reside in the palace
and share the instruction of the little Princess
Anna. Olympia was now past thirteen, and 
so advanced in her education that she excited
the wonder of everybody. The Duchess
thought her companionship would be very
beneficial to the child, and she was received
with the greatest kindness and consideration.
Instead of the luxury, learning was now the
business of her life.  In a Greek poem, trans-
lated by Mr. Trollope, she says:

"And I, though woman, womanly gear have left,
Distaff and thread, and workbasket and weft!
The Muses haunts, Parnassus' flowery hill,
These have been all my joys, these shall be still."

	The Duke Hercules II., had married Renèe,
a daughter of France. She was a woman of
unattractive appearance, but of great intel-
lectual power and a taste for theology, which
got her into trouble. Her mental qualities
were inherited by two of her daughters, who
were counted among the greatest scholars of
their time, Lucretia, Duchess of Urbino, and
Leonora, the object of Tasso's most unhappy
love. Her children were still in their infancy
when she became imbued with the doctrines of
a new faith just then preached by Calvin in
Geneva.
	Among the learned men admitted to her
private intercourse was a foreign traveller, 
called M. Charles d'Espeville. The Duke had
secret information from the papal spies, who
tormented him continually on the subject of
his wife's orthodoxy, that this gentleman was
no other than the arch-heretic, John Calvin
himself; and he entered the apartment of the
Duchess with the police, who seized the
traveller and another, to carry them off to
prison; but Renèe planned their escape on the


[Column 1]

﻿road. Henceforth she had to suffer persecution
for her opinions. At one time she was de- 
prived of her children and shut up in her
apartments, but she made her submission and
was pardoned for a time.
	We may be sure that a court presided over by
this lady could never become frivolous, and her
young protegee studied constantly and assidu-
ously.  But all the same she was in much
danger of being spoiled—now in the full
bloom of her beautiful girlhood, flattered, ad-
mired, adored by poets, scholars, soldiers,
princes, by every man who came within reach
of her fascination. Her marvelous accomplish-
ments stirred even the old dons into extrava-
gant admiration. "We used to hear her de-
claiming in Latin, improvising in Greek, ex-
plaining the paradoxes of the greatest orators,
and answering all the questions addressed to
her," writes one enthusiastic admirer. She
was just sixteen when she delivered lectures on
these abstruse themes. But this was not such
an extraordinary spectacle in the Italy of the
6th century as it would be now.
	It must not be imagined that Olympia sought
only the approbation of men. She formed
tender friendships with the noblest and best
young persons of her own sex-friendships
which were tried in adversity and lasted for
life. Her fellow pupil, the Princess Anna, was
one of these friends, also Princess Lavinia
Della Rovere. Another close companion of
her youth was Francesca Bucyronia, whose lot
resembled that of Olympia, as she, too, became
converted to the reformed religion, married a
German, and went with him to his own coun-
try.
	Olympia as long as she remained in the
Ducal palace continued to be like a pagan
goddess, receiving men's homage as her due,
but caring for no one in particular; still un-
touched by the deep, religious sentiment which
was making itself felt in the innermost circle
of the Duchess's court. She wrote thus to a
friend afterwards:
				
	"Had I remained longer at court it would have been all
over with me and my salvation; for never while I remained
there could I attain the knowledge of anything lofty or
divine, or read the books of either Testament."

	Olympia was called home to attend her
father's sick bed, and her family just then 
seem to have fallen under the suspicion of
heresy, for they were left to struggle with sick-
ness and poverty without aid from the sove-
reigns; and after the death of the professor his
daughter was not received back into the
palace.
	The Duke was under the guidance of his
clerical advisers, who threatened papal en-
croachments on his possessions, and the
Duchess was simply afraid to show any favor
to a family suspected of a change of faith, be-
ing herself under constant surveillance. Olym-
pia, in this season of adversity, which must
have presented a sad contrast to the happy,
joyous life she had left, behaved like a brave
devoted daughter and sister, and returned to
the distaff and the needle, the brewing and
baking which she thought she had abandoned 
for ever. She became strongly impressed by
the doctrines of the reformers, and from this
time henceforth she was a profoundly religious
woman. While Olympia was still at the court,
she and other liberal minded young persons
had felt their interest excited in the fate of a 
young man called Fannio, then in prison by
order of the Inquisition, which had condemned
him as a heretic. The entreaties of his young
wife had induced him to recant to save himself
from the stake, but he repented of his recanta-
tion, and now declared his faith openly. Dur-
ing his prolonged imprisonment, Olympia and
some other friends visited him, and no doubt
the converse of a man about to die the death
of a martyr was such as to make a lasting im-
pression on her mind. There was another in-

[Column 2]

fluence at work, which had its effect in develop-
ing the gay thoughtless girl into a serious,
noble woman. When she was in the zenith of
her glory, a young German, Grünthler,
studying at the university of Ferrara, was
captivated by her charms, and ventured to 
make known his feelings to her. He was cold-
ly rejected, but this did not prevent the disin-
terested lover from renewing his suit when the 
lady of his choice was sharing her poor family's
misery and disgrace.  He had now his degree
of doctor of medicine, and was acknowledged
to be very clever and well-informed. Olympia's
eyes were opened to his worth, and she returned
his love with a passionate fervor, as is proved
by her letters to him after their marriage,
when he was obliged to go to Germany to seek
a home for his bride. When at last he found
a temporary resting place, he returned for her,
and took with him also his wife's little brother
Emilio.
	After some months uncertainty the Grünth-
lers settled down in the native town of the
doctor, where they enjoyed freedom to worship
God in their own way, and led a calm, happy,
peaceful life, the lady attending to her domes-
tic affairs, as she had but one maid servant,and
teaching her little brother and the child of her
friend, Fraucesa, who had been sent to her for 
instruction. In the evenings, when the doc-
tor's professional duties were over, two or three
friends would drop in for a little music,in which
Grünthler was skilled, when they often sang
hymns translated or composed in Greek by
Olympia.
	The civil religious wars that then raged in
Germany caused Schweinfurth to undergo a
cruel siege of fourteen months; a famine fever
broke out in the town, and poor Grünthler,
who worked like a hero among the sick, at
last fell ill with the terrible malady. Olympia
watched by him day and night, praying in-
tensely for his recovery, and he was spared to
her for a time, but only to suffer more terrible
misfortunes. The town was sacked, and the
Grünthlers, treated barbarously by the soldiers,
escaped barely with their lives, and suffered
such hardships before reaching a place of
safety that Olympia's health was seriously im-
paired. The good Protestant, Count Erbach.
took in the poor starving fugitives, and his
wife nursed Olympia through a fever. After
this Dr. Grunthler was invited to a post in
Heidelburg, and Olympia was offered the
Greek chair in the University, which she de-
clined. Then the Elector wished her to take 
some high office in the train of the Electress,
but Olympia could not be tempted from the
domestic hearth ever again. Her health
gradually declined; she pined away and died
at last, expressing her joy at being called to a 
happier world. Her noble husband did not
long survive her, he fell the victim of another
pestilence, and the little brother died a few
days after him. So this devoted family were
not long separated. They parted in deep sorrow
but awoke to a deeper joy.
		G. S. GODKIN.
	Author of the Life of Victor Emanuel
Lung' Arno Guicuardini, Florence. 
—English Woman's Review.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT!


[Column 1]

THE HOUSE AT MIDNIGHT.

A LAY SERMON THAT IS WELL WORTH
READING AT ANY TIME.

	How quiet the house is at midnight! The
people who talk and laugh and sing in it every
day are asleep, and the people who fell asleep
in it long ago come back into it. Every house
has these two classes of tenants. Do we love
best those with whom we can laugh and talk
and sing, or the dear, silent ones who come so
noiselessly to our side, and whisper to us in

[Column 2]

faint, far-away whispers that have no sound, so
that we hear only their very stillness.
	I am not tired, but my pen is weary. It 
falls from my fingers, and I raise my head. I
start to leave the table, and my eyes fall upon
a little book lying on the floor. It is a little 
"First Reader." He left it there this after-
noon. I remember just how I was impatient
because he could not read the simple little
lesson—such an easy lesson—and I told him it
was a waste of my time to teach him, and
pushed him away from me. I remember now
I see the flush come into the little tired face,
the brave, cheerful look in his eyes—his
mother's brave, patient, cheeriness, struggling
with his disappointment and pain. I see him
lie down on the floor, and the little face bent
over the troublesome little lesson, such a sim-
ple, easy lesson, any baby might read it. Then, 
after a little struggle alone, it has to be given
up, and the baffled little soldier with one more
appealing look toward me for re-inforcements,
sighs and goes away from the lesson he cannot 
read to the play that comforts him. And
there lies the little book,  just as he left it. Ah,
me, I could kneel down and kiss it now as
though it were alive and loving.
	Why, what was my time worth to me to-day? 	
What was there in the book I wanted to read
one-half so precious to me as one cooing word 
from the prattling lips that quivered when I
turned away. I hate the book I read. I will 
never look at it again. Were it the last book
in the world I think I would burn it. All its
gracious words are lies. I say to you, though
all men praise the book, and though an hour
ago I thought it excellent, I say to you that
there is poison in its hateful pages. Why, what
can I learn from books that baby lips cannot
teach me?  Do you know I want to go to the
door of his room and listen; the house is so still
maybe he is not breathing. Why, if between
my book and my boy I choose my book, why
should not God leave me with my books? My
hateful books.
	But I was not harsh. I was only a little
impatient. Because, you see, his lesson was so
easy, so simple. Ah, me, there were two of us
trying to read this afternoon. They were two
easy, simple lessons. Mine was such a very
simple, easy, pleasant, loving one to learn. Just
a line, just a little throb of patience, of gentle-
ness, of  love that would have made my own
heart glow and laugh and sing. The letters
were so large and plain, the words so easy and
the sentences so short. I did not read one
line aright. See, here is my copy now, all
blurred and blistered with tears and the heart-
ache; all marred and misspelled and blotted. I 
am ashamed to show it to the Master, and yet
I know he will be patient with me; I know
how loving and gentle he will be  Why, how
patiently and lovingly all these years he has
been teaching me this simple lesson I failed
upon to-day. But when my little pupil stum-
bled on a single word—is my time, then, so
much more precious than the Master's that I
cannot teach the little lesson more than once?
	Ah, friend, we do waste time when we plait
scourges for ourselves. These hurrying days,
these busy, anxious, shrewd, ambitious times,
of ours are wasted when they take our hearts
away from patient gentleness, and give us fame
for love, and gold for kisses. Some day, then,
when, our hungry souls will seek for bread, our
selfish god will give us a stone. Life is a sim-
ple, easy lesson; such as any child may read.
You cannot find its solution in the ponderous
tomes of the old fathers, the philosophers, the 
investigators, the theorists. It is not on your
bookshelves. But in the warmest corner of
the most unfettered heart it glows in letters
that the blind may read; a sweet, plain, simple,
easy, loving lesson. And when you have
learned it, brother of mine, the world will be
better and happier.—Robert J. Burdette.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CLEANSING FIRES.

Let thy gold be cast in the furnace;
	Thy red gold precious and bright;
Do not fear the hungry fire,
	With its caverns of hungry light:
And thy gold shall return more precious,
	Free from every spot and stain:
For gold must be tried by fire,
	And a heart must be tried by pain!

In the cruel fire of sorrow
	Cast thy heart, do not faint or wail;
Let thy hand be firm and steady.
	Do not let thy spirit quail;
But wait till the trial is o'er,
	And take thy heart again;
For as gold is tried by fire,
	So a heart must be tried by pain!

I shall know by the gleam and glitter
	Of the golden chain you wear,
By your heart's calm strength in loving,
	Of the fire they have had to bear.
Beat on, true heart, for ever,
	Shine bright, strong golden chain;
And bless the cleansing fire,
	And furnace of living pain!

		SELECTED.


[Column 1]

"WHEN WE WERE GIRLS."

	How often women of mature years make
this expression to each other, when some little
incident of the past is awakened, or when
meeting with each other after a prolonged ab-
sence; how natural to say, "When we were
girls." And now I am going to give you an
incident which actually transpired, not "when
we were girls," but when we met again after
a separation of forty years.	
	Two girls who had been playmates in child-
hood and intimate companions at school, who
shared the same tasks, and whose lives seemed
likely to run on in the same channel, year
after year, and whose hopes and ambitions
were similar, and whose tastes and inclinations
were very like, and who had pledged the
school-girl eternal friendship for one another,
while yet young, drifted apart through religious
tendencies and belief. Still loving tenderly,
without any unpleasantness, each went her
own way. One to the "far west." or what
seemed so in those days, and the other re-
mained behind, clinging to the old Puritanical
notions of religion. Each had her own pecu-
liar life history; both were characteristic of
the girls; and indeed just what might have
been expected from their temperament and
training and education. Interwoven in both
their lives were the love of poetry and the
beautiful in nature, and this endowment de-
scended to their children, for though they were
New England girls they were not old maids.
	On a cold, wintry day, when snow lay deep,
and one would scarcely expect a visitor from a
distance, a lady alighted from a carriage at
the door of a rather old-fashioned house in a
large town in the Old Bay State, and after
ringing the bell, inquired for Mrs. Dr. ——.
"O, yes, she lives here." After having dismissed
the coachman, the lady is admitted into the
parlor, and in a moment more Mrs. Dr. ——
enters, and the two schoolgirls, playmates and
companions meet after forty years' separation.
It was a strange-meeting—two who had passed
through so many experiences since they last
met, and the change of face and figure that
motherhood and time bring with them—and
neither would have known the other, only that
the traveler had been told by the servant that
she whom she sought was the mistress of the
mansion. Here stood the two little women,
grown old and grey; they gazed at each other
for one moment only, and then, the Doctor's
wife, grasping the hand of her visitor, said:
'I know you are not my cousin Irene, for she

[Column 2]

is dead, and the dead come not back again, but
you are one of my old time friends, and I
ought to know you. Yes, yes, now you speak,"
for the visitor had, in her excitement, ex-
claimed,  "We knew each other well, when we
were girls." "O, it is, it is Emmie, can it be
possible?" and the two were, by this time, en-
folded in each other's arms in a loving and ten-
der embrace. "After all these long years you
have come back to us, to your old home and
friends in New England," and by this time
the two were seated on the sofa by a warm,
glowing fire, and the visitor had thrown off
her wraps, and the two friends sat, as it were,
entranced. I cannot tell you all that trans-
pired in that short interview, but I can give
you some idea of its effect; the Dr's wife every
now and then saying, "It seems as though you
had come from another world," and then again
she would say, "Of all the people in the
world, now that my mother and her sister,
Aunt Ursula, are dead, I would rather see
you than any one." Frequently she would say,
in beginning a new sentence, "When we were
girls, you know."
	They talked on and on, and many of the re-
markable events in each one's life were re-
counted briefly, but in truth the visitor had
most to tell, for her history was richer far, be-
cause of the countries she had seen and the
advancement she had made in active work for
her sex and for humanity, as well as because
the religion she had embraced, and that took
her from home and friends, had so engrafted
itself into her soul as to broaden and expand
all her ideas, thoughts and energies.
	"How has it fared with you all these years,
and what can you tell me of our school friends?
Where are the boys who stood in the front
rank of scholarship, of whom we were all so
proud?" Questions like these from the visitor
were answered one after the other in quick
succession. Information of half a hundred
old schoolmates was briefly given, and memory
recalled many a scene and transaction in the
past, and in fancy they wandered over the
same hills again, gathering berries, or rustlsd
among the fallen, frosty leaves under the
chestnut trees, picking up the brown nuts, their
fingers pricked and bleeding from the sharp
burrs.
	What a picture these two women made as
they sat there on that wintry day. They had
been so far apart. Many thousand miles had
lain between them, and in such different
spheres were their lives cast, that not a letter
had found its way from one to the other. Both
had been engrossed with matronly cares and
duties as well, and yet each acknowledged to
the other, now that they had met again, how
often and how tenderly they had thought of
the time "when we were girls."
	They met upon the same familiar ground of
intimacy as in the former days; no icy barrier
kept them apart even after forty years; they
did not question each other as to rank or
wealth; the old feeling of girl-love came back
instinctively, and their hearts rushed towards
each other, removing all embarrassment.
	The past came back to them in all its rich-
ness and glory, and they saw not the luxuriant
furnishings of the handsome parlor in which
they were seated, nor the fast falling snow
without, but the old village home and all its
familiar haunts; and they reminded each other
of this or that, until a description of the whole
place and its surroundings had been graphic-
ally given. They knew exactly how many
peacocks used to sit perched on the rail fence
under the locust walk, as they went by to
school; every phase of that happy school-life
it would seem, was recalled and retouched by
the vigorous imagination of the two who sat,
as 'twere, entranced with the "visions of the
past."

[Column 3]

"But thank'd be memory—her sweet power can bring
Back to my heart its early joys again; 	
Her magic power revives the frozen spring
Of youth and hope, and re-unites the chain
	Of sacred sympathies."

	Again and again bright tear-drops fell, or a
great sob choked them, as they spoke of some
dear departed one, with whom they had been
closely associated.
	There is something particularly sad and sol-
emn in going back over old places and home-
steads after the absence of years and finding the
great changes that time has wrought, but when
one meets a genuine friend, who has held you
in her heart of hearts without questioning, it
is a proof of constancy, of which we might
all be justly proud it is so uncommon.
Such a friendship is indeed golden. Such
meetings are like a foretaste of futurity. They
afford us a dim glimpse of that which may be
when we shall reach "that other shore," where
our loved ones are waiting. Then shall we re-
count the dangers we have passed, the ship-
wrecks we have encountered here below; but
these two women studiously avoided all these,
and were careful to keep back all the dark
days, all the fiery ordeals, and yet if you had
seen them as they sat and held that sweet con-
verse together, you would have known by the
marked lines in their countenances, and the
subdued and softened light that shone in their
deep-set eyes, that the discipline of sorrow had
left its sure impress. How like and unlike
those two women were, and yet how well they
blended.
	Some day I will tell you more, for there is
much more to tell, but well might we say with
Byron of such an one,

	"thou art the friend
To whom the shadows of long years extend."
		AUNT EM.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

JUAB STAKE. 

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety convened in the Nephi meeting house,
September 17th, 1886. On the stand were
Prest. Mary Pitchforth and Counselors, Amy
L. Bigler and Maranda Bryan, Sister M. W.
Snow of Salt Lake City, Prest. Mary A. Hyde
of the Relief Society of Sanpete Stake, and
representatives of the different branches of
Juab Stake; of the brethren, Prest. Charles
Sperry, Bishop Udall, Patriarch J. S. Bigler
and others.
	After the usual opening exercises, Prest. M.
A. Hyde addressed the sisters on the importance
of educating their children in the principles
of their religion, and providing them with
good books, and making home pleasant and
happy, for society is changing, and we must
keep our young folks from the allurements of
the evil one. A recitation, "The hand that
rocks the cradle," etc., by Mrs. M. E. Teas-
dale.
	Sister M. W. Snow referred to her long ex-
perience with the Relief Society; said she had
been a member of the R. S. organized by the
Prophet Joseph in Nauvoo, and had witnessed
with pleasure the good which had been accom-
plished by the sisters of Zion since that time.
Spoke of the great responsibility resting upon
the teachers, and exhorted them to be humble
and prayerful, that they might be guided by
the Spirit of God in all their visitations among
the Saints.
	Bishop David Udall said, "We are highly
favored in having the privilege of meeting in
quarterly conference, to transact business for
the Stake, and receive counsel from those who
are inspired of God to teach us of the plan of
salvation."


The choir sang, "Praise God, from whom all 
blessings flow," etc. Benediction by Bro. Geo.
Kendall.
	Afternoon session: Amy L. Bigler, Maranda
Byran and Jane Picton each exhorted the
sisters to faithfully perform their duties in the
Relief Society, and watch over their children
and keep them from the snares of the wicked.
A song, "Where are the friends of my youth,"
by Mrs. Elizabeth Grace, followed by remarks
from Sisters M. A. Hyde and M. W. Snow, on
revelation and the principle of celestial mar-
riage. A song, "Who's on the Lord's side,
who," by Mrs. Sarah A Andrews.  
	Prest. Mary Pitchforth felt to praise God
for the manifestations of His Holy Spirit dur-
ing our conference, and desired the sisters to
treasure up the good counsel which had been
given; and carry it out in their lives.  Recita-
tion, "The mountain boy's prayer," by Bro. L.
A. Bailey.
	Prest. Rebecca Udall, Counselors Sarah
A. Andrews and Ann Midgley each bore a
strong testimony to the truth of the Gospel,
and desired to prove faithful to every duty re-
quired of them. A song, "Stick to your
mother, Tom," by Mrs. L. Pratt.
	Prest. Charles Sperry desired to encourage
all Latter-day Saints to live their religion,
keep the commandments of God and prepare
themselvss for every event of His providence.
A reading, "What's the matter?" by Mrs. S.
A. Andrews. 
	Sisters Snow and Hyde, during the confer-
ence, each bore a strong testimony in regard to
the principle of plural marriage; they desired
to impress upon the minds of the rising genera-
tion, that Joseph Smith did practice plural
marriage, and that he sealed them to their
husbands, performing the ceremony in the
presence of their husband's first wives. Said
although the sons of the Prophet deny that
their father taught or practiced celestial or
plural marriage, they were living witnesses
that he did.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Awake, ye Saints of God, awake."
Benediction by G. Kendall.
		MARY PITCHFORTH PREST.
		M. E. BUCHHOLT, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Two of the thrones of the last Napoleon are
for sale in France at one hundred dollars
each.
	It will cost $4,000 and take 6,000 books of
gold leaf to gild the great dome at Notre Dame
university, Indiana. The work is now in pro-
gress.
	The Vatican library contains 24,000 manu-
scripts, of which 2,164 are oriental, 3,052
Greek, and 17,069 Latin. A complete cata
logue is now being prepared.
	The President and Mrs. Cleveland have re-
turned to Washington from their summer so-
journ in the Adirondack wilderness. Social
life at the national capital is beginning to re-
sume its wonted autumnal activity.
	The Princess Maria Josepha, niece of King
Albert Frederick of Saxony, was married
October 3rd, to Arch Duke Otto, nephew of
Francis Joseph of Austria. The Princess re-
nounced for herself and her descendents all
right of succession to the throne of Saxony.
	A telegram from the City of Mexico, Oct.
4th, states that a curious phenomenon has oc-
curred at Chimapla in that state. Within four
days tremendous subterraeann reports were
heard, though at the time the meteorological
conditions were perfect. The people in the town
were filled with alarm, and an investigation


was made, by which it was discovered that a
high hill in the vicinity had been completely
divided into two parts by some powerful
force.
	Captain Uriel Crocker, of Boston, celebrated
his 90th birthday at his country place in Co-
hassett, on the 13th of September last. He
was prominently connected with the raising of
the Bunker Hill Monument, and has been a
director of the Old Colony Railroad ever since
its organization in 1835. His business partner,
who sat by his side during the day, Osmyn
Brewster, is eleven months and eleven days
younger. Their's was the old firm of Crocker
and Brewster, Publishers and Booksellers on
Washington Street.
	It is said that Queen Victoria can wash and
dress a baby with any woman, and can general-
ly diagnose the trouble when a child cries.
The Queen's skill in baby nursing was acquired
from the famous Mrs. Lilley, who attended her
majesty at the birth of the nine royal children.
This excellent person was a great favorite with
the Queen, who honored her with her confi-
dence upon the most delicate matters. When
Mrs. Lilley died, in her ninety-second year,
her majesty was unaffectedly grieved, feeling,
that she had lost a true friend. The old nurse
to the last proved worthy of the confidence of
her mistress.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	They are never alone that are accompanied
by noble thoughts.
	It is really of little consequence who we are
—it matters more what we are.
	Determine a person's worth by his actions,
not by what people say about him.
	Ideas are the seeds of thought, but they do
not produce flowers unless the soil where they
are sown is fertile.—Lady Btessingion.
	A good wife must be grave abroad, wise at 
home, patient to suffer, constant to love, friend-
ly to all, and provident for her household.—
Theophrastus.
	In every relation of life we must bear and
forbear; we must not expect perfection, and
each person should carry the cloak of charity
for the other—Rev. M. Huggins.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Indian belles of Alaska wear a thick coat-
ing of oil and soot on their faces, when not in
full toilet. This is said to preserve the com-
plexion, which, after a thorough scrubbing,
looks as fair and smooth as a good article of
soft soap.
	Celebrations of one hundredth birthdays are
common occurrences nowadays. That of Mrs.
Mary H. Gilbert is the latest. She was born
in Gloucester, Mass., Sept. 8, 1786, and has
lived there since. At her birthday celebration,
she repeated a poem learned when five years
old.
	It is now reported that Miss Rose Elizabeth
Cleveland does not intend to make her home
in Chicago, and that she will go to housekeep-
ing in "The Weeds"—her home at Holland
Patent, N. Y. In this connection the Utica
(N. Y.) papers publish the following: "To
my friends and neighbors who have this day,
by their unmeasured kindness and marvelous
energy, saved to me my old home, I wish to
make some expression of my sense of obliga-
tion. I beg them to believe that no words can
ever express the gratitude I shall forever feel.
		ROSE ELIZABETH CLEVELAND.


"My dear," said an anxious wife to her hus-
band, who is running for office, "we must econo-
mize in every possible way."
	"I do economize," he replied.
	"Yes," she said, "you spend ten or fifteen
dollars a day in treating a lot of bar-room
loafers to beer and whisky just to get them to
vote for you. Do you call that economy?"
	"Certainly; that's political economy."—
Life.


F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agents for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address DAVID JAMES, Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY., UTAH
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,

And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

