VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1886.		NO. 9.


TRUST IN GOD.

Trust in God, he'll ne'er forsake you,
	If you strive to do what's right;
Bear in mind, when grief o'ertakes you,
	Darkest nights bring morning light.
	
If in shadow lies your journey,
	Foot it bravely to the end,
Trusting God to send you sunshine—
	He will always prove a friend.

After rain the sun seems brighter,
	Then, despair not, who can tell?
For wise purpose He may smite Thee,
	For "He doeth all things well."

		MARY L. MARLER.
Soda Springs, April 27, 1886.


TRUTH.

An ocean jewel, cast upon the strand,
Unseen, yet glittering 'neath the trampled sand,
Neglected and alone, in darkness lay,
Till time, in many a wave, had rolled away.

In vain the loud surge dashed upon the shore,
In vain the lightning's wrath, the thunder's roar,
Securely slumbered in its lowly bed,
A rarer gem than e'er decked kingly head.

At length, a shining edge peered forth to view,
A sun-lit drop, as 'twere, of morning dew,
And yet no glance e'er rested on the prize,
None guessed what lay concealed from human eyes.

Men came and went, but all were proud and vain,
They gazed upon the sky and distant main,
Eager for wealth, yet none would look so low,
Or stoop for gems, howe'er so bright, below.

Along the lonely beach, one summer day,
It chanced, at length, a little child did stray,
Beheld the jewel, sparkling in the sand,
And drew it forth with tiny, eager hand.

And thus the treasure, which had lain concealed,
In Fate's full ripened hour to be revealed,
Long kept from pride, or mammon's sordid sight,
By humble means at last was brought to light.

E'en so with Truth, the richest, rarest gem,
Save one, in Christ's eternal diadem;
By Merit worn, though oft in meanest guise,
Men scorn the source and trample on the prize.

	O. F. WHITNEY.
July, 1886.


MRS. NEWMAN CORRECTLY RE-
PORTED.

DEAR MORMON SISTERS:
	There are so many matters of interest upon
which I wish to write to you, I hardly know
what or which to leave unwritten. Mrs. Angie
F. Newman! Well, what shall we say of her?
Firstly, I should like to know  where Mr.
Angie Newman is, and what he is doing all
the while she is traveling about from pillar to
post in behalf of the "down trodden women of
Utah?" Did not domestic duties tie me at
home, I would be tempted to find Mr. N , if
there is such a being, put him among the Mor-
mon men, and then start out to stir up a flame
of pity and sympathy for them; for really, it
seems to me, if things are so bad as the papers
represent them to be in Utah, the Mormon
men are more to be pitied than the women.
I know some men have a pretty serious time of


it with one wife; with more than one, God pity
him!
	If Mrs. Newman has no family, domestic,
marital obligations—is a widow, then I believe
I know her, at least, I once heard Paul telling
Timothy of her.
	What she said in Cincinnati was truthfully
reported.  I do not know who the reporters
were, but heard the lecture, read the reports,
and can vouch for the correctness of the lat-
ter.
	I send you some Cincinnati papers contain-
ing accounts of a new religion, or rather a new
phase of religion, which has sprung up in that
city among the highest, best and wealthiest class
of citizens. There appears to be a great re-
ligious fomentation going on everywhere. A 
little leaven of some sort has been put in by
some invisible power, either for good or bad,
and the whole religious lump will be leavened.
If Mormonism is of God it will stand and grow,
for "God giveth the increase;" but if Mormon-
ism belongs to other than God, it will fail.
	May we all, individually, be up to duty,
"kind and affectionate one toward another,
tender hearted, forgiving one another, even as
God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven us." With
best wishes,
	Your sister,
		EMILY SCOTT.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	PITTSBURG, Pa., Sept. 19, 1886.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	DEAR SISTER:—With feelings of joy I write
a few lines, hoping you and yours are well, and
still in the sunlight of the Gospel of Christ.
The last time I wrote, you were away from
home visiting Kirtland, Nauvoo, and thither
to different places, on missionary work. I
read at different times in the papers of the al-
most Herculean task you had undertaken, in
company with those other noble-hearted sisters,
and I prayed to my Heavenly Father to bear
you up and give you strength, that you might
be able to speak words suitable to the occasion.
I have meditated much upon the condition of
this nation, and I feel that the Latter-day
Saints will leave the people without excuse at
the great day which is near at hand. When
I hear of the attitude taken by the faithful
of this Church, it bespeaks a power that is
more than human, and one must be very blind
not to see the hand of Omnipotence made bare,
and the labors of those engaged in this noble
mission will not be lost. A bright day will
soon dawn for Zion, and those who have sought
the destruction of the Latter-day work will be
sent to their own place to reap what they have
sown.
	A short time ago, as I sat reading the news,
I noticed some correspondence from Penn.,
dated at Coal Valley, and I learned from it
that there were Elders laboring in that section;
the writer called himself a missionary; I read
it over and over; I scarcely could believe what
I had read, that Elders were so near me, but I
made up my mind to find them, asking my
Heavenly Father's aid; so on July 5th, a holi-
day I set out to find Coal Valley, contemplat-
ing a treat, if I could only meet with genuine
Mormons.
	I found Coal Valley sparsely settled, and
nearly all the people were away on that day

[Column 2]

for enjoyment. I did not know who to inquire
for—not even a name. A boy was seated on a
log by the railroad depot; I asked him if there
were any Mormons lived around there? He
said, "Yes, right up yonder among them old
houses there are some." Off I went, and soon
met with a woman, who, upon a similar inquiry,
directed me to a log shanty down on the river
bank, where she said a Mormon lived named
Baxendell. I soon found the place, and for
the first time in twenty years I had the privil-
ege of shaking hands with a true Latter-day
Saint. My heart was full. I cannot tell you
what my feelings were on that occasion. The
Elders were then out preaching. They had
heard of a brother somewhere in Pittsburg,but
had not been able to get his address, but had
written to the Deseret News Office in Salt Lake
City for it. I told them I lived in Pittsburg, and
had written several times to the Deseret News,
and also the sisters' paper, the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT. Bro. B. asked what name I used in
the EXPONENT? I told him no name, just H.
M. W. Then he knew it was the same person
they had tried to find, and we shook hands
again. When we parted he gave me some
copies of the Epistle of the First Presidency.
His wife wished me to leave her the copies of
the EXPONENT I had brought with me, and I
told her I had brought them on purpose. The
next day I mailed a copy of the Epistle to
each of the following papers: The Dispatch,
Times, Chronicle, Telegraph, Commercial
Gazette, Penny Press, Post, Leader, and to the 
last a copy of the ladies' appeal to Congress.
He is a bold and fearless editor, and I thought
his paper would be the best to send that ap-
peal to, as I had only one copy. The cup of
iniquity of this nation is fast filling up. May
the Saints be wise and be upon the watch
tower, for there is no time to trifle away. I
feel happy in Mormonism, and love this work.
I hold a certificate of the last branch I was
in before I came to this country, and since I
have been in America I have not been near
any branch of the Church. I have been try-
ing to do right, and I feel proud of my religion,
and mean to gather to the bosom of the Church,
and bring with me the Holy Spirit, and be able
to give a good account of myself. My prayer
is for Zion; her troubles have borne heavily
upon my mind, and when I read of good and
holy men being sent to prison, I feel in my
heart I would rather go there than that they
should; I would rather suffer than have them.
The cause of Zion is in my thoughts and medi-
tations all the day and all the night long. My
prayers are for her suffering ones. May the
smiles of heaven rest upon them.
	Your brother in the covenant.
		H. M. W.
	P. S. Since this was written the Elders
have been to my house; I was indeed pleased to
see and entertain once more men holding the
holy priesthood.	W.


CONDITION OF SOUTHETN LADIES.

	ALABAMA, Sept. 2, 1886.

EDITOR WOMAN'S JOURNAL:
	A bright, progressive Northern woman said
recently in my hearing, upon being told that
Queen Victoria would permit no woman who
was divorced from her husband to be presented
to her; "Well, I would much rather never be


[Column 1]

﻿presented to Queen Victoria than live with a
man who abused me, or whose very touch was
pollution."
	I know a southern woman, a member of one
of the oldest and most aristocratic families of
Alabama, who says: "There is no indignity I
would not submit to, no amount of abuse I
would not bear, rather than do so unladylike a
thing as to leave my husband."
	This lady's life is exceptionally pleasant.
Her husband is devoted to her, has abundant
means, and her wish is law to him. Possibly,
were she differently situated, she might see
things in another light. At present she be-
longs to the large class of shielded, protected
women, who have never felt the rough blasts
of life, and have neither mercy nor pity for
their less favored sisters.
	These two women represent two extremes of
thought. From my point of view, the North-
ern woman is right, and the Southerner, with
her superior education, her elegant manners,
her cultivation and accomplishments, and her
rare opportunities for society and seeing the
world, is, as one of Charles Egbert Craddock's
characters would say, "fairly sodden in igno-
rance."
	The article in your Asheville correspondent,
in WOMAN'S JOURNAL for August 28, has
moved me to tell some things that I know of
the condition of the higher class of Southern
women, "the idols to whom every knee bows."
The women of whom "Asheville" speaks are
of the lower classes. At least, the men who
hold them in bondage have the excuse of igno-
rance. But the women whom I have to tell of
are educated, refined, cultivated. Their pedi-
grees antedate the Revolution. The men of
their families have boasted of their chivalry
for generations.
	I know a pretty little lady, a wife of two
years standing, but even now barely past
twenty, who is suffering from a horrible disease,
the gift of a profligate husband. She is pure,
lovely, and religious. She has no idea of the
nature of her complaint. Her physician tells
her she has been poisoned by ivy or poison oak.
Parents, husband, and physician all unite to
deceive her because they fear if she knew of
her husband's vileness, she would be so shocked
and horrified that she might refuse to live with
him, and so "disgrace the family."  When he
is absent from her, intent upon vicious plea-
sures, she writes him a loving letter every
morning, kisses his picture, and prays for him
every night. Her own parents look on ap-
provingly, willing to see their child sacrificed
on the altar of vice, rather than have their
annals stained with the "disgrace" of a separa-
tion.
	Some years ago a lady of an old and aristo-
cratic family married a "chivalrous" gentle-
man, who immediately assumed control of her
property, which was large, and was also en-
trusted with the guardianship of her younger
sister. Some two or three years after the
marriage she died very suddenly, soon after
signing a will which left him all her posses-
sions. Six months after her death he married
the younger sister. It was then discovered
that he had not only spent nearly all the first
wife’s money, but that he had betrayed his
trust as guardian, and had squandered the
second wife's property before he married her.
Then many suspicious circumstances came to
light, and it was soon believed by nearly all
the family that he had poisoned his first wife
so that he might marry the second and thus
cover up his defalcations. He became a
drunkard, and his drunkenness was of the
violent kind. For twenty years his wife bore
the abuse that a man maddened with drink is
capable of heaping upon a woman. She sat
for hours with a leaded pistol held close to her
head, the drunkard threatening to fire if she
stirred hand or foot. She passed many, nights
hidden under beds in the negro quarters. Her

[Column 2]

life was one agony of fear. She brought
children into the world to suffer with her, and
she saw the last cent of her property melt
away. But she never for an instant thought
of leaving him, nor would her family have con-
sented had she wished to do so. They all be-
lieved him to be a murderer; they knew him
to be a thief; that her life was a prolonged tor-
ture no one denied. Yet all this was as noth-
ing compared with the "disgrace" of a divorce.
Her relatives supported and pitied her, but
had she refused to endure her torment longer,
not one of them would have received or coun-
tenanced her. Finally he died, in a fit of de-
lirium tremens, and she was free to gather up
the fragments of her shattered life and make
the most of them. Twenty years of life with
a murderer, a thief, and a drunkard, to avoid
the disgrace of a separation!
	This happened "where woman remains in
the position where the deference of manhood
placed her;" in the country which "stands on
a much higher plane than the north;" where
the "outrage or murder of women so rarely
stains the criminal records."
	It would seem to the impartial observer
that a little agitation of "woman's rights"
would be a good thing among people whose
judgment is so warped. In short, that it might
be better not to be presented to Queen Vic-
toria.
		TRUTH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿CIVICS AND WOMEN.

EDITOR WOMAN'S JOURNAL:
	The following is from the Boston Woman's
Journal:
	Principal E. H. Cook read a paper on "Sys-
tematic Habit in Education, or The Study of
Civics in Our Public Schools," before the New
York State Teachers' Associations at Niagara
last July. The following is an extract:
	"How can the girls who are to supply the
large majority of the teachers for the coming
generation teach the subject of citizenship
without any knowledge thereof?
	"I would give to every girl as well as to
every boy a thorough training in the prepara-
tion for citizenship which the coming genera-
tions will demand from them. And here let
me go farther and say that every individual
student must have before him an inducement,
in order to become earnest and faithful in the
preparation for life work.
	"Take away from the boys of our land the
inalienable right of the ballot, and how many
of them will study with interest, value or
pleasure the history of our country and its
glorious institutions?
	"In order, then, to interest our girls in these
institutions, should they not have the same in-
ducement that is held out to the boys, viz: the
God-given right of the governed to have a
voice in the selection of those who shall govern
them, which can only come through the ballot.
	"Wendell Phillips said: 'Responsibility edu-
cates, and politics is but another name for
God's way of teaching the masses ethics, under
the responsibility of great present interests.'
	"I do not stand here as an advocate for
woman's rights, sometimes sneeringly so-called;
but for human rights, the right ot every indi-
vidual to voice by their suffrage who shall rule
them. I say, then, that the first step to secure
proper instruction on this subject and prepare
the majority of those who are to teach in our
public schools, is to place the ballot in the
hands of every person of proper age and in-
telligence, and put the responsibility of its
proper use upon every individual.
	"Without the proper and sufficient induce-
ments being extended to the large majority of
our teachers who are women, there will be


no careful and thorough preparation for the
work.
	"The denial of the right of suffrage to a
large majority of our people is a direct viola-
tion of those principles upon which our gov-
ernment is founded, and which are dear to
every American heart.
	"The social evils which are undermining the
best interests of our country can never proper-
ly be settled or adjusted until justice shall be
assured by placing the ballot in the hands of
all our citizens under proper restrictions.
	"The proper settlement of the great ques-
tion which involves the material and moral in-
terests of this land more than any other, viz.
the liquor traffic, can never be arrived at until
that large class whose prosperity and happiness-
are largely dependent upon this settlement,
viz., women, have an equal voice in its adjudica-
tion."
	Here is an opinion that has weight, coming
from a man in his position (Principal of the
Potsdam, N. Y., Normal and Training School)
who is not trying to advocate woman's rights,
but only stating an educational principle.
					E. L. BENEDICT.
	New York, Sept. 10, 1886.


Y. L. M. I. A., UTAH COUNTY.

	Report of the meetings held by the presi-
deney of the Y. L. M. I. Associations of the
Utah Stake of Zion in the southern part of
the county.
	Minutes  of  the  Y.  L.  M.  I.  A. of
Springville, held in the meeting house, Sept.
13, 1886 with President Hattie Daily presid-
ing.  After the opening exercises, President
Jennie Tanner advised the young ladies to
preserve their health,the greatest blessing aside
from virtue; also to spend their time in reading
such literature as would refine and tend to
their advancement.
	Mrs. M. J. Tanner spoke of the beauties of
Zion, and closed by advising all to guard well
their actions, treat strangers with civility, not
to be given to forwardness and intimacy as
they would be led astray.
	Miss Evlyn Billings advised them to profit
by the instructions they had received and to
prize their virtue, a jewel that when once lost
could never be restored, and one false step
taken would lead them to destruction.
	Similar meetings were held throughout the
Southern part of the County.
	Spanish Fork, Tuesday, Sept. 14, President
Banks presiding; Salem, 3 o,clock p.m.,
Sarah Sabin presiding; Payson 8 o'clock p.m.
Ida Coombs, President; Santaquin Sept. 15,
Emma Wall presiding; Goshen, Sept. 16, M.
A. Price presiding.
	The visitors were entertained by the various
wards in a cordial and hospitable manner, and
found the Associations in a favorable condi-
tion although some of their meetings were not
as well attended in the summer as the winter
season, circumstances being such as to require
them to be elsewhere, yet they were energetic
in taking part in furthering the progress of
the work.
	ONE OF THEM


A floating church for the island of Arran,
Scotland, is the latest novelty, the Dnke of
Hamilton, who owns Arran, having refused
to allow any United Presbyterians a place of
worship on the island. The modern ark is to
be moored in Landlash Bay, one of the snuggest
anchorages on the Scottish coast, and the mem-
bers of the congregation will be pulled on
board from the shore in small boats when the
ship's bell rings at the masthead. The Duke
is an Arran(t) bigot, but his canny Scots ten-
ants have outwitted him.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


COURAGE.

Fainting heart,	look	up, take courage,
	Clouds are melting fast away.
And beyond night's glowing portals
	Breaks the dawn of cloudless day.

Let the rays of hope's bright sunshine
	Penetrate thy weary heart;
And with courage strong and mighty,
	In life's contest take thy part.

Ne,er give way to idle dreaming,
	Act	with	all thy will and might.
Push thy way through inky darkness
	Toward the blessed realm of light.

All around is dark as midnight,
	Low hang clouds of dim despair;
But look upward, fainting traveller,
	And behold—the light is there!

		SELEC ED.


DREAMS OF THE NIGHT.

Dreams, sad dreams, why do you come,
From that far off land, my childhood's home,
Bringing the voices and forms of the past,
I thought I'd forgotten, at last, at last?

I can drive you away with the duties of day,
That throng the present of my life's way,
But at night, you reign in the realm of dreams,
And oh, so real your presence seems!

Why do you mock me with hopes that are dead,
Making more lonely the path I tread?
For ever will come that beautiful pain,
When I live, e'en in dreams, the past again;

When I feel again, in that shadowy land,
The well known clasp of a dear, dear hand,
And walk again 'neath the moon-lit sky,
And whisper sweet hopes of "bye and bye,"

Knowing nought of the blight to fall,
Throwing its shadow over all—
Oh, to destroy life's love and trust
Is a deadlier death than "dust to dust!"

Oh, may we hope that the future holds
Something to gather the scattered folds,
To mend the links of the broken chain,
And bring back heart to heart ugain.

Or e'en to forget—but no, ah, no!
I would not forget, though the myrtles grow
Where once bloomed roses fresh and fair,
With daisies, pansies and lilies rare;

But I'll take them all, and a wreath will twine
For those who have drank of the sorrow wine,
To lay at the feet of Him who will know
The worth of each heart-drop shed below.

And then in the realms where Christ is King,
He will form a crown, while the angels sing,
And every drop shall a jewel shine,
In that crown, when touched by that Hand Divine.

		HOPE.


[Column 1]

SOME PEOPLE WE HAVE MET.

	There has never been a year probably when
so many distinguished people have visited Salt
Lake City as the present one. The words of
the prophets are certainly being fulfilled
in this particular as well as in many others.
That many should come up to Zion to see and
to learn, and also to purchase articles manu-
factured in Zion. As yet the people here can-
not pride themselves very much upon home
manufacture, in this respect the saints are far
behind what they ought to be, and what they
might have been had more money been ex-
pended at home in establishing industries and
giving to the people employment than in send-
ing away to purchase articles made elsewhere.
In this matter of home industries the Saints
have much yet to learn, or at any rate to put

[Column 2]

in practice the teaching which has been given
to them, and there is no doubt the Lord will
be more willing to bless them in hearkening to
this wise counsel instead of enriching by their
purchases those who are seeking to deprive
them of their rights and even of liberty.
	There might be more little articles of in-
terest made here that would be pretty
souvenirs for strangers to carry away and in
this way leave a little money and it is the
trifles that seem insignificant in themselves
that help make up the total and great sums.
	Among those who have interested us particu-
larly as men and women of marked intelligence,
we really ought to mention a few whom we have
had the pleasure of meeting this last summer.
One of the most liberal minded gentlemen was
Frederick Robie, Governor of the State of
Maine, now filling his second term of office,
and though he was one of the G. A. R. he did
not at all approve of the rabid speeches made
by some of the company,and expressed his disap-
proval of the matter to us in plain terms.  His
speech was short, but the spirit of it was kind-
ly, and there was nothing in it that could have
been objectionable to any. Gov. Robie spent
an evening at our home, and we found in the
course of conversation, that we had some mu-
tual acquaintances, whom we had known in
school days, who had since made themselves
quite distinguished as statesmen.
	We had very pleasant calls from Mrs. Annie
Wittenmeyer, a distinguished speaker, and
also author of books and elaborate works on
the temperance question, and for many years
President of the W. C. T. U., Mrs. Maggie
Monroe, Secretary of the "Woman's Relief
Corps" of the G. A. R., Jennie June, who
came one day when we were out of town, and
left her regrets, saying, we had many mutual
friends, and Mrs. Clara Foltz, a distinguished
attorney at law, lecturer and speaker, from
California; also an active worker in the cause
of woman's suffrage, and of woman's advance-
ment in all the pursuits of life.
	Prince Wittgenstein of Russia, and the
Duchesse de Luynes, who came with a letter of
introduction from a lady in Boston, not men-
tioning other professional people, as well as
those who do not carry a title. These are a few
of the many who have called, and with whom
we have conversed upon the principles of the
Gospel, the settling of the country, the estab-
lishing of local government, the persecutions
of the past and present, the homes of the peo-
ple, etc., etc., answering numerous irrelative
questions in the mean time.
	While absent last winter and spring we had
the opportunity of meeting some very noted
people, and we promised to write and to pub-
lish items in regard to visits and interviews,
that we have not yet had the time to do.  We
have in mind, and intend yet to write up our
visit to the great American Poet, John Green-
leaf Whittier; also to Elizabeth Stuart Phelps,
Lucy Stone, Julia Ward Howe, and the people
we met and places we saw, for instance, Niagara
Falls, Mount Vernon, a veritable Mrs. Jellaby
we found in Boston, and so on; the New Eng-
land woods and villages, which, for failing to
elaborate, we have been somewhat censured;
the meeting with old schoolfellows, the places
where we learned a. b. abs, as well as geography,
grammer and arithmetic, the old homestead,
the village factory, the hemlock, pine and
golden rod, these and a hundred more
things may furnish material for many a
sketch.
	In conclusion let me ask of the sisters some
testimonies upon the subject of plural marriage,
chapters from their own individual experience.
Almost every stranger who steps in to purchase
a copy of the paper, asks the question, "Does
it give the views of women on plural mar-
raige?" And if we say "yes," they seem satis-
fied, but if "no, there is not anything positive

[Column 3]

on that subject," they immediately express a
desire for information on that topic. And
now, dear sisters, can you not supply some
good material of this kind for the edification
of those who may "read as they run?"
		AUNT EM.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Miss Cleveland has contributed to the Oc-
tober Chautauquan a paper on "Woman in the
Home."
	At the opening of Parliament on August 5th,
in the House of Lords, some thirty or forty
ladies occupied seats in the body of the House,
while several were also seated in the stranger's
gallery usually reserved for gentlemen only.
	"Ouida" expresses the belief, in the current
number of the North American Review, that
women have not sufficient intellectual capacity
for the suffrage. One evidence may be that
they sometimes read "Ouida's" novels.—Provi-
dence Journal.
	The Committee of the Cobden Club have
elected Miss Florence Nightingale, Mrs. Cob-
den Sickert (daughter of Richard Cobden,
Mrs. G. M. Crawford, of Paris, and Mdle. M.
Raffalsvich, members of the club. They are
the first ladies whose names have been en-
rolled.
	The "literary gentleman" who wrote to the
Boston Herald that Mrs. Julia Ward Howe
had been invited to reply to Ouida in the
North American Review and had declined be-
cause Ouida was so corrupt, was misinformed.
The Editor of the North American says,
"Mrs. Julia Ward Howe never was invited by
the North American Review to write a reply to
Ouida."
	Women should be more trusted and confided
in as wives, mothers, and sisters. They have
a quick perception of right and wrong, and
without always knowing why, read the present
and future, read characters and acts, designs
and probabilities, where man sees no letter or
sign. What else do we mean by the adage
"mother wit," save that woman has a quicker
perception and readier invention than man?


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Many wonderful things appear in nature,
but nothing more wonderful than man.—
Sophocles.
	A quarrel is quickly settled when deserted
by one party; there is no battle unless there be
two.—Seneca.
	In the education of children love is first to
be instilled, and out of love obedience is to be
educated.—S. T. Coleridge.
	When we find that we are not liked, we as-
sert that we are not understood; when probably
the dislike we have excited proceeds from our
being too fully comprehended.—Lady Blessing-
ion.
	God preserves us from the destructive power
of words!  There are words which can separate,
hearts sooner than sharp swords; there are
words whose sting can remain through a whole
life!—M. Howitt.
	Our physical well-being, our moral worth,
our social happiness, our political tranquility,
all depend on that control of all our appetites
and passions, which the ancients designated by
the cardinal virtue of temperance.—Burke.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, n Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY,	OCTOBER 1, 1886.


﻿SEMI-ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	The Fifty-sixth Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will
be held in the new Stake House, at Coalville,
Summit County, U. T., on Wednesday, October
6th, 1886, at 10 a.m. All the officers and members
who can attend are cordially invited.


[Column 1]

A FEW THOUGHTS.

	How strange it seems that Conference should be 
held in Coalville, or anywhere, in fact, away from
Salt Lake City; and this change is only one of the
many recent changes and developments brought
about through the persecution of the enemies of
the Latter-day Saints, On every hand we can see
the ruin wrought by the enforcement of the Ed-
munds law. Not only are the people deprived of
the society and counsel of the leaders of the
Church, leaving them, as it were, "at sea," or "as
sheep without a shepherd," but many have been
sent to loathsome prisons, and their families
broken up and scittered, and even if not left in
poverty, deprived of their rightful protectors, and
suffering mentally through the cruel separations,
that the rendering of the law renders absolutely
necessary in its construction by the Judiciary.
The changes in family affairs, and the exiling of
men of means and executive ability is working 
great financial changes and hardship to the whole
people, that are being felt more and more as time
goes on. One can scarcely refrain from saying, 
"What will the end be?" And who can answer?
Or "to what will this persecution tend?" To these
questions one can only reply, "The Lord will take 
care of His people; He will make bare His arm in 
their defense," and so on. His promises are sure
and cannot fail.
	In times past the people looked forward to the 
Conference with the most pleasing anticipation.
The city was always in holiday attire; business
was prosperous; money plenty; and then the 
teaching from the stand in the Tabernacle was al-
ways looked forward to as a spiritual feast, and
also adapted to the practical needs of the people.
How changed the scene and the feeling now!
Every one is anxious and inquiring one of another,
and wondering how the tide will turn, and asking
of each other what course to pursue. Many are
growing diligent, who were before negligent of
duties, and the faith of many waxing stronger; 
and among the youth of Zion, while a portion are
indifferent and carried away with vanity and the
pride of the world, others are seeking to learn of
the truth, and to know the ways of the Lord, and
to walk in His commandments. There has been,
in days gone by, such prosperity and so much
teaching and instruction here at the fountain head,
that the people have been, as it were, flooded with 
light, and perhaps have forgotten or neglected to 
appreciate the great and choice blessings that lay 
all about them, until they were almost spurned.
Now they are willing to gather up the fragments 
and find upon them, and are almost left in dark-

[Column 2]

ness, to grope about for blessings that were once 
poured out upon them in rich abundance.
	There is and must be a purpose in all this, and
by and bye it will be evident; in the meantime
the Saints must trust in God, and wait His good
pleasure to deliver them from the thraldom which
has gradually come upon them, and which seems
to fasten itself more securely as time goes on,
threatening them with complete bondage. Justice
seems to have fled from the courts; there is no
longer any hopes entertained, by those who are
accused, of obtaining a fair trial, The jury is in-
structed to convict, and a trial is almost a farce.
There is such a feeling of hostility and hatred to-
ward any Mormon who is arraigned in the courts,
who has fidelity to principle and honors his coven-
ants, that it seems impossible for those who hold
the scales of justice to show even a semblance of
the elements of that grand attribute. Things of
this kind have been going on from bad to worse,
until one would really suppose they had reached
the climax, but the people have looked in vain for
this denouement, and the conclusion forces itself
upon the mind that human effort is utterly unavail-
ing. The most eloquent and earnest pleadings of
the finest lawyers in the land, bringing to bear
with their clear cut words the logic of the law
itself, as established by precedent and usage, are
all of no avail in this relentless crusade upon the
Mormon people, who are on trial for a religious
principle. The heartrending pictures of desola-
tion and misery presented in the ruined homes,
where the mother and little ones are left without
protection, touches not the hearts of these merci-
less enforcers of "the law." What care they for
the destruction they are spreading far and wide,
while it is only Mormons who suffer? What have
the Mormons done to them that they should thus 
pitilessly pursue them? They have made the
desert habitable for them; they have so manipu-
lated the affairs of the Territory of Utah, that
it has become a desirable place for the office seeker
and money maker; and this class having become
possessed of the idea that Utah has vast resources
that might be appropriated to the base purposes,
of aggrandizement and luxuriance, for those who
might, by chicanery and political intrigue, wrest it
from the tillers of the soil, the honest husband-
men, and those who redeemed and subdued it, and
have since prospered in the land, making them-
selves "families as a flock," with homes and inherit-
ances, and they are determined to leave no means
untried to accomplish their designss. But they are
assuredly "reckoning without their host." They
cannot have taken into consideration that they are
fighting against God.
	The Lord had a purpose in bringing His people
into these valleys. He knew the strength of these
hills and mountains, that form, as it were, a fortress
as formidable as the walls of Jericho; He has not
done this in vain; He knew the treasures that
were hidden away in the secret places of the
mountains, the gold and silver and precious metals,
and it was reserved for the building up and beauti-
fying of Zion. The Gentiles may hunt for these
hidden treasures, but their search will be compara-
tively fruitless, and disapointment will be their lot:
and in the due time of the Lord will He make
manifest His power in the deliverance of His
Saints, and it will no more be said, "The Lord
liveth who brought His people out of the land of
Egypt," etc. In the meantime humility and meek-
ness are necessary, and an implicit trust in the
divine guidance, faithfulness and devotion, with
the most earnest efforts and endeavors to live
nearer to God and keep His commandments.


[Column 1]	
	EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE expect some notes , from the funeral ser-
vices of Mrs. King for the next number of the
paper.
	THE minutes of the Y. L. M. I. A. Conference

[Column Two]
of this Stake have not yet reached us, but will
likely be published in our next issue.

	"THE Final State of Mankind, as Demonstrated
by the Prophecies of the Old and New Testa-
ments, also the Book of Mormon and the Doc-
trine and Covenants of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints," by Elder John
Sears, is in pamphlet form, neatly gotten up, and
published by Joseph Hyrum Parry and Co. The
contents have been carefully examined by compe-
tent authority, we are informed by the author, and
webelieve it may do much good. It plainly sets
forth important truths, of which corroborative testi-
mony is given in the three books mentioned. Our
young people should take pains to gather such
information for their own benefit and the good of
others, that they may be able, when called upon,
to bring forth strong reasoning. This little work of
36 pages is excellent reading, and cannot fail to 
be interesting to all who delight in spiritual things
and in obtaining a knowledge of the dealings of
our Father in Heaven with His children. It opens 
with a poem by the author in five verses, which
gives an idea of the contents of the book, and is
very well and smoothly written. There is a neat,
well-written preface, in which he states that he
does not set himself up as a "teacher of some
newly discovered truths, but to place in a simple
and honest manner, those glorious principles em-
anating from the Fountain of Light, which he
trusts will have a tendency to illuminate the path
of those who may peruse it, opening up to their
minds the prospect of a happy future, and the
rich reward in store for those who serve God and
keep His commandments while passing through 
this state of probation."
	WE have received, with the compliments of C. 
R. Savage of the Art Gallery in this city, a very
handsome little book, entitled, "In Memoriam"—
Helen Hunt Jackson (H. H. ) It is printed on
exquisitely fine paper and tied with white ribbon.
It looks outside like an emblem of purity, and it
contains in its leaves a picture of the lady herself,
though it is not half so good looking as Mrs.
Jackson—she was a magnificent woman in person-
al appearance—and a picture of her grave at Pine
Hill Forest in the Cheyenne Mountains, another 
of the Cheyenne Mountain near Colorado Springs
and the late residence of this celebrated author.
The description of the place was written by Mr. 
Crawford, and is in the most beautiful language,
but as we have already published two or three
descriptions of her resting place from different 
writers, we will only select the closing lines from
her own gifted pen:

	"Dear hearts whose love has been so sweet to know,
	That I am looking backward as I go.
	Am lingering while I haste, and in this rain
	Of tears of joy am mingling tears of pain;
	Do not adorn with costly shrub or tree,
	Or flower, the little grave which shelters me.
	Let the wild, wind-sown seeds grow up unharmed,
	And back and forth all summer unalarmed,
	Let all the tiny, busy creatures creep;
	Let the sweet grass its last year's tangles keep;
	And when remembering me you come some day,
	And stand there, speak no praise, but only say,
	'How she loved us! It was for that she was so dear;
	These are the only words that I shall smile to hear."

	TUESDAY, September 21st, the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Union Ward held their annual meeting, Mrs.
Sarah Buxton presiding, assisted by her Counsel-
ors, Mrs. Della Brady and Miss Mary L. Charles.
After singing, prayer and singing, the Secretary,
Miss A. M. E. B. Sharp read the minutes of the 
organization, and the statistical and financial re-
port for the two years past, it being a complete
report since the date of its organization. The
showing was very good both in the interest of im-
provement and practical benevolent work. The
Secretary also read written resignations from the
Assistant Secretary and Treasurer, who were no


longer able, on accout of circumstances, to fill the
positions, and Mrs. E. B. Sharp was appointed
Assistant Secretary, and Miss Ellen C. Anderson
Treasurer, which made the organization again
complete. A mannscript paper, called "The Well
