VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1887.	No. 24.


THOU ART LOVELY, THOU ART
FAIR.

Thou art lovely, thou art fair,
Maid of sunny, golden hair,
Eye of azure 'neath its curl,
Lips of coral, teeth of pearl!

Sure, the soul that has its shrine
In that face and form divine—
If such things did e'er agree—
Must a soul of beauty be.

Radiant as a vesper star,
Gazing fondly from afar,
To mine eyes thou dost appear
Being of a brighter sphere.

Though I ne'er may call thee mine,
Lovely star, still o'er me shine;
Though I ne'er may see thee more,
Still thy memory I'll adore.

Thou art lovely, thou art fair,
Maid of sunny, golden hair;
And thy silvery voice shall seem
As the music of a dream.

Orson F. Whitney	W.


EQUALITY OF SEX.

	All mankind are the children of our Hea-
venly Father. One sex cannot say to the other,
"He is not your Father; He does not love you
as much as us." God has prepared a way
whereby all His offspring can return to His
presence, by obedience to the laws He has laid
down.
	Men and women are equal in their sphere.
One cannot get along without the other; neither
can one say to the other "We have no need of
you." "Man is not without the woman, nor the
woman without the man in the Lord."
	Men have no more right to tyrannize over
their wives, than wives have to tyrannize or
domineer over their husbands. There is no
need for bossing on either side, if each will do
his or her duty, and not intefere with the
rights of the other.
	The man stands at the head of the family to
govern in righteousness, in love and kindness.
His position does not give him the right to exer-
cise unrighteous dominion over his family. The
wife is under no obligation to honor or obey her
husband if he does not obey the laws of God.
Woman's sphere of usefulness is as great, and
her influence as widely felt as man's. She was
placed upon the earth with man to be his com-
panion, his helpmate and his equal. "She
was not taken from his feet to be trampled upon
by him, nor from his head to rule over him,
but from his side to be equal with him; near his
heart to be loved and cherished by him."
	Women have rights that should be respected,
but we need not be surprised if they are not
respected by all the "lords of creation" when
the ladies of creation are so careless and iudiffer-
ent about their rights and privileges. If
women had more respect for themselves, under-
stood and maintained their rights, they would
be entitled to more respect and would receive
it. Women are ignorant of their rights and
privileges. Many do not think anything about
the matter, and others are affraid to express
their views for fear of ridicule, and a third
class talk to suit the occasion. Such people
cannot be relied upon; you never know how to
understand them.


Few women have the courage to stand by
their convictions, because they are sneered at
and ridiculed by those who should know better-
Ridicule and sneers do not make their cause
less right, but it lessens those who sneer in the
eyes of those who desire to see equal rights and
fair play to all. Men who speak disrespectfully
of women lower themselves very much in our
estimation. The greatest and best men who
ever lived had women for their mothers.
Mothers mold the characters of the children.
They should mold their sons to respect women
and give them their rights. Not until women
take this course will they be respected and
recognized as the equal of men.
		M. E. TEASDALE.
	Nephi, March 24th, 1887.


[Column 1]

LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

M. J. TANNER.

Continued.
	Monday, April 27, 1885. We went over to
New York to-day and called at the hotel to see
Bro. Hart. We visited several places of inter-
est, among which were some large stores. We
saw so many beautiful things that I quite
longed for a full purse or an unlimited bank
account. We called at the A. T. Stewart
building; the present proprietors are Denning
& Co. It is a magnificent building of iron
and marble, and covers, we are told, two and a
half acres of ground. It is eight stories high,
and has not a partition wall on the whole
building. All the floors are supported by iron
pillars.  In the center is a circular dome, reach-
ing to the roof, which is covered with glass and
helps to light the building. At every floor
is a railing of molding or carving, and all is
white. The building covers an entire block,
the front entrance being on Broadway. It is
lighted by windows on all sides, and there are
several doors to enter by. The building is
unique, and we are told there are no other
stores in New York just like it. We did not
go all through, as they were preparing to close,
so I cannot give a fuller description. The
counters, seats and goods were being draped to
keep off the dust. We saw costly ornaments
and beautiful statuary, and laces which, no
doubt, bore fabulous prices. We were informed
that they would send goods at retail prices to
any address in the United States free of express.
It was getting late and we took a street car to
the ferry. After crossing on the boat we took
another car, which brought us home. Here
we found a cousin waiting to see us, Miss Alice
Newman of Red Bank, N. J. We were pleased
to meet, and soon became sociable, running a
talking match until about twelve o'clock. We
talked of Utah, of Mormonism, of polygamy
in fact of about everything that could be talked,
on in that length of time. We quoted Scrip-
ture, history and philosophy, and wound up
with a desire for a better acquaintance, and an
invitation to visit her at Red Bank. I also
made out quite a list of genealogies.
	Tuesday, April 28th. Cousin Alice went
home this morning, promising to come again
before I leave. Mrs. K. is very sick, and I
feel quite out of sorts. So much talking and
sight-seeing are somewhat exhaustive. Towards
night it begins storming, and storms hard all
night.

[Column 2]

	Friday, May 1st, 1885. It rains this morn-
ing, but I have promised to meet Bro. Henry
to-day, and he will meet me in Philadelphia.
My cousin's son, Eddie Kimball, escorts me to
Jersey City, and puts me safely on the car. I
take my bearings and mark the route, for I am
going to be very brave and come back alone.
As I travel on out into the great world alone I
feel a little nervous, but I trust to Providence
and let the future take care of itself. I enjoy
myself looking at the country, and finally find
myself at the waiting room at Philadelphia
ready to be called for.
	I look around and see a good many people
sitting or walking about, and I wonder if they
all know where they are going, or if some of
them are waiting to be called for, and if every-
body knows I am a stranger and a little green.
I draw myself up and try to put on a look of
importance, just as though waiting at depots
was an every day occurrence. Presently I see
an elderly gentleman walking about as though
he was looking for somebody. As he passes
me I look for his right hand. He holds the
proverbial blue cotton umbrella in it, and I see
that the thumb is gone; I know he lost it in the
civil war. I look at him and he looks at me.
I venture to ask if he is looking for some one.
He assures me he is. I tell him my name is
Tanner; that is his name. I follow him out,
he takes my satchel and we board a street car,
the rain still falling. After a few minutes ride
we stop and enter a restaurant. Here I am
introduced to the proprietor and his wife, who
are some sort of relations. We take dinner,
and as it is still over two hours before the boat
leaves we wait there, for it rains too hard for
us to see anything of the city.
	Finally we start out again, he with my
satchel in one hand and the umbrella in the
other, I holding to his arm and trying to take
care of my dress. After a short walk, during
which I see very little but people and houses,
we are on board the steamer, "Jersey Blue,"
floating down the broad waters of the Deleware
River.
	Brother Henry tries to show me all points
of interest, but the weather is too cloudy and
foggy to see things clearly at a distance. A
foreign vessel passes us drawn by a "tug." It
carries the flag of the Hawaiian Marchant with
the U. S. colors floating in front. There are
a great many people on deck. I have never
seen a ship before, and it amuses me to see the
great big boat moving lazily along after the
saucy little boat called a "tug," which went
puff, puff, as if swelling with an overdue sense
of its importance. Here a noted battle was
fought in the Revolutionary War, and there
was another point of interest. I try to stand
out under the awning where I can see better,
but it is so cold I am glad to go in the cabin
and look through the windows.
	After a ride of twelve miles, we land at Bil-
lingsport.  It has nearly stopped raining, and
we walk up to the house, about half a mile.
It is a very pleasant road. bordered with cedar
trees, with fields on each side, and an occasional
house. We are greeted with a warm welcome
by his wife and daughters, two fat dogs and
five spotted cats. They hasten to get us some
supper, and as I am very tired I retire early.
	Paulsboro, Saturday, May 2nd 1885. It is
not raining, but is cold and windy. We have
fresh shad and sweet potatoes for breakfast,
and eat off a table which served the officers in
the Revolutianary War. It is a black walnut


[Column 1]

table, and the shad and sweet potatoes are ex-
cellent. I am shown a corner cupboard and
some china and silver ware which, I am assured,
are over a hundred years old, and did service
before the revolution. Brother Henry knew
something of Mormonism, having been a mem-
ber of the Church through Kirtland, Missouri
and Nauvoo. He went east from Iowa and
staid there, married and settled in New Jersey.
He served in the civil war and lost his thumb
—a small member to lose, but serious in its
effects, as it unfits him for such employment as
he depended on for a living. I am not such a
curiosity to them, but wherever I am intro-
duced there is a flutter of excitement. Henry
took us for a ride this evening to Paulsboro,
which is their post office address, they living a
little way out of the town.
	Sunday, May 3rd. Went to-day for a visit
to "Cousin Jesse Brown's." It is six miles
through a beautiful country. We spent a
pleasant day.  "Cousin Jesse" and his wife—
he is a cousin of Henry's wife—came to Utah
thirteen years ago to visit her sisters, Mrs.
Whipple and Mrs. Snyder. They called on
me at the time, and I told them I had come to
return their visit. They have a beautiful
home, on a farm, and showed us many places
of interest; among other things was a sassafras
tree, which stood before the Revolution, and
was supposed to be two hundred years old. We
returned by a different road, which gave us
quite an interesting view of the country.
Everything is green and pleasant. The coun-
try is level, and the hamlets and farm houses
are so pleasant, speaking, in many places, of
wealth and refinement. We stopped at the
Eggleton Cemetery, one of the loveliest resting
places for the dead that I have ever seen. I
could but contrast it with some of our own
cemeteries, or more properly called "grave-
yards." Of course much of the desolate ap-
pearance of ours is caused by lack of rain.
We gathered a few pieces of evergreen as
souvenirs, and came away from the city of the
dead, thinking how much more pleasant it was
than some of the houses of the living.
	Monday, the 4th. I go in the woods this
morning to gather wintergreen. The berries
are gone, but we pick the leaves and have a
pleasant walk. It takes me back to my child-
hood to ramble in the woods. I spend a pleas-
ant day in visiting, and in the evening Henry
takes me to the lighthouse; we go up in the
tower where the lamp is and see the lens,
which, we are told, cost $500. There are three
lighthouses near here; they are called range
lights, and protect navigation on the river.
The lights look in the distance like balls of fire
in the darkness. The river is dotted here and
there with lights from the little fishing boats.
The lighthouse keeper is a Mr. Preston. He
was wounded in the civil war, and, after pass-
ing through untold suffering in the hospital,
came out crippled for life in one leg and foot.
	Tuesday, May 5th. We go to Philadelphia
to-day. We go up on the boat and take a car
for Fairmount Park. The main buildings of
the Centennial Exhibition are removed, and
the ground is being prepared for lawns or flower
gardens. The smell of the compost is any-
thing but pleasant. We enter Memorial Hall
and look through the museum. As the clock
struck twelve two figures of men stepped out
and played sweet music; when it ceased striking
they glided back and the door closed after
them. We are tired and hungry, and go to a
restaurant and call for a lunch of bread and
butter and a cup of tea, for which we pay ten
cents. Being rested and refreshed, we visit
Horticultural Hall. These are the only build-
ings left standing of the grand Exposition.
The city considered it too expensive to keep
them up, and they have been sold or suitably
disposed of. Entering the hall the air is very
warm; it is not oppressive, but gives us a kind

[Column 2]

of Turkish bath, starting the perspiration at
every pore. Here are rare trees and plants
from every part of the tropical world. My
pen cannot describe the scene, but it is deeply
impressed on my mind. We do not see many
flowers; I suppose they are not in season. We
stand under palms, one leaf of which covers
us, and if broken off, would no doubt, be more
than we could lift. Here are bamboo trees
reaching to the roof; I do not know how high
it is, but it is very high. Here are india rub-
ber trees, century plants, and ferns in endless
variety. We get so warm we are afraid to go
out in the wind. We wrap our shawls around
us and sit down in the sun to rest. We try to
catch a car to take us to Fairmount Water
Works; we get wrongly directed, and are so
tired we give it up and go to the city. Car
fare here is six and eight cents. We stop at
Wannamakers. It is an immense store and
seems to comprise every department of trade.
We visit Independence Hall, a life insurance
building and several other places of interest.
We pass a cemetery, where we see the tombs of
Benjamen Franklin and his wife, covered by
large granite slabs, lying flat, with inscriptions
on them. Here is a beautiful conservatory,
with grass next the sidewalk, where we can
look through and see such lovely flowers.
There is quite a little romance connected
with it. The owner, once a poor boy, was
passionately fond of flowers, and he felt it
so keenly that only the rich could enjoy
such things, that he said if ever he was rich
he would have flowers where poor people
could enjoy them. In course of time he
was gratified, and built his conservatory
where everyone could look in and see the
lovely flowers.
	We do not go back by the boat, but ferrry
across the river and take the train for Pauls-
boro. We change cars at Woodbury; it is
certainly the neatest little depot I ever saw,
laid out with lawns and flowerbeds. Here is
the residence of G. G. Green, the manufac-
turer of August Flower and Greenman Syrup.
He has a handsome residence, with grounds
beautifully laid out, the lawns nicely kept
and beds of tulips blooming here and there.
They contain several large buildings, where
the medicines are manufactured. A few
years ago he was a poor man, not fond of
work nor able to live without it. No one
thought him of any consequence. He com-
menced making patent medicines, and, presto,
change, here he is. It looks like a fairy tale.
Henry is waiting for us at Paulsboro with
the carriage, and we get home quite tired
out.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PLEASANT PARTY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is not often that we write to you of any-
thing that takes place in this part, and perhaps
we should still remain silent, but for an inci-
dent that happened here recently, small, indeed,
compared to the great events now taking place
in the earth, but of much interest to the few
concerned.
	The teachers of the Relief Society of the
Second Ward of Brigham City, desiring to
show their love and respect for our worthy
President, Sister Mary E. Snow, and wishing to
give her a little surprise, met for that purpose
at her residence on Friday afternoon, May 6th.
When she caught sight of us marching up to
the door in double file, heavily laden with large
baskets, well filled with the good things of this
life, and with our Stake President at the head,
she opened her eyes in surprise and exclaimed,
"Why did'nt you tell me?" However, she soon
made us feel quite at home, and such a time as
we had of hand-shaking, embracing, and such
expressions of love and kindly feeling one to-


wards another, as is seldom witnessed except
among the Latter-day Saints. The cloth was
soon laid and the table filled to its utmost ca-
pacity. When all were seated, Stake President
Harriet Snow, in earnest tones of gratitude in-
voked God's blessing on the food. After par-
taking of the sumptuous repast, accompanied
with chocolate and good homemade beer, and
repaired to the parlor, where a hymn was sung,
and speeches were made by Prest. H. Snow,
Amelia Knutesen, Coun. Mary Nichols, G. M.
Jeppsen, Sister B. Burt, Lucy A. Nichols, Ann
Boden and Ann J. Wixom, all expressive of
love and good wishes for the recipient of the
surprise, and thankfulness to God for all the
blessings we enjoy in this our mountain home.
Sister Snow, in appropriate remarks, thanked
the sisters for the honor conferred upon her,
and for their good will and confidence, and
Coun. Nancy A. Bigler made the closing speech,
who, bye the bye, was chief mover in the affair.
The hymn, "We thank thee, O God, for a
prophet," was sung, and the closing prayer was
offered by Prest. Mary E. Snow.
	The occasion was a very delightful one, and
the poor and sick in the ward were not forgot-
ten.	Respectfully,
		ONE OF THE BAND.


IN YE OLDEN TIMES.

	Prior to the American Revolution every
colonial farm-house and every blacksmith's
shop was a manufactory. For everything was
literally manufactured—that is, made by hand.
The blacksmith hammered out axes, hoes, forks,
spades, ploughshares, scythes and nails. A
tailoress went from house to house to make up
the winter clothing, and was followed by the
shoemaker.
	The farmer prepared the leather from skins
which had lain in the vat for a year, and his
wife made ready the cloth. Spinning-wheels
buzzed from morning till night. Skeins of
woolen and linen yarn hung on the walls of
every house. Seated on the loom-seat, the best
woman of the family plied shuttle and treadles
—weaving blankets, sheets, table-cloths, towels, 
bed-curtains, window-curtains, flannels and
cloth for garments.
	Every woman in the household manufactured
something. The aged grandmother spun flax
with the little wheel; the youngest daughter
carded wool, and the oldest, if the men were
busy, hatcheled flax. It was hand-work that
did it, and every hand did what it could best
do.
	The women, whose "work was never done,"
not only carded, spun and wove, but they
milked the cows, made butter, bread and cheese,
soap and candles, cooked the food, did the
washing, and in harvest raked hay, pulled flax,
and dug potatoes.
	The neighbor, who happened in for an after-
noon's gossip, brought her work. The mother
patched or knitted, as she rested by the fireside,
or quartered apples for the children to "string"
and hang in the morning in festoons on the
sunny outside walls. All were busy—always
busy.—Selected.


Christine Nilsson is soon to be presented at
the Spanish court by Count Miranda, her hus-
band.
	Empress Elizabeth of Austria has rheuma-
tism, and will try the hot baths of Mehadia,
Hungary.
	An account is given in the Chicago papers,
apparently authentic, of a woman who recently
died in the city, leaving four living husbands
from whom she had not been divorced. We
shall have to call for some anti-Mormon legis-
lation for Chicago as well as Utah.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"HOW LONG WILL THE HEART
BE DYING?"

Ah, how long will the heart be dying?
	Is a question we often ask,
While the agonized cry unanswered
	Resounds through the universe vast.

How long, crushed with anguish unspoken,
	Under doubt's burden weight held fast,
Pulsating with torture and broken,
	Can its ebbing of life-blood last?

When glad, earthly hopes and bright visions,
	All along life's pathway have fled,
When its fairest flowers are blighted,
	Its dearest one's scatter'd and dead.

When friendships strong ties have been rended,
	And their fragrance of memory gone,
With love's fondly cherished and tended,
	How long will the tried heart live on?

How long with relentless fate striving,
	With darts from detractions pierced through,
Poisoned arrows, malice sent flying,
	From caldrons of envy's foul dew?

How long with ingratitude stricken,
	With censure and impious scorn,
Can poor human hearts hold resistance,
	O'er cruel oppression and wrong?

Aye, how long keep the signal flags flying,
	O'er	battlements tattered and torn,
Will the heart in its grief be dying,
	 How long ere it ceases to mourn?

A bleeding world calls forth in sighing,
	In travail of bitterest woe,
How long shall the tried heart be dying,
	Is the boon we crave to know?

From the far off hills of the morning,
	When the breezes are gently stirred,
Comes the call in echo returning,
	Like the notes of a wounded bird.

It rings through earth's mighty cathedral,
	From above around and below,
How long shall the tried heart be dying?
	Is the boon we crave to know:

Martyred graves, and the wreck of nations,
	With united throb and throe—
And ever the echo's repeating,
	Is the boon we crave to know?

		L. M. HEWLINGS.


[Column 1]

PARTING LOOK AT MUNICH.

	This morning we were off to the New Pina-
kothek, where the modern pictures are found.
We knew the building as we would know the
face of a friend long before we reached it. The
frescoes on the exterior give it a most individu-
al appearance. The temperature was the only
thing that seemed unnatural. It was comfort-
able. We had shivered through the rooms
many a time in the cold days of the winter.
The danger of freezing one's feet, does dampen
the ardor, or cool off the enthusiasm of the
most aesthetic minds, as the benumbed tourist
vainly endeavors to comprehend the beauty of
Hess, Kaulbach or Rottmann. "The Deluge"
looks just as terrible, notwithstanding our own
personal comfort while we contemplate it. We
are told that the sensitive nature of Schorn
was so shocked by the work of his own hands
and brain that his mind gave way, and death
was the consequence of his mental prostration.
"The Destruction of Jerusalem," so wonder-
fully treated by Kaulbach, leaves no such
haunting phantoms as the "Deluge." Its softer
and more beautiful designs are more prominent
than the work of destruction. The encaustic
views of Greek landscapes have a new charm
as we come upon them again in these warmer
days. The mellowed light falling upon them
from above is better than we found in the gray
of winter clouds. We can only give a short
call now on our favorites, but we stop to re-

[Column 2]

new our acquaintance with Reidel's "Italian
Women," and make our bow to the ladies of
the royal family of Bavaria. Many a fair
lady smiles down from the canvas. Most of
these court beauties were young and beautiful
when the artist secured these interesting por-
traits.
	We would be glad to linger hours in this
familiar gallery, but the inexorable hand of
time points beyond, and we go on to take our
last look at the Glyptothek. The statues of
Italy have not weaned us from our regard for
this collection. The two colossal lions with
human heads still keep guard at the entrance.
The originals of these monsters, taken from the
palace of Kalah in Assyria, are to be found in
the Louvre. We go down the Egyptian Hall
with a sort of friendly feeling for the queer old
Sphynxes and priests who stand up in stone,
grey or white or black, as the case may be,
just as they did when the world was somewhat
younger than she is in our time. The Hall
of AEgina is the one which interests us most.
To-day we have a good classical scholar
with us, and we are anxious to show off the
relics of AEgina. These sculptures, the work
of artists who lived long centuries before
Christ, are looked upon as among the most
valuable remains of ancient art which have
come down to us. Many of the figures are
from one of the old temples—probably that 
of Minerva. The two groups which origin-
ally adorned the pediment are of especial
interest. They represent the combats around
the body of Achlles and that of Laomedon.
The figures are less than life size and were
found in many fragments. The wonderful
skill of Thorwaldsen has given them back to
us, perfect in all respects. The action con-
veyed by the two groups is striking, but the
features seem tame and expressionless. We
sigh over our lack of time as we hasten
through hall after hall, dedicated to the gods
decorated with wonderful frescoes and filled
with such marvels of work. We are taking
leave of our favorites and our parting must 
be brief. We save the Hall of Bacchus as
a precious morsel till towards the last of our
stay. It contains the "Winckelmann Faun"
and the sleeping satyr or "Barberini Faun."
We think of Donatello and Miriam, Kenyon
and Hilda, and go over the ground with
them, pondering the legends of the faun,
and Hawthorne's fanciful rendering of the
"Romance of Monte Beni." The author has
only looked a little below the surface of
everyday life. Human characters are de-
veloped from human experiences and emo-
tions. The mortal lineaments are as plastic
under the influence of habitual thought and
action as the clay is in the designer's hands.
The noble life leaves its stamp. The spirit-
ual life lies back of the physical, ready by
development to break through and glorify the
countenance as it blesses all on whom it
shines. We left the great satyr in his stony
sleep, chained by the artist's hand to his
centuries of repose. So long as that marble
endures through all the time to come, inac-
tion is the portion which the master mind of
its creator has decreed as its fate.
	The "Isar rolling rapidly" makes a charm-
ing view as it rushes under the picturesque
bridges which always tempt one to stop and
admire their surroundings. We drive down
the broad Maximilian Strasse that we may
get our best sight of, and cross the Maxi-
milians-brucke the handsomest of the bridges.
We inspect the beautiful gates of the city,
go over to the Basilica of St. Boniface to
show off the frescoes of Hess and his pupils,
feeling in some sort that the honor of the
city lies in our hands now, and that we
must put it before others in its best possible
light. We persuade our friend to be enfolded
within the embrace of the watchful Bavaria,

[Column 3]

and then saving our best treat that we may
crown our day with it, we are left at the
door of the dear friends whose beautiful Ger-
man home had been such a restful retreat to
us on our previous visit to the old city. Our
desire to see them once again before going
northward had been the strongest incentive
to our return.
	They made us welcome in such hearty fash-
ion that our measure of content was full.
Their hospitality was delightful in its kind-
est manifestations. We sat on the sofa and
talked of the old times and the new times, the
Old World and the New World, the old friends
and the new friends, and we all felt in our
hearts that there could be no friends like the
old friends and the true friends. Those whose
experiences have run side by side with our own
in youth, if worthy, gain a place in our affec-
tions not so easily reached in the haste and 
care that crowds upon our after years. Some-
times, it is true, our guest chambers may be
held in readiness for those who have been de-
tained along their way, who by some chance
our eyes have not been able to make out at first.
We know those, too, when once we have met
them, and their welcome is assured. There is
something more than pleasure in finding our
friends after many years of separation, putting
our hands in theirs, and finding the clasp as
hearty as of old. To have no shade of disap-
pointment enter into such reunions, makes the
meeting one of unalloyed satisfaction. To sit
on the sofa in a German home is to be hon-
ored. We enjoyed our honor to the full. The
grandmother of the family, who had come over
the sea so many years before to make a new
home for herself in the land of her child's
adoption, sat in the other corner full of earnest
questions about those on the other side. The
gentle-hearted German father watched a fair-
haired daughter as she busied herself in sweet
household ways, and with her own hands made
ready the dainty evening meal. Plants blos-
somed before the windows; the piano stood
open and the rooms showed in many ways the
charming taste of those who lived such genu-
ine healthful lives as these good friends. That
tea drinking was more than meat and drink.
Even pleasant things come to an end. There
was a last clasp of the hands, a farewell for
many years perhaps, the servant lighted us
across the court, the great gate was locked
behind us, we wondered what made it so
dark, and went silently down the street.
		R. R.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	There are 60,000 women farmers in Ire-
land.
	The Sultan of Turkey is happy in the pos-
session of 494 wives.
	The richest colored woman in America is
Mrs. Amanda Eubanks, of Rome, Ga., who
pays taxes on $400,000 worth of property, in-
herited by will from her white father.
	In Duruy's History of France, the writer
says: "The first king of France was Phara-
mond, an imaginary being, who had neve
existed. He was succeeded by his son."
	Mr. Norman W. Dodge, of New York, has
instituted a prize of $300, to be awarded at
each annual exhibition of the Academy to
the best picture painted in the United States
by a woman.
	A society to promote the higher education
of women has been founded in Japan, with
the prime minister as president. The whole
institution will be under the control of a
foreign lady principal.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MAY 1, 1887.


[Column 1]

﻿THE "MORMON" WOMAN'S PAPER.

	OUR readers are doubtless aware that the pres-
ent number closes the Fifteenth Volume of this
little paper. Sorry indeed we are that it is late,
but "it is never too late to mend," and we hope
that the next volume, now commencing, will be
more regular, more interesting and withal more
worthy of the patronage of the women of the Lat-
ter-day Saints. We do not expect the patronage
of the outside world to any great extent, as the
principles advocated herein are at variance with
the belief and practises of the people of the world
at large; yet we have sold and given away during
the last year to hundreds of tourists each one copy
or more of the "Mormon"woman's paper,and have
had the opportunity of conversing upon the prin-
ciples of the Gospel with tourists and travelers
almost every day.
	The paper has certainly been in many ways a
blessing to this people, and another avenue
through which the Gospel, to a certain extent, in
simplicity and in a humble manner may be pro-
claimed. In our experience in the Church we
have often heard sisters who were zealous for the
truth say, how glad they would be to have the
privilege accorded to them,which the Elders have
who are called to labor in the interests of the
Church abroad; this expression or similar ones
are often used. Every mother in Israel has a
noble mission to fill at home, of this the sisters
are fully aware, but there are possible yearnings
in the hearts of some women, and indeed there
may be special endowments and knowledge of the
truths of heaven given that may be imparted to
others, and to the world of mankind with good re-
sults. For instance it is often said in the world
"such a one was born a poet," or of another that
"she was born a teacher of her contemporaries,"
if that is the case, and history furnishes abundant
proof that it is so, why, may it not be so in the
Church of Latter-day Saints?
	Certainly through the colums of the woman's pa-
per. There is an opportunity offered for all those
who have these aspirations and desires to edify,
instruct, comfort, bless and teach those who may
read what has been, or may be written by them.
	The Sisters have, through their own paper a
grand opportunity for culture and development in
writing and publishing, upon moral, intellectual
and Gospel subjects, and it is a privilege that
should not be ignored. There are young women
who have talents and time at their disposal, who
might contribute largely to the current literature
of the day through the sources open to them; yet
we are sorry to say, many of them let the golden
opportunities pass by, wherein they might sew
broadcast some precious seed, that though small
perhaps in comparison, might bear excellent fruit,
and if no positive success ever attended it, there
is a great satisfaction in feeling one has done what
she could.
	There are missionaries abroad in different parts
of this land, and other lands, who have realized

[Column 2]

great good from the writings in the EXPONENT,
and are proud to acknowledge it. It finds its way
into many homes, where the sound of the Gospel
has never been heard, and it has been the humble
means of removing prejudice and correcting false
impressions, made by those who are ever on the
alert to injure the cause and the people who are
seeking to establish the kingdom of God upon the
earth.
	The organizations of women have been greatly
promoted in their interests through the circulation
of this paper and indeed it is one of the helps in
the work of the Relief Society the Y. L. M,
I. A. and the Primary Associations. The meet-
ings and Conferences of these organizations
held in all the Stakes of Zion in America and
abroad find a place of record in its columns from
time to time and the workings of the several
branches of these great promoters of benevolence
and spiritual culture thus become better known.
	We hope and trust that the agents for the EX-
PONENT will not grow weary in well doing but
continue to labor diligently in the future as they
have in the past,and urge upon the sisters the need
of a paper of their own in which they may express
their sentiments upon all subjects of interest, and
advocate the principles of the Gospel they have
embraced and assist in advancement and progress
in that which will tend to the higher culture and
development of the daughters of Zion, and the
dissemination of the truth of heaven as revealed
in these last days through chosen men of God.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE sincerely hope that all our patrons and
friends will excuse the unavoidable delay in issu-
ing this number of the EXPONENT; circumstances
entirely unlooked for have been the cause, and it
is a matter of great regret on our part that we were
not able to be prompt in the matter, but hope no
such painful occurrences will prevent its regularity
in the future. It is the intention during the present
year to make ample recompense for any inattention
in the past, which may have appeared to those un-
acquainted with facts, like neglect of an import-
ant duty, but we hope to be able to give to all in-
terested perfect satisfaction in the future.
	TO all the subscribers of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT we wish to say, that if they have not each
one received a copy of the Prophet's mother,
"Lucy Smith," know in the Church as MOTHER
SMITH, we would like to be informed to whom
and where to direct, as it has been the aim and in-
tention to supply each subscriber with one of these
pictures. Those living in and near Salt Lake City,
we have thought it would be much better if they
would call for them, to save rolling, as it has been
something of a labor to roll them up so as to pro-
tect them from injury in going through the mails.
We are very anxious that all should have a picture,
and it is considered, by those acquainted with the
venerable mother in Israel, a very good likeness.
	HELPFUL VISIONS is the significant title of a
new work recently issued from the Office of the
Juvenile Instructor, and is the fourteenth of the
Faith Promoting Series, designed for the youth of
Zion. The contents are first "A Terrible Or-
deal" in two chapters by Bishop O. F. Whitney
giving the thrilling experience and remarkable
manifestations of Elder David Patten Kimball,
and the testimony of his son Patten, and others,
substantiating the marvelous spiritual occurrences
therein recorded. The fulfillment of the predic-
tions made at that time should be a strong tes-
timony to all who read with the spirit and the un-
derstanding, The next in order is "Briant L.
Stevens" by Kennon and is a sketch of the life
and spiritual devotion of a child who died in
his fourteenth year, and yet had accomplished in
that short time in the interest of the Gospel more


than many men of mature years. It is a most in-
teresting life-record. Third is entitled "Finding
Comfort," by Elder Thomas A. Shreeve, and is
much longer than the other sketches; but
also contains experiences and incidents calcu-
lated to awaken and inspire faith in the young
Elders of Israel who are called to preach the Gos-
pel to the nations. Fourth subject is "Traitors,"
by Elder Ben E. Rich and should be as a voice
of warning to all, for as he truthfully says, "a
traitor can never be anything but despicable."
Bro. Rich illustrates his chapter with examples
that are well known in history, but which taken in
connection with his essay, as it might properly be
called, are brought home to the reader with an in-
creased moral force. We have perused the book
carefully and most heartity recommend it to the
homes and libraries of the Latter-day Saints.
For sale at the Office of the Juvenile Instructor,
Salt Lake City, Utah. Price 25 cts.


﻿OUR CHILDREN.

	Lawful wedlock or marriage was sanctified and
made holy by God for the purpose of increase, and
not merely for the gratification of the baser pas-
sions. The command to Adam and Eve was to
multiply and replenish the earth, and this, accord-
ing to the Book of Mormon, was “that they might
have joy.” What is true in regard to Adam and
Eve is true in regard to all their sons and daughters.
The original command remains in full force to-day,
having never been revoked. And of all the bless-
ings bestowed by heaven there is none that at all
compares with the blessing of posterity. It is the
grand key to the eternal lives about which we love
so much to talk.
	No greater calamity can befall a family than to
have its name blotted out for the want of a son to
perpetuate it. On the other hand, if no other
justifiable reason could be assigned for the practice
of polygamy, the giving to every pure and virtuous
woman an opportunity to fill the measure of her
creation would be justification enough; for every
pure woman is worthy a pure and virtuous hus-
band, and all attempts to deprive her of this privi-
lege are in violation of a true and correct principle.
When the law of God prevails there will be no
cause of complaint in this regard.
	Those who prate so much about one woman
only for one man, and quote in proof that Adam
had Eve as his only wife, know nothing of the
true history of Adam and Eve; of their mission to
this earth, and the peopling thereof; of the fall
and their redemption. Is this the only earth that
has been created and peopled, and is the mother
of this earth the only one that ever had or will
have such honor? This may be all that a narrow-
minded Christian monogamist can possibly con-
ceive, but we know better. Enoch said, “Millions
of earths like this would not be a beginning to the
number of thy creations, and thy curtains are
stretched out still.” Will not each earth then,
with its inhabitants, pass through similar ordeals
to the one we occupy, as pertaining to its crea-
tion, its peopling, its fall and its redemption?
Certainly, nothing could be more reasonable, and
in relation to the female progenitor of each one of
these countless creations, the words of the in-
spired poet might apply, uttered many years ago:

	"And what to Eve though in her mortal life
	She was the first, the tenth, or fiftieth wife:
	It mattered not to her, she proved her worth,
	And thus became the Goddess and the Queen of earth."

	But, woman-like, I am wandering from my
text.
	We find ourselves upon the earth, and sur-
rounded with offspring, the result of marriages
sanctified by God through sacred ordinances. Now
what is our duty in relation to these children God
has blessed us with? Mothers, look around you,
and see the changed conditions as compared with


the first years of our settlement in these valleys.
The proposed regenerators of the Mormon people
are here in full force; they have brought with
them characters of every grade, who have intro-
duced amongst us the follies and many of the
crimes of modern Babylon, making the labors of
the mother manifold in watching and guarding her
offspring against their evils, and it will require the
utmost vigilance on our part to preserve the purity
of our offspring. Our late President, Brigham
Young, in speaking upon the responsibilities of
mothers, uses the following forcible language (see
