Vol. 15		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1886					No. 8


TRUE FRIENDSHIP. 

O, 'tis not when riches and splendor surround us,
	That friendship and friends can be put to the test;
'Tis but when afflictions cold pressure hath bound us,
	We find which the hearts are that love us the best.
		For friends will fawn,
		At fortune's dawn,
	While the breeze, and the tide waft us steadily on;
		But if sorrow o'ertakes us,
		Each false one forsakes us,
	And leaves us to sink, and to struggle alone.

And though on love's altar, the flame which is glowing
	Be brighter, yet friendship's is steadier far,
One wavers, and turns with each breeze that is blowing,
	And is but a meteor, the other's a star.
		In youth love's light
		Burns warm and bright;
	But it dies ere the winter of age is past,
		While friendship's flame
		Burns ever the same;
Or grows but the brighter, the nearer its last.—
								Selected.


A CALL.

	Cling together! O ye people
		Of the Great Eternal God
	Ye are treading now the highway,
		That His Saints before you trod.
	Shoulder firmly, brace to shoulder,
		Clasp unyielding hand to hand;
	Leave not one without the circle,
		Who has faith and strength to stand.
	Yet when knees begin to tremble,
		And when faces turn aghast,
	Press not heavily upon them
		But uphold them to the last;
	And should all their faith forsake them
		That they cannot stand at all.
	Then be careful that ye slip not
		Into places where they fall.

	Quickly close the gaps they're making,
		Forming still a solid band;
	Shoulder firmly braced to shoulder,
		Hand unflinching clasped to hand.
	Heads erect and hearts uplifted.
		Firmly stationed be your feet;
	Forward press, and onward, upward,
		No surrender, no retreat.

	Long may be the march and weary,
		Strong may be the' oppressor's pow'r;
	But the God we serve is mightier,
		He who saveth every hour.
	He who built the walls gigantic
		Round the lands we occupy,
	Towering in majestic beauty,
		Strong, impsing, grand and high.

	He who led our sires to freedom,
		Neath the glorious stripes and stars;
	He who cheers our friends and brothers.
		E'en through prison gates and bars.

		He who soothes the hunted exiles.
	In their lonely weariness;
		Promising the tried and faithful,
	He will all their wrongs redress.

	He whose pow'r, the raging lion,
		Can to docile meekness turn;
	And can change the fiercest fire flames,
		That His servants shall not burn.
	He who hears our earnest pleading
		Father let they will be done;
	And whose voice, unto His people,
		Ever answers, "Be ye one!"


Shall we shrink, with such a General?
	Shall we step aside or pause?
Shall we dare withhold our efforts,
	In our glorious saving cause?
No! forever! onward, upward
	No retreat no compromise!

Death, to-day, may be our portion—
	LIFF ETERNAL is the prize!
Forward ever in the highway,
	Which the saints before us trod;
Cling together, oh ye people
	Of the GREAT ETERNAL GOD! 
	LULA.
April 8th, 1886.


[Column 1]CORRESPONDENCE.

			ZENOS, Sep. 8, 1886.

MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	DEAR FRIEND:—I have been thinking to-
day how much I would enjoy a quiet half hour
with you in the office, and a good talk upon
events that have transpired since I bade fare-
well to home and friends for a sojourn amid
the waste places of Zion. Many thoughts and
imaginary scenes pass through my mind as I
go to and fro among the ruins that cover this
land. I feel like I was walking on sacred
ground, fancying, sometimes, that the former
inhabitants were watching us with jealous
eyes. 
	I am pleased to state that the excessive heat,
which has lasted much longer than usual this
season, has cooled down considerably: the
evenings are delightful, and its wilted inhabi-
tants begin to look up and smile again. The
EXPONENT comes regularly, is a welcome
friend, and would be missed very much should
it fail to appear.
	I learn with regret the list for subscribers I
represented so long is growing less. I wonder
if the reason is hard times, or if they are grow-
ing careless in the cause of truth, and blind
to their own best interests? surely the women
of Zion should feel anxious for the success of
the one woman's paper in existence,and spread
it abroad, that the world may hear what we
have to say for ourselves; may learn, if we are
in bondage; we chose the bonds, and do not
ask them to break them for us. The sisters
have thousands of relations and friends in the
world where they might send our paper on
missions of love. It might among many reach
some honest hearts, and, like bread cast upon
the waters, return after many days, bringing
ample reward for the labor and cost of send-
ing. I find it hard to express on paper the
thoughts that come into my head. I think of
Zion now passing through the fire that is to
cleanse and purify her, making her ready for
the coming of her King, and wonder who will
stand, or who will fall. I think of those who
are now bearing the heat of the battle where
the blows strike home, sending our noblest and
best to prison cells, or fugitives from their own
dearly bought homes, leaving aching hearts
and darkened hearthstones, where love and
joy were wont to dwell. I feel that Zion
should be humble, low in the dust, praying for
her deliverance, but, alas, too many are blind
in their mad thirst after the pleasures and
follies of the world and I fear they will awake
too late, that their feasting will be turned to
famine, and their mirth to sorrow.
	I do not think that I can tell you anything
new about the country, as no doubt you have

[Column 2]
seen sisters recently from here, and know pretty
well the condition of affairs. One thing I
will say, as it is in the line of my calling at
present. There are hosts of bright, happy
children here as elsewhere in the settlements
of the Saints, and when I look upon them, I
marvel not that Satan and his minions fear
and tremble that they strive to stay their com-
ing, and plant so many snares for unwary
feet to draw them into by and forbidden paths.
May God protect and shield them from his
power until the hour of Christ's victory cbmes.
		Sincerely your friend,
				S. E. RUSSELL.


GOOD NURSES.

	This subject should at once attract the at-
tention of every woman. How often we hear
the question asked, "Where can I find a good
nurse?" Nature has especially endowed women
for the occupation; and all, even men so peculi-
larly sensitive and inconsistent on this point,
will concede the fact that its labors are within
woman's sphere; at the same time woman is
most often in situations to realize the necessity
for and appreciation of a competent nurse. It 
is a matter of surprise that communities are
so indifferent regarding this very important
art and will possibly submit to such a display
of ignorance as is usually met with in the sick
room. As a rule people are exceedingly par-
ticular about the physician they employ, are
careful to assure themselves of his or her
thorough education always showing preference
for one of skillful repute but fail to take the
same precaution regarding a nurse generally
through ignorance or mistaken ideas of econo-
my accepting those who will work for the least
wages, who, realizing that they are incompetent
and having incurred no expenses in educating
themselves for the business they wish to follow,
cannot demand good wages.
	Considering the constant demand for nurses
it would seem as wise policy for physicians, when
establishing themselves in a community, to at
once begin training a corps of nurses whom
they could feel justfied in recommending to
their patients thus removing much cause for suf-
fering and relieveing themselves of much blame
which rightfully belongs to the nurse. We
think the two provisions are inseparable when
success is desired.
	In the infancy and youth of our derritory
when people struggled hard for subsistence
among the hardships endured by women, was
hearing the trials and pains of maternity un-
aided by either competent doctor or nurse, and
many, in consequence, have lost their lives or
dragged through weary months or years mar-
tyrs to unnecessary physical suffering. Years
ago President Brigham Young with character-
istic high regard for and liberality to woman
appreciating her capabilities and needs strongly
urged the education of women as physicians
and it was with his advice and encouragment
that a number of ladies undertook the
study of medicine and became graduates of
medical colleges in the East, and have pursued
the practice of medicine in this territory ap-
parently with as great success as any of the 
opposite sex. With such efficient instructors,
willing to labor and disseminate their knowlege
attained through the untold energy, exertion
and sacrifice, for slight renumeration and with
hundreds of young and middle aged ladies
seeking employment, why will they not em-


brace the excellent advantages afforded in the
various classes organized for the special educa-
tion of women in obstetrics and nursing? and
become efficient reliable workers in an honor-
able and humane calling. In conversation with
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp who will shortly begin an- 
other class in obstetrics she assured me that
she had a list of names of women who being
out of employment have sought her recomen-
dation as nurses but some have had no educa-
tion or training in this responsible office in
justice to herself and those requiring assistance
she is obliged to withhold her signature and
aid. The occupation of a professional nurse is a
remunerative one and her services are always
in demand, but the reasons are clearly defined
to the reasonable mind why the kuewledge of
obstetries and nursing, especially the latter, is
essential to every wife and mother who is con-
tinually required to discharge these duties in
her family, and with what satisfaction and suc-
cess these labors of love might be performed
with the advantages and assurance that knowl-
edge gives. We would certainly encourage
every young lady to take a course as some are
doing in this branch of learning before she 
considers herself qualified to assume the re-
sponsibilities of a home and family whose
health,happiness and prosperity depends chiefly
upon the intelligence and qualifications of the 
Wife and Mother.
			OLIVE BRANCH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HENRIETTA'S BAPTISM.

	EMILY B. SPENCER.

	Henrietta said good by to her kind friends,
and traced her steps homeward.
	In a new light she saw everything and she
rejoiced in all that had been told her. She
expected her mother, brother,and sisters would
be glad to hear her wonderful tidings, that in
these last days God had again spoken, and His
authorized agents were again upon the earth,
but, alas! at the home she was met with pity
and contempt from those that were so dear.
They saw no beauty or truth in the doctrine
that had so delighted her.
	All of their ridicule and arguments were
unavailing to eradicate the good impressions
that she had received.
	She attended the meetings of the Latter-
day Saints and the Spirit of God enlightened
her soul, so that when a day was appointed for
baptism, she was at the river’s side, joy shining
in her face.
	It was a gray, cold December morning when
she stepped into the water, under the arch of
a bridge, and was baptised by an Elder of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
one who had authority to baptise in the name
of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost
and as he said amen, he plunged her beneath
the water, and she rose to a new life, a new
faith, a new hope, one with a despised sect,had
entered the "wicket gate" and could journey
on to the heavenly City to receive a crown for
a life time of devotion. The baptism was
 over and the little crowd dispersed to their
different homes. Evening came and Henrietta
went to  the confirmation meeting. The
sweet singing and heartfelt prayer were over,
and the Elders laying their hands upon her
had conferred upon her the gift of the Holy
Ghost. That evening was an evening ever to
be remembered. After she had returned home
her heart was so full of joy and thanksgiving
that she felt as if she must pour out her
thoughts in writing a letter to the Elders.
Very seldom had she desired to write, but now
with her mind lit up by the Spirit of the Lord
she sat at her little table, and wrote a letter of
praise and gladness, that she had been privi-
leged to hear and obey the Gospel.
	After her letter was written, she knelt and
prayed,and soon laid down and was fast asleep.


About midnight, she was awakened by a loud
rattling at her door accompanied by a feeling
of terror as if some invisible shape of evil was
approaching. Louder and louder was the
noise until it seemed as if it had reached the
bedside, and the horrid presence was by her.
Intuitively she knew it was the evil one, mad-
dened that she had been baptised,and benumb-
ing her with terror. Then came to her mind
to pray, and as she muttered the name of Jesus
the clanking ceased, the fearfulness left her,
and she felt that she was free from the dire
mysterious influence and that it had vanished.


[Column 1]
DECLINE OF POPULATION IN RU-
RAL MASSACHUSETTS—NO. 1.

	This decline is going on throughout New
England, in portions of New York State and
Ohio, and still other States of the Union. But
there are some advantages in confining our re-
search to a single one, and it is now most con-
venient for me to take as an example that in
which I am residing. Further, Massachusetts 
is regarded as a kind of index State, and so is
looked at to determine somewhat how the ocean
tides of civilization are flowing.
	I have stated that to be a fect which I am
prepared to undertake to prove.
	The fact itself is a startling one, as I shall
try to show in its proper place. 
1. There is a general impression that the
country is being depopulated,while the villages
and the cities are growing larger.
	2. The drift of remark and conversation is
to this effect, whether you listen to the body of
the people or to the observations of travelers,
politicians, philosophers, or otherwise. Anon
you hear the lines;

	"Ill fares the land, to hast'ning ills a prey,
	Where wealth accumulates and men decay;
	Princes and lords may flourish or may fade;
	A breath can make them, as a breath has made:
	But a bold peasantry, their country's pride,
	When once destroyed can never be supplied."

	3. Men accustomed to hold offices in coun-
try towns, in particular, will state how much
larger the vote used to be, and they, or the
school board, will inform one how many dis-
tricts have been dropped and school-houses
closed. Such information is imparted in a way
to indicate that it is painful to the possessor,
and that it will have a melancholy effect upon
the listener. It is understood to be depressing,
instead of animating; a matter of deep regret,
rather than of congratulation.
	4. You may visit one of the older inhabi-
tants, one, perhaps, born in town, and whose
ancestors for several generations lie buried
there, get into conversation with him about
the past and the present of that township, and
he will grow serious, relate how many more
families were used to be in his own and other
neighborhoods circumjacent, how larger the
average household, how much stronger,
healthier and united people thereabouts once
were, he might add, handsomer. He speaks in
the sombre style of an Indian sage standing
on an eminence and describing to his compan-
ion[-] the hills, the vales, the plains which once
belonged to his tribe. 	
	5. Whether the pastor, the sportsman, the
physician, or anyone else is walking or driving
about in one of these towns, he is constantly
meeting, or at little distances, clumps, rows or
circlets of trees that once manifestly sur-
rounded a house, walls and pieces of fence that
quietly bear the same tender testimony, entire
excavations of partly-filled portions of a wall
still standing; in respect to all of which the
exclamation is made, "Another old cellar-
hole!"
	The observer, if at all clairvoyant in the
midst of such scenes, has impressions of van-
ished life, of a departed [--]ilvity, of space de-
serted, now only haunted, and he can [---] un-

[Column 2]
gainly stretches, unsightly distances between
houses, young forest trees growing on old fur-
rows, closed roads and others yet barely open,
almost grown over, which say to him, "I once
was abundantly traveled."
	He will find places where there is energy
and thrift, an attempt to farm according to the
latest ideas; he will also find others, and too
many, where they plow only portions of the
field, skim over a little here and there, are let-
ting buildings, fences and everything else run
down. If he accosts one of these peasants the
response may reveal a nationality not the
primitive New England stock.	
	6. You are distinctly told of a false fear of 
years ago in regard to a supply of wood. It
was thought that the time would come, and
not far distant, when not enough wood would
grow for fuel. At that time forests were felled
to make new fields. Now, although the primi-
tive woods are gone, the tall trees leveled, a
kind of scrubby growth is spreading wider and
wider, and with the increased use of coal the
price of wood is kept down. At the present
time, when woodland is cut over, it is left to
 grow up again. There is tillage land enough
for the diminished and diminishing popula-
tion.
	7. A middle-aged man remembers when,in his
town, at the centre, perchance, there was, for
those days, a large and respectable hotel. The
landlord could afford to provide amply for
man and beast for election days, for weddings,
for sojourners, for parties, and the coming of
the thundering stage. Teachers were examined
there, caucuses held, and sometimes the ordain-
ing council met at that place. There was
plenty of help in and about the buildings, and
all so respectful and ready. The public house
has departed, or dwindled, in many cases, into
a little, miserable rum-selling stand. For the
four and six horses suffices to carry the mail
bags and passenger, should there be one.
	8. A more strangely dreary object can
scarcely lie against the horizon, or confront
your immediate presence,than an unfrequented
church. Yonder is one, and beyond the next
hill is another. They used to have a noble at-
tendance. Preachers, famous in their regions 
at least, officiated in the high pulpits and at
the thronged tables. One or another has given
out and left the field to a rival, not from any
change in conviction, but because the means
became so limited and the attendance so
wretchedly meagre. My best buggy is shining
under a varnish put on in a building which
was once a church. In those very walls,
twenty-five years agone, I used to speak occa-
sionally to a full congregation.
	If I had time to ponder, I could find other
general considerations all pointing their bony
fingers in one direction—that of the caption of
my article. The decline has taken place and
is still going on, as I will bring statistics to at-
test in my next number. 
	The reader will remember that our special
field of view is the famous Bay State. You
would hardly expect to find a better govern-
ment, more gracious institutions, and taken to-
gether, a higher civilization. Our hills break
the cyclones in their formation. We never
have a drouth, such as some countries experi-
ence. Markets are near at hand. The soil is
broken, often rocky; yet back from ocean
sands, never barren. It will produce every
crop the latitude will allow of; is quickly re-
vived, and can not be entirely run out. It
immediately responds to every sort of good
dressing,holds it well, bears the best of grasses,
and has the sweetest of pastures. A farm can
be bought in a good situation for some two
thousand dollars, which will keep ten cows and
the usual proportion of other stock. Why
should such lands be forsaken? We will try
to answer that in the third and closing num-
ber.
					REV. L. HOL[-]ES.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TEARS. 

	[SELECTED.

All night have I lain in my tears,
	Like a child—
	A weary child—
Bereft of parents and friends and home:
No one to succor; helpless, alone;
No ear to listen and catch my cry—
Alone in my tears like a child I lie. 

I have lain in my tears, like a child,  
	All night—
	A dismal night:
No star shines forth to lighten the gloom;
All nature lies hushed as the silent tomb;
Darkness hangs over the earth like a pall;
Fast and bitter my hot tears fall.

All night, like a child, have I lain
	In my tears,
	O, ye tears!
That fall like the rain on the sun-parched earth,
Saving the fruits from the withering dearth,
Soothing the wounds of a breaking heart;
Lifting and breaking the clouds apart:
And in their glistening drops doth shine
The rainbow promise, "God's love divine." 
	CECIL.
Plainwell, Mich.


A NEW FASHIONED GIRL.

She'd great and varied knowledge, picked up at
	   a female college, of quadratics, hydrostatics,
	   and pneumatics very vast;
She was stuffed with erudition, as you stuff a
	   leather cushion, all the elogies of the col-
	   leges, and the knowledge of the past.

She had studied the old lexicons of Peruvians and
	   Mexicans, their theology, anthropology, and
	   geology, o'er and o'er.
She knew all the forms and features of the pre-
	   historic creatures—ichthyosaurus, plesiosau-
	   rus, megalosaurus, and many more.

She’d describe the ancient Tuscans, and the
	   Basques and the Etruscans, the griddles
	   and their kettles, and their victuals that they
	   gnawed;
She’d discuss the learned charmer, the theology
	   of Brahma, and the scandals of the Van-
	   dals, and the sandals that they trod.

She knew all the mighty giants, and the master
	   minds of science, all the learning that was
	   turning in the burning mind of man;
But she couldn’t prepare a dinner for a gaunt
	   and hungry sinner, or get up a decent sup-
	   per for her poor, voracious papa, for she
	   never was constructed on the old domestic
	   plan
							Hearth and Hall.


[Column 1]
ESSAY ON UTAH.

WRITTEN FOR THE Y. L. M. I. A. BY ONE OF
THE MEMBERS.
	
	Undoubtedly, to day there is no other place,
be it state, territory or country, under the
broad canopy of heaven,  which is so univers-
ally observed, as the subject of this sketch.
Utah is talked about, written of and lectured
upon, until, really, there remains but few, if
any, new ideas concerning her, to be formed or
expressed. So rigorously is this subject handled,
both by friends and enemies, especially the
latter, in all classes of society, that we scarcely
find time to measure one point, or sound the
force of one argument in relation to it, before
something else is thrust upon us for considera-
tion.
	And yet, as young men and women belong-
ing rightfully to Utah, we should give thought
to her and her affairs; deep studious thought;

[Column 2]
not allowing ourselves to become wearied even
by misrepresentations and odiums cast upon a
theme at once so popular yet so little under-
stood by a vast majority of the whole world.
	Many of us, who now help to form the grow-
ing strength and increasing glory of Utah,
may proudly claim her as our birth place.
Others who still belong to our young peoples'
association, have vivid  recollections of the
long tedious journey across the plains with ox
teams. Oh! that toilsome journey!  How many
of our fathers, weary and foot-sore, performed
the entire expedition on foot!  How many of
our mothers walked until they fainted in their
tracks, before they would add their scanty
weight to the loads drawn by the already over-
worked teams.  But they got through at last,
those who survived, and "found the place pre-
pared for them, far away in the west." How
good it seemed to find a resting place!  How
the fathers and mothers praised God for His
goodness; how their little ones sported and
laughed.  How thankful thousands were for
the first new clothes they obtained after set-
tling in Utah.  In many instances even the
little children helped in the production of
those clothes, by pulling the wool off the dead
sheep, or gathering it off the sage brush where
it had been left by sheep passing along to nib-
ble the grass.
	How happy many a Utah girl and boy felt
in those times if provided with a pair of buck-
skin moccasins to cover the little chapped and
bruised feet with on Sundays.  And oh! how
good the cakes sweetened with beet or water-
melon molasses tasted.  No dainties appear
on our tables now that we have half the relish
for.
	These are things of the past; but they must
be thought of and considered in order to pro-
perly contrast the Utah of to-day with the
Utah of twenty and thirty years ago.
	Under the blessings of an all wise and all
merciful Father, and the ceaseless toil and
labors of an industrious and ambitious people.
Utah has taken gigantic strides in the paths of
enterprise and development.  Her boys and
girls, from six to fifteen years, attend school
now, instead of herding sheep and cows.  And
here, let it be noted, that to educate the chil-
dren in the right way, in all that is useful and
ennobling to the human character, has ever
been one of the fundamental principles upon
which the founders of Utah have operated.
Everywhere in the Territories, where enough
inhabitants have settled to form a ward or
branch almost the first thing thought of and
looked after has been the establishment of
a school for the children.  And where fami-
lies have resided too far from settlements to
admit the children attending school, books and
slates have been their companions at home,
and the parents themselves have been the
tutors.  Doubtless, hundreds of our young
men and women can recall with pleasure the
times when they took their spelling-books and
readers with them and learned their lessons
while they followed the sheep.  I know some
who can.
	Returning to Utah of to-day, we find that
her day and Sabbath schools and also her
literature compare favorably with any State
or Territory of equal age, and with some that
are much older.  In many other respects she
also ranks high.  Having means provided by
which the poor are relieved without the neces-
sity of begging.  The erection of handsome
and substantial buildings for public benefit,
etc., etc.
	Judging from the past and the present, we
may safely conclude, that if the youth among
us are as faithful to the trusts reposed in them,
as energetic and determined as their parents
have been, and they should be much more so,
Utah, in the near future, will shine forth,
"beautiful and glorious."


SLANDEROUS REPORTS.

	The Latter-day Saints have ever been the
victims of slander.  From the time of their
existence, as a people, until the present, they
have been made to feel this weapon of cow-
ards.  Very frequently you find whole neigh-
borhoods who believe that our elders who are
sent out to preach the Gospel to them, go out
as spies; any one believing such reports to be
true concerning the Latter-day Saints, mani-
fests a spirit of intense bitterness against them.
And many would consider it doing God’s
justice, to adopt any measure, however unfair
it might be, to suppress “Mormonism.”  When
the Saints were citizens of Ohio, Misouri and
Illinois, the red-right hand of bloody persecu-
tion did all it could to blot them out of exist-
ence.
	They were persecuted and driven from their
comfortable homes, out into the wilderness,
only to meet with the continuance of these
vile reports.  As a consequence of these false
impressions existing, respecting the the Lat-
ter-day Saints, many people are unwilling to
listen to the instructions of our elders, whom
we send to preach the Gospel in their midst.
So bitter are the feelings of men in some
neighbor-hoods,  that  they band together
to drive out traveling elders from their vicinity;
and in some instances, seek their lives.  Slan-
der, has, undoubtedly, caused this state of
affairs.  They who have come into our midst
through self-interest, and a love of popular
applause, have misrepresented us and our in-
stitutions to the world, vilified our characters,
and then have stirred up this bitter feeling
towards us, and fanned the flame of hatred,
until they are provoked to deeds of violence,
because of the slanderous reports in circulation.
We don’t know  how  long this people, who
have been the victims of slander will suffer
from such cruel prejudice; nor do we know
how many will reject the Gospel, because of
these false reports,but of one fact we may be as-
sured—that as the sun rises above the moun-
tains and dispels the mists that have gathered
during the night, so truth will rise and dispel
the sodden clouds of “slander.”
						  HYACINTH.	
   Alpine City, Utah Co., Sept. 2nd.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The circulation of the Boston Sunday Globe
for August averaged 105,000, and that of the
Daily Globe 99,000.

	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar has returned from
her European trip. She continues her inter-
esting letters in the Inter-Ocean, the last one
being a vivid description of “Picturesque
Ireland.” 

	Oliver Wendell Holmes, who has received no
end of courtesy and good-will abroad,has come
home safe and sound, having kept his seventy-
seventh birthday on shipboard. Thomas
Hughes and Clara Louise Kellogg were on the
same steamer.

	Dr. Sarah Frissell, a graduate of Mount
Holyoke Female Seminary,took the four years'
course at Ann Arbor Medical School,receiving
the regular degree of M. D., after three years
study, and a diploma for a special course in
anatomy and diagnosis of disease.  She had,
for six months, charge of a hospital for women
and children.  She practised as a physcian for
seven years in Pittsfield, where she had good
success and many patients, who were very
sorry to have her leave.  She went to Spring-
field two years since, where she is winning
her way by her medical skill and thorough
conscientious work. She was, ad interim, the
physcian for her alma mater, after the death
of the regular resident physician before an-
other could be found.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

     Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
     Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of noparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
     EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
     Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	SEPTEMBER 15, 1886.


[Column 1]
	THE TIMES ARE SIGNIFICANT.

	The great earthquake felt in the east, recently,
and which made such terrible destruction of life
and property in Charleston, has given a warning
alarm to many, and caused much reflection in the
minds of sober thinking people.  That the most
severe shock should have been felt, and the
greatest desolation made in the very place where
the late War of the Rebelion first broke out,
seems a singular coincidence indeed.  The terror
inspired by this catastrophe among the people,
taken as a whole, seems to have made a deeper im-
pression upon them than any event of modern
times, at least in this country, and will, no doubt,
result in awakening many to inquiring and search-
ing after truth and righteousness; and though the
majority will attribute this awful calamity to some
freak of nature, and ignore nature’s God in the
matter, the Latter-day Saints are not ignorant of
the meaning of all these signs and wonders and
manifestations of God’s displeasure and His power.
Great events are transpiring, and great changes
are at the very doors of the nations, whether the
people heed these serious and timely warnings or
not; nevertheless the fact remains, that the prophe-
cies uttered by the servants of God in ancient and
modern times, and as recorded in the Bible, the
Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants
are being fulfilled.
	The people may shut their eyes and close their
ears to the warnings, but in the day of His power
“the Lord shall have them in derision.”  The
Prophet Jeremiah says, speaking of the Latter
days:
	“Behold, a whirlwind of the Lord has gone
forth in fury, even a grievous whirlwind; it shall
fall grievously upon the head of the wicked.” 
	“The anger of the Lord shall not return until
He have executed, and till He have performed the
thoughts of His heart; in the latter days ye shall
consider it perfectly.”
	Is it not easy to comprehend that the whirlwinds
have come? and in several of the States the peo-
ple have already prepared places of refuge, such
as cellars and dugouts, so that when these terrific
winds arise they may take shelter in them, and
perchance escape the fury of the elements.
Isaiah the prophet said:
	“And they shall go into the holes of the rocks,
and into the caves of the earth, for fear of the
Lord, and for the glory of His majesty, when He
ariseth to shake terribly the earth.”
	Already these words are being fulfilled, and
strong men fear and tremble and quail before the
storm, and know not what to do or where to go for
safety and protection.  Theories of all kinds are
being published and circulated to account for these
wars among the elements of nature, and to allay
the superstitions of the ignorant, as the world
terms those who acknowledge that the day of God’s
judgments has come.
	Peter, the apostle, said:  “Judgment must be-
gin at the house of God, and if it first begins at
us, what shall the end be of them that obey not the
Gospel of God?”

[Column 2]
	It is not, therefore, expected that the Latter-day
Saints, or that Zion will escape, but that the Saints
need to be on the watchtower constantly, that they
may not be oyercome, or overtaken unawares, for
“no one knoweth the day nor the hour."  St. Luke
in his Gospel says: “And there shall be signs in
the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and
upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity,
the sea and the waves roaring;
	“Men's hearts are failing them for fear, and for
looking after those things which are coming on the
earth, for the powers of heaven shall be shaken.”
	Those who make a life study of the sciences
would fain make men believe that there is no oc-
casion for alarm, that all will go on without serious
interruption, that there is no programme marked,
out by an Almighty hand; but the Saints know
better, and the Elders and messengers have been
sent forth from time to time to warn the people
and to entreat them to repent of their sins and
hearken unto the Lord.  A lew here and there
have obeyed this warning voice, have even re-
joiced that they were permitted to hear the glad
tidings of salvation brought to them, and have
gathered to Zion to be further instructed in the
ways of the Lord, that they might make prepara-
tion for the day of His coming.
	Not only do the prophecies of the Scripture
point to the events now transpiring, but also the
Book of Mormon and the prophecies of Joseph
Smith recorded in the book of Doctrine and
Covenants, as contained in the revelations of God
to him.  In a revelation given December 27th,
1832,at Kirtland,Ohio,we find corroborative testi-
mony to that of Isaiah and other prophets of the
olden times:
	“And alter your testimony cometh wrath and
indignation upon the people.”
	“For after your testimony cometh the testimony
of earthquakes, that shall cause groanings in the
midst of her, and men shall fall upon the ground
and shall not be able to stand.”
	“And also cometh the testimony of the voice
of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and
the voice of tempests, and the waves of the sea
heaving themselves beyond their bounds.”
	Can any one of sane mind say these things are
not being fulfilled?  Surely not!
	Men’s hearts are failing them for fear, and the
running to and fro in the earth is another signifi-
cant fact in connection with many others.  There
is abundance of proof that these things are true,
and those who hearken and obey the voice of the
Lord to His people, and sanctify and purify their
own hearts and lives, sincerely repenting of evil
and of folly, and humbling themselves, may, by
constant devotion and the help of the Holy Spirit,
endure these terrible things that are daily oc-
curring.  But not in their own strength can any
stand, only by relying upon God and obeying His
commandments given through His servants, who
are sat as Shepherds and as Watchmen to take
care of His flock.  Those who study in humility
and prayer the Bible and other books containing
the word of the Lord to His people will find conso-
lation, strength and encouragement for the per-
formance of duties and obligations, and help to
fulfill those of a temporal as well as a spiritual na-
ture, for we have practical work to do, and the
kingdom of God cannot be established upon the
earth without it.  Yet there is no work of any kind
that is not better done when one is in the posses-
sion of the Spirit of God, and in order to keep
that good Spirit, one’s life and works must corres-
pond.  Seek diligently to keep in the strait and
narrow way, and listen for the still small voice
within, while bowing in obedience to the authority
God has set in His Church to preside.  We are
told that, “Obedience is better than sacrifice,”
and the Saints have proved it again and again.
The Lord will take care of his people who are
striving to walk in his paths and will “yet make
 he wrath of man to praise Him,” even as he has

[Column 3]
said, for his words cannot fail of fulfillment.  And
O, how much there is to do, to build up Zion that
she may be established and become glorious;sure-
ly “the harvest is ready but the laborers are few,”
and many seek their own pleasure and aggrandize-
ment.  Evil influences are abroad, and they are
far more dangerous than disease, and not so ap-
parent, they strive to get possession of the body
and thus destroy the soul; and against tempta-
tions and allurements of the adversary the Saints
should watch continually as well as pray and
avoid the insinuations and promptings of the
wicked one, who is ever on the alert to decoy the
unwary, the careless and the indifferent.
	The hand of the Lord is stretched out in judg-
ment, yet will He remember his own in mercy.
He has said "if the righteous barely escape,"
which shows plainly that they must live near to
Him.  Blessed indeed are they who do his bid-
ding and whom, when He cometh,shall have their
lamps trimmed and burning.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE death notice of Sister Eliza Lyman, pub-
lished in our issue of September 1st, was more to
put her death on record in the EXPONENT, where
it should have been published at the proper time.

	IMPROVED BLANKS for the Young Ladies
Associations are now ready and for sale at the
Deseret News Office in this City.  It is to be hoped
the Associations will obtain these new blanks for
current reports and thus make all reports uniform.

	In looking over some old copy, we came across
the re-organization of the Relief Society in Draper
last year.  It is late to publish it, but it should
certainly be on record in the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT.

	THE Stake Secretaries of the Primary Associa-
tions in the several Stakes in Zion will please for-
ward reports to this office, WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
at the earliest date possible, in order that a com-
plete report may be prepared for the October Con-
ference.

	SISTERS ELLEN C. CLAWSON and Lydia Ann 
Wells visited Granger Ward, and attended two
meetings of the Primary Association at that place,
on Tuesday, Sep. 7, and enjoyed the day very
much.  Further particulars of the meetings will
be furnished hereafter.

	THE closing exercises of Dr. Maggie C. Shipp's
class in obstetrics took place last Monday.  The
graduates were all of this city—Miss Mary
Schwartz, Mrs. Sarah White and Mrs. Mary Ed-
wards.  These ladies passed most creditable and
thorough examinations, which were conducted by
Drs. Anderson, H. J. Richards, Bower and Harri-
son.  Through the thoughtful kindness of Miss
Schwartz Dr. Shipp and her class were invited to
the Gardo House, where a most interesting and
enjoyable time was spent, in feasting the mind and
body.  At the close of the day the ladies separated,
each with thankful hearts for their success, in
their studies, and an earnest prayer for their future
usefulness.  Dr. Shipp and her class wish to ex-
press their gratitude to the physicians, who have
so kindly assisted, by delivering such useful and
well selected lectures, The next class will com-
mence on Monday, Oct. 1st, 1886.

	OUR [-]eaders will very likely have noticed that
for some time past there have been no contribu-
tions from the pen of our gifted sister, Hannah T.
King, and possibly they have wondered why she
has not written.  For years she has been a regular
contributor, scarcely a number of the paper hav-
ing been issued without one or more of her articles
appearing but her health has failed, and she is no
longer able to write, much as she would like to do
so.  She has suffered very great pain, and is now
upon a bed of affliction.  She delighted in writing


—it was with her an inspiration and a pleasure.
Many are the enconiums of praise given her by 
those who enjoyed and appreciated her articles. 
Perhaps when the cooler weather comes she may
recruit and become known again through her
writings. She has had great faith exercised for
her through the administration of the Elders, and
many precious promises have been given, that
have buoyed her up and helped her, and Sister
King is perfectly passive, and reconciled to the 
will of the Lord to go or to stay, as seemeth His
will. It was our duty, no doubt, to have men-
tioned Sister King's illness in the EXPONENT be-
fore, but we hoped she would soon recover and 
take her accustomed place in the columns of our 
little paper. We are greatly indebted to her for
 many beautiful thoughts, eloquently expressed,
and her memory will live in the hearts of thou-
sands who never knew her personally, because of 
her valuable contributions to home literature.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REBA BEEBE PRATT.

	DIED, at her residence in Farmer’s Ward,
Wednesday morning, September 1st. 1886, Sister
Reba B. Pratt, beloved wife of Elder Alma Pratt-
Sister Pratt’s illness was of a very trying and pain-
ful nature, and her sufferings, a greater part of
the time during the last two years, had been most
intense and agonizing. To those around her, and.
her friends who visited her from time to time, she
was a marvel of patience and sweet resignation.
No complaints or murmurs were ever heard from
her lips, and when momentarily free from pain she
was bright and cheerful. She had an angelic
spirit, and her faith in the principles of divine
truth was ever strong and fervent. Her sick room
might well be called “a chamber of peace, for
such it seemed to me whenever I visited her. Sis-
ter Pratt was in herself a beautiful character, and
possessed of a gifted and refined nature.
	Through the entreaties of her most intimate
friends she was persuaded, during the period of
her illness, to consent to the publication of her
fragmentary writings. The book was issued about
ten days previous to her demise. Some of the
pieces were written while she was suffering acute
pain, and as she has always been a very busy and
industrious person, has not had leisure to write
and revise and cultivate as much as some others,
but wrote as she felt impressed from time to time.
The title she chose for her book is certainly a
most appropriate one: “The Sheaf of a Gleaner.”
A sketch of the author’s life was written by Sister
Sarah' Jane Cannon, and published with the poems.
This biography gives interesting facts, and dates,
etc., a valuable addition to the work. We must
congratulate Sister Cannon on her success in pre-
paring this introduction to the verses, as it gives
the reader a greater interest in the poems.
	Such lives as that of Sister Pratt are worthy of
record, and we shall be glad to republish the
sketch from the little book at some future time,
if permitted. A poem entitled, “When Will The
Messenger Come,” expresses her real feelings in
regard to death in a most pathetic and touching
style. The last verse is:

"When through the dark waters he bears me away,
	A boon to my sould it would be
If that dream unbroken—like some magic spell—
	Could keep death's shadow from me;
Oh, blessed dream! could the awakening come 
	With my father and mother, safe at home.”

By that dream she means a dream of childhood,
in her sleep, to which she alludes in the preceding
verse.
	Sister Pratt was born April 1st, 1856, in Polk
City, Iowa. Her parents were Latter-day Saints,
and she was early taught the principles of the
Gospel, to which she ever remained firm and
steadfast. She was baptized Dec. 4th, 1869, by
Elder Moroni L. Pratt. She was ambitious in


her desire for knowledge, and early qualified her-
self for a teacher, receiving a certificate to teach
at sixteen.  Afterwards she attended the Iowa
State Agricultural College for one year.  She ac-
quitted herself honorably in all the positions she
filled, whether practical or literary; and as a wife
and mother, she was devoted and self-sacrificing.
In Farmer’s Ward, where she has lived since her
marriage, January 10th, 1876, she has filled, at
different times, the offices of Primary Counselor
and President of both Primary and Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Associations.
   Sister Pratt’s life was replete with good deeds,
and she died in the full hope of a glorious resur-
rection beyond the grave.


[Column 1]
	TOPICS OF THE TIMES.

	BY THE EDITOR.

	Suicide, or self-murder is becoming an event of
startling frequency in our country. At no time
since the people came to these valleys has there
been so many suicides in proportion to the popu-
lation as of late. In fact, in early days, it was a
crime almost unknown to the people; and if a
self-murder occurred, it shocked the community
and excited deep and wide-spread comment. But
now there is scarcely a daily paper without an ac-
count of some person having attempted self-de-
struction. A mania for self killing appears to be
going through the country. No doubt the com-
mission of this act by one suggests the crime to
others. Weak-minded people, or those who have
a love for notoriety, brood over the killing of
which they have heard, until their minds become
morbid and partly insane upon the subject, and
in a moment of temptation they destroy them
selves.
	The frequency with which this crime is com-
mitted calls loudly upon those in authority in the
community to take some measures to check the
mania. It should receive immediate attention.
The seal of public condemnation should be put
upon suicide. Those who have an inclination of
this kind should be made to understand that in
killing themselves, they gain an infamous notori-
ety and bring upon themselves public dishonor
and the same condemnation that is attached to
murder of every kind.
	This crime is increasing rapidly in the United
States and other nations. It seems to be one of
the results of Satan’s increased influence over the
children of men. Having no tabernacle himself,
he would like to prompt every child of God to
destroy his body. When a human being becomes
possessed of the devil, the tabernacle is soon
wrecked; for neither he nor his companion spirits
know to what use to put a fleshly tabernacle ex-
cept to destroy it.
	Man did not create himself. He did not furnish
his spirit with a human dwelling place. It is
God who created, man, both body and Spirit. Man
has no right, therefore, to destroy that which he
had no agency in creating. They who do so are
guilty of murder, self-murder it is true; but they
are no more justified in killing themselves than
they are in killing others. What difference of
punishment there is for the two crimes, I do not
know; but it is clear that no one can destroy so
precious a gift as that of life without incurring a
severe penalty.
	By the people of medieval times the remains
of those who were guilty of this offense were
treated as the remains of other murderers. In
England, it was the practice to dig the grave
of the suicide in a place where four roads met.
The body was consigned to the hole, and a stake
was driven through it into the ground, and it was
then covered up. This was a barbarous method
of treating the lifeless remains of a human being;
but it clearly expresses the horror that was en-
tertained by the people of those days of this

[Column 2]
dreadful crime. It doubtless was designed to
be barbarous in order to impress the minds of the
people with the awful consequences of such an
 act, and to show the execration with which the
memories of suicides would be held by surviving
generations. To this day places of this kind,
where the bodies of suicides were buried are
known and pointed out by the common people.
The rememberance of the manner in which they
destroyed themselves, and their burial places, are
perpetuated from generation to generation, and
such spots are dreaded and shunned, especially in
the night.
	This custom of refusing Christian burial to self-
murderers prevails upon the continent of Europe.
The Catholic church in Europe rigidly excludes
murderers from burial in what is knowu as con-
secrated ground. This is the rule also where the
Greek church the Lutheran church and the church
of England have control. The mortal remains of
no suicide is permitted to be buried in ground
which has been consecrated as the last resting
place of those who lead proper lives. In this way
these churches show their condemnation of this
crime. I think the Latter-day Saints should do
no less. There is no people who are taught as we
are to place a high value upon life. We are
taught to look upon murder as a most frightful
crime. The sacredness and importance of human
life are impressed upon us by every revela-
tion which God has given concern-
ing man and his future destiny. The
Spirit of God impresses man to look with
abhorence upon the shedding of blood; and no
man, who is possessed of it, will take the life of
an animal, a fowl, a fish, or even an insect, un-
necessarily.
	In order to palliate the crime of self-murder
there is a disposition often shown to attribute the
act to insanity or aberration of mind. This is
especially so where the individual who destroys
himself, or herself has been respected, or where
they have respectable connections. In this way
it is thought the feelings of surviving relatives
will be saved. Doubtless there are many cases of
self-murder which are due to insanity; but that
this mania can be greatly controlled and checked,
experience has abundantly proven. At one time,
in the city of Paris, the mania for self-destruction
became almost an epidemic. The authorities, be-
ing alarmed at the increase of the crime, took the
subject into consideration, and, finally, decided to
expose the body of every suicide, stripped of
every vestige of clothing, to the gaze of all the
public, who chose to visit the morgue, or dead-
house. It seemed a brutal thing to do, but the
epidemic needed a strong remedy. It had the de-
sired effect. Suicides almost ceased. Even
abandoned women shrank from committing self-
murder in view of such a penalty—the exposure of
their persons after death to the vulgar gaze. This
experiment plainly proves that there can be
checks used to prevent this crime.
	I do not believe that many would commit cuicide
among us if it were known beforehand that such
indignities as I have referred to would be heaped
upon their lifeless remains. But if officers and
members of our Church meet to-gether, and some
of our Elders,with eloquent words,bear testimony
to the moral worth and the excellent traits of
character of the one who has violently taken his
or her own life, and then a cortege is formed to
accompany the body, with solemn pagantry, to the
cemetery, to consign it to a resting place amidst
the honored dead whose lives have been just and
pure, what is there to make the living think that
self-murder is a dreadful sin against God and
against humanity?
	Many perhaps will think this language harsh.
Sympathy for the families of those who commit
this deed would prompt words of comfort, because
of the dreadful trial to which they are subjected;
but this crime is becoming too common to admit


of this method of dealing with it. Justice to the
living—justice to the rising generation, demands
that it shall receive the condemnation which it de-
serves. It is murder, and men and women can
not be justified in staining their hands even with
their own blood or in taking their own lives.
	The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
should set its seal of reprobation and condemna-
tion upon this dreadful act. Instead of honoring
them who commit it by making their funerals dis-
tinguished, and treating them as though they were
dead heroes or heroines, and making no distinc-
tion between them and those who have worn
themselves out in the service of their God, let
them be buried in secret and without display, and
in ground far removed from the burial places of
those who have lived lives of honor and purity.—
Juvenile Instructor


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


“SEPTEMBER SEVENTH.” 
		
	For the last twelve years the above date has
been one of interest to the loving friends of Sister
Presendia L. Kimball.  It was celebrated at her
quiet little residence in the 16th Ward of this
city, this month, by fifty or more of the sisters in
Zion, as the seventy-sixth anniversary of Sister
Presendia’s birthday.  An excellent picnic repast
was partaken of, and greatly enjoyed, but the
more special feature of the gathering was a formal 
meeting, presided over by the lady herself, in
whose honor the guests were assembled.  Singing,
prayer and remarks by each sister present (there
were but two children and no gentlemen), inter-
spersed by the reading and reciting of three
original poems, two of which were composed for
the occasion, constituted the exercises, which
closed with a beautiful benediction by the hon-
ored and beloved hostess of the occasion.
	After the close of the meeting, Miss Cecelia
Sharp recited, “Whistling in Heaven,” which was
highly appreciated.  It is safe to say that thou-
sands in Zion, who are not permitted to extend
greetings personally, will gladly join us in wishing
Sister Presendia “many, many happy returns of
the day.” 
	LULA.


RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES.

	Missionary and Indian donations are included
in charitable disbursments.
	Wheat is computed by bushels.
	Nothing is to be reported except under one or
other of the printed heads.
	If Real Estate increases in value this increase
must be shown in the receipts for the six months.
	Presidents and secretaries are requested to at-
tach full name and address to reports.
	Reports are heareafter to be sent to Dr. Romania
B. Pratt.  Office over Godbe and Pitts drug store,
Salt Lake City, and they must be sent in promptly
by the 15th of September and if latter than the
20th of September they cannot be used.
	MRS. S. M. KIMBALL, Sec.
	ROMANIA B. PRATT, Asst. Sec.


[Column 1]
	R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	R. S. TEMPE, ARIZONA.

     Our ward and society are alive to the inter-
est of the Latter-day work, and we are trying
to live up to the requirements thereof.  There
is much sickness among the little children this
season.  Sister Delcena Babbitt lost her lovely
little daughter, one year old, on the 20th of
August.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I re-
main,
	J. D. WILSON.

[Column 2]
	DRAPER.

	Owing to the death of our late President,
Harriet R. Burnham, we have been disorgan-
ized, but were reorganized September 11th,
with Mrs. Catherine Smith, President;  Mrs.
Mary Smith and Mrs. Hannah Rawlins, Coun-
selors; Mrs. Annie Burnham, Secretary; Mrs.
Kate Sanders, Ass’t Secretary; Mrs. Annie
Howard, Treasurer.
	The sisters all seem to feel well in the Gos-
pel and to go ahead with renewed energy in
keeping the commandments of the Lord, and
in assisting the poor and needy; in trying to
comfort those who feel bowed down and need
comfort, and in doing all the good they can in
every way.  We have a small house now that
we can call our own, where we can meet to-
gether and hold our sewing meetings without
having to wait until we can get the ward house.
Our school is held in that building, so that it
has been rather inconvenient for us to have our
meetings there.  We always feel blessed in
meeting together, and in talking one to another
in regard to our duties as Latter-day Saints,
and we feel to ask the Lord to bless His peo-
ple with such a sufficiency of His holy Spirit
that they may be able to stand firm and stead-
fast to the truth of this Gospel, no matter
what we may be called to pass through, and
that we may always be found in the line of our
duty, is the prayer of,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
	ANNIE BURNHAM, Secretary.
	
	BANNOCK STAKE

	The quarterly conference of the Primary
Association of the Bannock Stake convened in
the Rexburg hall, Aug. 20th, 1886 at 1 p.m.,
Prest. Ella Hinckley presiding.  On the stand
were Prest. Ella Hinckley, Counselors Sarah
A. Barnes, and Sarah E. Ricks and Secretary
Lizzie Rigby also a majority of the Presidents
and officers of the different places, and a num-
ber of the brethren.
	After the opening exercises Prest. Ella
Hinckley addressed the children and officers
upon the duties in the associations, and the
care and training of the children, said they
should be taught to be polite, gentle, kind and
truthful, and they will grow up to be noble
men and women, ornaments in the Kingdom
of God and in society; should be taught while
young to attend to their prayers, and pay
their tithing; encouraged the children to go to
fast meetings for there they could get testi-
monies; gave many instructions that sank deep
into the hearts of the children and all present.
	The Primary Star, a manuscript paper, was
read by Sarah  E.  Ricks; Recitation by
Janie Holman, entitled, Primary address;
Trio by Mamie Conrad, Rhoda Donaldson and
Alice Graham; followed by a Recitation, by
Rhoda Donaldson,  entitled, the ten virgins.
Song by Lilly and Sarah Bell; Question from
the Bible, answered by Francis Rigby; Song
by Robert Archibald; Recitation by Wallace
Jacobs; Song by Ida Stoddard; Bible question
answered by Silas Hinckley; Recitation by
Rhoda Stoddard, after which the minutes of
the different associations were read.
	Sister Sarah A. Barnes gave the children
great credit for their good order and punctual-
ity;  spoke on the necessity of prayer, and
obedience to those placed over them; earnestly
advised the children to thiok what they are
living for, and have an aim in view, and that
aim should be to be saved and exalted in the
Kingdom of God, spoke of the blessings of the
Lord to us as a people, encouraged the chil-
dren to press forward; asked the Lord to bless
all with wisdom and knowledge that they 
might grow up to be noble men and women.
	Sister Sarah E. Ricks said she could feel the
Spirit of the Lord was present; hoped they
would retain the good instructions they had

[Column 3]
received; thought the Primaries were doing a
great work; realized it was a responsible posi-
tion to be placed over the children of Zion.
and those that are placed in position if they
do not fill their calling.  The Lord will hold
them responsible for the same; counseled the
children to use good language and be strictly
honest.
	Brother Troup said he never felt better in a
meeting; thought the Spirit of the Lord had
been with the children; felt to bless them in
their labors, encouraged the children to keep
the “word of wisdom,” and gave some good
advice.
	Brother Hinckley made some good and time-
ly remarks: counseled   the   children  to  be
neat and clean in their persons and make their
homes so also, and to obey those placed over
them, and remember the good instructions they
had received asked the Lord to bless all the
children.
	Prest. Ella Hinckley spoke of the fair that 
is soon to come off.  Conference adjourned for
three  months.  Singing,  "In  our   lovely
Deseret.”  Benediction by Brother Troup.
	ELLA HINCKLEY, Prest.
	LIZZIE RIGBY, Sec.
				
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Thinking the many readers of your valuable
paper would like to hear what we are doing in
the North Oneida Stake, we will send the
minutes of a quarterly conference of the Y.
M. and Y. L. M. I. A. held in Franklin, Aug.
15th.  There were present of the Stake Presi-
dency, Prest. M. F. Cowley, Coun. F. C. Par-
kinson,  Prest.  Esther  C. Parkinson,  Coun.
Ruth A. Hatch.
	After the usual opening exercises,the follow-
ing parts were rendered:  Select Reading by
Bro. Andrew Shumway, from Elder J. M.
Grant’s missionary experiences; followed by
Clara Goaslind who gave a synopsis of the life
of Queen Esther.  Bro. S. B. Cutler reported
the Franklin Association as doing well.  Luella
Parkinson recited, Whistling in Heaven.  An
Essay on obedience was read by Bro. David
Williams of Franklin.  The Y. L. Association
of Franklin and the  Y.  M.  Assocation.  of
Fairview were each reported as being in a 
flourishing condition.  Coun. Ruth A. Hatch
felt to encourage Mutual Improvement.  A
Recitation entitled, What I live for, was ren-
dered by Bro. John Rankin.  Brother Bing-
ham of Clifton, Stake Secretary of the Y. M.
M. I. A. spoke on the first principles of the
Gospel in a very able manner.  Bro. Davis
advised the young men to obtain an inherit-
ance in Zion.  Singing.  Benediction by F. C.
Parkinson.
	Afternoon session:  After opening exercises
remarks were made by members of different
associations who expressed a determination to
remain faithful to the glorious work in which
we are engaged, and desired to do all they
could to aid Mutual Improvement.  Acting
Bishop S. R. Parkinson, lately arrested at
Ogden on the usual charge, felt well in our
midst expressed an earnest desire to remain
faithful to all the principles of the Gospel; ad-
vised the people to be united and remember
there are some among us not able to help
themselves, and no one should suffer for the
necessaries of life.  Parents should be inter-
ested in their children; educate them that they
may become shining instruments in the King-
dom of God; asked an interest in the faith and
prayers of the brethren and sisters in his be-
half, that he might be true to his God and to
the covenants he had made, as he did not feel
to make a shipwreck  of what  he had done.
Prest. M. F. Cowley wished to impress upon
the minds of the young people the importance
of the great work in which we are engaged.
	We live in a day that the apostles looked
forward to, and desired to see.  Spoke in re-


gard to the pre-existence of man in the spirit
world and some were more noble than others 
and of those the Lord will make rulers. Man
has been appointed to come forth in the time 
and manner in which he does, and part of his 
mission is to occupy and till the land. All 
manner of precious metal shall be found in 
the land of Joseph on the Western Hemis-
phere, quoting references form the Bible to 
substantiate his remarks. The ancient prophets 
and apostles foresaw the downfall of the
ancient church and for seventeen centuries
there was no true church until the Lord spoke 
through the Prophet Joseph Smith who re-
ceived all the keys that had been held by holy  
men of old, our spirits have been reserved to 
come forth in the day when Latter-day Saints 
will see Zion redeemed. 
	Prest. Esther C. Parkinson spoke of the 
necessity of obeying the commandments of 
God and disapproved of the Saints following 
too much after the fashions of this world.
There are great responsibilities resting upon
every member in order to advance their asso-
ciations, advised all to be faithful. 
	After a few remarks by F. C. Parkinson 
conference was adjourned for three months.
Ever withing for the prosperity of Zion, we
reamin,
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
	ESTHER C. PARKINSON,
	RUTH A. HATCH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	LETTER OF APPRECIATION.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:

	Since my promise some months ago to chain
my thoughts and present them in readable
form to our dear little paper, for the considera-
tion of our sisters, I have formed many a reso-
lution to keep it, but in the midst of the daily
round of a mother’s busy life, where heart and
brain and physical powers alike have been
taxed to the utmost, it seems that I could do
no more than read the little messenger of in-
telligence, so filled with warm, bright and pure
womanly thoughts, like a sweet, comforting
friend  in the hour of distress. How many
times my heart has respouded to the sentiments
expressed, and I feel that the same echo will
come from hundreds of sister hearts, who,
while appreciating the efforts of the writers,
through timidity, withhold their own able
thoughts on the various questions of interest to
us as a people; and there is not the freedom of
response, which, if concentrated in the pages
of the EXPONENT, would so much better repre-
sent the faith, experience and intelligence of
the women of Israel. Some may call it "small
talk," but I doubt if such ever give expression
to greater wisdom, or purer and more lofty
sentiments. Still, I do not think the EXPON-
ENT as well sustained as it should be to do
credit to our sisterhood.	
	Who does not feel inspired with the grand
truths so majestically and beautifully portrayed
by our general favorite, Hannah T. King? or
who can read the sweet eloquence, entwined
with sound arguments, deep wisdom and
faith, born of experience, displayed in "Aunt
Em's" articles, without an increase of spiritual
strength and power to meet life's trials more
bravely? Then Helen Mar Whitney leads one
to think that they have never done anything
for the kingdom of God, and are unworthy to 
unlatch the shoes of those who have borne and
suffered so very much in helping to establish 
the work of God, the heroism which she por-
trays in the lives of our sisters is a beacon
light to those who know that trial is the 
promised portion of a true Saint. And the
"Biographies of noble women"—one is led to
emulate their virtues and reverence the charac-
ters thus glorified, and I often think how little

[Column 2]

of a life's history can be crowded into a few
pages—the unwritten history looms up before
me, and I am glad that angels are more accu-
rate historians than mortals. I wonder if any
one can read the poems of Emily Hill Wood-
mansee, Lula, Augusta Joyce Crocheron and
Lu Dalton without finding something to feed
their souls and touch the tender, hidden chords 
of the heart?
	By the way, why don't Lu Dalton favor us
oftener with her sound logic, impressive senti-
ments and entertaining sarcasms? I've missed
her very much of late years. Would love to 
re-peruse "Horoscope," but have searched in
vain for the forgotton number of the paper in
which it appeared. Will she forward a copy
and gratify an admirer? I've spent many a
happy hour with "Queerie" and "Mary" of
Grantsville, and why are they silent? A score
of nom de plumes and initials that have puzzled
and vexed me would also receive a hearty vote
of thanks could I be furnished with an intro-
duction to those whose identity is so carefully
guarded by them. I trust that we shall have
many spicy chats with "Homespun." I'm sure
she will find much on that far off isle to enter-
tain and instruct us, in her ever cheery, origin-
al way. Well, memory fails to recall just now
all whose pen pictures have given me pleasure.
I like the gems of thought interspersed here
and there; in them one gets a sermon at a 
glance. Hints on household management,
home government, the proper training of our
human twigs, cookery, hygienic notes and
pleasant paragraphs are all very acceptable in
a woman's companion.
	May the latent talent of Zion's daughters be
fostered and improved by cultivation and
demonstrated in the pages of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. May it indeed be a true repre-
sentative of the faith, culture, intelligence and 
heroism of the noblest and purest and most
self-sacrificing women in the world; not the
crushed, degraded, ignorant slaves as so falsely
accused by those who love to make a lie. The 
eyes of the world are upon us, watching our
course with a curious interest. There are
thousands of both sexes actively engaged in
misrepresenting us. Let us come boldly to the
front and voice our own sentiments and defend
those principles for which we are willing to
suffer the scorn and ridicule and abuse of the
whole world, being willing to deliver up the
care, protection and companionship of hus-
bands, fathers, brothers and sons, and all the
home comforts and worldly advantages by
which we are so bounteously surrounded, rather
than renounce our belief and practice in that
which God has commanded.
	This warfare for right and liberty of con-
science is not for ourselves alone; it is for our
posterity, and generations yet unborn, who
will revere our names for the independent 
stand we take against tyranny and oppression;
and God; in whose mercy and power alone we
trust, will see that right triumphs, and crown
with eternal life those who have laid all upon
the altar in its defense.
	May the day come when the EXPONENT
shall be as a ministering angel in the family of
every Latter-day Saint, enlarged, improved
and adorned in the habiliments of grace and
beauty.
	Your Friend,


H. H'S LONELY GRAVE.

     "The burial place was of her own choosing,
about 2000 feet above her home at Colorado
Springs, and 8,000 feet above the level of the
Atlantic Ocean, near where she was born.  She
died in California, where she selected as her
final resting place a plateau upon the top of
one of the Cheyenne mountians.  The chosen
place was one where she had spent for five
years or more much of her leisure time in ex-


ploring the mountains, in planning, sketching
and writing portions of her "Century of Dis-
honor,"  "Ramona," and many of her poems
and stories of home history and Indian life.
	"Many pilgrims from all parts of this country,
and from abroad also, visit this mountain
grave, of which none knew up to the hour of 
her death but her husband, a single friend, and
herself.  Why, almost every one asks, this
strange place of burial?  If the dead cannot
speak, the living cannot answer.  The moun-
tain site is where everything is grand and
beautiful in nature—where nothing can ever
disturb her love of sweet repose and rest—
where the passing clouds and the heavens are
nearer than the boundless sweep of plains be-
low—where, with a clearer sky, if possible,
than elsewhere, one can look through nature
up to nature's God."


WHERE THE BLAME RESTS.

	Young girls are not always to blame for
over-exertion in social pleasures.  Sometimes
their parents, who are ambitious to see them
make brilliant figures in the gay whirl, push
them on to excesses, or, at least, do not restrain
them.  The consequence is that young girls
frequently exhaust their freshness in a single
season.  Often they lose the color, the vivacity
and enthusiasm of youth, and become faded
and dispirited before they are out of their
teens.  Worse still, they inflict permanent in-
jury upon their health.  The exhaustion
of excitement and fatigue often causes
sleeplessness, and the ready dose of chloral or
bromide is relied upon to quiet the nerves.
Alternate sedatives and excitements wear out
the nerves rapidly, and prepare the victim for
neuralgia, headaches, dyspepsia, and many
other maladies of that kind.  Very often, when
a young girl is smitten with illness of this sort,
the family speak of it as a "visitation of provi-
dence," when they ought to speak of it as pa-
rental mismanagement.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Jenny Lind's daughter, who is spoken of as
possessing a marvelous voice, is coming to this 
country some time next winter.
	A new prose work by Miss Jean Ingelow
will be brought out by Messrs. Roberts Bros.
during the early autumn. It will be entitled
"John Jerome: His Thoughts and Ways."
	Miss M. E. Braddon, the novelist, is very 
methodical in her habits. She works only 
three days a week, but on those days she puts 
in full time, working from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
without intermission. 
	The biography of Queen Victoria, which
Barnett Smith has had in hand for some time,
will be published this month in one volume of
400 pages. It will contain several portraits.
	The Fowler & Wells Co., of New York, an-
nounce the publication of "The American Kin-
dergarten and Primary Teacher." As the
name implies, it is especially devoted to kin-
dergarten methods of teaching.
	The death is announced of Miss Anne Bow-
man, of Yorkshire, Eng., author of "The Boy
Foresters," "The Kangaroo Hunters." "The
Castaways," and other popular juvenile stories.
Miss Bowman was ninety-one years of age.
	Mrs. E. M. Ames ("Eleanir Kirk") is pre-
paring a volume called "Beecher as a Humor-
ist." Mrs. Ames was formerly a reporter of
Mr. Beecher's sermous, and has long been in-
timately acquainted with him.
	Miss Annie L. Dawes has written, and will 
soon publish in bertou a book on the Modern


Jew," the outgrowth of a paper on the subject
read by her before a literary society in Wash-
ington, two years ago.
	A romantic young lady in London obtained
recently the desire of her heart—she met
Tennyson, the poet Laureate, at dinner, and
the sympathetic hostess even arranged that
she should be placed next to him. One re-
mark, and one alone, did the poet address to
the gushing maiden at his side, and it was this:
"I like my mutton in wedges."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The Sabbath is a gift from heaven to the
laboring man.—Rev. D. King.
	Dress has a moral effect upon the conduct of
mankind.—Sir J. Barrington.
	He who has acquired his wealth unjustly
cannot enjoy it long.—Hesiod.
	The plainer the dress, with greater luster
does beauty appear.—Halifax.
	It has been sait that true religion will make
a man a more thorough gentleman than all
the courts in Europe; and it is true.  You may
see simple laboring men as thorough gentlemen
as any duke, simply because they have learned
to fear God; and fearing Him, to restrain them-
selves, which is the root and essence of all
good breeding.—Kingsley.
	"Love is strong as death; many waters can-
not quench love, neither can the floods drown
it."  And never is this master-principle more
gloriously triumphant than when it is exerted
to reclaim, restore, and purify the wandering
spirit; for wherever there is a heart to be won,
it will be won by kindness; and wherever there
is a spark of virtuous sensibility, it will be
cherished and enkindled by the breath of mild
consideration.—S. Jebb.


In Tarrytown, N. Y., last Tuesday, the
woman's ticket for school committee was
elected by a vote of 96 to 8.
	Miss Maud Banks, daugher of General
Banks, made her first appearance as an actress
on a New England stage, at Portsmouth, N.
H., on Monday evening.
	The mother of Gen. Phil Sheridan is still
hale and hearty, though eighty-seven years old,
and is living at Somerset, Ohio, where her
"boys" visit her every summer.
	James Russell Lowell has purchased a lot
in Ashfield, near the houses of Prof. Charles
Elliott Norton and George William Curtis,
and is expected to build on it soon.


Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending August 10, 1886, as follows:
	Hannah M. Bortree, Madison, Wis., Com-
bined Corset and Garment Supporter.
	Marie D. Bullock, Philadelphia, Penn.,
Game.
	Mary A. Henderson, Clinton, Mo., Coffee-
pot.
	Emma G. Nunn, Vassar, Mich., Adjustable
Handle for Dusters.
	Clara K. Waring, Middletown, N. Y., Port-
able Folding Wardrobe.


SPECIAL NOTICE.

	The secretaries of Y. L. M. I. A. of the
different stakes will please prepare their semi-
annual reports and forward them as quickly as


[Column 1]
possible, so that the Young Ladies' Associa-
tions may be creditably reported at the Oct.
confrence. They must not be later than Sep-
tember 20.
	LOUIE M. WELLS,
	Sec. Centeral Board Y. L. M. I. A.
			
[Column 2]
	ANNOUNCEMENT.
		
	The first term of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp's annual class in
Obstetrics willl begin Oct. 1st, 1886.
	Every effort has been made to place this school upon the
highest basis, and its educational facilities in this important
branch of medicine cannot be excelled.
	Liberal reduction in prices will be made to any branch
of Relief Society sending students.
	Those who desire to attend should commnnicate at once
with Dr. E. R. Shipp either verbally or by letter in order
to procure books and make necessary arrangements. For
particulars send for circulars. Office No. 18 Main St.
Salt Lake City. Telephone 383.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
			
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

[Drawing of hand pointed to text] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE Supt.

Special to the Ladies
			
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBROIDERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES.
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes:
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Salt meat should be put in cold water to cook; fresh meat
in boiling water, and if water is added, it should be boiling
also.
	To clean a bottle, put into it some kernels of corn, and
a tablespoonful of ashes; fill it half full of water, and
after a vigorous and thorough rinsing, the bottle will be
found as good as new.
	Grape Jam.—Take the common wild grapes and boil
them until soft;  pass the pulp through a seive, and take
one pound to a pound of sugar.  Boil the jam twenty
minutes, stirring it frequently.
	The Scientific American, says that if a bottle of the oil
of pennyroyal is left uncorked in a room at night, not a
misquito or any blood sucker will be there in the morning.
Mix potash with powdered meal and rats will depart.   If
a rat or mouse gets into your pantry, stuff in its holes a
rag saturated with a solution of cayenne pepper, and no
rat or mouse will touch the rag for the purpose of opening
a communication with the depot of supplies.
	To Make Vinegar.—Put apple parings into a stone jar,
cover them with cold soft water, and let them stand in
a warm place until fermented, having covered the top with
a clean cloth, and a newspaper, tied down to keep out in-
sects and dust.  Stir the peelings or turn the jars as often
as convenient for you to do so.  Take out and drain the
liquid through a colander, and put it into a jug with
pieces of white letter paper, or brown wrapping paper will
do, to make mother.  A little horse raddish will improve
it.  Also half a cupful of molasses to four quarts will
make nicer vinegar.

	Wash and rub the hair well in buttermilk thoroughly
rinse in clear water, and it will leave the hair soft and
glossy.  I know by experience.
	J. D. W.


OBITUARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The late Sister Elizabeth James who was so recently
killed in Salt Lake City, by being thrown from her buggy,
was a very energetic member of the Young Ladies Associ-
ation of this Ward. She had left this ward lately to go to
Bountiful; her husband's occupation called him there.
	The day before she left she bore a strong testimony, and
desired to live the life of a true Latter-day Saint, and bade
her Associates a kindly good-by for a season as her home
is still in this ward.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolved, That we, the young ladies of Union Ward, do
feel to tender our tribute of love and esteem to the memory
of our departed sister, though hurrieddly called to pass
from time to eternity. We feel that she is on the bright
side awaiting the resurrection of the just, and dear friends
left behind.
	Whereas, we feel to submit to the will of an all wise God
who doeth all things well, though called to an untimely
end that all is well with her,and
	Whereas, we feel to condole and sympathize with her
bereaved husband, daughter and a large circle of relatives
and friends, and feel to say mourn not as one without hope
for she in bloom of life was called to pass the portals of
death.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be placed
upon record, a copy sent to the bereaved husband and to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.

	Alas—I in a moment fell,
	I had not time to bid my friends farewell;
	Its nothing strange, death happens unto all,
	My lot to-day, and to-morrow thine may fall.

		Committee.
			SARAH BURTON,
			SARAH A. FORBUSH,
			MARY A. SMART.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

