VOL. 15			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1886.					NO. 5.


THE STEPPING STONE IS SACRIFICE.

Dedicated to our brethren in prison and to all who suffer
	for conscience sake.
	 	Lo, verily "He doth not sleep
		   Who keepeth Isr'al night and day;
		A rich reward they yet shall reap
		   Who serve him always, come what may.

		Fools will deride and laugh to scorn
		   The righteous, when the wicked rule,
		But never are the just forlorn,
		   Though tutor'd in Affliction's school.

		"Elijah's God," who speaks by fire,
		   From seething depths or lurid skies,
		His own with patience doth inspire—
		   In patience compensation lies.

		And wherefore should the faithful shout
		   For God to show His strength and power;
		To shift Eternal plans about,
		   And hasten heaven's appointed hour.

		No less than this the wise expect—
		   To wrestle for the promised crown—
		To share the fate of God's Elect,
		   Even from "righteous Abel" down.

		Oh, not on "flowery beds of ease"
		   Do Saints or heroes mount the skies
		To heaven's supreme felicities—
		   The Stepping Stone is Sacrifice!

		"Through tribulation," even so
		   The King of Glory led the way;
		"Perfect, indeed, through suffering," lo,
		   Our "Intercessor" lives to-day.

		Surely He counteth ev'ry tear—
		   In whom the pure of heart rejoice,
		And yet shall boastful scorners fear
		   The thunders of Jehovah's voice!

		Friends may accuse and men abuse
		   The just, and bid them bow the knee—
		Our God His own good time will choose
		   To set His captive children free.

		"Elijah's God!" to Thee we cry!
		   But not in dread and not in doubt,
		Though Zion's foes should multiply,
		   Thy power will bring her safely out.

		Assured Thou hearest just complaints,
		   Father, in faith on Thee we call;
		Soothe and support Thy suffering Saints,
		   Who even now are held in thrall.
	
		Behold thy people in the dust;
		   Consider all who kiss the rod;
		Strengthen the souls who in Thee trust,
		   Thou mighty one! "Elijah's God!"

		Lord, grant us grace to run "the race"—
		   Cowards can never win the prize;
		To joys in store for evermore,
		   The Stepping Stone is Sacrifice.

						EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City.


[column 1]
	ST. JOHN’S DAY IN CONSTANTI-
				NOPLE.

	“Get up and see what has happened to our
street during the night,"  said my companion,
when he arose this morning.  These dogs,
thought I, that had disturbed my slumbers so
often during the night, have been committing
some depredations.  I was mistaken.  It is St.
John’s Day, and the street was decorated from
one end to the other by flags suspended from
ropes, which had been stretched across the
street.  It was a pretty sight to behold almost
every national flag gently unfolding itself to

[column 2]
the breeze, and especially interesting was it to
see suspended near our window the stars and
stripes—emblems of liberty—our national flag.
It was the only American one to be seen, and
its place so near our window made it doubly
attractive.  All was preparatory to a grand
procession of the Roman Catholics in honor of
the day.
     At an early hour crowds thronged about.
People gathered from different parts of the
city at the houses of their friends and acquaint-
ances to view from the balconies and windows
the procession, which was to take place at four
in the afternoon, but was an hour late.  The
spectators came to be looked at, too, and the
elegant costumes of fashionable society in Con-
stantinople played an important part on the
occasion.  The manner, though, in which the
Christian ladies had painted their faces showed
less skill than that of the Turkish beauties;
but I think the Christian methods of ornament-
ing the arms and ears with jewelry more taste-
ful than those of the Arab ladies, who wear
rings in the nose.  All day long the people
have been crowding the windows and balconies
to see and be seen.  The gentlemen appeared
mostly in American style, many with their hair
parted in the middle and plastered down with
grease.  It might be said, we were envious be-
cause our hair would not part in the middle, or
because we did'nt have any to part.  Be that
as it may, we assumed the role of spectators,
and took the liberty to criticise what did not
suit our tastes and prejudices in that curious
life one sees for the first time when he enters
the ORIENT.  I always thought it bad taste for
a man to part his hair in the middle unless he
was pretty and had small feet.  There was a
light breeze, which made it favorable for pass-
ing the day in gossip. 
	At the appointed hour the street was packed.
The music from the brass band first gave the
signal of the approach of the procession, then
the ladies with their baskets full of rose leaves
stood ready to shower them upon the heads of
the priests.  The first to make their appearance
were the little children, girls about six years
old, who led the march in two single files, about
ten feet apart.  Between the files, and distant
a hundred feet from each other, were little
girls, scarcely able to walk, carrying an an-
chor, a cross, or a picture of some patron saint.
Banners, representing scenes in the life of
Christ and His Apostles, were numerous. After
the little girls dressed in white came the
orphans of the Jesuit schools.  What excited
our curiosity next were a dozen young ladies
under training for their calling as nuns; on
this occasion they were partly veiled.  Then
came the nuns and after them the priests, many
of whom struck a religious attitude, by throw-
ing their heads back, looking up to heaven
and holding their hands folded across the
breast.  One carried a carved figure represent-
ing the Savior with His bleeding wounds; but
the multitude was awakened to its greatest in-
terest when the bishop, an aged man, beneath
a silk canopy, carried by four men, made his
appearance.  His flowing silk robes were
carried by two small boys following a little be-
hind and on each side.  And now the air was
filled with rose leaves, gently falling upon the
canopy and heads of the priests who accom-
panied the bishop, a glimpse of whose face the
multitude tried to catch behind a golden sphere
he carried in his hands, and from which radiat.
ing disks represented the illuminations of

[column 3]
godliness.  A smile, however, crossed the
faces of many of the spectators when the band
started up a German Air—Du bist verruckt
mein kind—“Thou art crazy, my child.”
	There was much pomp and a grand display.
The street is now deserted, and when we had
taken a last glimpse of the priests’ shaved
heads glistening in the sunlight as they disap-
peared, we drew our heads back through our 
windows and began to discuss the curious fea-
tures of a Roman Catholic procession on St.
John's Day.  The Jesuits, who were recently
driven out of France, are strongly represented
here.  A strange comment—Christians driven
out of a Christian land find an asylum among
the Mohammedans, who are more tolerant to-
ward Christians than Christians are toward
one another. The Turks have always offered
protection to religious refugees from Christian
Europe.
	Constantinople, June 27, 1886.


THOUOHTS ON MEETING OLD
			FRIENDS.

	While thinking upon our little gathering to-
night, I stopped to ask myself the question,
"By what power are we thus drawn together?
What was the motive of our beloved hostess
in bidding us welcome to her hospitality, and
what the motive of us, her chosen friends, in 
yielding a hearty response?  Surely selfishness
was not the motive power that incited to ac-
tion in the first case—methinks it has all been
wrought by the law of kindness, by the sweet
spirit of friendship, which ever seeks to bless,
and in turn is capable of appreciating bless-
ings when bestowed.
	We have met, not to enrich ourselves finan-
cially—some are weary of this labor, and seek
rest—but we all desire to enrich the spirit and 
satisfy the craving of our social natures, which,
according to the design of our Creator, occu-
pies so large a space in the formation of hu-
man character, and which, if undeveloped or
neglected, robs mankind of much happiness,
and also deprives him of great power to create
happiness for others.  Therefore, I esteem it a 
duty we owe each other—to meet often, not
merely with the desire to be entertained—the
very thought is born of selfishness, but to en-
tertain, to make others for a time forget the 
cares and trials which daily and hourly oppress
them, to lift them into a more elevated and 
cheerful atmosphere, where they may feel re-
freshed and renewed.  Thus we lift ourselves,
and by concealing whatever may be our special
thorn in the flesh, we forget that one exists,
and often, by the power of association, we
learn how to lay many of our burdens down,
and in their place we carry away more ex-
tended views and new ideas to assist us in our
srtuggles through life.  Samuel Smiles says,
"A life exclusively occupied in affairs of busi-
ness insensibly tends to narrow and harden the 
character.  It is mainly occupied with self,
watching for advantages and guarding against
sharp practices on the part of others.  Thus
the character unconsciously tends to grow sus-
picious and ungenerous."
	While this may be true regarding a business
life, which usually falls to the lot of man, the 
sphere usually occupied by women, that of the 
home and family, tends in another direction;
not to harden the character, for there is so
much in woman's lot constantly requiring ac-
tive sympathy and tenderness, but it tends to a


contraction of mind power, to weariness and
discontent of spirit by its monotony and in-
creasing physical toil, and the mental powers
in time become dwarfed, and aside from that
particular species of intelligence requisite in
controling home affairs, she becomes powerless
to act successfully, and much of the power
and intelligence with which she is endowed
lies dormant, which, according to God's
economy is all wrong. Intelligence, wisdom, 
talents and various other gifts and graces be-
stowed upon woman were never intended to
waste their sweetness and power upon the 
desert air. And in social life what would so-
ciety be without the exquisite social qualities
of woman? Like dancing without music, like
Nature devoid of bird, song and flowers. 
	So woman's social nature should never be 
neglected; and we, above all women, should
never allow our reunions to descend into
mere gossiping associations, but each should
polish up her store of gifts and graces 
for the purpose of benefiting others, seek-
ing always for the inspiration of God's 
Holy Spirit to descend like the gentle
dews of heaven upon all our efforts, that
each and all may truly be refreshed, and also
be reminded that our association here is but
typical of that which we are destined to enjoy
in the eternal worlds. 
	LILLIE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS. 

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY. 

(Continued.) 

	Saturday, the 9th. At Sunset they en-
camped on the banks of "Junction Bluff
Fork," and the grass there being better than
any they had lately seen, it was deemed ex-
pedient to remain there the greater part of
the day, in order to give their horses a chance
to recruit themselves. Here he mentions
their having quite a heavy rain storm the en-
suing morning. They pursued their journey
"at 8 a. m. Proceeding a mile, and forded
a small stream, near which in a stick by the
side of the road was found a few lines from
Amasa Lyman stating that they had left here
on Saturday morning last, and that the night
before they had gone to the bluffs to procure
a supply of meat that they got along rather
slow, not making over between 15 or 20 miles
per day, but were all well and in tolerably
good spirits. Near here we noticed that the
ox teams had encamped, from appearances, 
some 4 or 5 days since. It is the opinion of
most of the brethren that Amasa and his com-
rades are not now more than 30 or 40 miles
ahead of us, and if the ox teams do not 
stop, the brethren weak and faint from living
entirely on meat, must necessarily give up the
chase." This day's journey brought them in
sight of a large cluster of trees. He says: 
	"It is quite cheering to us to come once
more in sight of, and to travel along near the
timber, after being so long debarred of that
privilege."
	Four buffaloes were killed that day and
brought into camp on horses. And another
was killed the next day and brought to camp 
in Brother Woodruff's carriage. The day
following, Wednesday the 13th, after travel-
ing 16 miles they discovered two or three
large herds of buffalo coming down to the
water a little in advance of them. Two
brethren went out and each shot a cow and a
number were sent to assist in skinning them. 
"They were gone until ten o'clock, when they
returned—Orson bringing in quite a supply of
the fattest meat we have seen in some time" 
	On Saturday the 16th they overtook "Amasa
Lyman and his comrades, with the exception 

[Column 2]
of two viz. Stephen H. Goddard and Father
Kellogg. These had left them on Tuesday
last determined yet to overtake the ox teams.
*	*	The brethren all looked considera-
bly fatigued with their travels and were glad 
once more to meet with us. We have but
slight hopes of overtaking the ox teams." *
*	*	Two of the Frenchmen came in
this evening, bringing on their mules part of
two cows that they had killed. 
	"Father Chamberlain broke the iron axle 
tree of his wagon while descending a steep
bank when we forded "Buffalo Creek." 
	"Sunday the 17th. There being few if any
buffalo to be seen below here, and a number
of our horses having given out, it was de-
termined to remain in the vicinity a day or
two, while we could procure some meat and
also recruit the failing strength of our animals. 
Accordingly this morning two captains viz. 
Luke Johnson and John Brown were appointed 
to superintend the hunting expedition to be
undertaken to-day in pursuit of buffaloes. 
Each of them chose their own men and started
out on foot about 9 o'clock a.m.	*	*
About noon a number of wagons were sent out
to bring in buffaloes in case the hunters should 
succeed in killing any." 
	Monday the 18th. Fine cool weather. 
Thomas Woolsy was sent out this morning to
tell the hunters to come in to-night with what
game they had killed, that we might proceed
on our way. We started on at 10 a.m., pro-
ceeding three miles we met a company of
horsemen from Winter Quarters, whose names
are as follows:—
	Hosea Stout, George Grant, G. I. Potter, 
William Kimball, Jacob Frazier, George W. 
Langley, W. I. Earl. W. Miles, W. Martin-
dale, Wm. Huntington, Freeman H. Calkins,
James W. Cummings, S. S. Thornton, Levi
Heikerson, James H. Glines, Chancy Whit-
ney." 
	They had been eleven days coming—had
met the ox teams near the ford of the Loop 
Fork who intended to go on without stopping. 
"With the horsemen came S. H. Goddard, 
Ezekiel Kellogg and Jackson Reddin, the lat-
ter was with Wm. Clayton when he left the
valley. Orson and myself received a letter 
from mother, and myself one stating that they
were all well,etc.'	*	*	After spend-
ing a little time in conversation with the
brethren we went on and encamped at half
past three p.m., having come 10 miles to-day." 
One of those who went out in pursuit of
buffalo brought word that they had secured
enough meat to load the wagons. Further-
more that as "he was returning he saw a large
body of Indians across the river some five or
six miles distant. It was therefore deemed ex-
pedient to send for the brethren to come in to-
night. Accordingly a little after dark Hosea
Stout, Wilber Earl, J. Redden, J. Mathews,
Wm. Huntington, and Wm. Martindale started
out on a horseback for that purpose." 
	"Tuesday the 19th. We remained to-day
encamped. This forenoon Brother Heber, 
Wm. H. Kimball and three or four others
went over the river in pursuit of a large herd
of buffaloes that had lately made their appear-
ance in the vicinity, They returned this
afternoon with a cow." That evening the
hunters who went out on Sunday returned
with those who were sent in pursuit of them. 
"They brought in three wagons which were
loaded down with nine buffalo cows in very
good condition. Hosea Stout and his com-
rades did not find them until this morning. I
stood on guard to-night the 1st and Orson the
last watch. The wolves again to-night enter-
tained us at a distance with one of their 
agreeable (?) concerts." 
	This was their first buffalo-hunt. Much of 
their meat was cut in strips and dried without
any salt after the Indian custom, which they

[Column 3]
called "jerked" meat. Nothing of this is men-
tioned in the journal but I heard it described,
and also ate some of it, which was very palat-
able, though it would be very hard to be tied
to that alone, as they were until they received
the supplies from Winter Quarters. 
	For a time, after the provisions had ran so
low that they had to depend on the killing of
wild game, for subsistence, they indulged once
a week—Sunday—in a thin porridge made of
flour and water. After living so much on meat
it seemed to create an appetite for tobacco,
some who had never previously cared for it
were now eager to get it. The scarcity of the
article made it so valuable that the boys would
make one cud serve them a number of times, 
and they would lay it away carefully as a most
choice morsal. After every other source had
failed, and being in a great strait, my husband,
knowing that Brother Benson kept the weed
for doctoring horses, went and asked him for
a little, which he gave him, and when asked
what the charge was, he was told that he could
return the favor when they got home by com-
ing to his house and singing some songs for
him. This was not written down but was related
to me verbally. 
	Wednesday the 21st he wrote that the camp
was able to move considerably faster than they
had hitherto done in consequence of their rein-
forcement of horses from Winter Quarters. 
He also speaks of the weather being cold, 
cloudy and windy. They continued their
journey "at 9 a.m., proceeding fifteen miles
without making any halt. We encamped at 3 
p.m. in the bed of the river, which was dry
here, between Grand Island and the main 
shore.	*	*	This was one of the best 
camp grounds we had had for some time, se-
cured as we were on every side from the howl-
ing blasts that swept fiercely across the open
prairie.	*	*	The Frenchmen re-
ported this evening that they had discovered
traces of an Indian camp and moccasin tracks
of no older date than last night; therefore, the
brethren were cautioned to watch closely their
horses." On saturday they reached the "Loop 
Fork of Platte River" at three p.m. and en-
camped on its banks,
	"Sunday the 24th, clear weather, though
extremely cold and windy. Two wagons made
several attempts to cross the river this a.m.,
which all proved ineffectual on account of the
high winds and quicksand giving way beneath
the horses feet. One or two horsemen while
urging their horses across the stream, were
thrown from their backs, on account of their
stumbling and sinking in the sand; it was 
therefore decided to defer fording the river 
until to-morrow when the wind might cease
and we have a better chance for crossing." In
the morning there being but little wind stir-
ring they crossed the river, but men had pre-
viously been sent ahead to stake out a track for
them to follow, which, he says after a few of the
wagons had passed over became quite firm. 
We were obliged, however, to double teams,
and in some cases a number of men were
obliged to accompany the wagons, wading in
the water to assist them through. Brother
Kimball and myself both did this and were
quite chilled through, the water being ex-
tremely cold, though not very high. 
	That evening, by counsel, several of the
men "went ahead on horseback to Winter
Quarters to apprise the folks that we were
close by, to allay the anxiety that they might
feel at our prolonged absence from home." 
Amasa Lyman and four others of the pioneers, 
were the messengers and two of the French-
men also accompanied them. 
	My husband speaks of writing a letter for
"Brother Heber to his wife Vilate encourag-
ing her to be of good cheer etc., for we should
be with them in about a week."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WAS I DREAMING? 

In the groves by the meadows, 
The music—I there listened to—
When Faries danced in the moonlight haze. 
The night breeze sighed,
The Zephyrs whispered,
And stillness grew while I listened.
Thanks, ye gods! that I can recall it. 

It beckoned me deeper and deeper
Into its sacred realm; when it ceased,
Its departing resonance, leaving me in a longing,
A want, but in which I dreamed,
Oh, so  happy! until I awoke. 
The blindfolding removed? 
I beheld! Angels! That vision! 

Should I try to describe it? No. 
Ye eternal gods! accept my thanks! 
It was you who re-awakened in my soul
Celestial memories, from heavenly abodes,
Reviving in me eternal love, 
Glimpses of that glory, 
In which I once dwelt with you. 

I spoke to them. They awoke,
Strange, as from another world. 
I beheld—I lived, as it were, a lifetime of joy,
In which I seemed to ripen into manhood. 
Vestals from heavenly mansions
Stood before me, of unsurpassed beauty; 
We were permitted to enter the Temple of God. 

There again I heard the music, as of yore, 
And memories sweet my soul enjoyed; 
I was entranced in that heavenly mood, 
Recalled from celestial childhood. 
A veil was between us,
It being removed,
I saw them again—my wives. 
								H. M.


THE THOUGHTS OF GOD

				BY FRANCES RIDLEY HAVERGAL, 

		They say there is a hollow safe and still, 
	A point of coolness and repose
Within the centre of a flame, where life might dwell 
Unharmed and unconsumed, as in a luminous shell, 
	Which the bright walls of fire enclose
		In breachless splendor, barrier that no foes
			Could pass at will

		There is a point of rest
	At the great centre of the cyclone's force,
	A silence at its secret source; 
		A little child might slumber undistressed,
Without a ruffle of one fairy curl, 
In that strange central calm amid the mighty whirl. 

		So, in the centre of these thoughts of God, 
	Cyclones of power, consuming glory fire,—
		As we fall overawed
	Upon our faces, and are lifted higher
	By His great gentleness, and carried nigher
		Than unredeemed angels, till we stand
		Even in the hollow of His hand—
	Nay, more! we lean upon His breast—
	There, there we find a point of perfect rest
		And glorious safety; there we see
	His thoughts to usward, thoughts of peace
	That stoop in tenderest love; that still increase
With increase of our need; that never change,
	That never fail, or falter, or forget. 

		O pity infinite! 
		O royal mercy free! 
	O gentle climax of the depth and height
Of God's most precious thoughts, most wonderful, most
		strange! 
	"For I am poor and needy, yet
	The Lord Himself, Jehovah, thinketh upon me!"


HENRIETTA'S VISIT.

		BY EMILY B. SPENCER

	A tall, slender, dark-eyed girl communed
with herself one fair, bright morning.
	"I will go and see Margaret to-day; it is a
long time since I have visited her."
	They had grown up together, eating their


supper of milk and porridge on each other's 
doorsteps, as they fancied, for their houses
joined. But in later years Margaret's father
had moved away to a small village near Edin-
burgh, and the two girls, now grown, scarcely
met. 
	"Don't go," seemed whispered authoritatively
in Henrietta's ear, "Don't go!" "I will," she
answered to herself, "Margaret is going to be
married." "Don't go," again came the silent
voice, "they are horrible Mormons." Within
her mind a struggle commenced. One still 
small voice said, "Go, and you will always re-
joice." The opposite spirit whispered, "Stay
at home, or you will be scoffed at for visiting
there." 
	Again and again came the pleading voice of
"Courage!" and as often came the warning
voice of "Don't go!" Which was best? Un-
known to her, her future destiny for time and
all eternity lay in that decision. 
	She seemed bound by an invisible power,
but with an effort she roused herself, and giv-
ing a final decision, "I will go," arose and be-
gan to get ready for the pleasant morning walk
with a light and happy heart. Briskly she set
out, and with joy swelling in her heart arrived 
at her beloved Margaret's home. 
	The two girls talked of the past, the present
and the future, and when Hennrietta asked
what the Mormons believed in, Margaret's
father arose, placed his chair before him and
commenced expounding the first principles of
Mormonism, faith, repentance and baptism; 
that everything was done by faith; if we had
no faith we would cease to work or exert our-
selves to obtain anything; that faith healed the
sick—faith performed wonders. Repentance
of all misdeeds and forsaking the same. Bap.
tism for the remission of sins, to be baptized
and buried under the water, symbolical of the 
burial and resurrection of Jesus Christ, which
is essential, which is the only door, the only
entrance to the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, which is the only true
church, the only one that He acknowledges.
And for all of his argument he quoted Scrip-
ture, showing that this present Church was 
identically in doctrine the same as that estab-
lished in former days by Christ.
	A new light dawned upon her mind, a new
joy pervaded her heart. "It is true! it is true!" 
she exclaimed. It was because of the truth
that the conflict had been so hard in the morn-
ing, and there was a power to try and stay her
from going. 
	It was the truth that she heard, the truth
that she loved, and the truth that she believed. 
	[To be Continued.]


WOMAN’S MEETING AT AMERICAN
FORK.

	A special meeting of the Relief Society was
held in the meeting house of American Fork
Thursday, July 15th, President Mary S. Hind-
ley presiding. Sisters E. R. Snow Smith and
E. B. Wells of this city were present by invi-
tation. Bishop Bromley, his Counselors and
other brethren, also officers of the Relief So-
ciety, occupied seats upon the platform.
	Sister Eliza, whose name is familiar to this
people as a leader among the sisters, addressed
the meeting both in the morning and afternoon
sessions. Her great age and venerable appear-
ance, her stately and dignified manner, her
choice language and clear and concise method
of expression,together with her long and varied
experience in the Church all combine to give
weight and emphasis to her wise counsel and
earnest exhortation, and on this occasion, par-
ticularly, her words could not fail to make a
deep and lasting impression upon all who were
privileged to see and hear her, for her dis-
course was even more than ordinarily eloquent
and prophetic.


Bishop Bromley spoke a short time at the
close of the morning meeting. He made an
eloquent and forcible appeal to the sisters and
mothers in regard to the position they occupied
and their duties to the young and rising genera-
tion, and complimented the members of the
Relief Society on the efficiency of their labors,
which he seemed fully to appreciate and com-
prehend. He alluded feelingly to his recent 
indictment and probable imprisonment for liv-
ing his religion and obeying a divine com-
mandment, and spoke with great firmness and
courage of his convictions, and in reference to
the situation of affairs in Utah at the present 
time. Many interesting remarks were made
by other sisters calculated to strengthen, bless
and encourage the Saints. The speakers were
Sisters Mary John, of Provo; Elizabeth Brown, 
of Pleasant Grove; Rebecca Standring, Lehi; 
Margaret McCullough, Alpine; and E. B. 
Wells, Salt Lake City. President Hindley
and Counselor Crompton made closing remarks, 
expressing their enjoyment in the testimonies 
that had been borne by those who had spoken, 
and thought that the exercises throughout were
calculated to inspire to renewed dilligence and
faithfulness. An excellent spirit characterized 
the entire proceedings. The meeting closed
with singing, "The spirit of God like a fire is 
burning." Benediction by Bishop Bromley.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

	Santa Fe. N. M., is to have a monument to
Helen Hunt Jackson of the most fitting kind, 
viz., a Ramona school for Indian girls. She
pleaded for those who are unable to plead for
themselves. 
	In Memphis, Tenn., girls and women are
employed to make a certain grade of jeans 
pants for $1.25 a dozen, and some as low as
$1 a dozen. Shirts that retail for $2.50 are
made by women for eight cents each. Carpet-
sewers, who work about four months in the
year, get from seventy-five cents to $1 a day
of twelve and often fifteen hours. 
	A lady correspondent, writing from Paris,
announces that at a recent wedding in that
city the bride's veil fell to below the waist, and
the orange blossoms, instead of being placed
inside, were on the outside of the veil. The
effect is described as much of an improvement. 
The veil can be gathered around the face
closely, and gives an air of modesty and reverie 
suitable to a woman on the most important
day of her life. The difference does not seem
very great, but before the mandates of Paris
fashions all well-dressed ladies bow. 
	There died a few days ago, at Geneva, a lady
named Elise Darier, who, though her life had
been neither noteworthy nor eventful, was re-
markable as being the last surviving Gene-
voise born under the old republic, and who
could remember its conquest by the French di-
rectory. When the French troops took pos-
session of the city in 1798, Elise Darier was
six years old, and the event made such an im-
pression on her mind that she never forgot it. 
In 1800 she saw General Bonaparte at Coppet, 
as he rode through the village in a post chaise
on his way to join the army of Italy, sur-
rounded by a brilliant staff and a guard of
Mamelukes. When a little older she danced
at a ball given by Mme. de Stael, and in 1814
at another, given by the city of Geneva to the
Austrian General Bubna, after the defeat and
withdrawal of the French army of occupation. 
As Mlle. Darrier had an excellent memory,
and retained her faculties unimpared to the last
day of her long life, she was regarded in
Geneva as an almost historic character, and
enjoyed general respect as the sole surviving
link with an eventful past.	Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
Woman's Exponent. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	Editor

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms: 
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount 
to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
				SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH. 

SALT LAKY CITY,	-	AUGUST 1, 1886


[Column 1]
	MRS. NEWMAN'S PETITION AGAIN.

	Mrs. Newman reflects somewhat upon the Utah
Commission, it seems to us, because they have
not been severe enough in their dealings with the
"Mormon" people to meet her approbation. She
says, "After the passage of the Edmunds bill, it
was held by the judges of the courts that registra-
tion could be denied women on the basis of the
invalidity of the Territorial statute. The Utah
Commission were asked to so declare. But while
listening to the argument the commission declined
to act." There is no doubt but that if it had been
possible at any time for the ballot to be taken from
"Mormon" women with any show of legality
whatever, it would have been done. The cases
before the courts in 1879 and 1882 prove plain
enough the fact that the law giving the women of
Utah the ballot was valid, and for that very reason
it could not be taken from them without due pro
cess of law.
	Mrs. Newman says, "Shall the United States
compromise with this quasi-sovereignty under
the specious plea of vested rights." First she
wants to blame the Utah Commission for not push-
ing this matter to the extreme, and then the
United States for a lack of severity. Surely a few
"Mormon" womens' votes are a dreadful annoy-
ance to Mrs. Newman. She says Gentile women
do not care to vote. She says, "The men were
enfranchised by national authority, and in conson-
ance with constitutional provision, the women by
an alien church organization, whieh renders no
allegiance to the government." The women of
Utah had the ballot given to them in the same
way as the women of Wyoming by the legislature
of the Territory and signed by the Governor.
Would Mrs. Newman say the women of Wyoming
and Washington Territories were not entitled to
the ballot? If "Mormon" men are legal voters it
was their vote that elected the Legislature, and
being thus elected, why had they not the right to
pass laws? and if other laws, then why not a law
to confer the elective franchise on women? Mrs.
Newman tells Congress to withdraw this mighty
power in elections—of 12,000 female votes—and
very soon county and municipal Gentile officers
could be elected, and Gentile representatives
chosen for the legislature. Mrs. Newman wants
men to vote, all classes of men in Utah except
that class now already disfranchised. The
drunkard, the gambler, the saloon keeper, those
who would use their utmost influence to destroy
the youth of the land by the sale and use of ardent
spirits and other vile practices of various kinds;
she, a refined and educated woman, would take
the votes from "Mormon" women to throw the
balance of power in favor of those who would 
support such practices. She mourns, as it were,
that the Gentile element is not more strongly rep-
resented, and thinks by substracting 12,000
votes that very soon the Gentile vote will have an
equal proportion, or balance of power. Does she
know what class of Gentiles predominate in the
mining districts, and what fearful consequences
might result from giving them the balance of

[Column 2]
power? She certainly cannot know! Why would
she want sin and crime to abound where purity
and virtue are now the real and true superior in-
fluences? She says the miners are men without
families, or those who have left their families in
the east. Does she realize all that this implies?
Men without families, men who have only self to
think of, who are absorbed in human pleasures?
Men who do not care to build up the country
while here in Utah, or to make homes such as
exercise a refining influence upon the inmates.
Men who pass their days and months in camps,
without the society of gentle, tender, pure woman;
one need not repeat the story of mining camp-life,
nor tell how votes are bought and sold; suffice it
to say, sound principles do not control their votes.
It would be a fearful thing for the Territory of
Utah if the ballot were taken from women to give
such men the balance of power. Those who
know the facts are well aware what the conse-
quences would be. There are Gentile women in
Utah, who do protest against woman's disfranchise-
ment, women of brains and of means; they may
be the exception, and they are not rabid anti-Mor
mons, but they are women of culture and training,
and they know and appreciate the advantages of
political equality and are not willing to have the
right wrested from them after having enjoyed it so
long. But what right has Mrs. Newman or any
other person or class of persons to interfere with
the ballot in the hands of the legal voters of the
women of Utah, who have never even been ac-
cused of disobeying any law, human or divine,
whether they are "Mormons" or Gentiles? The
enforcement of the Edmunds Law upon those
whom the law considers offenders, has already
caused sorrow and hardship enough. It is this
cruel disrupting of families and severing the ten-
derest ties, that is causing women's hearts to
break and filling the land with desolation and
mourning. We say to Mrs. Newman, and to all
such persons, consider your work, for by these
things you will be judged: by a higher court than
the Supreme Court of the United States; these
acts are written in the books that are kept by the
recording angels, and you will have to meet them;
the tears, the sorrow, the cruel separations, the
sickness and death of many in consequence of
these persecutions, will be charged to those who
have wrought this cruel work. Are you prepared
for the consequences? Tender women deprived
of the love, companionship and support of the
husband; little ones left without a father's care;
are there not enough suffering women in the world
and fatherless children?
	O let not these things be laid at your door, but
cease to persecute the Saints, and turn your at-
tention to some noble work in the cause of hu-
manity. Help those who are weak and erring;
"Mormon" women do not need you, they are strong
in the Lord, who is all powerful, and their faith
will not fail, for they know their cause is just and
will yet triumph. We wish no evil to any, but
say to all the principles we are now defend-
ing will be maintained, for they are eternal. There
is no fear in the heart of a true Saint, but strength
and courage and firmness for the right and the
truth, and those who are for this people are more
than those who are against them, for the innumer-
able hosts of heaven are arrayed on the side of
those who are seeking to establish correct princi-
ples and social purity, and no great work has ever
been accomplished without suffering and sacrifice.
Our Savior suffered most of all, and if we would
be like Him we also must endure trials and perse-
cutions until our Father says it is enough, and
"God will protect us in doing what's right."


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	ON account of publishing so much of the pro-
ceedings at the Tabernacle on Pioneer day, there
is not room for other matter on hand.  Brief re-


ports of meetings we had attended in the 19th
Ward of this city and in Sandy; also conferences
at Kaysville and Provo, some interesting items
connected with the G. A. R. visitors, and other
things that help to make variety, are crowded out.
We have also articles from Mrs. M. A. M. Pratt
and Mrs. P. C. Young in answer to Mrs. Angie
F. Newman's statements about “Mormon”women,
their condition, their votes and so forth, that will
be given next issue.


PIONEER DAY.

IN THE LARGE TABERNACLE.

	The large tabernacle in this city was well filled,
galleries included, with people on Saturday July
24th, the occasion being the anniversary of the
entrance of the pioneers thirty-nine years ago.
The stands were draped in mourning for the absent
ones who are in exile and in prison for conscience
sake. Over the stand of the First Presidency
were conspicuously placed appropriate mottoes.

	“The First Presidency: In exile for Conscience Sake.”

	“Of the Twelve Apostles and Counselors: Those not
here are in jeopardy, in prison, and in foreign lands, be-
cause they prefer to obey God rather than man.”

	“The Presidency of the Stake: Having tasted of the
vengeance of their enemies, and felt their cruel disregard
of law, their labors and visits are like the Angels', seen
only by those who have faith.”

	“Of the Presiding Bishopric: Those who are absent
choose to be wanderers in their own land in preference to
being victims to those who have selected them for ruin.”

   On the top of the front of the organ in large
gilt letters were the words,

	“In God we put our Trust,”

and below,	

	Under the Everlasting Covenant God will and must be
glorified.”

	Beesley’s martial band and the Sunday School
Union band furnished appropriate music. Super-
intendents of Sunday Schools, High Councilors,
Bishops and others,including three of the original
pioneers, occupied the platform, Bishops Lorenzo
D. Young, Millen Atwood and Elder S. Turnbow
Elder John C. Cutler, Assistant Superintendent,
presided.  Elder McIntire had charge of the
children singing. Meeting opened at 10 a.m.,
children singing “Marching Homeward.” Prayer
by Bishop M. Atwood. Song by the children,
“Beautiful Zion.” Music by the S. S. Union
band, “Passing under the Rod.”
	Pioneer address by Bishop O. F. Whitney,who
is a son of H. K. Whitney, one of the Pioneers
(now deceased).
	My Brethren and Sisters: In addressing a few
words to this vast congregation, I shall not at-
tempt to dazzle your minds by a display of oratory.
Even were it in my power I should not deem it
proper on this occasion. I prefer, rather, to have
my words remembered and made use of, to have
them understood by all, and sink, like good seed
npon fertile soil, into the hearts of my hearers, to
bring forth the fruits of life and salvation under
the blessing of God’s Holy Spirit, to His name’s
honor and glory.
	Among our noblest heroes and heroines whom
history has made immortal, are those brave men
and women who have, in different ages of the
world,refused to surrender their sacred convictions
and be untrue to the dictates of their con-
sciences—the voice of God in the human heart
and have left home and country, often despoiled
of their possessions, and have taken their lives
in their hands, bid adieu to their native land, with
all the associations and ties of kindred and affec-
tion, and have gone forth to seek out a new land
where, they might enjoy the rights of conscience


[Column 1]
unmolested, and worship the God of their fathers
in His own appointed way. Such were the chil-
dren of Israel in ancient times, who, led by the
Prophet Moses, shook off the shackles of Egyp-
tian bondage and went forth into the willderness
to worship God according to His command. Such,
also, were the pilgrims of New England who, in
the 17th centuary of the Christian era, fled from
the tyranny of the old world and planted them-
selves on the western shores of the Atlantic;
where, with their descendants, they were instru-
mental in the hands of Providence in establishing
the great government under which we are now
living; in founding a nation whose broad wings of
protection overshadow the oppressed, the tram-
pled on and distressed of all nations, and which
furnishes an asylum, a place of refuge for the
weary exiles of every land. Such also were the
pioneers of Utah who, nine and thirty years ago,
emerged from yonder mountain gorge, into this
then silent and desert valley,and lifted the ensign
of liberty, the flag of our country, and unfurled
its glorious folds from the summit of yon lofty
peak. 
	Living as we do amid the results of their labors,
plucking the fruit from the tree of their planting,
crossing with safety and in ease the chasms they
bridged, and rejoicing even in the midst of sorrow,
in the blessings bequeathed by heaven as the re-
ward of their courage and industry, we can only
conceive to a very limited extent the greatness of
their toils and sacrifices—sacrifices made willing-
ly and labors that were performed patiently from
year to year, that we, their children, and posterity
in general, might enjoy the rich blessings which
their valor, their self-denial and industry have
handed down to us. Utah to-day is the garden of
the interior west. Thirty-nine years ago it was a
wilderness, a desolation, scorched by the sun, and
trodden by the roving red man, whose food con-
sisted in part of wild roots dug from the ground,
reptiles that crawled and hissed and rattled among
the hot rocks of the plain, and the crickets and
grasshoppers that noisily chirped upon the moun-
tain sides. Their music was the scream of eagles,
the melancholy howl of the wolf and the coyote,
the voice of the distant torrent mingling with the
twitter of the mountain bird. Then it was the
heat of the Great American desert; now it blooms
with orchards, farms and vineyards,is dotted with
cities and hamlets, the homes of a peaceable,
prosperous, and (were it not that the cruel hand
of persecution has fastened upon their throats) a
a happy people. We can not realize, I say, the
greatness of the labors and sacrifices that were
necessary to cause this wilderness to bloom, as it
now does, like the garden of the Lord; we can
not conceive of the toils and trials through which
our fathers and mothers passed in order to es-
tablish in this chosen land their children’s feet,
and perpetuate those glorious principles which
are destined to redeem and happify the world.
When the pioneers approached this desolate valley
they were met by an old mountaineer. Colonel
Bridger, who, on learning of their intention to
settle in the valley of Great Salt Lake, exclaimed
in tones of mingled pity and derision. "I will
give a thousand dollars for the first bushel of
wheat you raise in that valley." This will serve
to show, in spite of the envious detractions of
small-souled bigots who fain would lessen the
glory of the pioneers, and the honor due to that
God who so signally preserved and miraculously
delivered them, the amount of labor, courage and
perserverance necessary to redeem this desert
land and make it blossom in its present fragrance
and beauty.
	And who were those pioneers, those founders
of Utah, whose children and associates I have
the honor of addressing? They were exiles for
conscience’ sake, banished from the confines of
civilization, driven forth from a land of Christian
churches by mobs led on and inspired by Chris-

[Column 2]
tian priests, for daring to have opinions of their
own and worship, in their own way the God of
their fathers in a land of religious liberty; thrust
forth from the homes their industry had won,com-
pelled to cross the frozen Mississippi on the ice
in the month of February, leaving their bloody
footprints on the ice of the river and upon its frozen
shores. Starving and naked, stripped of all their
possessions, they refused either to die, to become
discouraged, relinquish their sacred rights, or to
lose for one moment, their faith in their sublime
and glorious destiny. Leaving their burning
city and ravaged fields in the hands of their mer-
ciless oppressors with their wives and little ones
clustered around them, dying by scores as the re-
sult of the inhuman treatment to which they had
been subjected, they drew their shattered rem-
nants out upon the bleak and trackless prairie. A
journey of 1,500 miles, over frozen rivers and
barren plains,a journey marked mile after mile by
the graves of their aged parents, their delicate
wives and tender little ones, brought them to the
Rocky Mountains, and on the Twenty-fourth of
July, 1847, thirty-nine years ago, this day, their
wagons rolled down yonder slope and encamped
upon this silent plain.
	I would have these children remember the
works of their noble fathers and heroic mothers.
I would have them remember the lineage through
which they have come, and strive before God and
the world to be worthy of that lineage. Descended
from Israel of old, who shook off the bondage of
Egypt preferring the wilderness, with its freedom,
to civilization with its chains; the children, too
many of them, of the Pilgrims who came across
the mighty deep from the tyranny of the old world
and laid the foundation upon this chosen land of
the great government under which we live; I
would have them remember, also, that they are
the sons and daughters of patriots, whose hearts
burn and whose blood tingles with the spirit and
genius of liberty; that their fathers and mothers,
even when driven, outcast and exiled for the sake
of their religion, the free exercise of which is
guaranteed under the constitution of our country,
fleeing from the civilization which had refused to
protect them, that they still remained true and
loyal to the principles of liberty. Thirty-nine
years ago, day after to-morrow, they ascended
yonder peak and lifted the ensign of freedom
upon Mexican soil, thereby signifying not only
their loyalty to the country which had thrust
them from its borders, but their determination to
stand by the principles of truth and liberty, to
maintain the palladium of equal rights, the aegis
of protection to the out-cast of all nations.
	This, my young brethren and sisters, fore-
shadowed your destiny, the destiny of the chil-
dren of the pioneers; for the same great prophet
who predicted that the Latter-day Saints would
be driven westward, and become a mighty people
in the midst of the Rocky Mountains, also de-
clared that the time would come when their sons
and daughters would rescue the constitution and
the flag; the glorious stars and stripes, the flag
of freedom, which symbolizes by its stars the
glory and success, and by its stripes the sufferings
and trials of our brave ancestors—that the chil-
dren of this people would rescue them from the
hands of traitors and tyrants who would trample
them in the mire. Remember, therefore, your
destiny and the great things expected of you.
You are not the enemies of this land of liberty;
you are not the foes of freedom; you are not
traitors to your country; you are the sons and
daughters of free men and free women, of patriots
and prophets, pilgrims and pioneers, and it de-
volves upon you to be worthy of your noble
lineage, and lift the standard of liberty and truth
to all the world. God bless you and help you to
realize this destiny is my earnest prayer, in the
name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Tabernacle choir, then sung “Might with the

[Column 3]
Right;” Organ Solo “Commemoration March,”
Prof. J. J. Daynes;  Duet, “Sunset” Mrs. Julia
Silverwood and Miss A. Vincent. Elder R. R.
Irvine read in a very clear voice and in an im-
pressive manner a sentiment from the pen of
Zion’s poetess-laureate Eliza R. Snow Smith.

		  PAST AND PRESENT
	"When the wicked rule the people mourn."

	Verily, verily, is the truth of this saying verified
in these mountain vales. How strikingly appro-
priate to our present condition, the emblems of
sorrow and mourning, in the celebration of this
auspicious day—the opening day when this
American Desert, which had slept for many ages
and generations, was awakened from its deadly
slumber to be robed in all the beauty and loveli-
ness of cultivated nature, produced by the hand
of arduous toil, of a people peeled and driven.
	But God was with us, and His Blessings gave
efficacy to the labor of our hands.
	The country which banished us is the land of
my birth, and the time has been when I was
proud to call it my own. Then it was a beacon
of light to nations afar—an asylum for the home-
less and the oppressed of all peoples. Then its
statesmen were men with souls—not greedy for
gain, but devoted to the interests of humanity,and
holding national honor dearer than life. Then
its courts—its seats of justice and Congress halls,
were receptacles of trust, honor and confidence.
Civil and religious liberty were guaranteed to all,
and bequeathed to coming generations by the
sacred and glorious Constitution inspired by the
Almighty.
	Such was my country, and then my heart
swelled with pride that I was an American citizen.
But now, alas! I am forced to exclaim, “How are
the mighty fallen?’ Where are the Washingtons,
the Adamses, and the Jeffersons of the other day?
Beneath our sheltering flag, Joseph Smith my be-
loved husband, the choice of my heart and the
crown of my life—a Prophet of the living God,
and by Him appointed to open the last dispensa-
tion—an innocent man, guilty of no crime, was
cruelly assassinated in Carthage, Illinois, while
under the plighted protection of the governor of
that State. And now his blood and that of his
brother Hyrum, who was murdered at the same
time, cries for vengeance from the gronnd. The
mantle of protection was thrown around the
assassins, the foul perpetrators of that horrid
deed, and not one move has been made to bring
them to justice, and that crime now rests on
our national escutcheon.
	But God did not look with indifference on that
atrocious deed, and He does not forget its perpe-
trators—as far as known, not one of them has
died a natural death. The horrid wail has been
wafted on the breeze of maggots holding carni-
vals in their flesh, until, although in horrible fear
of what awaited them beyond, they earnestly
prayed for death. God, the avenger of unrecom-
pensed guilt, will surely mete out justice in His
own time. Justice will claim its own. 
	In these once peaceful, happy vales, where
from every saintly dwelling the songs of praise
and thannksgiving ascended on the morning and
evening breeze, when the right to worship God
according to the dictates of conscience was un-
restrained, when domestic peace and happiness
were unmolested, this ever memorable day was
crowned with gaiety, innocent mirth, rejoicing
and thanksgiving. Fathers and mothers, parents
and children were happy in each others’ society.
Now, where are the fathers? Some of them to
evade the merciless hand of persecution are vol-
untary exiles in foreign countries. Many of them
are wasting their time and energies in the dreary
confines of loathsome prisons in our own land—a
land of boasted freedom and equal rights.
	Our leaders, whose genial presence was wont
to cheer us, and whose wise counsels, emanations


[Column 1]
from God, were as the Polar star, are no longer
in our midst—wives and children are left without
their natural protectors; and all this for conscince'
sake. The blessings of home, "sweet home,"
the foundation of all natural greatness, and grand
incentive to all that is desirable, elevating, and
ennobling in human life, are now being wrested
from us by unscrupulous government officials.
The very people who opened up a path in the 
desert—who, by unparalelled toil and privation
have, through the blessing of God made this, the
once dreary and desolate region, to blossom as
the rose, until it has excited the envy and greed
of the spoilers of our peace and prosperity, are
now being robbed of those constitutional rights
and liberties guaranteed to American citizens by
our forefathers. 
	In my lone widowhood I have had one dear
brother—one of my father's family, with whom I
have often taken sweet counsel. Where is he
now?  Incarcerated in prison—like a felon con-
fined within grated bars, and clad in a felon's suit.
What has he done? He has held sacred and in-
violate all constitutional laws of our country, and
the unconstitutional one he has fully obeyed.
Then why in prison? Persecution has driven
him there. The highest judicial court in these so
called United States—the court of last resort, to
which he appealed, acknowledged its imbecility—
it is powerless in melting out justice to the Latter-
day Saints, and my brother has no alternative.
	Under the circumstances which now surround
us, the sable drapery—the insignia of mourning
becomes the occasion."
	Singing, "Beautiful Day" by the children. The
Articles of Faith of the Latter-day Saints
were then recited by forty-two boys and girls; Ad-
dress by Elder B. H. Roberts,

"DIFFERENCE BETWEEN LIBERTY AND 
BONDAGE."

My Brethren and Sisters:
	We have met on this occasion to bear witness
to the world that we hold in sacred remembrance
the entrance of the Pioneers into this region.
	The story of that very remarkable journey of
the pioneers across those dreary plains between
the eastern base of the Rocky Mountains and the
Mississippi river, together with the arrival of the
Pioneers in these mountains and the results grow-
ing out of their labors have already been related
by a son of one of that noble few who took part
in laying the foundation of this commonwealth in
this valley, a thousand miles and more from the
frontier of the United States. That story was
briefly but eloquently told.
	It has been my fortune to travel con-
siderably through a number of the
United States, and invariably have I
noticed that the old settlers, the Pioneers, were
held in very high esteem by communities that
grew up around the district of country where they
first settled. It is eminently proper that the
pioneers of any land should be held in honor, for
I know of no labor that is more noble in its
character than that which is performed by those
brave men who go out into the wilderness, erect
their rude cabins, break up the virgin soil, and
who say to the elements by which they are sur-
rounded, "Yield me up a livelihood; under God I
am king here!" Their self-denial in leaving the
luxuries of civilization for the toils and hsrdships
of pioneer life should knit them to our hearts in
bands of steel. If the doctrine that Socrates enun-
ciated is true, that "he who causes two spears
of grass to grow where only one grew before," is
a benefactor of mankind, how much more are
these pioneers benefactors of mankind, who laid
the foundation of States and empires, and made
it possible for the crowded communities of the
East to find homes in God's sunshine, where
health and plenty and peace crown the labors of
their hands.

[Column 2]
	Humble their lot; yet theirs the race
		When Liberty sent forth her cry,
	Who thronged in conflict's deadliest place.
		To fight—to bleed—to die!
	Who cumbered Bunker's heights of red,
		By hope through weary years were led,
	And witnessed Yorktown's sun
		Blaze on a nations' banner's spread
	A nation's freedom won—
	My friends, they were pioneers as well as pa-
triots.
	Utah in the past has not been found wanting in
paying honor to her pioneers. As the great wheel 
of time has brought to us the anniversary of the
entrance of our Pioneers into this valley, we have
welcomed it with praise and thanksgiving to the
Giver of all good; with the roar of cannon, with
songs of joy, and every demonstration of gladness.
The exercises of to-day however are of a different
character from those that have been customary
in the past. The music is solemn, the drum is
muffled, and in the decorations of this hall are
the emblems of mourning. Why is that? Be-
cause, forsooth, in this land whose prosperity was
founded by the toil and labors of the Pioneers,
we find the silver haired men that used to crown
these platforms are not with us. They are driven 
from the homes that they builded by their own
toil, they are absent from the families that they
love.  What for?  The crimes they have com-
mitted?  No; but you read why it is in the motto
that is printed upon that arch (pointing to an arch
over the stand): "Exiled for conscience' sake."
It is written elsewhere too, (indicating another
motto on the stand): "Those not here are in
jeaopardy, in prison and in foreign lands, because
they prefer to obey God rather than man." (In-
dicating another): "Those who are absent choose
to be wanderers in their own land, in preference
to being the victims of those who have selected
them for their ruin." These mottoes all tell us
the reason why the Pioneers are absent from us;
and under these circmstances, would it be fitting
for us to celebrate Pioneers' Day as we usually do,
with the Pioneers absent—in exile? Nay, we
would rather have around us the emblems of
mourning, because of the injustice that has been
heaped upon their devoted hands. We prefer to
place ourselves in harmony with the divine injunc-
tion, "Weep with those who have cause to weep,
and rejoice with those who have cause to re-
joice;" and, when the clouds have been swept
away, as they will be, when our silvery-haired
pioneers shall be able to take their place in our 
midst for one I feel like saying then, and not till
then, shall the voice of rejoicing be heard on
Pioneer Day.
	Let us pause for a few moments just to enquire
what our enemies are trying to accomplish. These
pioneers in years past married our mothers; and,
under God's law, in the holy bonds of matrimony,
they begot the children that now throng this vast
hall. Our enemies demand that the wives that
they then took shall be banished from the house-
holds of these men. They demand that they
shall be degraded from the honored station of
wifehood; that a brand of infamy shall be placed
upon their offspring, and they nobly refuse to ac-
cept such terms of accommodation as these. They
say to those who desire them to yield, that this is
part of their religion. The answer comes from
our enemies that it is not religion—it is a crime.
We ask, who gives them authority to step between
this people and their God, and dictate to them
what shall be their religion. If it is not theirs, it
is ours; nevertheless, we propose to be true to
our fathers and our mothers.
	Let our enemies look over the history of the
past. Surely they have read history to little profit
if by force they hope to crush out the religious
sentiments and convictions of the human heart.
Why, during the reign of Mary, Queen of Eng-
land, the daughter of Henry the Eighth by his
wife Catherine, you remember a persecution was

[Column 3]
waged against the Protestants in her kingdom, and
during the five years of her reign 277 were tied to
the stake and burned to death. Fifty-five of these
were women; four of them were children. But
did this awful persecution crush out the convic-
tions of religion in the hearts of those people?
No. In spite of the faggot and the flame, their 
faith rose triumphant over all the persecutions,
and they established their religious system of
worship which led to the granting of religious
liberty to all English subjects, and we in America
have inherited the fruits of their achievement.
With this lesson of history before them, can our
enemies hope to crush the conviction of our
hearts? With a united voice we tell them no;
they can not; it will not be done.
	Here will we hold: We love the institutions of
this great Republic, and hold them dear; we be-
lieve it to be our destiny yet to rescue that instru-
ment, the Constitution, from the hands of those
who would destroy it. We will remain true to
those principles that have been bequeathed to us
by the fathers of the Republic. But we will not
surrender the convictions of our hearts, or be un-
true to our parents, or untrue to our God—we re-
fuse to make that sacrifice; and, as that motto
reads (pointing to the motto) "Under the Ever-
lasting Covenant, God must and will be glorified."
	(The S. S. children repeated in concert the fol-
lowing prayer:
	Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be Thy
name. We, the children of Thy people, call upon
Thee in solemn prayer. To-day we celebrate the
advent of the Pioneers into this valley. We ac-
knowledge Thy hand in leading them thither. We
praise Thee for the changes that have been
wrought since their coming. The wilderness has
been turned into fruitful fields; waters have sprung
forth in the desert; and orchards and gardens and
pleasant homes through Thy blessing upon honest
toil, now beautify the land which was then a bar-
ren waste. Plenty smiles on every hand and
peace flows like a gentle stream. Schools and
assembly halls, tabernacles and temples have been
reared for our benefit, and the voice of inspiration 
has guided us in the path of light and life. We
thank Thee for all thy mercies; for Prophets and
Apostles, for revelations and counsels, for parents
and teachers, for thy Holy Spirit, for gifts and 
blessings without number. Yet, Oh Lord, we
mourn the absence of our leaders. Because of
ignorance and iniquity Thy righteous laws are op-
posed, and those who proclaim them by Thine
authority are shut up in prison or driven into exile.
We pray for their deliverance. Fond hearts are 
filled with sadness, the places of loving husbands
and fathers are vacant. We beseech Thee to com-
fort and bless them and all who suffer for the
truth's sake. May the trials through which Thy
people are passing tend to purify Zion, divide the 
righteous from the wicked, hold up the standard
of the Gospel to the world and glorify Thy Name
in the earth. Have mercy upon those who bring
trouble upon Thy people, that they may see their
errors and repent. But may their wicked schemes
fall and their wrath be made to praise Thee. Help
us to be good and true, to walk in the path of the
just, to follow the footsteps of our faithful parents
and to grow up in purity and in honor before Thee.
Bless the Pioneers and their posterity for ever.
Soften the hearts of the rulers of this nation, that
they may do justice to Thy people. Let Thy light
shine! Come to the help of Thy Zion! Glorify
Thy name in the triumph of Thy truth in all the
world! Prepare us for every trial! Give us power
over all evil! We worship and adore Thee as
our Father, our King, and our God. We conse-
crate our lives to Thy service forever, and ask all
and dedicate all to Thee in the name of Jesus
Christ, Thy Son, our Redeemer. Amen.)
	The Tabernacle choir rendered the part song,
"Now pray we Deseret."
	Sentiment—Jno. C. Cutler, Presidents, Apos-


tles, High Priests, Seventies, Elders and Bishops
Pioneers, in laying the foundation of a great com-
monwealth, and in rearing the glorious fabric of
civil and religious liberty, which has made Utah
the glory of our common country, ye are absent 
from us on the anniversary of this memorable day, 
not for wrongs done to God or man, but because
your virtues contrast so resplendently with the
baseness of the conduct of those who persecute 
you. Ye stand as a living rebuke to the wicked-
ness of this generation. No wonder, then, that
men in power would destroy  you or immure you
from the light of day in prisons and penitentiaries.
We are thankful to our God for giving us such 
leaders, and we ask Him for strength and courage
to emulate your glorious examples. 
	Music by S. S. Union Band, "Nearer, my God,
to Thee," Song by the children, "Hope of
Israel." Music, Beesley's Band, "Dead March 
in Saul." Benediction by Bishop L. D. Young.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

MARICOPA STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Maricopa Stake convened in the
Society Hall, Mesa City, June 17th, 1886, at
1 p.m., Coun. Susan Savage presiding. There
were present a majority of the officers of the
Stake, also a number of the brethren.
	After the usual opening exercises of singing
and prayer, the minutes of the March Confer-
ence were read and accepted. The reports
from the different branches were very favorable,
all being represented with the exception of
Tempe, Coun. Adelade Allen representing the
Mesa Ward, Prest. Lizzie McDonald the Lehi
Ward, and Prest. Ann Klienman, the Almy
Ward.
	A number of the sisters were then called
upon, who spoke briefly, rejoicing in the glori-
ous work we are engaged in, and expressing a
desire to remain faithful to all the principles
of the Gospel.
	Coun. Susan Savage spoke of the various
duties required at our hands to retain a name
and standing with the Saints of the Most High.
Spoke in a forcible manner of the necessity of
complying with the word of wisdom, quoting
from the revelation, showing that it was
adapted to the capacity of all who may or can
be called Saints. "Let us obey these laws, that
we may be enabled to rebuke the power of the
destroyer when he visits our households, for
without we do there is no promise." Gave some
good instructions in regard to the rearing of
children
	Bro. Charles Robson said, "Sister Savage
has preached us a good sermon on the Word of
Wisdom;" felt to bear testimony to its truth-
fulness, also the benefits to be derived from a
faithful observance of it. "The Lord has
warned us, and unless we heed the warnings we
shall have to suffer the consequences." Thought
the sisters were doing a good work. You should
counsel and advise with each other, and use an
influence for good over your husbands and
children." Felt to rejoice in the integrity
shown by our brethren, who were being perse-
cuted for their religion, choosing rather to
suffer bonds and imprisonment than to forsake
one principle of their holy religion.
	Bro. James Allen and A. F. Stewart followed
with encouraging remarks, endorsing the in-
structions which had been given by the brethren
and sisters; felt that the spirit of the Lord had
been poured out in rich abundance.
	After a few remarks by Coun. Savage, con-
ference adjourned for three months. Singing,
"God moves in a mysterious way." Benedic-
tion by C. I. Robson.
		SARAH M. POMEROY, Sec.

[Column 2]

BEAR LAKE SRAKE.

	Minutes of Y. L. conference of Bear Lake
Stake, held in St. Charles, Idaho, July 18th, 1886,
at 10 a.m., Prest M. E. Pugmire presiding.
Singing, "Thou dear, redeeming, dying Lamb."
Opening prayer by Bishop Hunt. Singing,
"All hail the glorious day. The Roll was
called, showing a fair representation. Minutes
of previous conference read and approved.
	Prest. Pugmire then called for verbal re-
ports, and the following associations were re-
presented: St. Charles, Sarah A. Allred;
Garden City, Amy E. Cook; Lake Town, Mrs.
Willis; Randolph, Elizabeth South; Blooming-
ton, Mary Patterson; Montpelier, Bianca Os-
borne; Woodruff, Paris 1st Ward, Paris 2nd
Ward, and Ovid not represented. The statisti-
cal and financial report for six months, end-
ing June 30th, 1886, was read showing an in-
crease of members and a fair condition of
finances.
	Coun. Amy E. Cook. Spoke encourag-
ingly, laying before them the duties and
responsibilities that rest upon each and every
member, in order to advance the association
they belong to. Admonished the sisters to
live so that they could accept every principle
advanced, for we were not taught anything but
that which was pure, elevating, and calculated
to make us good and wise. The opposition
with which we were contending would prove
who would bear the cross and wear the crown;
that a life of integrity, faith and good works
will entitle them to. We should be kind when
we felt to rebuke, and not resort to coercive
measures.
	Bro. Folstead then addressed the conference,
taking for his text, "Was woman's mission in-
ferior to man's?" showing the responsibility
that rests upon the mother, and the necessity
of the proper exercise of that authority which
a mother should wield in her family; as there
was no position on earth more important than
that of motherhood, was she fulfilling her duty
as the layer of the foundation stone of the great
temple of humanity? She should be good,
wise and learned, for they are the first teachers
of the young, and should be a perfect example
of honesty, uprightness and virtue, as any little
dereliction from the straight line of truth will
be copied. "Try to exercise a spirit of for-
bearance however tedious the enquiries may
seem, and teach them how to become good
housekeepers and desirable companions in life,
and that virtue is above prize.
	Sister L. M. Rich was much impressed with
the timely remarks of the speaker, who had
preceeded her, and hoped they would make
a lasting impression; thought too much import-
ance could not be attached to the subject laid
before us. Several cases had come under her
observation while in Salt Lake City, not long
since, where girls, through contaminating in-
fluences and the machinations of evil and de-
signing men, had been brought to dishonor and
shame. Thought that a calico dress and a
pure heart free from guile was far preferable
to the finest apparel, gotten at the sacrifice of
virtue and honor; and also they realize when
too late, and would give all to be back among
friends and associates of the past. "We should
seek each day for the Spirit of God to dictate
our movements, and that will prove a shield
and protection at all times." Felt to thank
our Heavenly Father for the peaceable surround-
ings and the blessings we are daily recipients
of.
	Singing, "Blessed are the people," etc.
Benediction by Vincent Pugmire.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference was held in the
14th Ward Hall, June 25th, 1886. On the
stand were Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Mrs. B.

[Column 3]

W. Smith, Mrs. E. S. Taylor and the Secretary,
Mrs. E. Howard. After singing and prayer
and roll called, minutes of the last conference
were read and accepted. First Ward reported
by Prest. Steele; Second, Coun. McGregor;
Third, Coun. Smith; Sixth, Prest. Fullmer;
Seventh, Coun. Woodbury; Nineth, Prest. S.
E. Groo; Tenth, Coun. Harrison; Eleventh,
Prest. McMaster; Twelfth, Prest. Druce;
Thirteenth, Coun. L. A. Wells; Fourteenth,
Coun. M. W. Wilcox; Fifteenth, Coun. R.
Jones; Sixteenth, Prest. Reid; Seventeenth,
Prest. B. W. Smith; Nineteenth, Coun. Neal;
Twentieth, Coun. Barton; Twenty-first, Coun.
Davis; Hot Springs, Prest. Fulsom; Big Cot-
tonwood, Prest. Howard; South Jordan, Prest.
Holt; Brighton, Prest. Hazon; Riverton, a
Coun.; Sandy, Coun. Wilson; Granger, Prest.
Porter.
	Prest. Horne made some closing remasks.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Mrs. B.
W. Smith.
	Afternoon session: After the opening exer-
cises, Prest. Horne addressed the sisters upon
their duties in the Society, and the care and
training of children, observing the Sabbath
day, and spoke upon the storing of grain for
a day of famine.
	Mrs. Mary S. Clark, of Farmington, spoke
upon our spiritual needs, and her disapproval
of the Saints following after the fashions of
Babylon, the power of the evil one, the neces-
sity of obeying the commandments of God,
also upon the work in the Temples for the
living and the dead.
	Mrs. Presendia L. Kimball made a very im-
pressive speech, in which she spoke upon
charity and humility, the comforting of others,
and exhorted the daughters of Zion not to
follow after the fashions of Babylon, and to
attend the meetings, partake of the sacra-
ment, etc.
	Dr. Ferguson said, "Our enemies are trying
to deprive us of the blessings we now enjoy;
the time has come when we will have to be a
light unto ourselves; our leaders are away from
us; and the time may come when we will have
no one to counsel with, therefore we should
use the privileges we have to good advantage.
Here our enemies have nothing else to do but
think of how they can pervert the laws to our
detriment, but in the world we are looked upon
as the down-trodden women of Utah.	*	*
In Washington there is immense wealth and
grandeur, and there is extreme poverty and
distress; 7000 poor are languishingly in want
of the comforts of life.	*	*	*	*
	Mrs. B. W. Smith spoke of the memberships
now due to the Deseret Hospital, and also re-
ferred to the Society donations, also earnestly
advised the sisters in the Relief Society to look
after the poor, the needy and the suffering,
that they might not come under condemnation
by neglecting their duty to them.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor said, "Those who preside
over the different branches are absolutely re-
quired to report at our conferences, by either
the president, a counselor, teacher or member;
some one will have to see to this duty. We
have many energetic sisters in the Relief So-
ciety, and we are required to represent our-
selves; we will see the day when we will be
glad that our names were enrolled in the So-
ciety; we ought to be interested in the Y. L.
M. I. A., visit the meetings and help the young
girls in their duties, and encourage them by
our presence."
	Prest. Horne thought we should have two
days for meetings, "for we do want more
spiritual food for our improvement. We in-
tend now to hold our conference on Thursday,
so the Y. L. can hold theirs on Friday and the
Primary on Saturday." She spoke of her call
upon Gov. West; said he listened to her polite-
ly; said, "We explained to him our brethren
could not break their covenants. He seemed


quite interested when we told him our posi-
tion. Our enemies are accomplishing the pur-
poses of God; let us stand to what we profess;
we want to be on the Lord's side." Hoped we
might have the Spirit of God in our homes.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Glory to God on high," etc. Bene-
diction by Mrs. Elizabeth Howard.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MISCELLANEOUS.

	Helen Hunt Jackson always declared she
dreamed her poems—did not compose them
herself.
	Every duty well done adds to the moral and
spiritual stature. Each opportunity eagerly
grasped and used is the key to larger privil-
eges.
	We celebrate nobler obsequies to those we
love by drying the tears of others than by
shedding our own; and the fairest funeral
wreath we can hang on their tomb is not so
fair as a fruit-offering of good deeds.
	No girl, whether from the lowest or the high-
est position, is fit to become a wife, a mistress
of the home, who has not been carefully edu
cated in all the accomplishments and details of-
the kitchen.
	The effect on the health of women produced
by sixteen hours per day of cooking, dish-
washing, sewing, sweeping, baby-tending, and
the numerous other labors that constitute the
sum and substance of housekeeping has never
disturbed the digestion or conscience of men.
They are concerned about the health of those 
women only who enter remunerative occupa-
tions for "higher education."—Indianapolis
Sentinel.
	Courtesy is due to others.  It is helpful to
others. Treat even a base man with respect,
and he will make at least one desperate effort
to be respectable. Courtesy is an appeal to
the nobler and better nature of others to
which that nature responds. It is due to our-
selves. It is the crowning grace of culture,
the stamp of perfection upon character, the
badge of the perfect gentleman, the fragrance
of the flower of womanhood when full blown.
	Most girls, almost from babyhood, if per-
mitted to be with their mothers in the kitchen,
love to see the work done, particularly the
cooking; and nothing delights them more than
to be allowed to attempt to make some simple
article themselves. This early play will not 
be forgotten. Girls that grow up under such
training or indulgence will have no fear of the
real care when it comes to them as a duty.
	Avoid the scolding tone. A tired mother
may find it hard to do this; but it is she who
will get most good by observing the rule. The 
tone of scolding tells upon the throat, just
where a woman who is not over-strong is apt to
feel the ache of extreme fatigue. The child-
ren, too, who are great imitators, will be sure
to catch the scolding tone, and will talk to 
their dolls, to one another, and by-and-by to
their own children, very much as their own
mothers are now talking to them.
	Never let your honest conviction be laughed
down. You can no more exercise your reason
if you live in constant dread of ridicule than
you can enjoy life if you live in constant fear
of death. If you think it right to differ from
the times, and make a point of morals, do it—
not for insolence, but seriously and gravely, as
if a man carried a big soul of his own in his
bosom, and did not wait till it was breathed
into him by the breath of fashion. Be true to
your conviction, and in the end you will not
only be respected by the world, but have the
approval of your conscience.

[Column 2]
	In Garfield County, Nebraska, there are
377 single men and only 68 unmarried
women.
	Miss Gladstone writes in a letter to a friend:
"Papa regrets the results of the elections, of
course, but he is not at all disconcerted. He
is quite happy, and is at this moment reading
'Dante' under a tree."


Patents have been granted to women, during
the week ending July 6, 1886, as follows:
	Elizabeth J. Cole, Milwaukee, Wis. Frame
for making rugs.
	Susan O. Grover, Granville, Ohio, Coffin at-
tachment.
	Lizzie McKeogh, Pittsburg, Pa., Foot-pad
for machine treadles.
	Ida H. Westgate, Worcester, Mass., Dress-
protector and stiffener.


[Column 1]
	SPECIAL NOTICE. 

	Secretaries of the Relief Society of Salt
Lake Stake are particularly requested to send
in their reports to the Stake Secretary, Eliza-
beth Howard, by the first of September. Re-
ports sent in after that date will be useless. 
Address, Elizabeth Howard, 60 East 4th South
St., Salt Lake City, Utah. By order, 
	MRS. M. ISABELLA HORNE, 
	President. 

[Column 2]
F. AUERBACH & BRO. 
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] CALL AND EXAMINE. 

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[Drawing of hand pointed to text] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrate LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY. 

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868. 

Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries 
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 

[Drawing of hand pointed to text] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west. 
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt. 

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS. 
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	To the memory of Mary Bronson, Secretary of the Re-
lief Society of Wasatch Stake, who departed this life on
the 9th of February, 1886.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His divine providence
has called away our beloved sister, Mary Bronson, after a 
long life of usefulness spent in His kingdom here upon the
earth.
	Resolved, That while we feel to bow to His most holy
will, we miss our sister in our association, and her wise,
motherly counsel in our circle of loved ones.
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Relief Society of
Wasatch Stake, will hold her memory sacred, and strive in
our lives to follow her example, who was always ready
to perform her duty as Secretary in this stake.
	Resolved, also, That we tender our heartfelt sympathy to
the bereaved husband and family in the loss of a kind and
affectionate wife and mother.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be placed
upon record, a copy sent to the bereaved family and to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
					EMMA BROWN, President.
					SARAH ALEXANDER,
					MARY DAYBELL, Counselors.


OBITUARY.

	Christena Swenson Funk was born July 10th, 1834, in 
Sweden; joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in Copenhagen, Denmark, 1853; emigrated to Utah
in 1863.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolved, That we, the members of the Relief Society of
Newton, Cache Valley Stake of Zion; do hereby pay our
humble tribute of love and esteem to the memory of Sister
Christena Swenson Funk, who was called from our associa-
tion by death on the 12th of May, 1886.
	Through our acquaintance was numbered by months
rather than years, a love and respect has been engendered
that is seldom acquired through an intercourse of many
years.
	Sister Funk was a quiet and unassuming neighbor and a
true Saint. She labored energetically and perseveringly
as a teacher in the Relief Society, where her name was en-
rolled, in connection with ours, for about eighteen months.
	The terrible cancer had already seized its victim when
she first came into our midst, which she did to accompany
her husband in an act of duty to God; he, Bro. Funk, hav-
ing been called to the Bishopric of Newton.


Her malady rapidly, but surely increased in severity, un-
til our dear sister was confined to her bed, and for some 
six months her sufferings were very agonizing.  Her great-
est regret seemed to be that she was curtailed in her labors
of love among her sisters, and in the performance of her
household duties.  In the midst of all she humbly acknowl-
edged the dealings of an alwise Providence.
	Resolved, also, That we extend to her loving husband,
our worthy Bishop, as also to the other members of the
family circle, where sorrow's dart hath rudely pierced, our
heart-felt sympathies.
	And we pray that their stricken hearts may be solaced in
their hour of affliction by the Holy Comforter.

			SUSAN BARBER President,
			ELIZABETH GRIFFIN, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

