VOL. 15.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1887.			No. 22.


MY KATE.

She was not pretty as women I know,
And yet all your best made of sunshine and snow
Drop to shade, melt to nought in the long-trodden ways,
While she's still remembered on warm and cold days—
					My Kate.

Her air had a meaning, her movements a grace;
You turned from the fairest to gaze on her face:
And when you had once seen her forehead and mouth,
You saw as distinctly her soul and her truth—
					My Kate.

Such a blue inner light from her eyelids outbroke,
You looked at her silence and fancied she spoke;
When she did, so peculiar and soft was the tone,
The loudest spoke also, you heard her alone—
					My Kate.

I doubt if she said to you much that could act
As a thought or suggestion; she did not attract
In the sense of the brilliant or wise; I infer
'Twas her thinking of others, made you think of her—
					My Kate.

She never found fault with you, never implied
Your wrong by her right, and yet men at her side
Grew nobler, girls purer, as through the whole town
The children were gladder that pulled at her gown—
					My Kate.

None knelt at her feet confessed lovers in thrall;
They knelt more to God than they used, that was all;
If you praised her as charming, some asked what you
	meant,
But the charm of her presence was felt when she went—
					My Kate.

The weak and the gentle, the ribald and rude,
She took as she found them, and did them all good;
It always was so with her—see, what you have!
She has made the grass greener even here, with her grave—
					My Kate.

My dear one!—when thou wert alive with the rest,
I held thee the sweetest and loved thee the best:
And now thou art dead, shall I not take thy part
As thy smiles used to do for thyself; my sweet Heart—
					My Kate.
			ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING.


[Column 1]

﻿TO THE PEOPLE'S PARTY.

	When the members of the Territorial Cen-
tral Committee of the People's Party assembled
in the City Hall at 3 o'clock, Monday, April
4th, 1887, the sub-committee, composed of
Messrs. Junius F. Wells, John T. Caine, S. R.
Thurman, Thomas D. Dee and Alma Eldredge,
appointed to prepare an address to the voters,
reported the following, which, after some dis-
cussion, was unanimously adopted and signed
by the members present:	

ADDRESS TO THE PEOPLE'S PARTY OF THE
TERRITORY OF UTAH.

	In view of the recent congressional legisla-
tion, in relation to the right to vote, act as
jurors and hold office in the Territory, we feel
it incumbent upon us, as representatives of the
People's Party, to direct attention to some of
the salient points of the new law, point out
the restrictions which it imposes and awaken
your interest in the maintenance of the rights
and privileges of citizenship which are yet left
you. As to voters, the most cruel and sweep-
ing provision of the law is that which takes
the electoral franchise from the women of the
Territory. Under its provisions no woman will
be permitted to register or vote. As to male
voters of the People's Party, there is no pro-

[Column 2]

vision in the law which need necessarily re-
duce their numbers. The oath prescribed
therein, while in the nature of a test oath and
repugnant to the spirit of liberty and the
genius of free government, which every citizen
should cherish, is not regarded as a test of
faith or religious belief. The authors and
strongest advocates of the bill in Congress
maintained that it, in no sense, abridged the
right of conscience or curtailed freedom of
belief. Accept that interpretation of this
oath, and its whole intent and scope are to
prohibit actual violators of the law from vot-
ing, acting as jurors or holding office.
	The questions that intending voters need,
therefore, ask themselves are these: Are we
guilty of the crimes in said act? or,have we the
present intention of committing those crimes,
or of aiding, abetting, counseling or advising
any other person to commit them? Male per-
sons who can answer these questions in the
negative can qualify under the existing laws
as voters and office-holders: Some may not
understand fully the import of the words, "aid,
abet, counsel or advise." "Aid or abet" is a
phrase having a well-defined legal signification.
It means to knowingly assist the principal in
the commission of an unlawful act. As to
counseling and advising, no man in the com-
munity is expected to counsel or advise any
person to commit crime.
	All who can subscribe to the above, duty
calls to wakefulness and activity. The politi-
cal control of the Territory, of the counties
and the cities, still remains in the hands of the
People's Party, if you employ the power which
is left you. But there must be no backsliding
nor indifference among you. You should not
fail to exercise your rights and defend them.
It is not a time to indulge in "bogus" senti-
ment, but it is a time when every man, who
can do so, should feel it his first and most
sacred duty to exercise the right to preserve
himself and his people from political bondage.
Your ranks, depleted by an important element
—the women voters—can be closed up and
strengthened if every man who is eligible regis-
ters and votes.
	Your attention is called to the communica-
tion of the United States Commissioners di-
rected to the registrars of election (a copy of
which is enclosed) and to the interpretation of
the law contained therein. If their sugges-
tions shall be observed by those to whom they
are directed, fair treatment may be expected at
the registration and polls, and victory will
crown your efforts as heretofore. Should there
be a disposition on the part of any to curtail
you in the exercise of your rights and privi-
leges as herein defined, you should repel any
such effort. Do not let any one mislead or dis-
courage you in the performance of your duty
at the present time. You are the majority of
the people of this Territory. Your labors
have made it habitable. Your representatives
have governed and controled it, in your inter-
ests, faithfully since 1847. They have been
true to the trust imposed in them. They are
entitled to your confidence and support. Should
a change in the political control of this Terri-
tory occur, the disaster which it involves is be-
yond conception. In those districts where
such a fatality has overtaken the people, even
for a short time, they have been made to suffer
untold outrages at the hands of those who
usurped office and exercised power among
them. These things should be remembered by

[Column 3]

the voters of the People's Party, and they
should incite every man to the performance of
his duty.
	Let it not be said that any member of the
People's Party neglected his opportunity. But
let every one, from the commencement of the
registration to the day of election, keep care-
fully in mind the course that he should pursue,
attending to every formality to maintain his
political status and exercise his rights and duties
of citizenship.
	The following are the names of the members
of the committee in attendance: George
W. Thatcher, Cache County; Thomas F.
Rouche, Davis County; F. W. Chappell, Juab
County; James R. Stewart, Morgan County;
Wm. H. Lee, Rich County; John Sharp, John
T. Caine, John R. Winder, Angus M. Cannon,
Feramorz Little, Elias A. Smith and Junius
F. Wells, Salt Lake County; Alma Eldredge,
Summit County; H. S. Gowans, Tooele County;
W. N. Dusenberry, S. R. Thurman and A. O.
Smoot, Jr., Utah County; L. W. Shurtliff and
Thomas D Dee, Weber County; and E. G.
Woolley, Washington Couuty.
	The officers are: Chairman, Hon. John
Sharp; Vice-Chairman, Col. J. R. Winder;
Secretary, Judge E. A. Smith; Corresponding
Secretary, Junius F. Wells, Esq.; Executive
Committee; John Sharp, J. R. Winder, J. F.
Wells, E. A. Smith, F. Little, L. W. Shurtliff,
H. S. Gowans, W. F. Dusenberry and T. F.
Rouche.
	Messrs. E. G. Woolley, of Washington
County, and R. W. Heybourne, of Iron County,
were elected members of the committee, vice
J. M. McFarlane and Edward Dalton, who
have removed from the Territory.
	Before the adjournment of the Central Com-
mittee the executive committee were instructed
to prepare suggestions for the better organiza-
tion of the People's Party in the precincts, and
to formulate a circular for the instruction of
voters.


CORRESPONDENCE

		KIRTLAND, Ohio, April 3rd, 1887.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	If the intrusion upon the literary domain of
the opposite sex calls for an apology, I can
offer two reasons for the same. First, I am
engaged in the same great cause as your able
little journal—the dissemination of truth.
Second, I have very near relatives and friends
belonging to that sex, one of whom took a
prominent part in bringing me into the world,
therefore, I feel under obligations to them.  If
it be considered a compliment, it is certainly
merited, for truly, in my missionary travels I
have seen double the number of copies of the
EXPONENT for free distribution than of any
other sheet published in the interest of Zion,
and it is second to none in its efficacy as a pro-
mulgator of truth. I confess that until I came
on my mission, having never closely perused
the EXPONENT, I had far underestimated its
value in this regard.  But no doubt your sex
are accustomed to this treatment at the hands
of all who undertake to place a limit to their
importance as factors in the sum of human ex-
istence.  For instance, consider the obtuse-
ness of Pharoah's judgment, when, to impede
the dangerous increase of Israel, he ordered
every male child drowned. After eighty years of
this unavailing cruelty, we find a nation where-


in the females outnumbered the males about
seven to one, and the offspring of these much
married fathers were of a quality so superior
to their progenitors, that they witnessed the 
triumphant conquest of the promised land.
Their  marriage relations produced such happy
results, that the poet prophet (Isaiah)
broadly hints that the like condition will be
repeated in the latter days, by a marked scarcity
of the masculine gender.  If this foolish king,
whose name has become a synonym for tyranny,
had changed the drowning process to the other
sex he might have accomplished his purpose.
As it was, history records his miserable failure,
and traces its cause to a misconception of the 
true source of increase.
	The halo which surrounds the early scenes
of Church history so closely interwoven with
the little village from which I write, may cause 
a few lines to be read with interest.
	Appointed by the president of the Penn. Con-
ference to labor a few weeks in this vicinity, I 
arrived here the 10th ult.  Through the kind-
ness of the directors of the town hall I ob-
tained leave to hold three meetings therein,
which I did, bearing testimony with all the
strength God has given me to the divinity of
the Latter-day work as inaugurated by Joseph
Smith, and as carried on by his divinely ap-
 pointed successors, Brigham Young and John
Taylor.  The "Reorganized" have a small 
branch here, and their representatives chal-
lenged me to affirm the question, "Does the
Bible teach and endorse the practice of poly-
gamy?" to which I assented.
	The discussion lasted two evenings, each of
us having two speeches of thirty minutes each
for each evening.  They honored me with their
ablest representative for an opponent, whose
chief forte was as a debater, and who, though
well qualified for brow-beating, was fair and
reasonably courteous, and abstained from the
low, abusive, false accusations so often resorted
to by our enemies of this class.
	He denied that God had ever justified its
practice, or that the Mosaic law had ever sup-
posed or regulated it.  But when confronted 
with the numerous evidences of God's special
favors to Abraham, Jacob and others, and
such passages as Deut. xxi, 15, and xxv, 5,
Ex. xxi, 10, and xxii, 16, with many others of 
like import it was too much even for the 
nimble acrobatic feats of the Scripture twisting
"Reorganized," and he virtually acknowledged
the point.  He then referred to the New Testa-
ment, where, in speaking of the law as a whole
as a "schoolmaster" for the higher law, he 
said, "How could the law justify polygamy
when the book condemns the law?"  He 
claimed the words of the Savior, where he de-
nounces "putting away," and says of the mar-
ried couple, "they twain shall be one flesh,"
were condemnatory of the practice.  I showed 
from Romans, vii, 3, that while a woman is
forbidden to marry another while her husband
lives, the husband is not thus forbidden, and
that they twain may refer to a man and his
second wife, as well as the first, was shown
from 1 Cor., vi, 16.  I then referred to the last
chapters of Judges and the 25th of Numbers,
to show the high standard of morality required
by the Almighty of His people under the "im-
perfect" law.
	My friend now considered it his turn to
rush to the defense of modern methods, and
this valiant champion of morality, whose sensi-
tive olfactories took such Pecksniffian offense
at the loose morality of the ancient Patriarchs
who held converse with Deity, after he had
labored near one and a half hours to show that
Abraham, Jacob and David were bad, sinful
men, after he had lobbied in Washington for the
enactment of oppressive laws for the punish-
ment of the compeers of the maligned patri-
archs for practicing Biblical doctrine, rushed
to the defense of the assailed purity of nine-
teenth century "civilization," and spent much

[Column 2]
of his remaining time in explaining away and
palliating the slight ills that obtains under the
regime of apostate Christianity, and in telling
humorous manufactured stories of married life
in Utah, too foolish to be wicked.
	It surprised me to find the amount of evi-
dence existing to prove that Joseph the Seer
was the pioneer in the practice of plural mar-
riage right here under the very noses of those
who so stiffly deny the fact.  One intelligent 
lady said to me, "The 'Reorganized' Church
made a mistake in the beginning.  If they
had taken the stand simply that polygamy was
wrong, no matter who the author was, they
might appear consistent.  I have evidence 
enough in my possession to convince any one,
but the 'Reorganized' Church do not ask me
for it."   It does not suit them, probably.
Every one in this vicinity, familiar with
Church history, say it was well understood here
that he taught this in the last days of his
eventful life. One eccentric old lady, a devoted 
member of their church, said, "I remember, as
yesterday, when an Elder told me that Joseph
had received a new revelation, authorizing
him to seal more than one woman to a man for
eternity (this while Joseph was living, mind
you), not to live with them for this life.   It
was Brigham that added to that revelation
these words: 'Now they're ours we can do as
we like with them.'"
	Father Bond still lives, though quite feeble,
and is taken care of by his daughter.
	The village is substantially the same as
when described by an abler pen than my own,
and given to your readers in your issue of
March 15th, 1885.  The temple is being re-
paired with a view to hold conference therein,
beginning April 6.  Joseph is already in town,
and all their notables are expected.
	Wishing the EXPONENT deserved success, I
am,				Yours truly,
						    YOUNG ELDER.

			MINERSVILLE, April 12, 1887.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Saturday, the 8th of this month, was the 
sixty-ninth birthday of Sister Mary E. Light-
ner of this place.  A number of gentlemen
and ladies met at her residence and gave her
a dinner, which was highly appreciated by all.
	Before partaking of dinner, at her re-
quest we sang the hymn, "Oh, my Father." The
tables, laden with the good things of the earth,
were then surrounded with happy faces.  Sis-
ter Lightner with her brother, James H. Rol-
lins interested her group of friends with a 
review of her life.  A few lines composed for
the occasion were read, after which Elizabeth
Gilbert, Sister Lightner's aunt, who is in her
eighty-second year, made some remarks; the
closing exercises were short speeches by a num-
ber of the sisters who all wished Sister Light-
ner many happy returns of the day.  All 
seemed to enjoy themselves and I believe
we made the hearts of the widowed sisters for-
get their loneliness, at least for one day.
				Respectfully,
						ADA ROLLINS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ENTERTAINMEMT.

	The Sixth Ward Primary Association of
Logan had an entertainment on Friday even-
ing, the 11th of March, commencing at half
past seven o'clock. The object was to encourage
the children to speak correctly and cultivate
good manners, and to show the parents what
their children are capable of doing. The
programme was filled entirely by our Primary
children, and was as follows:
	Prayer by Fred Turner, Jr.; "The Welcome,"
by Maud Bowen and company; Ada Jones and
Alice Jacobson, a song, entitled, "Grandpa's


Spectacles," age eight and six years; Harry
and Mary Crowther, recitations from the
Juvenile Instructor, ages five and three years;
Hiram Thorp and John Wilson, a song, en-
titled, "Kitty Wells;" Frank Fulmer, a recita-
tion, entitled "Queer;" Eunice Jacobson, a
song, entitled, "Susan," aged three years; Bettie
Bowen, a recitation, "Rebecca Dobbs;" Bertha
Jones, a song, "Baby Darling;" "Little Wise
Heads," by Mable Barber, Ida Leishman,
Mamie Turner and Ida May Stewart, exceed-
ingly well done; "The Martyrdom of Joseph
and Hyrum," by Dorothy Hansen; Lillian
Parkinson, "Keeping His Word;" Rosella
Thorp, a song, "Little Bessie, the Drunkard's
Child;" Martha Bench, "Take Things as They
Come;" Ida Stewart, a song;  Julia Jacobson,
"The Chimney Sweep," in character; "Harry's
Bravery," by J. W. Pike, Isaac Stewart, Fred 
Turner, Nellie Bowen and Carrie Stewart;
Jane Gordon, a recitation, entitled, "Steenie,"
aged six years; Ida Leishman, a song, "The
Child's Message;" Rhoda Fulmer, a recitation,
"Mattie's Troubles;" Carrie Howard, a recita-
tion, "My Beau With the Corduroy Pants;"
Bangie Johnson, "The Wallflower;" Alice
Jacobson, a song, "Waiting for Pa;" Eunice
Jacobson, a song, "Who Will Wear my Stove-
pipe Hat?" in character, her sister, aged six
years, playing the accompaniment; Emma
Brown, "Nay, Speak no Ill;" Joseph Thorp
and company, a song, "Lady, Awake;" Georgie
Jensen, "The Washing Day;" Sophia Jensen, a 
song, "You've Been a Friend to Me;" "The
Jasper Sea" was sung by the Primary choir.
accompanied by Maud Bowen.  We were
greatly assisted by our Primary organist, Sister
Hannah Jacobson.  Ettie Smith, a song, "Ten
Thousand Miles Away;" Phoebe Downs, Cather-
ine Arnold and Ellie Ellis each a recitation;
Christine Fjeldsted, Jelina and Ada Ostlund
each a recitation, Maggie Johnson, a recitation,
"The Angels;" Adeline Jeppeson, "Thorns and 
Roses;" Sarah Larsen, a recitation; Dagmar
Christiansen, "The Prophet's Prayer;" Amelia
Christiansen, a song, "The Sailor's Song." The
evening's entertainment was concluded by
"The Sewing Bee," from one of the Primary
Books.
	Our Primary Stake President, Jane E.
Molen, and her husband were present, and we 
were sustained by our Bishop, Bro. Turner,
his Counselors, the ward generally, and quite
a number of visitors.
					EMMA PIKE, Prest.,
					MILLIE PIKE, Sec.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN. 

	Mrs. Mary Howitt has just passed her eighty-
ninth birthday, and is in excellent health. 
	Mrs. Senator Sabin, of Minnesota, having no
children of her own, has adopted a family of
nine. 
	Mrs. Florence Howe Hall, a daughter of
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, has just completed a
manual of American etiquette, entitled, "Social
Customs." 
	Mlle. Marie Deraismes is said to be the
only woman freemason in France. She is a
good speaker, a terse writer, and a strong advo-
cate of suffrage for women. 
	Miss N. B. Cummings, now the librarian of
the Department of Justice, at Washington, is
a daughter of a former justice of the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania, and is regarded as one
of the best authorities on law books in the
country. She is literally an encyclopaedia of
reports, rendering invaluable aid to the lawyers
who use the extensive library of that depart-
ment.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE BURIED FLOWER. 

In the silence of my chamber, 
	When the night is still a deep, 
And the drowsy heave of ocean 
	Mutters in its charmed sleep; 

Oft I hear the angel voices
	That have thrilled me long ago, - 
Voices of my lost companions, 
	Lying deep beneath the snow. 

Where are now the flowers we tended? 
	Withered, broken, branch and stem; 
Where are now the hopes we cherished? 
	Scattered to the winds with them. 

For ye, too, were flowers, ye dear ones! 
	Nursed in hope and raised in love, 
Looking fondly ever upward
	To the clear blue sky above; 

Smiling on the sun that cheered us, 
	Rising lightly from the rain, 
Never folding up your freshness
	Save to give it forth again: 

Never shaken save by accents
	From a tongue that was not free, 
As the modest blossom trembles
	At the wooing of the bee. 

O! 'tis sad to lie and reckon 
	All the days of faded youth, 
All the vows that we believed in, 
	All the words we spoke in truth. 

Sever'd—were it sever'd only 
	By an idle thought of strife, 
Such as time may knit together;
	Not the broken cord of life! 

O my heart! that once so truly
	Kept another's time and tune,—
Heart, that kindled in the morning 
	Look around thee in the noon! 

Where are they who gave the impulse
	To thy earliest thought and flow? 
Look across the ruined garden—
	All are withered, dropped, or low!

O! I fling my spirit backward, 
	And I pass o'er years of pain;
All I loved is rising round me, 
	All the lost returns again.

Brighter, fairer far than living, 
	With no trace of woe or pain, 
Robed in everlasting beauty, 
	Shall I see thee once again, 

By the light that never fadeth, 
	Underneath eternal skies, 
When the dawn of resurrection
	Breaks o'er deathless Paradise? 
								SELECTED.


WELCOME TO PRISONERS FOR
		CONSCIENCE’ SAKE.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Under the auspices of the Relief Society of
this place, a party was tendered to the brethren
lately arrived at their homes from the prisons
in Boise and Detroit.
	Large tables were spread, loaded with the
good things of this earth, and nearly all the
people of the ward were gathered, and partook
in the festivities as a token of love and respect
for the integrity shown by the persecuted
brethren, who would rather endure hardships
in prison than yield to any unjust measure or
interpretation of congressional enactments
binding conscience and demanding the abandon-
ment of a law and order revealed from heaven.
The brethren are enjoying their liberty in full
measure.


After dinner was over, the meeting house 
was cleared. A programme had been prepared
by and under the direction of the Y. M. M. I. 
A. and speeches by the late prisoners, inter-
spersed with music, were given. Good ad-
vice and cheering remarks were made by the
speakers. In the evening the people enjoyed
themselves in dancing, singing and music, until 
after 11 o'clock, when all went home well satis-
fied with their day. 
	Next day all the children of the ward were
similarly treated. It was a great sight to see
106 small children from four to twelve, and
some a little older, mingle in the dancing, sing-
ing, recitations and other amusements. 
	Bro. M. F. Cowley, President of the Y. M. 
M. I. A. in this Stake, was present on the occa-
sion, and with his cheerful voice and wise
counsel helped to highten the glee and merri-
ment, as well as to give substantial good coun-
sel and advice.
	The EXPONENT is ever welcome, and its con-
tents are carefully preserved. 
	Always praying for the welfare of Zion and
her inhabitants, and especially praying for the
exiled and imprisoned for conscience' sake, I 
am, as ever, 
			Yours obediently, 
					INGRID GRAHAM.


CIRCULAR.

To the Presidents of the Primary Associations
in the Oneida Stake of Zion:

DEAR SISTERS:
	Not having had the opportunity of visiting
all the Primary Associations in the Oneida
Stake through the past winter, we feel it our
duty to address a few lines to you on the sub-
ject of Primary advancement.
	The mission to which we, as officers of the
Associations, have been called is a most impor-
tant one, and should be accepted as a labor of
honor and love.
	The training and educating of the future
men and women of Zion has been committed to
our care, and this great responsibility,especially
in such an eventful day as this, demands our
most careful and considerate attention, for the
children who now compose the Primary Asso-
ciations will, in a few short years, be the repre-
sentatives of the greatest cause on earth, and
the reason of success or failure, in the battle of
life, will be followed back to the moulding of
the tender mind by the influence brought to
bear by those whose duty it was to teach and
train them in their youth.
	Presidents should, therefore, study the situa-
tion, and make their mission a reality and not
a mere name.
	Our duty does not consist in alone conducting
the meetings of the children, and then throw-
ing off all interest as to them elsewhere, but
we should seek to establish an influence among
them that will draw them to us in all our asso-
ciations together.
	Our example before them should be such as
we would be proud to have them follow, and
we should consider every act of ours a pattern
for them.
	Life and variety should be put into our
meetings, that they may be interesting and
profitable; and in order that a desire to read
and inform the mind may be created while
young, we suggest the advisability of collect-
ing a few good books, such as the "Faith Pro-
moting Series," "Juvenile Instructor" and
others of like character.
	We are very desirous that every Primary As-
sociation in the Stake should have a library of its
own, which may be obtained by a perpetual
offering of about five cents per month from
each member of the Association.
	Dear sisters, that we may know the condi-
tion of each Primary, and be enabled to make


out an accurate report for our quarterly con-
ferences, it is very necessary that we receive a
report from every ward, so please do not fail to
make out your reports as soon as possible after
receiving them, and send them in to Sister
Elizabeth Hale immediately.
	Our earnest endeavors to magnify our call-
ing will be acceptable unto the Lord, and will
most assuredly be fraught with great success.
	Praying the Lord to assist us in training the
youth of Zion, we remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel of Christ,
		LUCY M. PARKINSON,
		ELVIRA PETTY,
	Of the Presidency of the Primary Associa-
tion of the Oneida Stake.


HONOR TO WHOM HONOR IS DUE.

	A pleasant and enjoyable surprise was given 
to the Secretary of the Relief Society of Loa,
Piute Co., Sister Sarah Jane Blackburn, on
her fifty-sixth birthday, Tuesday, March 22nd,
1887, by the Relief Society and Young Ladies'
Association of Loa. About fifty persons were
present—our worthy Bishop, E. H. Blackburn,
and sons and grandchildren and friends of
long standing, who have stood the trials and
hardships of this people, and are willing to
stand more for the Gospel's sake and their own.
	At 2 o'clock the tables were loaded with
the good things of this earth, which we humbly
thanked our Heavenly Father for. Sister
Sarah was the recipient of several handsome
presents from her husband and sisters of the
Relief Society. Sister Sarah thanked the
brethren and sisters, and said it was a complete
surprise to her. Expressed her appreciation
and gratitude for their honor to her.
	There was a good spirit, and all returned
home feeling well and benefited by meeting
together to honor one so worthy, noble and
faithful.
		JULIETTE BLACKBURN.
PRIMARY PICNIC.
	A Primary picnic was held at Loa on the 25th
of March, President and Counselors present.
Met at 10 a.m.; had recitations, songs and
dialogues. A good spirit dwelt in the hearts
of the little folks. Our worthy Bishop was
present, whom we were pleased to have in our
midst. The children came with their bright,
sunny faces. Their President is always pleased
to meet with them. We then adjourned our
meeting until 2 p.m, during which time the
children played games. We were called to-
gether again, and the little girls set the tables;
there were numbered sixty children. After
dinner we all had an enjoyable time in con-
versation. Dismissed with prayer.
	All went home feeling benefited by meeting
with the children and trying to entertain and
instruct the youth of Zion in the ways of the
Lord.
		JULIETTE BLACKBURN, Prest.


Mrs. Logan gives a striking instance of the
discrimination made in the pay of government
clerks on account of sex. She says: "No lady
is allowed the same salary in the higher grade
of clerkships, no  matter how well she fills the
higher salaried desks, and many of them are 
to-day in those positions, but do not receive
the pay. As an illustration, it has happened
that in cases of illness or disability of men
clerks, their wives performed the duty of their
husbands, drawing in their name the salary as
if they had performed the work. In one case
the wife kept up her husband's desk for three
years, during his illness, receiving the $1,800
per annum, and thereby supporting the family;
but from the day of his death, though she con-
tinued the same work, her salary was nine
hundred!"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates; Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
 o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY.	APRIL 15, 1887.


[Column 1]

EXTRACTS.

FROM THE EPISTLE OF THE FIRST PRESIDENCY
READ AT THE CONFERENCE IN PROVO,
APRIL 8TH, 1887.

	The disfranchisement of all the women voters,
without cause and without even the allegation of
crime against them, is an arbitrary exercise of des-
potic power without parallel in republican history.
No reasonable excuse can be offered for such an
invasion of political rights exercised without hin-
drance for seventeen years; and the vain pretence of
the enemies of the Latter-day Saints that they
wish to rescue the women of Utah from bondage
has by this outrage upon freedom been effectually
silenced forever. Taken with other portions of
the law it betrays an attempt to pave the way for
the domination of the majority by the minority,
because the former is composed of members of
an unpopular Church. It should be the purpose
of good citizens and faithful Latter-day Saints to
maintain the liberties which are dear to every
citizen, by all legal and consistent means within
their power. And while many of the men and
women who, with Divine assistance, opened this
region to human occupation and fitted it for civil-
ized existence, are arbitrarily deprived of any per-
sonal participation in its government, it becomes
the duty as well as the privilege of those who can
do so under the operation of unjustly discriminat-
ing laws, to stand up manfully and use all dili-
gence and vigilance in the retention and preva-
lence of the local rule of the local majority. In
thus sustaining the right and assisting in the pre-
vention of wrong, they will have the blessings of
a just God and the approval of an enlightened
conscience.
	A redeeming feature of the new law is the ex-
emption of wives who are viewed as legal from
testifying against their husbands in cases arising
under the Edmunds act. This and the decision
of the Supreme Court of the United States con-
demning the segregation system, by which the ex
treme penalties imposed by law were unlawfully
multiplied upon "Mormon" defendants, are cutting
rebukes to the Utah Courts and District Attorney,
for their excesses and malice in pursuing persons
acting under the strongest religious convictions.
The relief thus afforded to many subjects of ju-
dicial persecution would doubtless be consider-
ably extended, if other extreme rulings of the
Utah Courts were reviewed by the highest tribun-
al of the land.
	As the summer months are approaching, when
open air recreations will become common, we deem
it necessary to warn the Saints, and especially our
young people, against the excesses and impro-
prieties that often attend such public entertain-
ments. In the inordinate desire to make money,
attractions are devised to draw crowds of people
together where the usual restraints that regulate
good society are greatly relaxed, to the detriment
of pure morality, and the breaking down of those
safeguards which should protect sobriety and

[Column 2]

virtue. Pleasure and relaxation which in them-
selves may be not only harmless to mind and body,
are often rendered evil in the extreme, because of
their surroundings and associations. The thought-
less and inexperienced are frequently oblivious
to the harm thus attending something in which
there is no essential wrong, and are led to look
with allowance, if not actual approval, upon things
that would shock them under other circumstances.
The indiscriminate commingling of the Saints
with persons not of their faith whose habits, his-
tory and purposes are bad or unknown to them,
is fraught with evil and to be strongly deprecated.
To expose our youth to the contaminating influ-
ence of vile men and women such as often con-
gregate in places of public amusement, where they
are thrown together in social intercourse, is more
than folly; it is wickedness. It is proper that
strangers should be treated with courtesy and re-
spect, but intimacy with them is not desirable, and
our young people should be cautioned and guarded
against casual acquaintanceship and the society
of persons whose intentions and influence may be
of the very worst character.
	Excursion parties should be conducted by per-
sons of standing and wisdom and under regula-
tions that will preclude the evils that frequently
attend such gatherings. When arranged for pur-
poses of speculation, the promoters are often too
heedless of consequences in their anxiety for pro-
fits, and will mix together the worst of characters
and the good and unsophisticated, with results
that can but be lamentable. Sunday excursions
to lake or canon, moonlight trips and late bathing
trains should be emphatically discouraged. The
society of persons who place themselves under
the baleful influence of intoxicants should be
avoided. Order should be maintained in the
midst of merriment. Indecorous language and
conduct should be frowned down. All excess is
detrimental. Temperance should govern in every-
thing. Amusement is not the purpose of life, it
should be indulged in only by way of variety.
When people accustom themselves to constant or
oft-repeated rounds of pleasure, the true objects
of human existence are forgotten and duty be-
comes irksome and detestable. Children should
not be permitted to attend public gatherings with
out older persons accompanying to guard them
from accident and from the contamination of the
ungodly. The responsibility for the evils attend-
ing violations of these instructions will rest upon
parents, guardians and the local Priesthood in the
various wards and settlements. Persons who
habitually desecrate the Lord's day cannot be
held in fellowship, and the members of the Church
who neglect public worship and the partaking of
the Sacrament and do not remember the Sabbath
day to keep it holy, will become weak in the faith
and spiritually sickly and will lose the Spirit
and favor of God, and ultimately forfeit their stand-
ing in the Church and their exaltation with the
obedient and faithful.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Dr. Elvira S. Barney exhibited in this office
a Tape Worm, 31 feet in length, taken this week
from a young man about 17 years old. She makes
this one of her specialties. This is an item
worth knowing when many have suffered for years
without knowing any means for relief, as did this
young man for five years. She says she will
guarantee a removal within 24 hours after com-
mencing treatment.


CONFERENCE ITEMS.

The late General Conference, held at Provo
City was largely attended by an earnest and
eagerly attentive portion of the Latter-day Saints.
All things seemed to favor the enjoyment of those
who were privileged to be there. The weather


was delightful; peace and good order prevailed;
the singing was excellent, the hymns and anthems
being well chosen and timely. The burden of the
spirit which rested upon the speakers, seemed to
be the importance of the people exercising the
powers they hold with the heavens, and so order-
ing their lives that those powers may be steadily
and surely increased.  Fasting and prayer, the
attending of fast meetings and strict observance
of the Word of Wisdom were principles strongly
and repeatedly urged as certain means by which
the most satisfactory results are to be obtained.
One very interesting feature was a meeting of the
Deseret Sunday School Union, held on the eve-
ning of the 9th, at which valuable reports and in-
structions pertaining to Sunday School matters
were given.  On the following evening
the M. I. A. held their meeting, which was
greatly enlivened and enlightened by an epistle
from President Wilford Woodruff.  The reports
of the different Stake organizations were also very
encouraging.  The morning of the 8th (the third
and last day,) was chiefly occupied by Apostle
Lorenzo Snow in a highly interesting and charac-
teristic discourse.  And, very appropriately, the
reading of the epistle of the First Presidency
concluded the conference.
						L. G. RICHARDS.


QUESTIONS OF THE HOUR.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It is a long time since I have written you. My
silence is not due to a dearth of subjects upon which
to write, nor for the lack of time, neither from
any laziness of feeling, but from a disposition to
remain silent for a while and note passing events.
	One change follows so quickly upon the heels
of another now-a-days as to almost bewilder the
beholder, while the writer of current history is
often compelled to bring to an abrupt termination
the description of the scene of yesterday, because
of the all absorbing topic of to-day. In fact, very
few are capable of keeping pace with these fast
occurring events and something more than ordin-
arily startling must happen to at all excite our
wonder or even our surprise. I am often led to
ask myself what is the tendency of all this hap-
pening? for happening it really is in the main, and
not the result of the exercise of calm and dis-
passionate judgment.
	All classes of society are seriously disturbed,
and the waves of their agitation sometimes run
mountains high threatening destruction on every
hand. The political world rent asunder as it is,
presents a deplorable spectacle; while social life
bids fair to be torn into rags and tatters. We
look in vain for a calm sea upon which floats the
religious world, for their continual antagonisms
too plainly denote that peace is not there.
	The isolation that we enjoyed (I mean the Lat-
ter-day Saints) for so many years is a thing of the
past, for the agitators of Society, both religious
and political as well as social, are among us stir-
ing up strife, and are maddened beyond descrip-
tion because we will not take issue with them up-
on any one of their favorite questions; for there
is a fixed determination on their part to drag us
down to their level and compel us to bow at their
shrine.
	The political element, fearful of our strength be-
cause of our unity, have been engaged in system-
atically stealing our political weapons for years
past. Stealing did I say? Yes, stealing is the
word and I speak advisedly when I use it; but
the very acme of meanness and cowardice was
reached by them when they took from woman her
only weapon,—THE FRANCHISE. Years ago woman
was brought within the political arena through their
clamor and had presented to her this weapon, new 
and bright; and now, because they have watched
in vain to see her use it as they dictated, she


[Column 1]

choosing to use it as she pleased, they have stolen
it from her, leaving her as unprotected as before,
and then turn round and howl about the down
trodden women of Utah. Oh, the hypocrites! I
wonder what hope they have either now or in the
future of winning our esteem by such conduct?
It is the height of absurdity to expect it for they
never will realize it.
	Talk about preserving the purity of the ballot.
Could not woman be trusted to help retain its
purity? Is it not rather that its purity is too well
preserved when it is in part in woman's keeping
that is the matter? These men certainly will not
claim in the face of so many revelations of cor-
ruption and fraud that have been proven against
them in this particular that the ballot is safe in
their hands alone? A jealous woman is to be
pitied, but a jealous man should be despised, and
it is certainly jealousy of women in regard to
the wise and honest use she will make of this
one weapon that has prompted these men to steal
it from her.
	Now, my sisters, seeing this has been done, let
us exercise ourselves in another direction. We
have hundreds of sons who are approaching man-
hood: we can recite to them the wrong that has
been done us in this regard and teach them the
value of this weapon when wielded aright. When
they reach maturity we can assure ourselves that
each boy of ours is secure in its possession and
that we can teach him how to use it; and who is
there who dare attempt to rob us of this sacred
trust! Our political rights must be maintained
at all cost save that of sacred covenant; therefore
let every disfranchised mother not only train her
sons, but see that they are fully qualified to enter
the arena from which she has been so cruelly ban-
ished and there contend for the right; for next to
our holy religion, is our country and its wise and
judicious government, to secure which, men of
of sterling worth must rule therein and not dema-
gogues nor hungry political cormorants.
	Nor should our daughters be neglected, for the
future mothers of the race need as careful train-
ing (though in another direction) as our sons. A
training as varied and extensive as her future re-
sponsibilities will be—a thorough, practical knowl-
edge of domestic life, seems to me to be indispens-
able, although a great deal of the drudgery be-
longing thereto may in her after years be done by
others. A sufficient literary education should be
secured, while a partial musical education (at
least) will add much to that refinement that sits so
gracefully upon woman.
	I was visiting some time ago at the home of a 
most estimable woman; accompanying me was
a sister who is an excellent organist; a splendid
instrument was in the room and she executed a
few of her best pieces. I noticed how interested
the children were. After the music ceased, the
youngest, a bright little fellow, four years old, who
was leaning upon his mother's knee, looked up in
her face and said with such earnestness, "Ma, I
wish you could play like that lady; can't you try?"
Unluckily for this excellent mother that part of
her education had been neglected.
	There is, however, another kind of training which
seems to me to be of the greatest importance, for
what is life worth to us or others without health
and strength? I pity a young man who has to
assume the role of nurse almost as soon as mar-
ried life begins and the bodily condition of whose
young wife demands a doctor as well. He soon
tires of hired help no matter how efficient it may
be, nor how attentive to his wants. For disguise
it as he may, he longs for the society of her he
loves, and that, too, away from the invalid couch.
	One very fruitful source among many others
that might be named, of what is termed
"female weakness," is in an over-indulgence
in dancing; more especially in waltzing, schot-
tisching and the polka; always accompanied
as such pastimes are with late hours; and

[Column 2]

yet how persistent we are to continue this
practice and that, too, against the desire of our
best friends. We can exercise ourselves far more
legitimately and without danger, in other ways
that are most commendable and praiseworthy;
that will preserve the elastic step, the queenly
gait, the ruddy cheek and the robust constitution
unimpaired; thus securing to posterity that vitality
and strength which is so desirable. Mothers!
too many of us live too far away from our
daughters. Their secret life is to us a sealed
book; let us open its pages and with the every
day's experience written therein let us add leaf by
leaf those wise suggestions that knowledge only
can give.
	I have often looked upon the bronzed cheek of
the maiden who performed daily the heaviest
physical labor and often out of doors and have
noticed her healthy appearance as compared with
the pampered girl of fashion, powder and paint.
Let us draw a line between these two extremes
and follow the middle course of conduct so beau-
tifully in keeping with our, organism and thus pre-
serve that healthy equilibrium of body and of
mind which God designed we should possess and
enjoy.
	All being well you shall hear again from
		AUNT RUTH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPRING HOPES.

	The strenuous efforts made by our enemies to
devastate this land, and to make it a place of un-
happiness and misery, have only served to
strengthen the people and cause them to become
more united, more patient, more loving on every
side, instead of creating the sorrow and woe they
hoped to bring by this most cruel persecution.
	With the return of spring, hope, faith, love and
peace are again renewed, and as though to cheer
the Saints, and show them that the darkness can-
not last forever, spring has opened unusually
early, and if possible in greater beauty; the trees
and grass have commenced to show signs of re-
newed life, and the early flowers are already in
their bloom; the birds, too, have returned to their
old haunts, and by their sweet trillings, remind us
again of their presence.
	Nature is arrayed in her most beautiful garb,
and in everything is seen the wise and wonderful
workings of the Creator; the opening of the buds,
the unfolding of the flowers, and later, the forma-
tion of fruit, betoken on all sides the hand of an
allwise and thoughtful Father.
	The valley, at this time of the year, surrounded
on all sides by grand and lofty mountains, their 
sloping sides clothed with verdure, while their
snow-white tops seem to kiss the azure sky,
presents a most beautiful appearance. Our home
is truly a lovely and a blessed one; and while
nature smiles so sweetly, and the valley seems so
full of peace and joy, surely the Father, who
watches over all, and has caused this rejoicing of
birds and bees and flowers, cares as well for the
hearts of His children; and we should also rejoice,
and sing with the birds, work with the bees, smile
with the sunshine and joyfully prepare ourselves
for the future. True, sometimes the frosts wither
the beautiful buds, and the cold winds drive the
birds away, but with the sunshine they all come
back, so trials and pain may blight our hearts and
chill our very souls, but faith and love will renew
the tender hope and strengthen the weakened life.
It has ever been the happiness of Saints to see be-
yond the gathering, threatening clouds into a
bright ethereal day of everlasting peace.
		MAMIE.


[Column 1]

ITEMS FROM KANAB.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
     I see so little in our papers from Kanab,
that I thought a few items in reference to the

[Column 2]

different organizations of this Stake would be
interesting.
	Our Sunday School Conference convened at
10 a.m., Friday, Feb. 11, 1887, at the Kanab
School House, Stake Supt., A. Frost, presided.
H. C. Bowman is the Superintendent of the
Sunday School of this ward; the exercises were
given by the pupils of his school. They were
of such a character and so well rendered, that
they evinced the efficient and capable manner
in which the school had been conducted, and
also that the Supt. and teachers had the eternal
welfare of the children at heart.
	At half past 1 p.m. the conference of the
Primary Associations of the Stake was held at
the same place. As I am more particularly
associated with this organization, I will give a
more explicit account of the proceedings. In the
absence of Stake Prest., Louisa Spencer, Coun.
Electa J. Emmett presided. Coun. Susan
Facherel was also present. There were present
of the ward presidents, M. Elizabeth Little of
Kanab, S. Facherel of Orderville, and Jane
C. Johnson of Johnson; also present as visitors,
Sisters Harriet Bunting and Artemisia Seg-
miller of the Relief Society Stake Presidency.
The meeting was opened by singing, "The Song
of the Workers." Prayer by Jane C. Johnson.
Singing, "The Trials of the Present Day."
The programme was rendered as follows, by
the children of the Kanab Association: Ques-
tions and Answers on Faith, by the whole Asso-
ciation; Song, "Who Should Sing if not the
Children," by a class of little girls; Recitation,
on faith, by Gertrude Judd; Song, "My Mother
Dear," by Emily Nash; Articles of Faith, in
concert, by a class of boys; Recitation, by 
Willie Broadbent, aged three years; Recitation,
on faith, by Ethel Stewart; Recitation, by
Sabina Oliphant; Dialogue, on faith, by a class
of little girls; Duet, "Bury Me Quietly When
I Die," by May and Sabina Oliphant; Lecture,
on faith, by Emily Nash; Recitation, by Steven
Potter, aged four years.
	M. Elizabeth Little reported her Association
as being in a good condition. Said she had
given herself a mission to teach the children
the principles of the Gospel as far as she was
able, "so that the boys, particularly, may not
only understand these principles themselves,
but be able to give the whys and wherefores of
their belief unto others."
	S. Facherel reported the Association of
Orderville as doing well, having a goodly
number enrolled, with a good average attend-
ance.
	Jane C. Johnson said there were but a few
children at Johnson; under existing circum-
stances, she thought they were doing well.
	Counselors E. J. Emmett and S. Facherel
exhorted the children to obey their parents and
those who were placed over them; also spoke
on the necessity of prayer.
	Mrs. Segmiller told the children that their
advantages were far greater than had been
those of their fathers and mothers, and they
should profit thereby.
	Singing, "O Lord, Protect Our Leaders
True." Benediction by S. Facherel.
	At 3 o'clock the ladies of the Relief Society
held their conference, Prest. Harriet Bunting
presiding, assisted by her First Coun., Mrs.
Artemisia Segmiller. We had a very enjoy-
able time.
	Coun. Segmiller spoke at some length on
the spirit of fault-finding, prevalent among
some sisters everywhere. Counseled the sisters
to be kind and charitable to one another, and
be very careful not to speak against the Lord's
anointed.
	Prest. Bunting made some remarks on the
duties of the sisters in the Relief Society.
	Other sisters bore their testimonies to the
truth of the Latter-day work.
	At half past 7 the Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A.
met in conference. The programme indicated


that they were not a whit behind others in
their progress.
	Saturday, the 12th, the people met in Stake
Conference. Although we were not blessed
with the presence of any of the Presidency, or
of any of the Apostles, the Lord had mercy
on the people on account of their peculiar
position, and inspired those who spoke to give
unto them those things that were needed for
their growth and development. I can truly
say that we had a time of refreshing from the
Lord.
		M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ITEMS FROM MILLARD.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We thought, perhaps, a small contribution
on our part might be acceptable to your valu-
able paper.
	Our Relief Society is steadily plodding along,
and as a general thing a good feeling prevails.
On the 29th of March last the sisters got up a 
party to surprise our beloved President, Sister
Adelia Kimball, on her fifty-ninth birthday.
Tables were set in the school house, and a good
assembly met.
	Sister Kimball was lured from her home on 
some pretext, and, accompanied by her Coun-
selors, Sisters Mills and Gay, entered the
house; she was greatly surprised and deeply
affected. On being seated, an autograph album
was presented to her as a token of friendship
from the sisters of the Relief Society. It was
a very happy gathering, and pleasure beamed
on every countenance.
	After all had partaken of the good things of
the earth, the tables were removed, and in the
evening songs, dancing and recitations were in-
dulged in, the ladies holding the dancing num-
bers. The invitation had been extended to the
brethren, and the house was well filled. At
the close, Sister Kimball expressed her grati-
tude to the brethren and sisters for the respect
they had shown her, and all went home feeling
the time had been well spent.
		ADELAIDE PAXTON.
	Kanosh, Millard Co., April 3rd, 1887.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

EMERY STAKE.
	The Eighth Semi-annual Conference of the
Relief Society of Emery Stake was held at
Huntington, on Friday, April 1st, commencing
at 10 a.m., Prest. Anna U. Larsen presiding.
After singing, prayer was offered by Bro.
Johnson. Minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
	Prest. Anna U. Larsen, in her opening re-
marks, spoke of the duties of the Society in
caring for the sick, and doing all they could
for those who needed assistance. She advised
all to be careful in training their children, not
neglecting to teach them the principles of the
Gospel, and thought if we lived as we should
we would have no need to fear our enemies.
	The presidents of the different branches
gave verbal reports, showing that the members
were desirous of doing all in their power to
advance the cause of truth.
	A few of the older sisters related some of
their experience in the Church, and the trials
they had passed through; they could see the
sayings of the Prophet Joseph being fulfilled
every day, and their remarks, as well as those 
of the brethren who were present, were en-
couraging and replete with good counsel and
instruction, showing a determination to uphold
all the principles revealed for our exaltation,
and put their trust in the Lord.
	A good spirit was with us, and peace pre-
vailed, all feeling blessed in meeting together

[Column 2]

Conference adjourned till the 7th of October.
Benediction by Bro. Jensen.
		ANALIZA SEELY, Sec.

MARICOPA STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I herewith submit a summary of our quar-
terly conference, held at Mesa, Dec. 16, 1886.
Conference convened at 10 a.m., Coun. Susan
Savage presiding. Our Stake Prest., E. S.
McDonald, having just returned from her trip 
to Utah and Salt Lake, felt weary and needed
rest after her tiresome journey, therefore her
Counselor took charge of the meeting. The
roll call showed a fair representation of the
different branches of the Stake. Favorable
reports were given by the presiding sisters in
regard to their societies, and they each bore a
strong testimony of the truth of the work they
were engaged in.
	A number of the brethren and sisters ad-
dressed the meeting, whose remarks were very
encouraging, and calculated in their nature
to cheer and strengthen those who were en-
gaged in the work of God.
	Coun. Savage wished the prayers of the sis-
ters in behalf of our President, that the hoarse-
ness with which she was afflicted might be
removed, that she might be enabled to address
the meeting.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald felt very thankful to
return again to our midst, and enjoy the society
of her friends once more in this favored land.
Referred to the satisfaction she had experienced
in her labors in the Temple in officiating for
her dead; felt that the Lord had blessed her in
her labors in the renewal of her health; she
never felt better in her life. Spoke of conversa-
tions she had held with strangers, concerning
the principles of our religion, especially plural
marriage; felt that the blessings of God had
been with her in these interviews, and she was
thankful for it. "The sisters should strive to
comprehend the principles of our religion, that
they may be prepared to defend them when 
assailed by our enemies. Let us extend a
helping hand and a kind word to those who
are in trouble, and be, indeed, angels of mercy
in the sphere in which we are placed." Made
many more very interesting remarks, which
were listened to with great interest.
	After singing, conference adjourned for three
months. Dismissed by Bishop Jones.
	SARAH M. POMEROY, Secretary.

SANPETE STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Sanpete Stake, held at
Ephraim, March 12, 1887, Prest. M. A. Hyde
presiding. After the usual opening exercises,
the roll was called, and minutes and reports were
read. Verbal reports were given by presidents
and representatives of the different branches,
which were very satisfactory.
	Coun. E. Allred hoped we would keep pace
with the times, as we were living under peculiar
circumstances, when all that could be shaken
would be shaken. It is necessary for us to
live lives of purity and faithfulness before God,
that this crusade might pass by.
	The following letter was then read from Sis-
ter Wareham:
DEAR SISTERS:
	Although I am deprived of the pleasure
of meeting with you in conference, I feel it a
duty to say a few words to you in behalf of
silk culture, as the time draws nearer when we
shall be obliged to sustain ourselves, and it
behooves us, as a people, to make every effort
in that direction. I would say to all who
have any mulberry trees, be not discouraged

[Column 3]

even if there appears to be no present sale for
cocoons. If you cannot sell them, you can
keep them, for I think that in a few years the
demand will be greater than the supply. So
far as I am concerned, I have no difficulty in
disposing of my silk at home for the manufac-
ture of ties, which are far nicer and more dur-
able than imported ones. I am satisfied that
if the sisters will persevere in the good work,
that success will yet crown their efforts. As
spring is now approaching, let all whose cir-
cumstances will permit, and who have the
welfare of Zion at heart, plant a few mulberry
trees and increase the number from year to
year, and those who already have the trees, I
trust will procure sufficient worms to utilize
the leaves during the coming summer.
	In conclusion I would say that, although
necessity prevents my meeting with you in
conference, yet I am with you heart and soul.
I have had a season of severe trial, but I hope
to profit by the experience thus gained. I am
happy to be able to say that Bro. Wareham
appears to be slowly recovering from his long
affliction.
	Praying God to bless you and direct your
labors during conference, I remain, with love
and good wishes,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
			REBECCA WAREHAM,
		President Silk Association.
	Sister Tuttle felt to glorify God she that lived
in such an eventful time. It was necessary for
us to be a tried and persecuted people in order
to gain a celestial glory. Did not think God
would allow us to apostatize if we would be
humble and prayerful. Looked forward to
the time when this temple would be finished,
"and we can go in and do a work for our dead
friends and relatives." Did not feel to pray
for the trials to pass by, but for strength to
bear them.
	Coun. S. Petersen felt thankful that we were
engaged in so great a work. It is now nine
years since Brigham Young urged us to lay up
wheat for a time of need, but was sorry to see
what small progress had been made. Touched
upon silk and general manufacture, there
was no time to be idle. Spoke on plural
marriage, that it was as true as baptism.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde was thankful to meet
with her sisters again after so long an absence,
during which time she had had the opportunity
to represent the Relief Society of this Stake as
being energetic and industrious in manufactur-
ing cloth, carpet, cheese, etc., etc., for the tem-
ple, besides appropriating their Sunday eggs
for the emigrating of the poor. "Our temporal
and spiritual duties cannot be separated. The
sisters are gaining spiritual strength, and when
they have a testimony of what is right, they
will bring their minds into subjection to the
will of God, no matter what the consequences
might be, knowing that the Lord loves His
daughters as well as His sons, and hears and
answers their prayers." Concluded by speak-
ing in tongues, which was interpreted by Sister
Casto, and was very encouraging to the
daughters of Zion.
	Bishop Jensen of Manti, addressed the con-
ference; felt to say, "May the God of Israel
bless and strengthen the sisters in their efforts
to do good."
	Prest. Canute Petersen said the Latter-day
Saints were making quite a history. "The sis-
ters are now sailing in the same canoe as the
brethren, as they have all been disfranchised."
Dilated on the principles of our faith and
blessed the sisters.
	The choir sang, "God is Love." Benedic-
tion by Bishop Andersen. Conference adjourned
to meet at Sterling, June 11th, 1887.
		M. A. HYDE WHITE, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A PLEASANT AFFAIR.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 13th of December last, 1886, the sis-
ters of the Relief Society of Show Low,
Arizona, gave a party in honor of our beloved
President, Harriet Whipple, before her de-
parture to Mexico with her husband.
	It was quite a surprise to the aged couple,
three of their sons being absent at the time.
When at six in the evening the brethren and
sisters drove up to the door, they came out to
see who it was, thinking it was their sons, as
they were looking for them, but on seeing so
many vehicles Bro. Whipple exclaimed,
"What is the matter? Is any one sick or hurt?"
when one of the sisters remarked, "If you
think any of this crowd are sick you are off."
Bro. Whipple then, being over eighty years of
age, shook hands with all, and assisted the
ladies to alight from the wagons to the porch,
still not comprehending what was up until
all were seated in the house when the assembly
was called to order by Bishop Hans Hansen,
and prayer was offered. Then Bro. Whipple
arose and said he never was so surprised in
his life, and he felt full of true joy and grati-
tude to think his friends were so kind as to re-
member them in their old age. Said he never
felt better in his life, and felt that the Spirit of
the Lord was here, but was too over joyed to
say much. He hoped the party assembled
would never forget the occasion, as he was so
pleased and grateful for their kindness he
never would forget it, and he blessed all that
took part in the affair.
	Bro. David W. Savage then read the follow-
ing lines composed for the occasion by Sister
Mary Ann McNeil, she not being able to at-
tend, as she was sick:
		
A TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.
	Accept, dear Sister Harriet Whipple,
What we have planned to-night,
As respect from us, and we hope it's right;
And this little gift we present to thee,
May it in some future day a comfort be.
Not that our names are required of thee
To vindicate thy worth or set thee free,
From thy great station—no, but praise bestowed
In gratitude for what we all have owed;
For counsel, wisdom and intelligence
Thy tongue and faith amongst us did dispense;
For this we thank thee, and for this we claim
To tell thy worth and venerate thy name.
Not that we've earned what we so much desire, 
But that, like you, to fame we may aspire;
And while we for the present grieve to part,
Your name's engrave on each beating heart,
And we ask the Lord your journey to bless,
That you may never be found in distress,
And that you with your aged and noble sire
May live as long as life is a desire;
And we hope that in your far-away home,
Or where'er you may chance to roam,
Your duty to God you will ever do,
And the Lord will guide and protect you through.

	Coun. Mary Adair then presented to Sister
Whipple, in behalf of the Society, a new
black dress.
	Sister Whipple arose and thanked the sisters
for their kindness and respect shown to her.
Said she did not think the sisters thought so
much of her, and was overcome with joy and
gratitude, so much that she could not express
her feelings as she would like to. Hoped all
would enjoy themselves, as they had met to
please her. She prayed the Lord to bless all
the sisters in their endeavors to do right.
	Some few remarks were made by several of
the brethren present, then the tables were
spread with the good things of the land, in-
cluding home brewed beer, with stuffed turkey
and chicken. While at supper their sons
came home from St. Johns, making it more
satisfactory for the venerable pair. The even-

[Column 2]

ing was then spent in songs, recitations, etc. At
ten o'clock the assembly began to repair to
their homes, but Bro. Whipple put it to vote
that they should stay longer, but it being even,
they all returned home feeling very well paid
for their trouble in making two hearts happy.
		MARY ANN McNEIL, Sec.


ITEMS FROM COLEVILLE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As we don't remember ever having been
heard from through the columns of our valu-
able paper, we thought, perhaps, a few items
from our little settlement might not be amiss.
We are trying, to the best of our ability, to do
our duty and help roll on the work of God.
	Our Bishop, John C. Larsen, is a man of
God, and is never tired of working for the in-
terest of his ward, and for the building up of
God's kingdom.
	We have a good Relief Society, with Sister
Elizabeth Tittonsor as President, and Sisters
Susannah Larsen and Carrie Kingsford, Coun-
selors.
	Our Y. L. M. I. A., with Sister Mary Bair,
President, and Sisters Mary Tittonsor and
Betsy Allen, her Counselors, is doing a good
work for the improvement of the young.
	Our Primary Association was reorganized
on the 9th of last May, with Sister Emma
Cornish, President, and Sisters Jane R. Biggs
and Minerva Allen Counselors; Miss Lottie
Spackman, Secretary; Miss Caroline Cornish,
Treasurer.  Our Primary meetings are well at-
tended, and the children, bless them, are al-
ways willing to take their parts, and do any-
thing that is required of them.
	We held a Primary exhibition on the 22nd
of February, for the purpose of assisting to
gather the poor. Our programme consisted of
songs, recitations, dialogues, and also two
comic pieces, one entitled, "Have you Heard
the News," and the other, "That Postal Card."
After paying expenses we had a balance of
$9.75 left, which was turned for the purpose
before mentioned.
	Our worthy Bishop has kindly promised to
give one acre of land for the boys of the
Primary Association to plant in potatoes, each
one to furnish an equal share of potatoes,
to plant them and see after them, and the pro-
ceeds to go towards buying musical instruments,
so we can have a Primary band. This will en-
courage the children, and will also teach them
to be useful.
	Praying for those who have the welfare of
Zion at heart, and who are diligently working
for the spread of truth on the earth, and all
that is good and noble, we remain,
	Your sisters and co-workers in the Gospel,
		EMMA CORNISH,
		JANE R. BIGGS,
		MINERVA ALLEN.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.

	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the "French Craze" for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18 
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
landscapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra


and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I'd Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy's Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won't You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don't Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock; Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor's Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack's Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send  you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address,. The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


In England, single women and widows have
had full municipal suffrage for eighteen years.
Mr. Gladstone says they exercise it "without
detriment, and with great advantage."
	In Iowa the average wages paid women
school teachers are twenty-seven dollars, while
men teachers receive thirty-two dollars. Dis-
franchisement thus costs each female teacher
forty-five dollars per year.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT

ON THE DEATH OF SISTER HAWLEY.

	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His infinite wisdom
has seen fit to remove from our midst by the hand of death
our beloved sister, Jennie Hawley,
	Whereas, Our sister, by her kind, sympathetic nature,
and faithfulness to the cause of truth, has won the hearts of
all those who knew her worth, therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Mesa Relief
Society, do hereby tender our love and esteem to the mem-
ory of our departed sister, and we realize that in her we
have lost a true friend and a faithful co-worker in the ever-
lasting Gospel.
	Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the
bereaved husband and family of the deceased, and feel to
express an earnest hope that the Holy Comforter will im-
part to them consolation and comfort in this hour of their
deep sorrow.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be sent to
the family of the deceased, a copy to the EXPONENT for
publication, and also placed on the Society records.
		ELIZABETH G. MCDONALD,
		ELEANOR MORRIS,
		MABEL ANN HAKES,
		SARAH M. POMEROY,
			Committee.


REMEMBRANCE OF LOVE.

	The following is a short sketch of the life of my sister,
whose maiden name was Christina Swenson, since she first
embraced the Gospel:


She was born in Sweden, on the 10th of July, 1834, and
in company with myself emigrated to Copenhagen, Den-
mark on the 1st of April, 1859. At that time neither
us had heard anything about the Latter-day Saints, but we
soon heard it, and on the 30th of April, the same year, we
were baptized, and on the 1st day of May we were both
confirmed into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. She was baptized by Elder Olson, and confirmed
by Elder Johnson, and emigrated to Utah in 1863, in con-
nection with myself; was married to Elder H. Funk in Salt
Lake City, in November, 1863, with whom she lived until
her death. Moved from Salt Lake to Richmond, Cache
Co., in 1864, where she resided for some time, then moved
to Weston in 1865 or 1866, but as the Indians were trouble-
some there at that time, they moved back to Richmond.
	When the Relief Society was first organized there, she
being one of the first members, was chosen for a teacher,
and after a short time was appointed as President over the
teachers, which duty she faithfully performed until 1874, when
her husband was called to act as Bishop over Newton Ward
and she was again appointed as a teacher, the office of
which she held until the day of her death.
	She was a faithful wife and mother in Israel, and as such
I think she is worthy to be mentioned in our little paper,
the EXPONENT. She, like many other faithful women,
passed through many trials and sufferings, which were un-
known to any one save God and herself. She was well
known as an exceedingly good woman. Her duty was
always the first consideration, and one of her teachings
was, "It is better to suffer wrong than to do wrong." She
lived in plural marriage the most of her life, and honored
it as an exaltation for her in eternal life. I never heard a
doubting word pass her lips either as regards plural mar-
riage or the truth of this work. She was always happy
and contented with her lot, as well as a careful, economical
and industrious housekeeper. She was always hard at
work, though not to store up for herself, but always divided
with others who she thought needed it worse than she did
Her hands and heart were always ready to do good, both
in sickness and other troubles.
	I ought not to mourn for my dear sister's departure; she
has gone through to the rest that remains for the faithful.
She has gone to her dearest children, whom with joy she will
clasp to her bosom again, all but one, who is left to struggle
on alone. She has suffered and borne all her sorrow with
patience; her troubles and trials have all passed away; she
has won the bright crown by faith and endurance; her
reward is obtained, her joy is complete, so, farewell, dear
sister, I would not recall thee, for we know thou art happy
in the heaven of rest; thou hast done all the work that thou
could do, henceforth thou wilt dwell with the good and the
blest.
	Dearest sister, I had to lose thee, and I cannot tell you
how I feel, but I can tell here how I loved you; you were
always so good and kind, not only to me, but to all around
you, and an honor in the places where you lived. Often
were you left so lonely, busy working all the time, but the
Lord our God did love you, and I know you have been a
faithful wife and loving mother, and a sister good and kind,
not to talk about another, nor with their doings fault to
find.
	To all good sisters I will say, "Here is one to represent
us if we will follow in her way." Now, the unpleasant
world, farewell; I must tarry for a time, may love and
peace forever dwell, and God be with us, sisters dear, that
are left yet to labor for a while.
		COM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Grantsville, Tooele Co., January 20, 1887,
Rachel C., the beloved wife of Samuel Woolley, and
daughter of Andrew and Janet Cahoon. She leaves a
husband, four children and a host of loving friends
to mourn her loss. Her pleasant words, accompanied
with a bright smile, won for her true friends wherever her
lot was cast. She was cheerful under all circumstances,
and lived and died a faithful Latter-day Saint.
	The funeral services were held in the Grantsville Meeting
House, Saturday, January 22nd. The speakers were
Bishop Samuel Woolley, John Woolley, Apostle John W.
Taylor and Prest. A. M. Cannon. They all spoke very
highly of the deceased. Apostle Taylor said that she had
led an exemplary life; that her life had been nothing but
good from beginning to end. Advised all to follow in 
her footsteps.
		EMMA S. JACOBS.

	DIED, at Zeno, Maricopa Co., Arizona, at 7 p.m., on
Wednesday, March 2nd, 1887, Ann Jane, wife of Charles

[Column 2]

L. Hawley, aged forty-nine years, two months and four days.
	Sister Hawley, daughter of Isaac and Mary Russell, was
born near Kirtland, Ohio, on the 26th of Dec. 1837, while
her father was in England proclaiming the Gospel. On re-
turning in April, 1838, with Heber C. Kimball and
Orson Hyde from England, her father with his family removed
to Far West, Caldwell Co., Missouri, the then gathering
place of the Saints. Scenes prior and subsequent to the
expulsion of the Saints from Missouri, through which she
passed with her father's family, cannot be enumerated in
the short space allotted to an obituary notice; suffice it to say,
her father's house, nightly as it were, was assailed by a
mob, the roof torn partly off, chimney torn down, windows
smashed in, horses maimed, wagons chopped to pieces,
cattle shot down, haystacks burned, his life threatened
numerous times, his children dragged from their beds at
the dead hour of night, by order of John Ragland, a re-
puted horse thief, and chief of the mob, he swearing that
he would shoot them unless their father would promise to
leave the place. This he would not do. The house was
then emptied of all its contents, the ruffians swearing
they would burn it down. The children, Sister Hawley be-
ing one of them at that time, asleep, were carried from
their beds and placed for the mob to shoot, but Providence
did not permit them to be murdered
	Next he was cast into prison, because he would not vio-
late his conscience, as in the present day, at the order of
Circuit Judge, Austin A. King, and, finally, fresh license be-
ing taken from the action of Judge King, early in the year
1842 he was torn from his house, in the presence of his
family, by an infuriated, howling mob, dragged up on the
Temple Lot in Far West, and there sold as a slave to the
highest bidder, for a term of six months, John Ragland
being the purchaser, and Patrick Lynch, another noted
mobber, being the auctioneer Remember, this was in a
free country, and the person not a citizen of the United
States, but a British subject. Prior to this, the said Patrick
Lynch was clerk in Jacob Stollins store in Gallatin, Daviess
Co., where a fight occurred, otherwise mentioned in
Church history.
	With his wife, infant child and eldest daughter, he re-
paired to the farm of his purchaser, in the borders of
Daviess Co., serving out the allotted time in labor thereon,
at the expiration of which he leased a piece of land three
miles east of Richmond, in Ray Co., and built a log house
thereon, and early in the spring of the year 1843, gathered
his family again together, where, on the 25th of September,
1844, he passed away from—the last seven years—an
eventful life, at the early age of thirty-seven years, leaving
his wife and six small children, the youngest then not one
year old, Sister Hawley, the subject of this notice, being
the fourth in age.
	Long after he had slept in his grave, the scene of his
sale was alluded to in the presence of an old Missouri
pioneer, named Nimrod Duncan, who had witnessed it,
and Mr. Duncan remarked, "I am an old man, one foot,
as it were, in the grave; when I first set foot here, where
the City of Richmond now stands, it was a forest; the
woodman's axe had not then entered. I have seen many
ups and downs in life, but that, "alluding to the sale referred
to, "was the most disgraceful scene that I ever witnessed
under the government of the United States, and that, too,
when the civil law was said to be in full force." There was
no polygamy then. The sacred marriage principle of
the Latter-day Saints was then not known, nor heard of.
No cause whatever could be assigned for the brutal, fiendish
acts of the mob, nor for their being permitted to continue
them for three successive years after the expulsion of the
body of the Church, save that the man was a "Mormon,"
and that the administrators of the law, many of them then,
as now, were but fiends at heart themselves.
	Left by the wayside, a stranger in a strange land;
destitute, with her helpless family (no one to rely upon
save her God and the promise of her dying husband, that
his children should not want for bread), the widowed
mother struggled on.
	Seventeen years passed by. Sister Hawley, now grown
to womanhood, never having heard a word in defense of
the Gospel in all this time, but raised in a school of preju-
dice against it, with her mother, sister and brother
with one accord set out for Utah, 1,300 miles away, arriving
in Salt Lake City on the 15th of September, 1861. Here,
by Heber C. Kimball, on the 3rd of January, 1863, she
was married to Charles W. Hawley, residing in Salt Lake
City and vicinity up to December, 1883, when she came
with her family to this Territory, Arizona.
	She leaves her husband and four daughters, the youngest
in her 14th year, besides her kindred and many friends to
mourn her loss. She died loved and respected by all who
knew her.	COM.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY. 

The Leading Retail 
Cash House. 

R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY. 

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868. 

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE, 
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west. 
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt. 

Special to the Ladies. 

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS. 
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
-ant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

