
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1886.	No. 1.


THE LEGEND OF THE PASSION
		FLOWER.

When from Eden's garden banished
	By a just, offended God,
Those two exiles—angels followed.
	Sprinkling with their tears the sod,

Where those jewels fell, bright flowers
	Sprang to life in dale and wood.
One, amidst the thorns and briers,
	Grew in mystic similitude.

With no comrade but the night wind,
	Pressed its loneliness like pain,
Till it bowed its head in anguish,
	Asking o'er and o'er again

Of the centuries sweeping past it,
	In their ever changing mood,
"Why, unlike all other flowers,
	Am I doomed to solitude?

"Sympathies unmeasured for them
	Poets sing in sweetest lays.
Must I unknown thus forever
	Dwell where none may love or praise?"

"Ah!" the breezes softly answered,
	As they kissed its tears away,—
"Bliss unknown to others waits thee,
	Patience but another day."

With the morning light came soldier,
	On their cruel errand sent.
To the crown for Him they plaited
	Its sweet charm the flower lent.

When upon the cross they crowned Him,
	One in whom was found no guile
Crushed amid the thorns this flower
	Sweetest fragrance gave the while.

Through the darkness and the horror
	Of that terror-stricken morn,
Brightly gleamed this mystic symbol,
	Where of anguish Love was bon.

Ah, revealed! at last its mission,
	Fulfilled its destiny. 
Emblem of the Crucifixion,
	Passion-flowers bloom to-day.
							FAITH.
	Brunswick, Me., 1886. 

	*The column of this flower represents the pillar to which
Christ was bound; its fringes, the crown of thorns; the
tendrils, the cords that bound Him ue styles, the nails; 
the stamens, the hammer that drove hem through His
tender flesh.


[Column 1]
		EXPLANATORY.

		Salt Lake City, May 26th, 1886.

DEAR AUNT EM:

	Agreeable to your request, I send you a copy
of my article, which was prepared for the late
Mass Meeting, but through some oversight
did not appear in the published pamphlet:

		SOME HARD QUESTIONS.

	Has Senator Edmunds a [-]fe or a daughter?
If he has either, what must be her feelings to-
wards him? How must she r[-]gard his injustice
to woman? How can she tolerate the inhu-
manity of his nature, which is so apparent in
the laws he has framed for Utah? laws which
are to take away the political rights, not only
of those women whom he cho[-]ses to call offend-
ers, but those also who have committed no of-
fence.
	And the government officials, who, here in

[Column 2]
Utah, are carrying out some of Edmunds’ un-
just suggestions even before they have become
laws. Is it possible that they, at least some of
the most cruel of them, can have wives,
daughters, or sisters? It is to be hoped not!
After heaping the insults and indignities upon
“Mormon” women that they do, how could
they ever have the assurance to speak to or
look at any woman again? They must have
had mothers—are they dead? It is a great
pity if some of them are not. Supposing it to
be the case, that either of the gentlemen
operating in the federal court here has a wife,
how would he like to have such questions asked
of her, as have been asked of other men’s
wives, and in open court?
	It is to be feared that these gentlemen, in all
their studies and researches after knowledge,
have failed to come accross, or else have en-
tirely overlooked the GOLDEN RULE. It
would be a charitable work to get that beauti-
ful law printed on Sunday School cards and
send it to them by an army of the little “Mor-
mon” children whose papas are now in prison.
In prison for no crime, except that they own
and support them and their mammas, and
some of the leading ones of the nation choose
to call this wrong. “If you would only re-
nounce polygamy!” some of them have said;
but how is it now, if non-polygamists are to be
disfranchised the same as though they were
really among the offenders? Can they not see
that they are showing us before hand that we
need not anticipate any good from them, how-
ever we might turn, so long as we choose to
serve the Lord instead of the evil one, so long
as we will live pure lives instead of corrupt
ones? If they don’t see it we do, and we are
all the more determined to love the Lord and
serve Him with all our might. May He have
mercy on us and save us, and may He have
mercy, and if possible turn them from the
error of their ways. We do not ask them to
have pity on us; we have learned better; but
from the very bottom of our hearts, great,
warm, loving hearts, such as they know noth-
ing about—we pity them and pray for them.
We are shocked and wounded now by their
cruelty towards us, by all that we see and hear
of them; but oh! it will be far more terrible to
see and hear them in the near future, when
they are calling for rocks and mountains to
fall upon them, and hide them from the
presence of an offended and all powerful God!
			LULA GREENE RICHARDS.
	March 5th, 1886.


[Column 1]
	CELESTIAL MARRIAGE.

EDITOR DESERET NEWS:	 
	DEAR SIR—Something over twelve years ago,
by my solicitation, Brother William Clayton,
at that time and for many years Territorial
Auditor, wrote a brief history of facts which
came undnr his observation relative to the
writing of the Revelation on Celestial Marri-
age, as now found in section 132, Doctrine
and Covenants, page 463, and first published
to the world in 1852,at a general conference of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, held in Salt Lake City. I now for-
ward this document to you for publication,
believing that the perusal of it will prove in-
teresting to your numerous readers just at this
present juncture, when the subject seems to be

[Column 2]
the all absorbing topic with respect to the
Latter-day Saints, and “Mormonism” in gen-
eral. It may prove a stumbling block to
some,but it will throw light upon many points
heretofore obscure, and but little understood
by many, which I trust will prove not only in-
teresting but instructive and profitable. It
will at least prove a guide to all, in connection
with the abundant and incontrovertible evi-
dence already had on this point to the identity
of its author, under God, for which, all who
love the truth, cannot but feel thankful. It
must be borne in mind that this great and
glorious principle was first revealed to Joseph
Smith in 1831—or 1832 (I have not the exact
date with me,) but being forbidden to make it
public, or to teach it as a doctrine of the Gos-
pel, at that time he confided the facts to only
a very few of his most intimate associates.
Among them were Oliver Cowdery and Ly-
man E. Johnson, the latter confiding the fact
to his traveling companion Elder Orson Pratt,
in the year 1832. (See O. Pratts’ testimony.) 
And this great principle remained concealed
in the bosoms of the Prophet Joseph and the
few to whom he revealed it, until he was com-
manded, about 1842, to instruct the leading
members of the Priesthood, and those who
were most faithful and intelligent, and best
prepared to receive, it in relation thereto, at
which time, and subsequently until his
martyrdom, the subject, in connection with the
great principles of baptism, redemption and
sealings for the dead became the great themes
of his life, and, as the late Prest. Geo. A.
Smith repeatedly said to me and others, “The
Prophet seemed irresistibly moved by the
power of God to establish that principle, not
only in theory, in the hearts and minds of
his brethren. but in practice also!” he himself
having led the way. While this doctrine was
thus being taught by the Prophet to those
whom he could trust—those who had faith,
righteousness and integrity, to believe and ac-
cept it, with all its consequences, (which are no
trifling things) it remained an “unwritten law”
and commandment of the Almighty to the
faithful only of His Saints, designed to be en-
larged as intelligence and fidelity to the laws
of God increased; until the 12th day of July,
1843, when a portion of the revelation was writ-
ten in the manner, and (at that time) for the
purpose set forth in the statement of Elder
Clayton’s now submitted to the world, and as 
indicated in the revelation itself, as follows, v.
66: “And now,as pertaining to this law, verily,
verily I say unto you, I will reveal more unto
you hereafter. therefore let this suffice for the
present.”
	Let all the Latter-day Saints know that
Joseph Smith, the martyred Prophet, is re-
sponsible to God and the world for this doc-
trine, and let every soul know that he and his
brother Hyrum did practice the doctrine, in
their lifetime, and until their death, notwith-
standing their seeming denials as published in
the Times and Seasons and which are so fer-
vently relied upon as evidence against the fact
by a certain class of anti-polygamists. Those
denials can be explained, and have been, and
while they are true in the sense, and for the
purpose for which they were designed,they are
not denials of plural or celestial marriage as
taught by Joseph Smith and practiced at the
time by both of  them, and many others in
prominent standing in the Church. These
seeming denials themselves are specific proofs


[Column 1]
of the existence of the true coin, the counter-
feit of which they denounced.
	Let every Saint know by unimpeachable
testimony, as well as by the spirit of inspira-
tion to which each Saint is entitled, that God
Almighty revealed this doctrine to Joseph the
martyr, and that under God he was and is the
the founder, by precept and example, of the
same in the Church.
	Praying God to bless this testimony to the
comforting of the Saints and the confusion of
their enemies, I have the heartfelt pleasure to
remain eternally yours for the truth, "if it
wake the dead."
					JOSEPH F. SMITH.

	STATEMENT OF WILLIAM CLAYTON.

				Copy.

	Inasmuch as it may be interesting to future
generations of the members of the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to learn
something of the first teachings of the princi-
ple of plural marriage by President Joseph
Smith, the Prophet, Seer, Revelator and trans-
lator of said Church, I will give a short re-
lation of facts which occurred within my per-
sonal knowledge, and also matters related to
me by President Joseph Smith.
	I was employed as a clerk in President
Joseph Smith's office, under Elder Willard
Richards, and commenced to labor in the office
on the 10th day of February, 1842. I con-
tinued to labor with Elder Richards until he
went east to fetch his wife to Nauvoo.
	After Elder Richards started East I was
necessarily thrown constantly into the com-
pany of President Smith, having to attend to
his public and private business, receiving and
recording tithings and donations, attending to
land and other matters of business. During
this period I necessarily became well ac-
quainted with Emma Smith, the wife of the
Prophet Joseph, and also with the children—
Julia M. (an adopted daughter), Joseph, 
Frederick and Alexander, very much of the
business being transacted at the residence of
the Prophet.
	On the 7th of October, 1842, in the presence
of Bishop Newel K. Whitney and his wife
Elizabeth Ann, President Joseph Smith ap-
pointed me Temple Recorder, and also his
private clerk, placing all records, books, papers,
etc., in my care, and requiring me to take
charge of and preserve them, his closing words
being, "when I have any Revelations to write.
you are the one to write them."
	During this period the Prophet Joseph
frequently visited my house in my company,
and became well acquainted with my wife Ruth,
to whom I had been married five years. One
day in the month of February, 1843, date not
remembered, the Prophet invited me to walk 
with him. During our walk, he said he had
learned that there was a sister back in Eng-
land, to whom I was very much attached. I
replied, there was, but nothing further than an
attachment, such as a brother and sister in the 
Church might rightfully entertain for each
other. He then said, "Why don't you send
for her?" I replied, "In the first place, I have
no authority to send for her, and if I had, I 
have not the means to pay expenses." To 
this he answered, "I give you authority to
send for her, and I will furnish you the 
means," which he did. This was the first time
the Prophet Joseph talked with me on the sub-
ject of plural marriage. He informed me that
the doctrine and principle was right in the
sight of our Heavenly Father, and that it was a
doctrine which pertained to Celestial order and
glory. After giving me lengthy instructions
and information concerning the doctrine of
celestial or plural marriage, he concluded his
remarks by the words, "It is your privilege to
have all the wives you want." After this in-
troduction, our conversations on the subject of

[Column 2]
plural marriage were very frequent, and he
appeared to take particular pains to inform
and instruct me in respect to the principle. He
also informed me that he had other wives liv-
ing besides the first wife Emma, and in par-
ticular, gave me to understand that Eliza R.
Snow, Louisa Beman, Desdamona C. Fullmer
and others, were his lawful wives in the sight 
of Heaven.
	On the 27th of April, 1843, the Prophet
Joseph Smith married to me Margaret Moon,
for time and eternity, at the residence of Elder
Heber C. Kimball; and on the 22d of July,
1843, he married to me, according to the
order of the Church, my first wife Ruth.
	On the 1st day of May, 1843, I officiated in
the office of an Elder by marrying Lucy
Walker to the Prophet Joseph Smith, at his
own residence.
	During this period the Prophet Joseph took
several other wives. Amongst the number I
well remember Eliza Partridge, Emily Part-
ridge, Sarah Ann Whitney, Helen Kimball 
and Flora Woodworth. These all, he ac-
knowledged to me, were his lawful, wedded
wives, according to the celestial order. His
wife Emma was cognizant of the fact of some
if not all of these being his wives, and gener-
ally treated them very kindly.
	On the morning of the 12th of July, 1843,
Joseph and Hyrum Smith came into the office
in the upper story of the "brick store," on the
bank of the Mississippi river. They were
talking on the subject of plural marriage. Hy-
rum said to Joseph, "If you will write the
revelation on Celestial Marriage, I will take
and read it to Emma, and I believe I can con-
vince her of its truth, and you will hereafter
have peace." Joseph smiled and remarked,
"You do not know Emma as well as I do." Hy-
rum repeated his opinion and further re-
marked, "The doctrine is so plain, I can con-
vince any reasonable man or woman of its
truth, purity and heavenly origin," or words
to their effect. Joseph then said, "well, I 
will write the revelation and we will see." He
then requested me to get paper and prepare
to write. Hyrum very urgently requested
Joseph to write the revelation by means of the
Urim and Thummim, but Joseph, in reply
said he did not need to, for he knew the reve-
lation perfectly from beginning to end.
	Joseph and Hyrum then sat down, and
Joseph commenced to dictate the revelation
on Celestial Marriage, and I wrote it, sentence
by sentence, as he dictated. After the whole
was written, Joseph asked me to read it
through, slowly and carefully, which I did
and he pronounced it correct. He then re-
marked that there was much more that he
could write, on the same subject, but what was
written was sufficient for the present.
	Hyrum then took the Revelation to read to
Emma. Joseph remained with me in the
office until Hyrum returned. When he came
back Joseph asked how he had succeeded.
Hyrum replied that he had never received a
more severe talking to in his life, that Emma
was very bitter and full of resentment
and anger.
	Joseph quietly remarked, "I told you, you 
did not know Emma as well as I did." Joseph
then put the Revelation in his pocket, and
they both left the office.
	The Revelation was read to several of the
authorities during the day. Towards evening
Bishop Newel K. Whitney asked Joseph if he
had any objections to his taking a copy of the
Revelation; Joseph replied that he had not,
and handed it to him. It was carefully copied
the following day by Joseph C. Kingsbury.
Two or three days after the Revelation was
written Joseph related to me and several others
that Emma had so teased, and urgently en-
treated him for the privilege of destroying it,
that he became so weary of her teasing, and to

[Column 3]
g[-]t rid of her annoyance, he told her she
m[-]ght destroy it and she had done so, but he
had consented to her wish in this matter to
pacify her, realizing that he knew the Revela-
tion perfectly, and could re-write it at any
time if necessary.
	The copy made by Joseph C. Kingsbury is a
tru[-] and correct copy of the original in every 
resp[-]ct. The copy was carefully preserved
by Bishop Whitney, and but few knew of its
exist[-]nce until the temporary location of the
Cam[-] of Israel at Winter Quarters, on the
Missouri River, in 1846.
	Aft[-]r the Revelation on celestial marriage
was w[-]itten Joseph continued his instructions,
privat[-]ly, on the doctrine, to myself and
others, and during the last year of his life we
were sc[-]rcely ever together, alone, but he was
talking on the subject, and explaining that
doctrine and principles connected with it. He
appeare[-] to enjoy great liberty and freedom
in his te[-]chings, and also to find great relief
in having a few to whom he could unbosom
his feelin[-]s on that great and glorious subject.
	From h[-]m, I learned that the doctrine of
plural and celestial marriage is the most holy
and impor[-]ant doctrine ever revealed to man
on the eart[-], and without obedience to that
principle n[-] man can ever attain to the fulness
of exaltatio[-] in celestial glory. 
			(Signed) WILLIAM CLAYTON.
Salt Lake C[-]ty, February 16th, 1874.

TERRITORY OF UTAH.
		Co[-]nty Salt Lake. ss.

	On the si[-]teenth day of February, A. D.
1874, before [-]he undersigned, a notary public,
in and for sai[-] county and Territory, person-
ally came Wm. Clayton, who, being sworn in
due form of l[-]w, says, that the foregoing state-
ment is true i[-] every paticular where the facts
are stated as coming under his own personal
observation, a[-]d where the language of others
is quoted the [-]xact sentiments and as near as
possible the exact words are given in every
instance.
	In testimony whereof I have hereunto sub-
				scribed my name and affiixed
		[SEAL.]  my Notarial Seal at my office
				in Salt Lake City, Utah Terri-
				tory, the day and year afore-
				said.
			(Signd). 		JOHN T. CAINE,
							Notary Public.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


At the rece[-]t commencement of London
University thir[-]y girls were made bachelors.
Several of them took high honors, Miss Mary
Madeline Adam on taking first honor as bachel-
or of science ov[-]r her male competitors.  One
young woman w[-]o took a prize in medicine is 
described as lo[-]king "as if surgery in her 
hands would nee[-] no anaesthetics."
	Mrs. Joshee, t[-]e Hindoo lady who lately
graduated from t[-]e Woman s Medical College
of Pennsylvania, has carefully preserved her 
caste since comin[-] to this country, since if she
lost it, she could [-]ot be of professional use in 
high-caste familile[-] in India on her return 
home.  Every pa[-]ticle of her daily food she 
has cooked for her[-]elf, and has served herself
at table.
	The following l[-]tter, addressed to Professor 
Maria Mitchell, te[-]s its own story:
		DANVERS, Mass., 3rd Mo. 31, 1886.
	My Dear Frie[-]d:—I hear thou art rais-
ing funds for the [-]assar Observatory.  I en-
close check for— just to show my good will,
as I am unable to [-]ake a subscription in ac-
cordance with my [-]ishes. Hoping that thy
efforts will be suc[-]essful, I am thy sincere
friend,
	JOHN G. WHITTIER.


3
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A GOLDEN WEDDING DAY.

To Bro. and Sister M. I. Horne on the Fiftieth Anniver-
	sary of their wedding day, May 9th, 1886, with the
	sincere congratulations of the author, Mrs. Emily
	H. Woodmansee.

	Think of fifty years departed
	Since as plighted mates ye started—
	Coupled friends so happy-hearted—
		Hand in hand life's wedded way!
	All the birds their songs commingled,
	All the bells of nature jingled,
	Earth with teeming gladness tingled,
	In that joyous month of May.

	Fifty years of married glory
	Tell their interesting story:
	Hail! ye wedded vet'rans hoary,
		With such olive branches crowned;
	Love's delightful off rings bringing,
	Children's tongues your praise are singing,
	Yea, like bursting buds upspringing,
		Generations gather round.

	What a wond'rous retrospective,
	Food indeed for minds reflective,
	What a host of souls collective
		Lend their lustre to your name.
	Endless glory from a kernel;
	Endless lives and power eternal;
	God's own precious gift, supernal,
		The supremest wealth and fame.

	Bards might laud in language glowing
	This grand boon of heaven bestowing
	Ever wid'ning, ever growing,
		Inexhaustible the theme.
	Could my simple strain befit it,
	Time and space will not permit it,
	Time and space prescribe a limit
		To the poet's loftiest dream.

	Back my wand'ring fancy glances,
	Tracing all the great advances
	Dimly seen by seers in trances,
		That our natural eyes behold.
	From the birth, or restoration,
	Of the plan of full salvation
	Promised to this dispensation,
		You have seen what seers foretold.

	You have witnessed such progression,
	That in spite of man's transgression,
	Leads us all to this confession,
		Wonderful our age and fate!
	Giant strides the world has taken,
	Narrow grooves are now forsaken,
	Sleepy souls must needs awaken,
		Or be counted out of date.

	Schemes and plans, by skeptics scouted,
	Are established facts undoubted;
	Science every foe has routed,
		In this looked-for, longed-for time.
	Swiftly as with eagles' pinions,
	To earth's uttermost dominions,
	Fly the messengers of mercy
		To the meek of every clime.

	As the prophet bards predicted,
	Truth with error has conflicted;
	Faithful Saints have been afflicted,
		Fierce and furious is the strife;
	Hunted oft and persecuted,
	Oft from hard earned homes uprooted;
	You have borne the brunt of battle
		Nearly all your wedded life.

	To the scornful, proud oppressor,
	Zion bows, yet heaven doth bless her;
	All the foes who now distress her
		One by one will pass away
	Banished be the sound of sadness,
	Dedicated unto gladness—
	For the sake of love and friendship—
		Is this "Golden Wedding Day."


AN ADDRESS TO MR. AND MRS.
	HORNE.

	To write at a time so potent with events, and
produce something that may charm, edify and
amuse, I fancy would tax the ability of the


most adept scribe, but an effort sometimes has
resulted in a great success. We have by invi-
tation assembled upon this occasion to partici-
pate in one of the great events in the lives of
the family of Bro. and Sister Horne. Our
numbers are many, yet scores there are of their
friends that are not able, from different cir-
cumstances, to be present, and we are reminded
that some of those are their dearest friends,
deprived of this right through oppression's
hand; were it not so we doubt not that our be-
loved President, John Taylor, and others
would be here.
	To mingle with such a throng—truly we can
say it is an occasion rare. These, their chosen
friends, have endured, and are numbered with
the people of God, and having thus the varied
experience of years, none but Saints can
feel for and talk to the inmost soul better than
these tried and proven ones. While we min-
gle our spirits together on this enjoyable oc-
casion, may we be reminded that it is a fac
simile of a union, and a friendship which we
hope to continue while eternity lasts.
	I will here say to the members of the family,
may their works and faith so blended be a tie
to hold to this earth's embrace their parents
dear, as long as life shall be desirable, and may
their offspring each aspire to be the noblest
and the best.
	In conclusion I will here present to Sister
M. I. Horne a gold thimble, with her name en-
graven, on this memorable occasion, as a mo-
mento of friendship.
	DR. E. S. BARNEY,
	In behalf of several sisters.
Salt Laks City, May 10th, 1886.


FAULT-FINDING.

	One of the greatest faults connected with
this people is that of "fault-finding." We are
all too liberal in showing to the world the
faults and weaknesses of our fellow beings.
	Why do we not stop and scan our own
selves and see if all is well—if we have not
the misfortune to possess some little trifling
faults, perhaps unperceived by us, still plainly
visible to others? faults that, however small
they appear, will balance equally with the
larger, and seemingly more important fault in
our neighbor?
	We are but weak mortals, prone to do evil,
to be guided by the splendor and hollow
mockery of the outside world, to stray from
the path of rectitude, to forget Him from
whom all blessings flow; the hearer of our
prayers, the one born of meekness and love,
who died for the redemption of a world, that
frail, erring man might live; live to multiply
in iniquity, to erase, as much as possible, from
the mind the deeds of love and kindness, of
goodness and truth, sown by the hand of that
Supreme Being who sacrificed so much for
mortal man. "To err is human," but can we
not repay Him in a different way? Can we
not cease to complain of the faults of others
to criticise our own lives and actions with mo[---]
scrutiny, to wield an influence over our [---] so-
ciates worthy of imitation, an influence [---] that
only the good and pure are capable [---] wield-
ing? Yes, I think so.
	Let us cease all such immora[-] habits, and
form in our minds resolves of reform; let us
place, in the distant future [---] mark to guide
us as we journey on through [---] life, and with that
mark in view, let us stre[---] along our pathways
deeds of love, of kindness and of truth, that
we may thereby lay up treasures in heaven,
where "moth canno[-] corrupt, and thieves break
through and stea[-]."
		HYACINTH.
	Alpine, April 30, 1886.


NO CHANCE FOR PRODIGAL
DAUGHTERS.

	If the prodigal son had been a prodigal
daughter there would have been no fatted
calf killed.  She would have crawled in at the
back door, and on her knees begged simply
for a crust and shelter, knowing that these, if
accorded at all, would be accorded most grudg-
inly. She would have known that if the
parents were willing to kill the fatted calf
that the neighbors would not come to the
feast.  The opinion of centuries would have
borne on her with such crushing weight as to
cause her to hide upon the approach of her
old-time friends had they desired to approach.
The women of the neigborhood would have
refused to meet her.
	And of the men?  They would probably
have been willing to meet her, but how few of
them would have met with manly intentions
of uplifting and upholding her?  Not one out
of fifty.  The great bulk of them would have
met her with the intention of dragging her
still lower.  This is a truthful statement of
woman's position as compared with man's.
Man is an important factor in the household,
in society and in the State.  There is much
rejoicing when man is born; he is worth sacrific-
ing for; he is worth forgiving when he slips
from the path of rectitude.  But his sister is
of less importance; she makes a misstep and is
lost; she is of no value to the State; she is not a
money producing factor in the household; she
is a dependent and adds to the family cares, and
when she falls she is hardly worth saving. If
she attempts to reform what has she to reform
to? "It is felt by herself and her friends that
she never had any independence to lose, and,
therefore, she has none to regain.—Our Coun-
try,		HELEN WILMANS.
	New York.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Dr. Dio Lewis died lately at his home
in Yonkers, N.Y., of erysipelas, after a shor
illness.
	Mrs. Mary A. Livermore has been seri
ill, but at the last accounts is getting beption
	Mrs. H. L. T. Wolcott gave and Mrs.
recently at the Vendome to M
Joshee.
	[---]d as United
	Frank H. Dyer was con[-]ry of Utah in
States Marshal for the Te[-]
Washington, May 28.
	[---]the M. E. Woman's
	Two lady physicianiety, in Northern India,
Foreign Missionaryted last year 28,253 pa-
and one assistant.
lients.	
	[---] Andrews gets praise in high
	Miss Janner latest book, "Ten Boys who
quarters [-]e Road from Long Ago to Now."
Lived o says, "It is the best child's book I
Whittad." James Parton described Miss An-
evers as the best teacher in the world.
	Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney at the Annual 
Meeting of the New England Woman Suffrage
Associations, said she had never before so deep-
ly felt the deep injustice toward woman of not
giving her a voice as to the legal and moral
safety of her own children. The latent con-
victions of the men and women of this Com-
monwealth need to be aroused as to the im-
portance of the suffrage question in relation to
the welfare of children, as well as on the 
question of temperance.


Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending May 18th, 1886, as follows:
Gracie S. Roberts, Rockville Centre, N. Y.,
Sewer-pipe.
	Amanda E. Stout, Lakewood N. J., Shoul-
der-brace.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 1, 1886.


[Column 1]
	HOME AGAIN.

	At last, after an absence of some months,
traveling hither and thither, up and down, visiting
scenes of interest and places specially dear on ac-
count of childhood's associations, clasping the
hands of those of our own kindred from whom
we had been many long years separated, and so-
journing sometimes temporarily among strangers,
it is partiularly pleasant to be at home once more
among the Saints, and to meet the kindly and
cordial welcome from familiar friends and acquaint-
ances, in addition to the embraces of the loved
ones of our own household. The city, too, is in
its most beautiful attire, and the air is fragrant
with the perfume of roses and honeysuckle, and
everything seems to denote happiness and com-
fort, and nature rejoices upon her thousand hills
and in her peaceful vales. Zion is indeed beauti-
ful, as we have often described it to those we met
while away, and such a delightful feeling as one
has in one's own mountain home and among the
Saints—so different to that which a "Mormon"
has to meet in mingling with the world outside,
who are so filled with prejudice and bitterness to-
wards those who have accepted the doctrine of
celestial marriage. The present crusade against
this people has had its influence in embittering
many who were before prejudiced, and the an-
[---]gonism to the doctrines in which we believe and
[---]hich this people have made many sacrifices,
The [---] increased during the last seven years.
and ye[---]er of the nation seems to be aroused,
who, bec[---] are many honest thinking people,
Mormonism [---] of the persecution waged against
are making in[---] anxious to know tht truth, and
parent to the wo[---] s, below the surface, that is ap-
Gospel is being tat[---] In this way, unwittingly, the
to those, who, perha[---] and the opportunity given
any inquiry to know co[---]might never have made
themselves and to decidening the doctrines for
or against.	heir own minds for
	We met people often that
"Mormon" woman, and who hd never seen a
any plural wife could be either c[---]no idea that
fined. However, altogether, journe[---]ated or re-
as we did, there was seldom anything u[-] about
except occasionally the bitterness manife[-]asant
individuals. One thing we can say, which mby
be astonishing, and that is the people w[-]
treated us best and seemed to interest themselves
most in learning of our faith and practice were
those of the finest culture and highest attainments
educational and social.
	Newspaper reporters make capital out of Mor-
mons: the situation at present is a fertile subject,
and the more extravagant the articles the better
they take with the masses, who swallow down
any scribble if it is sensational, no matter how
highly colored or far from the reality it may be.
There is something new in this generation, at
least, when a man marries women and makes
them honorable wives, and provides for his chil-
dren instead of keeping them secretly, and dis-

[Column 2]
owning his own offspring, as is so often done in
the world,. And when women are so unselfish
and self-sacrificing as to wish for other sister-
women to have the same rights and privileges they
themselves enjoy, only such a state of things is
scarcely to be credited by the women of the
world, who fancy they possess the unqualified
affection of the husband and cannot for a moment
countenance the idea of any other women hav-
ing part or lot in either the affection or attention
of the man, who is in their estimation at least,
wholly and solely their very own.
	Knowing as society women must do the many
serious evils that exist, and that mar the peace
and happiness of many a household, and indeed
break up and often utterly destroy domestic
tranquility therein, yet these very women who
realize the situation have no idea of helping by
the sacrific of their own selfishness to aid in
solving the great social problems that agitate the
public mind, and that cannot, nor never will be
remedied without woman's actualy assistance. No
great effort for the higher advancement of the
human family can ever be permanent without
woman as well as man taking part in the earnest
endeavor. And for the sake of so great a good
the equality of all women to the rights of home
and maternity, may not women of large hearts
and generous souls be willing to endure the scorn
and ridicule, that is sure to follow the introduc-
tion of any new and strange theory, which con-
flicts with the established traditions and customs
of the country. There are a thousand objections
brought forward to prove the position taken by
the outside world that monogamy is the natural
relation of men and women, and however strong
the testimony of an individual may be to prove
the doctrine of a plurality of wives, when argu-
ment fails on the side of monogamy "the law of
the land" and the "sixty millions of people who
have made up their minds," is brought forward
as the climax, and that is thought to be the end
of all controversy. There is this difficulty, which
seems apparent through all, a sort of vague fear
lest there might be something in it, and therefore
those who are puzzled about the matter want to
convince themselves that there is no need for
alarm, and indeed that there is nothing in it.
Then why trouble about the matter at all, if it is
so weak it has no strong props to uphold it, and
if there is nothing anywhere to substantiate such
strange doctrines, they will very soon be forgotton
and sink into oblivion. But this very fear, or
dread, or horror, that it might be true, is what
many of those who are so furious in denouncing
it are greatly afraid of. It is like the lady who,
having been among this people sometime, and
having seen and heard a great deal of doctrines
and practices, was greatly afraid there was
something which demanded obedience to princi-
ple in the "Mormon" faith, and said "I have to put
my "Mormon" books in the very bottom of my
trunk, and I dare not read them lest I should be
converted!" And lest they should actually ac-
cept a faith so intensely obnoxious to the
prejudices and traditions of the world, they de-
nounce it violently and circulate every sensational
report that has ever been sent abroad, and thus
try and pacify their own consciences and justify,
the selfish course they pursue. 
	There are many progressive thinking women
w[-] advocate reform in the connubial relation,
who e plainly that there is imperative need of
a radi[---] change, and advocate that woman be
more the [-]istress of her individual self—with
time at her [---]osal of improvement and advance-
ment in the g[---]at questions of the age and the
hour, but do not d will not see that with the op-
portunities given in [-]lural marriage she may not
only fulfill the first geat commandment, fill the
measure of her creatio[-] and satisfy the natural
desire for motherhood, but [-]ithal have that larger
freedom from the daily and continuous routin

[Column 3]
that is often wearisome and a barrier in the way
of woman's intellectual culture. There are many
good physiological reasons why a plurality of
wives would be elevating to society if practised
according to the laws of purity and chastity; but
it must be from exalted motives, and consequent-
ly only those who are willing to sacrifice for the
sake of a noble purpose are ever likely to accept
it as a rule of life. Therefore, there is little fear
of its being wide spread in the United States, and
the great law makers of the nation have samll need
of puzzling their brains to obstruct its operations,
for when forty years have passed since the Revela-
tion was given, and so few, comparatively, of the
Latter-day Saints have been willing to enter into
it with all its conditions and consequences, it
seems absurd in the extreme to suppose it will
supplant monogamy.
	Mrs. Angie F. Newman, the agitator for an In-
dustrial School in Utah, and who recently ap-
peared before the Senate Committee on Education
and Labor, and made something of a sensation by
her eloquence, is the woman who sometime ago,
it will be remembered, lectured in Cincinnati on
the "Mormon" question, making the most absurd
statements. The Cincinnati Enquirer, containing
notes from her lecture taken by the reporter for
that paper, was sent to the writer at the time, and
in an editorial in the EXPONENT, published imme-
diately after, we quoted her own words as pub-
lished in the Cincinnati papers forwarded to us.
Some comments made upon the subject at the
time by a Gentile lady in that city were also used
in the same paper, and Mrs. Newman was con-
fronted with these facts when she made her first
call at this office in 1884; also with the articles
written by young women, giving their views upon
plural marriage, and some practical experiences
in their own homes, and indignantly protest-
ing against any interference with their
domestic relations. Mrs. Newman's quotation
from the WOMAN'S EXPONENT in the Committee
Room shows how she misrepresents. The clip-
pings sent in a letter to us in Nov. 1883 were
from the Commercial Gazette as well as the Cin-
cinnati Enquirer, and accompanied by a letter as
before stated, it was from this letter she quoted,
and tries to palm the whole report off on to a
"Mormon" scribe. Does the "Commercial Ga-
zette" or "Cincinnati Enquirer" keep a "Mor-
mon" reporter to take notes at Anti-"Mormon"
lectures? We presume not. That is far-fetched,
but there are Gentile ladies who have listened to
Anti-"Mormon" lecturers and felt disgusted,
knowing the unfaithfulness of many men in the
"marriage relation," and the depths of bitterness
in the hearts of the wives of such men. But Mrs.
Newman and other women who quote from their
own lectures and the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
should be careful to do it correctly, and not blame
"Mormon" reporters or "Mormon" Editors for
sentiments uttered by those who sat and heard
them and have no interest whatever in making
mis-statements.
	We are very sorry for Mrs. Newman that she
should use her talents to injure and oppress those
who have sought all the day long to keep the
commandments of God and obey the Golden rule,
because she will have to account for the talents
given her, and to whom much is given, from him
much will be required. There are plenty of
women in the world who need help and assistance
but "Mormon" women are very independent, and
will take care of their own without assistance
from the Home Missionary Society, and the mem-
bers of Congress know pretty well that the
women of Utah who helped to settle and beautify
the desert have taught their children to be self-
reliant, and they do not need Mrs. Newman to
speak in their behalf. If Mrs. Sara Andrews
Spencer could not, with all ehr impresive elo-
quence and strong arguments, induce Congress to
appropriate mo[-]ey to establish such a house right


in the District of Columbia it is not at all likely
Congress will make such a liberal appropriation
r the Territory of Utah.


5
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of the Salt Lake Stake will be held on Friday,
June 25th, in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. It is
expected there will be a verbal report from each
Society in the Stake, either from the President, 
her counselor, or some other officer.
	FROM Mrs. Sarah Sears, eleventh Ward, we
have received a large and handsome bouquet of
choice flowers, which came soon after our arrival
in the city, and for which we were deeply grateful.
There is nothing more expressive of sentiment
and affection than these silent messengers, that
are so beautiful to the eye, and so grateful to the
sense in the sweet fragrance they bring. What
would the earth he if it were not for the flowers?
The cultivation of them gives one a touch of
kindliness and delicacy, for they require the most
perfect care and constant attention. Mrs. Sears
has a charming variety, and her success with
plants, vines and shrubbery is no doubt owing to
the thought and tender care bestowed, and they
have repaid her well.
	TO MRS. M.O. KELTING, of San Bernardino,
we wish to express grateful acknowledgements for
a box of beautiful flowers received during our ab-
sence in mid winter, and most fully appreciated
by the girls, though mother was not at home.
Orange blossoms and roses at a time when the 
earth was mantled with snow came like blessed
harbingers of the happy future, and brought
sweet thoughts and tender memories to cheer the
hearts of all. The sentiment which came as a 
sort of introduction or tie between giver and re-
ceiver, was beautifully suggestive.
	"If but a pure drink of water is given in love
and sympathy it may prove a true link in the chain
of our union. The good Giver will take care of
his own children. Yours in faith as pure as the
contents of this can.—M. O. K.
	ANOTHER Home Book has been printed and
issued here, that is suitable for the libraries of
our young people's associations. The Author is
Elder John Nicholson, and he wrote the book
during his imprisonment in the Utah Penitentiary.
The story is "The Martyrdom of Joseph Stand-
ing," and is perfectly true. The details were re-
lated to the writer by Rudger Clawson, and are
extremely thrilling and pathetic, and should be
perused by all the youth of Zion. Beside the narra-
tive, the book contains a graphic description of
the Utah Penitentiary enclosure and buildings,
its management and prison fare; also a brief
sketch of each of the brethren who have been in-
carcerated there for conscience sake, or because
they have practically accepted the principle of
plural marriage, and believe it to be a divine
theory. The "Conclusion" by the author is very 
finely written and very impressive, and cannot fail
to have an effect upon any one who will read it.
	THE Deseret University commencement exer-
 cises were held at the new University building,
May 27th. The Chancellor and Regents occupied
the platform with the Professors and His Excellen-
cy, Governor West. Prof. Weighe led the
orchestra, which discoursed sweet and select
music. First of the programme, Wm. Allison, of
Coalville, delievered the Valedictory; next, an ad-
dress by Dr. J. R. Park, Principal of the institu-
tion, to the Normal graduates; then a song by
Mrs. M. F. Bassett—"Once Again"—one of her
best efforts. The second part of the programme
opened with an essay by B. F. Howells, "Influ-
ence of Passion." T. D. Lewis read an essay on
Socrates. Prof. Park addressed the graduates in

[Column 2]

the Scientific Course; they were the first to re-
ceive the degree of Bachelor of Science in the
history of the University. After this, excellent
music by the orchestra, then an address by
Chancellor O. F. Whitney. Governor West
made a brief extempore speech. The entire pro-
gramme was an excellent one, and there was a
great deal of applause. The Iniversity singing
class rendered a fine serenade, and Regent Stewart
pronounced the benediction. Dr. Park, in his
address, gave a concise history of the Deseret
University—establishment, growth and progress,
which we intend to publish; we shall also publish
the addresses of the Chancellor and speech of
Governor West.


[Column 1]

RESPONSE OF THE "MORMON"
PRISONERS.

TO GOVERNOR WEST'S OFFER OF CONDITIONAL
AMNESTY. THEY PREFER PERPETUAL
IMPRISONMENT OR DEATH TO
DISHONOR.

	UTAH PENITENTIARY,  May 24, 1886.
To His Excellency, Caleb W. West, Governor of
Utah:
	Sir:—On the 13th instant you honored the in-
mates of the Penitentiary with a visit, and offered
to intercede for the pardon of all those enduring
imprisonment on conviction under the Edmunds
law, if they would but promise obedience to it in
the future, as interpreted by the courts. Grati-
tude for the interest manifested in our behalf
claims from us a reply. We trust, however, that
this will not be construed into defiance, as our
silence already has been. We have no desire to
occupy a defiant attitude towards the Government.
or to be in conflict with the Nation's laws. We
have never been even accused of violating any
other law than the one under which we were con-
victed, and that was enacted purposely to oppose
a tenet of our religion.
	We conscientiously believe in the doctrine of
plural marriage, and have practiced it from a 
firm conviction of its being a divine requirement.
	Of the forty-nine Elders of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints now imprisoned
in the penitentiary for alleged violation of the 
Edmunds Law, all but four had plural wives from
its passage to 35 years prior to its passage. We
were united to our wives for time and all eternity
by the most sacred covenants, and in many in-
stances numerous children have been born as a
a result of our union, who are endeared to us by
the strongest paternal ties. 
	What the promise asked of us implied you de-
clined to explain, just as the courts have done
when appeals have been made to them for an ex-
plicit and permanent definition of what must be
done to comply with the law.
	The rulings of the courts under this law have
been too varied and conflicting, heretofore, for us
to know what may be the future interpretations.
	The simple status of plural marriage is now
made, under the law, material evidence in secur-
ing conviction for unlawful cohabitation, thus, in-
dependent of our act, ruthlessly trespassing upon
the sacred domain of our religious belief.
	So far as compliance with your proposition re-
quires the sacrifice of honor and manhood, the
repudiation of our wives and children the viola-
tion of sacred covenants, heaven forbid that we
should be guilty of such perfidy: perpetual im-
prisonment, with which we are threatened, or even
death itself, would be preferable.
	Our wives desire no separation from us, and
were we to comply with your request, they would
regard our action as most cruel, inhuman and
and monstrous, our children would blush with
shame, and we should deserve the scorn and con
[---] of all [---] and honorable [---]

[Column 2]

	The proposition you made, though prompted
doubtless by a kind feeling, was not new, for we
could all have avoided imprisonment by making
the same promise to the courts; in fact, the pen-
alties we are now enduring are for declining to so
promise rather than for acts committed in the
past. Had you offered us unconditional amnesty;
dearly as we prize the great boon of liberty,
it would  have been gladly accepted; but,
we cannot afford to obtain it by proving untrue to
our conscience, our religion and our God.
	As loyal citizens of this great Republic, whose
Constitution we revere, we not only ask for, but
claim, our rights as freemen and, it from neither
local or national authority we are to recieve equity
and mercy, we will make our appeal to the Great
Arbitrer of all human interests, who in due time
will grant us the justice hitherto denied.
	That you may, as the Governor of our import-
ant but afflicted Territory, aid us in securing
every right to which loyal citizens are entitled,
and find happiness in so doing we will ever pray.

AS WITNESS OUR HANDS,

LORENZO SNOW,		GEO. C. LAMBERT,
ABRAM H. CANNON,		GEORGE H. TAYLOR.
HUGH S. GOWANS,		HELON H. TRACY,
RUDGER CLAWSON,		JAMES MOYLE,
WM. WALLACE WILLEY,	HYRUM GOFF,
DAVID M. STUART,		H. DINEWOODEY,
HENRY W. NAISBITT,		JOSEPH MCMURRIAN,
L. D. WATSON,			HERBERT J. FOULGER,
CULBERT KING,			STANLEY TAYLOR,
WM. D. NEWSOM,		JAMES H. NELSON,
WILLIAM GRANT,		FREDERICK A. COOPER
JOHN PRICE BALL,		JAMES O. POULSEN,
AMOS MAYCOCK,		ROBERT MCKENDRICK,
OLUF F. DUE,			ROBERT MORRIS,
JOHN Y. SMITH,			SAMUEL F. BALL,
JOHN WM. SNELL,		S. H. B. SMITH,
HENRY GALE,			GEO. B. BAILEY.
THOMAS C. JONES,		NEPHI J. BATES,
JOHN BOWEN,			JOHN PENMAN,
WM. G. SANDERS,		THOS. BURMINGHAM,
ANDREW JENSEN,		WM. J. JENKINS,
JOHN BERGEN,			THOMAS PORCHER,
JOSEPH H. EVANS,		C. H. GREENWELL,
JAMES E. TWITCHELL,	W.M. H. LEE.


ANOTHER STRONG TESTIMONY.

EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	After a number of weeks silence it is with 
grateful heart that I can again take my pen to 
give expression to a few of my thoughts, thanks
to Him who suffers us to be stricken and afflicted 
occasionally that we may learn the needful lessons
more fully, and to practice the virtues of patience, 
and endurance, and to say, "In Thee alone I 
trust." A lesson that all must learn sooner or
later, and nought but experience will ever teach
it. That no one may infer from this that I am sad
and desponding, I will say that, though I have
been seriously ailing, and enfeebled in body, hope
has never deserted me, nor the interest which I
have so long felt, in this glorious cause. 
	No one need despair when there are so many
rich blessings laying within their reach, shedding 
forth rays of hope and gladness to cheer the
hearts of all who have a mind to grasp them. Even
the lowliest hovel may become a paradise when
adorned by these treasures one which a gold mine
could not purchase, nor all the Anti-"Mormon" 
crusaders, or judicial powers that the evil one
may send, have the power to rob them of. To such
even the monster death is shorn of its sting. 
Though we as a people are being scourged, and
can look for no clemency from the earthly powers
that be, no community ever had greater cause for 
gratitude for the numerous mercies that are being
bestowed by the hand of a kind indulgent Father, 
in these days of death, and destruction, which is
being dealt out without [----] to the inhabi-


[Column 1]
tants of this once blest and peaceful land, as well
as to all the nations of the earth, bringing de-
vastation and ruin on every side, and the most
apalling distress to all classes, and we know that
this is just the beginning. We cannot take up a
paper that does not tell us of disasters by land and
by sea, and destruction in the most terrible forms.
The tragedies that are being daily enacted by
mobs, "anarchists" and "strikers," etc. And the
latest horror is the tornado that passed over some
of the Western States, from whence we were so
cruelly banished after being treated in the most
brutal manner by fiends in human shape. Even
that part which passed over Ohio on the night of
the 15th, published in the Deseret News of the
17th inst., is enough to curdle the blood in our
own veins. The destruction of lives and property
and the suffering which it has wrought cannot be
estimated. "Trees were uprooted by the acre,
and hundreds of orchards are completely gone,"
and even whole towns are swept away. Two or
three story brick houses were taken up like feath-
ers and dashed to pieces. "Feathers were torn
from chickens. Trees were stripped of their bark,
the ground was plowed up," and the "terrific time
on an express train threw every passenger into a
paroxysm of fear. The sleepers were transformed
into dens of wildly excited men and women." In
Seneca County one man declared that the air was
filled with balls of fire. He saw a strange light.
Others corroborate this story and say that the
light under the dark cloud looked like that from a
large gas well." I have barely touched upon the
scenes described in that one telegram. All these
things we understand to be among the judgments
that were to come upon the earth in the last days,
and which every Latter-day Saint ought to read
and profit by, that they may escape the wrath of
the Almighty, and not be found among those
who know not God, and do not acknowledge His
hand in all things.
	All these things serve to remind us of the past
and of the Prophet's words after we had been so
mercilessly treated in the State of Missouri—not
because of polygamy, but because we differed
from other sects in religious principles, and our
petitions to Congress were unheeded. That if
this nation did not repress those wrongs "the
time would soon come when they would have
mobbing to their hearts content." The Lord
commanded that His servants should importune
at the feet of the judges, the Governors and the
Presidents, which they have done faithfully from
that time to the present. "And if the President
heed them not," He said, "then will the Lord
come out of his hiding place and in his fury vex
the nation. And in his hot displeasure, and in
his fierce anger, in his time, will cut off those
wicked, unfaithful, and unjust stewards, and ap-
point them their portion among hypocrites, and
unbelievers, even in outer darkness, where there
is weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth.
	Though we are now witnessing His fierce
judgements no true Saint—notwithstanding they
are suffering under the bitter injustice, that is be-
ing done to them by this nation, could gloat over
anothers woes, or wish for them to suffer in re-
taliation. But they pray for those who despite-
fully use them, and are fighting against their Re-
deemer, that their eyes may be opened to their
true condition, and the frightful debt that is ac-
cumulating against them in persecuting an inno-
cent people. For the meek and long suffering
have a sure promise that notwithstanding the
persecutions, which were needful to purge out
iniquities from among them, as no plan would be
untried to overthrow His Kingdom He would
strengthen Zion in the valleys of these mountains
and bring deliverance to His people. Their
wicked snares will take only those whom the
Lord has designed that they should, and every-
thing we see and hear is calculated to increase
our faith, and serves as an assurance that these
whom the world hate are the favored of God.

[Column 2]
What then have we to fear when His arm is out-
stretched in our behalf only to disoby his com-
mands? For He said, "He that seeketh me early
shall find me, and shall not be forsaken. And
after your testimony cometh wrath and indigna-
tion upon the people."
	In the Revelation and Prophecy given through
him in 1832 concerning the war between the
Northern and Southern States, which has been
fulfilled in part, we find the following. "And it shall
come to pass after many days slaves shall rise up
against their masters, who shall be marshalled
and disciplined for war:
	And it shall come to pass also, that the rem-
nants who are left of the land will marhall them-
selves, and shall become exceeding angry and
shall vex the Gentiles with sore vexation.
	And thus, with the sword and by bloodshed,
the inhabitants of the earth shall mourn; and
with famine, and plague, and earthquakes and
thunder of heaven, and the fierce and vivid light-
ning also the inhabitants of the earth be made to
feel the wrath and indignation and chastening
hand of an Almighty God, until the consumption
decreed hath made a full end of all nations; that
the cry of the Saints, and of the blood of the
Saints shall cease to come up into the ears of the
Lord of Sabaoth, from the earth, to be avenged of
their enemies.
	Wherefore, stand ye in holy places, and be not
moved until the day of the Lord come; for be-
hold it cometh quickly, saith the Lord. Amen."
						H. M. WHITNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
REFLECTIONS UPON GOV. WEST'S 
VISIT TO THE PENITENTIARY. 

	Blessed are the peace-makers, for they shall be called
the children of God. 

	How forcibly these words came to my mind as I 
read of Governor West's visit to the penitentiary. 
He was so sincere and energetic in his attempt to 
make peace between the two parties known as 
Latter-day Saints and Gentiles, or in other words
our people and the Federal officials. 
	Governor West has given his attention to the
laws of his country, and perhaps to that alone. 
Is he blind to the weakness of human nature, and 
the frailty of man when left to himself, without
the aid and inspiration of an all wise Providence, 
who sent His Son with laws to educate and pre-
pare all who will accept His message to come
again into His presence? 
	For twenty-four years I looked at the subject as
Governor West does.	* 	* Since that 
time I have resolved to accept the message sent
us to prepare for a reign of peace, taking the 
laws of Jesus Christ for my guidance, which do 
not in any way conflict with the Constitution and
Declaration of Independence we all love so dear-
ly. It is now forty-four years since I began to 
apply my mind to this rule of action. The first
was like learning the alphabet, and placing
the letters together to make words; the next, our
Savior's law, was like the study of mathematics. 
If you enjoy this study and obtain the spirit of its
author, your mind will become enlarged by it, you
will develop the germ of the Diety, which all pos-
sess to a greater or less extent; then you find you
can solve and understand the designs of our
Father as readily as you can solve the problems of 
arithmetic. Each one who knows the rule can
solve and understand the same alike, if in posses-
sion of the same spirit of truth and intelligence. 
	The joy and satisfaction this gives every lover 
of true principle is incalculable, because of its
divinity. We feel that our course is upward and
onward, and that this theory, practically developed, 
will bring us again into the presence of our Elder
Brother, the Savior of the world, who said in holy
writ, "If you keep my Father's laws, you shall be 
heirs and joint heirs with me."
	How awkward should we feel to be placed in 

[Column 2]
this position, without the same light and intelli-
gence which He, the Savior, has in His posses-
sion. Accordingly, we must apply our minds to 
the same rule of action to obtain the same result. 
It would be childish to suppose anything else; yes, 
worse than children, for they in their purity are
fit for the kingdom of God. 
	How could we, after becoming acquainted with
these laws, and knowing the result of the same, 
lay them aside and do as Judge Zane told Brother
Smith he must—"serve the finite before the Infi-
nite." We serve the Infinite when we do good to 
the finite, for it is written, "He who says he loves
God and hates his brother, is a liar and the truth
is not in him."
	We feel that we are serving God in every good
act we perform, and that His smile is resting upon 
us in approval; we also feel, when we have an eye
single to His glory, that we have the light and
intelligence of His Holy Spirit to guide all our
efforts. With this faith and assurance how could
we give up our religion and again accept the
vague systems of Christendom, who ignore and 
reject so much light and intelligence? No, never!
death itself would be preferable to such a gloomy
picture as this. 
	In my opinion Governor West would do a work
to his saticfaction, and also to all others concerned, 
if he could reconcile the people to observe and
obey Christ's sermon on the Mount, given by 
Jesus, the Savior of the world, which, when kept
in all sincerity of heart, will produce a reign of 
peace on the earth. Let us look at this subject in
the light of reason and common sense, and we 
will not fail to see this is a correct idea. 
								M. E. K.
Logan, May 21st, 1886.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)
	I here produce a few extracts from a letter
written by Father Whitney to his sons Horace
and Orson, then with the pioneers, which he
wrote June 14th, 1847, and directed as fol-
lows:
	Camp of Israel in the West.
MY SONS HORACE AND ORSON:
	I have just started a team for the mountains.
*	*	I intended to have sent two or
three teams and wagons, but the mill dam go-
ing down stream a few days since, I could not
procure bread stuff for more than one wagon,
and that is in charge of Bros. Archibald Hill
and Stillman Pond. They have for you near
two hundred pounds of flour and one small
cheese, say eight or ten pounds, if you need it.
Should you not want all the flour, take as much
of it as will do you and let them keep the
balance, as they are rather scant of bread stuff.
If my team should meet you on your return
you will give Bros. Pond and Hill a list of all
my property which you may have left the
other side of the mountains, and in order that
they may get possession of it, and take care of
the same until I come, and give them all the
instructions you can about matters appertain-
ing to my business, etc., in that country, as
they have gone expressly to attend to my busi-
ness, as also their own. It is a general time
of health in this place, but there are quite a
number of poor on our hands, which makes it
rather hard times; but as we have a large
quantity of grain growing, we hope we shall
be able to do better by them by and by. We
have been hindered in starting a company
early, as anticipated when you left, in conse-
quence of not being able to procure a sup-


[Column 1]

ply of bread stuff sufficient to warrant it, and
some other reasons might be assigned. 
	We have concluded to fit out but one com-
pany to the mountains this season, and it is ex-
pected that it will consist of not less than from
four to five hundred wagons, from the present
calculations, and the most of them will be un-
der the necessity of taking the greater part of
their grain unground. Bro. Eldredge takes a
pair of small mill stones with him, and the
necessary irons, etc., to set a mill in operation 
by horse power or otherwise, in a short time
after his arrival at the place of destination. 
	Your mother has written you at some length, 
she says, and it is therefore unnecessary for me
to touch on any matter except business, but
would say that you have our prayers night and
day for your prosperity in all things, as also all
of your company, that you may prosper and
return safe to us this fall, and I am sanguine
you will. But remember to be prayerful and
show yourselves approved before the Lord, and
heed the counsel of those whom the Lord has
ordained to give counsel, and it shall be well
with you. This from your father, who blesses
you in the name of the Lord. 
	This is confidential, but you can show it to
H. C. K. if you choose. 
		N. K. WHITNEY.
	P. S. Give my good wishes to Bros. Brig-
ham and Heber and all the others; tell them
things are right in the main, and it is a hurry-
ing time, as usual, or I would have written
them; but I suppose their families have written
them fully on all matters. May the Lord
bless you all.	N. K. W.
	Early in October Bro. William Clayton, 
with a few others who had preceded the camp
of pioneers, arrived at Winter Quarters, weary
and worn down by travel, and having been for 
some time destitute of provisions, and depend-
ent solely upon the killing of wild game for
subsistence. They were a sorry looking set, 
and words would fail to express our feelings
when we saw them in such a ragged and for-
lorn condition, and were told that they must
be eight or nine days in advance of the main
company, but every one being interested, they
went to work with a will, the women cooking, 
browning coffee and preparing every good thing
that our limited means would admit of. There
was no rest nor sleep till every thing was 
ready to start, and many a loving message
commenced in the midst of it looking till far
into the night to finish. It had been so long
since there had been any communication be-
tween us, and some of us were in doubt as to
our husbands being with them, as some, we
were told, had gone to California, and the feel-
ings that thrilled our hearts under such vari-
ous and trying circumstances can be better im-
agined than described; but we did not allow
our fears to stand in the way. Every one did 
all in their power, and it was something sur-
prising how quickly two wagons were loaded—
one for father and another for President Young
—with grain and vegetables, all of the latter
that could be taken, or whatever could be
mustered in the way of provisions. I had two
apples, which I packed up carefully with 
bread, cakes and various little parcels—one
apple for Horace and the other for Orson,
though this particular circumstance had
passed from my recollection till reading of it
in my husband's journal with other things re-
ceived from his father, via., Wm. Kimball—
he driving father's team, and George D. Grant
the President's. In a short letter, hastily
written by Sister E. B. Whitney, the present
Editor of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, who acted
as scribe, Mother Whitney expresses herself
as follows:
	"We are all well, and hope and pray you
are, but we have neither flour nor meal, and
have not had any for several days, or we should

[Column 2]

have baked something to send you so we send
you a bag of sea biscuit and a cheese, with a
little coffee and sugar.	*	*	The
greatest comfort I have had in your absence
has been in getting alone to pray for you, that
you might be blessed, and I have always been
blest in so doing. I can say that almost my
very breath has been prayer for yon ever since
you left us, that you might return home in
safety, and nothing hinder or harm you.	*	*
May the Lord bless and preserve you and re-
turn you safe to us, is my constant prayer for
you—be faithful and diligent in prayer.
I will not write any news, for I shall want to
tell you that when you come. I must close, so
good bye.
		YOUR MOTHER. 
	On the morning of the 8th of October we
bade our brethren good bye with a prayer to
Him who had preserved us as within the hol-
low of His hand, to speed them on their way
to the relief of our fathers, husbands and
brethren, and let their lives be precious in His
sight, and strengthen them, and also their
teams, that they might not perish on the
plains, bnt be spared to meet us once more.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

TWENTIETH WARD PRIMARY.
	The Twentieth Ward Primary Association
held their fifth annual meeting April 21st,
1886, Prest. Emma Toone presiding. After
the usual opening exercises, the following pro-
gramme was carried out: Recitation, Hugh
Sainsberry; Recitation, Isabell Romney; Song,
Irene Daynes; Recitation, Elliot Airnet; Reci-
tation, entitled, "Order Rule," by the Associa-
tion; Duet, Mary Smellie and Olive Simmons;
Essay, "Punctuality," Lizzie Prichard; Recita-
tion by four small boys; Song, Ettie Calder;
Dialogue, Levi and Willie Richards; Recita-
tion, Katie Sansome; Duet, Ida and Lennie
Savage; Reading, Edgar Nelsen; Essay, on
"Baptism," by Annie Airnet; Song, Rose
Romney; Dialogue, George Ottinger, Ralph
Cutler and Ellen Hilton; Recitation, Pauline
Held; Organ Solo, Bell May; Recitation, by a
number of small boys and girls; Recitation,
Alice Evans; Questions were then asked by
Miss Alice Phillips and answered by the child-
ren, Song, by the Association. Brief remarks
were then made by Sister Ellen Clawson, Bro.
Dunbar, Sister Presendia Kimball, Bro.
George Romney and Sister Howard. Duet,
by Alice Clowes and Eva Ellis.
	Bro. C. R. Savage said, "I want to offer some
prizes next year; one for the best writing of
any little boy or girl in the meeting, one for
the best drawing and one for the best needle
work. I pray God to bless Sister Toone, all
who assist her, and you little children."
	Sister Wells, Prest. 13th Ward Primary,
and Bros. Richards, Sansome, Nelsen, May,
George Romney, Jr., and Charles Wright ex-
pressed themselves as being highly pleased
with the good order. The last two named
gentlemen had formerly been members of the
Association, and testified to the good they had
derived from attending the meetings.
	Sister Davis, Prest. of 21st Ward Primary,
related an instance showing how to be truly
happy.
	Meeting adjourned for one year. After the
closing hymn, Bro. C. R. Savage pronounced
the benediction, and refreshments were passed
round.
	In the evening the parents and a few of the
friends of the children assembled in the school-
house and had a sociable time together. Af-
ter singing and prayer, the following pro-
gramme was rendered: Speech, Bro. Dunbar;
Song, Miss May Romney; Reading, D. R.
Lyon; Song, John James; Remarks, Sister Toone;
Address, Bro. Geo. Romney; Remarks, O. Sharp.

[Column 2]

Refreshments were then passed round, and
general conversation ensued. Song, Miss
Fannie Savage; Speech, C. R. Savage; Remarks,
Bro. Puzey; Song, Peter Elliot; Recitation,
Geo. Romney; Song, Samuel Allen; Recitation,
C. W. Stayner; Organ Solo; J. J. Daynes;
Speech, Wm. Eddington.
	C. SHARP, Sec.

	BLOOMINGTON.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A few lines from the Y. L. M. I. A. of Bear
Lake Stake will be welcome, no doubt, know-
ing your paper to be an able supporter and re-
presentative of woman's rights and privileges,
as we understand in the fullest and most com-
plete sense of the word.
	There are at this date eleven organizations in
active operation, presided over by Mrs. N. G.
Pugmire, a daughter of the late Charles C.
Rich, who, by her untiring efforts and unflinch-
ing energy to advance the interests of the
young people of this Stake, has won the love
and confidence of all with whom associated.
Her watchword has ever been "come" to all,
and thus her influence has been felt rallying
to the front. There are enrolled 347 members,
with a fair average attendance. We have
ninety-nine volumes of good reading matter,
costing $121. Our Stake receipts amount to
$377.10; disbursements. $280.69, $230.59 of
the amount was donated to the Logan Temple.
We have a stake paper, entitled, "The Literary
Garland," in which each association is repre-
sented in our meetings of Literary Exercises,
held annually.
	Spiritually we are feeling well, although
somewhat isolated, and deprived of the associa-
tions and instructions that they enjoy down in
the other valleys that are more easy of access.
We could but think, when reading the farcical
termination of the Snow Case, before the Su-
preme Court of the United States, in regard to
the infamous rulings of the Utah Court, that
it was in keeping with the general treatment
of the Saints by this boasted grand republic.
But all is well, for God lives, and he will bring
them and the nation, who so persistantly
fight against Him, to the punishment they
merit, and whether it be sooner or later it mat-
ters not to us, as long as we do our duty, and
keep sacred the covenants we have made.
	Last August we were favored with a visit
from Sisters M. I. Horne, E. S. Taylor and S.
M. Kimball. We hope to see them again ere
long, for they brought with them words of
cheer and comfort, which built us up, and we
felt to thank God that we were associated with
so noble a band of sisters, and from the depth
of our hearts we say, "God bless them; may He
be merciful to them and lengthen out their
days, that they may for many years to come
continue the noble labors they are now en-
gaged in."
	Politically, the horizon looks dark, and, as you
are aware, we are almost helpless, owing to
that imfamous test oath, passed at the setting
of the last Idaho Legislature, depriving all
who have certain religious convictions of the
privilege of casting a vote.
	Coun. Alice M. Rich is still suffering from
acute rheumatism, and although afflicted now
over a year, and unable to travel in the inter-
est of the Stake, as in the past, she feels patient
and resigned, and willing to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in this affliction as in other
things. I see by the last Deseret News that
you have reached home again, after an absence
of several months, in the interests of the down-
trodden women of Utah.
	L. M. HART, Stake Sec.

	RIVERDALE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Conference was held at


[Column 1]
the residence of Mrs. Bybee, May 13th, 1886, 
there being forty-one members present. After
the usual opening exercises, the minutes of
the previous conference were read and ap-
proved. We next heard the statistical and
financial reports, which showed that the sis-
ters were doing a good work financially as
well as spiritually. We listened to an excel-
lent programme, which gave the sisters great
credit who took part therein. The first was
"The Young Ladies' Instructor," read by the
Editor, Martha Stimpson, which contained
a great many good instructions. One essay
worthy of mention was the one written by
Mary Stimpson upon "Usefulness;" next an
Essay by Nellie Child, following which was a
Dialogue by five members of the Association;
we were next favored with a Song, entitled, 
"Nearer Home," from Jessie McDonald; the
last on the programme was a lecture from the
Bible, by Eliza W. Child. The speaker lec-
tured from the second chapter of the Epistle
of James, stating that we should not think too
much about riches and respect rich persons
and despise the poor, but rather be kind and
merciful to all, and ever strive for a living
faith, such as Abraham had. 
	Prest. Russell: The Lord is pleased with us
when we try to do right, and to attend our meet-
ings while we are blest with health and strength
thought if we would all try to fill our part in
the meetings we would be more able to keep
the Spirit of the Lord with us. Was pleased
to see some of the elder sisters in our midst;
asked the Lord to bless all with His Spirit. 
	Coun. Bybee felt thankful to see so many of
the sisters present, that we might rejoice to-
gether and call down the blessings of the
Lord; felt to say, "God bless the sisters in their
undertakings." The young and new begin-
ners were blessed and would be in trying to fill
their part in the meetings. We should visit
the lonely and try to comfort them in the ab-
sence of parents and friends; asked God to
bless all, that they might speak by the Spirit 
of the Lord. 
	Coun. Bingham was pleased to be among 
the sisters again; felt to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in all things; asked the Lord to
bless us with His Spirit, that we might continue 
in the good work we had begun. Singing by
the Association, after which Sister McDonald
bore her testimony to the work of God; felt to
uphold all the officers in the Church, and to
continue to do good so as to obtain an exalta-
tion in the kingdom of God. 
	Sister M. Mitchel said she had not premedi-
tated anything to say. The Lord has been
kind and merciful to me in giving me a testi-
mony of this work, which I am happy to bear.
The Spirit of God will be withdrawn from
use if we do not live our religion as we ought
and as we have been taught. Thought it very 
difficult to speak to an audience of Latter-day
Saints, and we needed the Spirit of the Lord. 
	Sister Hannah Child bore a true testimony
to the work of God; felt always to try to do
His will, and asked to be dictated by
His Spirit what to say, both to the old and
to the young. We should heed the prompt-
ings of the Spirit of the Lord; prayed continu-
 ally that she might be able to set a worthy ex-
ample to those who were around her. 
	Sister Annie Bybee said she had a testimony
to bear. Asked the Lord to grant us the de-
sires of our hearts, and to hear and answer
our prayers. We should not go ahead of our
leaders nor their teachings, but heed their
counsels and strive to obey them. 
	Sister Dye had been well pleased with the
[-]rogramme, and felt it had been rendered by 
[-]he Spirit of the Lord. May God enable us
[-]o perform the duties placed upon us.  
	Sister Bingham said she felt to put her trust
[---] the Lord, and asked Him to dictate her
[---]at to say. Had always desired to live hum-

[Column 2]
ble and prayerful, and prayed for wisdom to
guide her. This was one of the greatest bless-
ings God could give his children. We should
not get careless in our duties, nor be negligent, 
for if we are the Lord will punish us by allow-
ing us to suffer persecution. We must try to
prove ourselves worthy of the blessings of God
and to look over each other's weaknesses. We
should try to assist the priesthood in all things
and look after the poor; we have been blessed
of God for our good works, and we must give
Him thanks for his guidance. It is wisdom to
study the welfare of each other; we should
bear with each other and have charity for all. 
Desired to be able to keep the commandments
of God, and be subject to those placed over us. 
	Prest. Russell said, "We have had the Spirit
of the Lord in our midst; had often felt
the Spirit of God in our meetings. If we are
faithful and prayerful we will be blessed in
sickness; we all have weaknesses to overcome, 
but we should put our trust in the Lord. We
need great faith and wisdom in raising our fami-
lies." Exhorted all to try to attend Sunday
School. 
	The officers of the Association were then
presented for approval. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Coun. Bingham. 
			ELIZA W. CHILD, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	The wings of turkeys, geese, and chickens are good for
washing and cleaning windows, as they leave no dust or
dirt on the surface of the glass.
	It may not generally be known that if the sauce pan in
which milk is to be boiled be first moistened with water, it
will prevent the milk from burning.
	The Way To Clarify Soup.—Just before the soup boils
the scum that has risen to the top during the process of
heating should be carefully removed. A little cold water
poured in will assist the particles that compose the scum to
rise. After the soup has boiled it should be strained; this
may be repeated; then if the soup is not as clear as you
would like to have it, mix one egg and its broken shell
with a teacupful of cold water, then to this add about a
teacupful of the hot soup, then stir it all into the boiling
soup; let it boil up well, then set the kettle upon the back
part of the stove, and when it is somewhat cool strain it.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,   -   25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.   "
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		  $1.00  "
     "       Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
	      of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25  "
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of 
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -  1.50  "

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of 
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
[pointing finger icon] CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
[pointing finger icon] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on a short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to. 
[pointing finger icon] Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

 [Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.
[Text on the Left Side of Image] Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!
[Image of a Sewing Machine]
[Text on the Right Side of Image] Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any
other Sewing Machine. It has been 
in the Market 23 Years.
[Text Below Image] Young Brothers,
38 Main Street, Old Constitution Building.
SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic."

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1865.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
[pointing finger icon] We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
AT  TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

