[Joy Here and Hereafter by Marianne C. Sharp]

JOY HERE AND HEREAFTER or turn away into darkness. Of the Savior himself it is recorded, "though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered" (Hebrews 5:8). In spite of the sorry state of the world, Latter-day Saints cannot allow themselves to be crushed by their worries and cares, but, instead, we must remember the great purpose of man's existence on earth as declared by Lehi, "Men are, that they might have joy" (2
Nephi 2:25). Joy here and hereafter should be the daily and eternal goal of Latter-day Saints. The Prophet Joseph Smith stated the aim of existence in these words, "Happiness is the object and design of our existence; and will be the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to it; and this path is virtue, uprightfaithfulness, holiness, and keeping all the commandments of God" (D. H. C. V, pp. 134-135).
What are a few of the principles by which we should live to experience this joy? One, fundamental to our happiness, is to acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all the trials and sorrows which may come to us, for he declares, "And in nothing doth man offend God, or against none is his wrath kindled save those who confess not his hand in all things, and obey not his commandments" (D. & C. 59:21). By so doing, even with our mortal understanding, sometimes we can discern a purpose. But when we cannot, we must accept adversity as we accept good fortune, knowing that these things are all for our experience and refining.
Contrast this attitude which engenders joy with that of an unfortunate person who lost a loved 723 member from the family circle.
Because of the sorrow of the family, the person decided that no loving Heavenly Father would permit such suffering. 'This attitude finally resulted in a denial of the very exist-.
Ence of God and in discarding the light of the gospel.
There was an utter lack of appreciation shown by this person for the great principles of sacrifice and suffering. 'There was no recognition of the suffering of the Father himself at seeing his beloved Son undergo the agony of Gethsemane and the cross, that thereby we all might receive eternal joy. If we would have joy, we must accept the truth that sacrifice and suffering are essential to our progress and are to be borne with fortitude and a cheerful heart. HOw often in Holy Writ does the Lord admonish us to be of good cheer and to do things with cheerful hearts and countenances. To make the best of any situation we may find ourselves in makes for happiness. I recall the instance of a sister who nursed a paralyzed son for twenty years.
Never was she heard to utter a complaint either at her own lot or that of her son's. She served him not only with the loving devotion of a mother but with a cheerful heart and joy in her soul.
Only she and the Lord knew of her moments of travail, and surely he comforted her, for she always looked on the bright side of life and maintained her home in its former spirit of thanksgiving and gratitude. 'Truly she had found the _ mainspring of joy in her soul. If we would find joy, we must heed the Lord's word, "If thou art sorrowful, call on the Lord thy God 724 with supplication, that your souls may be joyful" (D. & C. 136:29).
Where else can we seek joy in sorrow but from the Lord? "Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.
For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light (Matt. 11:28-30).
I quote again from Alma, this time his counsel to his son Helaman:
And now, O my son Helaman, behold, thou art in thy youth, and therefore, I beseech of thee that thou wilt hear my words and learn of me; for I do know that whosoever shall put their trust in God shall be supported in their trials, and their troubles, and their afflictions, and shall be lifted up at the last day
(Alma 36:3).
God bless you mothers in Israel, and give you wisdom and understanding, patience and charity, and courage also, that you may not falter. May he bestow upon you that rare and priceless gift of discernment, that you may mark the betrayer long before he strikes and so frustrate him; that you may sense, even before your loved one is aware, that Satan is slyly whispering waywardness into the innocent ear so that you may drown that whispering with the voice of counsel dictated by love and wisdom.
God be with each and every one of you always, that you may meet to the full your divine calling of motherhood in Israel, I pray, in Jesus' name, Amen.

The Annual General Relief Society
Conference
October 1 and 2, 1952
General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering
THE increased number of presentation of the theology departstakes, with the consequent ment work on The Book of Morincreased number of stake mon. officers, made it advisable to hold Following this meeting five sepconference meetings, except five de- arate departmental sessions were partmental sessions, in the Taber- held from 2:45 to 3:45 p.m.: work nacle. There were 1557 represen- meeting; secretary-treasurers; Relief tatives present from the stakes and Society Magazine; music; and audio-
38 from the missions. (Mission visual aid guidance-a new departpresidents were not in attendance ment this year, at the conference.) All stakes ex- Wednesday evening the annual cept New York and Willamette reception for stake and mission ofwere represented. The general ses- ficers and board members was held sion filled the building, with many in the Lafayette Ballroom, Hotel persons standing. Utah. Music for this occasion was The Officers Meeting on Wed- furnished by Florence Allen, Maanesday morning was addressed by cah Taufer, and Lota P. Lamoreaux.
President Spafford, who gave Of- Thursday morning the discussion ficial Instructions, and by Elder of the educational program was Spencer W. Kimball and Elder continued— visiting teaching, litera-
Harold B. Lee of the Council of ture, and social science being prethe Twelve. The Singing Mothers sented. The "Harmony Strings/' of Hillside Stake, Jane Schultze, di- composed of Afton Solomon, rector, and Julia Smoot, accompa- Maacah Taufer, Afton Woffinden nist, furnished three inspiring num- and Rilla Rieger, accompanist, renbers. dered a beautiful number "Beside
At the Wednesday afternoon Still Waters." meeting from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m., The general meeting Thursday
Elder Matthew Cowley of the afternoon included addresses by Council of the Twelve gave an ad- President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Presidress, followed by a brass instrumen- dent Belle S. Spafford, Counselor tal selection, "Nephite Lamenta- Marianne C. Sharp, and Counselor tion" played by Sheldon Hyde, Velma N. Simonsen. Sister Emma
Keith Smith, Glen Dalby, Darro Ray McKay, wife of President
Glissmeyer, and Frank Carlyle, David O. McKay, gave an interestunder the direction of Elder ing account of their recent visit to George H. Durham. This was the European missions. This was a very impressive prelude to the followed by a short report of the Page 796

THE ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
797
Finnish Mission Relief Society by President Mae P. Matis who was in the United States on a brief visit.
Music was furnished by a Singing
Mothers chorus of almost six hundred voices, representing thirty-two stakes in Salt Lake, Davis, Weber, and Sevier counties. (This chorus also sang at the Friday sessions of the semi-annual conference of the Church.) Florence J. Madsen directed the chorus of Singing Mothers as well as the congregational singing of the conference. Elder
Frank W. Asper served as organist.
A welcome surprise at the general meeting of the conference was the announcement by President
Belle S. Spafford that the First
Presidency had granted a site for the Relief Society Building— the northwest corner of the block east of Temple Square, in front of the Joseph Smith Memorial Building.
The Official Instructions given by President Spafford and the talks by the general presidency were published in the November issue of the Magazine. The talks of President
J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Elder Harold
B. Lee, and Sister Emma Ray
McKay are presented in this issue; and the talks by Elders Spencer W.
Kimball, Matthew Cowley, and W.
Cleon Skousen will be published in subsequent issues.
Cshristmas [Preparations
Ruth H. Chadwick
We wreath our homes in tinsel And a blaze of colored light;
Then shop until exhausted
For gifts that look just right.
As days grow few and shorter,
We rush and slave away
To flaunt our costly trimmings
To all who pass our way.
But our numbed, neglected spirits
Pretend they do not know
They, too, should be all polished
And hung with mistletoe.
For when it's Christmas morning,
And all the Yule bells ring,
Will souls, veneered and calloused,
Have the will to sing? ibncompassed in the [Rays
Doiothy J. Roberts
Through cities' maze, past sleeping host,
They threaded tangled ways:
The wise in lore were never lost,
Encompassed in the rays.
Upward, outward, ringed in light,
They brought life-burnished gold
And broke the fast of darkened sight
In holiness's fold.
Bring then the myrrh of sacrifice;
Let cameled faith go far
Till that discernment of the eyes
Shall recognize the star.

Fast Offerings and the Welfare Plan
Elder Harold B. Lee
Of the Council of the Twelve
[Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 1, 1952]
AFTER that superb prayer of- Let it never be said of the Latterfered by Sister Lyman at the day Saints that they did not allow beginning of this meeting, I their business to be done by the am sorely tempted to change all voice, the majority voice of this that I had planned to say and fol- people. Make certain, so far as lies low along one line of the thinking within your power? that the great of that prayer, but I shall curb that majority 0f our peopie express themand satisfy what I want to say by sdves at the polls at each election, reading to you merely two or three and the one which is forthcoming verses from the inspired instruc- is no exception. I urge you to hear tions of King Mosiah on the sub- the prayer of Sister Lyman and see ject of voting. Sister Lyman has ap- that it is answered in the good pealed to you as the leaders of the works of your organization.
„--..', , L, ■ r certain other related matters. Back
Therefore, choose you by the voice ot T this people, judges, that ye may be judged Jn \935 I wa* given an assignment according to the laws which have been by the First Presidency, which was given you by our fathers, which are cor- to become the beginning of my rect, and which were given them by the service in what has recently, and hand of the Lord. since that time^ been known as the ..-.'. Ll Church Welfare Plan.
Now it is not common that the voice . of the people desireth anything contrary A Church-wide survey had been to that which is right; but it is common made the September previous to for the lesser part of the people to desire 10^r in which a report had been that which is not right; therefore this shall asked as tQ the number of Church ye observe and make it your law — to do , , . . ., your business by the voice of the people, members who were receiving aid from the Church or from public
And if the time comes that the voice agencies, and the amount in dollar of the people doth choose iniquity, then per capita costs to be COntputed. is the time that the judgments of God xne reSults of this Churchwide Siir-
(Mosiah 29:25-27). asked to compile them and to bring
Page 798

FAST OFFERINGS AND THE WELFARE PLAN
799 back to the First Presidency certain deductions as a result of that study.
I made the study as best I could with help of others of the brethren who were called into the service, and found that if all of the Church members would pay at least $1 per capita fast offerings, that there would be, then, a total amount in the hands of bishops to duplicate what had been done for that previous period survey in caring for the needy, both by the Church and by public agencies.
When that report was read (that is where this grievous $1 per capita came into the picture), some people assumed that if they paid $1 per capita that they had paid a full fast offering, which was never intended to be the fact or the instruction, but it was merely a way of figuring what might be possible if everybody paid at least $1 per capita.
,fITHEN I made my report to the First Presidency, pressing the fact of the $1 amount that would come from the proper observance of fasting and the payment of fast offerings, President Grant brought me, I thought, upstanding by a remark, in which he said, "Now, I am not primarily concerned with the amount of money that comes from paying fast offerings; but I am primarily concerned with the blessings that will come to this Church if our people observe the law of the fast."
With that remark ringing in my ears, I went back to make a careful study of what fasting would mean, financially or temporally, and spiritually to this people. I asked myself the question, "What is the law of fasting?" and I found President
Joseph F. Smith defining it in these words in which I thought was given a rather excellent interpretation:
It is, therefore, incumbent upon every
Latter-day Saint to give to his bishop, on fast day, the food that he or his fa mily would consume for the day, that it may be given to the poor for their benefit and blessing; or, in lieu of the food, that its equivalent amount; or, if the person is wealthy, a liberal donation, in money, be so reserved and dedicated to the poor.

And then I asked myself, "What are the blessings the Lord promises us from fasting and paying fast offerings?" President Grant in an expression which is on record, gave me these answers: first, the financial blessing and next, the spiritual. This is what he said, regarding the financial blessings:

Let me promise you here today that if the Latter-day Saints will honestly and conscientiously from this day forth, as a people, keep the monthly fast and pay into the hands of their bishops the actual amount that they would have spent for food for the two meals from which they have refrained . . . we would have all of the money necessary to take care of all the idle, and all the poor.

Of the spiritual blessings he said this:

Every living soul among the Latter-day Saints that fasts two meals once a month will be benefited spiritually and be built up in the faith of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ—benefited spiritually in a wonderful way.

As I read that statement, I recalled what the Prophet Isaiah had declared as to the blessings that