[Report and Official Instructions by Belle S. Spafford]

Report and Official Instructions [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 1, 1952] President Belle S. Spafford T is now my pleasure and privilege to present to you a brief report of the status of the society as revealed in the 1951 annual reports, as well as to bring to you a few suggestions to aid you in carrying forward the work along approved lines.
Organizations and Reorganizations At the close of 1951 there was a total of 188 stake and forty-two mission organizations, an increase over 1950 of eight stakes and one mission.
Records reveal at the close of 1951 a total of 3,177 local Relief Societies, an increase of 196 over the previous year. We sincerely thank the sisters who have presided over the stake and mission Relief Societies and who are now relieved of this responsibility. We appreciate their services. We extend to the sisters who now hold these positions our love and best wishes for success and joy in their new labors. — Missions The United States missions are contributing materially to the strength of Relief Society in all aspects of the work. We especially recognize their accomplishments in visiting teaching, compassionate services, and Magazine circulation.
Reports from foreign missions are heartening. The basic purposes of the society are being kept well in mind and the work directed toward their fulfillment. 
Membership Relief Society as a whole made a substantial membership increase of 5,901 during 1951, giving us a total of 132,451 members. We commend you for your efforts to enlist new members, particularly young mothers. A number of you have changed the time of meetings to morning or evenings to suit the convenience of young mothers with small children. In many instances this has proved helpful; in a few cases it has not achieved the desired results. We are wondering if in those instances in which it has been unsuccessful if the change of time was based upon a sufficiently thorough knowledge and sound appraisal of the need for change. Evening Relief Societies With regard to evening meetings, we recognize that in some wards they are definitely to be preferred or are even essential to a successful Relief Society. However, we must also recognize that there are certain problems incident to them. We should hold evening meetings only when a survey of the membership or a careful and sound determination of the ward situation shows it to be the time most convenient for the greatest number of eligible members within the ward.
Generally speaking, daytime meetings are to be desired for mothers.
Most mothers, particularly those with adolescent children, need to be in their homes with their families at REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS night; frequently our older sisters cannot attend at night, and they must be considered; in wards scattered over a wide area transportation to and from meetings at night becomes a problem; visits by stake leaders become limited, and when distances are great, they may have to be discontinued; evening does not lend itself to complete work meeting activities, while visiting teaching and most of our welfare work must continue as daytime activities. Evening Union Meetings Evening ward Relief Societies are frequently officered by women who are employed in the daytime, which precludes attendance at a daytime union meeting.
These officers need and desire union meeting help and have appealed to stake officers to hold this meeting at night.
While we recognize the value accruing to ward officers from the union meeting and regret to see any officer denied this help in the conduct of her work, we feel that the needs of the few who cannot attend in the daytime scarcely warrant bringing the many out at night. We, therefore, encourage you to hold daytime union meetings. Of course, in those instances where the Relief Society departmental session of the stake leadership.
Meeting is considered as the union meeting, the meeting of necessity would be an evening meeting. Average Attendance Average attendance at the regular meetings for the general membership showed an encouraging increase of 5.76 per cent.
There is in attendance at regular meetings _ 729 an average of 45,524 women. 'This, we realize, is only thirty-four per cent of our enrolled members, but it represents the largest increase we have had for several years. Visiting Teaching We are deeply grateful for the marked increase in the number of subscriptions to The Relief Society Magazine in 1951. The number rose from 92,598 as of December 31,
1950, to 104,210 as of December 31,
1951, or an increase of 11,612.
Increased costs of paper, printing, and handling the Magazine gave grave concern to the general board at the close of 1951 regarding the maintenance of the subscription price at $1.5-6. While the future in costs remains uncertain, it would seem that with such an increasing number of subscriptions, the subscription price can be maintained at the present rate of $1.50. While the future in costs remains uncertain, it would seem that with such an increasing number of subscriptions, the subscription price can be maintained at the present rate of $1.50 per year.

The Relief Society Magazine continues to maintain its place as one of the finest women's magazines published. The articles are of high caliber, the stories and poems of excellent quality, and the lessons outstanding. We are proud of our magazine and feel that it is making a real contribution to the women of the Church and to women everywhere who read it.