[Adventure in Glass: VI. Twentieth Century Glass by Alberta H. Christensen]

Adventure in Glass VI. Twentieth Century Glass Alberta H. Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society INCE there is no date at which we can say, "This point marks the beginning of modern glass," it is perhaps wiser for us to consider glass of the twentieth century, pointing out those departures from the current trend and those features which are new and original in feeling. 'This we can say of twentieth century glass, mechanization of the industry has created an unequaled standard of quality and precision, and the original designs of able artists have given it uncommon distinction.
Glassmaking in Europe The movement which is responsible for so much of today's fine glass began at the turn of the century in France. 'Through the designs and techniques used by such men as Galle, Dammouse, and Henry Cros, which were radically different from those of the established French factories, attention was again brought to the potentialities of glass. Rene Lalique, a _ distinguished jeweler in Paris during the 1890's, was also one of the great contributors to modern glass.
Abandoning precious stones in a search for a less expensive material adaptable to his art, he began experimenting with glass and found it so fascinating that within a few years he was working entirely with it. Lalique, truly a man of this century, did not Share the craftsman's horror of mechanization, but used machines  wherever possible to make his designs available to the public.
During his versatile career, he made entire walls, doors, tables, small statues, necklaces, and even automobile radiator ornaments out of glass. He often used frosted and opalescent effects.
Perhaps more than any other individual, Lalique made the modern world aware of decorative glass. Baccarat, one of the older European glasshouses, known since the eighteenth century for excellence in glass production, has also contributed much to modern glass. In recent years, Chevalier (Georges) has been retained as a designer, and striking sculptural pieces in purest crystal have been made. Daum, also a French glass company, less known but long admired in Europe, has been making massive crystal pieces, often decorated with bubbles.
Items from the Daum factory were exported to an admiring American public in the early part of the century.
Sweden is the second great center for contemporary glassmaking in Europe, Kosta and Orrefors being the best known factories. 'The Kosta factory is one of the oldest in Europe, having celebrated its 2ooth anniversary. Its modern designs are usually done in colorless glass worked into the metal. Orrefors, a much younger company, which began by producing commercial glass, has contributed much to the modern development of glass. By ADVENTURE IN GLASS SSS 3
Metropolitan a
PALE BLUE GLASS BOWL
Engraved Design by Simon Gate Swedish (Orrefors Factory) Twentieth Century 1917, Simon Gate and Edward Hald were directing the art policy of the company, the latter cultivating the art of engraving to a rare degree of excellence. 'Today his neo-baroque masterpieces are unrivaled for design and execution. The death of Gate in 1945 deprived the world of one of its truly great designers. Before leaving Northern Europe we should mention two important women designers. One is Gerda Stromberg, who is responsible for the glass produced in her sons' factory near Orrefors (Sweden), and the other is the brilliant Gunnel Nyman of Finland, whose untimely death occurred recently. The best known glass from Holland comes from Leerdam, which has for years turned out a fine crystal as well as colored glass in clear shades of blue, green, and gray. The factory maintains a school where designers are trained and where they can observe the actual making of glass. This factory, besides its regular wares, makes one-of-a-kind pieces called "Inica." England and Belgium have done relatively little experimental work in the past fifty years, but both coun- 743 tries have maintained a high standard of production. In England the scene has long been dominated by such illustrious names as Webb, Brierly, and Whitefriars. Of these Whitefriars has shown the greatest tendency toward original and modern design. Austria and Czechoslovakia have long been important glassmaking centers. Such designers as Horejc and Stefan Rath are well known for their work in Austria's Lobmeyr glasshouse, and the Moser Company, in Czechoslovakia, is outstanding for its colored glass and crystal. Mention of Italian glass to most of us means one word—Venice. And it really is from the Venetian works at Murano that most of the fine Italian glass comes. Italy, a maker of beautiful glass through the centuries, has maintained the steadiest tradition of glassmaking of all European countries. Murano has never been known for large Metropolitan Museum
CLEAR GLASS MARINER'S DISH
Engraved With Signs of the Zodiac Designed by Sidney Waugh Steuben Glass Works, Corning, New York, 1904 14 factories, but for the small independent glasshouses and their artistic, skilled craftsmen.
Glassmaking in America Cut glass was the major output of the American flint glasshouses around 1900.
Great quantities of this ware, good, bad, and mediocre, _ flooded the market at a time when glass was no longer valued for its fluid quality, but for sparkle and splendor.
Much of the glass of 1880, which can be admired for its fine metal and careful workmanship, was later copied in the cheapest of pressed glass. 'Tablewares became thicker and heavier. By 1910 cut glass was the prized possession of every bride, but, except for the more expensive pieces, good design had been replaced by poorly executed stars, pinwheels, and prismatic slices on mediocre metal, and shaped by pressing. However, glass cutting has continued to the present day, and, fortunately, much of it has been inspired by the fine craftsmanship of an earlier period rather than by its immediate predecessors. In fact, much cut decoration of the past thirty years has been really charming.
Becoming more and more abstract in design, rock crystal cutting continues in favor.
Color was revived after 1920, and it is today possible to purchase table glass for almost any color scheme.
Black and white in combination, ruby, blue, amber, and amethyst have replaced the pale pinks and greens of thirty years ago.
These are to be had in ordinary pressed glass and in the finer flint wares. At the turn of the century, Louis Tiffany invented a process for staining glass, which resulted in the  product called Favrile.
This glass had color variations of an irridescent nature similar to that given ancient glass by deterioration.
Tiffany was an experimenter, ranking with his French contemporaries, but, unfortunately, he had no immediate followers of note. ° It was not until 1933 that America again took a world-prominent place in the production of glass. Arthur A. Houghton, Jr. In that year founded the Steuben Division of the Corning Glass Works at Corning, New York, for the purpose of expanding the artistic possibilities of a brilliant crystal perfected at Corning. John M.
Gates was appointed director of design, and the sculptor Sidney Waugh became its chief designer. A distinct style, thoroughly American in feeling, and yet comparable to the best European forms, has been the result.
More recently, Steuben invited twenty-seven __ well-known artists, who had never worked with glass, to submit designs to Steuben's master engravers.
This stimulus and competition has shown America and Europe that glass is a medium worth the attention of artists in other fields. The designs of Thompson, Wier, and John Dreves have been interesting and original. 'This company has recently gone back to traditional.
Eighteenth century form for some of its pieces. It would be impossible to discuss the many glass companies that are giving us modern American glass, but we shall mention the beautiful original forms and the clear glass reproductions of eighteenth century techniques that are being produced at the Blenko Glass Works at Mil- ADVENTURE IN GLASS Metropolitan Museum
FAVRILE GLASS VASE
Louis Tiffany, New York 1875-96 ton, West Virginia. 'The work is done entirely by hand. It is also putting out glasses of original design, with a distinctly modern feeling. Some of these have simple applied ornamentation; others are self-decorated by large bubbles enclosed in the glass. A glass, shot with fine bubbles, is blown in useful forms in colors, including turquoise and chartreuse. ~ Utah-born Dorothy C. Thorpe, an unusually versatile woman, has been creating interesting new designs for glass, and her wares are eagerly sought throughout the country. One of her best loved designs is a graceful portrayal of the Utah State Flower—the sego lily. In keeping with the modern 745 movement as expressed in_ glass, Ameriean glassmakers are using the material in heavy masses (as done by the European designers years ago), and sculptured cutting is employed to modify the form. Angular contours often replace curves. Our large glass factories are making a variety of pressed glass items, but the mechanical process is rarely used (as done by Deming Jarves) for impressing a showy design, but rather to create new and _ interesting forms. By improved scientific methods, a high technical efficiency has been achieved so that modern table glass is certainly a thing of perfection. It is hoped that certain forms and techniques of our present period will be of such worth that they will become part of our glassmaking tradition.
CLEAR CRYSTAL VASE
Decorated With Air Spirals Formed Between Walls Steuben Glass Works, 1913 A Time to Forget
Chapter 5
Fay Tarlock
Synopsis: Serena Abbe, who works in San Francisco as a secretary, lost her fiance, Jim Towers, in the war. Unexpectedly, she inherits from her cousin
Harriett Lester, a walnut farm in the San Vicente Valley. On her first visit to the property, she meets Jeff Landeau and his son David, who live on the adjoining farm. Luis Trejeda, a Mexican, offers to help Serena with the farm work and she begins to spend all her spare time at the farm. She learns that Jeff's wife, Beth Henley, a wealthy woman in her own right, has been dead for more than five years. Serena makes friends with young David and her interest in Jeff Landeau increases, and also, she finds comfort in the wholesome and buoyant attitude which Luis displays towards life.
Finally, Serena decides to leave her work in San Francisco and make her permanent home in San Vicente Valley.
THE first day of the harvest began at seven o'clock, barely sunrise Serena was up in the cold at dawn, too excited to do more than merely taste breakfast.
Luis, who was working on the Landeau huller, left with a warning for her to supervise the picking near the flower beds and to distribute the sacks to the pickers.
Promptly Jeff drove his tractor and shaking machine into the orchard. Behind him trailed the crew to handle the shaking and poling.
Fascinated, Serena watched the cables adjusted to the limbs, and the tractor started.
The trees quivered like live things. Then the nuts came down in a brown rain. Serena ran and gathered some in her hands, loving the feel of the satiny shell, freed
Page 746 from its tight hull by last night's shower, the first of the year. Then she remembered her dream and laughed in pleasure.
She watched the pickers move in, men, women, and children. It was like a processional as they left their cars and approached the trees with their trailing buckets. When they came to the trees, they dropped to their knees and for a moment their laughing voices were still.
There was music in the steady rhythm of the nuts, the emptying of the buckets, and the quivering trees. The branches that yesterday had drooped wearily with their burden, stood out in the cool air, straight and free.
You won't have to work so hard now, drawing those gallons of water up through your roots, Serena thought, as she watched a tree divesting itself. It was good to be a nut grower. She felt alive and full of hope, as if she had lived long for the fulfillment of this day.
By noon of the fourth day the shaking crew was gone. Only the pickers, a little quieter, were there.
Dusk, and they left the orchard empty, save for rows of bulging sacks to be picked up in the evening. Each night the big Landeau truck came through the orchard; and each morning, the nuts, cool in their sacks, were poured into the huller. Here they were washed and scrubbed, the culls sorted from the sound ones, and all placed in the drying racks of the dehydrator

A TIME TO FORGET
747 sheds. From here they went to the big plant at Valley Oaks. Soon she would know the financial return.
"Your orchard and mine/' Jeff told her on the fourth day as he left for lunch, "have always had some of the highest grade nuts in the valley, but this year it may be a different story. From the crack test so far they won't make top grade." He picked up a nut from the gravel and cracked it with his white teeth. "See!" He held out the meat halves, one deep ivory in color, the other a golden brown.
"They taste just as good, but they ought to be whiter."
HPHAT night rain was predicted.
By morning dark clouds scudded overhead, and strong winds blew all day. The following morning the ground that had been so smooth and firm was dark and soft.
Under the trees the walnuts lay thick, almost as if the trees had not been shaken. Whenever the rain stopped, Serena, in old shoes, gleaned the nuts. Luis could not help. He would be working the huller for weeks more, as Jeff Landeau moved his crew from one orchard to another, each day more anxious to be done before more storms came.
For two weeks Serena gleaned, until her bones ached at night.
Week ends, friends from town came out to help Most of what they picked, they carried home.
Serena broadcast invitations to friends to come out for their winter's supply of nuts. When her vacation ended, she was in the orchard a few minutes each evening after she got home, anxious to fill a bucket before dark. Now the nuts did not mean money, they meant something precious to be saved so that people could enjoy them.
A big rain ended the gleaning.
It moved in on a high wind and seemed to stay forever. Day after day the rain poured down. For awhile the earth absorbed it, but soon the roads reverted to streambeds, and the orchards became lakes. Serena's lane was a sheet of water on which David's boat bobbed up and down until it was carried away by a new cloudburst.
The long drought was broken.
When the rains stopped for a time, the mists came in damp and warm. By late November the dun hills were green and the leaves hung green on the trees like midsummer.
Serena was home for a few days typing briefs for Mr. Green. It was eerie, sitting in the living room and looking out on the still, green world, shrouded impalpably by the gray mist. One day, tired of typing, she walked outdoors in the late afternoon. It was like walking in a dream, and for a moment she felt lost in the stillness.
Reality came to her with David, coming in his high boots through the orchard. She smiled, for he, too, was in a dream (In his extended hand he held a long stick. He walked silently forward, his eyes also lost in a world of his own. "Hi there, David!" she called. "Where have you been so late?" HE boy stopped still, his face turned toward her, the dreamlike quality still there. 'Then it dropped from his face like a discarded mask. He smiled politely, 

748 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1952 but she knew she had interrupted some play that had been more real _than reality. "I've been to cub scouts." started to move on. "I interrupted you.
What were you playing?" She detained him with her question. "I. Was an Indian _ stalking through the woods. You stopped me from getting a deer for my starving family." He was very serious. "T'm sorry." She was equally serious. "Can I make it up to you by giving you some cookies?" His eyes told her that it was foolish to think cookies could replace venison for starving Indians, but he followed her into the house. "You know," he said, munching cookies, "at school we are studying colonial times 'Tomorrow night I think [ll be a Puritan hunting a turkey for Thanksgiving, but I'd rather be an Indian." She kept him in the kitchen talking for as long as she dared. "After these cookies, I feel acquainted with you, Miss Serena. Pll stop by again if you'd like me to." He looked up at her, gentle and wide-eyed, as he said, "Maybe you get lonely like I do sometimes." "You shouldn't be lonely, David. You have your father and Delia." She laid her hand lightly on his soft, brown hair. "Oh, Dad's all right," the boy said, "but he's so busy most of the time that we don't have much fun.
Except on Sundays," he added loyally. "On Sundays he tries to be with me all he can. Delia's all tight, too, but she's just a second cousin, not a mother. I don't expect too much of her." He He looked at Serena, showing plainly that he was struggling with an idea. "How about you?" he asked finally. "You have Luis and lots of friends. I see them every Saturday and Sunday. We don't have many people come, just a few relatives.
Delia géts too tired to cook for friends." "Oh, Luis is all right,' Serena said, confiding to him in return, "but he's getting to be an old man, sometimes, tired, like Delia. And my friends are just here on week ends. Sometimes I think Id like some relatives instead." She smiled down at him. "If ever you are lonely on week days, remember I'd be glad to have you come." "TI do that." He held out his hand in parting. GHE watched him disappear into the mist-hung trees, an ache in her heart for the boy who was lonely, and an unacknowledged one for the woman who had no son. Jeff Landeau had been over once since the harvest. He examined her chart from a walnut association and told her about what her returns would be.
After the harvesting and dehydrating bills were paid, the remaining money would be too small for her to think of giving up her job.
Serena struggled with discouragement. She had a valuable piece of land, which she had to work hard to support. If she could do all the work except the actual harvesting... No, the idea was ridiculous. The hard labor of cultivating, pruning, and hoeing was not for her, and Luis was too old to do it all.
Office work was still her only solution. "Another year, a bigger crop, and A TIME TO FORGET a cooler summer, and it will be a different story," Jeff consoled her. For a time they had seemed on the verge of friendship, then he retreated again. She would have said that he occupied none of her thoughts, yet she sometimes found herself watching for his car to go up and down the lane. She recalled that for a good many years she had been as cold and indifferent toward life as Jeff Landeau. 'These last few months she was beginning to live again.
Life was giving her back half a loaf, and she was grateful for the half. One Friday in early December the rain came down in_ tropical downpours.
Serena decided to spend the night in her old apartment with Joan Givens. She would do her Christmas shopping on Saturday and complete plans for the Christmas party on the farm.
Four gitls from the office were coming for the long holiday, along with two other friends. On Christmas day a number of young men would come for dinner. It was to be a gala time. Saturday Serena shopped in the tain.
When she got up early Sunday morning it was still raining and there was a cold wind. She decided to start for home, stopping at Valley Oaks for breakfast and for church. But along the highway there were so many washouts and so much flooding that she decided to go home at once.
Luis was faithful, but there was a limit to his capacity. When Serena came to her lane she was really worried. 'The side ditch that Jeff Landeau had recently scraped and enlarged was no longer adequate. 'The lane was a 749 turbulent river; the orchards lay deep in water.
From the driveway she could see that her lawn and flower beds were flooded.
Rushing into the cold house, she called, "Luis, Luis!" He came from the basement, struggling with a bucket of water and wet to his knees. "Ah, Mees," he cried, relief fanning out over his tired face, "too much water, too much water.
Very bad!" E set the bucket on the kitchen floor and began gesturing and talking rapidly in Spanish. 'There was water everywhere, he repeated. Alarmed, she followed him into the basement. The water was seeping through the cement walls and floor. "Everything is ruined," he moaned in Spanish. "The furnace will not operate, and I do not know how to get out the water."
Serena was frightened. 'The water was rising steadily.
Stepping up on the basement stairs, she surveyed the havoc. "Buckets will do no good, Luis," she told him, shivering in the damp cold.
Tears streamed down the old man's face. "All night, Mees, I work. Too much water." She made some chocolate and toast and had Luis start a fire in the living room fireplace. His wet boots left marks on the rug. "Get into some dry clothes,' she told him.
Luis only moaned, "Too much water.
Everything ruined." He said it over and over, and his hands trembled.
They drank the hot chocolate together, huddling close by the fire. 
750 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1952
The wind blew harder, swaying the tall pines and the great oak on the edge of the lawn.
Rain lashed against the windows, _ bending the shrubbery and shutting off all view of the outside. "Pm sure the water is rising," She said more to herself than to Luis., She could imagine it swirling underneath the house and seeping up through the living room floor.
Luis must get into some dry clothes and she must get the water out. | "Tl call a plumber," she decided.
Even as she spoke she knew the uselessness of it. A hundred people must be ringing the same number.
Still she tried every plumber's number in the directory and got only one answer, a woman who said that her husband could not possibly come until tomorrow.
When she finally put the receiver into its cradle, she felt hopeless. LUS.
Warmed by the drink. And the fire, stopped trembling. "Ah, Mees," he said sadly, watching her face. "We've got to have a pump, Luis." She stood in the center of the room, pressing her cold hands together. "Do you know where we can get a pump?" Understanding, as sudden as lightning, came to Luis. "A pump, Mees, I know where."
With no more explanation, he tan from the room.
Serena saw him jump into her car and drive quickly towards the Landeau place. She had no more than built up the fire and changed into an old brown tweed shirt and a yellow sweater than he was back again.
Close behind was Jeff in the green pickup.
Jeff had on high rubber boots, a gray raincoat and hat. He looked strong and happy, as if he enjoyed the storm and was confident he could master it.
Waving to her in greeting, he lifted a small electric pump from the rear of his car.
Luis followed him into the basement, carrying a long garden hose.
Standing hopefully by, Serena watched them wade through the water to attach the pump and start it going.
Soon the water was shooting though the hose onto the flooded lawn.
Serena let out a long sigh of relief and a little color came back into her white face.
Jeff walked uninvited into the kitchen, stopping first to wipe his boots on the rug. "'That's the first time that basement's ever had water in it." He washed his hands at the kitchen sink. "Will the water keep seepin through?" | Jeff dried his hands with a paper towel. "I'm afraid it will if the tain keeps up. We reached saturation point a long time ago. You must keep the pump there and Pll rig up a device that will start it automatically."' "It's awfully generous of you. I was just about panic-stricken before you came." She smiled at him warmly, pressing her hands close to her sides in the sweater pockets to warm them. "You don't look much older than David," Jeff said, returning her smile. Serena's heart gave an unexpected leap.
This was a new Jeff lingering here in the cold kitchen and eying her with warm approval. '"Won't you come into the living room where there's a fire? I'll heat A TIME TO FORGET you a cup of chocolate as soon as I can get some dry clothes for Luis." She wondered if he would refuse, but instead he thanked her and went into the living room, as if he wanted to stay. | N the big bedroom closet on the top shelf she found an old suit she had thought too worn to give away.
Then she found her garden shoes, some woolen socks, and an old sport shirt. She handed them to Luis, who was shivering in the kitchen. When she came in with the steaming chocolate, Jeff, his raincoat off, was standing with his back to the fire, appraising the room. It was the first time he had been in the room since she had taken possession.
"You've made this room come to life. It's a good room, but it always looked as if its heart was put in cold storage." He gave his head a little shake. "I don't know what you've done to it, but you've given it life."
"I didn't know you were an interior decorator," she answered brightly, as she handed him the steaming cup.
He looked a little foolish, then he smiled, making his face look young and eager. "I've spent so much time thinking how I'd like to change the old farmhouse that I'm a little touched on the subject."
He began sipping his drink.
"What do you want to do with it?" Serena sat down on a small chair near the fire, stretching out her cold, stiff fingers to the warm blaze. It was good to have Jeff and his exuberant strength with her on this dark afternoon. The sound of the wind sweeping up the driveway only made the room seem warmer.
"My wife liked it the way it was.
She was sentimental about the old place."
It was the first time he had ever mentioned his wife. Serena turned her face attentively toward him, still warming her hands.
"Beth was born in the old place.
Never lived in another house," he explained. "Of course we modernized it some, put in new floors and central heating and new plumbing, but it still needs a lot done with it.
Now I have to fight Delia. She wants it just the way it was when she was a girl; so I just let things go."
He set the cup on the fireside table and stood there, twirling his rain hat.
It was on the tip of Serena's tongue to say, "Won't you sit down? There are things I need to ask you about," but before she could form the first word, there was a new and stronger burst of wind, rattling the windows and swaying the trees. In alarm, she and Jeff rushed to the window nearest the fireplace. They saw the wind sweep down more fiercely and heard the sound of a tree cracking. Before their astonished eyes they saw the old oak tree uproot itself with a mighty sound and topple towards the house.
(To be continued)

k/LS ventures in {bating
Gladys R. Winter
President, San Francisco Stake Relief Society l^OOD does more than nourish the body. We have all noticed how even a very simple lunch, on Relief Society work-meeting day, will bring an atmosphere of friendliness and cheer that stimulates the mind, while tired muscles relax. It is equally noticeable that interest is quickened when some new dish is served, especially if it is one that is inexpensive and easily prepared.
So, in our stake, we try to encourage the serving of dishes that are a little unusual. Our aim is to have an interesting luncheon period, but it is even more important to give the homemakers new ideas to take home to their families.
The recipes I should like to share are a few of the favorites of my family. These are inexpensive, easy to prepare, and can be cooked the day before serving, so only reheating is necessary.
Vi tsp. salt
1 c. warm water
Pizza
A form of hot sandwich that has wide appeal is Pizza, pronounced "Peet-za."
This can be very simple, or many ingredients can be put on top. If you have an Italian delicatessen available, you may be able to get the plain Pizza pie, already cooked; or you could use the prepared yeast roll mix that is available in a package. However, here is a standard recipe, in case you prefer this method. This dough is not light and tender, but is more the texture of French bread. A wedge of Pizza served with a simple green salad or thin soup is delicious.
Crust:
4 c. sifted flour
Vi yeast cake
1 Vi tsp. sugar
Sift flour into bowl, saving !4 cup for flouring board and hands. Crumble yeast cake into warm water and blend. Add salt and sugar; beat well. Pour liquid into well, made in center of flour; work into flour. Turn out on bread board lightly dusted with flour saved from the four cups. Knead all flour into mixture until dough is smooth and elastic. Cut dough into three equal pieces; roll each until smooth. Place on floured board, cover with waxed paper, and set in warm place for two hours to rise.
Pat rounds into flat circles and fit into three greased 9-inch pie or cake tins.
Topping:
The simplest basic topping could be put on the dough before it is put in the oven for baking, and any additions added if the Pizza pies are heated later.
1 No. 2 can tomatoes, well drained, or two 6-oz. cans tomato paste
Vz tsp. oregano or thyme
2 tbsp. chopped, mild or green onion
1 c. grated or sliced cheese salt, pepper, and a few drops olive or salad oil sprinkled over top.
Other popular additions are:
Pork sausage, bulk or links, well cooked
Sliced stuffed olives or minced ripe olives
Stems and pieces of mushrooms
Anchovies, either flat or rolled
Or, before filling is put on, line dough with thinly sliced Italian ham, or any other flavorful meat

Page 752