A FAVORITE SONGSTRESS.
	The evening, Friday, July 1, 1910, a de-
lightful reception was tendered to some of
the relatives and dear friends of Miss Emma
Lucy Gates after her home coming, in the
Social Hall, in this city. The affair was in
the hands of a committee but was tendered
to her by her father and mother, Brother
and Sister Jacob F. Gates. It was a very
pleasant informal gathering and quite dis-
tinctive from social parties generally. The
guest of honor (for such she really was) met
the guests with a simplicity of manner and
cordial greeting that one rarely finds in
young men and women, who have studied
and traveled abroad and received great ap-
plause and adulation from appreciative
audiences and whose names and fame have
been heralded abroad in the public press.
	Miss Gates evidently loves her mountain
home and her native country. She is full
of the enthusiasm of her vocation and de-
termined to attain to the greatest possible
excellence in the musical world for which
she is studying, and is even now taking part
in the Royal Opera at Berlin.
	The Social Hall is a favorite place for fes-
tivities, and this occasion was no exception;
a sweet, gentle spirit pervaded the party,
and the hours flew swiftly by. After the
formal greetings prayer was offered and
Clive’s band played the choicest pieces of
music. Elder Jacob Gates came forward
and made an address of welcome, explain-
ing the nature of the entertainment and why
it was given, Miss Gates only had a brief
leave of absence from the Royal Opera Com-
pany at Berlin where she was playing, and
it meant so much to her to visit her home
and see a number of her people, and so on.
	Later on Miss Gates herself made a brief
statement and gave the company a warm
welcome, and then in her dainty fashion
sang two of the sweetest characteristic songs
that touched every heart.
		Sing aweet bird, etc.
		Shells of the ocean.
“O, how delightful, O how entrancing.”

	These songs, familiar in days gone by
and sung by sweet singers who are now no
more, and we thought it most kind of her to
sing in her pathetic but wonderful rich voice
full of sweetness and exquisite melody “the
dear old songs.”
	There was dancing by the younger set
who seemed to thoroughly enter into the
spirit of merriment, and yet at the close a
tinge of sadness that perhaps it would be
long years before they met again, remem-
bering the words of the poet:
“It may be for years and it may be for ever.”
	During the party light refreshments were
served in the dining room below.
	Miss Gates left the city soon after to rest
and rusticate in the canyon a day or two
after the party, and while at Brighton gave
a fine concert. Since then she has sailed
for Europe to resume her studies in Berlin.
	Miss Gates has a brilliant career open be-
fore her, and her friends at home are look-
ing forward to the future with “great expec-
tations” of her standing at the head of the
musical profession, in culture and develop-
ment of the human voice. May this sweet
singer attain to the highest expression of
this divine art in the songs of Zion. E.B.W.


