VISIT ABROAD.
	The visit of President Joseph F. Smith
and Presiding Bishop C. W. Nibley and
party to Europe has been fraught with great
interest to the Saints in foreign lands. The
greatest conference perhaps ever held out-
side of the United States was the one con-
vened in the Netherlands, at Rotterdam,
Holland, July 24th, 1910, at which Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith and Bishop C. W.
Nibley were present, also President Rudger
Clawson, and addressed the large congre-
gation. The newspaper accounts given
speak in the highest terms of praise of the
discourses delivered and the spirit of the
gatherings; one hundred and fifty Elders
were present, and it is estimated that there
were fifteen hundred persons in all at the
Sunday evening meeting. It would seem
that a very great work is being done in that
land.
	In Scandinavia the work has always made
great progress and many honest souls have
been converted and come to America for
the Gospel’s sake. President Smith and
party visited the large cities in Sweden,
Norway and Denmark, and word received
from President Andrew Jenson gives glow-
ing accounts of the reception of the party
in those countries and the joyful gatherings,
meetings and honors accorded to the
visitors.
	From the northern countries of Europe
President Smith and party will likely visit
Germany and some of the larger towns and
cities in the German Empire, and surely
will see Paris before returning; whether they
will be able to go to Switzerland and all the
British Isles is doubtful.
	The ocean voyage and journey will, it is
ardently hoped, be beneficial to the Presi-
dent’s health, and his visit abroad has cer-
tainly afforded him the satisfaction of giv-
ing pleasure to the Saints who love him,
and it may be there are some of the older
people who would never have been able to
come to Zion, who will have enjoyed the
gratification of meeting and greeting the
Prophet, Seer and Revelator of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints.
	That the Lord will bless him while absent
and bring him home to Utah in good health
and in peace and safety, having accom-
plished for the latter-day work what he de-
sired to do is the earnest wish of all those
who are interested in the welfare of Zion.
						E. B. W.


