[Column 1]
	MISSIONARY EXPERIENCES.
			(Continued.)
	During the ride to Euston, visions of my
first field of labor vividly rise to mind.
It is nearly a year since then, and I am be-
coming accustomed to my new life, but my
lone ride to my first field of labor, through
forty miles of the county of Kent, the garden
spot of England, will never be forgotten. As
I was about to enter a bus at the “Angel”
for Sittingbourne where I had been assigned,
met one of the sisters who had come over
with us to the Quinquennial Congress lately
closed in London, who was now leaving for
Liverpool en route home. “Are you going
to remain in England a winter?” she asked.
“I shall certainly try hard,” I replied. “I
think you are a fool,” she said. “Think of
what an English winter is, and of your state
of health! You have a good home and sons
and daughters in Zion, come and return
home with us. Why do you not return with
us?” “Because I am sent on a mission and
am going to try my best to fulfill it.”
	Though I felt determined, the sister’s
words cast a little cloud on my spirits.
While waiting at the station for the train, I
looked over some of the papers just received
from home, and read of the death of one of
the members of my theological class in the
Sunday school. “It makes no difference
where we are, I thought now she was home
surrounded by loved ones, yet she had to
go.”
	It is a delightful ride, passing villages,
orchards heavy with fruit, and the roads
and green lanes of England. But the far-
ther I got away from London the worse I
felt, until at length I thought I must turn
the train around and go back, actually ris-
ing to my feet to do it. A voice was speak-
ing to me, you are a fool,” it said, “to un-
dertake this mission. Go home to your
loved ones, you might die here, far away
from them all and they would never forgive
you.” Then I recognized it, I had heard it
before. To my mind came a statement,
made by one of our Apostles just before I

[Column 2]
left Utah. When he arose in the Taber-
nacle on that Sunday to speak. He said a
voice said to him, “Sit down, you know you
cannot say anything of account, you made a
fool of yourself the last time you tried. Sit
down!” He did not sit down but I did,
saying, “I will stay!”
	Now that I had overcome the tempter, I
felt happy, though still wondering who
would meet me and how my letter of ap-
pointment which I held with the address of
the Elders, would be received. The lodg-
ings of the Elders, I found, was not far
away from the station. The loud knock
made by the proverbial iron knocker of Eng-
land was answered by the landlady, who in-
formed Elder Sherwood that some one wished
to see him. When his face, illuminated
with a smile of welcome, appeared at the
head of the stairs, all my misgivings were
dispelled, and I felt happy.
	It was a new life for me, who had always
been used to my own home, where I reigned
as queen over my lovers, my ten children.
I was away from all of them now, and my
widow’s dress reminded me of my condi-
tion. I secured lodgings in a Catholic
home, and when I returned from my day’s
tracting and closed the door of my room, I
was alone. It was a great change, but a
needed one. It was a good cure for nerv-
ous prostration, which had followed my
latest ordeal. I loved the work, and health
slowly returned, despite some untoward con-
ditions I had to meet in the world. The
Elders taught me how to tract; took me
with them to the street meetings, where I
felt I could not speak, and encouraged me,
until, like a little child, I could walk alone.
My daily experiences were always new, often
inspiring, and the love of the Saints and
friends among whom I labored, were precious
to me.
	Home papers and letters came regularly,
and always proved a blessing. So the first
winter passed away.
	One day a young girl whose parents lived
in the same row as one of the Saints, sent
for us to come and administer to her. She
was home on a visit, but was very ill. Lying
there on a little cot the hectic glow on her
cheek, a hacking cough and rapid respira-
tion made her look shockingly ill. It seemed
to be an advanced stage of tuberculosis.
“Pray, sister,” the brother said, and we all
knelt beside her. The spirit of prayer came
upon me and a happiness unspeakable filled
the room after the administration. When I
called next day, behold she was well! and
spoke of going back immediately to her post
of duty. Being urged to rest a little while
she decided to return in two days, which she
did. This marveious case of healing was
the first I had witnessed in the missionary
field. Her parents knew of the Gospel and
spoke well of it to those belonging to the
Church, but did not speak that way to those
not of us, though not speaking ill. The
mother, it is said, stated that “she believed
it was true but could not live it.” Her
younger daughter came often to our meet-
ings with one of the Saints’ little girls.
They were grateful recipients of a wonderful
blessing, yet they never identified them-
selves with the Church. Just before return-
ing home the mother wrote me a letter
wishing me God speed to my loved ones,
and in fervent language acknowledging the
healing of her daughter, and said that the
Gospel was true. About two years after-
wards the daughter married. Sometime af-
ter the birth of her babe she was seized as
before and died.


