ence, Italy, May 12, 1820, the records say,
yet years ago it was said she was the same

[Column 2]
age as Queen Victoria, who was born in
May, 1819. Her historian says “she was
one of the fortunate of the earth, inheriting
from nature a striking and beautiful talent,
and able to cultivate it under circumstances
the most favorable that could be imagined,
and to exercise it on the grandest scale in
the sight of all mankind.”
	Of her family the facts are not generally
known. “Her father was an English gen-
tleman of an ancient and wealthy Sheffield
family, by name William Edward Shore
her mother a daughter of William Smith
who was for many years a member of Par
liament, where he was particularly distin
guished for his advocacy of the emancipa
tion of the slaves in the British possessions
	“In 1815, her father inherited the estates
of his grand-uncle, Peter Nightingale, on
the conditions expressed in his uncle’s will,
of his assuming the name of Nightingale.”
	The father of Florence, an intelligent man,
guided her studies in the usual branches
and accomplishments of female education,
and she was taught French, German and
Italian, and attained proficiency in the
Latin language and mathematics; she also
became “a respectable performer on the
piano,” and had a general knowledge of
science and an interest in subjects of art,
which is common with girls of intelligent
minds.
	It was noticeable of her as a little girl
that she had the instincts of a true nurse,
and the sympathy that enables one to know
beforehand what is wanted to alleviate pain
and distress.
	It is customary with young ladies of the
English nobility to visit the cottages on the
estate and minister to the wants of the poor,
the infirm, the sick and distressed; and in
this way Miss Nightingale began voluntary
work of mitigating human anguish; but she
was not content with the usual routine, she
visited hospitals in the vicinity and studied
eagerly whatever she could find in their own
library, relating to the treatment of disease
and management of asylums.
	It is an established custom in England
for wealthy people to spend a part of the
year in London. Miss Nightingale took ad-
vantage of her opportunities to visit num-
berless hospitals and asylums of the metrop-
olis—institutions on the grandest scale and
liberally endowed; but many of them a-
bounded in abuses and defects that became
apparent to her; she saw the need of better
nurses, women trained and educated to their
work; there were plenty of admirable and
skillful surgeons frustrated in their work by
the ignorance and obstinate conceit of
nurses; little was it imagined at that time,
that through this young lady the reform of
these institutions was to come about.
	It has been said of Miss Nightingale that
she created the art of nursing of which she
became so proficient a teacher and really a
master of the profession.
	It is said of Miss Nightingale that al-
though she was not strictly beautiful she
was singularly pleasing in expression, and a
slight trim and graceful figure; she enjoyed
society and was much sought after by friends
and acquaintances, but she loved her home

[Column 3]
best of all; and the family connections of
the Nightingales were numerous.
	In 1845 with her parents and sister Pen-
elope, she traveled through Germany, France
and Italy, visiting everywhere hospitals,
infirmaries and asylums and watching close-
ly the modes of treatment practiced. The
family went on into Egypt, where they re-
sided for a considerable time, and where
the gifts of Miss Nightingale were called in-
to requisition for the first time, outside her
own family and dependents, among the sick
Arabs. They extended their journey to the
fartherest cataracts of the Nile. This journey
was of immense value to Miss Nightingale,
it increased her familiarity with languages,
and gave her a knowledge of the world and
of people as well as of her art, all this she
turned to good account.
	While traveling on the continent of Europe
she often met Sisters of Charity and mem-
bers of other Catholic orders serving in hos-
pitals and asylums with fidelity, constancy
and skill; and she looked upon them with
admiration and profound respect. It had
been a dream of her youth that perhaps
sometime there might be a Protestant order
of nurses, a band of holy women devoted to
alleviating the anguish of the sick, and suf-
fering.
	About 1848, Miss Nightingale heard of
something of the kind in Germany. She en-
tered this school of purses and spent six
months acquiring valuable details of the
art; and in the hospital attached to it she
served as one of the regular corps of nurses.
After returning from Germany she was
sought by friends of an asylum in London
which was on the point of failure, owing to
its improper management, to accept the
post of superintendent; and she left her
beautiful home to go and take charge of the
establishment in London; and gave to the
institution her valuable services and a large
part of her income. She restored order to
the hospital, and increased the number of
its friends and improved its arrangements;
she ministered herself at the bedside of sick,
infirm or dying inmates of the institution;
her health gave way and she had to retire,
but she left the institution firmly established
and well regulated.
	But the great time for her talents was at
hand, her knowledge was to be employed on
a grand scale, her country was to reap the
result of her observation and efficiency.
	In February and March 1854—the war
with Russia was on and shiploads of troops
left England for the seat of war. It is said
by historians that there was never such bad
management, lack of foresight and of adapta-
tion of means to ends, want of knowledge of
the climate and of human constitution, in
sending 25,000 British troops to the Black
Sea. The first rendezvous was at Malta, in
easy reach of two continents, yet it was
there privation and trouble began, but when
the troops reached Gallapili, on the coast of
the sea of Marmora, the terrible sufferings
cannot be told: no interpreters, no carts nor
draught animals, no meat, and many of
them had no beds, and not a soldier in the
army had more than the one regulation
blanket; in the middle of April the men be-


