[Column 1]

making a strong campaign. Opponents of
Miss Jones are advancing the argument that
she is too young for the place, but she is
answering, as did Abraham Lincoln when
the same thing was said about him in the
early days of his career: "I'll outgrow it in
time."
	At Hastings-on-Hudson, New York, re-
cently the women voted, regardless of their
previous attitude on the question of suffrage. 
	Under an old village ordinance women
property owners are entitled to vote in elec-
tions where appropriations are to be author-
ized. Hitherto the privilege has never been
exercised, but when the project to vote
money for sewers, street improvements and
school buildings was to be decided, the wo-
men turned out in force. So well did they
work and vote that every proposal was
carried, and some $300,000 will be expend-
ed for needed improvements. 
	The most approved election methods were
utilized by the women. Automobiles and
carriages took them to the polls and a wo-
man at the booths instructed each voter
carefully how to cast her ballot.—Ex.

	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe testified recently
before the Massachusetts legislative com-
mittee which is investigating the milk
question. Her steps were uncertain as she
entered the large hearing room, but she de-
clined a chair offered by the committee. 
Standing at the end of the witness table,
honored by an exemption from the oath
which is administered to all other witnesses
she entered her plea for pure milk. It was
a plea largely in behalf of the children. “It
seems to me a most important object,” she
said, "which commends itself to all good
citizens. It is a matter of life and death. 
There is no substitute for milk in the rear-
ing of children. There are several parties
to the situation, and I think the principal
party is the child in the cradle. We want
this matter settled on the ground of justice
and mercy, and it ought not to take very
long to settle what is just to all parties and
what is merciful to one (the infant). I do
want that those who produce this food for
us should have suitable compensation. Just-
ice to all parties—let us stand on that."

	The suffragists have won another victory
in Sweden. Parliament lately broadened
the basis of municipal suffrage for both men
and women, and in doing so they accident-
ally broadened it for women a little more
than they had intended. The municipal
vote had been limited almost entirely to

[Column 2]

single women and widows. In readjusting
the qualifications for both men and women,
the bill was so worded as to make it possi-
ble for any married woman with a small in-
come to get her name placed on the register
by paying a voluntary tax. Thereupon a
member opposed to equal suffrage intro-
duced an innocent-looking bill to exempt
married women with an income of less than
200 kroner from taxation. The effect of it
would have been to make it impossible for
married women with small incomes to vote. 
The women discovered "the joker." The
Swedish National Suffrage Association,
which has 164 local branches and more than
11,000 members, held a meeting of protest,
and sent to every member of Parliament a
letter urging that the municipal rights of
Swedish women ought not to be curtailed
just when Norway had made municipal suf-
frage for women universal. The Lower
House voted down the bill unanimously. 
In the non-representative Upper House it
was amended and then passed, but when it
came up for final action by the two houses
sitting jointly, it was decisively defeated. 
Thus, though the married women with small
incomes got their municipal vote by inad-
vertence, the Parliament which has just ad-
journed decided deliberately to let them
keep it. 

	Dr. Alice Hamilton, a long-time resident
of Hull House, Chicago, received on June
30, the honorary degree of Master of Arts
from the University of Michigan. Until re-
cently she was assistant to Dr. Ludwig Hek-
toen, head of the Memorial Laboratory for
the Study of Infectious Diseases. She is a
graduate of the medical department of the
University of Michigan, and has made
special studies of the universities of Munich
and Leipzig and at the Institute at Frank-
fort. Her contributions to medical litera-
ture have given her distinction in the medi-
cal profession.


