[Column 1]
ARE THE WATCHMEN ON THE TOWERS?
	The world is rushing on rapidly in many
ways—progression seems to be the greatest
aim of the people of this wonderful age;
assuredly this is significant of a laudable
ambition to excel and to make many im-
provements in this line of endeavor and
there must necessarily be inventions and
discoveries in the earth and on the earth
until one might say, “knowledge will cover
the earth as the waters cover the mighty
deep;” but unless there is wisdom and faith
in God the greatest and highest of all at-
tainments in that which tends to growth
and advancement in intelligence, science
and philosophy of things seen and unseen,
in wielding power and developing skill and
in the application of the elements that re-
quire the most careful and constant atten-
tion, those which move upward to the great-
est height possible for mortals to reach—will
there be real and lasting benefits? or will it
not all become as “Dead Sea Apples,” hav-
ing within the seeds or the tendency to its
own destruction.
	Is it not true that along with the great
advancement being made in this last cen-
tury many have become proud and haughty
and neglectful of the highest good of man-
kind? Is there not in many instances a
lack of consideration for others, those who
are entitled to benefits and to the results of
achievements?
	In days of old the ancient prophets some-
times called a halt, they were even com-
manded of the Lord to do so, among the
people of Israel.
	Are the people of these times more capa-
ble because of their greater knowledge than
were those who were taught by divine auth-
ority, and lived a more simple life? they cul-
tivated the soil and pastured their flocks and
herds, and the fashions of the world and the
etiquette of society did not trouble them, as
it does the people of today.
	It is well sometimes to pause and con-
sider and question one’s self concerning the
signs of the times!
	It is a momentous time in which we of
today are living; the Latter-day Saints are
well aware of that fact and it behooves them
to be moderate, and avoid the excesses and
dangers that seem at the present to prevail
to such a large extent and are so fascinating
and so bewildering as to deceive and lead to
wrongdoing almost or quite without one’s
being aware of the unhappy if not terrible
results that might and do accrue, although,
perchance, not always follow the careless
and indifferent, who are not in the exact line
of duty and rectitude.
	We are fully aware that it is commonly
said that these things have always existed,
and they always will; and that too may be
partly true, but not quite, for there never
has been the powerful influences of evil to
cope with existing to such an alarming ex-
tent as in the present. People never had
the facilities to accomplish wickedness that
they have now; the rapid modes of transit
and travel, and the knowledge of arts and
sciences innumerable in the hands of wicked
and designing men and women all help to
serve evil purposes if deceitfully manipu-
lated.
	The Latter-day Saints have been warned
by revelation long ago through the Prophet
Joseph Smith and his successors, concerning
the very things that are transpiring and that
encompass us about here and now in our
mountain homes and retreats. We must
not be blind to the facts, but use every en-

[Column 2]
deavor within our power to keep the children
of the rising generation from being led astray;
double our diligence, safeguard every avenue
that is open to indulgences that tend down-
ward to darkness, keep in the narrow way,
walk in the light of truth, preach virtue
and righteousness and right living.
	It is easy to deceive and mislead the in-
nocent and unwary, let parents be warned
in time—there are many wolves in sheep’s
clothing. And many paths by which they
stray, these fair deceitful treacherous wolves
who put on not only sheep’s clothing but
fine and costly apparel and tempt in a thou-
sand ways the confiding and pure-minded
youth of Zion.
	Is there anything that can be done that
has not been tried, if there is by all means
seek to find out and wait not, lest those who
have it in their power to ward off evil be
held accountable for the sin and wickedness
that prevails, and is seemingly running riot
here in our fair cities, where we were wont
to think all was peace and purity and no
harm, or even great temptation to wrong
could ever have power or gain a foothold.


