PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
	We are sure the members of the Relief
Society in all the stakes of Zion and through-
out the Church are interested in the beloved
President, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, who
has for so many years been a pillar in Zion,
not only in the Relief Society from its very
inception, but in the temple work from the
early days; and has officiated regularly in
the Salt Lake Temple from its opening in
May, 1893, almost without losing a day.
No woman in the Church has such a record
in temple work; her faithfulness and fidelity
in the callings, whereunto she has been
called and set apart are unquestionable.
	We regret very much that at the present
time she is seriously ill, possibly many of
the brethren and sisters are aware of her
condition, but as far as we know the fact
has not been spoken of in the public press;
but it seems only right t[-]at the Sisters
should know that she is not able to fill the
position in the temple that it has been such
a great pleasure and satisfaction for her to
occupy.
	Certainly those who minister there will
miss seeing her in the accustomed place,
but at present she is not strong enough, and
must be kept quiet and rest until her health
and strength are restored. The summer has
been trying and it would not be expected
she could recuperate much until it is cool-
er weather.
	She has been most tenderly cared for by
her daughter, who for six weeks was with
her day and night, until she was obliged to
take a rest. Her grand-daughters wait upon
her in the most careful and thoughtful way
and spare no pains to give her sympathy
and attention in the fullest measure possible.
More could not be done than the nursing
she is receiving. For the most of us, who
love her so dearly, and would gladly wait
upon her, we can only pray that all will be
well, and we have the confident assurance
that she has every need and longing antici-
pated and supplied without an effort on her
part. She is watched over day and night,
and all that love and tender nursing can do
is being done in the wisest and tenderest
way, and her sisters and friends may rest
satisfied that everything possible for her
comfort and happiness is assured.
	President John Henry Smith visits her al-
most daily and this is very gratifying to her,
and to all her friends.


