[Column 1]
	I can remember when I was four years
old of hearing my older brother exclaiming
about the stars falling from heaven, and my
mother saying, “Praise God, the Lord is
merciful to us.”
	About this time great persecution began
against the saints, and I remember seeing
the flames when my uncle Isaac Morley’s
cooper shop was burning, having been set
on fire by the mob. I shall never forget the
sight of those flames, I remember hearing
my mother tell of the persecutions of the
Prophet Joseph and Edward Partridge. My
mother said that the wives of these two men
were lamenting to her that their husbands
had been tarred and feathered and sent
home to them to be cleaned.
	Our house was threatened to be burned,
and my father was at that time guarding
the Prophet, and my mother took three of
her youngest children, I among the number
to Calvin Beebe’s house. He was too old
to serve as a guard, and while going there,
my mother, fearing to take the highway,
dragged us as speedily as possible through
the brush and over the stones. Once com-
ing to the crossroads, and having a lantern
hidden under her apron, she was frightened
nearly to death by seeing the flash of a
sword in her face, held by a man behind a
large tree. He was guarding the cross road.
His name was Morgan Gardner, and he im-
mediately reassured her by stating that he
was a friend and not an enemy. My limbs
were torn and bleeding when we reached the
Beebe house, where we found about twenty-
five or thirty more women and children as-
sembled, I remember well how my limbs
bled and how I dared not murmur, or make
a sound for fear of arousing our enemies.
	We were soon put to bed and the women
remained on guard through the night. My
mother told me that during the night, the
women took turns for two hours each, in
putting on the old gentleman’s clothes, and
walking the dooryard with a gun on their
shoulder and keeping guard. Once a white
horse that was browsing in the door-yard
was shot and killed by the enemy. They
probably presumed that it was a person to
whom they were hostile. These events hap-
pened during the persecution in Jackson
County.
	When I was five years old, my parents
moved to Clay County, Missouri, and there
we were all taken sick with chills and fever.
There was no one left to wait on another
and my mother had to wait on herself and
the rest of the family including my father.
During the period when my father was not
suffering with the chills, which occurred
every third day, he succeeded in raising a
crop of corn for bread. About this time
when my youngest brother was nine months
old, we were all separated. My father,
mother and baby boy were taken to Bishop
Edward Partridge’s home to be taken care
of on account of sickness. Our family was
brought together after awhile and we moved
to Far West. I remember seeing the Proph-
et here for the first time. He was taken
prisoner in this place and the brethren all
gave up their arms to the mob. My father
was in the battle of Crooked River and stood
between David Patten and William Hen-
dricks. He saw David Patten mortally
wounded and William Hendricks shot
through the neck, (he lived to come to Utah
but afterwards died from the effects of the
wound). The bullets were flying in every
direction, but my father had no fear until
he saw David Patten fall, then he stepped
behind a tree until the enemy had ceased

[Column 2]
firing, The number of the saints seemed to
be multiplied by divine power, and the
enemy thinking the number was greater
than it really was, fled, leaving their horses
and equipment behind them, of these the
brethren took possession. My father ob-
tained a beautiful mare and saddle, and I
remember hearing hfm say that she was a
fine animal. Having no feed for her, he
hitched her in the hazel brush back of the
house for the night, but during that same
night he was called away. It happened in
this way. On his return from the battle, in
which A. O. Smoot was also, and where my
father had had no sleep nor rest for five days
and nights, being very much exhausted, he
told my mother that he wanted to sleep for
two hours and requested that she bathe his
feet and put clean stockings on them while
he slept. But before he had slept an hour
he was suddenly aroused by a call from
Hosea Stout, who had been in the battle,
stating that he must get right up and flee
within two hours. They feared that the
enemy would pursue them on account of
the taking of the horses. My mother hastily
prepared whatever food she could in the
short time and he left with the rest of the
party. As we afterwards learned, they
reached Lima, Illinois, after suffering con-
siderable hardship. My father had his feet
frozen and the only food that was left after
their short rations gave out, was slippery
elm bark for themselves and horses for three
days and nights. The first news that my
mother had after he left, was a slip of paper
posted somewhere on the road, stating that
he was well, but on account of conditions
at the post-office at Far West, the post-
master, W. W. Phelps being an apostate, it
was necessary that their names be changed
in order to correspond, and he took the
name Titus Skinner and she was to be
Diantha Skinner, and so they corresponded.
We suffered very much that winter, I re-
member how cold it was, as our house was
open and not finished, the fireplace especi-
ally, having no hearthstone, and we had to
get elose to it to keep warm. We often
lacked for food. During the following spring
Benjamin Slade took my mother and her
children to Quincy, Illinois where we met
my father. I remember this trip very well.
We traveled with my father to Lima, where
he visited with his friends who had taken
care of him when his feet were frozen, and
after remaining there one winter we contin-
ued our journey to Nauvoo, which we reached
in 1841.
	I remember the temple built on the hill.
The Prophet’s house was located on the
flats near the Mississippi River, while our
house was situated in the northeast part of
the city, close to brother Heber C. Kimball’s.
I went to school with the Prophet Joseph’s
children. The schoolhouse consisted of one
room, containing about thirty children, and
taught by Sister Eliza Roxey Snow. I went
with my mother to visit the Prophet’s fath-
er, Joseph, Sr., when he was on his death-
bed. He looked so peaceful and heavenly
that I have never forgotten his appearance.
I remember the Prophet’s son Joseph. He
was a quiet, studious boy. I have slight re-
collection of Frederick and Alexander. There
was an adopted daughter in the family
named Murdock, but who was generally
called Julia Smith. She was a constant
companion of mine and for that reason I
often visited the Prophet’s home, eating
there and spending many nights at a time
with the adopted daughter. This young
lady was not aware of the fact that she had

[Column 3]
been adopted until some one told her, and
it nearly broke her heart. Emma Hale
Smith had been very particular to keep the
fact a secret, and had warned many people
not to mention it to the child, but the se-
cret came out at last; however, she appeared
after awhile not to be very much affected.
	Emma Hale taught her to look upon her
as a mother, this she had always done, and
Emma’s love for her continued. She was
proud to be the daughter of the Prophet.
	In one of the reception rooms there were
three mummies, two men and one woman,
and it was of great interest to us to view
them, although they gave me a very strange
feeling of awe at times.
	During the times of the persecution of the
Prophet, especially when he was in hiding,
he would sometimes be allowed to visit his
family for an evening and during that time he
would request my father and mother to come
to sing for him. They would take me with
them and when Joseph found that I could
sing a part alone he requested them to bring
me. We would sing his favorite hymns,
“When Joseph His Brethren Beheld,” “Re-
deemer of Israel,” “The Spirit of God,” and
several others. He would have me sit close
to him and laying his hands on my head
would say, “My little sister, you will be able
to sing the songs of Zion as long as you de-
sire.” He has also blessed me on different
occasions and he would become so inspired
with the spirit of the music that he would
clap his hands and shout hosanna to the
Lord.
	I was always very much affected by the
spirit which he manifested. At first I did
not know what it was, but my mother told
me it was the power which Joseph pos-
sessed.
	My mother sometimes did knitting for
Emma Hale and one time when I took
some work home, I was ushered directly
into Emma’s bed room, when some person
jumped behind the door. Emma called to
him, it being the Prophet, and said, “Do
not be afraid, it is Mrs. Billings’ young
daughter.”
	It was the time of a raid, and when Jos-
eph appeared from behind the door, he put
his hand on my head and remarked, “God
bless you, you won’t tell where I am, will
you?” I replied, “No, sir, I will not.” I
would have suffered any punishment before
I would have told where he was. It made
me feel so strange at the time when he put
his hand on my head, and again I asked
my mother why it was, and she said it was
the power which he possessed.
