EDITORIAL NOTES.
	It is very desirable that the minutes of
conferences, especially the annual confer-
ences of the Relief Society in the several
stakes of Zion, be sent to the General Secre-
tary, of late very few have been received. It
is impossible to keep in touch with the
work being done unless the minutes are at
hand to refer to. Changes are made in
stake officers, and even new presidents of
stakes appointed and the President and
Executive Board only learn of it incident-
ally. Send the minutes of conferences to
the Secretary at the headquarters of the
Relief Society, Bishop's Building, No. 40,
N. Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Please send at once the minutes of the con-
ferences held since the April Conference of
the Relief Society. Do not think because
the minutes cannot all be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT that it is not essential,
they are all history and the General Secre-
tary should know the history of the Society
to keep up the record of the Society as a
whole. This notice refers also to missions
abroad as well as at home. Where confer-
ences of the Relief Society are held in other
languages, there is generally some one who
could translate and make a short report,
which has been done occasionally in years
past. The history of this Society cannot be
complete or correct without such minutes
and data as has been requested now and
heretofore.
	The sketch of Florence Nightingale pub-
lished in this number of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT has been written almost purposely
for the nurses who are studying or have
graduated. We commend it to them and
to all who are interested in humanitarian-
ism, and it should appeal to those who
favor peace and arbitration for the world at
large. In our own country we have Clara
Barton of the Red Cross who is still living,
and we have had a number of women who
rendered valuable service in the civil war,
notably Mary A. Livermore, now deceased,
and Dr. Mary F. Thomas who is we think
still living, and others whose names would
fill our pages with deeds of kindness for the
suffering, without remuneration. And here
it is not amiss to say that in the Relief So-
ciety, among the officers and teachers there


are some of the bravest acts of charity done
in the most beautiful and modest way that
could be imagined, but the angels know,
and even though “the right hand knoweth
not what the left hand doeth,” these acts
of self-sacrifice are recorded, and yet we
who know of these things should not fail to
recognize these “Good Samaritans,” who
carry about with them the spirit of humility,
and give consolation to the mourner and
comfort to the aching heart. We hope this
brief sketch of Florence Nightingale will be
read in the Relief Society and in the Young
Ladies’ Association meetings.


