[Column 1]
gan to suffer with cold, they did not undress
to lie down, but put on everything they had
and wrapped themselves in anything they
could find. There was a small supply of
blankets but no one authorized to serve
them out.
	It is heartrending, almost, even now, to
read the annals of the war. Every time
the army moved it seemed to get into worse
quarters. The camp at Aladyar, where the
army was posted at the end of June, is a
melancholy example of conditions. It was
ten miles from the sea in a country utterly
deserted, and the only communication was
by heavy carts drawn by buffaloes at the
rate of a mile and a half an hour and by
this kind of transportation 25,000 men and
13,000 horses had to be fed.
	In July the cholera broke out and carried
off officers and men of both armies in large
numbers. July 24, twenty men died in 24
hours. To give any idea of conditions is
most terrible.
	On the 13th of September, 1854, 27,000
British troops were landed on the shores of
the Crimea and marched six miles into the
country, and there was not a tree for shelter,
the French troops who landed on the same
day had shelter tents, but in all the English
host there was but one tent.
	At midnight the rain fell in torrents and
continued all night, penetrating blankets
and overcoats, it beat upon the aged gener-
als, the young dandies, and the private sol-
diers alike, they slept in puddles, ditches
and watercourses, without fire, without
grog or prospect of breakfast, the Duke of
Cambridge himself was no better accomo-
dated. This was the beginning of misery;
on the following day signals were made
from the admiral’s ship for all the vessels of
the great fleet to send the sick men on board
the “Kangaroo.” In the course of the day
the vessel was surrounded by hundreds of
boats filled with sick soldiers and sailors,
crowded to suffocation; before night fifteen
hundred sick were on board and the scene
was so horrible, the details were deemed
unfit for publication. After all the vessel
proved to be unseaworthy and all had to be
transported to other vessels, many deaths
occurred during removal; at the same time
men were dying on the beach without any
medical assistance whatever. When the
hospital was about to be established at
Balaklava, sick men were sent before the
slightest preparation was made, and many
remained in the open streets for hours in
the rain.
	Winter set in with a terrible hurricane,
the army were still in tents and no prepara-
tion had been made to protect the troops
against snow and cold and rain, the hurri-
cane broke upon them on the morning of
November 14, an hour before daylight, the
wind bringing with it torrents of rain, every-
thing was filled with water and every tent
laid prostrate by wind, horses, terrified,
broke loose, and the whole country was
covered with galloping horses. Towards
night a driving storm of snow and sleet set
in, tormenting the army, and this storm
was even more deadly on sea than on shore.
Many a ship stored with things for the army
of which they were in perishing need, went
to the bottom of the Black Sea.
	A letter by Dr. Russell, who was there
with the British army is too dreadful to
read; he uses these Emphatic words: “Never
was there such mismanagement, Balaklava
was a scene of filth and horror;” it is said
[---] letter all the pictures of plague and
pestilence ever drawn fall short of the scenes

[Column 2]
of disease and death which abounded there;
no attention was paid to cleanliness or de-
cency, men died without the least effort be-
ing made to help them. The appalling
sights and scenes baffle all description.
Some of Queen Victoria’s own “Household
Guards,” were going into action at night
without soles to their shoes. Many men
were frozen in their tents and the word hos-
pital only conjured up scenes of horror. It
was not surprising that on the 10th of Feb-
ruary, out of a total of 44,948 British troops
18,177 were in the hospital. When there
were stores there was much trouble over
requisitions, the iron-clad rules of the army;
a house full of needed things and no officer
to serve them out. It is said the surgeons
did their best, but the horror was the neg-
lect of the sick in the hospitals, and a cry
arose for a corps of skillful educated nurses.
	“There was but one woman in England
fitted by character, position and education
to head such a band.” Sidney Herbert, a
member of the British Cabinet, was an old
friend of Florence Nightingale’s father, there-
fore he was well acquainted with her fitness
and training; by a curious coincidence, Miss
Nightingale wrote to him offering her ser-
vices, and he wrote to her asking her aid on
the same day. Other ladies of birth and
fortune volunteered to accompany her and
some superior professional nurses were
added. October 24, 1854, Florence Night-
ingale, accompanied by a clerical friend
and his wife, and a corps of 37 nurses, left
England for the Crimea; they traveled via
France and sailed from Marsailles to Scutari
by steamer, where the principal hospitals
were and reached there November 3. The
town was crowded with misery in every
form; five unoccupied rooms which had been
reserved for officers of high rank were
assigned to the nurses, and at once they en-
tered upon duty; and they were none too
soon; in a few hours wounded men in great
numbers were brought in from Balaklava
and ere long thousands from the bloody
fields of Inkermann. Fortunately a com-
missioner was there to supply Miss Night-
ingale’s first demands. Some days elapsed
before men ceased to die for want of sup-
plies that were in the town, but could not be
obtained when required. One nurse report-
ed that the first night of her attendance
eleven men died before her eyes, whom a
little wine or arrowroot would certainly have
saved. Miss Nightingale saw it was no
time to stand for trifles; the second day
after she arrived six hundred wounded men
were brought in, and the number soon in-
creased to three thousand patients, under
her immediate charge. She was gentle and
tender and issued her orders with a calm-
ness that comes of knowledge of what is
best to be done. If red tape interposed she
quietly cut it. If there was no one to unlock
a storehouse she took a few Turks with her
and stood by while they broke it open. The
first week her labors were arduous beyond
what any one could believe possible; she was
known to stand for twenty hours directing
the work of men and women. However
fatigued she might be, her manner was al-
ways serene, and she had a smile or a com-
passionate word for the suffering as she
passed them.
	As soon as the first needs of the men were
attended to, she established a washing house
which she superintended herself, also a kitch-
en which she herself inspected, where hun-
dreds of gallons of beef tea and other liquid
foods were prepared daily; she knew precise-
ly how these things were done and the best

[Column 3]
apparatus for doing them; out of the rough
material around,, boards, camp kettles,
camp stoves and blundering Turks, she
created laundries and kitchens which an-
swered until better could be provided. She
understood the art of utilizing skillful labor.
When a few nurses could be spared she set
them to preparing surgical appliances for
amputated limbs, etc., so that when a thou-
sand wounded men were brought in, they no
longer sufferred or died for want of some
trifle that had not been got ready.
	“The ‘Times’ correspondent wrote of her,
‘she is a ministering angel in these hospitals
and as her slender form glides along each
corrider, every poor fellow’s face softens with
gratitude at the sight of her. When all the
medical officers have retired for the night,
and silence and darkness have settled down
upon those miles of prostrate sick, she may
be observed alone with a little lamp in her
hand making her solitary rounds.' ”
	The same writer says much more on this
subject from which we only quote a word or
two: “No one who has observed her fragile
figure and delicate health can avoid mis-
givings lest these should fail. With the
heart of a true woman and the manners of a
lady, accomplished and refined beyond most
of her sex, she combines a surprising calm-
ness of judgment and promptitude and de-
cision of character.”
	It seems incredible that these ladies were
far from being welcomed either by the med-
cal or military officers; it required all the
firmness and tact of a Florence Nightingale
to overcome the obstacles that were placed
in her way, and it was weeks before the hos-
pital authorities cordially co-operated with
her. Still more incredible that cruel bigots
in England severely criticised her for accept-
ing the services of Sisters of Charity from
Dublin. They discussed whether she her-
self was a Catholic or a Protestant, a witty
clergyman remarked: “She belongs to a sect
which is a very rare one—the sect of the
Good Samaritans.”
	One of the chaplains who labored with her
Rev. S. G. Osborne in his work on hospitals
in Scutari, describes in the most interesting
manner her appearance and character: “Her
nerve is wonderful, I have been with her at
very severe operations; she was more than
equal to the trial; she has an utter disregard
for contagion. I have known her spend
hours over men dying of cholera or fever.
The more awful any particular case, especial-
ly that of a dying man her slight form would
be seen bending over him, administering
in every way in her power and seldom quitt-
ing his side until death released him. What
wonder that the troops idolized her!
	One of the soldiers said: “She would
speak to one and to another and nod and
smile to as many more; but she c[-]uldn’t do
it to all you know, we lay there by hundreds
but we could kiss her shadow as it fell, and
lay our heads on the pillow with content.
Before she came there was cussin’ and
swearin' and after that it was as holy as a
church.”
	All through that winter she toiled on and
the spring until the middle of May. Then
she was taken down with the camp fever
and for a few days her condition was alarm-
ing, but she passed the crisis, and the whole
army rejoiced to hear that she was conval-
escent. In her little book published after
her return home there are but two allusions
to her services in the Crimea. One is that
she had seen death in more forms than any
other woman in Europe. The other refers
to flowers. “I have seen in fevers, (and


felt when I was a fever patient myself) the
most acute suffering produced from (a pa-
tient in a hut) not being able to see out of
a window, and the knots in the wood being
the only view. I shall never forget the rap-
ture of fever patients over a bunch of bright-
colored flowers. I remember (in my own
case) a nosegay of wild flowers being sent
me and from that moment recovery becom-
ing more rapid."
	Miss Nightingale remained in the Crimea
a year and ten [-]onths; when she was re-
covering a yacht was lent her. Its use aided
much in her recovery, when she first sailed
in it she had to be carried to the vessel in
the arms of men.
	She reached home in safety on the 8th of
September, 1856, an invalid for life. All
England f[-]lt ihat something must be done.
Fifty thousand pounds were raised almost
without an effort, and it was decided to use
this fund in enabling Miss Nightingale to
establish an institution for the training of
nurses, The Nightingale home at St. Thomas.
She accepted the trust and for years em-
ployed much effort in the establishment.
	The Sultan of Turkey sent her a magnifi-
cent bracelet, the Queen of England gave
her a cross beautifully formed and blazing
with gems; the Queen invited her to visit
her in her retreat at Balmoral, and Miss
Nightingale spent some days there receiving
the homage of the royal family.
	Her books on nursing are said to be ad-
mirably simple and admirably wise. The
chief duty of a nurse” she says, “is to keep
the air which the patient breathes as pure as
the external air but without chilling,” and
she dwells forcibly upon the “curative
power of perfect cleanliness and bright
light.”
	When Florence Nightingale overcame the
silent opposition of ancient surgeon[-] and
obstinate old sergeants in the Crimea, she
smoothed the path of American women on
the banks of the Potomac and the Mississ-
ippi.
	Her name and fame stand out as heroic
examples to all women and are imperishably
engraved in the annals of her time. There
can be no correct conception of her persona[-]
life from anything that has been written or
published. It may be now that she has
passed away that memoirs or reminiscences
may be given of the woman who has been a
greater philanthropist and humanitarian
than any woman we know of living or dead.
	In the year 1908 she was accorded the
freedom of the city of London and King Ed-
ward with great pomp and ceremony be-
stowed upon her the “Order of Merit,” the
most exclusive distinction in the gift of the
British Sovereign. No doubt Florence
Nightingale was quite as deserving of this
high honor as any man who had ever received
such an honor.
	Peace to her ashes, the memory of her
beautiful life of sacrifice and devotion will
remain forever sacred in the hearts of all her
sex who appreciate deeds of valor and of
self-sacrifice. E. B. W.


