[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			OGDEN STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the Ogden Stake of
Zion held its quarterly conference in the
Relief Society Hall, at Ogden, Utah, July
19, 1910. This stake being an offshoot of
the Weber Stake, the day designated and
set apart for the conference is of more than
usual significance to the sisters, it being in
honor of the day thirty-three years ago that
President Brigham Young inaugurated the
quarterly conferences and organized the sis-
ters into a stake capacity, Weber Stake be-
ing the first to be thus organized, with our
venerable, time-honored ex-president, Sister
Jane S. Richards, as its president.
	The morning session convened at 10 a. m.
Stake President Sarah M. Taylor presided
and conducted the exercises.
	On the stand were members of the Gen-
eral Relief Society Board, Phoebe Y. Beattie
and Annie K. Hardy, President Charles C.
Richards of the Stake Presidency. Councilor
Christian J. Jensen of the High Council,the
Stake Presidency of the Relief Society, with
their Board, and the local officers.
	After the usual opening exercises,remarks
with a brief history of Weber County Relief
Society from 1877 to its division, and to
the present time of the Ogden Stake, was
given by Sister Nellie Becraft.
	C. J. Jensen of the High Council followed
his subject being “The Keynote to Unity in
the Home.” His words were fraught with
wisdom and he proved most emphatically
that Love is the Keynote; first, love to God
and then to each other, the spirit of service
always being foremost in father, mother
and ohildren. He pictured vividly the
happy home where unity reigned and the
home where discord is found, urging the
former with all the benefits accruing and
especially with a view of making our homes 
ideal for the salvation of our boys and
girls.
	General Board member Annie K. Hardy
spoke on obedience of children. Brother
Jensen struck a responsive chord in her
heart. We teach our children but we fail
to train them. This was Eli’s mistake and
the Lord was not pleased with him, as the
Lord told the boy Samuel. George Wash-
ington’s success was due largely to his-
mother’s early training in obedience. The
Prophet said the sisters should be the
guardians of the home. She pleaded for
wiser motherhood and showed how it might
be attained.
	President Charles C. Richards asked those
of the sisters who were present at the meet-
ing in 1877 to raise their hands—fifteen sis-
ters were present and heard the remarks of
President Brigham Young, some of which
he then alluded to; he referred to the ill-

[Column 2]
ness of his aged mother as being the reason
of her absence on this occasion. He prayed
that the sisters might have strength for
their labors and that in blessing others they
might be blessed.
	After closing remarks by President Tay-
lor the congregation sang, the benediction
and a social hour was spent, during which
time a luncheon was served to all present.
	At 2 p. m. the meeting was again called
to order.
	President Thomas B. Evans of the stake
presidency was an additional visitor, as also
Sister Janette M. Morrell, formerly Stake
President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
	General Relief Society Board member
Sister Pheobe Y. Beattie was the first speak-
er, she paid a sweet tribute to the labors of
Sister Jane S. Richards, her mother’s friend
and co-laborer for so many years; she re-
ferred to the meeting held thirty-three years
ago and of the many illustrious brethren
and sisters who were present on that occa-
sion, among ihem, said she, being our own 
dear Aunt Em Wells, of whom it may truth-
fully be said: “She has been the teacher of
the Relief Society.” Outside ladies accord
her the honor of being the moving power
of much that has been done for the benefit
of her sex in these parts. She referred to
some of the deplorable conditions existing
among us today and showing that the blame
is largely on the parents. She read from
the Doctrine and Covenants, section 68 and
urged the early training of the child.
	General Relief Society Board member
Annie K. Hardy referred to the silent labors
of the great army of Relief Society workers
who are accomplishing to the best of their
ability. There is much to be done; a wave
of wickedness is sweeping over us. Our
teachings of today have been rather of pre-
vention; let us give heed to them and see
to it that we do our work wisely and well.
	Sister Janette W. Morrell gave a most ex-
cellent talk on the subject “A Message to
Woman,” showing the trend of the times
and the great need of the Latter-day Saint
women rising to the situation, with a deter-
mination to hold motherhood as the highest
mission given to woman and not to become
entangled with the many allurements
thrown in their path. Showed what home
must be if we are going to hold the child.
	President Thomas B. Evans said we are
truly favored by being taught such things as
we have heard; but how much better shall
we be unless we live them? We assume
much when we fail to put the word of the
Lord to the test. President Smith has said
that there is enough within the pale of the
Church to keep every sister busy without
clubs, etc. Nothing fires one so much as
high ideals, and these may be cultivated.
How shall we feel when we stand before
God if we have failed in our duties as fathers
and mothers.
	After closing remarks by sisters Sarah M.
Taylor and Isabel Foulger of the Stake Pres-
idency of the Relief Society the congregation
sang the parting hymn and the benediction
was pronounced by Sister Sarah A. Tribe.
	The visiting sistere were truly filled with
the spirit of their calling and we feel that
their influence and teachings will be prolific
of good.
	The spirit of the conference was such that
all felt inspired to greater effort and higher
ideals.
