A Most Important Position By Rosannah C. Irvine HAVE you seen an athlete in training? Have you watched his muscles strain? Have you noticed how the tasks are made constantly more difficult? How accomplishing one strenuous feat, he is still not satisfied and strives for even greater results? How day by day he sets himself to harder work? And how day by day he gains skill and strength? He is willing to renounce pleasure, ease, comfort, leisure, society, everything that would be a handicap to his ambition. He does not implore his trainer, as people often pray to God, to make his work light, to give him comfortable, effortless drilling. He accepts his punishment and {begs for more. He discovers early in the game the joy of achievement. His desire is to win even at the greatest of personal sacrifices. Sometimes he fails. He does not give up. He does not sulk and whine. He begins again and tries harder than ever. He takes on added hardship, greater handicaps; more rigid discipline. He glories in action, in effort, in struggle.. Spiritual achievement requires more stamina and greater sacrifice than the acquiring of physical prowess. It sometimes happens that' one is endowed with the rare quality which characterized the Savior,— the ability to love others better than self. Flashing through the crowded pages of history like brilliant meteors at night they fill the soul of the onlooker with awe and wonder. Today the eyes of the world are turned toward India and the little, invincible Mahatma Gandi. A hunger strike to the death is not glamorous and 'romantic. One may disagree with the policy of the Mahatma. 'No one doubts the sincerity of his sacrifice. One-may question his wisdom. No one questions his motive. Jesus said, "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends." Another East Indian of much earlier date, five centuries before the birth of jour Lord, was Gautama, the founder of Buddhism. Wealth, position, and power failed to blind him to the suffering of this fellow men. His faithful attendant tried to pacify him. "Such is life" he said. 'We live and suffer and then we die." The East Indian philosophy is that to attain perfection it is necessary to scourge the body. The greater the pain and self sacrifice one endures the sooner one reaches the blessed state of Nirvana, a condition corresponding to our Heaven. Imbued with this spirit of asceticism Gautama renounced everything worldly. 'By acquiring control of his appetites and passions he gained spiritual power. Like our Savior he was tempted. Like the Christ he resisted temptations. The creed he taught and practiced was similar to the Gospel of Jesus. Unfortunately it has been distorted and mutilated until it bears little resemblance to his original teaching. Grace Darling, the young daughter of a lighthouse keeper, saw a ship wreck in a wild sea. Through her spy glass in the early dawn she could distinguish people clinging to masts and spars. She begged her father to try to save them. To him it seemed a futile effort. He felt sure that it would be a useless sacrifice of their own lives. They could never reach the sufferers. Finally, 158 however, her pleading won his consent. He and she ventured out in a little frail boat on the tumultuous ocean. By superhuman effort and the blessing of God they made three trips and rescued nine people from death. At this distant date the life of Joan of Arc is enveloped in an aura of enchantment and romance that grows with the years. She loved her country and her people better than she loved her own life. There must have been real inspiration in her dreams and the voices that she heard to have sustained her through her many trials and on the funeral pyre. Courageously and uncomplainingly she died. Without bitterness toward those who had caused her death, without loss of faith in the God whom she adored, she gazed heavenward with a prayer on her lips as the cruel flames devoured her. Father Damien, a Catholic priest, went to the Sandwich Islands in the middle of the last century to ease the suffering of the outcasts in the leper colony. He fell a victim to the terrible disease himself and died in his noble effort to save others. One cannot contemplate the lives of such: characters without being spurred into a new determination to do likewise. To read the histories of great people is thrilling. To emulate their example is wonderful. How would we act if we could visualize the 'Savior at our side in the flesh, gazing at us with His all seeing eyes, listening to our words, being cognizant of our most secret thoughts? How many hasty words would remain unspoken! How many unkind thoughts would perish before they were formed! We cannot but believe that our lives are an open book before Him. The thought too often fails to impress us. We formerly had the idea that in the last RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE judgment we would be confronted with a written record of our deeds in this life. An account kept by an ever present, vigilant recording angel. In these modern times when the radio, television, and other marvels are becoming so common as to no longer be regarded as miraculous, we feel that perhaps our lives may unfold before us much as a moving picture is shown upon the screen. Possibly we 'will need no greater punishment for our misdeeds. The Visiting Teachers have the greatest opportunity of any group in the world to fulfill the admonition of Jesus. These righteous women are in a peculiarly strategic position. They are the contact arm of the organization. They visit the widow and the fatherless. They can carry comfort and solace to the distressed. They can inspire and bless those whom they meet. If all these sisters are really filled with the spirit of Christ consider the quality of their work! Contemplate the results! If they can actually feel 'Jesus at their side as a companion on their visits what an inspiration it must be to fulfill His divine will! Jesus was so charged with the spirit of God that a woman who had been ailing for twelve years merely touched the hem of His garment and was instantly healed. Every member of His church is entitled to a degree of that same spirit. The most impressive words in the ritual of the church are those pronounced in the confirmation: "Receive ye the Holy Ghost." It is at once a promise and a command. It is the thing above all things that we should remember. If every 'Visiting Teacher has her full share of the Holy Ghost what peace, contentment, faith, power to face life courageously will surely inspire the hearts of those whom she visits! A gardener once gave this advice A MOST IMPORTANT POSITION to an inquiring friend, "Plant so many flowers that there will be no room for weeds." A mind overflowing with sweet thoughts will be free from vicious ones. Kindness, sympathy, and love will displace envy, selfishness, and intolerance. Every person must be! His own gardener. No one can get inside of another's mind and rid it of weeds and rubbish. A friend may admonish, advise and exhort; but every person must do his own cultivating and weeding. As an organization we are great visitors. Practically every Relief Society member is at some time in her life a Visiting Teacher. Many hours: are spent in this gracious service. However, in all our visiting there is one person who is too often neglected,—Self. How often do you sit down and' have a confidential chat with yourself? Are you well acquainted with that most important person yourself? You are really worth knowing. Did it ever occur to you to have a heart to heart talk with yourself? Have you learned to admit your faults to yourself? Have you tried giving yourself advice? If you learn to know and appreciate yourself 'you will be surprised to discover what a delightful and companionable creature you can be. You are the one person in the world of whom you never tire. You can become cordially good friends with yourself. You can be perfectly frank without giving offense. You can call attention to your good points and abilities without being considered a flatterer. You can be on such 159 intimate terms with yourself that you can without fear or favor tear down, build up, change, re-construct. Review the mistakes of the day, and make new resolutions for the future. You are your very best friend. You can be honest and severe. You can be sympathetic and understanding. In analyzing yourself you will find many capabilities and excellent qualities that you had not suspected you possessed. The combination of yourself for and against yourself is a remarkable thing. These visits should be frequent. They can be made very delightful as well as profitable. Learn to visit yourself and you will never be lonesome or bored. And being good friends with yourself will make for friendship toward others and for appreciation of their abilities, handicaps, trials and efforts. Twenty thousand cheerful, kind, saintly women carrying peace and comfort and courage to the downhearted and unfortunate will do much to lighten the gloom of the present world condition. We are experiencing an era of unusual hardship. Can we make it a blessing? Can we accept the trial of poverty and discomfort as a beautiful experience? Can we consider it a test of strength? Can we develop spiritually through strain and effort? Adversity is a wonderful teacher. Adversity makes for strength. If at the end of the day we are not stronger, more capable, more patient and Christlike; if at the end of the day the world is not better and happier for our having lived, then that day we have lived in vain. Big Sister: "And did you let little Tommy play with your sled half of the time?" Johnnie: "Oh, yes, we divided up—didn't we, Tommy? You see, he played with it going up hill, and I played with it going down!"