Happy Birthday By Lucy Rose Middleton MARCH 17, the day on which the Relief Society was organized, is celebrated throughout the church. The type of entertainment probably varies with 'each ward. Programs which review the history and progress of the organization together with appropriate music and refreshments constitute, perhaps, the most common way of observing. This day. A novelty to add interest and color to the occasion would be to serve a dinner at twelve tables, each one representing one of the months of the year. The guests may be seated at the tables corresponding to the months of their birth. Seasonal devices for designating the tables offer an opportunity for originality. As a suggestion, the January table can be decorated to represent the New Year, using bells as a central idea. February is an easy month to indicate for there are hearts, valentines, cherries, or hatchets from which to choose. The March table may be made to hold the center of the stage, the centerpiece signifying any phase of the Relief Society. I suggest a large birthday cake, dotted with candles and the numerals 1842-1933 scrolled in frosting. The oldest members may be seated at this table, if you wish to deviate some from the general scheme, or individuals might be dressed to represent the seven women who have been presidents of the organization. Easter flowers or the Easter basket can be used for the month of April. Since © we have a wealth of flowers in May, they would make a lovely centerpiece. June is the month for brides, July is dedicated to the observance of two important 'holidays—one dealing with the birth of our coun- | try and the other with the birth of our state. Flags or covered wagons are true emblems of those days. In August our summer flowers are at their best or one might develop the idea of vacation at the seaside or mountain resorts. The September school bells ring back memories of slates, hickory sticks, and the little red school house, and offer a ready material for the table decorations. Hallowe'en devices and the horn of plenty symbolize October and November, and, of course, December cannot better be typified than by a tinselled Christmas tree or a red nosed Santa Claus. A menu should be selected which is both easy to prepare and to serve. If a hot dinner is desired, the following is suggested: Individual chicken, veal or beef pies Potatoes Gravy Vegetable or Fruit Salad Relishes—water cress, radishes, pickles Ice cream Cake HAPPY BIRTHDAY If it is more convenient to serve a cold dinner this will suit the occasion: Chicken or Veal Loaf Potato Salad Butter Relishes Ice cream Cake Hot chocolate or a fruit punch are suitable drinks. Individual Chicken 'Pies Cover the fowl with boiling water and cook slowly until tender, adding salt and pepper when half cooked. Remove the bones and cut the chicken in cubes. Thicken the stock with a flour and water mixture. A rather thick gravy is necessary. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Roll out a plain pastry and line individual pie plates. Fill with the chicken and gravy and cover as for a fruit pie. "Bake in a hot oven until the crust is well browned. Extra gravy should be made to pour over the pies when they are served. If the small pie plates are not available, roll out the pastry and cut in diamond shapes, large enough for individual pies. Put filling on half of pastry and fold over. Avoid too much liquid. Wet the edges and press well together to keep gravy from running out. A few incisions must be made in the top crust as an outlet for steam. Bake in a hot oven until well browned and serve with chicken gravy. Individual Beef or Veal Pies 1 to 2 cups of beef or veal cut in cubes, (cooked or uncooked ) 3 cups boiling water Y onion 1 cup potatoes, cut in cubes 2 small carrots Salt and pepper Cover the meat with boiling water, and cook until tender. Add onion 20 minutes before it is done, then remove. Add_ vegetables, Rolls 163 which have been parboiled 10 minutes. Dilute if necessary. Thicken with a flour and water mixture. Season to taste. Use the individual pie plates or the diamond shaped pastry and continue as for chicken pies. Serve hot with additional gravy. Chicken Loaf 4 pound fowl 2 quarts cold water 4 slices carrot 1 onion, stuck with 8 cloves 2 stalks celery Bit of bay leaf Y teaspoon peppercorns 1 tablespoon salt 1 tablespoon granulated gelatine soaked in 1 teaspoon cold water Salt, pepper, celery salt Lemon juice and onion juice Cover fowl with water, add carrot, onion, celery, bay leaf, peppercorns, and salt. Bring quickly to the boiling point and simmer until meat is tender. Chop meat finely. Reduce stock to 34 cup, cool, remove fat, reheat and add 'soaked gelatine. Add to meat and season. Pack solidly in buttered loaf tin. Chill and slice. Note: The recipe for veal loaf was given in the December Relief Society Magazine. Vegetable Salad 1 cup wesson oil 1 can 'peas 1/3 cup vinegar Celery 114 teaspoon salt Radishes yy teaspoon pepper Cucumbers 1 can string beans Green onions Mayonnaise dressing Mix oil, vinegar and juice from string beans together and pour over peas, beans, and the onions, radishes and cucumbers which have been cut in small pieces. (Do not use the juice from the peas). Let this mixture stand in a cold place for an hour or so, then pour off juice and add the finely cut 164 celery. Place on a lettuce leaf and top with mayonnaise dressing. Decorate with paprika. Jellied Fruit Salad 1 package of lemon jell-o 1 pint boiling water % cup each of the following canned fruits: peaches, pears, apricots, and pineapple Dissolve the jell-o in the boiling water. Set; then add the fruit, cut in pieces. When it is thoroughly set, cut in squares or rounds and place on a lettuce leaf. Top with mayonnaise dressing and a maraschino cherry. Potato Salad 144 cups cooked potato cubes 3 hard-cooked eggs, finely chopped 114 tablespoons chopped pimentos 2 small slices of onion, chopped fine Boiled dressing. Mix potatoes, eggs, pimentos and onions with the dressing. Serve on a lettuce leaf or on bed of water cress. Top with chopped parsley, or slice of egg. Chocolate Cake Dark batter: 1 egg Y cup light brown sugar 1 cup grated chocolate Y cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla Beat the egg slightly, add sugar, milk, and chocolate. Cook over hot water until the mixture is thick and smooth. Stir often. 'Let cool, then add vanilla. This mixture can be cooling while the cake. Batter is being made. Cake batter: 4. Cup butter 1 cup light brown sugar 2 eggs 1 cup milk 2 cups flour Y teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in 2 tablespoons boiling water. Cream the butter well then add Let stand until it begins to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the sugar. When well blended add egg yolks well beaten. Mix the baking powder with the flour and add alternately with the milk. Add the dark batter, and then fold in the well beaten egg whites. Lastly, dissolve the soda in the boiling water and add to the batter. 'Pour out in well buttered layer tins and bake in a moderately hot oven (350 degrees) for forty minutes or until the cake pulls from the sides. Standard Plain Cake Y cup butter 1 cup sugar 2 eggs 2/3 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 2 cups flour 4 teaspoons baking powder Y teaspoon salt Cream butter, add half of sugar gradually, and beat until light. Add remaining sugar to well beaten egg yolks. Combine mixtures. Mix and sift flour, baking powder, and salt and add alternately with milk to first mixture. Beat thoroughly, add vanilla, and fold in egg whites beaten until stiff. Bake in buttered layercake pans 25-30 minutes in moderately hot oven (375 degrees F.) Vanilla Ice Cream 2 cups scalded milk 1 tablespoon flour 1 cup sugar 1 egg or 2 egg yolks slightly beaten 4 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 1 quart thin cream Mix flour, sugar and salt, add egg slightly beaten, and milk gradually; cook over hot water for 10 minutes, stirring constantly at first; should the custard have a curdled appearance, it will disappear in freezing. When cool, add cream and flavoring. Strain and freeze. If a chocolate flavor is desired, heat 2 squares of 'unsweetened chocolate and 1% cup sugar with the milk.