Notes to the Field Work and Display WE are looking forward with pleasure to the Work display at our 'April Conference. We hope to have the stake presidents of every stake in the Church join with us in being both hostesses and guests. One of our desires is to have stake officers become better acquainted with each other and to talk over our successes and failures. A Message from Switzerland RESIDENT ROBISON has received a letter from Sister Laura W. Salzner, whose husband is presiding over the Swiss-German Mission. She reports that they have 15 districts in which conferences are held twice a year. Some districts are so far away from Basel that it is not possible to return between conferences and this keeps some away from Headquarters two or three weeks at a time. They employ the time in holding Missionary meetings and visiting the outlying branches during the week. When they have gone around the Mission they have traveled 2,570 miles. She reports that on her first visit around the Mission, she gave Sister Robison's message of love and appreciation for the good work they are doing and expressions of happiness lighted up the faces of the women. They love their leaders, enjoy their work and the spirit of love and service is manifest among them. Sister Salzner writes, “We have 1,100 Relief Society members enrolled in our 54 branches. Practically all have reported having held successful, well attended bazaars, and branch conferences during the past year, and are doing progressive work. It is a noticeable fact that wherever our sisters are working together with a spirit of love, unity and harmony, the branch also is in a spiritually healthy condition." "The financial condition in Switzerland is much better than in Germany, due to unemployment there. During the past year the Swiss Relief Society organizations have gathered clothing and food stuff which has been sent to the organizations in Germany for distribution. The clothing has been cleaned, renovated and sent out postpaid and ready for use. A report of this activity has been sent in with the yearly report."' We are glad to learn that financial conditions in Switzerland are better than in some other places and we rejoice that the spirit of sisterhood prompts them to send supplies to those in need, even though they do not belong to the same nation. The Gospel does away with boundary lines and makes all who enter its fold feel close kinship. "Our records," reports Sister Salzner, "show one-third more female than male members, and it is seldom that we find an entire family belonging to the Church. In fact the majority of the husbands of our Relief Society officers and members are not members of the Church. It is therefore often difficult for these good sisters to do all they would like to. We are often entertained in the homes of Relief Society Presidents, and have rejoiced to have more than one non-member husband say, "I have a good wife, she is happier, and is a better wife, and a better mother, since joining your Church and working in this organization." Wee believe that every woman who joins the Church and who lives the 174 Gospel is transformed. She lives a more abundant life and all who come RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE under her influence sense the change that has taken place in her. Over the Top T gives us great pleasure to call attention to the fact that the same two wards in the Ensign stake have gone over the top again in their Magazine Subscriptions. Ward President Magazine Agent Jennie B. Griffin Alma Erickson Ward Membership No. 12-13th............ 91 93 In times' like the present this certainly indicates devotion to the cause Vivian McConkie aud enthusiasm in the efforts for the Magazine. Jean H. Betenson Our Conference HE April Conference will cover two days. The first day will be devoted to meetings as follows: 10 a. M. Session for Stake Executive Officers only. Stake Board Members will not attend this session. 2 p. M. Department meetings for Stake Officers and Stake Board Members only. I. Social Service Department for Stake Presidents and Stake Social Service aid, and other Stake Board Members. II. Work and Business Department for Stake Counselors in charge of work and other Stake Board Members. III. Choristers and Organists Dept. For Stake Choristers and Organists, and other Stake Board Members. The second day of Conference will consist of 2 general sessions in the Tabernacle for Stake and Local Officers and the Public. A unique feature of this conference will be the display of handwork from all the Stakes. Lesson work will be left for the October Conference when class leaders will be given as much help as |possible.