Our Servants—Words By Ramona Wilcox Cannon WHEN Edmond Rostand wrote his farm-yard phantasy, Chanticleer, he reflected the weaknesses, foibles, and vanities of human society in the persons of the owl, the peacock, the dog, pheasants, cocks, and hens of the animal kingdom. Chanticleer feels quite certain that his daily matinal song, '"cocorico, cocorico," brings up the sun, with all its attendant blessings. Therefore, he sings: with all his might, and makes his task a thing of glory. He sings from his soul, not from a book of rules, and is, consequently, bewildered and astounded when he is assailed at the guinea-hen's five o'clock tea, by selfimportant critics who wish to know all about the technique of his song. Does he use head tones or chest tones, and how about the rhythm? "And", says one impertinent creature, "do you say 'co-co-ri-co' (with the accent on the last syllable) or 'coc-o-ric-o'?" (giving the "c's" their full value, and with the accent on the third syllable. ) This little scene is a biting satire on the critics who think they must analyze the spontaneous beauty out of a work of art, and it also strikes at those carping, captious people who argue endlessly over hair-splitting differences in the meanings of words, or in their pronunciation. Many pedantic societies existed whose members spent much of their time in such intellectual occupations. The precieuses, or blue-stockings", learned women, hungry for fame, were among those at whom Rostrand's satirical shafts were directed. OUR Relief Society organizations will doubtless never become so extremely proficient in abstract mental pursuits that we will be called "blue stockings" or deserve to havea book written about us. The greater danger is that we may fail to utilize all our opportunities to grow mentally. Probably with this thought in mind, our Twentieth Ward president, Sister Vivian R. McConkie, decided to try out a project in our organization by which we could, on work days, keep our brains busy, as well as our fingers. We all need a greater mastery over words. In our language, we have some four hundred and fifty thousand words and phrases, according to the Oxford English dictionary. Shakespeare used fifteen thousand words, Milton, eight thousand. According to George Herbert Palmer, "* * * the average school boy's vocabulary consists of one or two dozen nouns, half-a-dozen verbs, three or four adjectives, and enough conjunctions and prepositions to stick the conglomerate together.'" As to our own vocabularies, we are not obligated to confess, but certain it is that we can all afford to enlarge them. Our Twentieth Ward project is, therefore, to increase our knowledge, use, and enjoyment of the English language. PROBABLY we fail to comprehend what wonderful servants words can be to us. Yet, "a soft answer turneth away wrath," and in many Cases, a wise or clever reply has saved a man's life. It was words *Essay on "Self Cultivation in English." 14 that incited the rabble of Paris to the French Revolution. The words uttered by the Saviour and translated into many languages have prevented many an evil deed, bitterness and bloodshed. They have changed the entire code of living for a large part of the world. We have been told that the pen is mightier than the sword, and in these days of peace conferences, we are trying to prove that statement— to show that nations' differences, like children's, can be settled rationally, without the cost of human life. But what! Wise words are necessary to clarify tangled situations, and shed on them the clear light of justice! To many human beings, words bring a livelihood: the success of the author, journalist, lecturer, attorney, advertising specialist, teacher, depends largely upon his skill with words. Even with women who spend their time in the home, words are of vast importance. The realm of home may be lowly; yet its influence, for good or for ill, reaches into eternity. The mothers—fathers, too—who can RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE teach their children with sufficient force or persuasion to inculcate in their natures lasting desires for righteousness: justice, honor, kindness, purity—have perhaps extracted from life the sweetest thing it has to offer. To do this, the heart and the intelligence must be right, but there is also the need of words to express what the heart and the intellect desire. THESE are only a few suggestions as to why it is profitable for us to struggle to bend words to our will. Our real problem is: how to set about our project. I think four aims might be kept in mind in planning this work. The first one is to correct common errors in the use or pronunciation of words in our every-day vocabularies. The teacher might make a list of such words that she hears either at home or abroad, particularly in Relief Society meetings. Correcting errors made by members, is the very thing that will be certain to help members; and this situation may be handled impersonally. Here is one list of mispronounced words, collected within a few days: Correct grievous (gre'-vus) tremendous (tre-men'-dus) height (hit) biceps (bi'-seps) bison ((bi'-son) fanatic (fa-na'-tic) proletariat (pro-le-tar'-iat simile (si'-mi-le) chef (shef) Incorrect griev-i-ous (very common error in words ending in ous) tre-men-du-us height (obsolete) bi-ceps' bi'-zon fa'-na-tic pro-te-lariat (syllables confused) si'-mil chef hors-de-combat (or-du-comba') horse-de-combat (out of the combat) OUR SERVANTS—WORDS If the last three words in this list seem a little far-fetched, it might be interesting to add that they occurred in the conversation of a ten-yearold boy, within three days. So, it seems that it would behoove "the mothers and older associates of such children to enlarge their own acquaintance with words. We might include in this first aim, also the correcting of common grammatical errors. Frequently certain errors are quite commn to certain localities, and women are often very glad to have their attention called to little mistakes. A course in grammar is a large undertaking of itself, and should be handled separately. But a little drill might be included in these lessons, on using as if instead of like; sue is as tall as I, rather than me'; give it to John and me rather than I; she is one of the girls who look (not looks) well in lavendar; and a few other expressions commonly used incorrectly in all localities. The second aim might be to add new words to our vocabularies of common speech. If each member would bring to meeting one or two words that she has never used before, but is now making an actual part of her thought-consciousness, much mutual benefit would be derived. A third aim is to add to our literary vocabularies, so that we may have a greater command of words for writing or occasional speaking, and so that we may enjoy and appreciate the thoughts of masters of literature. George Herbert Palmer, in speaking of English as a joy, says: "He is unwise, however busy, who does not have his beloved authors, veritable friends with whom he takes refuge in the intervals of work, and by whose intimacy he enlarges, re- 145 fines, sweetens, and emboldens his own limited existence." WORD artists exhaust their vitality, often to the point of having nervous break-downs, in their efforts to create beauty for us. Words are so baffling! They have many nuances, or shades of meaning. They seem, often, to wait a certain fragrance of their own. They may satisfy one's soul as does the lilt of music. Sometimes they leave vague, indefinable little trails of suggestions, like overtones in music. Frequently, they have rather definite connotations, pleasant and unpleasant. One teacher asked her students to write down the first thing they thought of as she read each word in a list. When she came to spinach, twenty out of twenty-five — wrote grit. Words, then, are so subtle and elusive that an artist, creating something fine in literature, must feel with all the delicate fibres of his emotional and intellectual being, to find which ones most truly express his mood or thought. And are we not fortunate if we have sufficient understanding to share such an artist's creations? WE might go one step further, and aim to increase our knowledge of the various activities of life, by learning the meaning of some more or less technical words that pertain to such occupations. Take some of the more simple terms used in literature, for example, such as simile, or metaphor. If these were explained, and the members would make lists from their reading, during the next month, and bring some along, some good, some funny, perhaps, it would enlarge the general understanding and appreciation. Do you like this one: 'The sunset clouds looked like pink sheep in a meadow? *Essay on "Self Cultivation in English." 146 Would you like it better if it read, "The pink sunset clouds looked like sheep, standing in a meadow."? Do you like this one: "The frightened little boy trembled like nervous pudding'? It might be interesting to go into some detail about such processes in art as: steel engravings, woodcuts, etchings, illumination of old manuscripts; and to know the meaning of such words as chiaroscuro, bas-relief, gargoyle, pediment, Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian pillars, Gothic architecture. As to the culinary art, can we order from an elaborate menu card? Would it not be fun to obtain one, and find out all about every item on it, from pronunciation to recipes? There are also many musical terms in current usage, of which we should not be ignorant. We might concentrate on them for a few lessons. May we add a few general suggestions? Most of us, being inert mentally, are rather cruel to certain words. We make of them poor little Cinderellas, who must perform all the labor while the more fancy, elaborate, proud, or haughty stepsisters, remain in all their glory, in our mental drawing-rooms, waiting for the prince to ride by before they deign to show themselves. Take one of them, came. He came into the room. Even to say, "He entered the room, invests him with a degree more of dignity. And how much more pictorial he might be if he walked, limped, dragged himself, rushed, ambled, shuffled, shambled, sauntered, bounced, or stalked into the room. "Her behaviour was awful, or terrible,' says some one. Would one's behaviour inspire awe or terror? Her behaviour might have been haughty, autocratic, ill-bred, arrogant, reprehensible, insulting, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE irritating, rude, overbearing, uncouth, unmannerly. Another excellent plan is to translate slang phrases into appropriate English. For J bet, may be substituted, "I venture or I venture to say; for 'm in a fix, or I'm in a pickle, or I'm in a quandary, predicament, or dilemma. One slang phrase might be assigned for the following lesson, so all could have time to think or work on it. This project has been tried once in the Twentieth Ward. All the Sisters were interested, and the class seemed to be very much worth while. The lesson was informal and spontaneous, and successful because so many of the members took part. Our attention was called to the fact that we commonly mispronounce Melchisedick, which should be pronounced as it is spelled; genealogy, the a being pronounced as in am: adult, the accent being on the last syllable. The word eleemosynary was brought up, and its pronunciation and meaning checked. We used it in several sentences, bearing in mind its meaning of charitable with the connotation of benevolent. One sentence was: There are eighteen eleemosynary organizations working in cooperation with the Community Chest. This added to our general information as well as our knowledge of words. Mr. Funk's recent list of the ten most beautiful words in the language was discussed; dawn, hush, lullaby, murmuring, tranquil, mist, luminous, chimes, golden, melody, and a few added from other lists as seasands, slumberous, ballad, modesty, innocence, serenity. This led to a discussion of onomatopoetic words, which are echoic or imitative of the sound they stand for as bow-wow, hiss, sizzle, murmur, lullaby. Might we not stretch a point and include melody and serenity? We were un- OUR SERVANTS—WORDS expectedly led into the art terms, caryatids (draped female figures used in place of columns, to support an entablature) and telemones, (male figures used for the same purpose). (Pronounced car-y-a'-tide, and tel-e-mo'-nes). We took up some similes from a well known author, that are so forced as to be rather ludicrous. We plan to take up some more next time by the same author, that' are very beautiful. One sister asked for some drill on seen and saw, and in answer to that, some one suggested that an old teacher of hers had said that seen was rather a weak sister who didn't step out alone. She had always to be accompanied by have, has, or had, or one of its relatives. If other organizations should plan to take up this work, here are a few suggestions for teachers: The real aim of the class should be to teach people to use a dictionary. The one used in the University of Utahis Webster's Collegiate Dic- 147 tionary, Fourth Edition of the Merriam Series. This may be purchased for $3.50, and is an excellent acquisition to any home without an unabridged dictionary, or to a Relief Society library. Word Study is a little magazine that may be, obtained by writing the G. And C. Merriam Co., Springfield, Mass: This gives lists of words being accepted into good colloquial usage, and much other valuable information, and is sent without cost. One text book. On vocabulary-building is the Century Vocabulary Builder. Archbishop Trench has an interesting little booklet, On the Study of Words, in which he discusses such matters as the history of words, poetry of words, and the like. Two words of advice: Use all new words in sentences, again and again. Suggest that as many directions as possible be given about the sewing before the vocabulary work begins, so that the competition will be no more than necessary.