Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke THE FIXED BACKGROUND IN the previous articles we have considered some of the fundamental principles which underly all art. We can now begin to apply these rules to the problems of home furnishing and decoration. The basis from which to begin the decoration of a room is the fixed background. This includes the walls, ceiling and floor, and all of the openings and penetrations into. The room as doors, windows, fireplaces, built-in bookcases and cupboards! In fact, anything that is fixed and immovable. These are the only items of a room's decorative furnishings that cannot be picked up, moved about or carried away. The treatment of this architectural setting may make or mar the room. If it is not intelligently handled, no matter how good the furniture, or how lovely the draperies and rugs or other furnishings, the room will not be beautiful. This is absolutely true. In a large percentage of rooms which are failures the fault is in the treatment of the background. Therefore, make this right before doing anything else. Any other procedure would be like putting the cart before the horse. If there is only a limited amount to be spent, it will prove economy in the end to spend more on the background. Movables can always be added from time to time. If the room is plain, without any particular architectural distinction you have a clear field in which to work, to use any desired furnishings or scheme. If, however, there are certain features that demand consideration, you must work out your scheme in conformity to them. For example, the walls might be of rough plaster, with fumed oak woodwork, beamed ceiling and a brick or stone fireplace. Into such a room you could not put fine mahogany furniture and expect a harmonious then into that room you must put furnishings in agreement with the background, which in this case would require oak or walnut furniture of rather strong character. Often the background seems irredeemably bad, but if you examine it, the fault will usually be in some architectural detail, or in the proportions of the room. Try to locate the chief defect, remove or remedy that, if possible. Usually the one bad feature removed will make the rest of the room appear right. A background that lacks character may often be improved by minor changes: rearrangement of openings, addition of a cornice at the angle between wall and ceiling, by installing an attractive door in place of one of bad design, by panelling the walls, or addition of a dado (wainscoat) of wood, or merely a chair rail. If there is a fireplace it is usually the most conspicuous feature. One of fine design and proportions will add greatly to the charm of a room, but the whole effect will be ruined if the design is clumsy or poor. It can often be remedied by the removal of meaningless carvings, grillwork, and decoration. And may I add here if you have a built-up fireplace open it, or if there is any way you can add one to your room do so, for the hearth is the symbol of home and 152 has been through the ages, and is one of the greatest assets a room can have. If the proportions of the room are bad there are a few camouflages that might be employed. In a room with low ceiling that you wish to appear higher create vertical lines by means of striped wallpaper, vertical panelling, long drapes, etc. Horizontal lines by means of wall paper, panelling dado, cornice and chair rail reduce the apparent height. As a rule lowness and horizontal lines make for repose and tranquility; height creates a formal and stiff atmosphere. Plain spaces make a room look larger, large pattern decreases the apparent size. Mirrors in a room not only add a decorative note which is lovely but give an effect of spaciousness. Because the walls constitute such an important part of the area of a room it is essential that they be handled with care. They are the keynote of the entire decorative scheme. They must be harmonious, serviceable and beautiful (and of a beauty that is livable). They are architectural and structural and should look that way—firm. And strong—flat and upright—to be the convincing: vertical boundaries of the room. William Morris says: "Whatever you have in your rooms, think first of the walls, for they are that which makes your house and home, and if you don't make some sacrifice in their favor you will find your chambers have a kind of makeshift, lodginghouse look about them, however rich and handsome your movables may be." Attempts at wall decoration date from earliest history. They were man's first response to the inherent desire for the beautiful and were used with little or no regard for: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE their surroundings. As knowledge and education progressed walls were seen to be an integral part of the whole scheme of room decoration and were treated with greater care. At first this was evidenced in the paintings and tapestries hung on the walls, and were only within the reach of the wealthier class. But thanks to modern methods of production beautiful wall decorations have been made available for everyone. There are two possibilities open for the treatment of walls—they may be treated either as backgrounds or as decoration in themselves. They must be one or the other, they cannot be both. Before you can proceed with your decoration it is absolutely necessary to decide which one it shall be and then never swerve from this purpose. Many rooms are complete failures because they do not observe this rule. If the first course is chosen, the walls must be of such an unobtrusive character in color, pattern and texture that they will be a good background for whatever is hung or placed against them. Background walls include plain plastered, painted and kalsomined walls, plain papers or those with unpronounced pattern, stone and panelling devoid of carving and decoration. If walls are to be of decorative character then in pattern, color and material they may furnish decoration and interest, but pictures, tapestries and other wall hangings must be kept off them, and tall wall furniture should be dispensed with as far as possible. Decorative walls include most patterned wallpapers, landscapes, scenics, decorated plaster, and panels with carving and decoration although the latter may have a painting or mirror hung on YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL them if space is specially designed for it. There are many kinds of walls and wall treatments:—stone, plaster, panelled, painted, paper, fabric and trelliage. I will only take up in detail those which are practical for the average home. Stone walls belong to the large rooms of the Renaissance period. They are, as a rule, not suitable for small homes, but they are occasionally jused in sun porches, and basement rooms. They give a lovely effect of light and shadow, and unless the joints of the stone and colors are jof peculiar interest such walls make jgood backgrounds. Brick walls would also come under this same classification. An interesting treatment for such walls as these (as well as plaster walls and timber walls and beams in Early American rooms) is whitewash. 'There is really no such thing as a pure white wall as the play of light produces colors in all the tints of gray, green, blues, pinks, violets and yellows. A whitewash that will not rub off is the "Lighthouse" Mixture: Slake half a bushel of lime with boiling water, cover during; the process to keep in the steam. Pour through fine strainer and add to it a peck of salt dissolved in warm water, three pounds of ground rice boiled to a thin paste and stirred in while hot, half a pound of Spanish whiting and one pound of clear glue, previously dissolved by soaking in cold water, and then hanging over a slow fire in a small pot hung in a larger one filled with water. Add five gallons of hot water to the mixture, stir well and let it stand a few days covered from dirt. To be applied hot. Wood panelled and partially panelled walls are lovely. It seems as if there is magical quality in wood that appeals to us. It gives an effect of warmth, strength, dignity and charm toa room. Wood panelling is coming once more to the fore 153 by the use of pine in copying old Colonial interiors. Wood was used for finishing the interior walls of the earliest houses in the American Colonies before the use of plaster became common. Wood iis not as expensive as is often supposed and the first cost is practically the last. If you are intending to build or remodel consider a wood panelled room, if not all, at least a dado, which may be left natural or painted. 'Often mere horizontal boarding is very effective, especially in Colonial rooms. Manufacturers are making these panels, dados, cornices, mouldings, mantels and built-in units in stock sizes which are much more economical to buy. Then too, there is a new product on the market, a thin veneer of wood on a foundation of burlap or other similar material 'which can be applied to the walls as paper and the stile and rails may be of the solid wood to match. This may be waxed and rubbed to the mellow tones of old walls and the cost is comparatively small. This wood panelling may cover the entire wall, it may be to within a yard or so of the ceiling, or it may be a dado, or the dado and the fireplace end of the room. It may be of different materials, oak, walnut, beach, pine, chestnut, gumwood, and often painted. French and English Renaissance 'interiors require walls of oak and walnut, either entirely or partially panelled. Elizabethan panelling was of small square oak panels and extended to the ceiling. In Colonial America the panelling was frequently of pine or other native woods in natural finish and waxed, but more often painted in light or greyed tones as white, grey, oyster, ivory, green and blue-green. 'This 'was_ especially used in the Georgian period. Pine vertical boarding is suitable to Early American rooms. 154 There is a beauty and distinctiveness about panelling that is hard to achieve in any other kind of interior finish. It marks the smart interior today as it did a century or more ago. A simple and inexpensive means of panelling a wall is by means of canvas and picture moulding, and can be done by any capable woman. It is suitable to large or small rooms and as a background for most every kind of furnishing. Decorator's canvas, unbleached muslin, or special products made for this purpose are pasted on the walls, entirely covering them. They are then divided into the spaces desired. If the walls are high enough, have a dado about to and one-half or three feet from the floor, a cornice at the angle between the wall and ceiling and a baseboard. If the room is low leave out the dado and cornice, although a cornice, if nothing more than a picture moulding is desirable in most cases. The walls are divided into panels, the width and length depending upon the wall space. It is well not to have too many different sizes, or cut up the wall space too much as it gives a feeling of restlessness. Make a panel to fit the smallest wall space, leaving a suitable margin at sides, top and bottom; then use this as a unit, repeating it or making the larger panels two or three times its size. Distinctive schemes can be worked out by making a model to scale of the walls of your room and trying different effects. Panels over doors and windows should have four mouldings. Do not use the top of the door or window trim for one side. In selecting mouldings try to get them of graceful and pleasing design. Give them one coat of paint before putting on wall. Mitre the corners and nail on with small brads, then cover brads with putty before painting final coat. (The mouldings RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE may be applied directly to wall, instead of on canvas, if it is in good condition and there is no danger of it cracking.) The whole wall is then painted and may be done in different ways, paint mouldings and wall alike, or tthe mouldings a tone lighter or darker than the walls, or a contrasting color. The first' is the most satisfactory, or the mouldings might be a tone darker than the panels. In French rooms gold was often used on the mouldings. Contrasting mouldings usually give a gaudy, theatrish look to a room. The panels themselves are often made more decorative by stippling, glazing or antiquing, or by the use of paper or fabrics. May I suggest here a very fine method of keeping painted walls, whether panelled or plain, and also the rough texture walls in excellent condition? That is, after the final coat of paint has dried thoroughly, apply a starch dressing. This will not only tone down the walls to a uniform finish, but will catch the dirt, and when they are washed the starch will wash off, bringing the dirt and smoke, and the walls are left clean and fresh. Another starch coat is then put on. In this way the 'walls are kept as beautiful as new. This method is used by high class decorators in the very finest homes and apartments. The recipe and directions for this dressing are as follows: A handful of ordinary laundry starch should be put into a pail with just enough cold water to dissolve it. When the starch is all in solution, add a little boiling water, until the starch becomes thick and of jellylike consistency. The starch will be perfectly clear when it is mixed in this manner, and the next step is to pour cold water into the mixture until it is about as thick as milk. It is then ready to brush on the wall with an ordinary flat wall brush. A pinch of dry color may be added to the starch to YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL tint it slightly like the wall color. This should be mixed into the starch before the final thinning and thoroughly stirred. These directions must be followed carefully for best results. If cold 'water is used the starch is not cooked and will leave a white powder on the walls. It is unwise to use a starch coat on walls or ceiling which have been painted with only one coat over an old darker surface, as thin places, laps and streaks will show, but starching on two or three coat jobs 155 c and upon fine jobs of decoration is well worth what little it costs. Next month we will consider other methods of wall treatment, as well as ceilings and woodwork. I hope that I shall be able to help you in your wall problems and that I have impressed upon you the necessity for a right background so that costly mistakes and experiments are avoided.