_ A Wrong and Right Way By Heloise Merkley Brief playlet illustrating two ways of Relief Society Teaching. Characters: Announcer. Two Relief Society Teachers. Hostess. Properties: Relief Society Magazines, August, 1932. Teachers' Report Book and Pencil. Clock, for Announcer. May be presented without any stage or curtains. If a stage is available the Announcer may be omitted from the cast and the curtains drawn to indicate the passing of time. Part I Announcer. Dear Relief Society Teachers: In presenting this little skit today we are asking you to use your eyelids for the curtains, your imaginations for the stage setting, and your own logic to tell which is the right and which the wrong way of doing your work as Visiting Relief Society Teachers. Our clock will tell you how fast the time is supposed to pass, as we must be very brief. Everyone please close your eyes until I say "Curtain." (She sets the clock at 2 o'clock, the Hostess takes her place, pantomiming sewing on the sewing machine, and the Two Teachers place themselves ready to enter.) "Curtain." All eyes open. (Announcer sits quietly, holding clock. ) First Teacher (Knocking as though at door, to second Teacher Aside): I almost hope she isn't home. We've been so slow getting around today. Second Teacher: She is, though. I can hear the sewing machine. Hostess: Oh, dear, another interruption! Well, if it's somebody selling something, I think I'll just shut the door in his face. (Going to meet Teachers, pantomiming opening of door.) Oh, how do you do! Do come in. I know you're the Relief Society Teachers, and I'm glad to see you. Second Teacher: Yes, we carry our label with us! (Laughingly showing the Magazine and Teachers' Report Book.) And I guess if it wasn't for Relief Society Teaching, I never would get to visit any of my neighbors. I tell Jim I'm so busy lately I never know which way to turn next. ~ Hostess: We're all busy, I guess, what with school just starting and everybody so hard hit by this depression and trying to make ends meet somehow or other. Do sit down! (All sit.) First Teacher: And what a relief it is to have school started again. I thought I'd lose my mind those last two weeks, between children finding new things to quarrel about and all the work I had piled up to do. And I'd no more than get settled down to a job when there'd be another quarrel to settle and then have to get back to it with nerves all upset. Hostess: Isn't it the limit the way the Old Nick just seems to get into the youngsters the last week or two before school starts? And it seems worse this year than ever. I believe they hear us worry about this depression till they get to worrying, too. I'm glad to have somebody come to see me who has something else to talk about. 166 First Teacher (Glancing at open Magazine): We have such a wonderful subject this year, too. It's so full of inspiration. Second Teacher: I feel that way, too. I'm so sick of hearing people tell how we're all apt to starve together if things keep on the way they are going now. I just hate the word depression. Hostess (To What did you say the subject was? Second Teacher: That poor little Mrs. Hansen was talking with me this morning. Didn't you know they were back? They just seem to get lower down the scale every year, but no matter where they go for the summer, they always come back to our ward for the winter. I tell Jim they just take advantage of our Relief Society President. They know she and the Bishop are so soft hearted they'll give out of their own pockets themselves if the organization doesn't have any money. First Teacher: Our subject for this year is— Second Teacher: And he's completely laid up with rheumatism or a stretched ankle tendon or something. So there's all that family with nobody to earn a cent except the mother and the oldest girl. And with this depression on, I'm sure I don't know how they'll be able to make it. She was telling me this morning, she'd be delighted to do housework for fifty cents a day. She was trying to beg or borrow some old chairs. They had to sell their furniture when they left in order to get out of the valley, and so far she's hardly been able to rake anything together. First Teacher: Our subject for— Hostess: It certainly is a shame when you see people trying to get along with no resources or anything, and just right down to nothing. Second Teacher: 1 guess about the main thing that's the matter with him First Teacher): RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is that he's suffering from ingrown laziness. Some people make me tired. He's just like that lazy Bill Simms, only he's older so maybe there is something the matter with him. Hostess: I heard Bill had gone with his wife to her people in California. We won't have them on our hands this winter again, will we? Second Teacher: Oh, no, I guess not! They're back again with the two babies. You know I just don't have any patience with Bill's wife. Even if she is only a kid, she ought to have sense enough to know that shiftless fellow never will get anywhere in this world and stay with her father before Bill starves them all to death. First Teacher: I saw her and the babies yesterday and they all looked well-fed enough. I thought Bill must be working from their looks. Second Teacher: Oh, you needn't worry. Bill and a job just don't stick together. They say when she went out to her folks last spring she told Bill she was through with him and he told her to get out and stay out. But it wasn't a week till he followed her. Her father rustled him a job, too, and he stuck it out for a month or so. But when he quit or got fired, they say her father told her he was willing to take care of her and the children but he wouldn't have Bill hanging around—she could take her choice. So here they are back again and the ward can worry about feeding them all winter. He'll manage to get money for cigarettes, but he won't be able to buy food for them. They are well fed now, I guess, after being with her folks three months or so but it won't take long before they'll be as thin and pale as ever. Hostess: What if my husband should lose his job, and us with our A WRONG AND RIGHT WAY brood of four? Our home isn't entirely paid for yet, and it wouldn't be many months till we'd be on the ward too! Second Teacher: Oh, no, you wouldn't! You'd find something someway. Your man is an entirely different caliber from that shiftless Bill! He never would hold a job two months straight when we were on the very crest of prosperity! You can't tell me the best workers in the world will let their families starve. Any of us might be hit by hard luck once in a while, but some just lie around and coax hard luck to come and stay with them. We'll come out of this depression one of these days, and the ones that want to work will soon pick up what they have lost in the last year or two. But Bill Simms will still be wondering why the world don't pay him the living it owes him. And that poor little fool of a wife sticking to him when her father would take good care of her and her children. Hostess: Maybe he'll have the privilege yet. She might decide that Bill isn't worth sticking to. And still, you can't help sort of admiring her loyalty. I guess she thinks he's as wonderful as we think our men are Second Teacher: Maybe she'll still stick when she doesn't think he's any more wonderful than we think our men are—just because he's her man. I always did say us women didn't have a lick of sense once we picked out a man to stick to (her voice grows lower, almost indistinguishable. ) Announcer (Stands up and slowly turns hands of clock to indicate the passing of an hour as she speaks while Second Teacher's voice grows softer) We ask you now to imagine the rest of their conversation for the hour we show you by the clock to 167 have passed. And now we finish this part. (Announcer sits and Second Teacher's voice grows louder). First Teacher: Goodness: Look what time it is! My children will be home from school and there's no telling what mischief they'll be up to if T'm not there. We must go. And here we haven't touched on the lesson atall! Hostess: You can stay long enough for that, can't you? Second Teacher: Oh, no! I never realized it was so late. But we've had a wonderful visit anyhow. We'll give both lessons next time. You never do come to see me. Do drop in sometime. Hostess: I will. And you call again, both of you. Good-day! (Exit the Teachers). My word! The whole afternoon gone and nothing accomplished! Announcer (Turning hands of clock back to 2 o'clock): And now you close your eyes and imagine that the curtain has dropped. Imagine also that what you have seen has never been presented, while we go back to the beginning and do it all over differently. Once again, "Curtain." All eyes open. (Hostess is again seated pantomiming the running of a sewing machine, and the Two Teachers ready to call upon her.) First Teacher (Knocking as though at door, to Second Teacher, aside): I almost hope she isn't home. We've been so slow getting around today. Second Teacher: She is, though. I can hear the sewing machine. Hostess: Oh dear, another interruption! Well, if it's somebody selling something, I think I'll just shut the door in his face. (Going to meet Teachers, pantomiming opening of door.) How do you do! Come in. I know you're the Relief Society 168 Teachers, and I'm so glad to see you. Second Teacher: Yes, we carry our label with us! (Laughingly showing the Magazine and Teacher's Report Book.) And I guess if it wasn't for Relief Society Teaching, I never would get to visit any of my neighbors. I tell Jim I'm so busy lately I never know which way to turn next. Hostess: We're all pretty busy, I guess, what with school just starting and everybody so hard hit by this depression and trying to make ends meet somehow or other. Sit down! (All sit.) First Teacher: And what a relief it is to have school started again. I vow I thought I'd lose my mind those last two weeks, between children finding new things to quarrel about and all the work I had piled up to do. And I'd no more than get settled down to a job when there'd be another quarrel to settle and I'd get back to my work with nerves all upset. Hostess: Isn't it the limit the way the Old Nick just seems to get into the youngsters the last week or two before school starts? And it seems worse this year than ever. I believe they hear us worry about this depression till they get to worrying, too. I'm glad to have somebody come to see me who has something else to talk about. First Teacher (Glancing at open Magazine): We have such a wonderful subject this year, too. It's so full of inspiration. Second Teacher: I feel that way, too. I'm sO sick of hearing people tell how we're all apt to starve together if things keep on the way they are going now. I just hate the word depression. That poor little Mrs.— Hostess (To First Teacher): What did you say the subject was? First Teacher: "The Beatitudes." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE You know, they tell us that the Sermon on The Mount is the greatest sermon that has ever been preached and preserved in literature. I love to read it over and imagine all those people gathered on the beautiful mountain, away up above the lovely Sea of Galilee, sitting about listening to the Master they had learned to love because he had healed so many of them and was so kind. Second Teacher: The lesson says he would be sitting, too, because that was the custom among the Jews. You know, I think it would seem more intimate and friendly somehow than the way we always have people stand up to preach to us. When I teach a class of children, I love to sit with them gathered up all around me. It seems like we can get so much closer that way than with one standing while the rest sit. Hostess: More like a father or mother with their children, isn't it? I didn't know that about Jesus sitting down to preach. I do like the idea, too. I'll remember that. First Teacher: And the loveliest part of his great sermon that the world considers such a literary masterpiece—the very heart of it all—is the few verses that have been called the "Beatitudes." Hostess: "Beatitude?" Just what does that word men, anyhow? I've always thought it had such a nice sound and I've been going to look it up in the dictionary, only I never could think of it when I had time. First Teacher: Our lesson tells us that it means "Blessed." I looked it up in the dictionary yesterday when I was studying the lesson and it gave "Blessedness" as the first meaning and then it gave "highest felicity," too. Somehow, it always carries the connotation of beauty, to my mind. Not only blessedness, but a beautiful blessedness. As though A WRONG AND RIGHT WAY to gain the qualities of mind and spirit that Christ names in His Beatitudes and make them part of our lives were, somehow, to gain an inner loveliness of life, a sweetness of character that we cannot get in any other way. When you read all these articles on "charm" in the magazines, it seems to me as though, after all they have said about thoughtfulness of others and kindness and so on giving personal charm, they might just as well go back to the Bible and quote the Beatitudes and tell us that if we wish to have the truest and deepest charm of all, we should live up to them. Hostess: That is a lovely thought. I used to be able to recite all the Beatitudes when I was a child, but I have about forgotten them now. Second Teacher: We are only supposed to consider the first one today. It is "Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." Hostess: 'What a_ wonderful promise to the poor in spirit! That theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven! First Teacher: I like the explanation given in the lesson today. It defines "poor in spirit" as being humble, teachable, eager to learn. Like the poor in this world's goods are always humble and hungry—so the poor in spirit are always humble in their own estimation and eager to gain spiritual food, so that whatever truth comes their way, they seize upon it and make it their own, a very part of their lives. Then if we think of joy and eternal progress which we hope for in the next world, we can see how the poor in spirit, those who are humble and teachable will someday have it for their own. Second Teacher: One thing in this lesson puzzles me. It says here, "every syllable of it He had already written down in deeds." "He not only taught the Gospel, He was the 169 Gospel" and then further down, it says, "They contain the heart of the Master's teachings and show His spirit and way of life. They furnish a true picture of the Man of Galilee, a sort of autobiography of His real life." It doesn't seem to me like Jesus would have been "poor in spirit" if He was the Son of God and knew so much more than all the rest of us put together. It seems to me that He would have been the "richest in spirit" of anybody. Hostess: He was poor enough in this world's goods, we know that. First Teacher: Well, by the time He preached the Sermon on the Mount and gave us all those wonderful rules for Blessedness, I guess we might say He was rich in spirit, and that He had already won the Kingdom of Heaven for Himself, in one sense. But consider when he was a child. The Bible tells us that He grew in grace and goodness. And when He was twelve, He talked in the temple with the doctors and asked and answered questions. He was asking and answering questions and they marveled at Him. Even as a man, when He entered upon His mission—look how humble and patient He always was about letting people ask Him questions and about listening to their side of a discussion first? Even when Satan tempted Him, He listened to what the Devil had to say with courtesy at least; and in every recorded argument in the New Testament, we find Him always willing 'to listen to the other person, no matter how wicked they were. And then, if we consider that God is still learning and progressing, as we must if we believe in the doctrine of eternal progress, isn't Jesus even now, as a member of the Godhead, "poor in spirit" in the sense of being humble in the face of truth and eternally teachable? 170 Second Teacher: Yes, it's a lesson to us not to take the attitude we sometimes feel like taking—that because we have the Gospel and so much more is given us than others have, we are better than they. Maybe some of us who think we have learned everything worth knowing just because we have grown up in the church, had better take an "about face" in our attitudes and begin being poor in spirit for a change. First Teacher: Let's read the rest of the lesson together, and if you'll get us copies of the Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Bible, we might enjoy looking up these other references on the subject, that it gives at the end of the lesson. (Her voice grows soft as) Announcer (Turning clock onehalf hour ahead): Again we ask you to imagine the rest of their discussion for the half hour we show you by the clock to have passed. And now we finish this part of our playlet. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE (As she seats herself, the Teachers are bidding Hostess goodbye, all standing.) Hostess: It seems like you've been here only a few minutes. I don't know when I've enjoyed a visit from Relief Society Teachers so much. I'm certainly going to try to be "poor in spirit" from now on. (Come again next month. I don't want to miss any of these lessons. Second Teacher: We surely will. And you come to see us. Good-bye. (Exit. ) Hostess: Well, I feel all rested. I'm glad they came. I can get more done now, I believe, than if I hadn't been interrupted, I was getting so nervous and their visit was such an inspiration. (Sits down to sew.) Announcer: And now we drop the imaginary "Curtain" for The End. Note: Presented at the Relief Society Teacher's Convention of Maricopa Stake at Mesa, Arizona, September 25, 1932.