[Vol50 | March | Magazine Page 200 | PDF Page 211]
[Title: Use of The Relief Society Magazine in Work Meeting]

--- PAGE 199 (PDF page 210) ---
PICTURES FOR THE HOME

TAKE a good look at your pictures. Are they a constant joy or a jarring disturbance? Pictures are of such importance that they can make or break a room's atmosphere. Therefore, they should be chosen, framed, and hung as attractively as possible.

Examine your pictures carefully. Discard those not good for your purpose. Never hang a picture you don't like; put it away for a time. Your taste may change. Good pictures do not go out of style. Key your pictures to your scheme of decoration and display them to best advantage. Don't be ashamed to admit that some pictures declared good are not to your taste and will not fit into your decor. Even your favorite picture cannot survive an inappropriate frame, tasteless surroundings, bad lighting, poor hanging; and yet inexpensive lithographs, arranged with skill, can give life to the whole room.

Matting, Mounting, Framing Pictures

Mats are placed at the front of a picture to enlarge and enhance its appearance, improve its proportions, or relate it to the room. As a rule, they are 3" wide at top and sides, and 3½" wide at the bottom. If you aren't sure, cut paper to try. Mats may be white or colored. Mountings are placed behind the picture.

General Indications for Various Types of Pictures

1. Original prints in black and white, such as etchings or lithographs, are usually matted in white or cream and framed with glass and narrow mountings of natural or black wood. Gold lines are sometimes added.

2. Original color prints are usually put in proportionately larger mats with wider frames. Glass is always used and simple natural wood frames or painted ones.

3. Water colors are usually put in proportionately larger mats with wider frames. Glass is always used and simple natural wood frames or painted finishes.

4. Pastels, similar to water colors, are matted only when necessary.

5. Oils are framed closely except for occasional use of extra wide inserts. Picture and frame should be closely related.

6. Photographs may gain importance by matting. Ordinarily they are framed close to the picture with glass, in natural wood, gold, or silver.

7. Fine reproductions of oils, water colors, and prints are framed to resemble their originals.

Arranging and Hanging Pictures

If a picture is worth hanging, it is worth hanging well. Grouping pictures is usually more interesting and dramatic than spotting them. There are two kinds of balance to consider in arranging a group of pictures.

1. Symmetrical Balance

Pictures are usually the same size and subject, matted alike, and framed alike. This arrangement is good over a bookcase, on a stairway, or hall. Pictures should relate to the space, the furniture, and the room.

2. Asymmetrical Balance

Pictures with unusual shapes, sizes, old, new, or combined with bric-a-brac, may be arranged in interesting ways. This type of hanging takes more skill, but is more interesting.

If You Do It Yourself:

1. Collect the right tools and equipment.
2. Learn how to use them.
3. Learn various ways of finishing.
4. Learn correct and simple methods of decorating.
5. Inexpensive mounts can be made of wallboard with a covering of shellac to give them a glazed protective finish.
6. Steel pins, phonograph needles, or angle hooks may be used to hang pictures. Soft pencil or chalk rubbed on the frame eyes will mark places to hang.
7. Passe-partouts (pieces of cardboard, wood, or other material with the center part cut out for the placement of a picture) are often used effectively for

201

--- PAGE 200 (PDF page 211) ---
MARCH 1963

small pictures or groups. They may consist of binding tapes covering picture, mat, and glass. They are good for use with antique costume pictures and flower or bird prints. Mats may be plain, French, or black with gold lines.

Suggestions for Experimentation

Small delicate water colors in off-white frames or small family photos attached to velvet or ribbon around a mirror in a bedroom or hall.

A collection of small pictures or snapshots of odd sizes and shapes in one large frame, matted with wallpaper, is effective in a den or family room. Coins or other interesting objects may also be used.

A group of like frames and mats with removable panels that can be changed from time to time hung at eye level above book shelves.

Groups of plates in a dining area.

Do's and Don't's

Do

1. Hang pictures with blind wire concealed.

2. Use rings at top and bottom of small pictures to keep them hanging straight.

3. Use discretion in choosing pictures for use with patterned wallpaper. When hanging picture on heavily patterned wallpaper, use good sized plain mats or contrasting color to make pictures stand out.

4. Keep picture in proportion to piece of furniture over which it hangs. Don't overpower the picture or the furniture.

5. Prevent frames from marking walls by gluing cork liners from bottle caps on the bottom corners.

6. Arrange groups on the floor before hanging them on the wall.

7. Hang pictures at eye level or a little below, depending on space and effect desired. (Most people hang pictures too high.)

Don't

1. Hang floral prints on floral wallpaper.
2. Hang pictures on scenic wallpaper.

202

Use of the Relief Society Magazine in the Work Meeting

As Explained by
Jeanne R. Scott

Member, General Board of Relief Society

This table featured articles made up from patterns taken from The Relief Society Magazine. It showed the help available to the work meeting department from the Magazine.

--- PAGE 201 (PDF page 212) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Display From Mesa Stake
Color Photograph by Lorenzo S. Young

Articles on display were made from patterns published in the issues
listed below

Hot pads from "Holders for Pans" — September 1960, page 587.
"A Strawberry Pin Cushion" — October 1960, page 662.
"Christmas Aprons" — October 1960, page 653.
Quilting pictures from "Let's Learn to Quilt" — September 1961, page 591.
Pine cone dolls — "Holiday Table" — December 1961, page 827.
Holiday apron — "Aprons for Mr. and Mrs. Santa Claus" — November 1961, page 747.
Worm pull toy — "Christmas Gifts" — November 1961, page 742.
Toy duck — "Stuffed Toys Are Delightful" — March 1962, page 211.
Candlesticks — "Make It Out of Imagination" — February 1962, page 102.
"Toddler's Cover-Apron" — June 1962, page 438.

Floral arrangements were made up using directions from:

"Flower Arrangements for Springtime" — March 1951, page 177.
"Whys, Wherefores, and Fun with Green Plants" — March 1960, page 181.

Recipes included:

Rolls from "Say 'Merry Christmas' With Fancy Yeast Rolls" — December 1959, page 823.
Easy filled cookies — "Recipes for a Picnic" — July 1961, page 456.
Carrot cake — "Something Different for Dinner" — April 1961, page 256.
Candy for "Your Easter Basket" — April 1962, page 274.
"Homemade Candy for Winter Evenings" — January 1962, page 36.

203

--- PAGE 202 (PDF page 213) ---
ARTS AND CRAFTS

Ribbons and Roses

[ILLUSTRATION: Pink/red rose design]

Jennie R. Scott
Member, General Board of Relief Society

A wide variety of arts and crafts made in Relief Society were on display at the work meeting department of the Relief Society Annual General Conference last October. These displays emphasized the originality and ingenuity of the Relief Society members in fashioning useful and beautiful articles for the home.

Ribbons and Roses

An umbrella (small frame covered with net and decorated with roses) or a heart centerpiece would be attractive for a bridal shower or an announcement party. Aprons can be decorated with the roses, and favors made for place cards. Small sprays for decorating packages, jars, and candles add interest and beauty. Nosegays for graduating girls, bouquets for bridesmaids, and even the bridal bouquet can be made from these lovely roses. A corsage costs very little and is a nice remembrance.

A small living fir tree decorated with ribbons and roses for office or apartment is most attractive at Christmas time, as are wreaths and a kissing bell.

A ribbon rose on a tray for the sick room would help to brighten the morning for someone who is ill.

204