[Vol50 | January | Magazine Page 10 | PDF Page 13]
[Title: Modesty Protects Virtue (cont)]

--- PAGE 9 (PDF page 12) ---
MODESTY PROTECTS VIRTUE

been cut out by the General Authorities themselves. There are many sensible and decent people in the world who would support us. Why can we not join with them rather than with those who are so evil-minded that they design styles to emphasize sex, knowing very well that such an appeal is an invitation to sin?

Now, may I mention some of the other virtues, particularly the influence of our women in promoting love at home, a spirit of prayer, peace, and co-operation, rather than a spirit of quarreling in the home.

Family quarrels breed delinquency of both children and parents. Wouldn't you like to foster the spirit of love and prayer in your home, rather than the spirit of contention? The Savior taught us that the spirit of contention is the spirit of the devil.

Let us practice our religion in the home and strive for patience, good-

ness, forgiveness, and long-suffering, and yet develop the courage to fight evil and put it out of our lives.

Is physical exposure compatible with the gospel of Jesus Christ? Is quarreling in the home, is violation of the rules of honesty, is gambling, is violation of the Sabbath day?

Oh, sisters, let virtue garnish your thoughts unceasingly. Plan your family life so that virtue will garnish the thoughts of your children also. Be firm and courageous in standing for the right, regardless of what the world designs, or how it may beckon you into its evil pursuits.

We must ever remember that while we are in the world we must not be of the world. We must practice virtue and holiness before the Lord always, for so he has commanded us. I pray that we may do so in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.

Words Written in White

Ida Elaine James

Today, the world is chastened. Through quiet snows
Upon the streets move common mortals, while
With winter's luminous aureole; each goes
To find his dream or his despair, each bright
With brief, ethereal beauty. The quiet air
Is pregnant now with loveliness that sifts
Magic alike on aging cheek and hair
And heads of children laughing down the drifts.

There is no sorrow through a world of slow
And muted wonders such as these that bring
Pulse to the buried wish of long ago,
Strength to forgotten prayer, the blossoming
Of light, from out a world of death and frost,
To April dreams the heart has somehow lost.

11

--- PAGE 10 (PDF page 13) ---
Relief Society Magazine's
Fiftieth Anniversary

Marianne C. Sharp, Editor

THIS January 1963 issue of The Relief Society Magazine marks the fiftieth year of its publication by the General Board of Relief Society.

The need for periodicals within the Church has always been recognized. With the publication of the modern scriptures came the printing of weekly or monthly periodicals even on foreign soil. Rare and valuable are original copies of such periodicals as The Times and Seasons, the Mormon, The Millennial Star, to mention but a few.

It was only thirty years after the saints arrived in the Salt Lake Valley that President Brigham Young saw to it that the sisters had a periodical of their own under the name The Woman's Exponent, excerpts from which have been included in The Relief Society Magazine for the past nineteen years, under the heading "Sixty Years Ago."

The Woman's Exponent served as the official publication of Relief Society until 1914, when uniform courses of study were provided by the General Board of Relief Society through a published series of Guide Lessons distributed free which were enlarged in 1915 and known as The Relief Society Magazine. The groundwork for the Magazine was laid at the officers meeting of the General Relief Society Conference in April 1914, and voted upon favorably. The annual subscription price was to be $1, and the monthly issue was to be forty-eight pages with illustrations. It would require 12,000 paid subscriptions, the sisters were cautioned, to make it self-supporting.

At this time in 1914, Emmeline B. Wells, who had been editor of the Woman's Exponent since 1877, was President of the Relief Society, with Clarissa S. Williams, First Counselor, and Julina L. Smith (wife of President Joseph F. Smith) Second Counselor. These sisters chose Susa Young Gates (daughter of President Brigham Young) as the first Editor of the new Magazine, with Jeannette P. Hyde, Business Manager, and Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary, as Assistant Manager. An Advisory Committee consisted of Clarissa S. Williams, Julina L. Smith, and Rebecca N. Nibley (wife of Presiding Bishop Charles W. Nibley). The offices were at 28 Bishop's Building (just recently torn down). Interesting incidents have been related of how Sisters Hyde and Lyman went up and down Main Street canvassing for advertisements to meet the payroll.

President Joseph F. Smith, who was in California in December, sent the following telegram of good wishes:

12

--- PAGE 11 (PDF page 14) ---
[ILLUSTRATION]

FACSIMILE OF THE COVER OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
FOR 1915

Description of the cover, from a note in the January 1915 issue of the Magazine:
"The beautiful picture on our cover is one of the four bas-reliefs on the base of the
exquisite Sea-Gull Monument in the Temple Square, by our artist, M. M. Young. The
artist is a grandson of President Brigham Young" (page 44).

Ocean Park, California, December 5, 1914.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells,
General Board of the Relief Society:

Accept my sincere congratulations and
heartiest greetings in honor of the birth
of the Relief Society Magazine. May it
enter upon its noble mission, so firmly
entrenched about by the bulwarks of
worthy and capable endeavor and enduring truth that its career may be successful
and glorious.
                    JOSEPH F. SMITH

In the January 1915 editorial "The
Mission of Our Magazine" was detailed:

It is impossible for us to be sure what
any child of ours may become. How
much more impossible, then, to forecast
what shall be the future, the final character, of this literary infant, newly-born. If
the Editor of this enterprise might shape
its policy and fashion its fulfilment we
would have this magazine filled with the

13

--- PAGE 12 (PDF page 15) ---
JANUARY 1963

[PHOTOGRAPH] [PHOTOGRAPH] [PHOTOGRAPH]

[PHOTOGRAPH] [PHOTOGRAPH]

EDITORS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

At the top: Susa Young Gates, 1914-1922; Alice Louise Reynolds, 1923-1930; Mary Connelly Kimball, 1930-1937.
At bottom: Belle S. Spafford, 1937-1945; Marianne C. Sharp, 1945-

Spirit of the Lord from cover to cover. In order to do that, no article should be published which would encourage vanity, hurtful luxury, sin, or any evil passion of the human breast. Rather would we make of this magazine a beacon light of hope, beauty and charity.

The Christian world have all the virtues. They practice many of the moral precepts of true religion; they are charitable, kind, honest, and intelligent. They lack one thing, and one thing only, and that is the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness, taught by those having authority. It is, therefore, the spirit and genius of the Gospel which we would like to develop and expound brightly, attractively, cheerfully, and hopefully, to the readers of the Relief Society Magazine.

While the baby Magazine may have been weak financially, it was strong and robust in the message it imparted. The early editorials reflect not only the pressing problems of the day, for World War I had begun before the year was out, but they were also filled with encouragement and exhortations from President Wells, who had known the Prophet and undergone the blessings and privations of pioneering and lived on at that late date to lead the women of the Church.

An editorial on Success asks the questions, "Who are the successful

14