[Vol50 | December | Magazine Page 918 | PDF Page 957]
[Title: A Lovely Gift — Oriental Silk Panel]

--- PAGE 917 (PDF page 956) ---
[ILLUSTRATION - Collection of decorative paper snowflakes in various colors including red, blue, green, and purple arranged on white background]

TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL

It is a good idea to experiment on regular white tissue wrapping paper before you will want to create the lovely designs from colored paper.

Most hobby shops sell the tissue paper in beautiful shades of magenta, turquoise, blue, green, red, orange, yellow, lavender, and other colors.

We have all had the experience of creating snowflakes while in school, especially in the wintertime. You will find your children will love to join in and, before you know it, you will have become an artist with tissue paper.

919

--- PAGE 918 (PDF page 957) ---
A Golden Candle
for Christmas

Ardelle West

This tall and radiant candle is made from painted or spray-painted tin cans in graduated sizes, joined together, and decorated with odds and ends of jewelry—colored stones and rhinestones. The medallions are made of lace and they are glued to the candle.

Step 1. Use a large can for the base, perhaps a juice can. Do not empty the can as the weight of the liquid is needed to keep the candle from tipping over.

2. Fit a No. 2½ can inside the top of the can used for the base. Cut one inch from the top of this can and discard this piece. Then split down the edge about 2½ inches every ¼ inch all around the can.

3. With long-nosed pliers, curl these edges under.

4. Fit another can, about 6 inches tall, inside the No. 2½ can.

5. Fit another shorter inside the above can and cut down and curl as directed above.

6. Fit another 4-inch can on top of this.

7. Fit a small frozen juice can inside the can described above, split and curl as before. This will be the can which holds the candle.

8. Cement the cans together with a good metal cement and let them dry thoroughly overnight.

9. Decorate the cans with bits of heavy lace, cut in various shapes, or fit a piece of lace around each can, covering it completely, or cut lace borders. Attach lace with strong glue or cement.

10. Attach upholstery braid around the top and bottom of each of the large cans.

11. When all cement or glue has dried thoroughly, spray the candle in a pale gold color, silver color or other color, as desired.

12. Apply the trimming jewels with dart cement. The more jewels used, the more elegant the candle holder will be.

920

--- PAGE 919 (PDF page 958) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Berta Josuks

MAKE
MARZIPAN
FOR
CHRISTMAS

Marzipan, a delicious sweetmeat of European origin, is easily made, and its possibilities of variation in form, color, and flavor make it a delight for special occasions such as children's parties, bridal showers, holidays, and especially for Christmas.

15 bitter almonds, or, if small, 25 bitter almonds
1 lb. sweet almonds
1 lb. powdered sugar

whites of three large eggs or 4 small eggs, beaten
1 tbsp. light-colored syrup
enough rosewater for a stiff mixture

Variations

Some recipes substitute beaten egg yolk for the egg whites listed in the basic recipe, and finely sifted granulated sugar may be used instead of powdered sugar.

If bitter almonds (Prunus amygdalus, variety amara) cannot be obtained, the amount of sugar and sweet almonds can be increased as desired, and almond flavoring, to taste, may be added, or lemon, lime, or orange juice may be used for variety. Prepared almond paste can be purchased and substituted for grated almonds. Two and one half cups of almonds equal one cup of paste.

921

--- PAGE 920 (PDF page 959) ---
DECEMBER 1963

Methods of Preparation

Grate the almonds finely on a hand grater, or, if preferred, grind them in a hand grinder, or chop with mechanical chopper, or pound into a paste. Mix almonds and sugar and add egg whites or egg yolks, syrup, and rosewater, according to the recipe used. Knead well for 15 to 30 minutes.

Shape mixture into the form desired. This may be some shapes of fruit, such as strawberries, bananas, apples, plums, peaches, oranges, lemons, limes, pears; or some vegetable, such as tomatoes, potatoes, carrots, beets, turnips, asparagus, celery, parsnips, avocado; or especially for Christmas, the marzipan could be molded into the shape of Christmas trees, dolls, poinsettias, bells. The mixture may be shaped around a fruit center, such as a maraschino cherry or pieces of candied orange or lemon peel, dates, figs, or raisins.

The marzipan, after it has been molded into the desired shapes, can then be dipped into chocolate icing, standard white icing colored with food coloring, or part of the original mixture may be diluted with syrup, egg white, or a small amount of hot water to make a color mixture for dipping the marzipan shapes.

[ILLUSTRATION OF CHRISTMAS ORNAMENTS IN GREEN AND RED]

Home for the Holidays

Jane S. Tibbals and Hazel S. Cannon

When family and friends gather home for the holidays, these nostalgic reunions prompt entertaining and festive foods. The gaiety of the holly season brings out the party-giver in us.

We all have our own special menus for the traditional feast days. However, on those other occasions when we invite guests for a brunch, an open-house, or a buffet, we can make hostessing a joy by creating unusual and imaginative food dishes, many of which can be prepared in advance.

922