[Vol50 | March | Magazine Page 216 | PDF Page 227]
[Title: "We Can't Be Perfect"]

--- PAGE 215 (PDF page 226) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH: Hills of Scotland, Near Stranraer - Kennedy Castle Grounds of Lord Stair]

Harold M. Lambert

Hills of Scotland, Near Stranraer
Kennedy Castle Grounds of Lord Stair

Praise Is a Prayer

Margery S. Stewart

The stars hold conversations in the night,
Singing of delight
For being, finding it awesome to exist,
Much less to move in silver-winged flight.
The gulls are glad for their brief
Soarings, the fragile leaf
For seasons, fields hold in greening palm
The tender sheaf.
Small things praise by acts, the ant,
In the green comfort of the plant
Moves in minute obedience.
There is a gratitude in the sea's deep chant.
Lost in vast hungers and confusions, I
Forget the songs that I might praise thee by.

217

--- PAGE 216 (PDF page 227) ---
Old fences
and
Old memories

Annie Atkin Tanner

FENCES stand out in my memory of childhood days more than any other inanimate thing. They seem to be a part of the days I like to remember, and I hate to see them go, ugly as some of them were. One by one, the old fences have gone, and it is like old memories being burned alive—a very unhappy experience.

After long years of absence from my home town, I returned one day in spring, to find many things had changed. The place seemed half undressed with so many friendly fences gone. The houses that used to look serenely down at me over tall fences, now seemed to be boldly staring. I walked down the once familiar sidewalk which led me to my old home. It appeared strangely stark and lonesome and a little bit apologetic without the weathered brown, gray, picket fence which, in other days, seemed to warn any intruder not to enter.

As a barefoot child I ran along the narrow plank to which each picket was nailed. Each moment I rather expected to be pierced by one of the defiant lances, and my mother often told me that some day my dress might catch on one of the pickets and I would be hanged. The fact that I wasn't, has always convinced me that sometimes our guardian angels work overtime.

The neighbor on the north of our home had a much more enticing fence than ours. It had a long narrow board running along the top of it. This fence was a temptation to all the neighborhood children. It practically invited us to "come aboard" and run. Sometimes we fell off, but this was just a challenge to us to try our skill again. We were often scolded and threatened by the exasperated owner of the fence, but children are not easily discouraged.

The cedar-post fence was a strange species. The posts stood straight and tall and close together; they were strong and stolid and seemed to dare anyone to laugh at them.

Sister Smith lived alone in her

218

--- PAGE 217 (PDF page 228) ---
OLD FENCES AND OLD MEMORIES

home a block south of our house, which was set in the back of her lot. Around the house stood a post fence, a mighty fortress, which seemed to reach to the sky, when I was very young.

It was my duty, once or twice a week, to take down to our neighbor a brown pitcher of cold buttermilk or a blue bowl of vegetable soup. Not once did I ever go to the gate but always squeezed perilously through the narrow space between the posts, often spilling a little of the buttermilk or soup, and sometimes scratching my back on the rough posts.

The fence on the way to my Aunt Aggie's was built of beautiful, red sandstones from the lovely hills nearby.

My cousins and I loved to play on that fence. There was adventure there on the top. The rocks trembled under us and often one tumbled down, as we jumped from one rock to another. One day I was resting on the top of the wall and I looked down below. There, between two rocks, was a huge, gray lizard peeking up at me with his lidless eyes. I jumped from the wall in terror, just as the lizard slithered down and ran across my bare feet. From that day on the charm of the red-rock wall was ended.

THE river slowly meandered through our valley, about two miles away from my grandfather's home. In pioneer days he carried willows on his back to weave the fence between him and his neighbors, which kept them good friends for forty years.

By the time I can remember his fence, it was completely hidden by black currant bushes. Under their thick shade, my sisters and I built playhouses and made pink and red and yellow hollyhock dolls, with green currants pinned on for heads. Here on the hot July days, we lived in a world of imagination and dreamed of castles and kings.

As we grew older, the old fence in the front of our home formed a background for our romances. In the square gate posts two tiny brown house wrens built their nests each spring, and softly complained at night when the rusty hinges on the gate squeaked as we said goodnight. The same whining noise also seemed to let our mother know just what time we came home. Romance had such a perfect setting around that old, gray fence. On May nights pink Dorothy Perkins roses flaunted their loveliness, and the clear, yellow moonlight made the blossoming pear tree a thing of shimmering beauty.

On the highest branch of this tree, a mockingbird whistled and sang love songs to us, accompanied by the bass croaking of frogs hidden deep in orchard grass.

As we said our last goodnight, the orange moonlight filtered through the mulberry leaves, and the rose-scented path to the door left a make-believe world to be remembered with tenderness.

The old fences are gone. The fierce-looking picket fences with their green gates, the white, board fences, the sturdy post fences, and red-stone walls, have disappeared into the past, with our memories as their only hope of revival.

219

--- PAGE 218 (PDF page 229) ---
Make it with
HAMBURGER
and Save!

[ILLUSTRATION: Bowl with decorative floral pattern containing food]

Janet W. Breeze

ROLL it! Pat it! Break it! Stretch it! Whether company is coming or it's just another family meal, nowhere can you find a meat or meat product more versatile and economical than hamburger.

Every homemaker has her own pet list of hamburger variations. Maybe some of these will help to supplement yours:

Quick Stroganoff

¼ c. butter or substitute          ¼ tsp. pepper
½ c. minced onion                ¼ tsp. paprika
1 lb. ground beef                 1 can cream of mushroom soup,
1 clove garlic, minced               undiluted
2 tbsp. flour                    1 c. commercial sour cream
1½ tsp. salt                     snipped parsley

Sauté onion in butter or substitute until golden. Stir in hamburger, garlic, flour, salt, pepper, paprika, and sauté 5 minutes.

Add soup and simmer uncovered for 10 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in sour cream. Sprinkle with parsley and serve over hot, buttered noodles. Makes 4 to 6 servings.

Fortified Burgers

To one pound ground beef, add ½ c. shredded cheddar cheese; ½ small onion, chopped; 1 medium-sized tomato, chopped; one egg, slightly beaten; and 3 tablespoons wheat germ. Form into patties and sprinkle both sides with seasoned meat tenderizer to seal in juices.

Asparagus Sandwich

Sandwich cooked asparagus spears or tips between two cooked hamburger patties. Cover top patty with cream of mushroom soup gravy. Goes well with baked potatoes!

220