[Vol50 | December | Magazine Page 921 | PDF Page 960]
[Title: Make Marzipan for Christmas]

--- PAGE 920 (PDF page 959) ---
DECEMBER 1963

Methods of Preparation

Grate the almonds finely on a hand grater, or, if preferred, grind them in a hand grinder, or chop with mechanical chopper, or pound into a paste. Mix almonds and sugar and add egg whites or egg yolks, syrup, and rosewater, according to the recipe used. Knead well for 15 to 30 minutes.

Shape mixture into the form desired. This may be some shapes of fruit, such as strawberries, bananas, apples, plums, peaches, oranges, lemons, limes, pears; or some vegetable, such as tomatoes, potatoes, carrots, beets, turnips, asparagus, celery, parsnips, avocado; or especially for Christmas, the marzipan could be molded into the shape of Christmas trees, dolls, poinsettias, bells. The mixture may be shaped around a fruit center, such as a maraschino cherry or pieces of candied orange or lemon peel, dates, figs, or raisins.

The marzipan, after it has been molded into the desired shapes, can then be dipped into chocolate icing, standard white icing colored with food coloring, or part of the original mixture may be diluted with syrup, egg white, or a small amount of hot water to make a color mixture for dipping the marzipan shapes.

[ILLUSTRATION]

Home for the Holidays

Jane S. Tibbals
and Hazel S. Cannon

When family and friends gather home for the holidays, these nostalgic reunions prompt entertaining and festive foods. The gaiety of the holly season brings out the party-giver in us.

We all have our own special menus for the traditional feast days. However, on those other occasions when we invite guests for a brunch, an open-house, or a buffet, we can make hostessing a joy by creating unusual and imaginative food dishes, many of which can be prepared in advance.

922

--- PAGE 921 (PDF page 960) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL

Brunch, that delightful combination of breakfast and lunch, is a heart-warming way to extend yuletide hospitality.

Chicken Breast Gourmet                    Orange Rice Mold with Pimento Stars
Della Robbia Fruit Wreath                 Fruit Dressing
Stollen Stick Bread                       Butter
                        Celery
        Hot Chocolate With Whipped Cream and Red Cinnamon Candies

AFTER THE PLANE ARRIVES

Two whimsical red flannel figures, trimmed with gold ribbon braid, peal out a neat "welcome home." Home place mats, cut from felt with the pinking shears, contrast with the white Christmas tree plates, and bronze silverware accents the other golden touches. Hot chocolate in jolly Santa Claus mugs is crowned with a dollop of whipped cream sprinkled with red cinnamon candies (keep the chocolate mild and add a whisper of almond flavoring for a taste treat). The party-starter is tomato juice.

Featured for the main course are delicious chicken breasts gourmet and a mold of orange rice with plump light raisins and Christmasy pimento stars. An eye-catching Della Robbia fruit wreath (it's easy art) of color-bright canned and fresh fruits is served with a luscious tangy dressing—and what could be more homey than tantalizing jewel-studded holiday bread?

923

--- PAGE 922 (PDF page 961) ---
DECEMBER 1963

CHICKEN BREAST GOURMET

6 med. chicken breasts or 3 large breasts cut in half
1 tsp. salt
¼ c. butter or margarine
1 four-oz. can mushrooms, drained
2 tbsp. seasoned flour
1 tbsp. lemon juice
½ c. flour
⅛ tsp. pepper
1 tbsp. chopped onion
1 chicken bouillon cube
1 c. hot water
¼ c. light or heavy cream

Method: Mix flour, salt, and pepper in heavy paper bag. Add chicken and coat thoroughly. Brown slowly in butter or substitute. Remove chicken from pan and add onion and mushrooms; cook for 2 or 3 minutes. Stir in the 2 tbsp. of seasoned flour. Dissolve bouillon cube in hot water and add to flour-fat mixture and stir until smooth. Add slowly the lemon juice and cream. Arrange chicken in casserole or flat baking dish; spoon sauce over chicken; cover and bake in a medium oven for about 1 hour. Uncover for the last 15 minutes if a crisp chicken is desired. Serves 6.

ORANGE RICE MOLD WITH PIMENTO STARS

1 c. regular long grain rice
½ tsp. curry powder
¼ tsp. salt
⅓ c. light seedless raisins
pimentos
2 to 4 tbsp. frozen orange juice concentrate, undiluted
1 pt. water
2 tbsp. butter

Method: Combine curry and orange juice concentrate. (The amount of the juice used will depend on one's taste and the color desired). Mix to a smooth paste and add remaining ingredients. Place in baking dish and bake covered in a 325 to 350 degree oven for about 1½ hours or until rice is done. Mix lightly with a fork to distribute raisins. Pack in buttered mold and keep warm until serving time. Unmold on serving plate and trim with pimento stars. Individual molds may be used. Blanched almonds may be added just prior to placing in mold. Nice with fried or creamed chicken.

DELLA ROBBIA FRUIT WREATH

canned peach halves
canned pear halves
canned preserved or spiced crabapples
creamed cheese, softened and whipped with milk, if necessary
Tokay grapes
granulated sugar
canned pineapple slices
canned whole apricots
curly endive
2 or 3 green gumdrops
green grapes
egg white
pink or red coloring

Method: Use your own imagination and creativity in making this wreath, both in the selection of fruits and in the arranging of them. Remember that color contrasts are effective. The above ingredients are merely suggestive. Drain the canned fruit (save the juices for punch) and chill. Arrange a bed of curly endive on a large round serving dish or chop platter. Place all decorated fruit in a circle around a bowl of fruit dressing. The pears and peaches are pretty with two halves put together with a ruffle of cream cheese. Wipe the halves thoroughly and spread one half of the fruit around the edges with the cheese; add the other half and let the cheese extend beyond the joining of the two. A dried fruit and nut mixture may be used to stuff fruit, if desired. Make blushing pears by rubbing each half with a tiny bit of rosy coloring; stand upright, and garnish with leaves cut from green gumdrops. Frosted grapes add an artistic touch. Several hours or the day before assembling the wreath, dip bunches of grapes into slightly beaten egg white. Drain off excess egg white and dip in granulated sugar. Dry thoroughly.

FRUIT DRESSING

½ c. lemon juice
3 whole eggs
1 c. sugar
1 c. whipping cream

Method: Beat eggs and add sugar and lemon juice. Cook in double boiler or in a very heavy pan until mixture is thick, stirring constantly. Cool and fold in whipping cream. Makes about 3 cups of dressing. Delicious with all kinds of fruit salads. Keeps well in refrigerator.

924

--- PAGE 923 (PDF page 962) ---
THE CHRISTMAS HOME — INSIDE AND OUT

STOLLEN STICK BREAD (Easy Christmas Bread)

3 cakes compressed yeast or 3 pkgs. active dry yeast
¼ c. warm water
2½ c. whole milk
1¼ c. sugar

candied fruit and nuts
1 tbsp. salt
1 c. shortening (solid)
6 eggs
10 c. flour

Method: Dissolve the yeast cakes in warm water. Scald milk and add sugar, salt, and shortening. Cool. Beat the eggs and add to cooled milk mixture. Sift 10 cups flour and stir part into milk mixture to make a thin batter. Stir in the dissolved yeast cakes and remaining flour. Knead 2 or 3 minutes or until smooth. Place in large well-greased bowl. Cover tightly and store in refrigerator. It will keep 4 to 5 days. Shape as needed. May be made into all kinds of rolls and fancy breads—crescents, loaves, braids, or any number of other shapes. Add candied

fruit and nuts to dough for stollen bread. Top of bread may be decorated also. Let rise at room temperature until double in bulk and bake at 350 to 400 degrees. Bake rolls or bread sticks 10 to 15 minutes. Loaves will require an hour or more. Makes 18 large bread sticks or 3 to 4 loaves. May be frosted with glaze made from powdered sugar and undiluted frozen orange juice concentrate to make of spreading consistency. Decorations may be placed on top of glaze. Ideal for gift giving.

LIGHTING OF THE YULE LOG

What type of Christmas food and service teams best with the cheery note of the blazing hearth? The answer, of course, is the holiday buffet supper. Do-ahead foods with their festive touches, easy serving, opportunity to use one's prettiest serving pieces, and an informal setting for sharing the spirit of the season characterize this type of entertaining.

French Onion Soup
                                                    Parmesan Cheese Garnish
                           Melba Toast
                    Glorified Party Lasagne
Winter Pear Salad
                    Sweet French Dressing with Pomegranate Seeds
           Whole-Wheat Refrigerator Bread Sticks                 Butter
                           Relish Trees
Bavarian Cream                         Grandma's Christmas Bell Cookies

A holly tree, accented with fresh red carnations inserted in florists' tubes which hold water and keep the hall fresh for several days, points up the holiday green cloth of heavy ribbed cotton. Two smaller relish trees are laden with cherry tomatoes, Mexican peppers, olives, pickles, radish roses, and cauliflower segments. The trees are made of styrofoam balls (grapefruit may be used), impaled on dowels set in plaster of Paris in clay pots. Pots and dowels are painted white. As finishing touches, the tops of the pots are decorated; parsley is used as a base for the relish trees. Antique pearl-handled silver and white plates and cups add a sharp note.

Tasty French onion soup is ladled from an old tureen and makes a happy supper beginning as the yule log is lighted. The "pièce de résistance" is glorified party lasagne, a hearty, subtly seasoned dish, loved by young and old. With it is served a simple winter pear salad and whole-wheat bread sticks fresh from the oven. The piquant goodness of sweet French dressing with bright pomegranate seeds garnishes the pears. A lighthearted dessert, a Bavarian cream, resplendent in a green pressed glass compote, and Grandma's Christmas bell cookies are a gay finale.

925