[Vol50 | March | Magazine Page 222 | PDF Page 233]
[Title: Work Meeting — Maupassant — Moby Dick]

--- PAGE 221 (PDF page 232) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Lucy S. Guyas, Maker of Many Quilts

LUCY Standley Guyas, Salmon, Idaho, has pieced and quilted more than a hundred quilts in the last sixteen years. More than forty of these beautiful quilts were made in the effective six-point Lone Star pattern (similar to the one which is folded across Sister Guyas' lap). Many other patterns, including the bowknot and double bow knot, and wedding ring patterns have been used in this long-time quiltmaking project. The materials have included cotton fabrics of many kinds, prints, plain-colored, stripes and checks, and also many types of rayon and satin materials, as well as taffetas and brocades. The colors have been beautifully contrasted, accenting to the artistic requirements of the pattern. Many lovely quilts have been given to friends and neighbors and in this way a large number of homes have been beautified and made comfortable.

Mrs. Guyas is mother to three children and grandmother to nine. She has lived in Salmon for thirty-five years and is active in the Church, and in Relief Society.

Speak that kindly word and do that kindly deed that lingers in your heart. Who knows what ray of sunshine it may bring—and tomorrow may be too late.
—Pauline Bell

223

--- PAGE 222 (PDF page 233) ---
Keep My Own
Kit Linford

CHAPTER 3

Synopsis: Irene Spencer, who met her husband Dick in South Africa, comes to a small town near Salt Lake City, and sees for the first time the shabby old house which is to be her home. Dick plans to have his Grandfather and his young handicapped brother David live with them. Irene meets Dick's Aunt Ella who has cared for David since his mother died, and Aunt Ella, also, is accepted as a member of the new household.

ELLA was a one-woman army in a war against dirt. She attacked the grime that had accumulated in the big house with a vigor that left Irene breathless. As she worked, she talked. Irene had learned not to try to ease in a reply unless necessary. Ella talked more to herself and her enemy, the dirt, than to anyone else.

"Got to vacuum first, that's for sure." The whir of the machine formed a buzzing backdrop to her words. "Send drapes to the cleaners, so you can see that color they are. Can't stand to even take them down until they've been vacuumed, though. Like to choke us all to death, all that dust. What are we going to do with this rug? It'll take a miracle to get that soot out of it. I'd forgotten there was so much woodwork. It needs a good coat of polish, after we get it cleaned."

Davy moved like a small ghost through the rooms. He followed Ella as she worked, and she encouraged the child to remain nearby.

Irene felt haunted by the child. She would feel his presence, his empty eyes on her as she worked. If she turned to see him, he would be gone. Or she would glance up, to find him half-hidden by a drape or a chair, peeping out at her. If she tried to approach him or speak to him, he would shrink from her and disappear.

Bringing order out of chaos was no easy thing to do. As the remodeling progressed, electricians, plumbers, carpenters, and painters created and recreated a havoc of noise and clutter.

Each day Irene and Ella struggled valiantly through what seemed like never-ending mountains of dust, dirt, sawdust, paint, plaster, and other assorted materials. They found companionship in their mutual struggle against them. Irene was grateful for the numbness that hard work enforced on her mind.

She still felt like an interloping outsider. When she tried to visualize the future, she rejected such thoughts fearfully. Years seemed to stretch before her, with a house to care for in which she was an alien stranger, and a child to rear that she couldn't even talk to. She couldn't accustom herself to carrying on one-sided conversations with Davy, as Dick did. Besides, Davy wouldn't let her. He was lost and confused

[ILLUSTRATION: Victorian-style house with turret and ornate architectural details]

224

--- PAGE 223 (PDF page 234) ---
in the riot of the house, cared for, but largely ignored.

Even the solarium was not exempt from the clutter. It was hollowly empty when Dick moved his desk and files into it. Three walls of glass surrounded him, and in the U center of those windows, he set up his drawing board. Later he intended to partition the huge room into offices. At the moment, it became a convenient storage spot for paint cans, hammers, plumbing fixtures, draperies that had come back from the cleaners but would not be hung until the cleaning was finished, and other odds and ends that Ella, Irene, and the workmen saw fit to store away in it. Dick was good-natured about this usurpation of his domain, but Irene knew he would welcome any changes for the better.

She fell into bed each night so exhausted that, as she told Dick, frequently she was asleep before her head touched the pillow.

He frowned. "You'd better take it easy. You're trying to get too much done too fast. It'll wait."

"That's what I'm afraid of. It's waited too long already."

"You don't want to overdo, Irene."

"I'm perfectly all right," she said fondly. "The work's good for me. It keeps my mind occupied."

THE sea-grayness of his eyes darkened. "I know what you mean. I know how hard all this has been on you. The house, and Granddad and Ella, and especially Davy. I can't just forget them and go off and live my own life, Irene, even if that might be the easy way. They're mine. Blood's thicker than brine, they say...."

Tears rushed to her eyes. She saw his face through a blur. She had thought he didn't understand! "Oh, Dick, I know we can't do anything else! When I think of it rationally, I don't want to, either. I'm a woman grown. I'll be a mother soon. If I can't accept a few responsibilities, I'd be a poor excuse for a wife. I love you, and I love them, too. Because I do, I know I can work all this out. Just give me a little more time. I feel so strange, sometimes, coming here from a foreign country...." She forced herself to smile through the haze of her tears.

Buried again in the never-ending cleaning, she let her forced smile die a natural death. She had believed her words when she spoke them to Dick. Afterward, alone in the library with cliffs of books surrounding her, she looked inward upon herself and knew how immature and afraid she was.

She pulled books out and stacked them about the room while she cleaned the shelves. Someday she hoped to have time to read some of them. She turned a rich red leather bound volume over in her hands to examine the title, then paused. She had the unmistakable eerie feeling of Davy's seeking eyes burning into her back.

She didn't turn, knowing that he would be gone if she did. She spoke softly, so she wouldn't startle him. "Come in, Davy. Isn't this a beautiful room? Books are good friends, and there are so many of them in here."

Then she dared look toward him.

225

--- PAGE 224 (PDF page 235) ---
MARCH 1963

Her words had caught him off balance. He stood irresolutely in the doorway. His hair was wind-blown, and an appealing curl drooped over one eyebrow.

He started to back away. She had an almost irrepressible urge to smooth back the stray curl, to touch the thin little cheek. "Please don't go, Davy."

She fought to keep the desperation she felt from seeping through into her voice. Then she noticed that while his wide eyes were orbs of distrust, they were not blank. Elation bubbled inside her. It was the first time he had ever looked at her, knowing that she saw him, and met her with anything but that expressionless stare that so disconcerted her.

"I have something for you, Davy. A book. We're going to have a baby, you know. I thought you might like to read about babies before our baby comes." She had left the book on Dick's desk in the solarium and now regretted not having it with her.

"Will you wait here while I go get it?"

He backed further away, toward a beckoning shadow.

"I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll put it here on this table. When you wish to read it, it'll be here for you. All right?"

He slipped away and was gone like a pin-sized phantom, merging into the silent shadows from which he had come.

Irene sank into a chair and covered her face with her hands. Oh, Davy, she thought, you poor little soul! A child that never laughs, never talks, never sings! I've accepted this awesome responsibility, but it's just not enough. Whatever am I going to do about it?

"Granddad," she asked that day during lunch, "are you sure Davy's hearing is all right?" Davy had slipped away from the table to pursue his private world. "I know he's not completely deaf, but sometimes he never seems to hear a thing I say."

Granddad shook his head. "His hearing's all right. Sometimes he may not want to hear, but he can. If anything, better than average. We checked all those possibilities, Irene."

"I'm sure you did. I just thought perhaps . . ."

Granddad's eyes were narrow. "We all went through the same thing. Searching for a physical cause. I know how it is. It would be easier, of course, to combat . . . in a way. You've been thinking in terms of a hearing aid, or perhaps corrective surgery. Hopes we had, too, a long time ago. Now we know that the only place to base any hope is in Davy. In his recovery from a loss that he was unable to fathom or cope with."

Irene toyed with her sandwich idly. "If I could just reach him. He's so distant. More so with me than anyone."

"Subconsciously, he's trying to reject you. He's afraid of you. I spoke to his doctor about it."

"Afraid of me? Whatever for?"

"He doesn't have much conscious memory of his mother, but it was she who deserted him, to his baby mind. He's afraid to love you lest you desert him, too. That's over-

226