[Vol50 | April | Magazine Page 284 | PDF Page 299]
[Title: Threshing Mother]

--- PAGE 283 (PDF page 298) ---
"MAMA"

and the trunk turned into a pointed spout. I looked back into Mama's face and, sure enough, the lines were crinkling.

"Come along, Sister," Mama said to me.

We stopped to pick up the bucket of milk. I took hold of one side of the handle and helped her carry the milk to the house. The evening breeze caught Mama's cotton skirts, swirling them around her brown, bare legs. The metal handle cut into my hand and I turned loose and rubbed the crease that the handle had left in my palm. Mama held out her firm brown hand to me, and I moved around and took hold of it. It was nice and warm. I held it tightly as we swung happily along to the farmhouse.

Inside the kitchen, Mama poured the clean, white milk into several shallow pans and carried them carefully to the pantry, where she placed them on rough board shelves to cool. The rest of the milk went into the big, silver separator bowl. I took hold of the crank and began to turn it around and around. Mama closed her hand around mine and gave a few quick turns until the machine began to hum in a high-pitched whir.

Mama's eyes were close to the mirror that hung over the washstand. I could see them reflected as I helped her turn the separator handle. Around and around it whirred cheerfully. She let loose the handle and let me keep it going. I liked to watch the lines crinkle around Mama's soft gray eyes when she laughed.

We both turned to watch the bluish skimmed milk pour from the one spout and then a thin stream of yellow cream came from the other

When Mama came back into the kitchen, she busied herself at the old, black coal stove. She lifted the lid of the firebox and poked the burning coals with a long, steel poker, then she picked up the coal bucket and sprinkled the small chunks into the glowing fire.

As Mama opened the oven door of the stove, I could smell the newly baked bread — "Umm-m," I murmured. She tapped the loaves lightly with the tips of her fingers. Seeing that they were done, she gathered the pan up with the corner of her denim apron and carried the loaf pan to the cupboard where she dumped the plump, brown loaves onto a clean dish towel. I watched her take two blue glass bowls from the cupboard and fill them with chunks of steaming bread; she moved to the pantry and brought back a pan of last night's milk and skimmed the thick yellow cream over the broken bread chunks; she sprinkled the bread and cream with lots of sugar, and we sat down at the kitchen table to eat.

"Say the blessing," Mama reminded me as she bowed her head over her folded hands. "God, bless Daddy while he is away — bring him back safely. We thank thee for this food, and for this lovely day. Amen."

After supper was over and the dishes were washed, Mama pulled up the old black rocking chair close to the flickering fire glow and scooped me up into her warm comfortable lap; she held me close. Back and forth we rocked, back and forth.

285

--- PAGE 284 (PDF page 299) ---
APRIL 1963

She put her cheek down against my hair and sang a funny little ditty: "Waltz me around again, Willie, around, around, and around. . . ."

Mama's bed was big and soft and cool in the back bedroom. She gathered me into her arms, wrapping my feet in her huge flannel nightgown and curling her body close to mine under the fluffy patchwork quilts. I touched her hair as it lay spread out on the pillow; it felt crisp and wiry; there were springy waves that looked as if they might have been braided in, but were naturally there. I reached over and touched her smooth face, and she took hold of my hand and kissed each finger separately. We lay silently for awhile, then she reached up and turned off the light that hung from the bedstead. I could see the moonlight shimmering against the window and a few stars, way off, twinkling in the dark sky. A dog howled forlornly somewhere in the night; Mama's arms tightened reassuringly around me. I love you, Mama, I thought sleepily. A whiff of rain-filled air came through the open window I heard the drops begin to fall upon the roof of the farmhouse — pit-a-pat-splat, splat-pit-a-pat. "Goodnight, darling," Mama whispered in my ear. Sleep closed in, peacefully.

Country Auction
Ida Elaine James

A grandmother's treasures of a long-gone year
Are gathered together for the public, here:
Her bureau, marked with homely scars and dents,
(It held unfailingly for me pink peppermints).
A shabby rocker covered with time-worn chintz
Used long ago for twilight lullabying,
Soothing children's hurts and weary crying;
Rugs that she once diligently braided
By lamplight, with their colors long since faded.
Upon this whatnot, treasures stand at rest:
A conch shell with a sea-song in its breast,
Wax flowers under glass, each old knicknack
With its own story-treasured bric-a-brac.
Almost a fragrance rises to convince
The nose of jelly from sturdy kettles, mince
And pumpkin pies; here heavy flatirons tell
Of patient hands and fluted miracle.
Now they wait amid the busy clamor
The final sounding of the auction hammer —
Safe in my heart are locked, where they will stay,
The memories of their golden long-gone day.

286

--- PAGE 285 (PDF page 300) ---
Testament

Christie Lund Coles

He lives! Oh, let me say the words,
As real in me as breath;
He lived, he died, he rose again,
He triumphed over death.

He lives! His promise lifts my heart,
His goodness heals my soul.
Beyond this earthly path, I, too,
Shall rise, serene and whole.

[PHOTOGRAPH: Black and white image of flowering branches, appears to be fruit tree blossoms]

--- PAGE 286 (PDF page 301) ---
Do We Give Too Much?

[ILLUSTRATION: Diamond ring with radiating lines]

Joan H. Haskins

WHEN I was five years old, an imitation diamond ring, costing ten cents, was my most valued possession. My parents bought this ring for me during a vacation trip. I was continuously holding my finger to a window so that when the light from the sun fell on the stone, a multitude of colors emitted from it. I was delighted with my ring and never grew tired of admiring its beauty.

But, one morning in the hurried confusion of packing to leave our hotel room, my precious ring was left lying on the edge of the bathtub. I had placed it there so its brilliance would not be dulled as I bathed. It was not until we had traveled too far from the hotel to return, that my bare finger reminded me of my forgetfulness.

This childish episode was called to my mind one day recently, as I looked through my children's pockets prior to washing their clothes. Each pocket contained two or three rings intermingled with a variety of other gimmicks. Earlier that morning I had found a Popeye ring behind the couch, and an Indian one in the pin dish.

These were not expensive rings—most of them had been cheap prizes, but as I gazed at the bits of tin, I recalled my sparkling diamond and the great joy it had brought to me. I wondered if we weren't doing a wrong to our children by giving them too much.

The wrong lay not only in too many cheap rings, but in all their other material possessions. Cathi, our four-year old daughter, had more dolls than she could stuff into her buggy. The boys could scarcely walk through their room without stepping over quantities of trucks, baseball equipment, and every contrivance Santa's toy shop had ever manufactured.

Our children, with their many toys, had been deprived of one of life's greatest pleasures—the pleasure of anticipation. We had satisfied their every whim. Not one of them had saved for weeks to obtain enough money to buy a toy of his choice. We had, foolishly, rushed out and bought it for him. I determined to change this.

Ralph Waldo Emerson voiced this idea when he stated that one of the most important factors in shaping his life had been want. Wendell Phillips said: "Wants awaken intellect.... The keener the want, the lustier the growth."

I recalled the corncob dolls and the hand-carved whistles that were

288