[Vol50 | July | Magazine Page 551 | PDF Page 571]
[Title: Social Science — Priesthood and Church Government]

--- PAGE 550 (PDF page 570) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness (DHC 1:39).

John the Baptist then instructed them to baptize each other and confer upon each other the Aaronic Priesthood. Thus the Aaronic Priesthood began to function upon the earth again. There was no living mortal who held the keys of this Priesthood, therefore it was necessary to call upon the person who held the keys of the dispensation of the meridian of times to confer this authority on Joseph and Oliver. It is important to note that John the Baptist did for them only that which they could not do for themselves. He gave them the authority, they baptized each other, and then reconferred the Priesthood.

John the Baptist told Joseph and Oliver that the Melchizedek Priesthood would soon be conferred upon them and they were to be the first and second elders, respectively, of the Church.

2. The Line of Authority Established. While the exact date was not recorded, it was only a short time after the Aaronic Priesthood was restored that Peter, James, and John appeared to Joseph and Oliver and conferred upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood with the commission to act in the name of God. This commission is attested to in a revelation given August 1830, when the Lord in reference to his coming said ". . . marvel not, for the hour cometh that I will drink of the fruit of the vine with you on the earth . . ." (D & C 27:5). Then the revelation records the names of many of the great prophets who would be present.

. . . also with Peter, and James, and John, whom I have sent unto you, by whom I have ordained you and confirmed you to be apostles, and special witnesses of my name, and bear the keys of your ministry and of the same things which I revealed unto them; Unto whom I have committed the keys of my kingdom, and a dispensation of the gospel for the last times; and for the fulness of times . . . (D & C 27:12-13).

In this lesson we are not simply recording an historical event. That has been properly done in the records of the Church. We are concerned with the fact that the Priesthood was restored and became the basis for Church government and organization. This is a fact of great importance to each person who becomes a member of this Church.

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was not founded on protests against the purported mistakes of an existing, dominant church. It was founded through direct instruction from Christ himself, who declared that his Church did not then exist on the earth.

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was founded on revelation and continues to operate on this vital principle. The authority to organize and direct the Church is part of the dynamic nature of the Priesthood.

MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD 
UNIFIES LEADERSHIP

The Priesthood is called the Melchizedek Priesthood,

because Melchizedek was such a great high priest. Before his day it was called the Holy Priesthood after the Order of the Son of God. But out of respect or reverence to the name of the Supreme Being, to avoid the too frequent repetition of his name, they, the church, in

553

--- PAGE 551 (PDF page 571) ---
JULY 1963

ancient days, called that priesthood after Melchizedek, or the Melchizedek Priesthood (D & C 107:2-4).

All of the power and authority that God ever delegated to his representatives on this earth is included in the Melchizedek Priesthood. "All other authorities or offices in the church are appendages to this priesthood" (Ibid., verse 5). It is significant to note that the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood was under the direction of Peter, James, and John who held the Melchizedek Priesthood.

1. Aaronic (Levitical) Priesthood an Appendage. From an article on Priesthood prepared by the Prophet Joseph Smith we read:

There are two Priesthoods spoken of in the Scriptures, viz., the Melchisedek and the Aaronic or Levitical. Although there are two Priesthoods, yet the Melchisedek Priesthood comprehends the Aaronic or Levitical Priesthood, and is the grand head, and holds the highest authority which pertains to the Priesthood, and the keys of the Kingdom of God in all ages of the world to the latest posterity on the earth, and is the channel through which all knowledge, doctrine, the plan of salvation, and every important matter is revealed from heaven (DHC IV:207).

Aaron, a brother of Moses and a Levite, with his four sons, were elected first to hold the Lesser Priesthood and to minister in the Priest's office. (WIDTSOE: Priesthood and Church Government, Aaron, page 15.) Later the Lord chose all the tribe of Levi to hold the Lesser Priesthood and to be the acting Priesthood in Israel. "And I, behold, I have taken the Levites from among the children of Israel instead of all the firstborn . . . of Israel . . ." (Numbers 3:12).

PRIESTHOOD A SACRED CALLING

We should not lose sight of the fact that every office and calling in the Priesthood, both Aaronic and Melchizedek, is sacred and important to the work of the Lord. President Joseph F. Smith makes the following statement:

I believe it to be the duty of the Church to recognize and acknowledge every man who holds an official position in it, in his sphere and in his calling. I hold to the doctrine that the duty of a teacher is as sacred as the duty of an apostle, in the sphere in which he is called to act, and that every member of the Church is as much in duty bound to honor the teacher who visits him in his home, as he is to honor the office and counsel of the presiding quorum of the Church. They all have the Priesthood; they are all acting in their callings, and they are all essential in their places, because the Lord has appointed them and set them in his Church. We cannot ignore them; or, if we do, the sin will be upon our heads (Gospel Doctrine 1949 Edition, pp. 163-164).

The distinction, such as it is, between the Aaronic and Levitical Priesthood is shown in the following excerpt:

Levites Held Aaronic Priesthood. The Aaronic Priesthood is divided into the Aaronic and the Levitical, yet it is but one priesthood. This is merely a matter of designating certain duties within the priesthood. The sons of Aaron, who presided in the Aaronic order, were spoken of as holding the Aaronic Priesthood; and the sons of Levi, who were not sons of Aaron, were spoken of as the Levites. They held the Aaronic Priesthood but served under, or in a lesser capacity, than the sons of Aaron. (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. III, page 86. See also pages 112-115 for "Levitical and Aaronic Duties Anciently.")

DIVISIONS OF THE PRIESTHOOD

It has been pointed out that there are two divisions of the Priesthood,

554

--- PAGE 552 (PDF page 572) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

Aaronic and Melchizedek. We should be aware of the fact that it is incorrect to refer to the Priesthood of a deacon or elder. These titles, deacon, priest, elder, etc., refer to the office and calling of an individual in the Priesthood.

1. Recognized Offices in the Divisions. The offices in the Aaronic Priesthood are: deacon, teacher, priest, and bishop who is a literal descendant of Aaron. (At the present time there are no bishops who are literal descendants of Aaron.) The bishop is the president and presides over the Aaronic Priesthood on the ward level, but his office, to which he has been appointed as a high priest by the First Presidency, cannot be rightfully referred to as an office in the Aaronic Priesthood, unless he should hold that office as a literal descendant of Aaron. The revelation from the Lord explains specifically the manner in which a high priest of the Melchizedek Priesthood may be called to officiate in the office of a bishop.

No man has a legal right to this office, to hold the keys of this priesthood, except he be a literal descendant of Aaron. But as a high priest of the Melchizedek Priesthood has authority to officiate in all the lesser offices, he may officiate in the office of bishop when no literal descendant of Aaron can be found, provided he is called and set apart and ordained unto this power by the hands of the Presidency of the Melchizedek Priesthood (D & C 107:16-17).

"And a literal descendant of Aaron, also, must be designated by this Presidency [First Presidency] and found worthy, and anointed, and ordained under the hands of this Presidency, otherwise they are not legally authorized to officiate in their priesthood" (D & C 68:20; see also Section 107:68-70,76.)

The offices in the Melchizedek Priesthood are President or Presidency of the High Priesthood (First Presidency, D & C 107:9, 79), apostle, patriarch, high priest, seventy, and elder.

2. Right to Function in Church Government. The fact that one has been ordained a deacon, elder, or high priest does not authorize him to function in the government or ordinance work of the Church. The ordination gives him the power to act, but the proper authority must designate the area of action, and commission him to perform. For example, there are many high priests in a ward but only one, designated by the First Presidency and commissioned by their representative, can be the bishop of the ward at one time. By call from the bishop each high priest can be given an assignment in the ward organization. In like manner the bishop may call deacons, teachers, priests, elders, or seventies to carry out the duties and functions of the Church government in the ward.

PRIESTHOOD CALLING A DISTINCTION

To receive an office or calling in the Priesthood is an honor, a blessing, an opportunity, and a responsibility. When the true value of such a calling is realized and appreciated by the receiver, he will recognize that he has received the greatest mark of distinction available to man. In relation to understanding this value and learning to honor this privilege, the family has the major opportunity to make sure that all

555

--- PAGE 553 (PDF page 573) ---
JULY 1963

of its members understand the value of the Priesthood and how to honor it. The influence of the wife and mother cannot be over emphasized. She must have a knowledge and appreciation of the Priesthood if she is to help her family members understand and honor the Priesthood. One of the purposes of the present course is to help Relief Society members gain this knowledge and appreciation. Like so many other vital lessons, the value and significance of the Priesthood must be developed in the family situation. The fundamental impressions of the good life come to the child in the home environment from the most important people in their lives, their loved ones.

PREPARATION FOR PRIESTHOOD RESPONSIBILITY

Sometimes parents become concerned about the age of their sons and express this concern to the bishop as follows: "My son is twelve years old. He is old enough to be a deacon," or it may be that he is twenty and old enough to be an elder. The concern is mainly about age. Parents should really be concerned about his knowledge of the gospel, his understanding of life's great values and his readiness to assume the responsibilities of the Priesthood. A thoughtful, well-informed mother will find ways to help prepare her sons to receive this great blessing worthily and intelligently. She will show by her conduct that she honors the Priesthood and will make sure that her planning makes it easy and natural for the members of her family to honor it. If both parents were truly interested

556

in their son's preparation for Priesthood responsibility there would be fewer members of the Aaronic Priesthood over twenty-one and more active Melchizedek Priesthood holders in the Church today.

When the Prophet Joseph Smith called the women together, March 17, 1842, to organize the Relief Society and said, "I will organize the sisters under the priesthood after a pattern of the priesthood," he was thinking of far greater things than the relief from physical want or mental anguish. The "pattern of the priesthood" had a more significant and distinctive meaning. The objectives for the Relief Society were the same objectives set up for Priesthood Quorums. (See The Relief Society Magazine, January 1962, page 66.) Therefore, their purpose and interests must be the same. Inasmuch as the proper function of the Priesthood is essential to the accomplishment of the purpose and objective referred to above, the knowledge of the Priesthood and a dedication to its proper function is an equal responsibility and opportunity for the man and woman in each family unit in the Church.

Thoughts for Discussion

1. What essential event had to take place before the Church could be organized? Why?
2. Why was it necessary for Peter, James, and John to come in person to restore the Melchizedek Priesthood?
3. In what way was the Prophet Joseph Smith subjected to the temptations of Lucifer?
4. Why did not John the Baptist baptize Joseph and Oliver?
5. What should be the determining factors in bestowing any office of the Priesthood upon an individual?