[Vol50 | November | Magazine Page 801 | PDF Page 836]
[Title: Gratitude — Frontispiece]

--- PAGE 800 (PDF page 835) ---
From Near and Far

I have just finished reading "And They Shall Also Teach Their Children," by Elder A. Theodore Tuttle, in the July issue of the Magazine. What a wonderful guide for us parents in the upbringing of our families. As a convert and a mother of fast-growing children, I really appreciate Elder Tuttle's remarks and the wonderful Magazine that brings this message to us.
—Joye P. Muir
Frankton, New Zealand

Since joining the Church my husband and I have had more spiritual blessings than it is possible to tell. I have received the July and August issues of The Relief Society Magazine and have received a great deal of food for thought from the many inspirational articles. I was especially impressed by the article "Part of the Fragrance," by Ann G. Hansen, and the visiting teacher message, by Christine H. Robinson, both in the August issue. These two articles made me re-evaluate myself and recall the great number of good intentions, and the equally great number of forgotten good intentions. I have promised myself to stop whatever else I am doing and when I get a good intention to carry it through. I have already kept this promise and have earned more for myself than the ones I tried to please.
—Mrs. Marilyn Domroe
Glendale, California

Each issue of the Magazine is a treasure — but when you add all twelve and have them bound together, then you really have a whole volume of beauty and inspiration. The ward Relief Societies in our stake are surely using the many wonderful recipes for their work-meeting luncheons and on other occasions when they want something especially nice to serve.
—Ruth H. Millet
President
Rigby Stake Relief Society
Rigby, Idaho

I am a bride of but a few months, and one of our wedding gifts was a year's subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. I enjoy and read many times each issue. Every page gives me wonderful ideas on how to make my marriage an eternal success.
—Mrs. Ellen D. Seedall
Idaho Falls, Idaho

I like the changes made recently in the Magazine. The introduction of color makes it more attractive, and also I like the smaller size. It fits into my purse better. I am amazed and very proud of the talent of so many of our women.
—Myrene R. Brewer
Ogden, Utah

I wish to thank you very much on behalf of my wife for sending The Relief Society Magazine, which we receive with thanks.
—Wm. T. Moore
Richmond B.C.
Canada

As usual, I have greatly enjoyed the Magazine during my stay in American Samoa. Recently, when it was necessary for me to go to the hospital in Pago Pago for treatment, I took some Magazines with me. They were the means of my becoming acquainted with the fine supervisor of nursing, an American Catholic from London, England. She was attracted by the beautiful cover, and after she had glanced through the Magazine, she said, "That is the loveliest Magazine I have ever read." Then, after further reading, she said, "No wonder your young people grow up to be so fine." Since then she has attended our Church services, and we have had many fine gospel conversations.
—Arlene L. Anderson
Mapusaga
American Samoa

802

--- PAGE 801 (PDF page 836) ---
The Relief Society Magazine

NOVEMBER 1963 VOLUME 50 NUMBER 11

Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Special Features
804 In Memoriam – President Henry Dinwoodey Moyle
807 The Divinity Within Relief Society Belle S. Spafford
813 "He Shall Prepare a Way" Marianne C. Sharp
815 Relief Society to Save Souls Louise W. Madsen
817 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford
824 Relief Society Supports the Priesthood Home Teaching Program
828 What Mormonism Means to Me Lorinda Tortice

Fiction
840 Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 5 Rosa Lee Lloyd

General Features
802 From Near and Far
826 Editorial: We Thank Thee Marianne C. Sharp
828 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon
846 Notes From the Field Hulda Parker
880 Birthday Congratulations

The Home - Inside and Out
830 Saturday Chores Dora Black
831 Stretching the Food Budget Part III — Peanut Butter Marion Bennion and
    Sadie O. Morris
833 Christmas Tot Thoughts Shirley Thulin
839 Crochet Designs — Various and Beautiful

Lessons for February
853 Theology — The Bishopric; Parenthood Roy W. Doxey
858 Visiting Teacher Message — "And They Shall Also Teach Their Children to Pray..."
    Christine H. Robinson
860 Work Meeting — Planning Exterior Upkeep of the Home Virginia F. Cutler
862 Literature — Robert Frost, Modern New England Classic Brian S. Jacobs
868 Social Science — Quorum Relationships to Wards and Stakes Ariel S. Ballif

Poetry
801 Gratitude — Frontispiece Christie Lund Coles

A Missionary Says "Goodbye," by Margory E. Green, 812; Song for November, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 825; Churning Day, by Maude Rubin, 829; Tuning In, by Ida Elaine James, 878; Indian Summer, by Caroline Eyring Miner, 878; At Thanksgiving, by Mildred B. Hall, 878.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 by the Relief Society General Board. Association and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah. Phone: EMpire 4-7511. Subscriptions 2642. Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year, foreign, $2.00 a year, 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

--- PAGE 802 (PDF page 837) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

President Henry

--- PAGE 803 (PDF page 838) ---
IN MEMORIAM

It was with a sense of deep loss that the General Board of Relief Society learned of the peaceful but sudden passing of President Henry Dinwoodey Moyle, First Counselor in the First Presidency, on Wednesday, September 18, 1963. President Moyle was in Deer Park, Florida on Church business at the time of his death. His devoted wife who has faithfully and fully supported him throughout his long and distinguished career was in Deer Park with him.

President Moyle's life has been active and purposeful. He utilized all the advantages offered him as a young man to attain an education and studied in the United States and in Germany in the fields of mining engineering, geology, and law. He served for twenty-five years as a member of the University of Utah law faculty. He lived what he advocated. He took out three years of his youth to fill a mission in Germany. The German people always held a special place in his heart. He was eminently successful in a variety of businesses and open-handed with the means which he acquired. He was extremely generous to Relief Society when the Relief Society Building was being planned, but stipulated that his and his wife's large contribution should not be publicized. He took an interest in the welfare of others and was a driving power in any cause he espoused.

Dinwoodey Moyle (1889-1963)

805