[Vol50 | September | Magazine Page 705 | PDF Page 732]
[Title: Work Meeting — Planning the Conservation of Family Resources]

--- PAGE 704 (PDF page 731) ---
SEPTEMBER 1963

forget their long-time goals and mortgage their future in order to have the latest chromium-trimmed model. Others may see values and goals more important for family living. It is they who, in the long run, will be more likely to come through successfully. This does not mean that useful appliances are not desirable. Indeed, they are designed to reduce time and effort required for many of the routine tasks and can be a boon to better living. The point is that families should meet life on their own terms and realize that some goals are more important than others, and the entire budget cannot be used for one item.

Careful planning and wise buying will keep a family from getting into extravagant and wasteful habits and help them to achieve some balance in living as well as in their budget. It is not wisdom to trade in any furnishings or equipment that are still in good condition each time a new model appears on the market.

As the children grow, the family that learns to work and plan together may decide, as one family did, that a piano was more important than a dishwasher or a new rug. After buying the piano, they planned a rug project. They searched out some cast-off woolens, washed them, and braided a rug. Each child and the parents had a part in deciding on the colors to use, and in six months they had a finished rug. The piano was a wise investment because of all the family activity that it motivated.

Some families have fun searching in attics, in used furniture stores, or in the newspaper ads for genuinely good old pieces of furniture

which, with imagination, can be refinished and made into lovely furniture that may even become heirlooms.

Regular care of your purchases will extend their life. "Doesn't she know that every time she lets the pot boil over, she is burning out the coil?" asked an equipment dealer who was kept busy replacing coils in a homemaker's electric range. Another dealer said, "I can't understand how anyone could be so foolish as to spend a large sum of money on a washing machine and never read the instruction book. Well, I shouldn't complain, for this is where I make most of my profit, from other people's carelessness." The family that plans for each purchase and saves for it is more likely to appreciate it and care for it than the impulsive buyer.

Every appliance manufacturer includes a booklet of instructions with every model of his product. It is required that these remain with the appliance and become the property of the purchaser. One manufacturer, knowing that most women are prone to overlook or disregard instruction booklets, caused to be printed in large red letters on the front of the instruction booklet a rather facetious statement, If all else fails, read the instructions. One of the most important ways of taking care of a piece of equipment is to be thoroughly familiar with its proper operation. Recommendations for placement in the home, care of moving parts, protection of the finish, and other "do's and don'ts" are always made.

No one needs to suffer cracked porcelain on her stove if she has

706

--- PAGE 705 (PDF page 732) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

read the manufacturer's instruction to let the appliance cool before cleaning it. No washing machine motor needs to burn itself out from being overloaded if the owner has taken time to ascertain the weight limits of a recommended load. No refrigerator needs to grow old before its time if defrosting rules are followed, if, for instance, its innards have not been poked with a sharp instrument in an effort to aid defrosting.

Many of the commonly used appliances represent a fairly large investment of money. They have been engineered to last and give service for many years. Manufacturers, as well as the companies from whom they buy the materials that go into appliances, do a great deal of research and testing. They know under what conditions their product performs most satisfactorily. Housewives would do well to follow their instructions.

"Clean up after yourself" is a valuable lesson for each family member to learn. After using the washer, it should be cleaned thoroughly and made ready for the next use. After the range is cold,

it should be put in condition for cooking the next meal. The homemaker who never cleans the burners and drip pans, who never cleans the oven, who seldom gives the refrigerator a going over, who runs the vacuum without emptying the bag, will not get the full value from her investment. Dirty equipment never operates efficiently, will soon be out of commission, and require service and replacements.

One can become quite attached to pieces of equipment that are well cared for. An old iron frying pan that has been in the family for three generations still does an excellent job. It was seasoned before its first use and has been used ever since. Even the old treadle sewing machine that sewed the petticoats and dresses and coats and quilt blocks for half a century is looked upon with veneration. A cow was sold to buy that machine, and it has earned a place in the household that no new article can fill. Extravagant and wasteful practices in buying and using equipment can be eliminated through careful planning, wise buying, and regular care.

Shut Out

Eva Willes Wangsgaard

I looked into a wide blue sky
Until a jet went streaking by
And pull-d a zipper like a purse
That shut me from the universe.

707

--- PAGE 706 (PDF page 733) ---
LITERATURE • America's Literature

The Last Hundred Years

Lesson 43 — The Quickening Spirit of Emily Dickinson (1830-1886)

Elder Briant S. Jacobs

(Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 609-616)

For Third Meeting, December 1963

Objective: To introduce ourselves to Emily Dickinson's mind and heart, first by entering her home, then her poetry.

TODAY'S superlative adjectives are so overused that even "super-colossal" seems unimpressive to many who hear it so often. Thus well aware of the dangers of bestowing exaggerated praise, we are nonetheless justified in calling Emily Dickinson great. Today no one questions her place in the top ranking of American writers. Among American poets only Walt Whitman and T. S. Eliot approach her stature, while among women writing in English she has no rivals. Were one to ask the names of women poets worldwide, through time, who deserve comparison with her, such names come dear. Since World War II, with the first publication of completely reliable editions of her poems and letters, the full scope and depth of her greatness gradually emerge, nor is an ending to such high critical and popular praise in sight. Now, above rumor, prejudice, over-emphasized eccentricities, and bumblings of editors both friendly and indifferent, she comes into her own. How fortunate we are, that

the criticism and research of recent decades have made possible a larger access to her than before.

A SUDDEN CREATIVE SURGE

During her school days Emily carried the reputation of being a wit, a maker of jokes and pranks, the same relationship she kept alive among her family until long after all the children became adults. During her twenties she wrote less than sixty poems. In 1859, her twenty-ninth year, she wrote almost one hundred, and about seventy during 1860. Then in 1861-62 came her magnificent deluge: over 450 poems, most of them written in 1862. Why this sudden torrent which did not end abruptly? What turmoils arose within her which must have release? Was her new spurt of creativity centered entirely in poetry? Did poetry yield her pleasure or pain? How much did she share with close friends and relatives, how much keep secret? The enticing list grows long.

In the April 1862 issue of the

708

--- PAGE 707 (PDF page 734) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

Atlantic Monthly, the Reverend Thomas Wentworth Higginson, friend to young authors and prominent literary critic, had written an article in which he had invited any aspiring writer, who felt the need, to ask for his help. Almost consumed with the need to ask some competent person to evaluate her recent creations, Emily initiated what was to become one of her lifelong friendships. Her initial letter to him was as unique as the four poems she enclosed for his evaluation. Typically, the letter was unsigned, though she enclosed within it a smaller envelope—a card bearing her name. Imagine Mr. Higginson's astonishment after unfolding and reading the following memorable sheet:

15 April, 1862
Mr. Higginson,

Are you too deeply occupied to say if my Verse is alive?
The Mind is so near itself—it cannot, distinctly—and I have none to ask—
Should you think it breathed—and had you the leisure to tell me, I should feel quick gratitude—
If I make the mistake—that you dared to tell me—would give me sincerer honor—toward you—
I enclose my name—asking you, if you please—Sir—to tell me what is true?
That you will not betray me—it is needless to ask—since Honor is its own pawn—(Johnson, Thomas: The Letters of Emily Dickinson, Harvard University Press, 1958, No. 206, page 403. Reprinted by permission of the publishers).

YEARS OF TERROR

It was during 1862, when she was thirty-one, that Emily Dickinson entered into the year of "a terror since September I could tell to none." What this terror was cannot be determined with full certainty, but events in her life and allusions in her poems do seem to offer a high correlation. At the same time it should be recalled that, merely because the creating poet makes the personal reference which all artists freely do, such "poetic" adventures do not therefore become fact.

Some of her poems, however, seemingly refer to her own life in terms too strong and direct to ignore. For example, poem 1732*, written at some unknown time in her life, but published in 1896, begins,

My life closed twice before its close—
It yet remains to see
If Immortality unveil
A third event to me

So huge, so hopeless to conceive
As these that twice befell.
Parting is all we know of heaven,
And all we need of hell

(Johnson, Thomas, The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson, Boston, Little, Brown and Co., 1960, page 702).

Such disastrous partings could refer to the deaths of her father, who in many ways dominated her life at home, and her nephew, Gilbert Dickinson. But also she could have "died" with her intellectual mentor and awakener, young law-clerk, Ben Newton, who had died in 1853 after introducing her to Emerson and other "liberating" authors. Or it could refer to the love affair she cre-

*Numbers preceding the poems are those given by Thomas H. Johnson in his definitive three-volume collection, The Poems of Emily Dickinson, 1955. Miss Dickinson titled only twenty-three of her poems; all other titles have been added by editors. The punctuation above, in contrast to the benevolent guesses shown throughout our text, is exactly as she wrote it.

709