[Vol50 | September | Magazine Page 698 | PDF Page 725]
[Title: Theology]

--- PAGE 697 (PDF page 724) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

be made straight and the roads to course of fulfillment.
be made level. The companion with Paul the apostle foresaw the time
this revelation seems clear. The when all things would be gathered
Lord's messengers have been sent in together in one in the last dispensa-
this dispensation to make prepara- tion — the fulness of times. (Eph.
tions for his second coming. Loyal 1:9, 10.) The gospel would be re-
subjects of his kingdom will make stored by an angel to usher in that
necessary preparations to receive dispensation as a part of the restora-
their king. "When we comply with tion of what the prophets saw. (Rev.
His commandments and prepare for 14:6, 7.)
His advent, our prayers are accept- The keys of the kingdom of God
able to Him" (Doctrine and Cove- were a necessary part of the restora-
nants Commentary, page 398). tion of all things. Without the
authority of the Priesthood to ad-
"THE KEYS OF THE KINGDOM" minister the laws and ordinances of
The Lord reminded Joseph Smith the gospel, there would be no valid-
that the keys of the kingdom of ity to the plan of salvation. (John
God had been given to man upon 15:16; Heb. 5:4.) The necessary
the earth. (D & C 65:2.) Apostles keys (power to direct the work of
of the meridian dispensation fore- the kingdom) had been given to
saw the time when the gospel would Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery
be restored to the earth following a by John the Baptist (D & C Sec-
long period of apostasy from the tion 13; Mal. 3:1-3), and by Peter,
true principles and ordinances of James, and John. (D & C 27:12-
the gospel, as given by the Savior 13.) In the last scripture, notice
and continued by his apostles. Peter the reference to the committing of
describes that time as a period of the keys of the dispensation in which
"refreshing" from "the presence of the Lord would gather together in
the Lord," which would result be- one all things as prophesied.
cause of a "restitution of all things, Later on in the dispensation still
which God hath spoken by the additional authority was to be re-
mouth of all his holy prophets since stored that specific activities of the
the world began" (Acts 3:19-21). dispensation might be carried out.
This prophecy is significant because Elijah was to come, as foreknown.
it reminds one of the numerous (Mal. 4:5, 6; D & C 2; 110:13-16.)
words of the prophets concerning Moses and Elias were also to be sent
our times — the coming forth of The that functions necessary for our
Book of Mormon (Isa. 29; Ezek. times might be accomplished. (Ibid.,
37:15-28); the gathering of Israel. 110:11-12.) Still others would bring
(Jer. 3:14-18; 31:31-33; Isa. 11:10- their authorities, rights, powers, and
12); the building of a house of the glories to bless those who want the
Lord in the mountains (Isa. 2:2-3); riches of eternity. (Ibid., 128:21.)
the building of a temple to which
the Lord would come suddenly THE PROPHESIED KINGDOM
(Mal. 3:1); and other prophecies One of the remarkable prophecies
that have been fulfilled or are in the of the Old Testament relative to the

699

--- PAGE 698 (PDF page 725) ---
SEPTEMBER 1963

setting up of the kingdom of God in the last days is found in Daniel, chapter 2. The expression in verse 45, "the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands" is also found in verse 2 of Section 65, which reads as follows:

The keys of the kingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth, and from thence shall the gospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone which is cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth, until it has filled the whole earth.

An interesting statement from the Prophet's remarks concerning this prophecy in the book of Daniel was made not long before he was martyred:

... The ancient prophets declared that in the last days the God of heaven should set up a kingdom which should never be destroyed, nor left to other people; and the very time that was calculated on, this people were struggling to bring it out. ...

I calculate to be one of the instruments of setting up the kingdom of Daniel by the word of the Lord, and I intend to lay a foundation that will revolutionize the whole world. I once offered my life to the Missouri mob as a sacrifice for my people, and here I am. It will not be by sword or gun that this kingdom will roll on: the power of truth is such that all nations will be under the necessity of obeying the Gospel ... (DHC VI: 364-365).

THE GOSPEL, A LEAVEN

Asael Smith, the grandfather of Joseph Smith, was inspired to say: "it has been borne in upon my soul that one of my descendants will promulgate a work to revolutionize the world of religious faith" (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Essentials in Church History, page 29). The influence of the restoration of the

gospel and its promulgation throughout the world has been very great, and the future will see a greater influence upon the people of the world. Some of our leaders have pointed out the leavening effect of the true gospel in the world. Men's ideas of religious concepts have undergone some changes since the spring of 1820.

There may be, and probably are, other reasons for changes in the minds of men on religious principles, but if their ideas become more congenial to the fulness of the gospel then contention on these points will lessen. Before the Church was organized, and in reference to the bringing forth of The Book of Mormon, the Lord revealed that it was his purpose to decrease contention by this means, (D & C 10:61-62.) Certainly, the leavening influence of the restored gospel was not felt immediately. It takes a long time for change to come. The last sentence of the Prophet's remark quoted above suggests that the day will come when the power of truth will bring the nations to obey the gospel. That day, however, will not be in the time of wickedness (Ibid., 1:11-16), but nonetheless, it is prophesied that the time will come, and it will probably be the millennium, when "every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world" (Ibid., 1:19-20).

DANIEL'S PROPHECY

Many of our leaders have referred to Daniel, chapter 2, especially verse 44, which sets forth the application of King Nebuchadnezzar's dream, as interpreted by Daniel

700

--- PAGE 699 (PDF page 726) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

the Hebrew prophet, but it is probably Brother B. H. Roberts in the Introduction to Volume I of the History of the Church (Documentary History) by Joseph Smith, who has given us the fullest account.

Briefly, the dream of the king as interpreted by Daniel (Dan. 2:37-45) indicated that Nebuchadnezzar's kingdom, Babylonia, was the first world power (the 6th and 5th centuries B.C.) mentioned, to be replaced by the Medo-Persian empire (from 538 B.C. to about 330 B.C.), followed by the Greco-Macedonian kingdom (from about 330 B.C. to 160 B.C.), with the Roman empire immediately following and ending in the fifth century A.D. (If you read Brother Roberts' explanation, keep in mind that he quotes a Protestant writer who believed that the kingdom of God mentioned in verse 44 was set up in the days of Christ. Brother Roberts shows very clearly that such an interpretation is incorrect, one reason being that the kingdom of God would be established in the days of the fifth phase of the dream, at the time of the breaking up of the Roman empire into many small nations or kingdoms, and not during the Roman period when Jesus ministered. (DHC I:XXXIV-XL.) Each one of the foregoing kingdoms was symbolized by a part of the great image; the golden head — Babylonia; the silver breast and arms — Medes and Persians; the brazen belly and thighs — the Greco-Macedonian kingdom; the legs of iron — Roman empire; and the feet of iron and clay which eventually were broken to be replaced by the kingdom of God.

Elder Roberts points out that the kingdom of God would be a material kingdom as other kingdoms on earth and not a spiritual kingdom of Christ only, and that it would be organized in the last days.

THE FULFILLMENT

The prophesied kingdom of God represented as a stone cut out of the mountain without hands was formally organized on April 6, 1830, and is known as The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. That Church has as its head the Savior with the President of the Church as his representative to guide and direct its destiny by revelation. As the Church of Jesus Christ in his day was composed of officers and organizations, so, by the restoration of the gospel and the Church as prophesied, the Church today performs its many purposes through a tangible organization. (Lessons 13 and 14, Relief Society Magazine, November and December 1958, respectively.)

A PURPOSE OF THE CHURCH

In the beginning of this dispensation, the Lord revealed that due to the apostate condition of the world he had established his organization upon the earth that man might have the means of salvation. This restoration was to prepare those who would accept his Church for the glorious coming of the Savior. The world would also, by the preaching of the gospel, have an opportunity to know of the Lord's intentions for man if he did not repent. (D & C 1). Section 65 carries this same message of preparation for the second coming of

701

--- PAGE 700 (PDF page 727) ---
SEPTEMBER 1963

Christ. (Read verses 3 and 4.)
It is worthy of note that this and other admonitions emphasize the charge given to the kingdom of God to make known its principles and ordinances through missionary work. The first commission given to the Church was to preach the gospel. In the days of renewed emphasis upon "every member a missionary," it is well to remind ourselves of this primary responsibility of the citizens of the kingdom.

THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN

Call upon the Lord, that his kingdom may go forth upon the earth, that the inhabitants thereof may receive it, and be prepared for the days to come, in the which the Son of Man shall come down in heaven, clothed in the brightness of his glory, to meet the kingdom of God which is set up on the earth (D & C 65:5).

The Lord commanded his disciples to pray for the coming of that kingdom. (Matt. 6:9-13.) This counsel reminds one that by prayer the disciple is kept in remembrance of the need to further the purposes of the kingdom, as indicated above. The kingdom of God set up on the earth will be prepared to meet the Savior as it discharges its purposes for the salvation of the living and the dead. The faithful citizens of his kingdom will perform the functions of true followers of the Master by demonstrating their love in keeping the commandments of their King. (John 14:15.)

Wherefore, may the kingdom of God go forth, that the kingdom of heaven may come, that thou, O God, mayest be glorified in heaven so on earth, that thine enemies may be subdued; for thine is the honor, power and glory, forever and ever. Amen (D & C 65:6).

Elder James E. Talmage wrote that the expressions "kingdom of God" and "kingdom of heaven" are frequently used interchangeably. In the latter-day scriptures, particularly the one above, there is a distinctive meaning. "The kingdom of God is the Church of Christ; the kingdom of heaven is that system of government and administration which is operative in heaven, and which we pray may some day prevail on earth. The kingdom of heaven will be established when the King shall come, as come He shall, in power and might and glory, to take dominion in and over part of throughout the earth. The kingdom of heaven shall come, and then shall justice rule in the earth" (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Conference Report, April 1917, pp. 65-66; see also Articles of Faith, pp. 365-368).

IT SHALL STAND FOREVER

Probably the most quoted part of Daniel's prophecy is verse 44:

And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand for ever.

The Prophet Joseph Smith said of the Lord's work:

No unhallowed hand can stop the work of God from progressing. Persecution may rage, mobs may combine, armies may assemble, calumny may defame, but the truth of God will go forth boldly, nobly and independently, until it has penetrated every continent and visited every clime, swept over every country and sounded in every ear, till the purposes of God shall be accomplished and the great Jehovah shall say the work is done (Scrapbook of Mormon Literature 2:18-19).

702