[Vol50 | July | Magazine Page 490 | PDF Page 510]
[Title: He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, Part II — President John Taylor]

--- PAGE 489 (PDF page 509) ---
HE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH

power and influence, and through which salvation can extend to all peoples, all nations, all kindreds, all tongues, and all worlds. It is the principle that brings life and immortality to light, and places us in communication with God. God selected him for that purpose, and he fulfilled his mission and he lived honorably and died honorably. I know of what I speak, for I was very well acquainted with him, and was with him a great deal during his life, and was with him when he died (Journal of Discourses 21:94).

"Who was Joseph Smith? . . . God chose this young man. He was ignorant of letters as the world has it, but the most profoundly learned and intelligent man that I ever met in my life, and I have traveled hundreds of thousands of miles, been on different continents and mingled among all classes and creeds of people, yet I have never met a man so intelligent as he was. Where did he get his intelligence from? Not from books, not from the logic or science or philosophy of the day, but he obtained it through the revelation of God, made known to him through the medium of the everlasting gospel (Ibid., 21:63).

"I testify that I was acquainted with Joseph Smith for years; I have traveled with him; I have been with him in private and in public; I have associated with him in councils of all kinds; I have listened hundreds of times to his public teachings, and his advice to his friends and associates of a more private nature. I have been at his house and seen his deportment in his family. I have seen him arraigned before the tribunals of his country, and have seen him honorably acquitted and delivered from the pernicious breath of slander, and the machinations and falsehoods of wicked and corrupt men. I was with him living, and when he died, when he was murdered in Carthage jail by a ruthless mob . . . with their faces painted. . . . I have seen him then under these various circumstances, and I testify before God, angels and men that he was a good, honorable, virtuous man, that his doctrines were good, spiritual and wholesome, that his precepts were such as became a man of God, that his private and public character was unimpeachable, that he lived and died a man of God and a gentleman. This is my testimony (Public Discussion, 1850).

"Many a time have I listened to the voice of our beloved prophet, while in council, his eyes sparkling with animation, and his soul fired with the inspiration of the living God. It was a theme that caused the bosoms of all who were privileged to listen, to thrill with delight. Intimately connected with this were themes upon which prophets, patriarchs, priests and kings dwelt with pleasure and delight. My spirit glows with sacred fire while I reflect upon these scenes and I say, 'O Lord, hasten the day! Let Zion be established! Let the mountain of the Lord's house be established in the tops of the mountains! Let deliverance be proclaimed unto Zion! Let redemption echo from mountain to mountain, from hill to hill, from nation to nation! Let the world hear! Let the law go forth from Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem'" (MS., 9:97).

491

--- PAGE 490 (PDF page 510) ---
[ILLUSTRATION - Woman in profile looking out at tropical landscape with palm trees and mountains]

KISS of the WIND

Rosa Lee Lloyd

CHAPTER 1

LUANA was fully awake before the alarm clock broke the lullaby quiet of the early dawn.

She did not turn off the alarm. Everyone had better hear it and awaken, she thought, because today was not only Lei Day, a red-letter day in the Hawaiian Islands, but it was a special day for the Harrington family.

Emma Lu, their twenty-one-year-old daughter, was coming home from San Francisco, where she had been graduated as a nurse. They were all going to Honolulu to meet her. Lei Day would make everything even more enchanting, Luana thought, as she swung her feet to the floor and ran to the window.

Luana did not look forty-three years old; she was slender, strong, and vital as though charged with the liquid sunshine of the Isle of Maui which had been her home for the last twenty-two years. She loved

492

--- PAGE 491 (PDF page 511) ---
KISS OF THE WIND

this pineapple plantation where she lived with her husband, Ben Harrington, their five children, and Ben's elderly mother whom they lovingly called Tutuwahine-Tutu (grandmother).

Now, as she stood at her bedroom window, her eyes caressed the shimmering blue-green water of the lagoon that swished the shore below their large white frame house. This was her very own glimpse of paradise. She had painted many pictures of this lagoon, but not until this spring had she created one that she considered good enough to send to the Andrus McDougal Contest for Hawaiian Art. Now it was stored in Tutu's closet, ready for mailing as soon as the contest opened next week. But this was her secret. No one else knew of it except Tutu, who kept her secret as if it were her own.

Luana was not a pretty woman, her nose was prominent, her cheekbones too high, her mouth too wide, and her dark eyes fiercely determined. But her skin was velvet smooth, even though bronzed by Hawaiian sun.

No woman on the island did more for the sick, the tired, and the heartbroken than Luana Harrington. She was a member of the branch choir, a visiting teacher in her own neighborhood, and she taught a class to junior art students in the Civic Center. Luana's life was a symphony of completeness: husband, children, love, home, Church, and civic activities. What more could any woman in her whole lifetime ask for?

Yet dreams and yearning were in her eyes if you looked deeply. But she was practical as well as artistic, and dreams to her were a springboard to action. She had worked unceasingly to make her dream come true. Now it was ready for the contest when the time came.

Quickly she turned from the window and reached in the closet for a muumuu.

"Hi, sleepyhead!" she called to her husband, who had not heard the alarm clock. Ben could sleep through the loudest clatter. He had had to do that in the war, he told her.

LUANA sat on the side of the bed and ruffled her fingers through his dark hair, still thick at the sides, but thinning on top. He was big and homely and terribly exacting at times, but she loved him devotedly. He was worthy of her love and trust. Ben, whose parents had come to Hawaii from the Mainland, had been born in this house on the Island of Maui. Luana had met him in San Francisco at a pineapple company convention in 1940. Love had come quickly to them, and love was still with them, deep and warm, after twenty-two years of married life. She loved every moment of their tender companionship, their joy in their children, their years of hard work together. Rearing five children on a pineapple plantation, with all the financial hazards that were involved, had not been easy. Ben had enlisted with the Marines after the Pearl Harbor attack, but with Tutu's wisdom and experience and Luana's brave young strength, they had been able to continue to work the plantation.

Emma Lu had been born while

493

--- PAGE 492 (PDF page 512) ---
JULY 1963

Ben was on Guadalcanal. He had not seen her until she was two years old. Now there were five children, Luana thought proudly: Emma Lu, then Philip, eighteen, and ready for college; chubby, good-natured sixteen-year-old Pixie; and their rollicking, red-headed twin boys, Benjy and Bowman, nicknamed Bo. They would be thirteen next Monday.

Emma Lu was first to establish her career as a nurse. They wanted Philip to be a doctor after he fulfilled a mission. They planned that all their sons would go on missions. They had a family bank in this purpose. They called it their "love bank," because it was love for their Church, love for each other, and love for everyone in the world that prompted them to contribute to it.

Luana and her family knew the meaning of hard work. From dawn until twilight, and even beyond into the dark, torch-lit night during the harvest time, they labored on the plantation.

THE time Luana had given to painting had been moments when others were asleep. She went down to the lagoon alone in the moon-drenched night, or in the pink-blue dawn, when the world around her was so enchantingly beautiful that her heart swelled and sang with joy.

Rembrandt, Tutu had often told her, must have dreamed of Hawaiian blue, or he could not have painted such glorious color. Nothing in all the art work she had ever seen could compare with the natural blue of Hawaiian skies and water. Luana felt that she must paint it — she must give it to the world, to all

those who were not fortunate enough to visit Hawaii.

"Ben — it's time to get up," she said. "This is a big day for us, remember?"

He turned over sleepily, stretching his long arms. "A big day," he repeated, a smile parting his lips. "Every day is a big day for us, sweetheart. I wouldn't miss one of them for a million dollars, spot cash."

"Speaking of spot cash," Luana said, "we must stop at the bank. The payroll is due next week."

Ben sighed. "I know." There is always the payroll whether the crop is good or not."

"But it looks so good this season, darling. I was noticing yesterday how well the cuttings have grown. It must be the extra care Mike Togo has given them."

"You mean the extra love," Ben said. "I've never seen a young fellow who loves growing things like Mike Togo. I wish our Philip loved the plantation that way. But his heart is flying up there in the sky with airplanes and Larry Brown."

Luana nodded. "I know, dear. But he's still a boy. He's entitled to daydream," she defended.

"He's eighteen," Ben said, "ready for college in the fall. I would like him to be a doctor. We need more doctors on the islands, Lu. But he won't make up his mind."

Luana drew a deep breath. "Maybe he has made up his mind," she said. "He wants to be a pilot. I think he's afraid to tell you."

Ben sat upright. His eyes were hurt.

"Afraid to tell me!" he repeated.

494