[Vol50 | February | Magazine Page 89 | PDF Page 96]
[Title: The Home — Second Prize Story]

--- PAGE 88 (PDF page 95) ---
FEBRUARY 1963

Well, she would have plenty of solitude now. Plenty. She still wanted to pinch herself to be sure it was true. Her own children whom she had reared and loved, and nursed: Cindy through several bouts of vicious rheumatic fever — before they had penicillin, or anything else to lower the fever or protect the heart — which had left her heart damaged. There had been icebags on it day and night for weeks. The neighbors had come in, taking turns at night. But she never missed a cry, a low moan of pain.

That was her job.

Just as it had been her job to take Gregory alone on the train to a strange city for a horrible mastoid operation. He was under sedation all the way. And, oh, the nightmare at the big, busy hospital. But, Father had to stay at the store.

She wasn't sorry for herself. She had said often that mothers only did what their mothers had done for them, and what their children would do for their children. It was a pattern. A sort of hard pattern, but you learned to put the pieces together. That was most of them. But this particular piece was one which she didn't want to put into place, she didn't want to believe it was possible she wouldn't be seeing these two, wouldn't hear the grandchildren say, "Hi, Grandma," or caress the great-grandchildren.

Gregory was trying to make talk. He said, "You know, I met Jim Styles down town the other day. You know, the fellow who used to work for Father."

DID he think she was daft or something, that she couldn't remember the hired help? She nodded. He said, "He lives in a rooming house. He says it's okay. He does what he pleases. He comes down town every day."

"What does he come down town every day for?" his mother asked, crisply, and Gregory flushed before he said, "Well, he walks around, sees the sights."

"Of course, he hasn't any family. No children to look after him."

She was remembering the stooped, pathetic little man, and the words came out before she gave them much consideration. She could feel their faces set. And she unrolled the crochet-edged handkerchief in her crooked fingers. She wasn't going to beg them to keep her. No, siree. This whole thing had got her dander up. And they knew it. That's why they couldn't look her in the face, neither one of them. But she wasn't going to weep about it. As they told her, she would have to be "sensible" about it. She was getting old. She had to have special care. Nonsense. She wasn't like some doddering old ladies who had to have canes, and be helped all over. Of course, she had occasional dizzy spells, and once she had fallen, getting up in the night. But a young person could have done that. She felt as spry as she ever did. Well, most of the time, anyway.

She stared straight ahead, and she was conscious that each of her children (her children who had come to mean the length and breadth of life to her for so long) was looking out of the windows, hesitant to speak.

Finally, Gregory said, defensive-

90

--- PAGE 89 (PDF page 96) ---
ly, "You know, Mother, that Kate isn't well. She's about ready to go down."

"Women go down easy nowadays," his mother murmured, so softly that he didn't hear, and when he asked her what she said, she answered, "Nothing. Just nothing."

But Cindy went on trying again to make her mother understand that which was not quite understandable. She said, "You know, Stan has been planning to take the girls to Europe for so long. They would just die if they didn't get to go this year. All the other girls are going. I wouldn't think of leaving you in that house alone with just the neighbors to take care of you . . . and Gregory looking in. You should be glad we want to take care of you, want you to have a good place to stay. And this is the best."

"You mean this 'Manor House'?"

"Yes, you can see it up there on the hill. Look at the beautiful grounds."

"Looks just like any other institution to me. Who, in tarnation, thought to call these places Homes?"

NEITHER child answered, and the realization went about in her mind: It was sacrilege to take the name of the most intimate, the most personal of all places on earth and tack it on to places of formality and regimentation.

As they drew nearer to the place, she said, trying to keep her voice firm and crisp, "Well, let's go. But I don't feel right about it. I've still got some pride left."

Her voice quivered foolishly and the nervous tears filled her eyes. They seemed forever on the surface lately, just as they used to be in her own dear grandmother's when she was old. She had felt ashamed when she saw them, she felt ashamed of her own.

Gregory sighed. Cindy wiped her nose, saying, "Maybe when we come back, we can work out something. But, for the time being, please try to be happy here."

They had stopped, and Greg, the Third, had climbed out of the front seat and come around to open the door for them. The back of his neck was red, and his eyes looked funny as he said, "If they aren't good to you, Grandma, you just holler."

"And I suppose you'll come running?" she questioned, pinching his ear lobe as she had done since he was knee-high to a grasshopper.

"Sure will."

"You just drive a little bit slower. And come to see me sometimes."

"Sometimes." The word had such horrible overtones, as though she was going to be here forever. Days . . . weeks . . . months. Maybe even years. She found herself leaning against the large, cream-colored car.

Cindy noticed and asked, quickly, "Are you all right? You aren't sick, are you? Now, if you are, we'll take you right home."

Home? Home? She didn't have any home. She straightened up. "I'm fine," and seeing her daughter's long, slender fingers quiver ever so slightly, she managed to say, "this is nice. Look at that nice veranda. And they all seem jolly."

Cindy glanced at her quickly, trying to determine if the words were sarcasm or not, then took her arm,

THE HOME

91

--- PAGE 90 (PDF page 97) ---
as they started into the red brick building, with only one step to the porch (nice for decrepit people).

As they walked into the large, cool lobby, she thought of the homes she had had in the past: her father's stately home in England which she had left when she was only twenty to come to America, to marry Gregory, to move to a western frontier town where her home had been little more than a cabin for years — a cabin, a cabin with no facilities, with hard work inside and out. But she had had Gregory and the children and happiness, though she carried the look in her parents' eyes until this moment, and would forever.

HOW it must have hurt them to have her leave, so young, so inexperienced. She knew now, more than ever, how it was to have a child desert her. Still, she had been fortunate to have them so long, growing up in her own big house, running up and down the stairs, shouting in the yard with its swings, hammock, garden. After their father had died, they had wanted her to move in with them; but she had rented a small apartment near them, and though she hadn't liked it too well, it was home. She had come to be used to it. Most of her things were there, at least she had had those. What would she have here? A few clothes, one or two favorite pictures, some trifles. But what did she need, really?

Nevertheless, she didn't like it. She didn't like the fact that her children were doing it to her. How could their feelings for her be so different from her feelings for them?

Even as the thought ached within her, she defended them. It wasn't entirely their choice. Hadn't Cindy taken her in last year after her fall? Hadn't she insisted that she have the sunny, east guest room?

She had liked it there, even though Cindy's husband was a little childish in his possessiveness. She knew he had influenced the decision to put her here. Just as Kate and the children's needs had influenced Gregory.

She had wanted to pay at Cindy's but they wouldn't hear of it. She would be paying most of her own way here. That was good.

An attendant, neat and pretty, met them. "You're Mrs. Masters, aren't you? We're so happy to have you with us. We hope you'll be happy here."

"Oh, I'll get along," she answered, "but don't put me in with any real old women." The attendant smiled, but Lucinda managed a little scowl in return. Well, what if she were eighty-three? That didn't make her a doddering old invalid, did it?

"You share the bath with one other woman, and she is delightful. She writes poetry."

Lucinda felt her ears literally perk up. Poetry. Hmm. Jingles, probably. She would no doubt bore her to death reading them to her.

Soon they were passing an open door as they moved down the hall. A neat, gray-haired woman sat in a wicker rocker, reading. Lucinda strained hard to see the title of the book, but, she couldn't quite make it out. Cindy, noticing, said, "She is reading Robert Burns."

92

--- PAGE 91 (PDF page 98) ---
THE HOME

The nurse nodded, "She's the one."

LUCINDA shrugged, pretending indifference, though Burns was one of her favorites, that is, if he was read properly. And, she was glad to say, she knew how. Had her father been one-half Scotch?

But now, they were pausing beside the locked door. The attendant was lifting a key from a bunch that hung from her waist, was getting ready to open the door. This was it. The children would be leaving. She would be here alone. She felt sick, and her anger and incomprehension came over her again so strongly that she could hardly bear to have them touch her as they each did as she went across the threshold.

The nurse opened the window and a soft breeze moved the grayonne drapes. The scent of violets moved in softly on the wind's breath. She thought it was coming from outside, but as she moved in and got her "room eyes," she saw that the fragrance came from a small glass basketful placed on the dresser. She looked down on it. And suddenly she was back in England, preparing to leave. She was seeing another small basket filled with violets. It was one of the last things her mother had given her. Cindy, she was sure, had remembered the story and had sent them here.

But, having heard the story, having known the long years of regret, how could she bring anything near it to herself? She lifted her eyes and saw on the other side of the dresser, a lovely cyclamen plant, and on a small table, a bouquet of talisman roses. They always had been her

favorite, and they knew it. They were trying to soften her up. But she felt brittle inside. Teary, perhaps, but brittle.

The attendant had left without her so much as knowing it. The three of them were alone in the sunny room. (Gregory Third had pretended to have something to do with the car.) Lucinda removed her small, veiled hat. She managed to say, "These are very pretty," because she knew they were waiting to hear the words.

When neither of them spoke, she went on, "Cyclamen, it sounds like the taste of peppermint on the tongue. You know these are my favorites." Her fingers touched the roses as she spoke.

STILL, she couldn't bring herself to look at them. And she knew that they couldn't quite look at her. They were talking, saying how nice the room was, asking if she would like to lie down. She refused. Then, they were saying they had better go as it was dinner time. She closed her mind quickly against the dinner table at her daughter's and her son's, against the memory of the children. She nodded, and they hesitated, waiting for her to speak, to make some move toward them. Rather slowly, resolutely, she lifted her eyes to look at them.

Standing in the late afternoon sunlight, she looked upon them and saw them in the innocence of childhood, good and gentle, weeping over a kitten's dying, a dog lost; bringing her dandelions, vowing they would never love anyone as they loved her. She saw them when they had done something naughty and had been

93