[Vol50 | November | Magazine Page 868 | PDF Page 903]
[Title: Social Science]

--- PAGE 867 (PDF page 902) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

leadership of the Church was struggling with many of the most serious problems in its short history. Persecution of leaders and members was common. The exterminating order of Governor Boggs of Missouri had been issued on October 27, 1838 (see DHC III:175), and the new city of Nauvoo was being planned and constructed.

At the same time, the organization and government of the expanding Church membership had to be given strength and development. As the Church population grew, the number of men receiving the Priesthood grew. These two conditions, growth of Church membership and increasing numbers of Priesthood holders, required the development recorded in the 124th section of the Doctrine and Covenants.

Recognizing that the Melchizedek Priesthood is the power to act in God's stead upon the earth and, also, recognizing that in order to lead or participate in Church government a man must be called of God by official action of the proper authority, it was necessary to organize Priesthood holders into functioning units. In so doing the relationship between Priesthood calling and the operation or function of a Priesthood holder as an authorized officer in the Church was clarified.

2. Differentiation of Authority. In the 107th and 124th Sections of the Doctrine and Covenants directions are given for organizing the quorums, and specific duties are set up that a quorum member could be directed to perform. It was necessary for quorum members to know that while they had the power to act in

God's stead as elders, seventies, or high priests, they could not function in the government of the Church except as they were called by proper authority and sustained by the membership of the Church to minister in a particular office. However, a man may, at any time, exercise the power of the Priesthood for himself and the members of his family, such as administering to the sick.

LINES OF AUTHORITY

The Priesthood line of authority is that authority which authorizes another to ordain an individual to a calling in the Priesthood (elder, etc.); the ecclesiastical line of authority refers to the officers in charge of operations of Church government beginning with the President of the Church and including every sustained officer in the government of the Church.

Each of the officers in the ecclesiastical line of authority, including the First Presidency, stake presidency, and bishoprics, all function in their offices and receive the keys of their offices by the laying on of hands by those having proper authority.

1. Priesthood Line of Authority. Both lines of authority combine in the President of the Church. He, with his Counselors, constitute the Presidency of the High Priesthood. Peter, James, and John were ordained apostles by Jesus Christ. They, in turn, restored the Melchizedek Priesthood to this earth by ordaining Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. The Priesthood was conferred upon Joseph and, through him, to the others who were called

869

--- PAGE 868 (PDF page 903) ---
to serve with him in the organiza-
tion of the Church, and, through
them, to all the others who have
held, do now hold, or who will hold
the Melchizedek or Aaronic Priest-
hood in this dispensation of time.
Each male member of the Church
can trace his Priesthood line of or-
dination back to the Savior.

2. Ecclesiastical Line of Authority.
The President of the Church is
called of God to be the Prophet,
Seer, Revelator, and President of
The Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints. In order to receive
this office, he must hold the Mel-
chizedek Priesthood with the calling
of High Priest. He selects his Coun-
selors who are High Priests and the
three constitute the Quorum of the
First Presidency. This quorum
guides and directs the Church, with
the help of the Quorum of the
Twelve, having as their first respon-
sibility the welfare of the members
of the Church both spiritually and
temporally. The Lord, speaking to
Moses, said, "This is my work and
my glory — to bring to pass the im-
mortality and eternal life of man"
(Pearl of Great Price, 1:39). The
Church government, under the
leadership of the Prophet, is set up
to accomplish this purpose.

The authority to preside and con-
duct the organization of the Church
is in the hands of the First Presi-
dency, who operate the over-all
government of the Church through
the General Authorities. This group
operates through the stake presi-
dents and counselors. The stake
presidency functions through the
bishops of the wards and presidents
of branches. The operation of a
branch is similar to a ward. The

870

branch president may be an elder,
but functions similarly to a bishop.

Branch is the title given to the
smaller units of Church organiza-
tion. Independent branches have
a presidency and function similarly
to a ward. Dependent branches are
part of an independent branch with
authorized officers who carry out as
much of the program of the Church
as is practicable because of the scat-
tered condition of the membership.
All records and reports are made a
part of the record of the independ-
ent branch to which the dependent
branch belongs.

The bishopric is the head of the
Aaronic Priesthood in the ward in
addition to being responsible for
every member of the Church within
the boundary of the ward. This basic
unit of the Church is the center of
growth and development of the
membership.

By a commandment of the Lord
(D & C 133:8-9) missionary work
began with the organization of the
Church and has continued to be a
vital part of Church activity. Our
discussion would not be complete
without relating the administration
of the missions to the government
of the Church.

The First Presidency select and
set apart the mission president, and
he receives his instructions from
them and reports to them. The mis-
sion president has two counselors
whom he selects with the approval
of the First Presidency. The first
counselor assists the mission presi-
dent with the supervision of the
saints (mission board, auxiliaries,
districts, branches, Melchizedek and
Aaronic Priesthood, and part-time
missionary program), and the sec-

--- PAGE 869 (PDF page 904) ---
ond counselor assists in the proselyt­ing activities (missionary proselyting and training, teaching elders, super­vising elders and missionaries).

THE ORIENTATION OF
PRIESTHOOD AUTHORITY

The title of the leadership of the Priesthood line of authority is the Presidency of the High Priesthood of the Church. (The ecclesiastical line and the Priesthood line of authority are combined in the Quorum of the First Presidency.)

On the stake level, the members of the stake presidency are the pre­siding high priests of the stake. They hold the Priesthood line of author­ity in the stake and have direct charge of the Melchizedek Priest­hood quorums in the stake. The stake Priesthood committee, com­posed of the stake presidency and the high council, are assigned to the supervision of the various quorums within the stake. The Seventies Quorum has a dual allegiance to the stake authorities and to the First Council of Seventy.

1. Quorum Members and Their Relation to the Bishop. The ward bishopric have the responsibility of the welfare, spiritually and other­wise, of each Church member with­in the ward. They do not have charge of the Melchizedek Priest­hood quorums or Melchizedek Priesthood groups within their ward boundaries. This, as has just been explained, is a function of the stake presidency carried out through the stake high council. But every quorum member is a member of a ward and, as such, is accountable to his bishop.

2. Quorums and Leadership. The

[ADVERTISEMENT BOX]
What Heavenly
CHRISTMAS
SUGGESTIONS FOR
LADIES THREE PART
CHORUSES

..... BENEATH A SOUTHERN
     SKY—Rich............................... .25
..... BIRTHDAY OF A
     KING—Neidlinger................... .20
..... GESU BAMBINO—Yon............. .25
..... I WONDER AS I
     WANDER—Niles..................... .25
..... LET OUR GLADNESS KNOW
     NO END—Harris..................... .20
..... NEVER WAS A CHILD SO
     LOVELY—Niles....................... .20
..... NOWELL—Brett....................... .16
..... O HOLY NIGHT—Adam............. .25
..... SILENT NIGHT—Gruber............ .20
..... SING WE NOEL—Ellison........... .25
..... STAR OF THE
     EAST—Kennedy....................... .25
..... VIRGIN'S SLUMBER
     SONG—Reger.......................... .20

Use this advertisement as your
order blank
Music Sent on Approval

DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY
15 E. 1st South
Salt Lake City 11, Utah
Please send the music indicated
above.
□ On Approval □ Charge
□ Money Enclosed

Name .................................................
Address .............................................
City and State ..................................

[LOGO: Daynes Music Company with piano keyboard design]
15 E. 1st South
Salt Lake City 11, Utah

871

--- PAGE 870 (PDF page 905) ---
NOVEMBER 1963

Priesthood quorums are the training centers for Church leadership. Beginning with the deacons, the quorum activity provides experience in leadership, training in the principles of the gospel, and an experience in fraternalism that gives real significance to the idea of brotherhood in the Priesthood. Quorum membership, therefore, provides the most significant and specific opportunity for the training and preparation of the lay leadership in the Church.

3. The Challenge to the Family. Too often this unit of training leadership (the Priesthood quorums) does not live up to its potential. It may be because the quorum program is taken for granted and, therefore, no effort is put into it, or it may be indifference on the part of the leadership, or it may

[ADVERTISEMENT]
All of the Numbers for the
Relief Society and M.I.A.
are obtainable at

BEESLEY
Music Co.

70 SO. MAIN ST.     EM 4-6518
SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH

Mason & Hamlin — Weber —
Hardman and the
Original Cable Pianos

be that boys are without the basic home teaching regarding the sacredness of their Priesthood callings.

The strength of family influence is in evidence in every phase of Church government. Truly, the family is the basic unit. It is literally the foundation upon which effective and enduring organization depends.

Dictators, recognizing the important principal of dedication, go to every extreme to cultivate their ideas of government in the minds of children. Youngsters schooled long enough and intensively enough in communism usually become dedicated to the principles and ideals of communism.

The minds of children will respond equally well or better to training in righteousness.

The Church must be dedicated to the idea of training their members in the divine pattern of life beginning in early childhood, interpreting the Lord's way of life through parental leadership.

OPERATION OF THE AUXILIARIES

The title designating the ecclesiastical head of the Church is the First Presidency. Under their direction, but through the personal attention of members of the Quorum of the Twelve, the General Boards administer the auxiliary programs of the Church. These programs are set up under the inspiration of Priesthood leadership and are designed to help meet the needs of the various age groups in the development of effective members of the Church. Auxiliary means a help, an aid, or assistance. As the Church grew and expanded its organization,

872