[Vol50 | January | Magazine Page 67 | PDF Page 70]
[Title: Lessons in Literature — Maupassant — Moby Dick]

--- PAGE 66 (PDF page 69) ---
JANUARY 1963

Sources of Moby-Dick

In 1820, the year following Melville's birth, the whaling ship Essex of Nantucket, Massachusetts, with George Pollard, Jr., as captain and Owen Chase as first mate, was rammed and sunk by a spermaceti whale just south of the equator, not far from Tahiti.

Fearing cannibals in the unknown Pacific islands, the crew put to sea in three whaleboats for South America some two thousand miles away. During their three months at sea one boat was lost, the crews of the boats led by Pollard and Chase survived after extreme hardship and near starvation. In 1841, while sailing in the same area aboard the whaling vessel the Acushnet, young Melville met Owen Chase, then captain of another whaler, and from his son learned the fated Essex story. About the time he wrote Moby-Dick, Melville made his sole visit to Nantucket where he laid eyes on Captain Pollard, now a night-watchman who had been to sea but once since his rescue. Wrote Melville:

To the islanders he was a nobody — to me, the most impressive man, tho' wholly unassuming, even humble, that I ever encountered.

In addition, Melville knew the short story "Mocha-Dick, or the White Whale" which was published during his youth. Still, no more startling proof of genius exists than to compare Moby-Dick with these so-called sources. The true source is Melville ("Art is not nature") nor is Melville's masterpiece only a mirror reflecting the reality of whaling lore and life.

The novel Moby-Dick may be divided into three parts: (1) a long and rather matter-of-fact introduction in which the youth, Ishmael, is forewarned that the whaling voyage on the Pequod will be no ordinary one; (2) the major portion of the book which is a pursuit of the white whale, Moby-Dick, through months of wandering and which includes details of the whaling industry; (3) the final three chapters of exciting conflict, resulting in a battle with the whale and the loss of the ship. The young outcast, Ishmael, alone survives the disaster and tells the story.

Plot of Moby-Dick

Feeling forlorn and completely the outcast, young Ishmael goes to New Bedford, Massachusetts, to ship aboard a whaling vessel bound for the Pacific. At the overcrowded Spouter Inn, the mischievous innkeeper lodges him with Queequeg, a dark-skinned pagan from the South Seas, who shaves with his harpoon blade and eats almost raw steak for breakfast. Once their mutual fears are vanquished, they become inseparable friends. At Nantucket Harbor they are signed up as crew members of the Pequod. Before they go aboard, they are warned by a mysterious eccentric named Elijah to beware of their still unseen captain, Ahab, and of the fanatic savage crew he has smuggled aboard.

On Christmas day, their captain still locked in his cabin, the Pequod "blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic, and we settle down to shipboard routine." First mate is Starbuck, cool, moral, conscientious, and the only man aboard ship

68

--- PAGE 67 (PDF page 70) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

to oppose Ahab in his determination to wreak vengeance upon Moby-Dick, the white whale, which has "dismasted him" by biting off his leg during a previous whaling voyage. Humorous Stubb and irresponsible Flask are also mates. Harpooners, upon whom the entire success of the whole hunt depends, are Tashtego, an American Indian, Dagoo, a negroid, and Queequeg. And there is Pip the sprightly negro cabin-boy. Representative of the "human scum" which comprised the whaling crews of the day, the Pequod's crew were men from almost every nation, the officers being the only Americans, save for Ishmael.

Continuing the Plot

When Captain Ahab appears "topside" he places his ivory peg-leg in the deck niche cut to receive it, and peers fiercely ahead. Then, to the surprise of the crew, he invites them all into "officer country," the quarter deck, and there in pagan fury he works them into a frenzy of hatred for the white whale, Moby-Dick. He plants a gold doubloon in the mast, promising it to whoever first sights Moby-Dick. Starbuck now realizes that the hunt for the precious whale-oil from which the best quality candles of the day were made, is for Ahab but a pretense, and that he will sacrifice ship and men, if necessary, in order to kill the albino whale.

All the lore of killing whales, cutting the blubber and rendering it into oil in the huge try-pots fired by burning whale-skin, is explained in detail. And for Melville, most of the objects symbolize some phase of man's relation to the secure land,

the treacherous but life-giving sea, to death, disbelief, immortality or human brotherhood. Meanwhile, the first of several "gams" or meetings with other whalers, takes place, each time Ahab calling out his burning question, "Hast seen the White Whale?" The passing ship Rachel, hunting for crew members afloat and feared lost, reports having seen Moby-Dick only the day before.

Events quicken and intensify as a mysterious "spirit-spout" against the horizon frightens the superstitious crew, and the ship becomes aflame in an electrical storm. The crew bows and trembles, while Ahab merely defies fate. Yet for one short moment, he confesses to Starbuck his natural longings for home, wife, and child and that he himself stands aghast at the evil drive which overwhelms him, now against his will.

The White Whale is sighted and all give chase. The first day it destroys one of the whale boats. During the second day a member of the crew is killed, Ahab's ivory leg is smashed, and more men are drowned. On the third day Moby-Dick is harpooned, but Captain Ahab is caught in the line wound around the whale's flank. The infuriated whale sinks the Pequod and all are drowned save for Ishmael, who stays afloat until picked up by the crew of the Rachel that "in her retracing search after her missing children, only found another orphan."

The book, although not immediately, was praised sincerely on both shores of the Atlantic: "language in the hands of this master becomes

69

--- PAGE 68 (PDF page 71) ---
JANUARY 1963

like a magician's wand"; "a unique portrait gallery which every writer must despair of rivaling"; "the gusto of true genius"; "it must be a torpid spirit indeed that is not enlivened with the raciness of his humor and the redolence of his imagination." Yet there were many adverse comments also by those who had not the insight to catch the genius of Melville, nor the will to follow his search for the meanings of good and evil.

Melville's Living Language

As his friends and family soon learned after his return from his whaling adventures, Melville could "spin a yarn" superbly well. Proof of his skill is abundant throughout Moby-Dick. Read of Ishmael's first encounter with Queequeg (The Spouter Inn, Chap. 3); Ishmael's awareness of death (The Chapel, Chapter 7, text, page 523); Father Mapple's Sermon (page 525), a superb example of 19th century oratory and religious fervor, adapted to the sailor's idiom and mind. Really, the list is well-nigh endless. For zest and power and love of the sea's space and liberty and challenge, consider Melville's sea as described in "The First Lowering" of the whaling boats (Chap. 48).

Meanwhile the boats tore on. . . . It was a sight full of quick wonder and awe! The vast swells of the omnipotent sea; the surging, hollow roar they made, as they rolled along the eight gunwales, like gigantic bowls in a boundless bowling-green; the brief suspended agony of the boat, as it would tip for an instant on the knife-like edge of the sharper waves, that almost seemed threatening to cut it in two; the sudden profound dip into the watery glens and hollows; the keen spurrings and goadings to gain the

top of the opposite hill; the headlong sled-like slide down its other side; — all these, with the cries of the headsmen and harpooners, and the shuddering gasps of the oarsmen, with the wondrous sight of the ivory Pequod bearing down upon her boats with outstretched sails, like a wild hen after her screaming brood — all this was thrilling.

For those readers who enjoy clean, pure narration, paragraph after paragraph building up into suspense and power that is without hitch or flaw, read the three days of the chase which concluded the novel. Or if you enjoy reading people into life, then read "Knights and Squires" (Chap. 26-7) which, like "Nantucket" (Chap. 14), glorifies the average democratic man working at his trade in a manner worthy of Whitman. Or read "The Carpenter" (Chap. 107), or "The Blacksmith" (Chap. 112). Any of these readings fulfills itself if read alone; if placed in context, their power, of course, is greater.

Moby-Dick As Symbol

From its first page this novel is filled with symbols; everyday objects represent concealed truths, or fear of depths beyond themselves, a search for all ultimate yet unknowable answers. Thus the search is life, though it end in death, yet a search possible only on the fluid, unknown mystery, symbolized for Melville by water — by the ocean which encloses most of the globe. His best statement of this important symbol is found at the end of "Brit" (Chap. 58) and deserves quoting.

But not only is the sea a foe to man who is an alien to it, but it is also a fiend to its own offspring. . . . Like a

70

--- PAGE 69 (PDF page 72) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

savage tigress that tossing in the jungle, overlays her own cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales against the rocks, and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks of ships. No mercy, no power but its own controls it. Panting and snorting like a mad battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean overruns the globe.

Consider the subtleness of the sea; how its most dreaded creatures glide under water, unapparent for the most part, and treacherously hidden beneath the loveliest tints of azure. Consider also the devilish brilliance and beauty of many of the most remorseless tribes, as the dainty embellished shape of many species of sharks. Consider, once more, the universal cannibalism of the sea; all whose creatures prey upon each other, carrying on eternal war since the world began.

Consider all this; and then turn to this green, gentle, and most docile earth; consider them both, the sea and the land; and do you not find a strange analogy to something in yourself? For as this appalling ocean surrounds the verdant land, so in the soul of man there lies one insular Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but encompassed by all the horrors of the half known life. God keep thee! Push not off from that isle, thou canst never return.

But enough of this rhetorical symbolism, so reminiscent of Shakespeare who influenced Melville more than any other writer. In fact, Melville had almost finished the first version of Moby-Dick when he discovered the plays of Shakespeare. As a result of this new insight into the complexities of man and the depths of concealed truth which surround him, much of the novel was rewritten. So much did Hawthorne and Melville have in common that Melville dedicated Moby-Dick to Hawthorne and reading Hawthorne helped Melville discover his own identity. Yet it was Shake-

speare who remained the great, single, literary influence of Melville's life.

Dedicated Artist

Some of Melville's admirers have maintained that Melville was an untaught, unconscious genius who really had no idea of what he was doing when he wrote. Yet abundant proof exists that he was a most intense, dedicated artist, so acutely aware of what he hoped to create in his art, that when he felt he had fallen short of his goal, he refused to write trash for cash and so withdrew within his own proud integrity.

In the following excerpt, Melville creates in musical language, the image of stillness and peace with a pleasure uniquely his own:

It was while gliding through these latter waters that one serene and moonlight night when all the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver, and by their soft, suffused seethings, made what seemed a silvery silence, not a solitude; on such a silent night a silvery jet was seen far in advance of the white bubbles at the bow. Lit up by the moon, it looked celestial; seemed some plumed and glittering god uprising from the sea.

Thus he first defines the portentous "Spirit-spout" which foretells to all the crew their doom — a doom mirrored later by the ominous birds hovering about and by the inscrutable mysteries now glimpsed in the black waters about the ship.

Close to our bows, strange forms in the water darted hither and thither before us, while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens. And every morning, perched in our stays, rows of these birds were seen, and in spite of our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp, as though they deemed our

71