[Vol50 | December | Magazine Page 948 | PDF Page 987]
[Title: Social Science — Church Courts]

--- PAGE 947 (PDF page 986) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

coming perfect. Our degree of perfection will depend on the use we make of the divine direction, instruction, and guidance.

The purpose of the Church is to save and exalt mankind. This implies giving him the opportunity for the full expression and development of his capabilities. In all its activity, the Church offers stimulation for advancement. Dr. Widtsoe says, "It should always be remembered that the Church exists to save, not to condemn men" (Program of the Church, 1941 edition, page 162).

Essentials in Human Behavior

To attain the perfection referred to above, there are a number of important factors that must come together in proper relationship in the life of each individual. In the first place, there must be an accepted way for human beings to act in relation to other human beings. Second, there must be firmness, patience, love, understanding, and consistency in teaching the socially accepted values. Third, the person (each person) must learn the art of self-control.

The Lord has revealed the way of life which holds the greatest promise and the most direct path to perfection. The tenderness of a mother's love provides the basic environment for the training process in the accepted values. The home is assisted in this training by the Church, the school, and society in general; but until the person has learned the art of self-discipline and is able to perform, to make choices that are in harmony with the law and in line with the design of the Creator, he will not achieve the desired perfection.

1. Human Error. In the process of growing up (developing and maturing), infringement upon the rights of others and disregard for accepted social values become common errors. It is the human element, undirected or misdirected, that retards the perfection of the individual.

2. Law in Church and State. Government is instituted among men to secure order and protect rights, personal and property. In the United States and in many other countries, law is established by the people. Conformity to the law brings freedom to the individual and peace and security to the group. Knowing the law is basic to being free. This is even more true in reference to divine law. The scripture instructs us to know the truth and it will make us free. (John 8:32)

Man's law has a tendency to exact "a pound of flesh" for the broken law. There is a common philosophy that the effective treatment for law-breaking (crime) is punishment, physical suffering. For each infraction of the law, the offender must pay by a like infraction on his freedom or personal comfort. As a result of this philosophy, order or obedience to the law is too frequently based on fear of the punishment rather than a growth and development evidenced in action which reflects knowledge of an understanding of the purpose of law in society.

3. The Hope of Repentance. The objective of divine law is to stimulate human beings to reach up, to extend themselves, having as their ideal the perfection of the Savior.

949

--- PAGE 948 (PDF page 987) ---
DECEMBER 1963

If and when error creeps in, the divine principles of repentance and forgiveness open the way for the reformation of the individual. Throughout the ages God has chosen great leaders to work with the wayward, calling them to repentance in an effort to bring them back to the fold.

Righteousness and Perfection Related

There is the element of merit in all God's dealings with human beings. Credit toward perfection is given for every good deed performed in this life. His plan is to return every soul to the kingdom of heaven. As men live near to the counsel of God, they avoid the sorrow and suffering of the social evils. Freed from these shackles they are able to produce and advance. (Read IV Nephi.)

The plan of life and salvation teaches all men the value and benefit of righteous living. The wayward are given special attention with the hope that they will recognize their mistakes, exercise their agency, and elect to follow the design of the Creator. The laws of the land tend to banish people in their sins. The objective here seems to be punishment, not reformation or perfection. Jails are full of living testimonies of this attitude.

Objectives of Church Courts

The courts of the Church echo the plan of the gospel. They are designed to bring people to repentance. The objective of the Church courts is to bring to light the truth in the case, not to condemn and destroy, but to encourage reorienta-

950

tion of life in harmony with the eternal values of the gospel of Jesus Christ.

True repentance involves recognition of error, sincere sorrow for the action, restitution for the wrong done, and turning away from the error. The real success of the Church court is attained in true repentance of the one in error.

However, "sin is the transgression of the law" (I John 3:4) and God does not look upon sin with the least degree of allowance. To persist in sin produces an evil nature and will eventually destroy any claims to the mercy of heaven. The extremes of sinfulness are found in the taking of life and denying the Holy Ghost, for which there is no forgiveness.

Church Punishment

The most severe and far-reaching decision of the Latter-day Saints Church court is to sever the person's relationship with the kingdom of God. This court action is excommunication. It means that the person has lost all of the blessings of membership in the Church. All endowments and sealings, as well as Priesthood and membership, are broken, set aside, and nullified.

While it is the duty of the court to excommunicate if the conditions warrant this action, it is also the duty of every person in the court and every member of the Church to be forgiving.

. . . I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another; for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin. I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive,

--- PAGE 949 (PDF page 988) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

but of you it is required to forgive all men (D & C 64:9-10).

However, the authorized judge in a bishop's court or other courts is required to pronounce sentence for the sins of individuals and may be in a position where he must exact severe penalties. Following judgment, every judge should have the spirit of forgiveness in his heart.

1. It Is High to Be a Judge. To be a judge requires great knowledge, great wisdom, mercy, love, and understanding. These are attributes of perfection. God is perfect and he is, therefore, a just judge. Those who are commissioned to act for God upon the earth, particularly in the Church courts, are expected to make their decisions motivated by the attributes of the Great Judge. As the decision is given, a program of training and encouragement for the rehabilitation of the person should begin.

2. The Successful Court. The Church courts are really successful when the person truly repents and, through decisions motivated by recognition of truth, moves toward the better life. God then becomes the final judge of the honesty and sincerity of the individual, expressed in the activity of his or her new life. Eventually, by following divine counsel, there is the possibility that former blessings may be restored. Certain blessings, however, can be restored only by the President of the Church or one of the apostles who is authorized to do so. We must repeat again that the objective of the gospel of Jesus Christ is to save and exalt every human being.

The Church exists to save and not to condemn mankind.

The Limitation of Church Courts
The specific function of the church courts is to establish the worthiness or unworthiness of an accused person to hold membership in the Church. This is the only area (Church membership) over which the Church has the right of decision. One may be deprived of activity and blessings without losing membership. Action against law breakers is in the jurisdiction of the courts of the secular government.

1. Causes for Church Court Action. There are a number of offenses for which a person can be tried for his membership in the Church. They include persistence in the teaching of false doctrine; deliberate acts of disobedience to the teachings of the gospel; insubordination; and the breaking of the moral law with its many ramifications.

2. Cases for Civil Courts. In Section 42 of the Doctrine and Covenants verses 79, 84-86, specific reference is made to the type of anti-social behavior that should be turned over to the law of the land. At the same time it emphasizes the fact that for all such behavior the person is also breaking God's commandments. "And if he or she do any manner of iniquity, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law, even that of God" (D & C 42:87). The Church acts with regard to the breaking of the laws of the Lord, and the State with the laws of the land.

3. Mutual Understanding. In his teachings on the handling of anti-

951

--- PAGE 950 (PDF page 989) ---
DECEMBER 1963

social behavior, the Lord points out, first, that if there is a problem between two people, they should get together and settle their dispute or problem by mutual understanding. If they cannot agree, then they should call in the ward teachers to assist in the solution. Every effort should be made by the parties involved to settle their problem without bringing it to the Church courts. To do this successfully, both parties must be honest, sincere, and forgiving.

The Lord also taught the importance and sacredness of the confidence of the repentant person, emphasizing that only the people actually involved in the problem should participate in the discussion and solution.

The Value of Membership
There are two penalties that the Church courts can inflict upon the members. A person, for cause, may be disfellowshipped or excommunicated. To disfellowship a person means to deny him or her the privilege of participating in any office or calling the Church has, and highly restricts his or her activity. Eventually, through righteous living, he or she may be reinstated to full fellowship.

Excommunication, however, removes the name of the person from the Church records and takes away all rights to Church activity and blessings. The only way back to membership for this person is through repentance and baptism. Certain offenders may be re-admitted to membership by the court which took the action, but others must be determined and taken care of by the First Presidency and the Twelve, or at least the President of the Church or under his direction.

Continued Responsibility. Membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is sacred and enduring. The covenants made in baptism, in the temple, and in accepting the Priesthood are eternal in nature. Once a member of this Church, the only way out is by court action and excommunication. However, when the covenants have been made and the ordinances performed, the responsibility never ends. The court action relieves one of the blessings, but it cannot relieve one of his knowledge of the truth. When one receives a witness of the reality of God the Father, his Son Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, he cannot be free of the responsibility of that testimony even in excommunication. God is eternal. He is the final judge. "His purposes fail not, neither are there any who can stay his hand" (D & C 76:3).

Divisions of Church Courts
Normally with the Church there are three councils of justice. They are: (1) The Bishop's Court. This court is made up of the bishop and his two counselors. Their jurisdiction is limited to the membership of their ward. If the counselors are not available or are disqualified, the bishop may appoint one or two high priests not of the high council to sit in judgment with him. In exceptional cases, the stake presidency may direct the bishop to hold court in another ward. This may occur if the accused has reason to believe that a member of his own bishopric

952