[Vol50 | June | Magazine Page 462 | PDF Page 482]
[Title: Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

--- PAGE 461 (PDF page 481) ---
NOTES FROM THE FIELD

[PHOTOGRAPH - Group photo of women in white blouses and dark skirts with corsages, seated and standing in rows]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Large group photo of many women in white blouses and dark skirts arranged in multiple rows]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Indoor scene showing a crowded room with many people, appears to be some kind of gathering or meeting]

467

--- PAGE 462 (PDF page 482) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman with 1960s-style hair holding what appears to be a book, with one hand raised]

THEOLOGY • The Doctrine and Covenants

PREVIEW OF LESSONS FOR 1963-64

Elder Roy W. Doxey

THE series of revelations for study during the year 1963-64 cover subject matter that is as varied as the circumstances which brought them forth. During the six-month period of September 1831 to March 1832, the members of the Church were somewhat excited over the opening of the land of Zion (Missouri) for development and the continued progress of Zion's cause. (Section 76 of the Doctrine and Covenants given during this period will be discussed in the 1964-65 year.)

Intermittently, the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon were engaged in the revision of the Bible, an activity in which they had participated since the close of 1830. The content of two revelations for study this year resulted from this work.

By far and large, Sections in the Doctrine and Covenants resulted from the inquiries of elders who were participating in missionary service. Members of the Church who were going to Missouri also had many questions about their position as pioneers of a great work, as well as about their own spiritual condition. The Lord answered them by giving specific counsel on both of these aspects of their lives. The principle of forgiveness emphasized at this time and its application to daily situations in life, is of great importance to those who want to endure to the end.

Extremely important to the missionary, and befitting a true ambassador of the Savior, was the counsel on how he might declare the message of the last days. Instructions were given that are today in use in the mission fields in the Church.

Imagine the sense of responsibility that a missionary would receive if he were told that he could make

468

--- PAGE 463 (PDF page 483) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

scripture! What kind of a man ought I to be? could well be his reaction. How does scripture come into being? Who is the official interpreter? Are there other official interpreters of the standard works of the Church? are questions that might occur to him. These questions are discussed briefly in one of the lessons. A testimony of the truth of the revelations compiled into the Book of Commandments was given to the brethren who participated in a special conference of the Church.

The Lord did not restore his Church to fail, is the general subject matter of one of the lessons. The efforts of Satan to bring the Church to a halt have never been nor will they ever be successful. Latter-day Saints may be assured that there is neither weapon nor method that will stop the onward progress of God's work.

At this early period in this dispensation, the laxness on the part of parents in Zion (Missouri) to rear their children in the principles of the gospel brought forth a revelation that continues to guide parents.

Consideration is also given this year to the environment of the home as the necessary factor in teaching children.

Another lesson in this year's series is devoted to one of the least understood books of the Bible. The meaning of some passages from that book has been revealed anew through the Prophet Joseph Smith. These important items furnish the Latter-day Saint with a key for understanding much of the re-

mainder of the book, as well as the revealing of events from premortality to the end of the earth.

In a lesson for this year a brief preview is given of the revelations received during the year 1831. This material will provide an opportunity to see the revelations from a different perspective — the view of great principles that testify to their truth. In this same lesson one is brought to grips with a concept of every citizen of the kingdom of God as a steward.

The 1963-64 series of lessons have been given the following titles and objectives:

Lesson 49 — The Law of Forgiveness (D & C 64:1-14).

Objective: To point out that he who repents of his sins and forsakes them is forgiven of the Lord.

Lesson 50 — "Ye Are on the Lord's Errand" (D & C 64:15-43).

Objective: To suggest ways in which the saints of 1831 were on the "Lord's errand," and what this term means to us.

Lesson 51 — The Kingdom of God (D & C 65).

Objective: To learn that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the kingdom of God that was prophesied will stand forever.

Lesson 52 — The Scriptures (D & C 66; 67; 68:1-6; 69).

Objective: To appreciate more fully the manner in which scripture is made, the preparation necessary to know scripture, and the development of the revelations into a volume of scripture.

469

--- PAGE 464 (PDF page 484) ---
JUNE 1963

Lesson 53 — The Bishopric; Parenthood (D & C 68:7-35).

Objective: To examine some aspects of the bishop's calling and also the responsibility of parents to their children.

Lesson 54 — Stewardships; A Review (D & C 70, 72).

Objective: To learn the importance of stewardship, the work of the bishop, and the contributions of a year's revelations.

Lesson 55 — Missionary Service (D & C 71, 73, 74, 75).

Objective: To realize that the restored gospel, through the missionary program, is the key to happiness in this life and eternal joy in the life to come.

Lesson 56 — The Book of Revelation (D & C 77).

Objective: To glean important items of instruction of revealed latter-day knowledge from the revelation given to John the apostle on Patmos.

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE

Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

PREVIEW OF MESSAGES FOR 1963-64

Christine H. Robinson

THIS year's Visiting Teacher Messages "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants" are taken from Sections 64, 66, 67, 68, and 71. All of these Sections were given to the Prophet Joseph Smith during the fall of 1831. This was only approximately a year and a half after the restoration of the Church, and many of those who were preparing themselves for positions of leadership needed special instructions and encouragement to build the strong character qualities required by the growing Church.

Many of these revelations were given through the Prophet to specific individuals to strengthen and prepare them for the important work they had been called to perform. Consequently, the Lord emphasized the importance of the character qualities of forgiveness, perseverance, patience, and diligence. Emphasis was also placed upon the need of seeking knowledge and having faith that the Lord would answer the prayers of those who sought him diligently and confidently.

In the Church, also, there was a particularly great need for strength-

470