[Vol50 | January | Magazine Page 60 | PDF Page 63]
[Title: Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

--- PAGE 59 (PDF page 62) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

by a sign. In 1831 there were members who felt this same way. Commandments of moral purity had been given, but some had turned away from them. (D & C 63:13.) Among these covenant-breakers there were adulterers and adulteresses, a number of whom had turned away from the faith, but there were others who had not apostatized but in time they would be known. (Ibid., verse 14.) The thought suggested in this and the succeeding verse (verse 15) should be understood by those who are tempted to sin or who have sinned and remain unrepentant. It is that this person shall be known and labeled in the eyes of the people.

There follows the significant fact stated in another revelation, that the thought precedes the deed of immorality. (Ibid., 42:23.) The consequences of immoral thoughts for the Church member are loss of the spirit, denial of the faith, and the resulting fear because of the consequences in time and eternity. (Ibid., 63:16; Lesson 27, Relief Society Magazine, September 1960.)

Condemnation of the Sinner

President Joseph F. Smith considered that of all principles of the gospel which emphasized the attributes of justice in Deity is the fact that all men will be rewarded for their works, whether they be good or evil. (Gospel Doctrine, 9th edition, page 69.)

In accordance with this truth, the Lord has revealed much concerning the final state of the unrepentant sinner. Language similar to what was later revealed concerning the salvation offered to those who willfully sin with knowledge, is given in this revelation. Belief in false teachings or unbelief in the doctrines as restored to the Church in this dispensation, constitutes in the member a form of falsehood or misrepresentation of belief. The member of the Church is committed by covenant to believe the doctrines and to live the principles that the Lord has revealed. The condemnation for those who love and make a lie, and the immoral, is to receive the telestial kingdom. (D & C 63: 17-18; 76:98-107.) They suffer the vengeance of eternal fire to receive the torment of conscience, which is like an unquenchable fire. (Mosiah 2:37-38.) The mental torment of those who receive the lake of fire and brimstone is described by the Prophet Joseph Smith in this way:

A man is his own tormentor and his own condemner. Hence the saying, They shall go into the lake that burns with fire and brimstone. The torment of disappointment in the mind of man is as exquisite as a lake with fire and brimstone. I say, so is the torment of man (DHC VI:314).

Because there were immoral members in the Church, some having left but others to be ferreted out if they did not repent, the membership was not justified in allowing these conditions to exist. (D & C 63:19.) The Lord has prescribed excommunication of these persons unless they speedily repent. (Ibid., 42:24-26, 80-81, 87.)

The Faithful Are Justified

Those, however, who endure in faith by keeping the commandments are promised great blessings, even

61

--- PAGE 60 (PDF page 63) ---
JANUARY 1963

beyond their present comprehension.

Nevertheless, he that endureth in faith and doeth my will, the same shall overcome, and shall receive an inheritance upon the earth when the day of transfiguration shall come (D & C 63:20).

Familiar to students of the scriptures is the meaning of "overcome." As used in the above verse, the person of faith becomes free of the bondage of sin by overcoming the sinful habit or impediment to his eternal progression. (Romans 6:18; 2 Peter 2:19.) They shall overcome all things and receive an exaltation in the Father's kingdom. (Rev. 21:7; D & C 84:38.)

The Day of Transfiguration
For those who have overcome through faith, an inheritance upon the earth is promised. (Matt. 5:5.) For this intent was the earth created. (D & C 88:17-20.) But before the earth is celestialized as the home of celestial beings, which is its final transfiguration, the Lord has said that the earth shall receive a regeneration (Matt. 19:28), for it will be restored to its former condition as a paradise. The Tenth Article of Faith mentions that the "earth will be renewed and receive its paradisical glory." Thus the earth will be restored to its former state when it is transformed to the condition before it fell to its present telestial state. (D & C Commentary, page 377.)

Questions for Discussion
1. Name the three signs given in the lesson that are present in the world today.
2. In what way do these three signs constitute powerful evidence to support the fact that the Lord has spoken from the heavens in the last days?
3. What is the purpose of signs for the faithful saint?
4. Tell what blessing in Section 63 is promised the faithful member of the Church.

The New Day

Evelyn Fjeldsted

The wind, that grand old trouper, plays
Upon the leafless vibrant trees,
And mystic tones like flying notes,
Sound out in many changing keys.

A golden lunar constellate,
Following a course on high,
Rolls behind a lonely cloud,
And out along a star-splashed sky.

Silver streamers on a sea
Of teeming light will soon appear.
The wind is gone, the sun will shine.
Another day is near.

62

--- PAGE 61 (PDF page 64) ---
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES

Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Message 47 — "It Is Not Meet That I Should Command in All Things"
(D & C 58:26).

Christine H. Robinson

For First Week, April 1963

Objective: To emphasize the fact that it is through the exercise of free agency that we develop initiative and self-reliance.

FREE agency is a fundamental part of the gospel, in fact a war was fought in heaven over it.

Our Father in heaven counsels us to pattern our lives on gospel principles. He has given us laws and commandments as guides, which, if followed, will assure us happiness in this life and joy in the world to come. Nevertheless, he allows us to exercise our own judgment and free agency in the application of these principles and in following these commandments. Only in this way can we learn, grow, and progress. One purpose of free agency is to enable us to develop sufficient initiative that we will not need to be commanded in all things.

In fact, when the Prophet Joseph Smith was asked how he governed his people he replied, "I teach them correct principles, and they govern themselves."

This wise principle of living was also emphasized by the Savior in his parable of the unprofitable servants. In this parable Jesus asked, "Doth he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him?" The Savior responded in the negative to his own inquiry and then added: "So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants: we have done that which was our duty to do" (Luke 17:10).

Not only should we follow the Lord's specific commandments, but to be profitable servants, we should go the extra mile and use initiative and free agency in doing good and in living true Christian lives.

One reason why our Father in heaven encourages us to exercise our free will and judgment is so that we can develop confidence and self-reliance.

There is an old story which states that some of the ancient alchemists believed that if they could find one special element they could change some of the common baser metals into pure gold; but this rare element always eluded them.

A similar rare element of character, however, need not be so elusive. This important character element is self-reliance in combination with

63

--- PAGE 62 (PDF page 65) ---
JANUARY 1963

humility. In order to build successful lives we must have confidence and self-reliance in our own God-given talents and abilities.

Plato said, "Take charge of your lives, you can do with them what you will." In his wisdom he knew that those who were self-reliant sought constantly to discover and overcome their own shortcomings which kept them from accomplishing the things they were capable of doing.

Someone has wisely said, "No man has made a great success of life or a fit preparation for immortality by doing merely his duty," and The Doctrine and Covenants states, ". . . for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward" (D & C 58:26).

President Henry D. Moyle expressed this thought beautifully when he said, "We ourselves must act. We must initiate our own search for truth of our own free will. Once we do, the Lord magnifies us, fills our souls with his holy spirit . . ." (CR, October 1959, page 93).

Let us follow the admonition of the Lord and do many things of our own free will, "and bring to pass much righteousness," for the Lord has said, "For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward" (D & C 58:27-28).

WORK MEETING

The Latter-day Saint Home

(A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)

Discussion 7 — The Latter-day Saint Home Exemplifies Thrift

Dr. Virginia F. Cutler

For Second Meeting, April 1963

Objective: To show that a family can know the feeling of security through work and the wise use of resources.

THE main ideas of this discussion are given through the use of a flip chart.* The four messages for the chart follow:

1. Keep out of the deficit spending trap. Plan your budget on your terms.

2. Avoid revolving credit. Consider costs of using other people's money.

*A flip chart has messages written and illustrated on large sheets of white wrapping paper or cardboard and fastened together on a stick and hung on an easel. As one message is given, the sheet is flipped over for the next.

64