[Vol50 | June | Magazine Page 444 | PDF Page 464]
[Title: A Wedding Ring Tree]

--- PAGE 443 (PDF page 463) ---
LET'S GROW AFRICAN VIOLETS

HUMIDITY

Most modern homes are too dry for violets. Do everything possible to increase the humidity. Put blocks of styrofoam or bottle tops of any kind in the individual containers in which the plants sit. Then pour water in the container up to but not over the styrofoam or bottle top. Never let the pot sit in the water. Hot water is best, as your plants will love the steam. Evaporation of the water creates humidity. Vases or jars of water placed among the plants will increase humidity with evaporation. Do keep some plants in your kitchen and give them the benefit of steam from your cooking and the hot water tap.

SOIL

Saintpaulias, in their natural state, grow in leaf mold. It follows, then, that they must have a loose, porous soil. Most important, too, the soil must be sterilized, just in case nematodes or other pests are lurking in some of the ingredients. Porous, sterilized soil is available at many stores. If you want to mix your own, it is a matter of collecting leaf mold, peat moss, manure, sand, pearlite, fertilizers and sterilizing, either by baking, steaming, or by the use of a chemical. A good many people do not care to bother with mixing soil, where it is available commercially.

Violets will benefit from being repotted in fresh soil periodically. One national expert declares that she repots each plant every three to six months. This seems a little often. But everyone agrees they should be repotted at least once a year.

WATERING

Frequency and method of watering are most important. It is better to water from the top, rather than the bottom, because top watering pushes down through the soil the salts which accumulate on the rim of the pot and cause the outside leaves resting on the rim to become soft. It also relieves you of the necessity, when watering, of reclocking each plant to see that the flower pot is not standing in water.

Water only when the top soil feels dry to the touch. Wick watering is a convenient method, but requires special equipment. The size of the pot and the material from which it is made govern the frequency of watering. Small pots dry out faster than large ones, and clay pots dry out faster than glazed or plastic ones. Do not let your plants get excessively dry, but do not overwater, as this will rot the roots.

FEEDING

In order to bloom well, violets must be fed regularly. There are a large number of African violet fertilizers on the market. Use according to directions on the can. The heavy-leaved violets, known as Supremes, require more food than the other kinds. Feed them once a week during the heavy blooming period. Feed the other kinds every two weeks.

Your violets will bloom better if left in small pots. One mistake many people make is to buy a blooming plant in a small pot, take it home, and immediately transplant it into a larger one. The plants will usually tell you when they want a larger pot by sending roots through the opening in the bottom of the container.

One bit of grooming which will beautify your plants and make them grow better is to wash the foliage. Your plants get dusty, just as your furniture does, and the dust clogs the plant pores. Simply tilt the plant sideways under the tap and run a gentle stream of lukewarm water over the leaves, being careful to see that the soil does not fall out. When you have turned the plant completely around and washed each of the larger outside leaves, and as many of the second row as you can without

--- PAGE 444 (PDF page 464) ---
JUNE 1963

depositing any water in the center of the plant, tap the wet leaves gently so that no excess of water remains on them. Then set the plant in a spot out of bright light until it is completely dry. Sun or even bright light on wet leaves will spot them. It is well to wash the plants at night. In the morning they will be completely dry and can be set in their regular place in the light.

PROPAGATION

African violets are easily propagated from leaves. Choose a sturdy leaf, but not from the older leaves on the outside row nor the newest ones from the center. Dip the end of the leaf in a rooting hormone, then insert in damp vermiculite. Place the pot containing vermiculite and the leaf in a small plastic bag, cut two small holes on opposite sides of the bag for ventilation, and close the top with a piece of twist tape, such as is used on bread packages. Set in a fairly light place. All you have to do is examine it every three or four weeks to see if it needs watering. The humidity in the bag will produce plantlets much faster than by any other method.

When the plantlets are about two inches high, remove from the bag and allow them to grow stronger before dividing. When they are ready to divide, withhold water for a day or two. They will pull apart more easily if they are not wet. Pull the plantlets apart carefully so that each one retains its share of roots. The mother leaf, if still crisp, may be put down for a second crop of plantlets.

VENTILATION

There should be good circulation of air about your plants, but avoid drafts and sharp changes. If your plants are located in a spot where there is no new air available from a door or window, use a fan for a short time to keep the air circulating. Do not turn the fan directly on the plants. Turn it so the breeze created by it blows above the plants.

VARIETIES

There are so many, many varieties of African violets that it is difficult for anyone to make a choice as to which ones she wants in her collection. There is one point on which we are all agreed, however. We want the ones which will give us the most blooms over the longest period of time. Hybridizers recognize this point and are constantly working on bloom production, plus the added feature of coming into bloom early. It is a noticeable feature of some of the newest varieties that they begin to bloom much earlier than most of the older varieties did.

As to classes, there are both single and double blossom varieties in the Standard, Supreme, and Miniature types. Supremes have heavy leaves, larger blossoms, but not so many, require heavier feeding, and, as a rule, grow more slowly than Standards. Dwarfs and Amazons have the same characteristics as Supremes. Miniatures are sometimes small enough for the entire plant to fit into a teacup.

By all means, keep your plants to a single crown. Some varieties have a tendency to sucker. That is, they send out tiny new plants off the central stalk between the leaves of the original crown, destroying the symmetry of the plant and making what is known as a multiple-crown plant. When small, suckers can easily be taken off with tweezers or the rubber end of a pencil. Suckers do not have roots, but can be rooted the same as a leaf to become a new plant.

There is a saying in the violet world that the most important requisite in growing violets is TLC — tender, loving care.

Happy violet growing to you!

450

--- PAGE 445 (PDF page 465) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Iaeli Pe'a, Artist of Samoan Handicrafts

IAELI PE'A was born in Iva, Savaii, Western Samoa, and became a member of the Church at the age of ten. She married Tuiufu Pe'a, a devoted member of the Church, and their travels took them to many lovely islands and villages — Tuasivi, Samiatu, Aleipata, Samata Itai, Safotu, Vaiola. Iaeli served as president of Relief Society in eight different branches. She tenderly nursed the sick, taught the women household arts and crafts, and wherever she went she carried the message and the spirit of the gospel.

In the picture Sister Pe'a is wearing in her hair a single yellow hibiscus with a purple center. The necklaces in her hands were made from small gray seashells found among the coral on the reefs. The siapo work hanging in the background, and the piece under Sister Pe'a's left hand represent the native tapa cloth made from mulberry bark after it has been soaked in sea water, then patterned over a wooden board, and colored with native dye, usually brown and black. Siapo cloth is used for curtains, table covers, wall hangings, and sometimes for clothing. The quilt at the left is made of cotton squares and lined with muslin (not quilted).

Sister Pe'a has six living children, sixty-four grandchildren, and fourteen great-grandchildren. She still serves as work meeting leader in her branch Relief Society.

451

--- PAGE 446 (PDF page 466) ---
I can see this appears to be a scanned page from the Relief Society Magazine, but the image quality makes it extremely difficult to read the text clearly. The page appears to show what looks like a map with stars marking various locations, and there seems to be text content, but the contrast and resolution are too poor for me to accurately transcribe the specific text content.

I can make out "FOR 1962" and "ANNUAL REPORT" in the text on the right side of the image, but I cannot reliably read the rest of the content well enough to provide an accurate transcription that meets the scholarly standards you've requested.

For proper academic archival purposes, this page would need to be rescanned at a higher resolution and better contrast to allow for accurate transcription of all text content.