[Vol50 | November | Magazine Page 851 | PDF Page 886]
[Title: Stretching the Food Budget Part III — Peanut Butter]

--- PAGE 850 (PDF page 885) ---
NOVEMBER 1963

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Cincinnati Stake (Ohio) Visiting Teachers Honored at Convention
April 13, 1963

Front row, left to right: Phyllis Laney (who has served ten and one-half years); Angelina Jerdon (eighteen years); Ann Wells (eleven years); Hazel Stroup (ten years); Rosa Ban (fifty-two years); Adeline Taylor (twenty years).

Second row, left to right: Connie Ban (twelve years); Erma Wolf (nineteen years); Doris Hunt (ten years).

Back row, left to right: Juanita Laurents, President, Cincinnati Stake Relief Society (ten years service as a visiting teacher); Ollie Ferris (twelve years). The total years of the service of this group of visiting teachers is 184½ years.

Sister Laurents reports: "We feel that this convention was very successful in that it inspired the leaders of our ward Relief Societies to make greater efforts in the visiting teacher program. The wards have many problems to overcome. There are many miles between the homes of most of the saints. Some of the visiting teachers have to travel 100 miles total distance to do their visiting teaching. Many of the sisters do not drive, and most of them have small children. There are some wonderful faith-promoting experiences to be learned from those who are faithful to this work, and some of these experiences were pointed out in our convention. One example is the work of Sister Marcella Roberts of the Northern Kentucky Ward. She has walked a distance of from twelve to fifteen miles, for many years, to do her visiting teaching.

"Our convention began with a lovely salad luncheon served by the stake board. It was buffet style. Our tables were beautifully decorated by the sisters of the Cincinnati Second Ward. They used green candle holders filled with yellow daffodils, accented with green satin ribbon, as centerpieces.

"After the luncheon, the film 'Unto the Least of These' was shown, and a program given. The two visiting teachers who have served the longest, and are now serving, were honored. They were presented with Relief Society pins by the stake Relief Society president. Lillie McGee, who has served for twenty-two years, and Rosa Bang, who has served for fifty-two years, were the recipients of these pins. Sister Bang gave a talk on 'The Blessings That Have Come to Me As a Visiting Teacher.' 'The Responsibilities of a Visiting Teacher' was the subject of the stake Relief Society president's talk. An appropriate musical number, beautifully rendered, by one of our visiting teachers, was given."

852

--- PAGE 851 (PDF page 886) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

[ILLUSTRATION: Woman with short hair holding an open book, gesturing with one hand]

THEOLOGY • The Doctrine and Covenants

Lesson 53 — The Bishopric; Parenthood

Elder Roy W. Doxey

(Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 68:7-35)

For First Meeting, February 1964

Objective: To examine some aspects of the bishop's calling and also the responsibility of parents to their children.

INTRODUCTION

Four elders, one of whom was Orson Hyde, came to the Prophet Joseph Smith that they might learn the mind of the Lord concerning themselves. With the assurance that Elder Hyde and the other elders named would be sustained by the Lord in their missionary work as they faithfully fulfilled their callings, it was revealed that there should be no fear in their hearts. They were to declare their testimony of Jesus Christ as the Son of the living God who is yet to come in glory on the earth.

MISSIONARY MESSAGE

All the faithful elders of the Church are to teach the testimony of Christ and the way that men may accept him as their Savior — by the first principles and ordinances of the gospel. As the disciples of the meridian dispensation were commanded to go into all the world with the message of faith, repentance, baptism in water, and the baptism of the Spirit, so also the elders of this dispensation are to carry the same message. (Matt. 28:19-20; D & C 68:7-9.) The promise is given that the elders so endowed with that Spirit would be blessed with signs, and they would also know of the signs of the times that herald the second coming of Christ. (Ibid., verses 10-11.)

The saints will know the meaning of the times because the Lord has been kind to us and to all men who will believe the prophets. He who is wise in being forewarned will follow the path of safety by so living that he shall have the companionship of the Holy Ghost that gives

853

--- PAGE 852 (PDF page 887) ---
NOVEMBER 1963

peace, comfort, and a sense of security. The world may not recognize the signs that announce the imminence of the Lord's second coming, but Latter-day Saints have reason to neither disbelieve nor fail to understand their importance.

In terms of missionary obligation President Heber J. Grant said:

The one supreme thing that devolves upon me, upon you and upon every Latter-day Saint is the preaching of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, in public and in private, and above all to proclaim the gospel in our lives, by being absolutely honest in keeping the commandments of the Lord (Conference Report, October 1926, page 6).

THE OFFICE OF BISHOP

The first instruction given that bishops would be a part of the Church organization in this dispensation is found in Section 20:66-67, although these officers are mentioned as officiating in the Church during the time of the New Testament. (Phil. 1:1; Titus 1:7.)

Edward Partridge became the first bishop, his appointment being made at the time of the introduction of the law of consecration in 1831. (D & C 41:9; 57:7.) Other bishops and counselors in the bishopric, as well as agents of the Church such as Algernon S. Gilbert (Ibid., 53:4) were appointed as the need arose. At this early period Bishop Partridge presided in Missouri while Bishop Newel K. Whitney officiated in a similar capacity at Kirtland, Ohio. (Ibid, 72:8.)

As Paul said anciently, he who serves as bishop is in a good work. (I Tim. 3:1.) President George Albert Smith said this about such a call:

... There is no position in the Church that will bring a greater blessing to any man than the office of a bishop, if he will honor that office and be a real father to the flock over whom he is called to preside.

I have followed them and seen what their experiences were; they have a very great responsibility, and it takes a lot of their time. But I want to say to you that there is no bishop, nor has there been a bishop in the Church, who has given the time that the Lord expected him to give in looking after the flock and teaching his people and preparing them to do the work, that has not received one hundred percent of the blessings that he labored for, and they will extend to him throughout the ages of eternity.

He may not have had wealth, may not have had distinction. He may not have had the honor of presiding over clubs and things of that kind, but if he has done his duty as a bishop, he has walked hand in hand with the Father of us all, and everything that he has done to bless his kind is laid up as a treasure in heaven and nobody can take the blessing from him (Conference Report, October 1948, pp. 186-187).

BISHOPRIC APPOINTMENTS

The office of bishop and calls thereto are stated in Section 68 following the missionary call of the elders mentioned in verse 7. As the Church grew, additional workers were called to take care of the temporal concerns of the members and the Church. (Ibid., 68:14.) These brethren were to be worthy high priests and appointed by the First Presidency. (Ibid., verse 15.) It is explained that a high priest has authority to officiate in all lesser offices of the Melchizedek Priesthood including that of bishop which holds the presidency of the Aaronic Priesthood. (Ibid., 107:13-15.) Since the Aaronic Priesthood is an ap-

854

--- PAGE 853 (PDF page 888) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

pendage to the Melchizedek Priesthood, the elder or high priest may officiate in the offices of that Priesthood. (Ibid., 107:10.)

Thus a ward bishop presides over the Aaronic Priesthood of his ward by reason of his ordination and setting apart as the president of the Aaronic Priesthood, and, at the same time, he presides over the Melchizedek Priesthood members of his ward, but not the quorum, because he is a high priest.

LITERAL DESCENDANTS

From the time of Adam into Moses' period the Higher Priesthood functioned. In the days of Moses, however, Aaron and his sons were set apart as priests in the Aaronic Priesthood which was named for Aaron. This Priesthood was conferred upon Aaron and his descendants for all time. (D & C 107:13.)

We learn in Section 68 that the seed of Aaron have a legal right to the presidency of the Aaronic Priesthood, provided the individual is the firstborn among the sons of Aaron and thus by birthright has the right of presidency. (Ibid., verses 16-17.) When no literal descendant can be found, and up to this time he has not been found, a high priest officiates as the Presiding Bishop of the Church. In the event a lineal descendant were available he would have to receive the requirements set forth in this revelation; that is, he would have to receive the same kind of a call as all other officers in the Church. The claimant to this presidency would have to be designated by the First Presidency and ordained by that Presidency, if he was worthy. A further limitation is put upon such a person in that it would be necessary for him to prove his lineage or to ascertain it "by revelation from the Lord" under the hands of the Presidency of the Church. (Ibid., verses 19-21.) These provisions again remind us that the Lord's house is one of order. It would be impossible for the membership of the Church to be deceived in accepting a deceiver who would lay claim to this priesthood. Subsequently, the Lord revealed that the literal descendant, properly appointed, could act without counselors. (Ibid., 107:76.)

Another item concerning the Presiding Bishop given in Section 68 concerns the trial of that officer. Verses 22 through 24 specify that the First Presidency may try him for his membership. The ward bishop is not in the same position, since he may be tried by the presidency of the stake under whose jurisdiction he serves, because he does not hold the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood for the Church as does the Presiding Bishop.

MARRIAGE AND PARENTHOOD

Marriage and parenthood are commanded of the Lord as necessary to fulfill the purpose of man's creation and also that of the earth. Those who maintain that marriage is not intended by God are not of him. In the foreordained plan of salvation, the spirit sons and daughters of God were destined to come to the earth and receive the experiences that an earth life offers. (D&C 49:15-17.) The assumption of parenthood by husband and wife entails an obligation of the most sacred kind. When one contem-

855