[Vol50 | November | Magazine Page 858 | PDF Page 893]
[Title: Visiting Teacher Messages — "And They Shall Also Teach Their Children to Pray..."]

--- PAGE 857 (PDF page 892) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

ment was being erected for Gaius Gracchus, one of her distinguished sons, he was asked what inscription should be engraved on the statue for future generations to remember. He responded, "Simply inscribe 'Gracchus son of Cornelia.'"

Without doubt, the gift of children constitutes the richest blessing, and at the same time, the greatest responsibility, that come into parents' lives. From Adam's time onward our Father in heaven has reminded us of this great blessing and responsibility and has repeatedly admonished us to teach these children, "to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord." To Adam the Lord said "Therefore I give unto you a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your children" (Moses 6:58).

Although teaching our children "to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord" has always been of great importance, it probably has never been more urgent than it is today. We live in a fast-moving, complicated world full of pressures, which tend to pull parents and children apart and to encourage children to depart from righteous principles. Satan has never worked harder to enslave and to ensnare. With perverse advertisements and enticements he is working overtime on our youth.

Solomon said, "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6). Undoubtedly, as stated in this scripture, if a child is taught righteousness from birth, he will most likely be a follower of righteousness always.

In the teaching of our children we should remember that they learn best from example and experience. The example we set for them is, without doubt, one of their most forceful motivators to action. If we expect our children to live uprightly, we must set the example of upright and righteous lives. "A father and a little son crossed a rough street one stormy day. 'See, Father,' said the little one, 'I stepped in your steps all the way.'"

Experience, too, is a great and effective teacher. If we want prayer to become a fundamental part of our children's lives, we should give them regular opportunities to pray as they grow up. We should kneel with them regularly morning and night, so that prayers will become a part of their very lives. Let us give our children continuous opportunities to express thanks for and ask blessings upon the food. By all means let us all kneel regularly with our children in family prayer. If we are really wise parents we will, through example and experience, teach our children to have faith in our Father in heaven and to counsel with him constantly in all of their hopes, desires, and problems.

Love is a fundamental part of righteous teaching. The love, consideration, understanding, and interest we consistently show our children, will do much to help them set righteous foundations upon which they will build their lives. Also, as a fundamental part of upright training, we should teach our children to be good citizens and love their fellow men.

No effort or activity in our whole lives will bring us such rich dividends as the teaching of righteous-

859

--- PAGE 858 (PDF page 893) ---
NOVEMBER 1963

ness to our children. In the words of Solomon, "The father of the righteous shall greatly rejoice: and he that begetteth a wise child shall have joy of him" (Proverbs 23:24). Surely, one of the greatest joys in life is to see our children walk uprightly before the Lord.

WORK MEETING

The Latter-day Saint Home

(A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)

Discussion 13 — Planning Exterior Upkeep of the Home

Dr. Virginia F. Cutler

For Second Meeting, February 1964

Objective: To make the home a beautiful setting conducive to various types of family activities.

THE ancient Israelites wrote signs on the posts and gates of their houses to let everyone know that people who believed in God occupied these dwellings. Our forebears of the last century didn't write word signs for this purpose, but there were many signs in Mormon villages where fences were mended, wood was piled up neatly for the winter, houses and barns, no matter of what material — log or stone — were in good repair. There was usually plenty of family activity to indicate that planning extended beyond the needs of this day, this month, or this year. Belief in God and in eternal values was evidenced in the training of children as families worked together to make their homes a heaven on earth.

Today the "remnant" of ancient Israel is scattered throughout the world, with nonbelievers on every side. In some areas, multiple housing and suburban living are replacing the family farm. Our problem is: how can the family work together to take care of today's needs and provide a setting conducive to the development of each individual — a setting so strong in its influence that without words written on gates or posts, it will tell the world what manner of people live inside?

If you follow the great tradition of the past, you will answer this question by putting your roots down in any place you may live, no matter for how brief a stay or whether you own or rent, leaving it better than you found it. You may have heard people apologize for the bad condition of their living quarters by

860

--- PAGE 859 (PDF page 894) ---
saying, "We are only renting, so we don't want to spend any money, time, or effort on this place because it belongs to the landlord," or "We plan to move in a few months, so there is no point in doing anything to the house or yard." One can become so conditioned to squalor, ugliness, filth, disrepair, and disorder that the eyes no longer see and the mind no longer perceives anything better. To save yourself from this sad plight, it is important to stand off away from where you live and look at what you call "home" critically. Does it express your ideal of an appropriate setting for your family? Is there anything about the place that lifts your soul? Do you sense order, cleanliness, integrity, fair dealing, kindness, and reverence from the appearance? Is there a certain individuality about the place that bespeaks your way of life? After your critical appraisal, make a list of what should be done and plan to involve the whole family in making improvements.

One family decided that the house needed paint, so a project was planned that required the help of all six of the offspring. The small children cleaned up and painted the screens. The older children, who could use ladders, helped with scraping off old paint and put on the primer. The adults did the finish coat. The work could have been criticized by a professional painter, but if the family had had to wait until they had money enough to hire it done, they would have missed the excitement of bringing about the transformation and the fun of working and planning together. Other projects followed. Books about

landscaping were borrowed from the library, and a plan for some trees, shrubs, and flowers was developed. Cuttings were obtained from neighbors and relatives, and it wasn't long until the house became more rooted to the site, and, through the loving care of each member, it started to express the ideals and aspirations of the occupants. The children took turns in taking care of the garbage and each was responsible for putting play equipment under cover after use. A swing was hung in the back yard. A sandbox was provided. A picnic table was constructed, and so many neat projects grew out of what had thus far been accomplished that no longer was there the problem of children always wanting to go some place else — to them, there was no place quite like home.

A young couple just starting out in marriage went to Tokyo to serve in the Armed Forces. They had imagined their home as a picturesque Japanese house and garden, but found that they were to be housed in the ugly gray of army barracks. Instead of bemoaning their plight, they did something about it. They painted their front door green and put out a welcome mat. Some trailing vines and other potted plants were grouped on either side of the doorway. A low bench with a gay cover tacked on provided a place to sit down and take off one's shoes before entering. There was promise of something even more interesting inside, and the lucky ones who had the privilege of entering were not disappointed. A Japanese fish net, shells from the seashore, some Japanese prints, and seasonal flower ar-

861

--- PAGE 860 (PDF page 895) ---
NOVEMBER 1963

rangements made one forget completely the ugly army barracks seen from the outside. This was the setting for the birth of their first child, and the setting where they learned to plan and work together to make a place better than they found it. Here was a Latter-day Saint home that had its label written on the doorway through other symbols than words. What label do you have on your doorway?

LITERATURE • America's Literature

The Last Hundred Years

Lesson 45 — Robert Frost, Modern New England Classic (1874-1963)

Elder Briant S. Jacobs

(Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 825-833)

For Third Meeting, February 1964

Objective: To discover Robert Frost through a sympathetic understanding of his poetry.

The poems included in this lesson are from Complete Poems of Robert Frost. Copyright 1923, 1928, 1930, 1939, by Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc., Copyright 1936 by Robert Frost. Copyright renewed 1951, (c) 1956, by Robert Frost. Reprinted by permission of Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc.

THE death in February 1963 of the poet Robert Frost, a four-time Pulitzer prize winner, removed from the list of living American literary artists, a man of no mean accomplishment. He, together with Carl Sandburg and T. S. Eliot, supplied the extreme diversity in poetical composition which reflects the American image. It is found complete in no one writer alone. While Eliot has enjoyed by far the greatest influence as nucleus of the sophisticated "modern" school of criticism and poetry, by comparison Sandburg and Frost have come to be considered as old-fashioned affirmers who write of the people and to the people — literary outlaws they are, more bluntly stated. Yet, pervasive and fashionable though the Eliot school has been for over thirty years, it is Sandburg and T. S. Eliot whom many have loved and honored, possibly because these two old-fashioned "moderns" have written poetry which is more understandable, and because, in turn, they have loved and championed the virtues of plain, average Americans.

"Ends and beginnings — there are no such things." The best proof

862