[Vol50 | February | Magazine Page 133 | PDF Page 140]
[Title: Hazel L. Giles Collects Pioneer Relics]

--- PAGE 132 (PDF page 139) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH - Two women in dark dresses standing on either side of a framed landscape artwork]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Large group of women in white tops arranged around a piano, appears to be a choir]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Large group of women of various ages posed together in multiple rows]

--- PAGE 133 (PDF page 140) ---
NOTES FROM THE FIELD

Morgan Stake (Utah), Morgan Ward Presented Beautiful Painting of Nauvoo, March 17, 1962

Evadna R. Francis (right), Morgan Ward, presents a painting of Nauvoo to Emma Lou W. Bell (left), President, Morgan Ward Relief Society.

Hazel F. Durrant, President, Morgan Stake Relief Society, reports: "At their anniversary party, the Morgan Ward Relief Society sisters were given a beautiful original painting of Nauvoo, painted and presented by Evadna R. Francis. The painting depicts Nauvoo as it may have been when the Relief Society was functioning during its years of infancy, where it was first organized. The painting now enhances the space where it hangs in the Relief Society room, and is enjoyed by ward and stake members alike as they gather there. Sister Francis is a busy homemaker. She has served in all the women's auxiliary organizations, both ward and stake, and is a former president of the Morgan Ward Relief Society. She has served as a visiting teacher for fourteen years, missing only one month in that time. She is a registered nurse and does part-time nursing occasionally and can all who need her help. She taught the work meeting course for 1961 in Morgan Stake. She is a new student of art and has been studying for only two and one-half years. Of her thirty-one completed paintings, she considers 'Nauvoo' her most rewarding, probably because of her reason for creating it."

Twin Falls Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Participate in the Chorus for Relief Society Annual General Conference, for the Semi-Annual Church Conference, and Other Occasions

Mona H. Brown, President, Twin Falls Stake Relief Society, reports the outstanding accomplishments of the Singing Mothers of Twin Falls Stake: "Our Singing Mothers began practicing in April in preparation for the opportunity to sing at Relief Society Conference and General Conference. Although they spent many hours away from their families and homes, they have all expressed their gratitude for the opportunity to sing under the direction of Sister Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society, and feel that it has been one of the greatest events of their lives. This group also sang for our Relief Society Convention in August, for the stake quarterly conference in September, and in Burley, with the seven stakes from this region, in a special concert under the direction of Sister Madsen. Betty Birrell is our chorister, and Wilda Carlson is organist."

Santaquin-Tintic Stake (Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers at Convention May 17, 1962

Jennie W. Murdoch, President, Santaquin-Tintic Stake Relief Society, reports that a large percentage of the stake visiting teachers attended the convention: "Our theme was 'Blessed art thou, visiting teacher.' The beautiful music was furnished by the Goshen Ward Singing Mothers. An original song was composed and sung for us. Our guest speaker was Sister Lavina Pugal of Pleasant Grove. She is a truly great Latter-day Saint mother, and an American Mother of a past year. She made us feel that it is a great privilege and blessing to be a visiting teacher.

"There are over a thousand years of visiting teaching represented by the sisters in the picture, each person having at least thirty years of teaching—and some fifty years and more. All of the sisters who have served more than thirty years were honored by First Counselor Helen Smith. A special tribute was also given to every sister who had achieved a one-hundred per cent record in her visiting teaching and in attendance at her meetings. Second Counselor Florence Lamb and Secretary Treasurer Zelma Clayson were in charge of refreshments. At the time of the convention we did not have a stake visiting teacher message leader, but we are now fully organized."

135

--- PAGE 134 (PDF page 141) ---
FEBRUARY 1963

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Panguitch Stake (Utah) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference Sessions, March 18, 1962

Organist Nina Steele is seated at the piano at the far right; chorister Iletta D. Reid stands at the right on the second row.

Eva N. Dalton, President, Panguitch Stake Relief Society, reports that the Singing Mothers presented the following selections: "When Mothers Sing," "My Prayer for Today," "Home," and "Thanks Be to God."

"Practicing for this performance was done largely in the wards. Ward choristers and organists were instructed by stake leaders at stake leadership meetings. Ward leaders then spent many hours with their choruses practicing within their own wards. Only two practices on a stake basis were required for this performance."

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Manchester Stake (England), Rochdale Ward Visiting Teachers Honored At Opening Social, September 24, 1962

Front row, seated, left to right: Shirley Tiffany; Edith Kenworthy; Jessie Withington, Work Director Counselor; Elsie Wortley, President; Mary Woodruff, former president, Manchester Stake Relief Society; Olive Teale, Education Counselor; Maureen Hoyle; Irene Webber.

Back row, standing, left to right: Kathleen Kenworthy; Vera Shore; Mary McQuade; Jean Caffrey; Monica Robinson; Lillian Fountain; Elsie Butler; Eileen Thompson; Dorothy Woodhead, Secretary-Treasurer.

Sister Woodruff reports: "The visiting teachers of the Rochdale Ward maintained the lead position in the stake in visiting teaching throughout the year. In their honor a chicken dinner was served to twenty-nine Relief Society sisters. A program followed the dinner, and a film on visiting teaching was shown."

Dorothy Thorpe is the new president of Manchester Stake Relief Society.

136

--- PAGE 135 (PDF page 142) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

THEOLOGY • The Doctrine and Covenants

Lesson 48 — Give Heed to Warnings and Trifle Not with Sacred Things

Elder Roy W. Doxey

(Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 63:22-66)

For First Meeting, May 1963

Objective: To realize that to redeem Zion peaceful means were to be used; that wars would plague the world until the Savior comes; that there would come a time of peace during the millennium; and to know the seriousness of blaspheming sacred things.

Will and Commandment

The center place for the city of Zion (Jackson County, Missouri) had been designated by revelation. Members of the Church desired to know what they should do in relationship to it; therefore the Lord made known his purposes to his saints. They were to gather to that place if they desired to do the will of the Lord. As stated in verses 22 and 23 of Section 63, they were not to consider this a commandment. The Lord gives revelation for the benefit of all who will obey, but he knows that some members, if commanded in all things, will bring condemnation on themselves by disobedience. Consequently, in this revelation, he leaves it up to the individual to obey his will or not to obey. Those who love the Lord will obey his will as if it were a commandment. (Matt. 7:21; D & C 84:44-45; D & C Commentary, page 378.)

Mysteries As Blessings

Latter-day Saints know that to meddle in the things which have not been revealed brings disappointment and sometimes loss of faith in fundamental beliefs. Speculation does not contribute to salvation. Rationalization of the scriptures may destroy faith. There are mysteries of the kingdom which may be known by all who seek in faith. (Alma 12:9-11.) These revealed truths further one's salvation, for they are essential to soul-growth. As one learns the truth contained in the revelations, it becomes "a well of living water, springing up unto everlasting life" (D & C 63:23; John 4:10-14). It should be clear that individuals differ in their knowledge of gospel truths and the

137