[Vol50 | January | Magazine Page 56 | PDF Page 59]
[Title: Features for the Home]

--- PAGE 55 (PDF page 58) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

THEOLOGY • The Doctrine and Covenants

Lesson 47 — The Sign Seeker

Elder Roy W. Doxey

(Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 63:1-21)

For First Meeting, April 1963

Objective: To learn that the person of faith is justified by the Lord, but the sign seeker is condemned by the Lord.

Background

THE Prophet took leave of Missouri where he had received new revelation dealing with the founding of Zion, the city of God, and numerous matters relating to the gathering of the saints. Arriving in Kirtland the Prophet wrote:

In these infant days of the Church, there was a great anxiety to obtain the word of the Lord upon every subject that in any way concerned our salvation; and as the land of Zion was now the most important temporal object in view, I enquired of the Lord for further information upon the subject of the gathering of the Saints, and the purchase of the land, and other matters, and received the following [Section 63] (DHC 1:207).

Wickedness and Rebellion

Section 63 begins with the call for the saints to listen, to open their hearts to a revelation of the Lord's word. (D & C 63:1.) All men should understand that God is angry with the wicked. Some members of the Church may be classed as stiffnecked (stubborn) and unbelieving as well as those who have not made covenant with the Savior.

The Lord's displeasure is also shown toward the rebellious. Rebellion against God's law makes a person wicked. Such people willfully defy God after knowing his will toward them. This was true of Lucifer and the third part of the hosts of heaven. (Ibid., 29:36-37.)

King Benjamin in "The Book of Mormon taught that rebellion against teachings received brought a withdrawal of the Spirit. (See Mosiah 2:36-38.) The rebellious are condemned because of their having accepted gospel principles and then having disobeyed them. Greater responsibilities bring greater blessings, but, if not carried out, they bring greater condemnations. (D & C 1:2-3; 82:3.) The degree of condemnation is dependent upon the nature of the disobedience and the light enjoyed by the member.

57

--- PAGE 56 (PDF page 59) ---
JANUARY 1963

The Lord's Power
God's power is understood when men realize that he controls life and is able to cast men into hell. The wicked and rebellious, knowing that they have flaunted the Maker, are fearful that death may overtake them. The ever-present question is, "What will be my situation after death?" God can do all things even to destroying the world, as well as "to cast the soul down to hell" (D & C 63:34).

The unrepentant will not escape the Lord's wrath:

Behold, I, the Lord, utter my voice, and it shall be obeyed.

Wherefore, verily I say, let the wicked take heed, and let the rebellious fear and tremble; and let the unbelieving hold their lips, for the day of wrath shall come upon them as a whirlwind, and all flesh shall know that I am God (Ibid., 63:5-6).

In like manner the revelations describe the condition of those who do not hearken to the Lord's message. (Ibid., 84:95-102; 50:37.)

On the other hand, the Prophet Joseph Smith says that blessings of a celestial nature await those who obey the Lord's voice:

... God has in reserve a time, or period appointed in His own bosom, when He will bring all His subjects, who have obeyed His voice and kept His commandments, into His celestial rest. This rest is of such perfection and glory, that man has need of a preparation before he can, according to the laws of that kingdom, enter it and enjoy its blessings. This being the fact, God has given certain laws to the human family, which, if observed, are sufficient to prepare them to inherit His rest (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 54).

Signs Shall Be Seen
As one evidence of the last days, signs are to be seen. Many types of natural phenomena are mentioned in scriptures. The ones generally known are those which are to appear in the heavens, such as the sun darkening and the moon turning into blood. (D & C 29:14; 34:9; 45:42; 88:87.) Other ocular signs will be observed. (Ibid., 29:14; Pearl of Great Price, Moses 7:61.) But these are not the only signs predicted for these times.

There are those who desire to have some visual demonstration, such as a miracle, to evidence the existence of God, of the divinity of his Church, of the divine calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the truth of the principles of the gospel.

One desire for some "tangible" evidence of the work of the Lord in our times is the belief that the gold plates of The Book of Mormon should be on display for those who want to "know" that Joseph Smith had plates of ancient origin. These plates, if put on exhibit, would not give evidence of the truth of The Book of Mormon to those who would not accept that scripture on faith or seek for the testimony of the Spirit. Great faith would still be required to believe that these particular plates were of ancient origin or that the characters were what the Prophet claimed them to be. Disputations would probably not cease concerning these claims. Men are not converted to the gospel by such visual demonstrations. The Lord does not give man such demonstrable evidence to convert him. Faith continues as the principle to test man's allegiance to God and the only way that the rich blessings may be enjoyed.

58

--- PAGE 57 (PDF page 60) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

(Hebrews 11:1.) The testimony of the witnesses to The Book of Mormon condemns those who reject that testimony. (D & C 5:10-20.)

The Lord has given evidences or signs that men may understand his purposes, but these may not be so apparent to the person who is not looking for these evidences. The missionary calls signs to the attention of his hearer, such as evidence that these are the days when men are called to repentance for the last time. (D & C 33:2-3; 39:17; 43:28; 90:2.) What are some of these signs? Among several which might be mentioned, these three stand out significantly: (1) the coming forth of The Book of Mormon. As the old Testament prophets predicted many details about this volume, they indicated that men should know of God's work in the last days by the fulfillment of such prophecies. (Isaiah, Chapter 29; Ezek. 37:16-20.) Associated with this first sign to give evidence of The Book of Mormon is the second one; (2) the gathering of Israel, particularly the Jewish portion. (Isaiah 29:17-19, 22-23; Ezek. 37:21-28.) One of the remarkable historical events of our times is the return of the Lord's ancient covenant people, Judah, to the land of their inheritance. The establishment of this one nation, Israel, in Palestine, in 1948, serves to remind all people that with the return of Judah to the holy land, God is remembering his people as prophesied. (Jeremiah 31:31, 33; 2 Nephi 20:29-31.) He is remembering not only Judah, but others of the tribes of Israel, especially Joseph — the Indians, and also the Latter-day Saints who have been gathered from the nations. (1 Nephi 19:13-16.) (3) The third sign — a definite sign of the last days — is that of the wars, rumors of war and preparations for, together with disease, earthquakes, famines, floods, and other natural calamities that are so evident on the earth today. (Lesson 30, Relief Society Magazine, December 1960.) These three signs are some of the Lord's ways of letting man know that now is the time to repent, and that these signs are to help in man's conversion to the fulness of the gospel.

Sign Seekers in the Church

When Section 63 was received in August 1831, there were members who had come into the Church seeking signs, as there are probably some today who expect some miracle to convince them further of the truth. Concerning these members the Lord gave verses 7-12 of Section 63.

The Lord is not pleased with those who seek signs to convince them of the truth. Signs shall follow, but not always the kind of sign desired. They may be in the form of judgments because of wickedness. Those who sought for a sign in the time of Christ were classified as an evil and adulterous generation. (Matthew 12:39.) Sign-seekers show a lack of faith in God and, therefore, the desired sign is not forthcoming to their salvation.

Sign-Seekers, Some Examples

Some notable examples of sign-seekers are found in The Book of Mormon. Lacking in faith they

59

--- PAGE 58 (PDF page 61) ---
JANUARY 1963

sought some visual demonstration of God's power as a convincing sign. Several centuries before Jesus' birth a Nephite named Sherem denied that there would be a Christ as Jacob, son of Lehi, and other prophets had declared. Like many modern doubters, including men of religious profession, it was claimed that "no man knoweth of such things; for he cannot tell of things to come" (Jacob 7:7). Jacob bore a solemn witness that prophecy from a prophet of God is true and that Christ would come to the earth, but Sherem demanded a sign. (Ibid., 7:11-13; read also 14-21.)

Another example of one who denied prophecy and the coming of Christ was Korihor. The prophet replied to his request for a sign that there is a God as follows:

Thou hast had signs enough; will ye tempt your God? Will ye say, Show unto me a sign, when ye have the testimony of all these thy brethren, and also all the holy prophets? The scriptures are laid before thee, yea, and all things denote there is a God; yea, even the earth, and all things that are upon the face of it, yea, and its motion, yea, and also all the planets which move in their regular form do witness that there is a Supreme Creator (Alma 30:44).

An Important Principle

This reply, with other experiences, emphasizes an important principle based upon the fact that God is no respecter of persons and that all men must acknowledge the Lord gives the same signs to all men, but if they receive a sign without faith, it will be to condemnation.

For the faithful member of the Church there may be many "signs" received, if asked in humility and for the person's good unto the glory of God. (1 John 3:22.) Signs come by faith which brings forth righteous deeds. Men may develop faith by greater and continued acts of righteousness.

The signs received by the humble saint are blessings received from the Holy Ghost. (D & C Section 40; Lesson 32, Relief Society Magazine, February 1961.) These blessings are intended principally to prevent the member from being deceived, although they may serve to strengthen faith and bless with the power of God.

The miracle as an instrument of conversion was never intended in the gospel. It has become axiomatic with Latter-day Saints that the person converted by the miracle may require a miracle to keep him in the Church.

President Brigham Young declared:

... When the voice of the Good Shepherd is heard, the honest in heart believe and receive it. It is good to taste with the inward taste, to see with the inward eyes, and to enjoy with the sensations of the ever-living spirit. No person, unless he is an adulterer, a fornicator, covetous, or an idolator, will ever require a miracle; in other words, no good, honest person ever will (Journal of Discourses 8:42).

Sins Revealed

When the sign or miracle is granted to the faithful member of the Church for his personal benefit and the glory of God, that sign attests to the fact that the spiritual gifts are a part of the gospel. Due to darkness of mind and sin, some members desire evidence of God's existence or the truth of the Church

60