[Vol50 | April | Magazine Page 268 | PDF Page 283]
[Title: Stately for Silence]

--- PAGE 267 (PDF page 282) ---
Strictly for Silence

Dorothy Clapp Robinson

[ILLUSTRATION: Woman doing laundry with washing machine while holding a child, with another child nearby]

TISH, short for Letitia, Haworth, was hurt, deeply hurt. She was never going to open her mouth again. Her new neighbor down the street had deliberately invited her to mind her own business; and all she had said was that he must not yell at his sweet wife. She was trying to help him put up a clothesline, and he had yelled at her like a—a—well, Tish had heard the coarse words and — who could help . . . ? And then, to add insult to injury, Irene, Tish's daughter, had agreed with the man.

"After all, Mother, it wasn't any of your business. The wife was the one to protest."

And she might have added, "You try to dictate too much."

Oh, yes, that is what they all thought. Well, she was through defending people. From here on she was minding Tish Haworth's business — strictly for silence, as her granddaughter would say, and that wife was such a sweet person.

Now her washer wouldn't work. She had had company over the week end and most of her bed linen was in the hamper.

Tish called the repair man. He

269

--- PAGE 268 (PDF page 283) ---
APRIL 1963

would certainly be there just as soon as he could, tomorrow or next day at the latest.

She bit her lip. If any repair man thought she was going to let soiled clothes sit around that long, he had another think coming. She could take the clothes to Irene's, but she wasn't going to.

She could go to a washateria. She chose one from the telephone book, the one farthest from her home. She did not know anyone in that section of town, and, among strangers, she would not be tempted to talk.

It was early when Tish arrived at the washateria, and there was but one person ahead of her. There was no attendant visible. It was a large room with two rows of washers, back to back, running down the center of the room. Against the inner wall were a half dozen driers. Two sides of the room had windows looking out on a parking space. By one window was a mangle with a chair before it. There was one other chair and a bench. These, besides a coin changing box and a pop vending machine, made up the furnishings of the room.

The lone occupant of the room, a gray-haired woman, was putting a hand-pieced quilt in a big washer. She barely nodded when Tish said "Good morning."

As Tish sorted her own clothes, she watched that quilt. The dear old grandmother who had pieced it would turn over in her grave could she see her handiwork being stuffed into a washer. But Tish was not going to tell her the quilt might be ruined.

Another woman came in. She looked so fresh and friendly, Tish

turned away her gaze. If she spoke to that woman she would be lost.

Three married girls came in, all in cotton house dresses, and they were too interested in each other to be courteous. Two more women. Still Tish kept silent.

WHEN Tish's washers were nearing the end of the cycle, a soldier in greasy fatigues came in and picked a tub directly across from her. He dumped an overflowing basket of clothes into the tub. That was more than Tish could stand.

"You shouldn't," she cried, hurrying around to his side.

"Shouldn't what?" he asked.

"Put those greasy overalls in with your white clothes. Just look at this lovely blouse."

"It won't hurt them," one of the girls said. She looked boldly at the soldier. He gave her a brief glance, then turned to Tish.

"Would you mind showing me how to do it?"

"Would she mind! Tish began sorting his clothes, making two loads of them.

"Wife usually does this," the soldier apologized, "but she is in the hospital."

Tish was all sympathy. "Has she been very ill?"

"Nope," the boy grinned. "A boy, and you should see the size of his fists already." He dumped half a box of detergent into one washer. Tish grabbed the box and shut off the water.

"My goodness. That was more than enough for three loads." She used her hands to scoop out some of the detergent and put it in the

270

--- PAGE 269 (PDF page 284) ---
STRICTLY FOR SILENCE

second tub. The girls laughed among themselves.

"Say," the soldier asked when the tubs were spinning, "would you mind watching these dohinkies for me? I'll take a quick run down to the hospital. I'll be back before they quit whirling."

"Do you want them dried?" Tish asked.

"Oh, sure." He fished some coins from a pocket and put them in her hand.

The girls laughed again, but Tish ignored them. The woman with the quilt was putting it in a drier. Poor quilt!

Presently an old car stopped before the window. A young man jerked a basket of clothes from the back of the car. He came in and slammed it down before the last washer in the row, then went out for two more. His wife followed him in, pushing a cart in which was a young boy and a small girl clinging to it. She was pregnant. Without a word the husband went out and tires squealed as his car started.

"My, my," one of the girls said in a stage whisper, "wouldn't you love living with him?"

The wife seemed to pay no attention. She stooped for a basket, then dropped it.

Tish was waiting beside the soldier's loads. "That is too heavy for you," she called. "Let me lift it."

"Thanks," the girl answered, "I was trying to avoid stooping." A tear ran down her cheek. She brushed it away quickly. "Oh, he forgot his lunch." She pointed to a sack resting on one of the baskets.

"Maybe he will remember and come back."

"Not when he is in this mood. He will go without and be crosser than ever when he gets home." She whispered the words.

TISH swallowed a quick remembrance. Hugh had had his moments during the early years of their married life. She had learned not to force an issue, and he had learned to give a little — only a little, to be honest about it, but they had had a wonderfully happy life. She started to tell the young wife, but stopped. She was not mixing in any family affair again.

"I'm Tish Haworth," she said, "what is your name?"

"Lola." That was all.

Tish looked carefully at Lola. She had been and still could be a very lovely girl. Everything about her and the children was clean and neat. She wore a blue checked smock and a very blue skirt. Tish's resolve weakened.

"I take it," she spoke casually, as she helped load the washers, "your husband was upset about something."

Lola's mouth hardened. "He never thinks of anyone but himself."

"So?" Tish glanced about. The soldier's washers had quit spinning, but there was no empty drier. The three married girls had left, and others had taken their places. One woman was putting a load in with one hand and reading a movie magazine held in the other hand. She neither spoke nor was spoken to.

The young boy was screaming. "Push him back and forth, Darlene." Lola spoke softly to her

271

--- PAGE 270 (PDF page 285) ---
little daughter. "I'll take him in a few minutes." She turned to Tish. "This is the way the days go. Carl takes the car to work, and I can't get outside the door without both babies tugging at me. Darlene isn't old enough to walk as far as the park. I'd like to hear something besides baby prattle for a change."

"Will you have to wait for Carl to pick you up?"

"No. I'll walk home. It isn't far, and he will pick up the clothes on his way home from work. Some day they are going to be stolen before he gets here."

"I won't, I won't," Tish repeated under her breath. She took the soldier's clothes and set the basket down before a drier. The gray-haired woman had dried her quilt and was, of all things, pressing it on the mangle. Tish put the basket of clothes in the drier and then returned to Lola. She looked again at the woman with the quilt.

"Why don't you take my car and take Carl's lunch to him?"

LOLA just stared, but a man across the row of washers turned to his wife. "Ginny, did you hear that? Offers her car to a stranger."

"She must be a wonderful person, Ben," the wife answered softly.

Tish heard and a warm glow washed over her body. She took her key ring from her purse and offered it to Lola. The girl shrank back.

"Go on. It is the blue one," and Tish pointed to it through the window.

"Oh, I wouldn't think of taking your car. You don't know me. Besides. . . ." She glanced at the

washers and then at the children. Her face came alive.

"No." Tish stopped her words. "The babies will stay here with me."

"I'll have your car, and you will have my babies." Lola tried to sound facetious. "Why should you be so good to me?" She wanted to protest, but wanted more to use the car.

The cool indifference of the woman with the quilt might have had something to do with it, so might the trio of giggling girls, or any number of other things, but all Tish said was, "I know how men are when they are hungry."

Lola hugged her and in a tone that had risen several octaves said, "I haven't been in a real car for so long I have forgotten when." Then, as swishingly as her shape allowed, she was gone.

"Lady," Ben spoke up, "if you had made me that offer I would willingly have left you all these dirty clothes for collateral."

Ginny looked across at the children. "If she doesn't come back you will have the best of the bargain."

Tish noted the wistful look on Ginny's face. Ben reached and patted her awkwardly.

"You will never see your car again," another voice cried.

Already Tish was feeling a little squeamish. Another of her wild impulses, Irene would say. But she had no time to worry. With three different washings and two children, she had her hands and mind full. For the next hour she filled driers, folded clothes, and tried to pacify children.

272