[Vol50 | August | Magazine Page 561 | PDF Page 584]
[Title: Frontispiece / From Near and Far]

--- PAGE 560 (PDF page 583) ---
From Near and Far

I really enjoy The Relief Society Magazine, and it comes in very handy in our missionary work. Thanks very much for your attention and help.
—Elder Michael C. Kenyon
Quilmes, Argentina

We enjoy our Magazine so very much. It is so beautiful with the color, the wonderful articles and stories, and the pictures in the Notes From the Field, together with the messages from the General Authorities of the Church and the General Board of Relief Society.
—Charlotte M. Burleigh
President
Woodruff Stake Relief Society
Evanston, Wyoming

I surely enjoyed "Let's Have a Bake Party" in the March issue of the Magazine (by Mary S. Kemp); also, I enjoyed "Sewing Success" by Helen Lach, as I do a lot of sewing. "Ribbons and Roses" (page 204) was used for a project in our work meeting. I copied that whole issue. It was so colorful and interesting.
—Mrs. Violet B. Coletti
Alexandria, Virginia

I enjoy very much the recipes and the sewing tips, but it would be difficult to single out any one feature of the Magazine as being best.
—Breta Hiate
Salem, Oregon

The Relief Society Magazine is one of our good missionary tools. By leaving the Magazine with one of our contacts, or with a friend who is ill, and pointing out two or three special articles in the Magazine that will interest her, she becomes interested and welcomes us when we come back.
—Elder and Sister Stanley Adams
Sydney, Nova Scotia
Canada

Since coming to Australia on a mission, I have heard many wonderful comments from members and nonmembers in regard to The Relief Society Magazine. I had a note from a nonmember investigator which said, "I was so interested I had to read it through before turning off the lights. It is a good, well-balanced publication." At a meeting in Sydney, a little elderly lady said she had been a subscriber for thirty years, and never once had a Magazine been late or gone astray. We appreciate your thoughtfulness in sending the publication to us as a proselyting tool.
—Vivian Coombs
President
Australian Mission
Relief Society

So many of the features in the Magazine are outstanding, and many bring back poignant memories of my girlhood, but the one I like especially is the feature page "From Near and Far." After I have looked at the beautiful cover, I have to admire the frontispiece, then I eagerly read the messages from the other sisters — almost like a personal visit with the many members of the world-wide sisterhood.
—Elda L. Haycock
Hagerman, Idaho

I wish to thank you for the most inspirational Magazine. I love and appreciate it and enjoy reading the stories and lessons each month. In fact, I wait each month for the new Magazine to come. As a young girl, I started reading the stories in my mother's Magazine, and since then I have found it hard to leave the copies alone. I am impressed with each visiting teacher message. Each one is just what I need at the time. It is a joy to present such wonderful lessons and messages. The Magazine is giving me a rich and wonderful education and helps to build my testimony.
—Mrs. Charlotte Elliott
Livermore, California

562

--- PAGE 561 (PDF page 584) ---
The Relief Society Magazine

AUGUST 1963    VOLUME 50    NUMBER 8

Editor: Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor: Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager: Belle S. Spafford

Special Features
564  Relief Society — A Blessing to Young Women  Belva Barlow
568  He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith —
     Part III  President Wilford Woodruff  Preston Nibley
578  Part of the Fragrance  Anne G Hansen
589  The Second Mile  Ruth L. Jones

Fiction
570  The Missing Papers  Dorothy Clapp Robinson
580  Somebody Cares  Betty Lou M. Smith
603  Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 2  Rosa Lee Lloyd

General Features
562  From Near and Far
577  Woman's Sphere  Ramona W. Cannon
586  Editorial: The Power of Example  Louise W. Madsen
588  Notes to the Field:
     The Relief Society Annual General Conference
     Visual Aid Packet Available for 1963-64 Literature Lessons
609  Notes From the Field  Hulda Parker
640  Birthday Congratulations

The Home - Inside and out
591  Peach-Stone Jelly  Mary L. Allred
591  Clear Up Sewing Clutter  Shirley Thulin
592  Stretching the Food Budget  Part I — Dry Milk  Marion Bennion and Sadie O. Morris
596  Versatile Cottage Cheese  Margaret F. Maxwell
598  Felt Bootees for Baby  Audrey King
601  Hints for a Happy Day  Janet W. Breeze
602  Martha B. Anderson Makes Afghans of Original Designs

Lessons for November
616  Theology — "Ye Are on the Lord's Errand"  Roy W. Doxey
622  Visiting Teacher Messages - "Wherefore, If Ye Believe Me...."  Christine H. Robinson
623  Work Meeting — Planning for the Future  Virginia F. Cutler
625  Literature — Huck Finn's Initiation Into Truth  Briant S. Jacobs
632  Social Science — The Organization of the Church  Ariel S. Ballif

Poetry
561  Seascape — Frontispiece  Margery S. Stewart
     Prodigal Son's Mother, by Pauline Bell, 567; Brilliance, by Catherine B. Bowles, 576;
     The Willow Tree, by Alice Morrey Bailey, 585; Terns, by Claire Noall, 585; The Canyon
     Water Front, by Anna B. Hart, 589; Signs, by Ida Elaine James, 590; Art Exhibit, by
     Dorothy J. Roberts, 637; Sunset Art, by Pearle M. Olsen, 638; Street Lights, by Vesta
     N. Fairbairn, 639; Summer, by Leora Larsen, 638; Friend, by Lottie H. Singley, 640.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints © 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654 Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires No back numbers can be supplied Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed Report change of address at once, giving old and new address Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879 Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918 Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts

--- PAGE 562 (PDF page 585) ---
RELIEF SOCIETY

A Blessing to Young Women

Belva Barlow
Member, General Board of Relief Society

Children are what their mothers are.
No fondest father's fondest care
Can fashion so the infant heart.
—Walter Savage Landor

IF THE above quotation is true, how necessary it is for us, as Relief Society sisters, to prepare ourselves for this noble calling of motherhood. And if, as is stated, the first five or six years are the most significant in determining a person's character, then proper early guidance of a child is of extreme importance. President Brigham Young stated that "The mothers are the moving instruments in the hands of Providence to guide the destinies of nations." And in this light we should evaluate our present or future tasks as homemaker, wife, and mother. Because the future lies in the hands of the young, it is to the young women of the Church that I address myself.

Young women have always played a significant part in shaping the destinies of mankind; young women made the long and arduous voyage with an unknown future to the "New World" in answer to their husbands' cries "for freedom; young women endured the rigors and privations of the cold New England winters with the barest of necessities; they moved westward across the Appalachians into a wild, lonely country and lived in the shadow of death from cold, hunger, or illness; later yet, for their faith, they made the perilous trek over mountains and plains to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, leaving loved ones buried back along the trail. These are but a few examples of how young women have met the challenges of their days. We can and must meet the challenges of our day. The victor's crown is the same; only the setting changes.

Emerson said, "Success treads on every right step." Of all women, we in the Church should take the "right" steps, and for this purpose the Relief Society was organized. President Joseph F. Smith said the Relief Society would be a great organization when the young women of the Church would join it.

We want the young women, the intelligent women, women of faith, of courage and of purity to be associated with the Relief Societies of the various stakes and wards of Zion. We want them to take hold of this work with vigor, with intelligence and unitedly, for the building up of Zion and the instruction of women

564

--- PAGE 563 (PDF page 586) ---
RELIEF SOCIETY — A BLESSING TO YOUNG WOMEN

in their duties — domestic duties, public duties, and every duty that may devolve upon them (Gospel Doctrine, 1956 Edition, page 387).

I think it can as truthfully be said that the young women of the Church will be great when they place themselves in a position to receive the blessings available through participation in the Society.

WHEN a group of sisters went to the Prophet in 1842 with a constitution and by-laws for the purpose of establishing a ladies' society, the Prophet stated that the constitution and by-laws were the best he had ever seen. He then continued, "But this is not what you want. Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord, and He has something better for them than a written constitution" (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 14).

On March 17, 1842, the Prophet organized the Relief Society "after a pattern of the priesthood." In April of that year, the Prophet again met with the sisters and on that occasion said:

This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosom.

If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates (DHC IV, page 605).

The Prophet's appraisal of woman's nature strikes a responsive chord in each of us. He did not say that charity and benevolence are the nature of married women only, or of elderly women only, or of young women only. Such characteristics apply to all women — single girls, brides, mothers, and grandmothers. It is according to our natures, if we cultivate it, to have compassion, to love truth, to appreciate beauty, to love all children, and to be kind, generous, thoughtful, and honest. To reach perfection in these qualities, I readily agree, requires intense effort and vigilance. Though it is not easy, we are blessed to have innate urgings in this direction.

The journey of life is a most exciting one, but it is fraught with many difficulties. Relief Society is an important vehicle, organized under divine inspiration, to help us make this journey successfully. For a woman to embark on this trip of life without the aid of Relief Society can be likened to journeying hundreds of miles on foot rather than using modern means of transportation. Such a person might weary and never reach her destination, or, if she does, she might be much the worse for wear. And yet many young women today are embarking on this all-important journey of life "on foot."

THE Relief Society was founded to help us shape our lives and the lives of our loved ones while young; it was established to make the journey back to our Father in heaven pleasant and rewarding and, in large measure, to assure our "arrival." President Brigham Young told the sisters that

... these societies are for the improvement of our manners, our dress, our habits and our methods of living. ... Can you

565