[Vol50 | August | Magazine Page 625 | PDF Page 648]
[Title: Literature — Huck Finn's Initiation Into Truth]

--- PAGE 624 (PDF page 647) ---
AUGUST 1963

deed the restraints of Mark Twain himself, at least on the surface level, that its sensitive, large and vigorous heart surges and swells the novel into its unquestioned greatness and vitality.

Geppetto's Pinocchio, Huck miraculously turns himself from a rather inconsequential stage prop into a "real live boy." Once Huck found himself created and alive on the page, almost literally he wrenched the pen from Twain's fingers and wrote his own story himself.

Twain never seemed to realize the significance of what had happened. His 1876 burst of initial creative energy took him through chapter XVI; then, after at least three years' hesitation, during which his deep well of the unconscious flowed still once more, he continued writing; but now Huck himself was fully aware of his own identity, the moral dilemma which faced him, and how he would resolve it. This informed sureness of the great middle section never seemed to impress Twain to any recorded degree, for he felt his greatest work was his documented, wooden Joan of Arc, which he wrote more than ten years later.

The novel Huckleberry Finn is very loosely organized. It consists of a series of episodes or adventures which happen to Huck and Nigger Jim. The two strongest unifying elements are Huckleberry Finn, who tells the story, and the Mississippi River, which symbolizes the peace and freedom which Huck and Nigger Jim seek, at the same time providing the physical means for escaping from one adventure to the next.

HUCK'S "AMERICAN LANGUAGE"

The major source of this novel's power is its extremely successful "illusion of reality," its ability to make the reader become Huck by absorbing Huck's world through his eyes and ears and, most intimately, through his untrammeled conscience and sense of values. The miracle of Huck's creation is the spontaneous zest for life which Twain has caught through his use of words alone. Huck is so vital, so throbbing with life, that we become him. Through the magic pronoun "I" we are transmitted out of our own present selves and "popped" inside Huck's skin. From inside Huck we hear through his ears, peep out through his eyes, and above all feel ourselves through his mouth.

Yet it is not merely the pronoun "I" which creates this sense of reality. Twain endeavored to make his fiction an exact transcript of life, and it is what and how the "I" speaks that makes the character of Huck so authentic.

The following account of a child's loneliness as he fights to maintain his own identity under a deluge of attacks from that incomprehensible world which is dominated by adults, rings as true in its tone as in its revelations of the patterns of Huck's mind. Miss Watson, "a tolerable slim old maid, with goggles on," is attempting to "sivilize" the homeless waif for his own good.

. . . Miss Watson would say, "Don't put your feet up there, Huckleberry"; and "Don't scrunch up like that, Huckleberry—set up straight"; and pretty soon she would say, "Don't gap and stretch like that, Huckleberry — why don't you try

626

--- PAGE 648 --- ERROR: Error code: 400 - {'type': 'error', 'error': {'type': 'invalid_request_error', 'message': 'Output blocked by content filtering policy'}, 'request_id': 'req_011CYrcgmnDnpAhUDDWzi9CY'}

--- PAGE 649 --- ERROR: Error code: 400 - {'type': 'error', 'error': {'type': 'invalid_request_error', 'message': 'Output blocked by content filtering policy'}, 'request_id': 'req_011CYrciiMtr9rFnuKQZSpTW'}

--- PAGE 627 (PDF page 650) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

into becoming their servants while they plot new methods of exploiting the trusting gullibility of the inhabitants of the next village. When they learn that a local farmer, Peter Wilks, has died, and that his brother is expected momentarily to claim his fortune, they pretend to be the long-lost brother and his attendant, bilk the innocent daughters of their rightful inheritance, sell Nigger Jim for cash, and are about ready to escape when Huck exposes them and in shame at the disgraceful levels to which humans will stoop, witnesses their capture by indignant citizens who ride them out of town on a rail. Huck goes to the Phelps farm to help Tom Sawyer "rescue" Nigger Jim, which they manage to accomplish in a most elaborate and extended intrigue, only to discover that Miss Watson freed Nigger Jim in her will just before she died. Realizing that Mrs. Phelps intends now to civilize him, just as the Widow Douglas and Miss Watson had intended before, Huck states his intention of running past the frontier into free territory "because Aunt Sally she's going to adopt me and sivilize me, and I can't stand it. I been there before."

HUCK'S EMERGING DEFINITION OF MAN

Because Huck had no one to force him to conform to the rules of society and culture, he wore no shoes, attended no school, and spent his days doing what pleased him most. He could thus stand outside society and evaluate it, using as his sole basis for judgment his own common sense and his own spontaneous moral values. Though Huck himself runs away from the Widow Douglas to escape from her world of artificiality and the demands of society, he still has to learn from Nigger Jim the human compassion and love which ideally bind human beings together.

In an effort to relieve the peaceful monotony of life on the raft, Huck tries to persuade Jim that they have not been separated, when, in actuality, a fog had caused Huck to become lost in the canoe while Jim, bucking rough water, almost went down on the raft, sick with worry that Huck was lost or drowned. When Nigger Jim finally sees that Huck had been teasing him about a matter so grave as his own death, he says to him,

"... When I got all wore out wid work, an wid de callin' for you, en went to sleep, my heart wuz mos' broke bekase you wuz los', en I didn' k'yer no' mo' what become er me en de raf'. En when I wake up en fine you back agin, all safe en soun', de tears come, en I could' a' got down on my knees en kiss yo' foot, I's so thankful. En all you wuz thinkin' 'bout wuz how you could make a fool uv ole Jim wid a lie. Dat truck dah is trash; en trash is what people is dat puts dirt on de head er dey fren's en makes 'em ashamed."

Then he got up slow and walked to the wigwam, and went in there without saying anything but that. But that was enough. It made me feel so mean I could almost kissed his foot to get him to take it back.

It was fifteen minutes before I could work myself up to go and humble myself to a nigger; but I done it, and I warn't ever sorry for it afterward, neither. I didn't do him no more mean tricks, and I wouldn't done that one if I'd 'a' knowed it would make him feel that way (Ibid., page 136).

Thus Huck is shamed out of his own falseness in his relations with

629