[Vol50 | March | Magazine Page 164 | PDF Page 175]
[Title: The Law of Obedience]

--- PAGE 163 (PDF page 174) ---
Obedience

Member, General Board of Relief Society

only some of the commandments? Can we choose to pay tithing and fail to keep the Sabbath Day holy? Can we as parents and leaders teach our children to keep the Sabbath Day holy if we attend our meetings only once in awhile? Can we teach our children obedience to God's commandments if we obey only a portion of them? Can we obtain the promised blessings to the faithful if we take the liberty to justify or rationalize some of the things we do because someone else breaks the law a little, or keeps only part of the Lord's commandments? The Lord will not judge us by others but only by ourselves and what we do.

"If ye love me, keep my commandments," and if we do this for no other reason save he commanded it, we will be well along the road to immortality and eternal life. Then the windows of heaven will be opened and the blessings of heaven poured out so greatly that we will be unable to contain them.

Let us look at the history of mankind and see what has happened when man ceases to obey. Look at the Israelites, the chosen people of God. After they were delivered from bondage, they forgot to keep his commandments and were forced to wander forty years in the wilderness to prepare themselves to enter into the promised land.

Nephi, by obedience, was taught many things to enable his people to reach their promised land: the procuring of the sacred plates, the building of the ship, the sustaining of life during the trek through the wilderness. Also in our own Book of Mormon we have recorded the appearance of Christ to the people of this great land. He commanded and the people obeyed and peace reigned for 300 years.

Sisters, we have a special obligation to be an example, not only an example of the believers but also of the doers. We have a special assignment in life. "Wherefore . . . take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day. . . ." "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven," I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

ETERNITY

Earth and heaven portray a pattern of ever-changing events, yet never-changing in purpose. God is the same yesterday, today, and always.
—V. Mildred Oyston

165

--- PAGE 164 (PDF page 175) ---
Third Prize-Winning Story

Annual Relief Society

Short Story Contest

STRANGER
AT
NAZARETH

Sylvia Probst Young

[PHOTOGRAPH]

A small breeze soft and gentle stirred among the leaves of the olive trees, and overhead a warm, blue sky lay like a great oval ceiling above the greening earth. It was spring in Nazareth — spring with its peace and flowering beauty touching everything — everything, but Martha's heart. Standing at the window, unaware of the fresh wonder of the day, she knew only the weight of sorrow, overwhelming, pulling her into the dark depths of despair.

"You must try not to grieve so," Lucius had told her with a husband's tender concern. "You must keep yourself well for Lydia's sake."

For Lydia — Martha smiled faintly thinking of her small granddaughter. Lydia was like one ray of bright sunshine in a dark world. For Lydia she must live and try to keep a semblance of the youthful zest that had always been hers.

A door opened then, and Martha turned to see the little Lydia looking up at her. She was a beautiful child, with soft, creamy skin, and deep brown eyes that expressed a kind of wistful longing, sensing a loss that her five years were unable to comprehend.

"You didn't sleep," Martha said, her eyes tender on the child.

The little one shook her head. "I rested with my eyes open, and I played with my Jasamine doll."

Her face was suddenly worried. "Will my mother be coming home today?"

"Not today, Lydia." Her voice was dull, but quietly controlled.

It was the same answer she had given day after day since Lydia had been given to her keeping, but how

166

--- PAGE 165 (PDF page 176) ---
STRANGER AT NAZARETH

could she explain to so young a child? Perhaps when Lydia was older she would understand, but not now.

Leprosy — the very word chilled her to the bone. Fearful and scourging — it meant only heartbreak and misery; coming with an evil venom, destroying not only the aged and sickly, but the young and beautiful as well — Anna — her own lovely Anna — now stricken by its ravishes.

Martha found it hard to go on living, knowing that Anna was an outcast — that Anna could not return. All the money that Lucius and she had in the treasury could not rid Anna of the dreadful disease for which no doctor had found a cure.

Twice she had been to the place of desolation leaving food and clothing and hurrying away, not looking back; it was a living death. Could she have laid Anna in a cool, clean sepulcher, peace would have come at last, but this way there could be no peace — not ever.

Determinedly, she tore her thoughts away from her grief; a little girl stood beside her. Lydia's father was in Jerusalem with the Roman army. Lucius and she must be father and mother to the child.

"Let's go to the mount, Grandmother," the little one implored.

MARTHA nodded. The mount, a low hill behind their home, was a pleasant place for an idle hour. From the mount you could look over the white stone houses of Nazareth basking in the spring sunlight to Mount Tabor and beyond to the Valley of Jezreel. It was a quiet place of retreat which Martha had often sought.

"All right, little one," she consented, "we shall go to the mount."

Together they went to the kitchen to make a lunch, because for Lydia a lunch was the most important part of going to the mount. From a shelf Martha took a small, round basket in which she put a loaf of barley bread, a square of honey comb, and some little fig cakes, covering it with a clean, white napkin. Over the napkin she laid a brown paper on which she placed a bright-colored scarf that she was making and Lydia's Jasamine doll. From a low cot in the dining room she took a soft, blue robe to sit on.

Hand in hand Lydia and she crossed the olive grove and walked along the quiet path to the mount. Pausing a moment, Martha looked back across the wide vineyard, beyond the spacious stone house. Lucius and she were among the most prosperous of Nazareth, but gladly they would have given it all — the flocks and vineyard — the costly home furnishings, to have Anna back.

The mount was green and inviting, with the feel of spring everywhere. By the side of a palm tree Martha laid the woolen robe and they sat down in the warm sunlight. From the basket she took the wooden doll and the fig cakes for Lydia, and her nimble fingers were soon occupied with her handwork. For long moments, there was no sound, and then they heard a footfall.

Martha raised her eyes to see a

167

--- PAGE 166 (PDF page 177) ---
man coming along the path toward them. A tall, well-built, young man, walking slowly as if in meditation, but when he raised his dark eyes Martha gazed in wonder at the face she looked upon. A gentle face it was, a face of wisdom and compassion, not to be forgotten.

The stranger spoke softly. "It's a beautiful day to be here," he said.

Martha was warmed by his friendliness, and awed by his presence, not knowing why.

"We love this little mount," she answered, "and it's so close to home."

HE nodded. "I shall miss Nazareth when I go." There was a note of loneliness in his voice.

It was a leading statement and Martha wanted to ask him why he was leaving, but she didn't. Instead, she invited him to sit there with them for a little while. Something about him seemed strangely familiar. I've seen him before, she thought, but where and when?

Amiably he sat down on the robe beside them, and Martha felt a kind of calming peace in his presence, while Lydia, who made friends with everyone, quickly began talking to the pleasant stranger.

"Look," she said, holding up her wooden doll, "this is Jasmine, but she needs a new dress."

He took the offered toy in gentle hands, touching it lightly.

"How would you like me to make you another like her?" he asked.

"Oh, yes!" Lydia clapped her hands as he drew from a pocket in his tunic a piece of wood about the length of the doll, and a little knife in a leather case.

With deft fingers he guided the knife through the wood, changing it to a figure with a head and arms and legs. The woman and child watched quietly while it seemed that his hands moved almost automatically, his eyes, touched with sadness, seemed to be seeing something far beyond.

In a surprisingly short time the doll was finished, beautifully carved, equally as fine featured as the one it had been made to match.

Lydia was overjoyed. "Now it needs some clothes," she said, holding it up in her hand.

"Yes, I shall make them both a tunic tomorrow," Martha promised.

Lydia was hungry then, so Martha took the food from the basket, and spread it out before them on the white napkin.

Her guest was pleased, and shared the picnic lunch with pleasure.

"I can think of nothing better than the fresh honey comb with a barley loaf," he told her. "The honey — is it from your own bees?"

"Yes," Martha answered, and then she told him of Lucius, and their flocks and vineyard.

"And Lydia," he asked, "does she live with you?"

Martha nodded, while her eyes looked searchingly far away.

"Her father," she said, "is in the army in Jerusalem, and her mother" — her voice was broken — "is a — leper." The word choked her, and she bowed her head to hide the sudden rush of tears.

The young man did not speak, but he laid his gentle hand upon her shoulder, and in that moment a sudden comforting warmth filled Martha's whole being. It was un-

168