[Vol50 | April | Magazine Page 249 | PDF Page 264]
[Title: Lila Bean Walsh Appointed to the General Board]

--- PAGE 248 (PDF page 263) ---
[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of an elderly man riding a bicycle]

Strange Bond
                                                    Thelma Grube

ELLEN was two and spring not yet born when we began to notice the very old man. Each day at precisely the same time he rode precisely by on an English bike. He looked neither to right nor left, up nor down. He looked, as only the very old can look, directly forward into the past. No matter how chill the east wind, nor how hot the west, the old gentleman always wore the same outfit — dark trousers held at one cuff by a bicycle clip, a brown tweed jacket, and a white silk muffler. He wore no hat.

We became so used to the sight of him that each morning at ten

A.M. we would stand at the window and watch him pedal rhythmically past the house. Ellen would yell, "Hi, Man," through the closed windows, then turn and ask, "Where man gone?" Exactly twenty minutes later he would come past for the second time, and the ritual was repeated. By the middle of April, the daily progression of events was a rigid one: "Eat breakfast; kiss Grumpa; Grumpa go work; here come milkman; here come mailman; here come man — Hi, Man!" Then she would practice riding her new tricycle around the large rooms.

When the day arrived for Ellen's

250

--- PAGE 249 (PDF page 264) ---
STRANGE BOND

skill and endurance test on the uneven sidewalk, we all stood by on the lawn, like horse owners at a racetrack, or children at a circus, watching Ellen pedal the trike backward and forward, up and down. A few times she turned the wheel too sharply, the trike tilted, and Ellen spilled onto the pavement. At first she cried with fright, but we stood our ground until she had set herself up right, and from then on whenever the trike turned over, she pouted with annoyance, or laughed at her independence.

That first day we didn't see the old gentleman until he was nearly upon us. Barely had we stiffened at the thought of a possible collision, when Ellen stopped, pulled her trike off to the side and laughed, "Hi, Man!"

Without a sign he had heard, the precise gentleman wheeled precisely by, looking neither left nor right, nor up nor down, and the child, who had never been rebuffed before, watched while he was in sight.

Eventually, Ellen was left to practice by herself, and frequent glances out the window were all we needed to be assured of her safety. The following day, one such glance occurred at just ten A.M. Ellen was absorbed in guiding her trike over a split in the sidewalk, and the old man pedaled past her before she realized he was near. Startled, she yelled, "Hi, Man," then, pushing hard upon the pedals, she started after him, calling, "Wait, Man! Wait minut!"

By the time I reached the sidewalk and looked in their direction, he was out of sight, and Ellen was still pedaling furiously after him. As

I called, she steered into a tree stump and fell.

The small scrape she received from the tree stump needed attention with peroxide and love, so we missed the old gentleman's return trip, but that morning was the beginning. And except for rainy days, when neither the very young nor the very old ventured out, the pattern never varied, but once, all summer — at least not to my firsthand knowledge.

EACH morning, just before ten A.M., Ellen waited at the curb until she saw him coming down the street; then, with every muscle tense and every curl laughing, she scrambled onto her trike and set out to race with him. He passed her shortly (had he slowed down?) and the two of them disappeared for about twenty minutes, the girl bubbling with delight in the race, the old man staring straight ahead with no outward sign of pleasure. At the end of twenty-odd minutes, they would reappear in front of the house. Without turning his head or uttering a word, he stopped and waited. She looked up at him wistfully, still burning with unconsumed energy, but she understood, dismounted the trike, and came into the house. (What is it that passes between the very young and the very old?)

It chanced that one day, our curiosity in supreme control, we quickly sneaked through the backyard hedge and went to call on a neighbor whose house faced the other street. Embarrassed though we were (never having been intimate with the family), we stationed

251

--- PAGE 250 (PDF page 265) ---
APRIL 1963

ourselves at the front window — hardly a moment too soon. For there they came, the skinny old man upon his skinny black bike, and the chubby little girl on her chubby blue trike.

"There they go!" our neighbor commented. "I can't think where Mr. Christopher picks up that child every morning."

"Who?" we asked.

"Why, Mr. Christopher. He boards with Mrs. Prouty over on Eaton Lane. He. . . . Say, that isn't your little girl, is it?"

We admitted that the girl was ours, and that we had been consumed by curiosity about the two of them and what happened once they were out of sight.

At that time our neighbor knew no more than we did. For her the tableau was always the same. Later on in the summer, however, she telephoned to say that Ellen, in trying to avoid a squad car that tipped over on the trike, catching her foot between the pedal extension and the front wheel.

"I never!" our neighbor blurted. "That old man never even looked around. He knew just what happened! He stopped quick as you please and walked back — all straight and proper, mind you — and gentle as you please, he got her foot loose. He took out the whitest handkerchief you ever saw — span clean it was — and wiped her tears. Then he made her walk up and down a minute so as to see if her foot was all right. Took her hand, mind you — him that never even speaks to Mrs. Prouty except when she feeds him liver, and then he only grumbles. Well, pretty soon,

he walks her back to the tricycle and just points at it. She picked it up and got on it, grinning at him sweet as you please. Then she waited until he got set on his bike again and off they went. Did you ever hear of such a thing?"

A few days later, what with molars breaking through and viruses seeking out body weaknesses, Ellen ran a high fever for twenty-four hours. It started late at night, and by morning she was too burned out to move off the couch. At nearly ten A.M. she opened her fever-dulled eyes and breathed, "Where man gone?"

I opened the window wide and watched down the street until I saw him coming. (Had he slowed down, not seeing her ahead on the walk? Yes, he had even stopped, pretending to adjust his pants clip.)

I walked out to the end of our cement path and stood waiting for him to pass. As he drew alongside, eyes straight ahead, I said simply, "She's sick."

(I'm sure he nodded a bit.) From the front window a tiny, weak voice said, "Hi, Man!" (Had a smile flitted across his eyes?) Then the stick figure on wheels rode precisely on down the street.

For the rest of the summer, then through the autumn, and part of the lovely Indian summer, the happy little pattern remained the same: the late morning air rang with the child's delight; the wheels crunched on the grey gravel thrown up onto the sidewalk; the sunlight bounced from white head to blonde, from pale cheek to rosy. No one ever heard the old man speak to her.

252

--- PAGE 251 (PDF page 266) ---
STRANGE BOND

Sometimes he allowed her to ride a bit before him, but the danger was too great. Ellen kept turning her body to see if he was still there, and, at such times, her control of the trike was hazardous. So, with stiff-necked dignity, he would pedal ahead, and she would laugh out, "Wait, Man! Wait minit," and the race was on again.

This idyl ended sometime in late October. One morning the old gentleman didn't appear. Ellen asked, with the persistence of the very young, "Where man gone?" and no one could explain to her the meaning of the black wreath on Mrs. Prouty's door. We could not say he had died silently, as he had lived, or that his hand was tightly clasped around a bicycle pant's clip. Nor could we say that it was the first time Mrs. Prouty had ever seen a smile on his face.

Until the first big snowfall, when the trike was brought in for the winter, Ellen stayed close to the house, watching carefully lest she miss him. Each day, her disappoint-ment and puzzled look brought us the ache of genuine sorrow, and often, in our hearts, we heard an echo of her now-silent cry, "Wait, Man! Wait minit!"

[ILLUSTRATION - Simple drawing of a person riding a bicycle]

Always With Delight

Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn

These things my hands have loved to touch: smooth jade
That holds the shadowed green of mountain pool;
Worn leather of a long-loved book, brocade,
Small ocean-polished pebbles, wet and cool;
All old, old woods grown rich with use and age
Whose soft patina shows the patterned grain;
A gold-illuminated parchment page,
Rare cloisonné, and fine, thin porcelain.
But with the most delight, my fingers trace
The living warmth and movement of your face.

253