[Vol50 | July | Magazine Page 535 | PDF Page 555]
[Title: Theology]

--- PAGE 534 (PDF page 554) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

make men perfect through their obedience. When an elder strives with all his heart to keep the commandments, he enjoys the Spirit that convinces others of the truth (D & C 50:21-22), and he retains a remission of his own sins (Mosiah 4:26). Forgiveness of sins is dependent upon how well one overcomes the world.

To enjoy the fellowship of the Spirit, one must eschew evil in all of its forms. Following the ways of the world by partaking of customs, practices, and ideas incompatible with what the Lord has revealed, brings loss of true happiness and the protecting companionship of the Holy Ghost. It is just as true today, as in 1831 when the first four verses of Section 64 were given, "the kingdom has been given to those who have received Jesus Christ in baptism, and therefore, the wonderful opportunity is theirs to receive the blessing of salvation by overcoming the world, always striving to retain a remission of sin.

THE KEYS OF THE KINGDOM

The members of the Church belong to the kingdom, but only one person holds the Priesthood keys which entitle him to direct the work of the kingdom. Joseph Smith is told in this revelation that he would continue to hold the keys of the mysteries of that kingdom only as he observed the commandments. (D & C 64:5.) In an earlier revelation Joseph Smith was informed that if he did not prove faithful he could appoint another in his place. (Ibid., 43:1-10; Lesson 18, Relief Society Magazine, August 1959.) In the Prophet's case he had sinned as all

men sin, although apparently not grievously. Because he had erred did not give cause for anyone to have "occasion against him without cause" (D & C 64:6). President George A. Smith said that throughout the history of the Church a spirit developed among many elders "to suppose that they knew more than the Prophet," and that he "was going wrong" (Journal of Discourses 11:7).

THE STEPS OF REPENTANCE

Throughout the revelations repentance and forgiveness are spoken of in connection with the Church membership as a whole and also with individuals. We should keep in mind that repentance is for everyone. Sins of omission as well as commission are condemned by the Lord. An example is from Section 58 where we learn that William W. Phelps was admonished to cease from seeking to excel and become humble (verses 40-41). The following verses express the law of forgiveness as it applies to the member of the Church:

Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more.

By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins—behold, he will confess them and forsake them (D & C 58:42-43).

Several significant points are made in these verses. First, it is clear that sins shall receive forgiveness, provided the repentance is sincere, and the sins shall no longer be remembered. Second, an important element of repentance is confession, and third, there is no repentance and consequently no forgiveness without forsaking sin.

537

--- PAGE 535 (PDF page 555) ---
JULY 1963

Elder Spencer W. Kimball has outlined the steps of repentance as (1) sorrow for sin, (2) abandonment of sin, (3) confession of sin, (4) restitution for sin, and (5) doing the will of the Lord. (Conference Report, October 1949, page 127.)

It is probable that at no time does one lose completely his sensitivity to sin, but the full impact of the sin in bringing one to repentance is lessened by continued sinning. When the person repents, remorse of conscience brings the urge to abandon the sin and seek the Lord for forgiveness. The principal step to forgiveness is to forsake sin.

In an earlier revelation, we learned that offenses committed with public knowledge should be confessed in public, while those committed in secret should be rebuked in secret. (D & C 42:88-93.) Confession of sin is a part of repentance — confession to God in the name of the Savior, always. Those sins, however, that may affect the member's status in the Church are to be confessed to the Lord's representative, the bishop. In a commentary on Section 58, verse 43, Elder Spencer W. Kimball says:

Especially grave errors such as sexual sins shall be confessed to the bishop as well as to the Lord. There are two remissions which one might wish to have. First, the forgiveness from the Lord, and second, the forgiveness of the Lord's Church through its leaders. As soon as one has an inner conviction of his sins, he should go to the Lord in "mighty prayer" as did Enos and never cease his supplication until he shall, like Enos (of the Book of Mormon), receive the assurance that his sins have been forgiven by the Lord. It is unthinkable that God absolves serious sins upon a few requests.

He is likely to wait until there has been long sustained repentance as evidenced by a willingness to comply with all His other requirements. No priest nor elder is authorized to thus act for the Church. The Lord has a consistent, orderly plan. Every soul in the stake is given a bishop who, by the very nature of his calling and his ordination, is a "judge in Israel." The bishop is one's best earthly friend. He will hear the problems, judge the seriousness thereof, determine the degree of repentance and decide if it warrants an eventual forgiveness. He does this as the earthly representative of God, the master physician, the master psychologist, the master psychiatrist. If repentance is sufficient he may waive penalties which is tantamount to forgiveness. The bishop claims no authority to absolve sins, but he does share the burden, waive penalties, relieve tension and strain and he may assure a continuation of activity. He will keep the whole matter most confidential ("Be Ye Clean," BYU Speeches of the Year, May 4, 1954).

To the elders (and to all members of the Church) referred to in Section 64, the Lord said that he would forgive whomsoever he would, but of us it is required to forgive all men. (D & C 64:10.) In other words, ultimate forgiveness is in the hands of the Lord, but he has promised, as indicated above, that he will, when, in addition to sorrow for sin, there is abandonment and confession of sins by the one seeking forgiveness, forgive the sinner upon sincere repentance. Then, what more is required of the person seeking forgiveness? The next step is restitution insofar as this is possible. There are some things for which complete restitution cannot be made. The murderer and the one who takes virtue cannot restore what is taken, but there are some things that might be done to mitigate the offense. In the case of the

538

--- PAGE 536 (PDF page 556) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

latter, complete and full devotion to the cause of Zion in bringing souls to Christ is a part of possible restitution. "Any large undertaking that each good deed, each testimony, each proselyting effort, each safeguard thrown about others is like a blanket over one's own sins, or like a deposit against an overdraft in the bank," said Elder Kimball. This leads us to the final step in repentance.

DOING THE FATHER'S WILL

Since every person needs to repent (I John 1:8), some because of serious sins, we learn of another reason for keeping the commandments. The fullest measure of salvation is available to those who obey the Lord in all things, which includes repentance. (D & C 133:62). In the Lord's Preface to the Doctrine and Covenants, we find this sublime truth:

For I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance; Nevertheless, he that repents and does the commandments of the Lord shall be forgiven (Ibid., 1:31-32).

A LAW OF FORGIVENESS

Throughout the Savior's ministry emphasis was put upon man's relationship with his fellow man. His admonitions against murder, adultery, stealing, slander, and other vices were intended to bring peace to individuals and a reign of peace for all men. But, in general, mankind has not accepted the way of peace, and in these last days, the world is ripened in iniquity and is in need of great repentance. (See General Conference sermons by Elders Spencer W. Kimball and

Delbert L. Stapley, Improvement Era, December 1961.)

The Lord's forgiveness is withheld until the person can also forgive his fellow men. Elder James E. Talmage forcefully brings this point to the reader's attention by reference to several instances in Jesus' teachings, including the parable of the talents. (Matt. 18:23-35; Articles of Faith, pp. 110-111.) In commenting upon a part of the Lord's Prayer as given in the Bible (Matt. 6:9, 12), and the emphasis given in The Book of Mormon, Elder Kimball says:

... Then in the Lord's prayer to the people in Jerusalem, he said: "Our Father which art in heaven ... forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors." Did he not mean in the same manner and in the same degree, perhaps, as we forgive our debtors? He made it a little more clear, even, to the Nephites, for after he had said: "forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors" (3 Nephi 13:11) he said, "For, if ye forgive men their trespasses your heavenly Father will also forgive you; "But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses" (3 Nephi 13:14-15; also Mosiah 26:31). Condemnation, then, comes to you who will not forgive, probably even greater than to him who gave the offense (Conference Report, October 1949, page 128).

SECTION 64 AND FORGIVENESS

In this dispensation, the Lord has revealed, with emphasis, the law that

... he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin.

I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men (verses 9-11).

There were occasions when the disciples were guilty of offenses

539

--- PAGE 537 (PDF page 557) ---
against one another and failed to forgive in their hearts, and for this the Lord said "they were afflicted and sorely chastened" (verse 8). It is consistent with gospel teachings that disobedience brings unhappiness, loss of the Spirit with its many blessings, and thus afflictions follow. Sometimes we think that the blessings of the gospel and also condemnations come only in the future existence. King Benjamin taught that the Lord's blessings come bounteously in this life to those who remember him in faith. (Mosiah 2:24.) What greater blessing can be received than to have happiness here and eternal life in the world to come? (D & C 59:23).

The living prophets have counseled the saint to follow the Savior's teachings in not setting up oneself in judgment against his neighbor. The common offenses that bring ill will, malice, and hatred are often times due to misunderstandings. To eliminate this possibility, the Lord admonishes his followers to be the first to make reconciliation when offenses arise. The injured should go to the one who injured him and seek reconciliation! President David O. McKay has given us the Savior's teaching regarding forgiveness of fellow men in these words:

If we would have peace as individuals, we must supplant enmity with forbearance, which means to refrain or abstain from finding fault or from condemning others. "It is a noble thing to be charitable with the failings and weaknesses of a friend, to bury his weaknesses in silence, but to proclaim his virtues from the house tops." We shall have power to do this if we really cherish in our hearts the ideals of Christ, who said,

"If thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother

hath ought against thee; Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift" (Matt. 5:23-24).

Note the Savior did not say if you have ought against him, but if you find that another has ought against you. How many of us are ready to come up to that standard? If we are, we shall find peace. Many of us, however, instead of following this admonition, nurse our ill-will until it grows to hatred, then this hatred expresses itself in fault-finding and even slander, "whose whisper over the world's diameter as level as a cannon to its mouth, transports its poison shot." Back-biting, fault-finding, are weeds of society that should be constantly eradicated. Gossip, too, brings discord and thrives best in superficial minds, as fungi grows best on weakened plants. "Bear ye one another's burdens," but do not add to those burdens by gossiping about your neighbors or by spreading slander. Diogenes was asked one day to name that beast, the bite of which is the most dangerous. The old philosopher replied: "Of tame beasts, the bite of the flatterer; of wild beasts, that of the slanderer" (Conference Report, October 1938, pp. 133-134).

The law that the injured one make the first step to be reconciled with his brother does not remove the responsibility from the person who injured another to take the first step to reconciliation.

HE SHALL BE CAST OUT

The information concerning the unrepentant in Section 64 is an extension of what an earlier revelation said about "casting" the member from the Church because of disobedience to gospel principles. (See D & C 41:5-6; 42:20-28.)

One of the laws given in Section 42 is the law concerning transgressors. "This law provides that the unrepentant shall be brought before a Church court and, if found guilty,

540