[Vol50 | April | Magazine Page 281 | PDF Page 296]
[Title: "Music"]

--- PAGE 280 (PDF page 295) ---
APRIL 1963

lemondrops which we usually won in the cupboard saved the money
with a few wiles. for taxes. There was never anything
Their tiny home, snuggled close bought on credit. They were of the
to the kindly soil, was cosy. The firm opinion that if you owed any-
furnishings reflected the skills and thing you never owned anything.
crafts of humble folk. On the man- They had a warm shelter from the
tel shelf were glass and china orna- elements, sufficient clothing to cov-
ments, mementos, a vase of ever- er them, and of good substantial
lasting flowers, and the coal-oil food there was plenty. The smell of
lamp which would be transferred to Swedish baking of buns, breads, and
the table when darkness came. A caraway cakes was mouth watering.
woven rag carpet over straw padding There were always honey cookies in
covered the front room floor. White the stone jar. In the deep, cool cel-
crocheted doilies were on the cup- lar pans of milk were in the screened
board shelves, on the chairbacks, cupboard, home-cured bacon and
and on the family pictures hanging hams hung from nails in the ceiling.
on the wall. Crisp white curtains There were shelves of home-canned
were at the windows, windows fruit and bins of apples, potatoes,
filled with carefully tended begon- and onions.
ias and geraniums, and a hanging
plant spangled with little white We liked to eat at the grandpar-
stars, appropriately called Star of ents' house; always there was a snow-
Bethlehem. A water bucket stood white cloth and milk out of a pitch-
on a bench, with a dipper hanging er covered with blue flowers. When
above. Not many years before she we wanted a "piece," Grandma
died she had a sink put in with run- would hold the huge loaf of home-
ning water, and she thought there made bread in the crook of her arm
was nothing that could surpass that and spread the butter on the end,
luxury. Her coal stove shone, she then cut an inch-thick slice. There
was so proud of it. And always were plenty of jams and preserves
there was a steaming teakettle on it. on the pantry shelf, but the rich,
                                    newly churned butter spread so
WE loved to stay at Grandma's, thick your teeth left furrows, was
where we slept in a folding food fit for a queen. But there was
bed, sinking down into feather mat- a temptation to add a layer of
tresses. I think, small as we were, groundcherry preserves or wild-plum
we were aware of the simple artistry jelly. Sure, memory colors it, flav-
of the patchwork quilt that covered ors it, but was there ever anything
us. This was sanctuary. more delicious?

I still have one or two things of There were trees around Grand-
Grandma's, not priceless heirlooms, pa's house and deep grass, not often
but comely souvenirs of simpler cut, to play in. A sturdy swing hung
ways and days than our own. from a strong limb of one tree, and
I don't suppose that in actual a homemade hammock strung be-
cash they had many dollars a year tween two others provided places
in their hands. A sugarbowl back to play. In June and July there was
                                    the sweet nostalgic smell of the

282

--- PAGE 281 (PDF page 296) ---
I NEVER KNEW MY GRANDPARENTS WERE POOR

summer apples to be had for the picking or climbing.

When friends or family gathered at Grandma's, children went along. All were assured a welcome and no one was ever allowed to go without a taste of whatever was in the cupboard. No matter how busy our grandparents were, their eyes were alight with welcome. If it was a quilting party, we children loved to play under the quilt until we were sent outside, for they believed that children should be seen and not heard — too much. There were happiness and good cheer at those gatherings. I am sure there was no talk of salaries, of strikes, of wage boosts, of diets and installments and automobile problems. Surely they had their troubles; certainly, if we had to live as they did, we would think so, but life seemed to be free from financial urgency. I am sure that the last thing that worried them was keeping up with their neighbors.

But it wasn't all play and fun when we went to visit the grandparents. They believed that, beginning young, one must be taught there was work in this world to do, and no one had any right to get out of it. We fed the pigs and

chickens, herded the cow; into a little basket we gathered eggs, carried in chips for the fire; standing on a stool by the table, wiped dishes, and sitting on the same stool at Granny's knee, we learned to darn. We learned that there must be rhythm, as we churned and watched expectantly for the butter to "come."

Because they were Swedish, June 23, midsummer, meant much to them and, together with other Swedes in town, they celebrated. And we were included. There were singing and games and stories of the "old country." With life lived at a similar level, they found fresh savor in smaller things. Were they really poor, those folks?

Remembering those days gives me an illusion of sharing in a way of life that has gone forever, but nothing can take away this childhood dowry of essential goodness.

I know now that my grandparents were poor, but only in superficial things thought to be important now, for they were rich in faith, love, humility, kindliness, frugality, honesty, industry, Christian virtues. Because of them I am rich — rich in the heritage they left me.

GLARE AND MOONLIGHT

LOOKING out from a brightly lighted room, the moonlight seems dim and unimportant. Walking outside, with eyes accustomed to it, moonlight is a glow of great enchantment.

Just so, I must not let the glare of prejudice blind me to the beauty of character of others I meet.

— Celia L. Luce

283

--- PAGE 282 (PDF page 297) ---
"MAMA"

Anna Duncan

THIN streams of warm milk sang happily as they hit the bottom of the shiny pail. Mama sat on a battered, old feed bucket she had turned over for a milking stool. She rested her cheek against the cow's warm flank and stripped the milk methodically into the pail. It splashed and splattered against the inside of the bucket. I straddled the coral fence and watched the frothy white liquid rise higher and higher in the bucket. Mama's hands closed and opened with rhythmic regularity. The fingers were brown and strong. I listened to the zing-zang, zing-zang of the milk against the metal. It made me drowsy, and I half closed my eyes until everything before me became one brown, blurred form.

The rough pole fence felt scratchy against the inside of my bare knees. A soft breeze swept past my face, bringing with it the odor of hay and warm milk, and the thought of Papa away in the high hills herding sheep. I opened my eyes again and watched Mama finish milking. She moved from one cow to another until the bucket was full. She stood up and lifted the bucket of foaming liquid high above her head, slipping the wire handle over a rafter so that the cows wouldn't kick it over. I jumped down beside her, and we walked together to the haystack. "Let me, let me," I begged, taking hold of the smooth-handled pitchfork and spearing it into the hay. I pushed and pulled, grunting with exertion, but the hay wouldn't come loose. Mama laughingly took the pitchfork from my hands and began to fill the mangers with dry hay. The cows all moved expectantly toward the manger, picking up the prickly stems into their wide, moist mouths and chewing lazily. I found my own mouth moving sideways and round and round as I watched the animals eat.

"Must feel mighty slickery," I said, watching. Mama's ample figure swayed in rhythm to the work. Little wisps of chestnut-colored hair escaped from the soft bun at the nape of her neck and curled pleasantly around her flushed face.

I filled my arms with hay and carried it to the manger. I could feel the dry stems sticking into my bare arms and through the front of my dress. The hay was scratchy and made my nose itch. I dumped the armload of hay into the trough and walked back for more. "Whew," I breathed after a few trips.

Mama stood resting for a moment, leaning against the pitchfork. "Looks like it might rain," she observed, looking into the sky.

The clouds moved slowly across the pale blue heavens. I could imagine what it would be like to be up there lying in the fluffy, white mass. One of the bigger clouds looked like a great big, bulgy elephant with a curvy trunk. It slowly moved into the shape of a clown

284

--- PAGE 283 (PDF page 298) ---
"MAMA"

and the trunk turned into a pointed spout. I looked back into Mama's face and, sure enough, the lines were crinkling.

"Come along, Sister," Mama said to me.

We stopped to pick up the bucket of milk. I took hold of one side of the handle and helped her carry the milk to the house. The evening breeze caught Mama's cotton skirts, swirling them around her brown, bare legs. The metal handle cut into my hand and I turned loose and rubbed the crease that the handle had left in my palm. Mama held out her firm brown hand to me, and I moved around and took hold of it. It was nice and warm. I held it tightly as we swung happily along to the farmhouse.

Inside the kitchen, Mama poured the clean, white milk into several shallow pans and carried them carefully to the pantry, where she placed them on rough board shelves to cool. The rest of the milk went into the big, silver separator bowl. I took hold of the crank and began to turn it around and around. Mama closed her hand around mine and gave a few quick turns until the machine began to hum in a high-pitched whir.

Mama's eyes were close to the mirror that hung over the washstand. I could see them reflected as I helped her turn the separator handle. Around and around it whirred cheerfully. She let loose the handle and let me keep it going. I liked to watch the lines crinkle around Mama's soft gray eyes when she laughed.

We both turned to watch the bluish skimmed milk pour from the one spout and then a thin stream of yellow cream came from the other

When Mama came back into the kitchen, she busied herself at the old, black coal stove. She lifted the lid of the firebox and poked the burning coals with a long, steel poker, then she picked up the coal bucket and sprinkled the small chunks into the glowing fire.

As Mama opened the oven door of the stove, I could smell the newly baked bread — "Umm-m," I murmured. She tapped the loaves lightly with the tips of her fingers. Seeing that they were done, she gathered the pan up with the corner of her denim apron and carried the loaf pan to the cupboard where she dumped the plump, brown loaves onto a clean dish towel. I watched her take two blue glass bowls from the cupboard and fill them with chunks of steaming bread; she moved to the pantry and brought back a pan of last night's milk and skimmed the thick yellow cream over the broken bread chunks; she sprinkled the bread and cream with lots of sugar, and we sat down at the kitchen table to eat.

"Say the blessing," Mama reminded me as she bowed her head over her folded hands. "God, bless Daddy while he is away — bring him back safely. We thank thee for this food, and for this lovely day. Amen."

After supper was over and the dishes were washed, Mama pulled up the old black rocking chair close to the flickering fire glow and scooped me up into her warm comfortable lap; she held me close. Back and forth we rocked, back and forth.

285