[Vol50 | April | Magazine Page 297 | PDF Page 312]
[Title: Notes to the Field: Lesson Previews to Appear in the June Issue of The Relief Society Magazine]

--- PAGE 296 (PDF page 311) ---
Let's Glamorize Chicken
Myrtle E. Henderson

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a rooster]

SINCE chicken is a favorite of mine, and of many other people, I am happy to pass along some of the recipes that I have collected.

Barbecue Chicken

one large chicken, cut in pieces
jiffy barbecue sauce
½ c. chopped onion
¼ c. cooking oil
¾ c. tomato catsup
⅜ c. water

¼ c. lemon juice
3 tbsp. sugar
3 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce
1 tbsp. prepared mustard
2 tsp. salt
½ tsp. pepper

Cook onion until soft in a little water. Mix the remaining ingredients and heat. Pour into the onions and simmer 15 minutes.

Arrange the pieces of chicken in a baking dish and pour the sauce over them. Bake 1½ - 2 hours at 350 degrees. Place the cover on the dish after the sauce has started to bubble. (This sauce is good also on hamburgers or hot frankfurters.)
Serves 6.

Chicken and Asparagus

2 tbsp. shortening or cooking oil
1 tbsp. flour
¾ tsp. salt
pepper to taste
paprika to taste
2 c. cream or evaporated milk

1 egg, beaten
2 c. diced cooked chicken
2 c. cooked asparagus tips, cut into 2-inch lengths
2 tbsp. chopped pimento

Melt the shortening. Mix the flour and seasonings together and pour into the melted fat; stir until smooth. Add the cream and stir constantly until slightly thickened. Pour over the beaten egg and blend; add the chicken, asparagus tips, and pimento, and heat thoroughly. Serve on hot toast. Serves 4.

This may be placed in a greased casserole with ¼ c. cracker crumbs sprinkled over the top and baked in the oven.

1 c. of cooked broccoli could be used instead of asparagus.

Chicken Dressing Casserole

¾ c. chopped celery
½ c. chopped onion
2 tbsp. chopped parsley
½ c. butter
3 - 4 c. cooked diced chicken

6 c. dried bread broken into small pieces
1 tsp. salt
dash of pepper
½ - 1 tsp. poultry seasoning

Sauté for about 5 minutes the celery, onion, and parsley in the butter; add the chicken, broken bread, and seasoning. Toss together thoroughly, and pour into a greased casserole. Cover with chicken custard.
Serves 8.

Chicken Custard

1 c. chicken fat (part shortening, if desired)
1 c. sifted flour
4 c. chicken broth

4 slightly beaten eggs
1 c. milk
1 tsp. salt

Melt chicken fat in large saucepan, and blend in the 1 c. sifted flour. Gradually add the chicken broth and milk, stirring constantly. Add salt. Cook until very thick. Blend in the slightly beaten eggs and cook over low heat 3 - 4 minutes. Remove from heat and pour over the chicken and vegetable mixture. Bake 20 - 25 minutes at 350 degrees.

Chicken Croquettes

1¾ c. ground, cooked chicken
1 tsp. celery salt
1 tsp. lemon juice
1 tsp. chopped parsley
salt and pepper to taste

1 c. thick white sauce
1 c. fine bread crumbs
1 egg, beaten
¼ tsp. onion juice

Add the chicken, seasonings, lemon juice, and parsley to the white sauce. Cool and shape into croquettes. Dip into crumbs then into egg mixed with onion juice and again into the crumbs. Fry in deep fat from 2 to 5 minutes.

Molded Chicken Salad

1 envelope unflavored, unsweetened gelatin
¼ c. cold chicken stock
½ c. hot chicken stock
¼ tsp. salt

1 tsp. lemon juice
⅔ c. mayonnaise or salad dressing
1 c. diced cooked chicken
3 tbsp. minced green pepper
¼ c. diced celery

Soften gelatine in cold chicken stock in top of double boiler. Add hot stock and salt and stir over boiling water until gelatin is dissolved. Cool and stir in the lemon juice and mayonnaise. Combine with the chicken, green pepper, and celery. Pour into the oiled individual molds. Makes 6 servings.

Heaven Scent
Carolyn Kay Despain

Flowers bloom
Beneath a sea of air
And each sundrop
Caresses with a flare
The fabric of a petal.

Drowning in a sun-drenched earth,
Each breath will drink
With loving mirth
To weave its scented nettle.

298                                                           299

--- PAGE 297 (PDF page 312) ---
SPRAY IT
WITH

Flowers

Janet W. Breeze

DON'T toss out that old mirror just because the frame reveals its age. Instead, give it a whole new decorative lease on life.
All you need is a can of spray enamel (gold, pink, baby blue, or white), artificial flowers, thin wire, and a staple gun or thumbtacks.

Remove mirror from frame if possible. If not, tape newspaper to glass to prevent it from being painted. If paint should get on mirror, it can be scraped off later with a razor blade.

Give the flowers about a 4" stem, and wire them together in an attractive arrangement which measures approximately 5" x 2". Mix in leaves, and do this until you have enough groupings to cover your frame.

Staple or thumbtack flowers to frame until covered well, centering a fuller grouping at top.

If frame is metal, or if you wish to decorate a mirror which has no frame, adhere flowers with a strong jewelry cement.

Fill in any bare spots with an added leaf or flower. Now spray

300

--- PAGE 298 (PDF page 313) ---
SPRAY IT WITH FLOWERS

[ILLUSTRATION]

lightly with enamel, following instructions on manufacturer's label. For a truly porcelain or gilded look, apply paint in several thin coats, letting each coat dry thoroughly.

Return mirror to frame and hang as a bedroom eye-catcher or a bathroom dazzler.

The same principle of sprayed flowers can be applied to many other household castoffs, such as dressing-table lamp stands, picture frames, and bath salt bottles.

For a "new" lamp, first select a new shade, or fabric to cover the old one. Then, in a harmonizing color, spray the entire lampstand to which flowers have been glued at the base.

For decorating clear glass bottles, remove lid and spray (preferably gold). Spray also the flowers selected for decorating the bottle. The flowers should have stems and leaves removed before spraying.

When thoroughly dry, glue flowers and leaves to bottle in an attractive arrangement.

301

--- PAGE 299 (PDF page 314) ---
How to make a
BURLAP
                                                           Drusilla Ferree

1 YARD OF BURLAP                    Materials:
[DIAGRAM showing bag layout]         1 yard any color BURLAP (36"
3"                    HANDLES           wide)
3"                    HANDLES        1 linen-looking, plastic window
                                      shade (3' x 6')
                                    thread
                                    felt scraps
30"                    BAG          glue

                                    The diagram shows five linings,
                                    one lining each for five bags. The
18"        18"                     diagram of material for the bags
                                    shows two bags cut from the 36-
LINING 3' x 6'                     inch burlap. Three linings will be
(plus 1½" hem)                     left over. If these are used later,
[DIAGRAM showing lining layout]     the approximate cost of each bag
                                    would be 70 cents.

                                    Burlap and lining materials for
                                    each bag are cut from top and
                                    require no seam at the bottom.

                                    There will be four extra 1" x 27"
                                    strips of lining for handles left over.

                                    Procedure:

                                    Cut burlap down center. You will
                                    have 2 pieces 18" x 36". Now
                                    from each piece cut 2 handles
                                    for each bag 3" x 18". (You
                                    should have 2 bags 18" x 30",
                                    and 4 handles 3" x 18".)

                                    Lining:
                                    From window shade cut 5 lin-
                                    ings and 10 handles (take out
                                    stitched hem as you will need
                                    the entire shade).

302