[Vol50 | December | Magazine Page 940 | PDF Page 979]
[Title: Work Meeting]

--- PAGE 939 (PDF page 978) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

special family remembrances are connected with Thanksgiving Day. (See The Relief Society Magazine, November 1959, Editorial pp. 738-739.)

The 24th of July calls for other family traditions. Closely linked with love of one's country is love of one's religion and freedom of worship. What can families of today do to honor the pioneers who triumphantly fought the battle of the plains to find a place where they could worship in freedom without being molested? What tradition can be carried on that will be a way of teaching children to honor the pioneers of 1847? The first celebration was held in 1849. After the raising of the national flag, the band played, and the Nauvoo Bell was rung. There was a parade and a program, and every family "dined sumptuously" on fruits of the earth produced by their own hands.

Latter-day Saint families all have some connections with the pioneers, either directly or indirectly. Whatever these connections may be, today's children should hear the pioneer stories whether they be of those coming in 1847, or at some later date. Each family has a member who was first to embrace the gospel, who should be honored and remembered. There can be the raising of the flag and the ringing of a bell, and why not a pioneer meal produced in as far as possible by the family, with everyone helping? Pioneers shared whatever they had with their neighbors, and some sharing, too, can be part of the July 24th tradition.

Much has been written about Christmas traditions, and each family should develop its own special way of honoring the birth of our Savior. Traditions of Christmas are varied throughout the countries of the world, but they have a significance to families living in each land. These traditions are so well founded that many continue to practice them and make them traditions in their own family, even when they have left the country of their origin.

The Family Hour can well become a cherished tradition. Participation by each member of the family in the planning and programs of such events makes them memorable. Married children often establish this loved tradition in their own homes.

Other traditions are built upon days of deep significance to Latter-day Saint families. The blessing of a babe by father, followed by a family gathering and a review of blessings given babes in Bible times or to ancestors, emphasizes the importance of a name and a father's blessing. The day of baptism and the following confirmation should be set apart as the beginning of a new chapter in life. The account of the first person in the family to be baptized should be given in a way that will always be remembered. Priesthood ordination days and callings to various offices in the Church should be marked by family gatherings and special recognition. These are occasions when individuals being honored will receive encouragement for spiritual growth if given the Bible or The Book of Mormon or a subscription to a Church magazine, with a message of encouragement from the family.

941

--- PAGE 940 (PDF page 979) ---
DECEMBER 1963

Birthdays, of course, must be celebrated, and there will be annual family reunions. But some of the traditions that involve such regular happenings as Saturday cleaning of the house, shining of the shoes, and pressing trousers and dresses in order to be at one's best for the Lord's Day may make the strongest impression.

What are your family traditions? What ideals do they foster? Your answers will strongly suggest what your family will be twenty years hence.

x

LITERATURE • America's Literature

The Last Hundred Years

Lesson 46 — Willa Cather, Lover of Life (1874-1947)

Elder Briant S. Jacobs

(Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 833-849)

For Third Meeting, March 1964

Objective: To understand and enjoy the sustaining values of Willa Cather's world.

None of man's major frustrations is more vexing than his bewildering inability to live — actually — in sense and knowledge any spirit — in any moment other than the immediate one. How helpless he is to recreate into a fully compelling truth even his own yesterdays, which once he lived and was, let alone those of another, which he has never known with such intimacy. None knows this better than Willa Cather, who writes:

... Nobody can paint the sun, or sunlight. He can only paint the tricks that shadows play with it, or what it does to forms. He cannot even paint those relations of light and shade — he can only paint some emotion they give him, some man-made arrangement of them that happens to give him personal delight ...

("Light on Adobe Walls," On Writing, Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1949, pp. 123-124. Reprinted by permission of the publishers).

Though she broke with other worlds and values, Miss Cather created a high artistic integrity within her own. Her art, like her life, was one of intense dedication to principle, her highest being to honor humanity as she had come to know it. Through her art she simplified the clutter which is life until such truth shone through, and she did all — see, live, create — with uncompromising integrity. All her works exhibit such integrity. They are unified by the subtle tone running beneath the surface, by the inner spiritual values which are ever

942

--- PAGE 941 (PDF page 980) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

her true concern and which make her pages so unforgettable. Such an achievement came not by chance, but by exemplifying constantly, in her careful craft, her basic literary conviction that every fine story must leave its reader with a feeling of pleasure to be experienced over and over again in the mind, much as one can experience in the memory the perfume of flowers or a beautiful melody.

In a very real sense this integrating unity of style and tone is her most memorable achievement, for once having read her, and having at firsthand partaken of the pleasure of her mind and heart, we can never forget her. But above and beyond the page shines her "spiritual clarity," present only in those writers such as Miss Cather who love the truth with such an abiding dedication that they can tell it. And the truth of her works comes out of her life.

Miss Cather's Life

Born in 1874 to Anglo-Saxon parents who had long worked the soil, Willa moved with her family from her Virginia birthplace when she was nine to the exciting freedoms and promises offered by the virgin Nebraska plains. Nowhere in her essays of published fiction does she make a detectable reference to her parents other than in a poem, "Macon Prairie," which was published in April Twilights, a book of poetry which appeared in 1902. If the poem is to be trusted, her parents were bewildered by the irresistible "spirit of Westering," even while being led west by the indomitable will of her dying aunt.

They came, at last, to where the railway ended,
The strange troop captained by a dying woman;
The father, the old man of perfect silence,
The mother, unresisting, broken-hearted,
The gentle brother and his wife, both timid,
Not knowing why they left their native hamlet;
Going, as in a dream, but ever going.
(Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., New York, page 57. Reprinted by permission of the publishers).

It was these childhood years spent under the vast prairie sky while living among pioneers newly migrated from the Old World that gave her the themes and values about which her literary achievements were to be built. "That love of great spaces, of rolling, open country like the sea—it's the grand passion of my life." This she learned forever, but the sense of life, which came to have a deeper, larger origin within her, came from her great love for those common, simple folk in whom she found qualities of enduring greatness. In that decade when half a million people became sodhouse pioneers, she grew up in a pattern dominated by European influences. On Sunday she listened to sermons in French, Norwegian, and Danish. In nearby communities no English whatsoever was spoken. These transplanted settlers loved music and group celebrations. Grieg and Liszt still warmed their hearts.

Not until her family moved to Red Cloud in her teens did Willa attend formal school. She had learned Latin from the neighbors who loved this classical tongue and discipline, as she did. With her two grandmothers she read English lit-

943

--- PAGE 942 (PDF page 981) ---
DECEMBER 1963

crature. But her most important "mines of life" were the hours she spent riding her pony about the free countryside, visiting with warm-hearted Czech and Norwegian women as they baked or churned.

I used to ride home in the most unreasonable state of excitement. I always felt as if they had told me so much more than they said — as if I had actually got inside another person's skin. . . . Their stories used to go round and round in my head at night. This was, with me, the initial impulse (VAN DOREN, CARL: The American Novel, The Macmillan Company, 1939, page 282. Reprinted by permission of the publishers).

After graduating from high school in Red Cloud, she attended the University of Nebraska where she was editor of the literary magazine, in which her first published work appeared. After her graduation, in 1895, she became a journalist, writing first in Pittsburgh (where for a time she taught English), then later in New York City where she soon became editor of McClure's Magazine, one of the leading vehicles for the "Muckrakers," a movement of idealists and journalists who exposed widespread municipal corruptions throughout the budding nation. Although she was thus intimately associated with the grim realities of her contemporaries, she never incorporated any of these "realities" into her fiction. As time was to prove, her imagination was far too concerned with the abundant life as she saw it to permit itself to be trammeled underfoot by life's surface furnishings and trivia.

In her late twenties she made the first of many trips to Europe, and throughout her life traveled widely, in later years returning most often

to the American Southwest. In 1911, when she was thirty-seven years of age, she resigned from her editorship to devote her full energies to creative writing. O Pioneers!, one of her most successful novels, appeared in 1913. My Antonia (1918), probably her best-loved work save perhaps for Death Comes for the Archbishop (1927), firmly established her growing reputation. Death came to Willa Cather in 1947 while she was living in New York City. During her lifetime she had written one book of poems, a book of essays, her autobiography, three collections of stories, and twelve novels. In very deed her art was her life, a conviction Miss Cather phrased well in The Song of the Lark:

. . . what was any art but an effort to make a sheath, a mould in which to imprison for a moment the shining, elusive element which is life itself, — life hurrying past us and running away, too strong to stop, too sweet to lose? (The Song of the Lark, Houghton Mifflin Company, 1924, page 304. Reprinted by permission of the publishers).

That she loved her writing and the tools of her craft is amply proved by the above and foregoing quotations from her pen; that she honored other loves can be shown through definition and examples drawn from her works.

Love of Place
Alexandra Bergson, the strong, serene heroine of O Pioneers!, has shouldered the responsibility of pioneering their ranchland for her family. After making sure that the battle is won, she finally promises to marry Carl, her patient childhood

944