[Vol50 | July | Magazine Page 481 | PDF Page 501]
[Title: Frontispiece / From Near and Far]

--- PAGE 480 (PDF page 500) ---
From Near and Far

As a young mother, the articles, lessons, and stories contained in the Magazine are most helpful to me. I especially enjoyed reading the story "Battalion" (by Hazel K. Todd, May 1963). I look forward to her stories. The poetry and editorials are indeed inspiring and have strengthened my testimony. I thank my mother for encouraging me to subscribe to the Magazine. I certainly wouldn't be without it.
—Vonzaa Tubbs
Kemmerer, Wyoming

As a new convert to the Church, let me tell you of the thrill I experienced when I received my first Relief Society Magazine last month. Suddenly, I really felt a part of this wonderful sisterhood. Having just now received the April Special Short Story issue, I had the same exhilarating feeling. The cover and the frontispiece and the wonderful poetry are very uplifting to the spirit.
—Mrs. Howard L. Myers
Pasadena, Texas

I sit here amidst stacks of unfinished work, but just can't get at it until I at least look through the new issue of my Relief Society Magazine. I love and appreciate every bit of it. I just read the short article "Too Busy" (by Annella Barnes, May 1963, page 351). With seven children, from ten months to twelve years, I surely know that what Sister Barnes was saying was all too true. But each article adds its spark of inspiration to my life to encourage me to try harder all the time to live as I should.
—Carma Carver
Grace, Idaho

I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a wonderful Magazine. The missionaries here in Upsala have given me some copies, and I really enjoyed reading them. The short stories are especially delightful. I have found the articles on America's literature very useful and interesting, as I am a student of literary history here at the University of Upsala. So thanks once again for all the help and encouragement I get from the Magazine.
—Kjerstin M. Wallentin
Upsala, Sweden

I am very grateful for our very own Magazine. My husband's work keeps us moving from time to time, and it usually keeps me on my toes hoping my Magazine gets to me on time. The Magazine is an indispensable part of me. Reading any issue of the Magazine gives me an uplifting feeling, and it is how my problems sprout wings and fly away.
—Mollie Dunaway
Ewa, Oahu, Hawaii

A friend started giving me copies of the wonderful Relief Society Magazine and I liked the Magazine so well that I just couldn't wait, and so subscribed for my own. I have been trying to get my mother interested in our Church, and I think through the help of the Magazine and its inspirational contents, I may succeed. I enjoy everything in it, from the recipes to the poetry, but I get the most enjoyment from the stories on the early founders of the Church.
—Jackie Kurtz
Loton, California

I am grateful to have the Magazine come to our home, after traveling around from New Zealand and finally settling here for at least another two years. The Magazine is like having someone call with a spiritual message, always uplifting.
—Margaret Smith
St. Jean, Quebec
Canada

The Relief Society Magazine has been a great help to me in my search for truth. I just can't wait for it each month, for it always meets my particular need at the time. I enjoy particularly the theology lessons and the poetry.
—Mrs. Violet M. Tate
Pennsauken, New Jersey

482

--- PAGE 481 (PDF page 501) ---
The Relief Society Magazine

JULY 1963 VOLUME 50 NUMBER 7

Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

SPECIAL FEATURES
484 "And They Shall Also Teach Their Children. . . ." A. Theodore Tuttle
490 He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, Part II — President John Taylor · Preston Nibley

FICTION
492 Kiss of the Wind, Chapter 1 · Rosa Lee Lloyd
500 Beneath the Purple Mountains · Betty Lou Martin Smith
508 The Brainstorm · Helen S. Phillips

GENERAL FEATURES
482 From Near and Far
505 Woman's Sphere · Ramona W. Cannon
506 Editorial: Modern Pioneers · Marianne C. Sharp
529 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities · Hulda Parker
560 Birthday Congratulations

FEATURES FOR THE HOME
516 Summer Fancy Stitching for Your Daughters · Shirley Thulin
521 Let-Downs and Hand-Me-Downs · Janet W. Breeze
522 Threshing · Adrian Hansen
524 Aunt Martha's Wiggly Cake · Linnie F. Robinson
525 Recipes From Sacramento Stake · Adelle Gorsh
528 Evelyn Davis and Bernice MacLeod Hobbies

LESSONS FOR OCTOBER
536 Theology — The Law of Forgiveness · Roy W. Doxey
542 Visiting Teacher Messages — "Wherefore, I Say Unto You, That Ye Ought to Forgive One Another" · Christine H. Robinson
543 Work Meeting — The Family As a Planning Group · Virginia F. Cutler
545 Literature — Mark Twain, a Great American Conscience · Briant S. Jacobs
551 Social Science — Priesthood and Church Government · Ariel S. Ballif

POETRY
481 The Poplars — Frontispiece · Lael W. Hill
To a Little Girl, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 498; Handcart, by Ida Isaacson, 499; City Pool, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 504; Portals of Summer, by Ida Elaine James, 514; A Grandson Grows in My Garden, by Maude Rubin, 515; Pilgrimage, by Catherine B. Bowles, 557; Poem, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 560.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address.

Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

483

--- PAGE 482 (PDF page 502) ---
"And they shall also teach their children"

Elder A. Theodore Tuttle Of the First Council of Seventy

[ILLUSTRATION: Family scene with parents and children around a table with books]

THE cry from the children's bedroom brought both parents to the bedside of their frightened, three-year-old son, awakened by a loud clap of thunder in the storm raging outside. Bending close, the mother whispered, "The wind is only whistling a tune; you can whistle like the wind, if you try." As the parents left the room their little boy was whistling softly, matching the high crescendo of the wind as it whistled through the eaves. As they looked in on each of the other children, straightening them out and covering them up, they mused: "How blessed we are — how fortunate to have these lovely children to love and protect and teach." Then as they prayed once again that night, they asked for wisdom beyond their years or natural ability to help them perform the full responsibility of parenthood.

The Lord placed upon the shoulders of parents a major lifetime responsibility when he said, ". . . and they shall also teach their children. . . ." Modern revelation teaches us that the spirit children that are lent to us constitute our kingdom. There are surprisingly few who realize that their prime responsibility is so to teach their children that the association they now enjoy shall be perpetual in the eternities to come.

DECIDE TO BE PARENTS

This decision does not refer to the biological function only (though certainly the Lord has been specific enough regarding this function in this age of decision). Rather, this decision to be parents means to put first the obligation to be baby-sitters, trainers, discipliners, supervisors, teachers, assigners, checker-uppers, planners, story-tellers, exemplars, and, in short, to be common, ordinary, garden variety, old-fashioned, on-the-job, full-time parents. It means that this responsibility as parents comes before social climbing, the newest in gadgets, or conspicuous consumption. It supersedes personal selfishness, propriety, pleasure, even a tidy house. It demands solemn and continual allegiance to a cause greater than

484

--- PAGE 483 (PDF page 503) ---
"AND THEY SHALL ALSO TEACH THEIR CHILDREN"

self. Fulfillment of this parental duty develops all of the virtues that can be named, and requires the application of all the qualities that make men great. But to participate in the joy of this privilege, as the Lord has intended, requires a conscious decision to accept the responsibilities of this sacred obligation — the most sacred and far-reaching obligation assumed by two people.

A SOLEMN OBLIGATION

Although the family is generally considered to be a free and natural association, it is the Lord's pre-designed plan to bring to earth and to educate his spirit children. Hence he has given many general and specific instructions about this relationship:

But whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea (Matt. 18:6).

And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion . . . that teach them not . . . the sin be upon the heads of the parents (D & C 68:25).

In the excellent book, Youth and the Church by Elder Harold B. Lee, a warning is sounded to parents — if they will listen. He quotes J. Edgar Hoover, who cites the alarming rise in youth delinquency, then concludes, saying:

America's youth, indicted by public opinion as reckless and careless, is blamed for these misdeeds. The real fault lies elsewhere. Before a youth has broken the law, some adult has committed a more serious crime. Driven by lust for money and enslaved by pleasure, the adult generation forgets that the most solemn obligation any person can assume in the eyes of God and man is to guide and direct a child along proper paths. To place anything ahead of that responsibility is akin to criminal negligence.

Is it any wonder the Lord has given such strict commands respecting this relationship — particularly as it pertains to children?

PROBLEM OF TIME

Once a father and mother really decide to be parents to their children, they can take the necessary steps to become such. The first major issue parents must face, and resolve, is the matter of time. A few excerpts from Dr. G. Homer Durham's excellent article specifically pinpoint this problem for many Latter-day Saint parents.

The fundamental issue . . . is probably not lack of desire, attitude, instruction, or preachment to parents. The issue may be fundamentally an issue of time. This is my best observation, offered as a social scientist. Too many of us have become "organization men and women." We are ambitious people. We work hard all day. We fill our nights with organizational activities; business; educational; church; civic; plus dinner clubs. The harsh truth is that little or no time is scheduled for the family. The family is supposed to get along with unscheduled time, of which none is usually left!

In the rural society most older parents still remember, there was always left over time. In modern, urban, industrial society, every organization tends to become a time-demanding, time-consuming monster. What the job . . . the service club, the social functions that go with the job, the chamber of commerce, the labor union, the professional association, the educational front, the many-faceted religious organizations, all train their demands for the individual's time — there is no time left. Too few modern urban men have learned to say "no" to demands on

485