[Vol50 | November | Magazine Page 860 | PDF Page 895]
[Title: Work Meeting — Planning Exterior Upkeep of the Home]

--- PAGE 859 (PDF page 894) ---
saying, "We are only renting, so we don't want to spend any money, time, or effort on this place because it belongs to the landlord," or "We plan to move in a few months, so there is no point in doing anything to the house or yard." One can become so conditioned to squalor, ugliness, filth, disrepair, and disorder that the eyes no longer see and the mind no longer perceives anything better. To save yourself from this sad plight, it is important to stand off away from where you live and look at what you call "home" critically. Does it express your ideal of an appropriate setting for your family? Is there anything about the place that lifts your soul? Do you sense order, cleanliness, integrity, fair dealing, kindness, and reverence from the appearance? Is there a certain individuality about the place that bespeaks your way of life? After your critical appraisal, make a list of what should be done and plan to involve the whole family in making improvements.

One family decided that the house needed paint, so a project was planned that required the help of all six of the offspring. The small children cleaned up and painted the screens. The older children, who could use ladders, helped with scraping off old paint and put on the primer. The adults did the finish coat. The work could have been criticized by a professional painter, but if the family had had to wait until they had money enough to hire it done, they would have missed the excitement of bringing about the transformation and the fun of working and planning together. Other projects followed. Books about

landscaping were borrowed from the library, and a plan for some trees, shrubs, and flowers was developed. Cuttings were obtained from neighbors and relatives, and it wasn't long until the house became more rooted to the site, and, through the loving care of each member, it started to express the ideals and aspirations of the occupants. The children took turns in taking care of the garbage and each was responsible for putting play equipment under cover after use. A swing was hung in the back yard. A sandbox was provided. A picnic table was constructed, and so many neat projects grew out of what had thus far been accomplished that no longer was there the problem of children always wanting to go some place else — to them, there was no place quite like home.

A young couple just starting out in marriage went to Tokyo to serve in the Armed Forces. They had imagined their home as a picturesque Japanese house and garden, but found that they were to be housed in the ugly gray of army barracks. Instead of bemoaning their plight, they did something about it. They painted their front door green and put out a welcome mat. Some trailing vines and other potted plants were grouped on either side of the doorway. A low bench with a gay cover tacked on provided a place to sit down and take off one's shoes before entering. There was promise of something even more interesting inside, and the lucky ones who had the privilege of entering were not disappointed. A Japanese fish net, shells from the seashore, some Japanese prints, and seasonal flower ar-

861

--- PAGE 860 (PDF page 895) ---
NOVEMBER 1963

rangements made one forget completely the ugly army barracks seen from the outside. This was the setting for the birth of their first child, and the setting where they learned to plan and work together to make a place better than they found it. Here was a Latter-day Saint home that had its label written on the doorway through other symbols than words. What label do you have on your doorway?

LITERATURE • America's Literature

The Last Hundred Years

Lesson 45 — Robert Frost, Modern New England Classic (1874-1963)

Elder Briant S. Jacobs

(Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 825-833)

For Third Meeting, February 1964

Objective: To discover Robert Frost through a sympathetic understanding of his poetry.

The poems included in this lesson are from Complete Poems of Robert Frost, Copyright 1923, 1928, 1930, 1939, by Holt, Rhinehart and Winston, Inc., Copyright 1936 by Robert Frost. Copyright renewed 1951, (c) 1956, by Robert Frost. Reprinted by permission of Holt, Rhinehart and Winston, Inc.

THE death in February 1963 of the poet Robert Frost, a four-time Pulitzer prize winner, removed from the list of living American literary artists, a man of no mean accomplishment. He, together with Carl Sandburg and T. S. Eliot, supplied the extreme diversity in poetical composition which reflects the American image. It is found complete in no one writer alone. While Eliot has enjoyed by far the greatest influence as nucleus of the sophisticated "modern" school of criticism and poetry, by comparison Sandburg and Frost have come to be considered as old-fashioned affirmers who write of the people and to the people — literary outlaws they are, more bluntly stated. Yet, pervasive and fashionable though the Eliot school has been for over thirty years, it is Sandburg and T. S. Eliot whom many have loved and honored, possibly because these two old-fashioned "moderns" have written poetry which is more understandable, and because, in turn, they have loved and championed the virtues of plain, average Americans.

"Ends and beginnings — there are no such things." The best proof

862

--- PAGE 861 (PDF page 896) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

that this Frostian statement is an enduring truth lies in Frost himself. Most fittingly he exemplifies the timeless qualities in which he places his trust, both as man and as poet. And, in complete independence of both well-wishers and scorners, he ignored contemporary literary patterns and fads as he carefully built his poems to contain the form and tone which he felt were true to themselves as poetry, as well as to the stony integrity of their maker.

"The land is always in my bones," wrote Frost. And, he might have added, so are poetry, puckish wit, and a sustained high regard for the simplicity of greatness as exemplified in his companions, Homer, Theocritus, Dante, Milton, and Shakespeare. He shared these masters in his stimulating talking and teaching which was frame to his body, as light to his mind, and hope to his soul.

INTRODUCING FROST

Descendant of nine generations of staunch New England folk, Robert Lee Frost was named in honor of General Robert E. Lee, his father William Frost's personal hero. Robert was born in San Francisco March 26, 1874, less than a decade after Lee's surrender at Appomattox.

When his father died he left a wife, two children, a life insurance policy with its last premium recently unpaid, and a request that he be buried in New England soil. His request was honored by his resourceful Scotch wife. Having no money nor near kin of her own, she took her children to Lawrence,

Massachusetts, where the grandfather, a foreman in the textile mills, reluctantly welcomed them ("We were the hole in the bucket"). Frost recalled as an adult). At once his mother put her excellent classical education to good use by becoming a teacher while Robert went to work in the mill, always carrying Shakespeare or Virgil in his back pocket to read during his lunch hour. After being co-valedictorian with his future wife and after seven years of odd jobs, Robert attended Dartmouth college for two months, but so disliked the methods and content of formal education that he quit. After his marriage, he attended Harvard University for two years before he abandoned all hope of ever getting an education and returned to farming and teaching, but really to writing poetry, his full, real love. When his grandfather advanced the $1,800 to buy him a one-horse, one-man farm of thirty run-down acres, he said to young Frost, "I know what you're up to [he meant poetry]. Will you settle down if I give you a year to try this out?" Frost struck a great auctioneer's pose and dared him with, "Give me twenty, give me twenty!" And that is just what it took.

THE EMERGING POET

During his restless college years, Frost frequently took solitary walks in the woods, which disconcerted his classmates. "What do you do on your walks?" they asked. "I gnaw wood," Frost replied. Thus, the poet Frost ever felt the need to renew himself in solitude, that his inner voice might sing truly and that he might be alert to his own

863

--- PAGE 862 (PDF page 897) ---
"innerness" and record it. In Vermont he felt he was getting nowhere. He had published but a few poems and had no association with other poets or professional literary persons. Although at thirty-eight he was described by the State superintendent of schools as the best teacher in the State, Frost wanted to be the best poet. Staking everything on his dangerous experiment, Robert sold his farm in 1912 and moved his wife and four children to a peaceful farm not far from London, England. In England he met other young poets who believed in him, predicting the quiet but substantial success of his first slender book of poems A Boy's Will, which was published in London the following year. In 1914 his publication North of Boston was praised by eminent critics both in England and in the United States. In 1915 he risked the hazards of submarine attack to bring his family home to a new farm at Franconia, New Hampshire. Frost was already famous. From then until 1949, when his Complete Poems appeared, he published several books of poems, four of which received the Pulitzer Prize for literary excellence, the only American to be so honored. In addition to being given almost forty honorary doctorates by distinguished universities in his own country and the British Isles, he was the only poet ever to have participated in the inauguration of the President of the United States. This occurred on January 20, 1961.

FROST, THE TEACHER

In 1915 his success as a poet became assured, and he still hoped to make his living solely from poetry; however, it became apparent that royalties from his book sales would not be enough.

It was in 1917 that President Alexander Meiklejohn of Amherst College took the daring step of making Robert Frost a full professor and the first Artist in Residence in any university — all without Frost's even having graduated from college. In addition to founding the Breadloaf School of English in 1920, Mr. Frost lived and lectured intermittently at Amherst, Michigan, Dartmouth, Harvard, and, before the exertion became too great, read his poems on the campuses of the great universities of the Nation. But whether lecturing to an audience or in the classroom, he was always a great teacher in action. Seeking always to influence and excite rather than to persuade, he defined himself as a "sort of poetic radiator."

Acting on his solid conviction that "courage is the human virtue that counts most" he had the regular textbooks stored in the basement while he led his students in the lifelong activity of discovering new relationships between books of Plato, Gibbon, and the myriad phases of life surrounding a growing boy. To be "daringly good" as a teacher, he strove to teach his students the supreme import of "two minimal things: taste and judgment," these being dependent upon imagination, initiative, enthusiasm, inspiration, and originality, first in the teacher, then by infection, in the students. A man of fire who vastly preferred an informal discussion in the front room of his home to stiff class sessions, he constantly

864