[Vol50 | October | Magazine Page 732 | PDF Page 763]
[Title: He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part V — President Joseph F. Smith]

--- PAGE 731 (PDF page 762) ---
desire to live according to the best light within them. Love and good will to all found expression in their hearts and actions, and their children were imbued with like sentiments. They were firm believers in God and trusted in his watchcare over his children. They had frequently received manifestations of his loving kindness in dreams, visions and inspirations, and God had healed their little ones in answer to prayer when they were nigh unto death. It was in such an atmosphere that the boy was reared. Joseph was a remarkably quiet and well disposed child who gave his parents little or no trouble. At an early age of eight, he gave proof that besides being thoughtful, easily governed and of sweet and loving disposition, he possessed the foundation principles of a good character, filial affection, patience, endurance, courage.

"Concerning his spiritual manifestations, is it reasonable to suppose that there could have been premeditated deceit on the part of the boy, and such a boy, in his simple statement of what he saw and heard? No; neither could the answer which the heavenly messenger gave to him, have been composed in the child's own mind. Joseph Smith's testimony concerning his heavenly manifestation, in later life, was as simple, straight-forward, plain and true, as it had been in childhood; the fidelity, courage and love implanted in his character in his life in boyhood neither faltered or changed with maturity. His wisdom came in revelations of God to him" (Improvement Era, December 1917, page 167).

God, it will be by his authority. I bear my testimony to it; I know that it is true" (The Improvement Era, Vol. 14, November 1910, page 74).

"To me there is a sweet fascination in the contemplation of his [Joseph Smith's] childhood and youth. I love to contemplate the innocence and the artless simplicity of his boyhood. It bears record that he was honest, that he was led by the spirit of God to perform his wonderful mission. How could a child at his age be impelled by other than honest motives in the accomplishment of his high and holy calling? What he did he was led to do by the inspiration and guidance of his Heavenly Father, of this I feel assured.

"He was much like other children; his play was like that of his companions; his thoughts like those of most children, were innocent, and consequently he was incapable of the knavery and connivance that his enemies declared he practiced.

"Though poor, his parents were honest and good; they delighted in the truth, and it was their honest

PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH

733

--- PAGE 732 (PDF page 763) ---
A Message to Young Mothers

Mary M. Ellsworth

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman with 1950s-style hair and clothing, looking downward]

Your search for a magic, effortless solution, or for a fairy godmother who could lift all your problems from your shoulders, has been in vain. Now it is time to assess your situation honestly and realistically. You are no longer a baby living in a plush, self-centered world, having no responsibilities or unfulfilled desires. You are the center of your own very real and very earnest adult world. You must do for yourself what no one else is able to do for you. You must tackle the terribly hard, never-ending, tedious, discouraging job of self-mastery for yourself and by yourself. Relatives and neighbors can sympathize and advise and encourage, but you must lay the groundwork.

Your earnest help will come from the Lord, the only person who actually comprehends human behavior patterns in general and your unique combination in particular. Stay close to him through prayer and faith and blessings. Put your trust in him and practice leaving your worries in his hands. Don't take them to him and then bring them away with you, so you are just as worried and unhappy as before.

*Condensed and abridged from "If Not Me, Who? If Not Now, When?"

734

--- PAGE 733 (PDF page 764) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

CHILDREN OF HOMER AND MARY MADSEN ELLSWORTH

Clockwise: Larry, four; Patrice, nine; Homer, seven; Richard, thirteen; Elise, twelve; Ellen, twelve; Duffy, six. Center: Tina, fifteen; Mary, sixteen.

If the worries come back, take them to him over and over, until at last you have peace.

Give the following self-help pointers a mighty try. And when you fail and are discouraged, give them another try and another:

1. Don't expect any more of yourself than you do of others. Be patient and tolerant of yourself. Your goals should be high and challenging — but not impossible.

2. Take one thing at a time. Do not allow your mind to become a whip that races through an endless list of undone jobs. Move through life in "second gear," at an easy, measured pace, taking on just one job at a time and no other. When it is finished, go on to the next. Refuse to be hurried. Actually, you will accomplish more this way and with less wasted energy. A bright, early start after a full night's sleep is a big advantage toward a calm day.

3. Keep your life simple. Refuse

735

--- PAGE 734 (PDF page 765) ---
OCTOBER 1963

to be pushed into more outside activity than you can handle. "The things that matter most should not be at the mercy of the things that matter least." Allowing unessentials or lesser responsibilities to crowd out duties toward family, Church, and basic convictions will invariably lead to guilt feelings. They, in turn, enhance irritations and swell into "blue" moods.

4. Develop not only simplicity in your way of life, but in your choice of pleasures and enjoyments, also. Train yourself to appreciate the free, ample beauties and marvels and joys all about you, in nature, for instance. Make a hobby of studying and liking people.

5. Realize that you can, with prayer and faith and determination, change yourself — if you really want to change more than you want to remain as you are. For example, a person may wish to become mature, unselfish, uncomplaining; however, she may desire to be pitied, sympathized with, and helped more. She cannot bring herself to give up a clinging, dependent, baby-hope role for an independent, self-sufficient one. Here is the crux of the task of changing oneself: desire is the most essential ingredient.

6. Exercise regularly, or go walking or swimming, when possible. Often when you feel all you need is rest, systematic exercise will do more good. It will result in fewer aches and pains and weak and strained muscles. It gives a feeling of well-being and vitality. The end product is more energy, rather than less.

Try to get eight hours of sleep each night and fifteen-minute rests during the day. Following overexertion, take leisurely time to baths; deliberately relax each part of the body to complete limpness. Deep breathing, also, is beneficial for a healthy emotional state. Many people find lying on a slant board or in a position which props the legs and feet higher than the head excellent for repose and for increased circulation to the face and scalp.

Don't forget that your physical and emotional conditions are so deeply entwined that the one always strongly affects the other. Very often when an illness occurs, it cannot be determined what the initial cause was — the physical or the emotional.

The more distraught you become, the greater is your need to force yourself to exercise, eat three balanced meals a day, stay on a schedule which will keep your mind occupied and off yourself, and get plenty of undisturbed rest.

Most important: picture yourself as being well. This does not counsel you to neglect real health problems. It merely suggests that a person may easily develop the habit of minutely examining herself for possible disorders which, in time, her imagination may accommodatingly provide.

7. Don't allow yourself to be "carried away" by your emotions. You can nip them in the bud or let them barrel into a fast-moving avalanche. Don't try to push a thought or feeling out of your mind. This process will only make it stick all the tighter. Instead, force a smile, or sing, "play-act" the part of serenity.

756