[Vol50 | January | Magazine Page 30 | PDF Page 33]
[Title: Award Winners — Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest]

--- PAGE 29 (PDF page 32) ---
THE TENDER KISS

"WHAT do you mean, you didn't rear me right?" Nancy demanded. "No girl ever had a nicer rearing than I did. I loved every minute of it."

Mom sighed. "I know. There should have been lots of minutes you hated, lots of minutes in which you were learning to stand on your own feet, fighting your own battles; but somehow—you were such a cute little trick and so much younger and so lovable — somehow your father and I never saw our way to interfering when your older brothers and sisters smoothed the way for you. Which one has the babies today?"

"Linda." Nancy answered obediently, but her thoughts were whirling. What did Mom mean? She had never talked like this before!

"Yes, it would be Linda. She added your three to her four at a busy time of the year so you could do what?"

"The washing and bake bread. But, Mom, you know perfectly well I'll baby sit for her in return. I always do."

"Yes — when your work's done up so you can give all your time to it. Or when one of Sue's girls is visiting you so she can amuse the children." Then, as she looked up and saw Nancy's stricken face, she added gently, "I'm not saying this to hurt you, child. But ever since John proposed taking you off on your own, I've been thinking how poorly we who love you so much have prepared you for the responsibilities of being a wife and mother."

"But, Mom, I don't ask anyone to help me. They just do!"

"I know. You're such a dear, it's a pleasure to help you — a selfish pleasure in which we, your doting family, have overindulged. And now I'm wondering," here the busy hands were stilled and Mom looked earnestly at her daughter, "if your being such a dear didn't influence John's decision. I thought he was very enthusiastic over the Hawaiian job. Are you sure he wants to stay?"

"Of course I'm sure. It's the promotion that counts — not the place."

"I'm glad." Mom bent again to her task. "It's worried me, thinking of you having another baby so soon, way off there by yourself, with Terry scarcely out of diapers and the twins still a year out of kindergarten. Of course, someone of us would have flown out and given you a hand when your time came, but still. . . ."

Nancy laughed shakily. "And here you were just talking about making me a responsible mother." She jumped off the stool. "I mustn't stick around chatting. I just came to tell you the news. I could have phoned, but I wanted to see your face — I guess. 'Bye now. I have to pick up the children."

Somehow, she made it to the car, drove around the circle and up the road until she was out of sight of the house. Then she pulled over on the shoulder and shut off the ignition with trembling fingers.

So that was it! No one thought she was capable of taking care of her own family! And even worse — she hadn't thought so, either! She had shrunk from the prospect

31

--- PAGE 30 (PDF page 33) ---
JANUARY 1963

of having to try. Was she really such a poor excuse for a wife and mother? Why hadn't she thrilled with the prospect of adventure as Uncle Gideon and Aunt Martha had done? Could it be that she was so soft and dependent that adventure had no appeal for her?

How did her home and her management of it differ from Linda's or Sue's — or for that matter, from that of any of her brothers' wives? Scene after scene flashed through Nancy's mind: Sue's well-ordered household, Tom's, David's, Jerry's. But their children were all older. Only Linda, who had married late, had young ones like Nancy's. Who helped Linda? She rarely seemed to need any help. No matter whom Nancy thought of, she found nothing to compare with the constant assistance her own household seemed to require — or at least receive — from the family.

"But I could do it myself — if I had to!" she cried, silently beating her fists on the steering wheel. "It wasn't the case they put into my life that made me want to stay here. I know it wasn't! I love my family. I'd die in a strange place — alone."

Alone! How could she even think the word alone when John would be with her! "Forsaking all others" — that was what real marriage meant, wasn't it?

Did she and John have a real marriage — the kind that had its roots in mutual understanding and trust? They had a home and children — but did they have a marriage? Or had John done the very thing she had denied? Had he let his decision be influenced by — Nancy winced at her own blunt thoughts — her dependence on her family? He had seemed satisfied to stay when he was trying to protect her. So he would never let on to her. So how could she know the truth?

She went over last night's announcement again. Why had she felt from the first there was some flaw in it? He had sounded so convincing — just like Dad explaining how things had to be — and then he had given her a tender kiss....

That kiss! It was the kiss a father gives a child. It wasn't a bit like the kiss John had given her when he told her about the Hawaiian opening a month ago!

Nancy's head dropped forward onto the steering wheel, and for a few moments she wept unashamedly for the happy, unconcerned child she would be leaving beside the road. Then she dried her eyes, powdered her nose, and drove decisively on to Linda's to pick up her children, her mind already absorbed with the myriad problems of packing.

Note: For a biographical sketch of Edith Larson, see page 25.

32

--- PAGE 31 (PDF page 34) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

DR. VIRGINIA CUTLER of Brigham Young University, and author of this year's Relief Society work meeting discussions, was one of two American delegates who attended the World Forum of Women in Brussels, Belgium, in November. She was invited to the Forum by the president of the International Assembly of Women. Dr. Cutler presented a paper on the role of the school as an aid to bring about better understanding among the nations.

REPRESENTATIVE KATHRYN E. GRANAHAN, Democrat of Pennsylvania, has been chosen by President John F. Kennedy as Treasurer of the United States. Upon the death of her husband, Representative William T. Granahan, in 1956, Mrs. Granahan was appointed to complete his term. She was re-elected to the last two terms of Congress. Mrs. Granahan succeeds Mrs. Elizabeth Smith Gatov as Treasurer.

GERALDYN M. (JERRY) COBB, thirty-one, who has been flying since she was twelve, holds four world's records in aeronautics, and is a consultant to NASA. She is among the thirteen present women candidates for astronaut.

MISS RADIE BRITTAIN, a native Texan now living in Hollywood, is the distinguished young American composer of "Southern Symphony," "Light of the World," and "Bondage." For "Heroic Poem" she won the Hollywood Bowl International Prize and, in 1945, became the first woman to receive the Juilliard Publication Award. Recently she won first prize in a world-wide contest for women composers with "Nizan, The Third Day," for women's chorus, piano, and string orchestra. Kate Hammond wrote the religious text. The subject refers to Christ's third day in the tomb.

GERALDINE STUTZ, thirty-eight years old, former editor of Glamour magazine, became president of New York's Henri Bendel, Inc., fashion emporium, five years ago. At the time it was in rather difficult financial straits. It is now solidly in the black.

33

--- PAGE 32 (PDF page 35) ---
EDITORIAL

VOL. 50                                    JANUARY 1963                                    NO. 1

THE Relief Society Magazine is the official publication of the women of the Church, published and directed by the General Board of Relief Society. It is a unique publication, grateful and proud that it is a different Magazine, that it makes no claim to be like any other publication. Its purpose has not changed over the years, although its contents and make-up have many times been adjusted to meet the varying needs of the times and the facilities available for enhancing the attractiveness of the publication.

How could The Relief Society Magazine be a facsimile of any other publication — why should anyone desire that it should be so? The Magazine represents Relief Society, both in its historic aspects and in its present greatly enlarged scope and distribution. Just as Relief Society is a unique organization — organized, and in its early days, directed by the Prophet Joseph Smith — so the Magazine is unique, keeping always the same purpose, but being a voice to reach the tens of thousands who now constitute the world-wide sisterhood.

The Magazine links the sister-hood in verisimilitude of purpose and program — assisting in the fields of inspiration, education, and service. The Magazine is the voice that links the past with the ever-expanding present. It is as a tree remembering the depth and strength of its roots, yet rejoicing in the number of its branches and the shining glory of its leaves.

It is interesting to realize that the Magazine — the messenger — the far-reaching voice — enters the homes of sisters in many lands. It is a cause for much gratitude to know that women of the palms in the Pacific islands, women of the New Zealand hamlets, women of the Australian cities and towns, women of the historic English villages and towered cities — members wherever there is an understanding of English, are joined together in purpose by the Magazine. Transcending the borders and barriers of nations and of continents, the Magazine carries far and wide a uniting voice.

The Magazine, moreover, speaks to women in various phases of their lives. To the young sister, newly married, it brings a broad and

34