[Vol50 | January | Magazine Page 62 | PDF Page 65]
[Title: Theology]

--- PAGE 61 (PDF page 64) ---
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES

Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Message 47 — "It Is Not Meet That I Should Command in All Things"
(D & C 58:26).

Christine H. Robinson

For First Week, April 1963

Objective: To emphasize the fact that it is through the exercise of free agency that we develop initiative and self-reliance.

FREE agency is a fundamental part of the gospel, in fact a war was fought in heaven over it.

Our Father in heaven counsels us to pattern our lives on right principles. He has given us laws and commandments as guides, which, if followed, will assure us happiness in this life and joy in the world to come. Nevertheless, he allows us to exercise our own judgment and free agency in the application of these principles and in following these commandments. Only in this way can we learn, grow, and progress. One purpose of free agency is to enable us to develop sufficient initiative that we will not need to be commanded in all things.

In fact, when the Prophet Joseph Smith was asked how he governed his people he replied, "I teach them correct principles, and they govern themselves."

This wise principle of living was also emphasized by the Savior in his parable of the unprofitable servants. In this parable Jesus asked, "Doth he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him?" The Savior responded in the negative to his own inquiry and then added: "So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants: we have done that which was our duty to do" (Luke 17:10).

Not only should we follow the Lord's specific commandments, but to be profitable servants, we should go the extra mile and use initiative and free agency in doing good and in living true Christian lives.

One reason why our Father in heaven encourages us to exercise our free will and judgment is so that we can develop confidence and self-reliance.

There is an old story which states that some of the ancient alchemists believed that if they could find one special element they could change some of the common baser metals into pure gold; but this rare element always eluded them.

A similar rare element of character, however, need not be so elusive. This important character element is self-reliance in combination with

63

--- PAGE 62 (PDF page 65) ---
JANUARY 1963

humility. In order to build successful lives we must have confidence and self-reliance in our own Godgiven talents and abilities.

Plato said, "Take charge of your lives, you can do with them what you will." In his wisdom he knew that those who were self-reliant sought constantly to discover and overcome their own shortcomings which kept them from accomplishing the things they were capable of doing.

Someone has wisely said, "No man has made a great success of life or a fit preparation for immortality by doing merely his duty," and The Doctrine and Covenants states, ". . . for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward" (D & C 58:26).

President Henry D. Moyle expressed this thought beautifully when he said, "We ourselves must act. We must initiate our own search for truth of our own free will. Once we do, the Lord magnifies us, fills our souls with his holy spirit . . ." (CR, October 1959, page 93).

Let us follow the admonition of the Lord and do many things of our own free will, "and bring to pass much righteousness," for the Lord has said, "For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward" (D & C 58:27-28).

WORK MEETING

The Latter-day Saint Home

(A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)

Discussion 7 – The Latter-day Saint Home Exemplifies Thrift

Dr. Virginia F. Cutler

For Second Meeting, April 1963

Objective: To show that a family can know the feeling of security through work and the wise use of resources.

THE main ideas of this discussion are given through the use of a flip chart.* The four messages for the chart follow:

1. Keep out of the deficit spending trap. Plan your budget on your terms.

2. Avoid revolving credit. Consider costs of using other people's money.

*A flip chart has messages written and illustrated on large sheets of white wrapping paper or cardboard and fastened together on a stick and hung on an easel. As one message is given, the sheet is flipped over for the next.

64

--- PAGE 63 (PDF page 66) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

2. Watch that garbage can. Use resources wisely.
4. Add many dollars to your income through thrifty home management.

The Family Values Test in the first discussion started out with checking the family value of security. Keeping out of debt, wise use of resources, a nest egg for a rainy day, and a high credit and character rating are listed as essential for realizing this value. The trap of deficit spending is keeping a great many families from knowing the meaning of security under these terms. Deficit spenders don't have to keep a budget; their money is spent automatically through unvarying monthly payments.

Through motivation research, the business world has learned ways to help the family get rid of the rest of the paycheck in a similar withholding pattern. We are urged to take two vacations a year, to buy a second car, to sign for a package mortgage on all the known gadgets. Pay after you get is the mode, and the paycheck is spent before it is earned.

The optimism of some newly married couples is astounding. They assume there will be a continually expanding economy and that future prosperity will retroactively pay for today, and there is no sense in self-denial. If a dealer reports that financing can be arranged through a local bank, they relax their guard completely and debt starts on a path which often becomes the perpetual family street. Deficit spending operates largely to ill prepare people to insensitivity and more debt. Thrift, initiative, challenge, and struggle are words that will gradual-

ly become obsolete if this trend continues.

Revolving credit is deficit spending carried to its ultimate conclusion. It is allowed by retailers to people who do not rate a charge account. A family might be given a $200 credit limit which must be paid off in regular installments with a 1 to 1½ per cent monthly interest charge on the unpaid balance. Once the family gets into this trap, they seldom get out, for they always like to be bought up to the limit. The family is paying annually a twelve to eighteen per cent interest charge for this convenience.

Some homemakers throw money out of the back door by way of the garbage can faster than it comes in the front door. Through careful management, use of leftovers, and perhaps producing some food, it would be possible to save money that could help the family budget.

A Ph.D. study was made by Marie Geraldine Gage at Cornell University in 1960. She found that unpaid-for services that replace bought goods and hired help can add many dollars to the family's real income. How do you replace bought goods for services? The one big answer is work — with everyone in the family contributing his share. If you don't have money to buy:

A washing machine, you use a plunger, or a washboard and elbow grease;
T-bone steaks, you use cheaper sources of protein and more time and effort;
Tickets to the World Fair, make your own fun in the back yard;
A new dress, make something new from something old;
New cupboards for the kitchen, use some packing boxes, a saw, a hammer and nails.

65

--- PAGE 64 (PDF page 67) ---
JANUARY 1963

The list could be endless, but to summarize:

The homemaker who knows the meaning of thrift, who knows how to budget money and keep expenditures within the income, and who knows how to save here and save there, can add many dollars to the family's resources, and, at the same time, she can teach her family how to keep out of the deficit-spending trap.

The Latter-day Saint family believes in the old-fashioned virtue of thrift, in making a budget on their own terms, planning the use of resources, keeping out of debt, except for such major expenditures as a home or education, and, in having a nest egg for a rainy day. They are more interested in giving than

in getting; they pay their tithes and offerings before thinking of their own material wants. They give their services to the Church and community and send their children to schools and on missions. Through the years, they find themselves on prosperity street, instead of on mortgage row.

Questions for Discussion

1. Give concrete examples of ways in which homemakers have been able to add dollars to the family income through care of clothing, the home, and its furnishings.

2. How can we get some production back into the home, not only for saving money, but for personal development? For example: home food production and preservation, clothing construction, and furniture making.

Attention Work Meeting Discussion Leaders

NOTE ON ERROR IN DISCUSSION 5 (for February 1963) — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (part 1), published in November 1962 issue, page 854.

Correct measurements for making furniture polish: ⅛ boiled linseed oil and ⅞ turpentine.

Morning Prayer

Eva Willes Wangsgaard

There's something special in each new morning:
A child's quick laughter, a letter,
A whiff of fragrance, a chirp of warning,
An eye's gay sparkle, or better.

There's something especially for my learning
Which makes me richer for being.
So one brief prayer I shape for day's turning:
"Oh, give me vision for seeing!"

66