[Vol50 | October | Magazine Page 747 | PDF Page 778]
[Title: Dinner in Advance]

--- PAGE 746 (PDF page 777) ---
STRETCHING
the Food Budget

Part II - Evaporated Milk

Marion Bennion, Ph.D., Chairman, Department of Food and Nutrition
Sadie O. Morris, Ph.D., Department of Food and Nutrition
Brigham Young University

MILK may be concentrated by removing part of the water from it. Evaporated milk is whole milk which has had about half of the water removed, after which it has been sealed in a can and sterilized. Most of the evaporated milks on the market have had vitamin D added to them to increase the nutritive value of the milk.

A similar amount of water to that which has been removed in processing may be returned to the milk, and the milk may then be used in any way that whole milk might have been used, as a beverage or in food preparation. Since the milk has been heated to a high temperature for sterilization, the flavor will be somewhat changed but is still acceptable, even as a beverage. Usually equal amounts of water and evaporated milk are mixed to give a milk about equal to whole milk.

Evaporated milk may be used without the addition of any water in many recipes. Because it is concentrated, it gives more creamy, smooth characteristics to many foods than does regular milk. Soups, gravies, sauces, casserole dishes, puddings, all have a richer flavor and creamier texture when made with evaporated milk.

As with dry milk, the nutritive value of some recipes may be actually increased by using evaporated milk in its original form. For example, bread may be made with different proportions of evaporated milk and water. The nutrients especially increased by the use of evaporated milk are calcium, riboflavin, and good quality protein. The following chart shows the change in calcium and riboflavin when a loaf of white enriched bread is made with different proportions of evaporated milk and water.

748

--- PAGE 747 (PDF page 778) ---
[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a smiling woman with shoulder-length hair and a bow, holding what appears to be a glass or cup]

Calcium    Riboflavin
(mg.)      (mg.)

1/4 evap. milk
1/4 water                494        1.3
2/3 evap. milk
1/3 water               462        1.4
3/4 evap. milk
1/4 water               524        1.6

The texture, color, and flavor of the bread will be somewhat different from that made with less milk or all water. The color will be more creamy and the bread more moist and less crumbly.

When evaporated milk is chilled icy cold it may be whipped and used in fruit whips, Bavarian creams, salads, refrigerator desserts, and toppings. The addition of two teaspoons of lemon juice for each 1/3 cup evaporated milk will give a more stable whipped topping and also such a pleasing flavor.

While evaporated milk may be stored for several months, it is recommended that the can or carton be turned upside down about every month. This prevents thickening and clotting of the milk. Since evaporated milk has been sterilized, it is a safe food supply. In the unopened can

it may be kept for long periods of time without refrigeration, but as soon as the can is opened it must be kept in the refrigerator like any other milk.

Evaporated Milk Recipes

White Bread

1/2 c. + 1 tbsp. warm water
1 1/2 tbsp. sugar
1 1/2 tsp. salt
1/2 pkg. yeast, dry or compressed
1 tbsp. oil or soft shortening
* 1/2 c. + 1 tbsp. evaporated milk
1 1/2 c. flour, plus enough additional flour to make a soft dough that leaves the sides of the bowl.

Measure lukewarm water and sugar into large mixing bowl. Crumble compressed or dry yeast into mixture. (Use warm water 110-115° F with active dry yeast.) Stir and dissolve. Add salt, shortening, and milk. Sift flour and add to first ingredients and mix together thoroughly. Add enough additional flour to make a soft dough (approximately 2-2 1/4 c.). Then dough leaves the sides of the bowl, turn it out onto a lightly floured board and knead until smooth and elastic. It should no longer stick to board. Shape into ball

749

--- PAGE 748 (PDF page 779) ---
and place in clean bowl, grease lightly on top, and allow to rise until double in bulk. Bake in preheated oven at 400° F. for about 35 minutes. Turn out of pan when baked and cool on racks.

*For additional nutritive value, the amount of evaporated milk may be increased, at the same time decreasing the amount of warm water and flour as shown below:

B. ¾ c. warm water
   ¾ c. evaporated milk
   2¾ c. flour

C. ¼ c. warm water
   ½ c. + 2 tbsp. evaporated milk
   2½ c. flour

Oatmeal Bread (no knead)

2 pkg. active dry yeast
½ c. warm water
½ c. boiling water
1 c. quick cooking rolled oats
½ c. molasses
⅓ c. shortening
1 tbsp. salt
*1 c. evaporated milk
2 slightly beaten eggs
6 c. sifted flour

Soften yeast in warm water. In large bowl combine boiling water with rolled oats, molasses, shortening, and salt. Cool to lukewarm. Stir in 2 c. sifted flour, add eggs and evaporated milk, beat well. Stir in softened yeast. Add remaining flour, 2 c. at a time, to make moderately stiff dough. Beat until smooth and gluten is developed. Grease lightly on top, cover tightly, and refrigerate at least 2 hours or overnight. Turn out onto well floured board, shape into 2 loaves, put in loaf pans. Let double in bulk. Bake about 40 minutes at 375° F. Turn out of pans when baked and cool on racks.

*If nonfat dry milk is used in place of evaporated milk, use ⅓ c. regular nonfat dry milk (or ⅔ c. instant nonfat dry milk) and increase boiling water from ½c. to 1⅓ c.

Macaroni Supreme

1 c. macaroni
1½ tbsp. margarine or butter

2 tbsp. flour
½ tsp. salt
¾ c. hot water (or liquid off vegetables)
¾ c. evaporated milk
1½ c. grated cheddar cheese, sharp
4 hard-cooked eggs, sliced

Cook macaroni in boiling water until tender; drain. Melt margarine in saucepan; add flour and salt and stir. Cook until bubbly. Quickly add hot water, stirring constantly; bring mixture quickly to a boil. Remove from heat and stir in evaporated milk. Return to heat and bring back to boiling point and cook about 2 minutes over moderate heat. Remove from heat and add grated cheese. Place over low heat and stir until blended. Place macaroni in greased baking dish, cover with sliced eggs, and add cheese sauce. Sprinkle buttered crumbs over top. Brown in moderate oven, 375° F., for 20-25 minutes. Yield: six servings.

Old-Fashioned
Butterscotch Pudding

½ c. brown sugar
½ cup less 1 tbsp. granulated sugar
¼ c. flour
¼ tsp. salt
½ c. water
¾ c. evaporated milk
2 eggs
¼ c. water
1 tbsp. butter or substitute
½ tsp. vanilla

Mix together sugar, flour, and salt. Add ½ c. water and blend until smooth. Add evaporated milk. Place on burner and bring to boiling, stirring constantly. Cook about 2 minutes over moderate heat. Meanwhile, beat the eggs with ¼ c. water. Add the egg-water mixture to the cooked starch paste and blend. Cook over low heat for 3-4 minutes until egg is cooked. Remove from heat; add butter and vanilla. Pour into serving dishes and chill. Garnish with whipped topping and nuts or a cherry. Or, one egg white may be saved to use as a meringue on top of the pudding. For meringue, gradually beat in 2 tbsp. sugar and whip until stiff. Place meringue on top of each pudding and heat in 400° F. oven until lightly browned. Yield: 4-5 servings.

750

--- PAGE 749 (PDF page 780) ---
Ironing Out the Wrinkles

Maxine T. Grimm

[ILLUSTRATION: Red iron]

WHAT are you thinking about when you wash your dishes? What are you thinking about when you iron the wrinkles out of your husband's shirt, when you scrub the floor, when you make the beds?

I have a habit of making up sermons. Some may not be too good, but I always take the main theme from my project at hand.

Now this is sort of the pattern of my thinking — ironing out the wrinkles.

As my steam iron tackles the wrinkles of my son's trousers, I think of the many wrinkles we have in our lives to iron out. There is the wrinkle of worry — this is such a waste of time — worrying about the accident that may befall one of the children, worrying about the new dress that has to be finished, worrying about correspondence that is way past due — worrying about a meeting that you should attend — about a lesson that you have to prepare.

This list could go on forever, because there are plenty of things to worry about. However, maybe if you made a list of the things you are worrying about, posted it at hand in the kitchen, and then, one by one, started chalking them off, the procedure would be helpful. I think perhaps when you start writing some of them you will realize how foolish you are to worry about so many things that you can't do anything about.

Worrying takes energy, and it can cause headaches, chronic illness, and certainly an unhappy home. As a young girl, I always memorized poetry while ironing.

Many of you watch television, but I rather like this idea of philosophizing — I have plenty of wrinkles that need ironing out. Maybe its gossip, maybe selfishness, maybe jealousy — there are endless wrinkles to be ironed out.

I have come to think of household tasks as my best thinking time. Normally, the task at hand that you dislike the most is the one that you don't have to concentrate on — one that gives no real challenge to the mind — so now use this time, which is usually worry time, to iron out the wrinkles in your lives.

Count Your Blessings - Not Troubles

Ursula King Bell

Count your blessings — not your troubles,
Talk about the good things of life to others,
Not your problems, for all have enough to endure.
Endeavor to keep your mind and hands busy,
With useful work and pleasant thoughts.

751