[Vol50 | January | Magazine Page 17 | PDF Page 20]
[Title: Support the Morale of Dinner]

--- PAGE 16 (PDF page 19) ---
Anne R. Gledhill Appointed to the General Board

Vesta P. Crawford
Associate Editor, The Relief Society Magazine

[PHOTOGRAPH]

ANNE ROBINSON GLEDHILL

ANNE ROBINSON GLEDHILL was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, November 14, 1962. She has accepted this call with the same devotion to service that has marked her many other responsibilities in the auxiliaries of the Church.

She was born in Beaver, Utah, the eighth child of ten children born to Frank Bernard Robinson and Retta Baldwin Robinson. She lived in Beaver until 1928, when her family moved to Los Angeles, California. She was married to Clifford Ovi Gledhill in the Salt Lake Temple, April 3, 1939. The young couple then moved to Susanville, California, where their three children were born. Susan, the eldest daughter, is living in Provo, where her husband Verl Thoman Doman is a student at Brigham Young University. They have a son Kevin, four months old. Bette and Rhett are twins, aged twenty. Bette is attending Brigham Young University, and Rhett is on a mission in Hawaii. The family moved from Susanville to Los Angeles in 1945, and to Salt Lake City in 1952.

Sister Gledhill has recently returned from presiding over the Relief Societies in the Great Lakes Mission, where her husband was mission president. In her Relief Society work in the mission, Sister Gledhill was successful in organizing many new Societies and in spreading and implementing the Relief Society message, as well as vigorously directing the program.

Sister Gledhill began her Church work in young womanhood and has had much executive experience in all the auxiliaries open to women. She has served in both stake and ward capacities and is a competent executive and an inspirational teacher. She has been a counselor in ward Relief Societies and is well acquainted with all the departments of the Relief Society program.

To her new position, Anne Gledhill brings experience, devotion, and a marked ability for leadership. Her lovable personality, the ease with which she makes friends, her diligence and enthusiasm will make her a valued and beloved member of the General Board and will endear her to the women of the Church.

18

--- PAGE 17 (PDF page 20) ---
Belva Barlow Appointed to the General Board

Oscar W. McConkie, Jr.
First Counselor, University Stake Presidency

[PHOTOGRAPH]
BELVA BARLOW

BELVA Barlow comes to the General Board of the Relief Society with unusual qualifications. Her appointment came the 14th day of November, 1962.

Sister Barlow was my Relief Society president in the University Fourth Ward. To a bishop, this statement is made with profound gratitude and a sense of reverence born of the compassion that this position has come to mean.

Belva Barlow was foreordained to her calling. Born to Israel and A. Belva Welling Barlow in East Mill Creek, Utah, such Church service came naturally to the maternal great-granddaughter of the one selected by the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo to serve as the first treasurer of the Relief Society in this dispensation, Elvira A. Cowles.

Sister Barlow is prepared for her calling scholastically, professionally, and in character. Before her graduation with honors from the University of Utah, she was elected to five honorary and service organizations. As debate manager she participated in national debate tournaments throughout the United States. Her professional experience includes schoolteaching; employment in Senator Arthur V. Watkin's office in the Nation's Capital; and present work for the world-renowned scientist and Dean of the University of Utah Graduate School, Dr. Henry Eyring.

Her character was forged in the fires of Church activities: stake missionary in Washington, D.C.; ward YWMIA president; ward Relief Society president; First Counselor in the University Stake Relief Society.

By virtue of proper preparation and past performance, the General Board of the Relief Society may expect significant contributions from Sister Barlow. She brings the vibrance of youth to her calling. Her service as counselor in the presidency of the University Stake Relief Society, with its nine ward organizations composed exclusively of college girls, gives voice in the high councils to the freshest innovation and youngest Relief Societies in the Church. Her wholehearted acceptance of this latest call brings energizing effect to the oldest of all auxiliaries in the kingdom of God.

19

--- PAGE 18 (PDF page 21) ---
Zola J. McGhie Appointed to the General Board

Emma Marr Peterson

ONE would never suspect the presence of the tremendous wealth of artistic talent hidden under the calm, modest demeanor of Zola Jacobs McGhie, called to be a member of the General Board of Relief Society, November 14, 1962.

Zola was born to pioneer parents on a ranch in the Snake River Valley, the twelfth in a family of thirteen children.

This little girl sang for President Joseph F. Smith when only three years of age in a stake conference meeting, where he was in attendance, and she has continued to use this talent, as well as many others, until the present time. Her entire family was musical and, for recreation, took part in quartets, trios, and duets.

As she grew older, Zola played leading parts in local school plays and musicals. She set high standards of achievement for herself from earliest childhood, and worked gladly to pay for lessons in music. At one time, her father turned over to her an acre of ground with sufficient beet seed to produce a crop, the sale of which might be used for music lessons. She planted, cared for, and harvested the crop and was thus able to obtain the best lessons available.

She had a number of flattering offers of a musical career from various sources, and, after moving to Salt Lake City, she did a great deal

[PHOTOGRAPH]

ZOLA JACOBS McGHIE

of operatic and oratorio work, often playing the leading roles. She sang in the Tabernacle Choir for twenty years.

Brother and Sister McGhie have three children, Sylvia Eagar (Mrs. Todd), Cherie Sorensen (Mrs. Keith), and Frank Lynn.

Sister McGhie has been a teacher and stake board member in the auxiliaries and served five years in Church work in Hawaii. She was serving as first counselor in the Bonneville Ward Relief Society at the time of her appointment to the General Board.

She approaches each and every task with sincere and humble prayer, intense study, and as much preparation as is possible. Truly, the Relief Society will be richer in having obtained the unique talents of Zola Jacobs McGhie.

20

--- PAGE 19 (PDF page 22) ---
Award Winners

The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1962 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1962 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and closed August 15, 1962.

The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Miranda Snow Walton, El Monte, California, for her poem "Some Late Evening." The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Roxana Farnsworth Hase, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Sego Lilies." The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Dorothy J. Roberts, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Attic Rain."

This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and inspirational leader.

The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry.

Prize-winning poems are the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the General Board. The General Board also reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

Mrs. Walton appears for the fourth time as a winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Mrs. Hase is a third-time winner in the contest; and Mrs. Roberts has been a winner six times.

There were 298 poems entered in the contest for 1962. Entries were received from forty of the fifty states, with the largest number, in order, coming from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, Washington, and Oregon. Canada, England, Mexico, New Zealand, and Australia were also represented among the entries.

The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes also to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated.

The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are published in this issue of the Magazine.

Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest

21