[Vol50 | February | Magazine Page 148 | PDF Page 155]
[Title: Literature — The Challenge of Walt Whitman]

--- PAGE 147 (PDF page 154) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

The New Nation's New Poet

During the late 1840's and early 1850's Whitman became increasingly aware of the unique destiny his country was to fulfill. Never such a combination of cultures existed before, free from the withering restraints of entrenched privileges. Never had the common man been so favored, so near to achieving those high goals of which mankind had always dreamed; never had man's potential divinity seemed so near attainment. "The Americans, of all nations, at any time upon the earth have probably the fullest poetical nature. The United States themselves are essentially the greatest poem," he wrote in 1855. He believed fervently that there is "nothing in the known universe more divine than men and women and the woman equal with the man." Whitman made equality the keystone of great poetry:

Come to us on equal terms. Only then can you understand us. We are no better than you are. What we enclose you enclose, what we enjoy you may enjoy (Preface to Leaves of Grass).

With rare sensibility Whitman sought to catch the overtones of all facets of life in vigorous, expanding, young America. In "I Hear America Singing" he records in poetic symbol the varied songs that he hears:

I HEAR AMERICA SINGING

I hear America singing, the varied carols I hear,
Those of mechanics, each one singing his as it should be, blithe and strong,
The carpenter singing his as he measures his plank or beam,
The mason singing his as he makes ready for work, or leaves off work,
The boatman singing what belongs to him in his boat, the deckhand singing on the steamboat deck,
The shoemaker singing as he sits on his bench, the hatter singing as he stands,
The wood-cutter's song, the ploughboy's on his way in the morning, or at noon intermission or at sundown,
The delicious singing of the mother, or of the young wife at work, or of the girl sewing or washing,
Each singing what belongs to him or her and to none else,
The day what belongs to the day—at night the party of young fellows, robust, friendly,
Singing with open mouths their strong melodious songs.
                                        (From Leaves of Grass)

"Leaves of Grass"

His first volume of poetry, entitled Leaves of Grass, was published by Whitman in 1855. It was a large paged, thin volume, comprising a dozen untitled poems preceded by a long preface. Odd in style and format, it was original in mood, thought, wit, and wisdom. In the prose preface Whitman explained what he "was up to"—a poetic revolution. He felt, perhaps even more than did Emerson, that the new Nation needed a "new voice" to be the spokesman for all America. Whitman attempted to become that spokesman. He was convinced that this "new voice" should use new and original poetic forms. He therefore rejected the traditional forms of English verse: regular meters, rhyme, stanza patterns, elaborate similies, and allusions to the classics and Middle Ages.

Ever since Leaves of Grass ap-

149

--- PAGE 148 (PDF page 155) ---
FEBRUARY 1963

peared, it has aroused almost every type of response among Whitman's ever-increasing audience, but rarely if ever indifference. Both form and content of Whitman's poetry have been too revolutionary, too new, to move a first reader merely to mild appreciation or scorn; the reaction is usually strong and for a complexity of reasons. Sometimes repeated readings over the years have but intensified the original response; sometimes first impressions have changed. When now we may come to Whitman without opportunity to allow his versions of reality to be matured within us through time, what will our reactions be? Here lies substantial challenge indeed.

To the second edition of Leaves of Grass, which appeared in 1856, Whitman included many additional poems. In fact, throughout his life he continued to supplement, rewrite, and revise the contents of the volume. Although individual poems or groups of poems were often published separately, they were finally incorporated in the parent volume. "One's-Self I Sing," which has commonly been placed first in this collection, sums up the general theme of the poems. Here Whitman announces that he sings of "modern man," the individual common man in a democratic society.

ONE'S-SELF I SING

One's-self I sing, a simple separate person,
Yet utter the word Democratic, the word En-Masse.

Of physiology from top to toe I sing,
Not physiognomy alone nor brain alone is worthy for the
    Muse, I say the Form complete is worthier far,
The Female equally with the Male I sing.

Of Life immense in passion, pulse, and power,
Cheerful, for freest action form'd under the laws divine,
The Modern Man I sing.

Whitman was a great lover of nature, animals, cities, his America, his fellow human of all ages and ranks, and his fancy — the magnificently developed tool which enabled him to communicate this love.

He loved his poetic self-image so fully that he gave his life to its fulfillment. A large key to unraveling the complexity that is Whitman is found in the final poem in Leaves of Grass:

Good-bye my Fancy!
Farewell dear mate, dear love!
I'm going away, I know not where,
Or to what fortune, or whether I may ever see you again,
So Good-bye my Fancy. . . .
    Long indeed have we lived, slept, filter'd, become really
        blended into one;
Then if we die we die together, (yes, we'll remain one,)
If we go anywhere we'll go together to meet what happens. . . .
    now finally,
Good-bye — and hail! my Fancy.

150

--- PAGE 149 (PDF page 156) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

The joy of merely being alive has no greater exponent than Whitman. Always he praised a vigorous, healthy body, vibrant, free and unafraid. He loved for walk alone at night in nature, best of all along the beach with its booming surf. He swam often, bathed regularly, and was so spotless with his casual

white shirt open at the throat, that people meeting him for the first time often received the impression that he had just bathed, so cleanly and serenely did he glow. Throughout his life he regarded evil as a sickness and praised cleanness and ruddy health:

O to make the most jubilant song!
Full of music — full of manhood, womanhood, infancy!
Full of common employments — full of grain and trees.
— "A Song of Joy"

Afoot and light-hearted I take to the open road,
Healthy, free, the world before me,
The long brown path before me leading wherever I choose.
— "Song of the Open Road"

. . . I loved well those cities, loved well the stately and rapid river,
The men and women I saw were all near to me. . . .
I too lived, Brooklyn of ample hills was mine,
I too walk'd the streets of Manhattan island, and bathed in the waters around it. . . .
Flow on, river! flow with the flood-tide, and ebb with the ebb-tide!
Frolic on, crested and scallop-edg'd waves!
Gorgeous clouds of the sunset! drench with your splendor me,
or the men and women generations after me!
— "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry"
(Text, page 548)

Whitman's senses were so acutely alert that his sensate images are

unforgettable, and are central to his narrative gift:

Give me the splendid silent sun with all his beams full-dazzling,
Give me juicy autumnal fruit ripe and red from the orchard. . . .
Give me fresh corn and wheat, give me serene-moving animals
teaching content. . . .
— "Give Me the Splendid Silent Sun"
(Text, page 555)

Thinking of Whitman as a poet dedicated to the vigor of life, it may seem strange to find that death is the theme of his masterpieces. Yet have not love and life in all great poetry embraced the reality of death? Representative are the following: "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd" (text, page

550), "Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking" (text, page 551), and "Passage to India" (text, page 563).

The Civil War ripened Whitman's compassion for his courageous brothers on both sides of the conflict. No one has depicted this great and heroic conflict more truly:

151

--- PAGE 150 (PDF page 157) ---
FEBRUARY 1963

RECONCILIATION
(1865)

Word over all, beautiful as the sky,
Beautiful that war and all its deeds of carnage must in time
    be utterly lost,
That the hands of the sisters Death and Night incessantly
    softly wash again, and ever again, this soil'd world;
For my enemy is dead, a man divine as myself is dead,
I look where he lies white-faced and still in the coffin —
    I draw near,
Bend down and touch lightly with my lips the white face
    in the coffin.
                                        (Text, page 558)

Man is most truly himself when he is in mystical communion with something larger than himself, and above him:

... When I sitting heard the astronomer when he lectured
    with much applause in the lecture-room,
How soon unaccountable I became tired and sick,
Till rising and gliding out I wander'd off by myself,
In the mystical moist night-air, and from time to time,
Look'd up in perfect silence at the stars.
    "When I Heard the Learn'd Astronomer"
                                        (Text, page 555)

Whitman's Poetic Art

Believing that poetry exists "to indicate the path between reality and the soul," Whitman felt the poet's first great function was to bring the reader, through his senses, an experiencing of the simple, good, natural world about him, as evidence of God's universal presence. And if poetry was to do this, it must be that which it is, hence its necessary simplicity, directness, complete frankness and honesty, as opposed to traditional structures, subjects, ornamentation, and artificiality which Whitman found in all other poets.

There are those who feel that Whitman's poetic art is a mystery — unexplainable; that his way with words, the power of his phrasing is not to be defined, yet these qualities are characteristic of all great poets. In his expressive lines we find such freshness and originality as are to be found in Shakespeare, in Dante, and Homer. From his "Leaves of Grass" witness the impact of these following first lines of poems:

I celebrate myself....
I sing the body electric....
There was a child went forth every day....
Weapon, shapely, naked, wan!...
Afoot and light-hearted I take to the open road....
A woman waits for me....
Out of the cradle endlessly rocking....
I hear America singing....
A noiseless, patient spider....

152