[Vol50 | September | Magazine Page 680 | PDF Page 707]
[Title: Bananas Are Wonderful!]

--- PAGE 679 (PDF page 706) ---
Rock Gardening

Dorthea N. Newbold

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Transparency by Willard Luce

LILY POOL IN A ROCK GARDEN

Informality is the keynote of this lily pool-rock garden combination. The borders and center pieces of early spring bulbs have given way to pansies, violets, and forget-me-nots. The stones which make the rock garden are porous, thus helping to hold the soil and moisture.

ROCK gardening is a hobby demanding much of the gardener in time, effort, and knowledge. If the beginner is willing to work with plants, and study their needs, beginning with the more easily grown plants, then, as the gardener gains experience, progressing on to the more difficult and demanding plants, she soon becomes expert in her hobby. Much satisfaction is realized through the knowledge gained, and great pleasure from the beautiful pictures created through the use of plants, soil, and rocks.

681

--- PAGE 680 (PDF page 707) ---
SEPTEMBER 1963

A rock garden, patterned from nature's own way, appears deceptively simple. But, if we will take the time to observe a natural rock garden carefully, then we can avoid many mistakes. First, the site for the garden is very important. And if you possess a natural stony site on your home grounds — then you are fortunate. If that area slopes to the west, east, or north, you are twice blessed. A southern slope presents more problems, due to the rapid drying during the summer months and too much sun during the winter months.

Rocks, large ones, are used to create the garden. Selection of rocks should be made from those that are native to your neighborhood. To import rocks can be very costly. Sometimes the gardener wants to stand those expensive rocks on end — in a manner that one never sees in a natural rock garden. Rocks so placed will resemble a pile of rubble left over from the building process. Instead of creating a rock garden, the garden becomes an assemblage of rocks. The gardener becomes unhappy and is defeated before the project is even well launched. Avoid placing the rocks in a regular pattern.

If the site chosen is flat, then the soil will have to be dug out to a depth of from one to three feet, or even deeper, depending somewhat on the size of rocks used. Rocks should be large, some should be so large that it will be necessary to use crowbars to shift them to the desired location. Rocks should be placed so that they slope inward and downward. The slanted rocks will guide water to the roots of the plants. If there is any doubt about drainage, then a good layer of coarse gravel should be spread out before the rocks are shifted into position. Spread a layer of sand over the gravel, then shift rocks into the mix at the desired locations. Correct placement includes the strata or grain of the rocks sloping the same pitch. (Here, again, we are copying nature's rock gardens.) Bury the rocks two-thirds to three-fourths in the soil. Use medium-sized rocks as well as the large ones, enabling the gardener to create pockets for soil.

After the rocks have been moved into position, a layer of soil, at least six inches deep, should be spread out over the area. Use a shovel handle to ram the soil into the pockets between the rocks. When all the soil has been spread to your satisfaction, then a layer of stone chips should be scattered over the surface. The chips will slow down evaporation of water and will help keep foliage and blossoms off the ground.

The soil used in rock gardening is usually made up of three parts, consisting of one part good top soil, one part vegetable fiber, such as leaf mold or compost, and one part rather coarse sand. If you garden in an area where the soil is quite acid, then you will need to add limestone to the mixture. Avoid using fertilizers other than leaf mold or compost or other rotted vegetable matter.

682

--- PAGE 681 (PDF page 708) ---
[PHOTOGRAPH]

Transparency by Josef Muench

CASCADE OF COLOR

A flowering cascade on a beautifully planted slope wall, designed in steps, uses phlox for brilliance of color and saxifrage and other plants as background.

683

--- PAGE 682 (PDF page 709) ---
SEPTEMBER 1963

When the hard work of making the rock garden has been finished, the pleasures of plant selection and then the planting can begin. Selection of plants is a personal matter, but one finds an amazing wealth of alpine plants from which to select. Planning the plantings is interesting and fascinating. Here we use the principles of good composition: balance, harmony, and unity.

The colors in a rock garden may be quite vivid; they should harmonize together, unless, by chance, some of the pinks are used beside the orange colors. There are many lavenders and blues, and these colors are enhanced by using some of the softer tones of pinks and yellows nearby.

Low growing shrubs, broad-leaved evergreens, or other evergreens may be used in a rock garden if a careful selection is made of dwarf and low-spreading varieties. If you live in an arid region, perhaps you will prefer using native cacti in many varieties. The rock garden can become a spot of beauty the year around, instead of an area having a great splash of beauty in the spring time.

Some of the plants that will give a later blooming period are the dwarf asters, blooming in late summer and fall. Aster Alpinus will bloom continuously from May until July. Many of the Campanulas will bloom from June until October, the soft lavenders, blues, and whites of their flowers providing a spot of color at the time most needed. In the Dianthus family, that large and growing family of pinks, will be found many different varieties and, by experimenting, blooms can be had from June until well into October. Don't forget the Sedums; there are many varieties to select from and they, too, have a long-blooming period.

Iris can be used in the garden, but avoid using too many. In fact, always keep in mind that to ruin a lovely rock garden is easy — just overplant one variety of flowers, then it will predominate, and the balance and proportion of the garden will be lost.

Weeds have a habit of springing up overnight and should be removed as soon as spotted. Trim off spent flowers. This helps the appearance of the garden, and yet, at the same time, encourages the plants to put out another crop of blossoms. Keep the plants pruned to the spot which you intend them to occupy. Some varieties of rock garden plants will spread rapidly, usurping areas belonging to less rampant growers.

Most alpine plants are natives of high mountainous regions, used to low temperatures and short growing seasons. Little thought need be given to wintering over the plants. The alternate freezing and thawing may heave some of the plants out of the soil, and loosen some plants. However, it doesn't take much effort to replant them on any open, sunny winter day. The layer of stone chips placed on top of the soil helps to overcome this problem.

684