[Vol50 | June | Magazine Page 412 | PDF Page 432]
[Title: Tuesday Is Relief Society]

--- PAGE 411 (PDF page 431) ---
TUESDAY IS RELIEF SOCIETY

of yours and find I'm all out of spice."

"Yes, of course, Mrs. Renton. I think I have some here, up in the cupboard." She went to have a look. "I'm just on my way for the nine-forty bus," she added, hoping that Mrs. Renton would take the hint.

"Going anywhere nice?" she asked, easing her plump self into a kitchen chair.

"It's Relief Society morning," Marjorie answered quickly, trying to keep calm as she saw her neighbor was going to take her time.

"I don't know how you manage to get out as much as you do, with a young baby and three at school. When mine were small I never went anywhere — just didn't have the time. Now I'm older, I'm not well enough, of course."

"You should come one Tuesday with me to Relief Society, Mrs. Renton, when you're feeling better. You would enjoy it," answered Marjorie, hoping upon hope that Mrs. Renton wasn't going to launch forth on the subject of health. Not now anyway.

NORMALLY, Marjorie was only too happy to take time off to listen sympathetically to Mrs. Renton's troubles, with her indifferent health and her teenage family worries, but time was fast running out. Anxiously, she glanced at the kitchen clock. Four minutes to lock up and get to the end of the block.

"Thank you, dear, I will one of these days." Mrs. Renton took the packet of spice. "I suppose I'm holding you up."

Thankfully, she saw Mrs. Renton slowly get to her feet. "That's all right, Mrs. Renton. I'm all ready. I've just to lock up the back door, then we can both go through the front," she answered. "Better not forget young Chris."

Mrs. Renton chatted on, following her, as she went for Chris, who was playing gaily on the floor, surrounded by half his entire wardrobe — rompers, shirts, socks, and pants. What a mess — but it would have to wait until she returned. Scooping up the little fat bundle, she hurried through to her bedroom and slid her stockinged feet into her high heels, then back again into the kitchen.

"All ready?" Mrs. Renton asked, and as Marjorie picked up her basket, she nodded.

"Yes, I think I'll just make it," he answered.

She locked the front door behind them, and as they went up the path, Marjorie found herself half running, half walking, unconsciously chafing at having to match Mrs. Renton's ponderous steps.

"What are you doing this morning at Relief Society?" her neighbor asked curiously. "You seem to have good lessons, judging by those Magazines you lend me."

"It's work meeting morning. We are discussing home management. It's good for me," Marjorie said hurriedly. "Then Sister Peterson promised to teach us smocking afterwards." Then she remembered. "Oh, dear, I've forgotten my sewing things!" She looked at Mrs. Renton, undecided. Had she time to go back and get them? If the clock had been right, the bus was due any moment.

413

--- PAGE 412 (PDF page 432) ---
JUNE 1963

BUT the decision was made for her.

"Here, give me Chris and I'll walk to the bus with him," said Mrs. Renton, suddenly brisk. "If the bus comes I'll ask the driver to wait a moment for you."

With thanks for her helpfulness, Marjorie handed over her baby and dashed back to the house, running to her sewing box and scooping the articles she would need into her basket.

Slamming the door and locking it behind her again, she glanced up the path. A red-haired salesman, brief case in hand, greeted her cheerily.

"Not today — I'll miss my bus," she almost panted. "Sorry!" And she ran past him, out of the gate and up the street once more.

The bus passed the top of the street, slowing down to a halt just around the corner of the block. Mrs. Renton, with little Chris, was nowhere in sight. She hoped the driver would be persuaded to wait! As she rounded the corner, the bus was still there. Mrs. Renton was walking towards her, with her married daughter, who had apparently just got off the bus. But where was Chris? Mrs. Renton was carrying her own little grandson.

"Chris is on the bus — a lady has him."

"Thank you." Marjorie tried to smile, but couldn't help feeling annoyed that her neighbor had given her son to a stranger to mind. Suppose the bus had gone?

She did not have time to dwell on it, though, and she was glad to jump on board. The bus began to move off even before she had thanked the driver for waiting or paid her fare. Slipping her ticket into the basket, she glanced around at the faces before her, searching for her baby. Curious faces stared up at her; disinterested faces turned away — blank faces. No Chris. Must be up the back, Marjorie thought, and as the bus gathered speed, she walked unsteadily up the aisle looking to each side for the woman who had her baby.

BY the time she was two thirds of the way along the bus and she could see all the occupants, she felt a small twinge of doubt in her heart. Where was Chris? Don't be silly, Marj, she told herself, as she turned around, he's probably up in front, after all.

But he wasn't. Panic rose in her throat like a choking hand, and as she looked around frantically, the bus almost swaying her off her feet, she tried to stay calm. Trembling, she made her way back to the driver. She must ask him to stop and let her get off. There had been a mistake. Her baby was not on the bus.

Just as she was about to speak, a woman came up behind her. Dark-haired and slim, she smiled in a hard way, pointing to Marjorie's Relief Society Magazine in her basket.

"If you want to know where your baby is, look on page 27, and be there at noon today."

Hardly knowing what she did, Marjorie obeyed, sinking into an empty seat beside her. Page 27 — it was a picture of a park. A park? She did not understand. She did not understand anything! Marjorie

414

--- PAGE 413 (PDF page 433) ---
TUESDAY IS RELIEF SOCIETY

looked up for the woman to explain, but she had gone.

Unbelievingly, the word kidnapped went through her mind. The woman, the red-haired salesman, Mrs. Renton — had they all been in the plot to kidnap her baby? What was happening? Where was her baby? She must stop the bus. She was weeping now, the tears rolling down her cheeks.

"Stop the bus — please — my baby — I've lost my baby!" She could hardly speak for the sobs in her tight throat, and the bus driver did not hear her.

"My baby. . . ."

SOMEONE began to shake her by the shoulder, gently and insistently, and her husband's sleepy voice was at her side.

"Wake up, sweetheart — you're dreaming."

"What. . . ? It's Chris. . . ." She opened her eyes and saw Don in the darkness. "I'm dreaming," she repeated, still not quite awake, and she could feel the wetness of her cheeks. Slowly she smiled with utter relief. "Thank goodness."

When morning came it would be Tuesday, and she would go to Relief Society.

Double Exposure

Elaine Shirland McKay

Oh, how I love the sun's first rays
Upon a mountain peak—
The gold surprising purple hills
And playing hide and seek.
While streaming down the mountainside
And causing day to break
Across the world . . . and leaving trails
Of gladness in its wake.

But let me watch the sun go down
Upon vast level plains
Where as a child I saw it set
A hundred clouds to flames
Above an earth which gentle hands
Had smoothed all wrinkle free,
And left a solitary oak
To guard tranquillity.

415

--- PAGE 414 (PDF page 434) ---
His Life's Savings

Frances Yost

ANN Lindley wished she had a private room instead of being in the maternity ward. It would take care of this . . . this embarrassment of not having any Mother's Day presents to exhibit. The other three young mothers had such an assortment.

It was rather hard to keep smiling and saying "How lovely, how nice," and never be able to unwrap a gift and say "See what I have."

Only yesterday when the three of them had been chatting, Carma Rogers and Reah Summerlaid had come right out and said they didn't have money to pay for their hospital care, and the doctor would simply have to wait for his fee. Today, they were accepting all sorts of presents from their husbands. It seemed rather false economy to Ann. Yet, from the looks of things, she was the one not in harmony, the one out of step. Because she was married to a sensible man, who put first things first. Les was one to pay his bills even though it never left anything for frills. But how could you explain that to two inexperienced young mothers? She wouldn't try.

Ann turned over in her bed and faced the green wall. Green was supposed to be soothing. She guessed she was just tired of these hospital walls. She thought of the pale blue wallpaper in her bedroom at home, with the tiny pink roses. Some people might call her wallpaper "busy," but it surely was comforting to her.

Ann wished she was there, with little Mike and Ricky close by, and the new baby there, too. Presents didn't really matter. Yes, she would have to chalk this miserable feeling all up to homesickness. Surely she wasn't jealous of another's gifts. Things had never been too important to Ann. People were the important thing. Ann wished Les would come.

She looked at her wristwatch. Visiting hours would be over in ten minutes. She wondered if Les had taken the little boys to Sunday School. He probably had, that was why he was late getting here. Surely he would come to see her . . . on Mother's Day.

Ann closed her eyes and pretended sleep. If the others in the room thought she was asleep, they would stop their chatter about gifts for awhile. Ann wished she could actually sleep, not just have to lie here and pretend. No, she must not cry. That would be rather silly, downright childish to break down and cry. She was a big girl now, a mother with three little children.

She smiled, thinking about her children. Mike was seven and enrolled in school. He could print so nicely. Ricky was three, and of course, there was baby Sue now, almost a week old. Ann would like nothing better than to be home, in her own bed. She could visualize the picture so plainly, the little boys peeping over the edge of the bed,

416