[Vol50 | December | Magazine Page 905 | PDF Page 944]
[Title: Season of Giving — The National Tuberculosis Association]

--- PAGE 904 (PDF page 943) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman figure above a globe/world map]

MRS. KATHERINE B. OETTINGER, chief of the Children's Bureau, Washington, D.C., reported that in 1961, the year in which the most recent statistics are available, no State in the U.S. had as low a death rate among infants as did the Netherlands and Sweden. The lowest rate in the United States was in Utah, twenty and three tenths per one thousand live births.

MRS. HELEN C. SCHREIBER, Goldendale, Washington, and Mrs. Marian Valentine, Tevares, Florida, won special fellowships for achievement at a National Home Demonstration Agents Convention held in Salt Lake City in September and attended by eight hundred women. This program is the "country women's college," said one attendant. Mrs. Schreiber will use her award to study programs in Indiana and Missouri to help young married couples in home management—a great need in our country, it seems. Mrs. Valentine will study marketing and management as related to consumer information.

MISS SUE ANN GODDERIDGE, of Smithfield, Utah, whose father raises Holstein cattle, and who herself, drives a tractor and drinks three glasses of milk a day, was chosen American Dairy Princess in Miami, Florida, in September. She will probably visit forty States and several foreign countries during her year's reign. Her attractive smile and healthy, wholesome look are pleasant characteristics.

BARBARA WARD is a distinguished British economist who has spent much time in India, helping with the economic problems in two hundred and twenty thousand major community centers, many of them centering around agriculture. Having recently returned from India, she says the improvement in economic conditions in the villages, after three years, is most impressive.

GLADYS ERICKSON, a reporter for Chicago's American, has been honored by King Paul of Greece with the Golden Cross of the Order of Efpooia for her excellent published articles on Greece. These have made Greece better known, it was announced, to the world, and to America in particular. She has promoted good relations between Americans and Greeks and has helped to strengthen those relations.

906

--- PAGE 905 (PDF page 944) ---
KISS
of the
WIND

Rosa Lee Lloyd

CHAPTER 6

Synopsis: Luana Harrington, her husband Ben, his mother Tutu, and the five children live on a pineapple plantation on the island of Maui. Emma Lu, the eldest, has recently returned from San Francisco, where she graduated as a nurse and became engaged to a Sherman Grant. Margaret Lester, Luana's sister-in-law, who lives in San Francisco, is visiting with the Harringtons. She is an artist and plans to enter an art contest in which Luana is also interested. They plan to search for Bo, a twin, who has run away.

Tutu put her knitting in the basket and rose from the table.
"Let us have luncheon before the search," she said, quietly.
"But, Mother!" Ben exclaimed. "None of us feels like eating. Make some sandwiches. We'll take them with us."
Tutu walked to the window and stood there for a moment, looking down the path that led to the highway.
"I'll help you, Mama," Emma Lu offered, as Luana took buns from the cupboard for sandwiches. "Shall I get a jug for punch? It's such a hot day."
Tutu turned from the window. Her blue eyes were twinkling.
"That won't be necessary," she said, pointing toward the path. "Look! There comes our little Bo. Home again. I thought he would be home by lunchtime. Dinnertime for sure."
Luana dropped the buns and ran to the window with the others. Philip slapped Emma Lu's shoulder.
"I'll be your monkey's uncle!" he said. "He's coming home on his own power!"
A sob caught in Luana's throat, as she watched Bo's lonely, dejected little figure trudging up the path. She glanced quickly at Ben. His mouth was grim and unrelenting. She reached for his hand but his fists were clenched.
"Take it easy, Sergeant," she coaxed. "It took courage for him to come back so soon. Especially, when he knows he has to apologize to his classmates this afternoon."
Tutu, standing close by, put her hand on his shoulder. "I remember when you ran away, Ben," she told him. "You were twelve, I think. You were angry because your father would not permit you to have a canoe of your own until you were fourteen."

907

--- PAGE 906 (PDF page 945) ---
Her voice was as gentle as a lullaby. "I remember, too, how understanding and forgiving your father was when you came home before dark. He treated you like the prodigal son. He ran to meet you and kissed you."

A muscle jerked in Ben's cheek. The lines around his mouth relaxed. "The little fellow looks tired," he said, with a catch in his voice. He stepped quickly to the door and opened it wide.

"Aloha!" he called. "You're in time for lunch. We're glad to see you, son."

Benjy ran past them all and grabbed his brother in both arms. "We'll have San Francisco hamburger!" he yelled.

Bo stood still, looking at his family. A sheepish grin tipped the corners of his mouth, but Luana could see the effort he was making not to let the tears break through. He was different from Benjy. He kept his tears inside, where no one could see them.

"Aloha!" he said, lifting his hand.

Luana thought she had never known a little word to mean so much. It said he was sorry he had caused them worry; it told them he had found the great big world outside his home was not so fascinating as he had hoped; and it said he loved them all very, very much, even though he didn't know how to say it the way Benjy did.

Soon there was food on the table — bowls of rice and poi; coconut milk and hot chocolate; thick slices of tuna fish from the lagoon, and fresh pineapple cut through the middle and heaped with grapes. There was homemade bread for those who wanted it. And a big, round carton of cheese.

"Try the cheese, Aunt Margaret," Emma Lu suggested. "Tutu gets it from a dairy ranch high in the mountains of Molokai."

Luana smiled, as she watched Margaret take some cheese. She knew Emma Lu was curious to know if Margaret felt certain that food from Molokai was safe to use.

"It's very good," she said, eating it with her pineapple and grapes.

Ben leaned back in his chair, folding his arms across his chest. His eyes caressed his twin boys.

"It's your birthday Saturday," he said. "Your thirteenth birthday. That is a big day."

"We will have a party, of course," Luana said. "Shall we have a luau?"

Ben pursed his lips. "How would you like a picnic? The kind Queen Liliuokalani went on when she was a little girl?"

"A picnic!" Benjy yelled. "Welakahao!"

Bo's eyes perked up. "Boy!" he breathed. "I like a picnic better than a luau on birthdays."

Luana noticed that Tutu was pleased. It was she who had told them how Queen Liliuokalani had liked the picnics that had been introduced to the Hawaiians.

"What is your picnic like?" Margaret questioned Bo. "What makes it so special?"

908

--- PAGE 907 (PDF page 946) ---
KISS OF THE WIND

"We take food up a valley Maui — all kinds. I'll take you where there are big hau trees to meet a very good dear dealer with long loopy branches. We'll — Mr. Okamura. We'll go there hide in the branches and play first — then to the cannery."
games. Emma Lu should take An hour later Luana and Mar-
Toki — he would have fun!" garet were at the pineapple can-
"Then we have a ti-leaf slide nery.
down a hill," Benjy said. "Ben belongs to this associa-
Ben laughed. "Let's not tell tion," she explained, as they
Aunt Margaret everything," he parked the car and walked toward
said. "She'll find out when we the large white building. "They
get there." take our entire crop. Most of
"She sure will," Phil said, wink- our friends who owned planta-
ing at Emma Lu. "Better take tions have sold out to the big
plenty of soap, Aunt Margaret." companies, but Ben still holds out
"And some rubber pillows," as an independent producer."
Tutu added, her lips quirking. "I know it's a big industry over
 here," Margaret said, "along with
After luncheon Ben went to sugar."
school with the boys. Emma Lu "Pineapple is the bigger," Lu-
decided to visit with Millie Togo ana said. "When you hear the
and her new baby. She left the word cane sugar you think of
house with Toki perched on her other places in the world besides
shoulder. Hawaii, but when you hear the
"You must rest, Tutu," Luana word pineapple, you think only
said. "Remember Dr. Hartford of the Hawaiian Islands. It is as
told you that you must rest every Hawaiian as the ukelele, the hula,
day." or the surf-board. Here we are
Tutu smiled. "I will rest, Lu- — follow this crowd of visitors
ana," she said, "but call me when with the guide."
Pixie comes from school. I want Margaret's eyes were luminous,
her to try her new sweater. She as she entered the luxurious white
needs to wear something bright lobby decorated with murals of
and gay. She has been moody, "pine" life in all its stages from
lately." cuttings to fruit.
"I know," Luana admitted, but The guide told them to stop at
she forced a smile as she looked the large attractive containers
at Margaret. "Would you like to with shiny chrome tops and help
go through a pineapple cannery themselves to glasses of the
this afternoon?" she asked. luscious juice.
"I'd love it!" Margaret an-
swered. "But can we go to an Luana saw Margaret watching
art shop first? I need some sup- the girl guides in their spotless
plies." white uniforms.
"Why, sure!" Luana agreed. "The prettiest girls in the
"We have some fine shops in world work here," she told her.

909