[Vol50 | March | Magazine Page 181 | PDF Page 192]
[Title: The Red Cross]

--- PAGE 180 (PDF page 191) ---
MARCH 1963

great success with everyone, including Stevie, consuming generous amounts of burgers and trimmings.

ELAINE waited that night until the children were in bed to break the news. "The most outlandish thing happened today," she said. "Radcliffe Hardin called me down to his office. A couple of others were there. You'll never guess what they wanted!"

"Hm, that's an easy one. They wanted you to take a job."

"Well, it was hardly that. They want me to run for an office this fall. For the State senate, of all things. Did you ever hear of anything so wild?"

"Oh, I don't know. Did you accept?"

"Without consulting you! Of course not." There was a long pause. Then she asked, "Well, what do you think about it?"

"It's entirely up to you," he replied, almost too casually. "I daresay you'd have lots of fun. I notice the legislature gets invited out to meals pretty regularly. If they ask me, too, we'll save on the board bill. I guess we can't expect them to include the kids."

"Bert — please be serious. The nominating convention is only a few weeks away. I have to give them my answer tomorrow."

"Then go ahead with my blessing — if it's what you want."

"I wish I knew if it was what you want," she said wistfully.

He kissed her lightly. "I want you to be utterly and completely happy. If this will help — then take it on."

"Thanks. I believe I will," she

said, excitement creeping into her voice. As she dropped off to sleep she thought, I wonder how many women there are in the legislature. That must be terribly thrilling.

She gave an affirmative answer to Hardin the next day, and shortly afterward was announced as a candidate. At once exciting things began to happen. There were messages of congratulation. There were invitations to speak. Free tickets began to arrive. Two different people called to "get a word in early about a hoped for bill."

The convention was only about a week away, and they were at the annual company outing when Dan Armstrong remarked casually, "I'm sorry that Bert turned down the job at Lincoln. I think it would have turned out to be a good thing in the long run. Of course there'd have been a dry spell while he was building the business up, but he'd have made good."

ELAINE murmured something noncommital and tried to look as if she knew what he was talking about. She could hardly wait to get home to ask, "What's this about an offer at Lincoln?"

"Oh, it's a new company starting up. They offered me the managership of the store."

"And you turned it down?"

"Well, what else could I do? I'd have to take far less pay than I'm getting now, and we just barely manage as it is. You can't very well leave here now that you're involved in this political thing. Anyway, I'm not sure that I could handle the business. It's pretty big."

Elaine sat still for a moment.

182

--- PAGE 181 (PDF page 192) ---
KABOBS FOR STEVIE

Through her mind flashed a panorama of the civic duties she had done in the past — of the many friends here in the city — the chance she now had for broader activities. There also flashed a picture of Pam going to Aunt Jen for various favors. Of Stevie spending more and more time at the neighbors. Of Bert quietly accepting mediocrity in his work.

She stood up. "We can get along on less money for a time, if we have to. I can leave here, and you can handle the business. They wouldn't have asked you if they hadn't been sure. A challenge like this is all in the world you need. You can call and accept the very first thing in the morning."

"But what will Hardin say? What will the party do?"

"What Hardin says doesn't matter. And the party can get another candidate. It's been done before."

Bert picked up a hairbrush and twirled it neatly around. "Lincoln isn't a very big town," he said. "You'd miss all the activity you've had here. What would you do without the symphony board, the United Fund drive, and the rest?"

"I'd do a lot of things I haven't had time to do before," Elaine replied. "I'd put the hems in Pam's skirts and hear all about her latest party. I'd learn the workings of the store from the manager himself. But, first of all," her eyes twinkled, "I think that I'd learn to make kabobs for Stevie."

Big-Man Shoes

Rose Thomas Graham

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a young boy in striped shirt and overalls walking in oversized shoes]

Clomp, clomp, clomp, clomping down the long street,
Big-size shoes with little-size feet.
Where are they going? What is their plan?
Big-man shoes with little-boy man.
Way up high in a blue airplane?
On a green boat? In a red train?
Off for a year, a month, or a day?
The world is so small — time far away.

He has his secrets. I wouldn't dare
Question the how, the when, or the where
Man-shoes are taking little-boy feet
Clomp, clomp, clomp, clomping down the long street.

183

--- PAGE 182 (PDF page 193) ---
What does your

SPEECH

reveal?   Myrtle E. Henderson, M.A.

Former Head, Speech Department, Dixie College

SPEECH is communication of thought, and one purpose of speech is to set up friendly relations among people. It is well for every woman to think about the effect her voice and her manner of speaking are having upon those with whom she is associated.

Children Come First
Perhaps without realizing it, mothers themselves are contributing to some of the problems of their children. Psychologists tell us that a mother who greets her child in a shrill, angry voice, "Don't slam that door! Go back and wipe your feet!" has very likely made the child feel like going out and slamming the door again and never coming back home. She has started a train of feelings of resentment in the child and has contributed to his nervous tension. A child's speech will reflect the kind of speech he hears at home. It may gratify or embarrass the parents. If this was not a fact, all children would talk alike.

Be honest with yourself — does the flatness of your voice reflect a listless attitude toward life? Is the shrillness caused by taut nerves? Does huskiness obscure the vitality of your words? Is your voice so sweet that what you say seems insincere?

One mother was told that her voice was one cause of her son's resentment and disobedience. She had a tape recording made of her voice. Upon hearing the recording, she exclaimed, "I don't sound like that! That's the voice of a nag — a shrew!"

It is difficult for us to realize just how our voices sound unless we have them recorded and listen to them ourselves.

Sometimes parents have voices so flat, nasal, or husky that they may

184

--- PAGE 183 (PDF page 194) ---
WHAT DOES YOUR SPEECH REVEAL?

make the child feel depressed. Their voices do not give any soothing love or parental quality to the child's world.

How Does Your Voice Affect Husband and Friends?

Even though we may not be aware of it, our voices give impressions of us, either for good or for bad. Our mood is usually reflected in our voices. If we are happy our voices fairly thrill with joy. If we are sad, one can almost hear the tears. An optimist will sound cheerful, a pessimist will sound mournful and sad.

The whining, nagging woman may gradually drive away the happiness in her home.

Kind words of appreciation will do more to keep family and friends happy than any amount of criticism and nagging will do.

Causes of Poor Speech

Poor speech may be due to various factors or a combination of causes.

Nervous people are inclined to speak so rapidly that they cannot be understood. This is because they run their words together. Their articulation is lazy and indistinct. Their lips and tongue do not move enough to make the sounds properly. This lip and tongue laziness may also be attributed to pure carelessness. Leaving off sounds from endings of words makes for poor, uncultured speech. The singing sound of ing is often left off from words like dancing, asking, laughing; sometimes the d is left off of words like hand, sound, land. In doing this, much beauty of speech is lost. There are other sound omissions, many of them in the middle of words.

Another common practice which contributes to poor speech is sound substitution. We have all heard idea changed to ider, library to liberry, little to lille, butter to budder, calling to cawing. Words like little, water, butter, can easily be said correctly if the tip of the tongue is made to touch the teeth ridge back of the upper teeth to say the t.

The Class Leader's Speech

Naturally, much of the success of Relief Society class leaders depends upon adequate preparation, but the way they speak, and their voices, can have much to do with their success in teaching. The droning, monotonous voice can put an audience to sleep. The class leader who speaks too rapidly and runs her words together will make it difficult for her audience to understand her, and they are likely to get off on a train of thought of their own and miss the major part of what the class leader is trying to say. A shrill or raspy voice may make an audience nervous or annoyed, even physically uncomfortable. The whining or weak voice may arouse the sympathy of the class, and instead of listening to what is being said, they will be thinking, "Poor soul, why does she do it if it is such a burden to her?"

These voices are not hopeless. If class leaders become aware of the kind of voices they have by having tape recordings made, and then begin to practice better speech, much improvement can be made in a relatively short time. This, however, must be a consistent, constant effort.

185