[Vol50 | July | Magazine Page 499 | PDF Page 519]
[Title: Kiss of the Wind, Chapter 1]

--- PAGE 498 (PDF page 518) ---
Beneath the Purple Mountains

Betty Lou Martin Smith

[ILLUSTRATION: Woman in checkered coat sitting by train window, looking at rural landscape with mountains, trees, and fence]

The train sped on its way, closing in the miles between Teresa and her daughter Rosemary. It had been almost a year since they had been together, and Teresa was very excited to see her two little grandchildren once again.

Teresa watched enchanted as the train took her farther and farther away from the most densely populated part of the State into the rural area. Although she had never really cared for country life, she found the scenery around her very beautiful. Spring had almost arrived now, and it was in evidence at every turn. The rich, deep brown of the earth showed sprinklings of green, and the trees boasted tiny little buds making their debut into the world.

This is the time to get a fresh start on things, Teresa thought, more so than at any other time.

Spring makes me feel so clean and good all over.

When Rosemary had married ten years ago, Teresa had found it difficult to see why she would want to move away from her social life in the city to the country. She still couldn't understand her daughter's happiness in such a place. However, Teresa's husband had stated, "Happiness isn't being in a certain place; it comes from within one's own self. If Rosemary is willing, she can be happy any place."

Teresa adjusted the collar on her coat. She was smartly dressed in a black and white checked coat. Her accessories of black complemented her as well as the coat. Her lovely, white-gray hair went well with black, and her soft, almost unlined face and blue eyes finished the picture of a very fashionably dressed lady.

The conductor called out loudly,

500

--- PAGE 499 (PDF page 519) ---
BENEATH THE PURPLE MOUNTAINS

"Cedar View," and Teresa's heart skipped a beat. She had arrived! In happy anticipation, she made her way toward the front of the car. The train was on time, Rosemary should be waiting.

"There's Grandma! There's Grandma!" Rosemary's eight-year-old son Donnie called out happily as he ran to meet Teresa.

"I see her, too." Cindy jumped up and down. The six-year-old also made her way toward her grandmother.

"Mother, it is so good to see you." Rosemary put her arms around her mother. "Carl said to tell you that he wished he could come to meet you, too, but they are so busy in the fields that they don't stop for anything."

"What, work on Saturday? In the city most people have Saturday off." Teresa wished she hadn't spoken so abruptly, but it was too late. She could detect a slight tenseness about Rosemary.

"The car is this way, Mother." Rosemary led the way.

Once inside the car Teresa attempted to make conversation. "You're looking very well, dear. I think this country air agrees with you."

"Despite all my hard work, Mother," Rosemary laughed, "I have never felt better." Although Rosemary had her father's light, blonde coloring, she resembled her mother strongly.

The car turned off the main highway and down a graveled lane for about five miles. The smell of the fresh earth was evident everywhere, and the sunshine poured into the car. Teresa unbuttoned her coat and sat back in the car seat, perfectly relaxed.

Rosemary's and Carl's home was a large, white frame house with green shutters. There was a white picket fence around the yard, and it was apparent that Rosemary and Carl took great pride in keeping their place looking neat.

"Here we are, Mother." Rosemary pulled into the driveway by the side of the house. "Notice that we have repainted the house since you were here last?"

"It looks very nice, dear." Teresa appraised the house.

"I know that it isn't as elaborate as yours in the city, but we really do enjoy it here," Rosemary commented.

"I'm glad that you do, Rosemary."

"Donnie, catch the dog so that he won't jump on Grandma. You know that she doesn't like him around her," Rosemary called after her son.

"Here, Scampie," Donnie called out. "You had better stay by us."

Rosemary smiled. "Don't mind the children, Mother. It is just that they can't understand why anyone in the whole world would not want their wonderful Scampie to jump on them. He has become a member of the family."

"Well, you can have him as a member of the family if you want to, my dear, but I would just as soon that he stay right away from me." Teresa shuddered at the thought of the dog getting close to her.

The furniture in the house was not new, but it showed careful pol-

501

--- PAGE 500 (PDF page 520) ---
JULY 1963

ishing and care. The rooms fairly glistened, and Teresa had to admit that there was a certain distinction about the place that some of the most elaborate homes lacked. It is really rather quaint, Teresa mused to herself.

"It is good to see you again, Mother," Carl said, as she entered the kitchen and put his arm on Teresa's shoulder. "We are all so pleased that you decided to come and visit us."

"My goodness, Carl, does Rosemary let you in the house with mud on you?" Teresa knew at once that she had spoken out of turn again.

Carl dropped his arm from Teresa's shoulder, walked over to the sink and got himself a glass of water. "I'm very careful not to get anything dirty," Carl responded. "Rosemary is a very tidy person, like you."

"What are you two talking about in here?" Rosemary walked into the kitchen.

"Nothing, really, just chatting." Teresa turned her gaze away from Carl's own.

The rest of the day was spent leisurely. Rosemary prepared a delicious lunch, and later took Teresa for a ride through the valley, showing her their land. Rosemary spoke of it so proudly that Teresa was amazed.

That night after dinner, Rosemary and Teresa did the dishes. It seemed so good to be with her daughter again that Teresa could not hide her pleasure.

"I wish that you lived closer to us, Rosemary. We don't get together nearly often enough. It would be wonderful if you would move back to the city. Wouldn't Carl enjoy working there now that he has seen what hard work farming is?"

"No, Mother, Carl has always wanted a farm, and we are all perfectly happy here. The children love it as much as we do. Speaking for myself, I don't have any desire to move back to the city. Some people prefer to live in the city and some in the country. I just happen to be content in the country." Rosemary wiped off the cupboard and started putting the dishes away.

Teresa had hoped that in some way she could convince the children that they should move back to the city. Even though she had tried in vain before, she just could not give up. Now, she knew by the tone of Rosemary's voice that she had closed the matter, and that it should not be brought up again.

Later, Teresa sat down in front of the kitchen table and waited for her daughter to finish tidying up. "Rosemary, why don't you get Carl to put in a double sink. It would be much more convenient for you, you know."

"We can't afford it right now, Mother. Eventually we want to remodel the kitchen, but we can wait," Rosemary said. "Let's go into the living room. Sit here, Mother. I think that you'll find this chair more comfortable."

Carl sat on the couch by Rosemary, and Teresa noticed how he had matured in the past ten years. He had always been good looking, with his light brown, curly hair and kind gray eyes, but now he had a mature appearance that he had lacked before.

502

--- PAGE 501 (PDF page 521) ---
BENEATH THE PURPLE MOUNTAINS

THE week end passed by pleasantly with the Sabbath spent mostly in church. Teresa had slept better than she had done for weeks. She even found herself falling asleep in Carl's easy chair when he was outside.

Monday proved to be a very busy day, with washing, cooking a big meal for the men who had come to help Carl, and, later, baking bread. Teresa tried to help, but she gave out before the day was even half over. She was appalled at how hard her daughter worked.

When Rosemary took a moment to sit down, Teresa couldn't keep quiet. "I think that it is terrible the way that Carl lets you work. I have never seen anyone work so hard."

"Now, Mother, I don't work any harder than the other people around here. Have you ever noticed how hard Carl works? He is up at dawn every day, and he never stops, only to eat, until it is dark at night. I enjoy working hard. It gives me a purpose in life. I feel that I am accomplishing something."

"Well, I can think of much better ways to accomplish things." Teresa's voice held an antagonistic ring.

Before they retired that night, Rosemary said, "It is our Relief Society work meeting tomorrow, Mother. It starts early, and we have our lunch there. Would you care to go?"

"I don't know, Rosemary." Teresa hesitated. She could not see that she had anything in common with the ladies in the country, and she was beginning to believe that she did not have anything in common with her own daughter any more.

"I am in charge of the lunch, Mother, or I would stay home and visit with you. I think that you would enjoy it."

"Well, all right, dear. I might just as well go. I don't have anything else to do, with the children in school."

The next morning Rosemary prepared the food for the noonday meal for Carl and his men, and before Teresa could believe it, things were in order, and they were on their way to the meetinghouse.

"No wonder you keep thin, Rosemary. I get tired just watching you." Teresa was grateful for Rosemary's vitality.

THE meetinghouse proved to be very well kept, also. It was difficult for Teresa to explain it to herself, but it felt comfortable and friendly.

The women were very friendly, not at all as Teresa had pictured them. She had imagined they would look older, tired, somewhat disheveled. As it turned out, they were attractively dressed in bright, cotton frocks. They were healthy and vital looking.

"Are you having a good time, Mother?" Rosemary stopped for a moment to talk to Teresa.

"Yes, yes, I am, Rosemary." Teresa was surprised to realize that she was actually enjoying herself.

Once back at the farm, Teresa went out into the kitchen to help Rosemary with dinner.

"You know, dear, I don't think that I want to leave."

Rosemary looked up from where she was peeling potatoes. Teresa's

503