[Vol50 | June | Magazine Page 458 | PDF Page 478]
[Title: Theology]

--- PAGE 457 (PDF page 477) ---
NOTES FROM THE FIELD

[PHOTOGRAPH: Four women in dresses sitting in chairs, with decorative shields or emblems visible on the wall behind them]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Four women standing together, with one holding what appears to be a decorative snowman figure between them]

463

--- PAGE 458 (PDF page 478) ---
JUNE 1963

Lost River Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Stake Board at Leadership Meeting
March 17, 1963

Front row, left to right: Veta J. Waddoups, theology class leader (who has served Relief Society for thirty-six years in Lost River Stake); Beatrice E. Sorensen, President (twenty-one years of service); Marie Acor, Work Director Counselor; Edna Hansen, Magazine representative; Belva Jones, work meeting leader.

Back row, left to right: Josephine Toombs, Secretary-Treasurer (thirty-five years of service in Lost River Stake); Elaine Aikele, literature class leader; Marillyn King, organist; Verla Hope, Second Counselor; Leona Anderson, social science class leader; May Campbell, visiting teacher message leader; Bardella Reed, chorister.

Sister Sorensen reports: "This was our regular leadership day, and we honored the occasion with a special program dealing with the history of our organization, both Church-wise and in our own locality. We had a beautiful cake which was decorated in Relief Society colors, and inscribed '121 Years' and 'Charity Never Faileth.' We also honored some of the former officers, especially two former presidents who are still with us, Laura E. Christiansen and Elva J. Beal. A beautiful rose was presented to each of the former officers. The cake was later cut, and each sister who attended the meeting was served with birthday cake.

"On February 22d we held our visiting teacher convention, with a banner attendance, and a wonderful program, in which we presented the film 'A Record Shall Be Kept.'

"The words of the slogan in the picture are 'Every L.D.S. woman an active member of Relief Society.' This slogan has been adopted by the stake for our membership campaign. Our wards are doing a splendid work in this membership campaign. We have six wards and one branch in our stake at the present time."

Chilean Mission Relief Society Conference, January 26, 1963

Seated, left to right: Amerina Alvarez, Counselor; Mable J. Palmer, President; Edith Alvarez, mission secretary.

Standing, left to right: officers of the Concepción District: Hilda Caamaño, Secretary; Ana de Cueva, Counselor; Eledina Gonzalez, President; Valparaiso District: Otilia R. de Nuñez, Counselor; Leonora Diaz, President; Margarita de Peña, Secretary; Santiago District; Hortensia Mendez, Counselor; Perla Garcia, Counselor; Isabel Luna, Secretary; Talca District: Sara Retamal.

Missing from the picture are Blanca Gondar, Counselor in the mission presidency and also President of the Santiago District Relief Society; Dagman Goldbeck, Counselor from Concepción; and Rebecca de Vélis, Counselor from Valparaiso.

Sister Palmer reports: "On January 26th a conference was held in the mission home in Santiago for the district supervisors of the Relief Society organization. Those from out of town spent the night at the mission home. The three districts have been recently officered, so we felt there was great benefit received from the district officers getting to know each other, discussing common problems, and from becoming familiar with the kits of translated conference messages that were prepared by the General Board, and suggestions were made as to how they could be used in the monthly leadership meetings. The program included a talk by President Palmer of the Chilean Mission on the importance of the Relief Society organization in the Church. As President of the Relief Society, I directed the meeting (with all my talks translated into Spanish) and set forth the responsibilities of the various officers. These officers were each given a manual of the lessons with a splendid presentation by Sister Garcia, using charts showing the lessons for the year. A résumé of the progress of Relief Society in the Church, as given by President Spafford at the October Conference, was presented, along with the progress in the mission."

464

--- PAGE 459 (PDF page 479) ---
NOTES FROM THE FIELD

[PHOTOGRAPH: Group of women standing behind a table with a white tablecloth and what appears to be a cake. Text visible on tablecloth appears to read something about "Relief Society" but is partially obscured]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Group of women posed together, some standing and some seated, wearing dresses typical of mid-20th century fashion]

465

--- PAGE 460 (PDF page 480) ---
Auckland Stake (New Zealand) Relief Society Honors Visiting Teachers at Convention, October 1962

Gloria M. Dil, President, Auckland Stake Relief Society, reports this lovely occasion of companionship and instruction: "All of the sisters in the picture were honored because of their faithfulness in delivering the visiting teacher messages. All of them have to walk more than four miles to make their visits. Sister Schahill (center, front row) is blind, but walks with her companion every month. Another sister in the Sixth Ward cycles seven miles with her companion. These sisters were honored by being presented with a lovely floral shoulder spray."

South Sanpete Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert for the Relief Society Birthday Observance, March 12, 1963

Vonda H. Christensen, President, South Sanpete Stake Relief Society, reports that this inspiring concert was presented in the Manti South Ward chapel at 3 P.M. The concert was directed by Elly M. Beal, stake Relief Society chorister, with Eunice Garbe, stake organist, as accompanist. Ward choristers who assisted with the training of the combined chorus were: Gladys Dean, June Nelson, Nellie R. Toone, Carol Lowry, Bernice Barnett, Thera Lou Hickman, Rose McIff, and Virginia Ewell. Ward accompanists were: Norma Olson, Ardith Peterson, Amanda Cox, Evelyn Bradley, Joyce Stahle, and Irma Young. Poems introducing the various musical numbers were read by Martha Ryan. Three hundred sixty-five women attended the concert.

Uruguayan Mission Relief Society Women Await the Arrival of President Hugh B. Brown at the Mission Conference January 27, 1963

Helen Fyans, President, Uruguayan Mission Relief Society, reports: "President Margarita Cristobal Pujado of the Mission Relief Society Board, was in charge of the meeting, which was marked by excellent workshops on important phases of Relief Society work. Relief Society Singing Mothers of the Capital District sang for the meeting of the combined auxiliaries, with President Hugh B. Brown as the special speaker. Sister Edith Pokorny Gonzalez directed the Singing Mothers, and Ruth Cox accompanied the group of approximately thirty women, representing the eleven branches of the district. This special meeting was attended by nearly five hundred auxiliary leaders, in conjunction with training and leadership meetings for the various Church organizations.

"Under the direction of the Mission Board, the Relief Society presented a conference featuring departments for work meeting leaders, class leaders, secretaries, and executive officers. An introduction to the 1963 program of Relief Society and a short talk were given by Sister Zina Lou Brown, daughter of President Brown. Nearly two hundred sisters attended this meeting.

"The officers of the Mission Relief Society Board, in addition to President Margarita Cristobal Pujado, are: Gladys Otero, First Counselor; Carma M. Correa Galli, Second Counselor. Sister Fyans is assisted in the work of the women's organizations in the mission by Margaret McClellan, advisor to the Mission Board."

466