PATTERNS Norma Wrathall We grasp the threads of life with unskilled hands. And start to weave the pattern of our days; The passing years bring wisdom, but the strands Are tangled by the time we?ve learned their ways. We long, we strive, to weave the brighter hues. As youthful hours pass like summer sun. But soon, unwilling fingers start to use The somber tones, where hidden shadows run. Our thoughts, our acts, our very lives remain To bind the threads, unwavering, to the end; We dare not cut or break a single skein? For strands like these, once torn, may never mend. LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 12?Building an Empire in the West Dr. H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, January 8, 1946 Objective: To indicate the continued fulfillment of prophecy concerning the gathering of Israel. THE day which followed the arrival of the first company of saints into the valley of the Great Salt Lake was the Sabbath. Fittingly enough this should have been so, for these were a people who had chosen the Lord for their king. In their struggling efforts to establish his kingdom in the East, the Mormon people had found nothing but bitter opposition. Therefore, the Lord led his people where they would be unmolested in their efforts to establish his work.
To bring the nations of the earth to a knowledge of the literal establishment of such a kingdom was, however, the purpose of God. In his wisdom, therefore, he prepared a place for his saints to gather where they might become strong, a place of refuge among the towering rocks and hidden valleys of the mountains. Here, as a peculiar people, they too must be prepared, that they live and obey his laws, which eventually all men, too, must obey if they would enjoy peace and the blessings of prosperity.
President Brigham Young's first advice to the saints on that July 25, 1847, was concerning one of the laws of God?that of keeping the Sabbath day holy. Weakened as a result of an illness which had seized him just before the company of first pioneers entered the Valley, he expressed his wishes briefly. Elder Wilford Woodruff recorded his remarks as follows: "He told the brethren that they must not work on Sunday; that they would lose five times as much as they would gain by it. None were to hunt on that day and there should not any man dwell among us who would not observe these rules. They might go and dwell where they pleased, but should not dwell with us" (Josmer Paramos Saints without Halos in Church History, page 451).
These remarks and the spirit which prompted them were typical of the serious manner with which
Page 624 LESSON DEPARTMENT 625 the followers of this Prophet regarded the literal acceptance of God's word. Within the period of the first ten years that followed the entrance of the saints into the promised land, they set to work with zeal bringing about the fulfillment of many of the great and beautiful prophecies of the seers of old. It was an eventful ten years from 1847 to 1857. Within this decade, hundreds of Mormons, from many nations of the earth, having left their homes, streamed into the Valley. There was hard work to be done if the desert was to blossom as the rose, and scouting expeditions to be sent throughout the vast mountain regions if the stakes of Zion were to be set and lengthened (Isa. 54:2). An actual ensign was to be raised upon the hills that all people who would hear might know that Zion was again, and that they could flow into it. Temples were to be erected, since God had said that his people were always commanded to build a holy house unto his name (Doc. And Gov. 124:39). The land of Deseret or the "Honey Bee" it would become, as the Book of Mormon term implied. Visioning the industry and zeal with which the latter-day work of Israel would be carried forth, Isaiah, the ancient prophet, wrote: And they shall build the old wastes, they shall raise up the former desolation and they shall repair the waste cities, the desolations of many generations (Isaiah 61:4). And of the people and their abode, he said: He that walketh righteously, and speak-eth uprightiy; he that despiseth the gain of oppressions, that shaketh his hands firom holding of bribes, that stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes from seeing evil; He shall dwell on high: his place of defence shall be the munitions of rocks: bread shall be given him; his waters shall be sure. Thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty: they shall behold the land that is very far off. Thine heart shall meditate terror. Where is the scribe? Where is the receiver? Where is he that counted the towers? Thou shall not see a fierce people, a people of a deeper speech than thou canst perceive; of a stammering tongue, that thou canst not understand. Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities; thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tabernacle that shall not be taken down; not one of the stakes thereof shall ever be removed, neither shall any of the cords thereof be broken. But there the glorious Lord will be unto us a place of broad rivers and streams; wherein shall go no galley with oars, neither shall gallant ship pass thereby" (Isaiah 33:15-21). The actual story of the events which now are history and which now outline the early acts performed in laying the foundations of an empire in the West are filled with the color of human endeavor, courage and self-sacrifice. Soil was broken on the 23rd and 24th of July, that the seed so carefully treasured during the journey west might find its early germination in the Valley. When Monday morning, July 26th, arrived, eager exploring parties set out, some to the west of the valley beyond the Western Jordan River. John Brown and Joseph Matthews were among this group. Others went east into the canyons to return with reports of good timber. Wil-ford Woodruff and a party turned north to discover warm springs, and the next day they went west again into the Tooele valley. It was Orson Pratt who, on the trip, climbed a mountain to view Utah Lake. All companies returned with the feeling  that their present site in the valley of the Great Salt Lake was the best place in which to lay out the city with its temple to the Lord. It was on the 26th also that a party, including President Brigham Young ascended what is now known as "Ensign Peak" to the north of Salt Lake. Here it was the desire of President Young to lift up an ensign to the nations spoken of by the Prophet Isaiah.
By the 28th, President Young had designated the site upon which the temple to the Lord would be built. He said: "Here is the forty acres for the temple, and the city can be laid out perfectly square north and south, east and west."
Events throughout the rest of the summer months moved on smoothly. A fort was built on the square now known as Pioneer Park in Salt Lake City. This, it was felt, would serve as a protection against the Indians who by now were crowding around the saints to beg and steal. With the return of part of the Mormon Battalion, added strength was given to the colony. On October 3, 1847, a conference was held at which Elder John Smith, uncle of the Prophet Joseph Smith [and great-grandfather of President George Albert Smith], was sustained as the first president of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion. The year 1847 closed with a total of 2,095 souls in the Salt Lake Valley.
One of the most beautiful stories for the saints of the first years in the mountains is that of the crickets and the gulls. The feeding of Elijah by the ravens will ever be remembered to stir the love for birds and their courage to share when it is scarce, where in modern times can one turn for a more inspiring account of mercy from the skies than to that of the winged gulls from off the shores of Great Salt Lake.
No real crop was gathered by the saints for the season of 1847. The pioneers had arrived too late that year to expect much of a harvest. It was then to the spring and summer of 1848 that they must look for a yield if they were to live. The planting season for that year came, and, as the tender shoots pushed forth, the hopes for a bountiful harvest were high. May and June, however, brought not only the sunshine, but danger. Armies of marching crickets trooped down from the mountain sides to mow the fields. Trenches were dug, fires built, cattle and men called to tramp out the insects, but to no avail. Finally, in tearful supplication, the saints poured out their hearts to the Lord for deliverance. As they raised their eyes, what appeared to be a black cloud overhead shortly took shape in the form of hundreds of white-breasted gulls. At first, stricken by fear, lest these birds had come to finish what the crickets had left, the saints stolidly watched. But fear was not to be their lot, for, instead of feasting upon the crops, the birds hacked at the pests, and, gorging themselves, winged off to disgorge their feed. They returned again and again to repeat the attack until, with raucous cries, they wheeled into the air and vanished from sight. It was the miracle of the gulls these modern children of Israel had witnessed. Today, upon Temple Square in Salt Lake City, there stands the fine monument of its kind to a bird, and beneath its shaft is cast, in bronze, the story of the Utah seagull. LESSON DEPARTMENT 627 In other early accounts of this beginning empire in the West are recorded the stories of trips by President Brigham Young and others of the leading brethren back and forth across the plains to Winter Quarters. They were ever interested in bringing safely into the land of Zion the many souls who daily were embracing the gospel. It was on one of the trips back to Missouri that the apostles met and organized the First Presidency with Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, and Willard Richards as the first three men to hold these offices in the presidency since the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hy-rum. About that time, too, Oliver Cowdery returned to the Church and again was baptized a member. In Zion, in the month of March 1849, the first political convention was called. The saints were desirous of having their territory under the flag of the United States. Then, in September of 1850, President Millard Fillmore appointed the first federal officers for the Territory of Utah with Brigham Young as governor. The years ahead were to be stormy since, in the main, weak officials who sought personal gains in office were sent to assume control over the saints in their new Territory. A most important event of these years came with the laying of the cornerstones of the temple on April 6, 1853. Each stone was laid with dedicatory prayers of thanksgiving. Among the significant thoughts expressed that day were these by President Brigham Young: We dedicate the south-east corner stone of the temple to the Most High God. May it remain in peace till it has done its work, and until He who has inspired our hearts to fulfil the prophecies of His holy prophets, that the house of the Lord should be reared in the "tops of the Mountains" shall be satisfied, and say it is enough. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, page 482). The prophecies of old are being fulfilled. * Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggestive readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. In the month of December 1830 came the word of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning the place of Zion. It reads, "Keep all the commandments and covenants by which ye are bound; and I will cause the heavens to shake for your good, and Satan shall tremble and Zion shall rejoice upon the hills and flourish" (Doc. And Gov. 35:24). Why were the hills to which the saints were to go so desirable a place for God's people? Bring in a map of the Rocky Mountain region centered about Utah. Find in some history text an account of the "Land of the Northern Mystery" (The Great Salt Lake Basin). See Howard R. Driggs, Westward America, page 16. Read Doc. And Gov. 38:13-22. Note especially verse 19. This revelation was given at the third general conference of the Church. 2. What may those expect who keep the commandments and inherit the land of Zion? Read and discuss the revelation given through Joseph, the Seer in Jackson Gounty, Missouri, August 7, 1831 (Doc. And Gov. 59). See Doc. And Cov. Commentary, pages 246-247. Footnote. Assign chapter 40, Essentials in Church History, for additional facts of interest concerning the first months in the Valley. Also see "Utah's First July 24th Celebration," by Harold H. Jenson, Improvement Era, July 1942. Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength?Charity Lesson 4-Charity Vaunteth Not Itself, Is Not Puffed Up Dr. Lowell L. Bennion For Tuesday, January 8, 1946 Objective: To show that true charity is self-forgetting. JESUS spoke this parable: Unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised others: Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one, a Pharisee, and the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. I tell you this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted" (Luke 18:9-14). Jesus did not condemn the Pharisee because of his righteousness, because he was not an unjust person, an extortioner or an adulterer, nor because he paid tithes and fasted twice a week. These good deeds were all to his credit. His sin consisted in the self-righteous pleasure he took in his own goodness. It is only when we forget ourselves that we can be our best selves, that we can act in our full power and strength. Consciousness of self inhibits the free expression of oneself in any walk of life. A self-conscious speaker is ineffective. A beautiful girl loses much of her attractiveness if she acts conscious of it. Charity cannot both display and express itself at the same time. Charity means to love and to give. This, one cannot do with self-glorification or benefit in mind. That would be a contradiction. Jesus asked that we always act with singleness of purpose. He said not to give to be seen of men, but "when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth." He wanted us to give for the sake of giving. He asks us to love our fellow men freely, spontaneously, without fear of punishment or hope of reward. A friend relates this experience in giving: "One Sunday afternoon I decided to visit a bed-ridden friend, thinking it would be a Christian way to spend the Sabbath and that I might render him a service. I found him in much pain, yet he talked cheerfully and not of himself. His suffering had tempered his spirit, developing in him humility and a deep compassion for others. I left his home profoundly moved and spiritually quickened, and I felt ashamed that I had thought of myself as they giver and of him as the receiver of my benevolence.? "Charity vaunteth not itself, not puffed up?seeketh not her own.? The only check on our charity should be effectiveness in the lives of others. Literature The Bible in Our Literature Lesson 4?Bible Influence as Revealed in Our Narrative and Epic Poetry Dr. Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, January 22, 1946 CHAUCER, often called the father of English literature, gave us in his Canterbury Tales outstanding narrative poetry. In this group of stories, preserved vibrantly by a literary master, we have an artistic portrayal of England in the Middle Ages. With picturesque old English, which, well-voiced, brings a charm and flavor of its own, the poet tells of "myrie and Niceity in a companie of sondry folk" who are making a pilgrimage about Easter time to pay homage to a "holy blissful martyr" who has "holpen hem (them) whan that they been seke (sick)." To while time away on the long journey to and from Canterbury, the travelers relate favorite tales. These, like the different storytellers, mirror the spirit, the custom, the people of that "olden tyme."
Naturally, with such personages as a prioress, a nun, a monk, a pardoner, a friar, and a poor parson, in the company, we are brought closer to the religious thought and practices of the people, a keen observer, sketches these vivid characters in his prologue with artistry. He pictures the prioress as demure and neat and cultured. There are poetic shafts aimed at the monk who in this case was not pale and studious, but worldly and well fed. For show and sham and abuses of religion, the poet reveals little patience. His ire flames especially at the pardoner who went about selling indulgences, preying upon the poor and rich alike. For the poor parson, however, he has nothing but praise. "Riche he was in holy thought and work," says the poet; and further:
He wayted after pomp and reverence, Ne (not) maked him a spiced conscience, But Cristes lore," and his gospels twelve, He taught, and first he folwed it him selve.
"Meaning the gospel of Christ.
Because of the old-time language, which, after all, is mainly what we use today, only with some letters spelled differently, many folk miss the enjoyment of Chaucer. For those who do get over the not very difficult word barrier, there are delightful descriptions, touches of humor, bits of wisdom and gospel truths, as well as charming stories in his writings. He pictures for us typically human folk of not only his own day, but of all time. Throughout the work of this pioneer in English narrative poetry, the helpful influence of the Bible is plainly shown. Another of our great poets who drew from the Bible not only inspiration but divine themes for his masterpieces was John Milton. In him, as in Chaucer, we can see three major influences blended to help bring forth masterly creations. First, the freedom-demanding spirit of the Anglo-Saxon; second, the culture of classic Greece; third, the Bible, with its teachings of God and the gospel of Jesus Christ. For a helpful comparison here, think of the soil-laden waters of the Missouri as typifying the rugged northland folk; the clearer Mississippi as the more artistic Hellenes; and the "Beautiful Ohio" as the spiritualizing Hebraic and Christian contribution? all flowing together to make one great stream. In Paradise Lost, to apply this analogy, we have an excellent example of such a blended creation. Milton was trained in Anglo-Saxon love of freedom; he was a classical scholar, a devoted student of the scriptures. As secretary of Oliver Cromwell, he naturally was stirred to the depths by the arrogant assumption of King Charles the First, that kings had "divine right" to rule. To the poet this all had its prototype in the "War in Heaven" with Satan, father of tyrants, fighting to dominate the souls of men, and Christ leading the host battling to uphold man's right to exercise his God-given free agency. Here was a Bible-inspired theme, vital then and always. How could it be most splendidly expressed? All the artistry of poetry Milton had gained from his classic studies was brought into play. Paradise Lost most sublime of epics, vibrates with the spirit of liberty; it is stately in form, portraying heavenly characters, Satan and his legions in hell, the Son of God and his divine mission, Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, their temptation by the Devil, their fall, and expulsion from Paradise. Ringing lines of truth, precious descriptions, vivid moving pictures, all in the spirit of Job and Isaiah and the Apocalypse of John, bring this epic up to the world's greatest of literary creations. To feel its spiritual powers, its music and beauty, one must hear it effectively voiced. Further, it must be read and reread if the inner meaning of the poem is to be appreciated. Paradise Lost will yield its rare wealth only to those who are willing to pay the price of earnest study. Such effort, like that applied to the mastery of classic music, brings its rich and lasting rewards. Just a few lines can be given here to suggest some of the gems of thought and description within the great epic: Him (Satan) th' Almighty Power Hurled headlong flaming from the ethereal sky. The mind is its own place, and in itself Can make a heaven of hell, a hell of heaven?-so says the fallen Satan. LESSON DEPARTMENT When the Son of God offers himself to redeem the world, his Father, with tender love and admiration, makes promise that through this atoning sacrifice shall come, in time, New Heaven and Earth, wherein the just shall dwell. And after all their tribulations long. See golden days, fruitful of golden deeds. With Joy and Love triumphing, and fair Truth. Matchless portrayal of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, of the subtleties of Satan, and of the driving of our first parents from Paradise, carry forward the great story to its closing lines: Some natural tears they dropped, but wiped them soon; The world was all before them, where to choose Their place of rest, and Providence their guide. They, hand in hand, with wandering steps and slow, Through Eden took their solitary way. The Canterbury Tales and Paradise Lost differ basically in form. Stories that Chaucer brings together in the first are individual, unrelated tales. It is only the outward plan, devised by the poet, of having the various pilgrims traveling together tell the different stories that holds them with something of unity. Paradise Lost, on the other hand, is made up of different stories, each of which helps to develop the central theme. This makes it an epic, similar to the Illiad, the Odyssey or to Hiawatha. The Canterbury Tales, in structure may be likened to a necklace; Paradise Lost is more wheel-like in its story unity. Idylls of the King by Tennyson is another great epic. Its various interesting stories of the Knights of the Round Table center in Arthur, their king. In Celtic tales this legendary hero was preserved through the years. In Mallory's Morte d'Arthur, one of the first of English books to be printed, stories linked with Arthur's name are in prose. Tennyson brings to us many of the same stories in more polished English blank (unrhymed) verse. Further, the poet portrays King Arthur more plainly as a champion of Christianity. With his chosen and tested knights, he strives to hold back the Anglo-Saxon pagans who, when the Roman legions were withdrawn from England, made conquest of that realm. With "We fight for our fair father Christ," as something of a battle cry, the courageous Arthur: Fought, and in twelve great battles overcame The heathen hordes, and made a realm and reigned. At the outset the King had announced: "The old order changeth, yielding place to new." Something more, however, than victory over pagan hosts was necessary to make good that vow. Stories, one after another, of the Knights of the Table Round, reveal the continuing struggle against sin, disloyalty to high ideals, and a falling from grace. Then into the epic comes the miracle of the Holy Grail. This sacred symbol, one legend has it, was the cup out of which Christ drank at his Last Supper. Taken to England, so the old story goes, by Joseph of Arimathea, it had remained there until the time-Grew such evil that the holy cup Was caught away to heaven and disappeared. Only by the absolutely pure could the cup again be seen. A sister of Sir Percival, of the Table Round, was first to win that precious privilege. 632 Said she: Sweet brother, I have seen the Holy Grail: For waked at dead of night, I heard a sound As of a silver horn from o'er the hills... And then Streamed through my cell a cold and silver beam. And down the long beam stole the Holy Grail. Rose red "with beatings on it, as if alive... And then the music faded, and the Grail Pass'd.... So now the Holy Thing is here again Among us, brother, fast thou too and pray, And tell thy brother knights to fast and pray, That so perchance the vision may be seen By thee and those and all the world be heal'd. Percival, heeding his sister's words, withdrew from the Table Round to an abbey, to pass his life thenceforth in prayer and fast and alms. Other knights, catching the religious fervor, likewise took up the quest of the Holy Grail. Among them was Galahad, youngest of all. To this splendid youth, King Arthur, dubbing him knight, had said, "God make thee as pure as thou art beautiful." That tiie prayer was granted is attested by the story that Galahad was one who did see the vision of the Holy Grail. But unrighteousness did not cease. The Table Round in time was broken up. At last came the passing of the king (Morte d'Ar-thur).And, as the great leader neared the close of his uplifting life, he said again: The old order changeth, yielding place to new?Pray for my soul. More things are wrought by prayer Than this world dreams of Outstanding among our American creators of narrative and epic poetry is Longfellow. His name, to most folk, will bring memories of Evangeline and The Courtship oi Miles Standish. Something deeper than just interesting stories are in these and other narrative verse by Longfellow. Evangeline is a symphony impressing "the beauty and strength of woman's devotion"; The Courtship oi Miles Standish likewise is a musically beautiful poem portraying conflict between love and duty. Both picture with artistry moving scenes in earlier American life: one a story of the Norman peasantry transplanted to Arcadia; the other a story of the Pilgrims in Plymouth. To get the full richness out of these classics, one must read and reread them and, in doing so, follow Longfellow's own advice from "The Day is Done": Lend to the rhyme of the poet The beauty of thy voice. All great poetry was created to be heard rather than just to be read silently. Another thing: to appreciate the inner meaning and spiritual beauty of these story-poems one must know the Bible. All through them are lines that call, as do the following, for a working knowledge of that Book of Books. These are typical ones from Evangeline: Harvests were gathered in; and wild, with the winds of September Wrestled the trees of the forest, as Jacob of old with the angel. Like unto shipwrecked Paul on Melita's Desolate seashore. Strutted the lordly turkey, and crowed the cock with the self-same Voice that in ages of old had startled the penitent Peter. Hot and on his lips still burned the flush of the fever As if life, like the Hebrew, with blood had besprinkled its portals. LESSON DEPARTMENT 633 That the angel of death might see the sign and pass over. And these from The Courtship of Miles Standish: This is the hand of the Lord; it is laid upon me in anger, For I have followed too much the heart's desires and devices, Worshipping Astaroth blindly, and impious idols of Baal. This is the cross I must bear, the sin and the swift retribution. Giants in hearts they were, who believed in God and the Bible, Ay, who believed in the smiting of Midianites and Philistines. Forth from the curtain of clouds, from the tent of purple and scarlet. Issued the sun, the great High Priest, in his garments resplendent. Holiness unto the Lord, in letters of light on his forehead. Another of Longfellow's creations, in structure like that of the Canterbury Tales and doubtless inspired by Chaucer's creation, is Tales of A Wayside Inn. In his later years, the American poet, as professor of the chair of poetry at Harvard, gathered round him friends and students from not only his own but other countries. Go to the Wayside Inn in Sudbury, Massachusetts? preserved now as a shrine by Henry Ford, in tribute to Longfellow's work which gave the place literary immortality?and you may see photographs of some of these friends hanging on the wall. There, as the poet devised the setting for his tales, the group of friends would gather round the fireside, and share their stories. From the genial landlord, they were given the first one, "Paul Revere's Ride." Another, "King Robert of Sicily" came from a Sicilian; still another, already mentioned in the first of our lessons "The Saga of King Olaf" was related by the musician, Ole Bull. A Spanish Jew, a poet, a theologian, and a student, all add their favorite tales. And these, with prelude and interludes, are held together as with a strand?story gems made into a literary necklace. Many of the stories are closely linked with the Bible. This is true especially of "King Robert of Sicily," "The Legend Beautiful," and the "Legend of Rabbi Ben Levi." Others, like "The Birds of Killingworth" vibrate with the Christian spirit. And this may be said not only of Longfellow's poems as a whole, but of story-poems created by Whittier, Lowell, and other fine American poets. Space forbids more than this passing tribute due these creators of interesting, uplifting literature. Discussion and Activities 1. (a) What, in brief, does Chaucer portray in The Canterbury Tales? (b) Which of the religious pilgrims in the poem were worthy the name of Christian? Which were not? Why? 2. (a) Tell very briefly the background Bible story of Paradise Lost, (b) How does the theme of man's free agency link with the founding of our nation? With the world wars we have had? (c) What basic preparation had Milton for this masterwork? 3. (a) What, briefly, is the legend of the Holy Grail? (b) What qualities in Sir Galahad made it possible for him to see this vision? (c) How does Lowell in his Vision of Sir Launfal bring the Holy Grail closer to our lives? Sketch his story.  4. (a) Why may Longfellow be aptly called a great poet for both schools and homes? (b) Most folk get just story enjoyment from his narrative poems. What other riches are to be had from appreciative re-reading of Evangeline, The Courtship of Miles Standish, and Tales of A Wayside Inn?
5. (a) Prove with brief quotations from Chaucer, Milton, Tennyson, Longfellow, or other creators of narrative poetry, that a good working knowledge of the Bible is essential to an understanding of their story-poems.
6. Name from another poet?English or American?a narrative poem which links with the Bible in title, allusions, thought or spirit; for example, "Abou Ben Adhem" by Leigh Hunt.
Special References
Prologue to The Canterbury Tales, Chaucer.
Paradise Lost, Milton.
Idylls of the King?"The Holy Grail" and "Passing of Arthur," Tennyson.
Evangeline, Courtship of Miles Standish, Tales of A Wayside Inn, Longfellow. 
Social Science Modern Applications of Moral Principles Lesson 10?Leisure and Morals Dr. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, January 29, 1946 Lesson link: Drug addiction, alcoholism, gambling, unchastity, and other moral problems of personal conduct were analyzed last time. Causes and consequences in each of these areas of defiant behavior were emphasized, and it was shown that the effects of private immorality reach much farther than the offending persons themselves. Repentance was given as the way out. Lesson aim: To demonstrate a relationship between modes of recreation and morality, and to suggest ways for improving the morals of society by making better use of leisure time. MAN has not always enjoyed the leisure that he knows today. There was a time, not so long ago, when recreational activities were largely reserved for the privileged upper classes, and the common man was required to toil from dawn until dusk. But all of this has now been changed. No longer is there a special leisure class monopolizing both idleness and opportunity; instead, today, every class is a leisure class. In a remarkably short period of time the machine age has cut the working day in half, releasing, thereby, many surplus man hours for leisure-time activities. And the end is not yet. It is not at all improbable that technological progress in the future will reduce the working day to four or five hours, thus assuring the average man a large amount of leisure time.
But time is a responsibility as well as an opportunity, and, where improperly used, may prove to be a liability rather than an asset. Most people who get into trouble seem to do so in their spare time. The statement, "Idleness is the devil's workshop," is as true today as when it was first uttered, and yet there is more time for idleness now than ever before. Personal debaucheries, such as those discussed in the previous lesson, are in many cases the direct result of the dissipation of leisure time.
Recreation for Profit
Literally the term recreation means to revive, refresh or create anew; in other words, to "re-create." Actually, judging by the dissipation and immorality frequently carried on under its name, it could sometimes better be spelled "wreckreation" with emphasis on the "wreck." Leisure time is potentially a blessing, giving opportunity for rest, hobby activities, sports, social life, cultural developments, and artistic expressions; but it is often wasted or used unwisely, wrecking both health and character, and leaving misery in its wake.
The major reason for this perversion of leisure-time opportunity is the profit motive. Business interests, seeing the great increase of leisure that has taken place in the modern world, have capitalized upon the situation for the sake of private profit. It used to be that practically all recreational activities were in the home or other primary groups, were largely spontaneous, and were free. Now, however, there is an all-too-common feeling that to have any fun one must go out of the home and spend money for recreation. When the desire for profit comes in conflict with the welfare of the public it usually suffers, which explains the reason for so much of the corrupt in our leisure-time activities. With a few exceptions, commercialized recreation is concerned with profit rather than morals, and it is this disregard for the best interests of the public that accounts for so many of its lurid appeals and unfortunate influences.
Then, too, commercialized recreation is so often of the passive variety that, aside from any directly unwholesome influence it may have, it fails to restore or revive, and it may even actually fatigue or destroy the personality. We are too frequently spectators and too infrequently participants in leisure-time activities to get the most out of them. It is better to be an active player than a passive watcher or listener; to be really effective, recreation must be active and creative.
Another unfortunate tendency accompanying the profit motive in commercialized recreation is the development and acceptance of the "thrill" psychology. Thrills and super-thrills seem to characterize the spirit of the times. The real danger in this, of course, lies in the fact that continual thrills of the physical and sensuous type tend to blunt the finer sensitivities of man, blinding him to the deeper spiritual joys of life, and causing him to feel that he must not stop until he has tried everything. And, in such a frame of mind, when the "giant racer" variety of thrill no longer satisfies, he will sometimes seek for bigger thrills in robbery, sex crimes, etc.
The Picture Show
It has been estimated that at least one hundred million people attend Here is the OCR-corrected transcription of the excerpt:
the movies each week in this country, and that about twenty-eight million of these are minors. Since the picture show has such a widespread appeal as this, it might be well to inquire into its possible influence upon moral behavior.
There have been a number of studies dealing with the relationship between movie attendance and moral conduct, and they all point to the same general conclusion; namely, that movies are frequently a stimulus to delinquent conduct, particularly with youth.
The picture show is able to effectively dramatize and glamorize different modes of life to make them appealing. As a result, Hollywood sets the styles in mannerisms and morals as well as in clothes. Children and adolescents, because of their immaturity, are especially impressionable and susceptible to influence. In pictures dealing with crime the bad man usually gets caught, it is true, and the implication is usually left that "crime does not pay"; but to the adolescent the criminal's glamorous life is often more vivid and thrilling than is the somewhat dry fact that he pays in the end. Love and sex themes frequently arouse the romantic and sexual emotions and condition the attitudes of youngsters, with sexual experimentation and promiscuity as the result. Many a juvenile delinquent, and no few number of adults, have testified that they got their start in crime from the movies.
All of this raises the question of control, and there are essentially three points at which control might take place; (1) In production centers. The Will Hays office of censorship in Hollywood is successful in eliminating many of the objectionable features of each play, but it needs to go farther. The Catholic Legion of Decency, and other similar pressure groups, though smaller, have succeeded in wielding some desirable influence on movie producers, but they are too limited in their scope and power. There is need for a united movement on the part of all the public to demand that better shows be produced. (2) In the community. Some states and a few local communities have censorship laws to control the type of shows allowed to come in, but in most places the market is open to anything that will bring profit to the company regardless of whether it is good or bad from the standpoint of the community. Citizens need to develop a community consciousness to the extent that they will tolerate only the better pictures to be shown. (3) In the home. Fortunately, no one is compelled to see a movie just because it is shown in the community. But there are too many families that seemingly don't care where their members spend their time; too many parents who are indifferent to their children's absence or who may even send them to a show (without first informing themselves as to the kind of show) in order to get them out of the way. Movies of the right sort can be valuable aids in character building, but there are too many of the wrong sort and too many parents who either don't know or don't care. Of such is immorality bred.
The Public Dance Hall
Dancing itself is innocent enough, but the conditions and temptations surrounding the average public dance hall of the day are enough to
make of it a real moral problem. LESSON DEPARTMENT 637 Men and women of all ages come together without chaperonage and usually in search of a thrill. Many are unescorted. The hardened and depraved rub elbows with the innocent and adventurous. Lights are dimmed. The orchestra plays softly and romantically. Liquor is brought and passed around. ?Pickups" are made for the rendezvous after the dance. Regrets and despair too often await the dawn. Some may think that this picture of the public dance hall is painted overly dark; but if it is, it is only for the sake of emphasis. All that is said here is true, and while it must be recognized that many can attend the public dance and remain unharmed, yet it must also be admitted that many others cannot; and therein lies the danger. If liquor, unescorted attendance, and pickups could be eliminated from the public dance hall, it would be far more acceptable from the moral point of view. Parents and community workers should insist upon these reforms, but in the meantime they should strive to keep their children free from all such dangerous, immoral exposures. Miscellaneous Decreative Patterns Although the picture show and the public dance were singled out for special analysis, it should be remembered that there are a great many other patterns of "recreation-al" behavior that are decreative or demoralizing in their results. And some of these are even more destructive than the two mentioned above. Thriller radio programs, comics, and pulp magazines all join with the movies in furnishing morbid and distorted stimulation to the young. It might be just about as logical to speak of "our radio-made children" or "our comic-made children" as it is to speak of "our movie-made children," for in each case the effect of continuous exposure upon attitudes and behavior is rather profound. Overstimulation and overexcitement with emphasis upon the brutal and the gruesome is characteristic of a proportion of them all. It is even difficult to understand why the so-called comic magazines are spoken of as comics at all. As for the dime novel and the pulp magazine, the slant is so definitely toward sex, erotic love, and cheap adventure as to be revolting to all mature persons. But youth are not mature, and to permit them to be exposed to some of this vicious literature is a moral crime of considerable magnitude. The night club, the cabaret, the roadhouse, the pool hall, the "beer joint," the gambling den, the taxi dance hall, and the burlesque or "girl" show, are a few other types of leisure-time activities that frequently lead to extreme personal and social disorganization. Alcohol and sex used for profit, either singly or together, create very dangerous situations, regardless of the name of the institution used as a shield. Often, too, the problem is primarily one of sheer idleness, starting in boredom and ending in mischief. Personal disorganization resulting from the misuse of leisure time is not restricted to the big city with its high-powered temptations and its opportunities for anonymity. The small town is frequently just as much to blame, and this for the very reason that it fails to provide wholesome and challenging activities and interests. But, whatever the community, idleness when permitted to exist creates real moral problems. Loitering on the streets, "killing time" in the pool halls, and seeking thrills in the back alleys, all start with idleness and end with trouble. Leisure Time and the Community The blessing of abundant leisure time, which has come to man and which will increase all the more in the future, carries with it a great moral responsibility. That responsibility is to use this extra time well, to let it be the means of lifting man up to the better and nobler things of life. When dissipated, leisure time leads to both idleness and debauchery, examples of which we have seen throughout this lesson. When utilized in line with moral principles, it leads to richer experiences, deeper appreciations, and loftier satisfactions. Our job is to eliminate the waste and the wreckage of leisure, and to put in their place the finer and more wholesome things of life. Students of crime and delinquency frequently point to the lack of adequate cultural and recreational facilities in the community as a major factor in immoral and anti-social conduct. This is especially true with reference to the young. With time on their hands and the desire for fun, young people often find themselves faced with the limited alternatives of loitering on the streets or participating in some relatively unwholesome commercialized, leisure-time offering. No wonder so many of them get into trouble. It is high time that more of our communities awaken to the problem, as some are now doing, and provide decent places and programs for the enjoyment and development of the young during their leisure hours. Recreational centers should be developed, appealing cultural programs should be offered, ct cetera. Schools, churches, service clubs, and other groups can give valuable assistance to such a movement by talking it up, offering their facilities for the various activities, and by manifesting their willingness to co-operate in the larger, integrated community program. There is much that can be done on a community basis to check delinquency and develop morality in the young. Latent resources that could be utilized to combat these evil influences are abundant in every community. But to accomplish this, as it should be accomplished, will require the interest and united effort of all. Problems for Thought and Action 1. Explain how the great increase of leisure time has been possible. Why does leisure time, sometimes prove to be a liability rather than an asset? Give examples. Do you agree that most people who get into trouble do so in their spare time? Explain. 2. How does the profit motive lead to corruption in recreational activities? Give examples. Why has the increase in commercialized recreation paralleled the increase in leisure time? Is commercialized recreation always "wreckreation?" Defend your point of view. What is spectatoritis? Is it good or bad? Discuss. 3. Why are picture shows so influential in the shaping of attitudes and conduct? Show how movies have contributed to delinquency (as a basis for this the class leader may want to have someone give a brief review of Forman's Our LESSON DEPARTMENT 639 Movie Made Children). Select one or two recent picture shows that most of the class would have seen and criticize as to good and bad features. How can the quality of pictures produced and coming into the community be controlled? What is the particular responsibility of parents regarding movie attendance? Suggest ways and means of selecting the better pictures and of directing the attendance of children. Describe the major evils attending the average public dance hall, and explain why each is an evil. Is dancing itself an evil? Why not? Can you suggest any ways of eliminating the evils of the dance without eliminating dancing itself? Show how certain radio programs, comics, and magazine materials are unwholesome. If possible, ask class members ahead of time to listen to certain radio programs for children. Criticize these programs in class. Bring selected comics and pulp magazines to class as a basis for discussion. Describe other disorganizing leisure-time activities that may be in your community. 6. Why does leisure time. Carry with it a moral responsibility? Discuss ways that your community might organize for a better use of leisure time, and show how individuals and groups can help. Could the Relief Society do anything about this problem? Discuss. 7. Why is the Family Hour program, recommended by the Church, so influential in shaping attitudes and conduct? Selected References Standard Works: Bible: II Thessalonians 3:6-12. Doc. And Cov. 88:121-124; 136:28. Books by L. D. S. Authors: Discourses oi Brigham. Young, "Happiness and Social Enjoyment," pages 364-376. Milton Bennion, Moral Teachings 01 the New Testament (now available at