The Fight Against Infantile Paralysis Must Continue Frank S. Emery Utah State Representative, National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis  POLIOMYELITIS, commonly known as infantile paralysis, is caused by a virus, infinitesimally small, which lives on the nerve cells of the living body. The future activity of the victim depends upon the extent these nerve cells are affected.
Now, when we think of an epidemic, most of us are beset by fear that drives all reason from us and causes us to say and do things that, on sober thought, we never would do. With any sickness, it is wise to be careful and clean, but, with any sickness, it is foolish to become panicky. Poliomyelitis is a contagious disease, but, according to our present knowledge, it is not nearly so contagious as previously assumed. However, under our statutes, a polio patient must be isolated during the acute period so that he will not expose others to this serious infection.
It is believed by the medical profession that poliomyelitis virus is transmitted by common vectors or carriers. Dr. John R. Paul, an epidemician at the University of Utah, who has had considerable experience in epidemics, states that a survey which he made indicates that in the 1945 epidemic were traceable to four hundred cases reported during of contracting the disease through
direct contact is much less likely than formerly supposed.
However, there are now hundreds of victims of infantile paralysis who need care and attention from trained personnel, and hundreds more this year will swell the ranks of those afflicted with this dread disease. Early diagnosis and specialized care are essential to the well-being of a polio patient.
Physiotherapy is now a must in the treatment of poliomyelitis. Under the direction of competent physicians, physiotherapists are helping patients to recover from this disease and assisting crippled victims to do the things which heretofore have been regarded as impossible. Through the efforts of our medical men and women, hundreds of boys and girls, who might have been hopelessly handicapped, now have the use of their arms and legs, and, from all appearances, are normal men and women.
Technicians must be recruited and trained without delay. To this end, the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis has outlined a program for the recruiting and training of physiotherapists who will be available at the call of qualified physicians.
The Foundation has set aside the sum of $1,267,600 to be used for training men and women in the art of physiotherapy. These scholarships are now making it possible for people interested in the healing arts to acquire not only a dignified and lucrative profession, but also to become of immeasurable help to their fellow men. The National Foundation is very anxious that these scholarships be used.
The field is not limited to the treatment of poliomyelitis, but similar methods of treatment are being used in practically every branch of medical science. As our knowledge of diseases and their cause progresses, the need for physiotherapists becomes more obvious.
Scholarships for nine to twelve months' training at approved schools of physical education, covering expenses, books, and transportation, according to the needs of qualified students. Candidates for this specialized instruction must be capable of classification within one or more of the following groups:
(a) Graduates of approved schools of physical education.
(b) Graduates of schools of nursing.
(c) Students who have completed two or more years of college work, including twelve semester hours in biology and the basic sciences.
Anyone interested in these scholarships should communicate with the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, Inc., 120 Broadway, New York City 5, New York, or, more directly, with the local state or county chapter.
For the hundreds who are now being helped by the limited force of properly trained nurses and aides, thousands of the healing arts are needed. There are not enough trained people
care for those now afflicted and the many others who will undoubtedly contract the disease in future epidemics.
In the treatment of poliomyelitis, the application of hot-packs from the beginning is now an essential process. These hot-packs, depending upon the condition of the patient, must be applied from four to twelve times a day. In case of an epidemic, we do not have enough trained people to do this work.
There are many women who lack the educational requirements and the time necessary for becoming professional physiotherapists. These women may help in the fight against infantile paralysis by training themselves as aids in the nursing profession. In this way many mothers and many future mothers may learn the healing arts of hot-pack application and bedside nursing.
There is only one center in Utah offering proper training for nurse' aids in the treatment of poliomyelitis at the present time. A program has been outlined whereby each county will send to Salt Lake City at least three women for a tentative intensive course in hot-packing and beside nursing of infantile paralysis victims. Several competent and experienced physicians, assisted by various social service and nursing groups, will supervise this essential training. The expenses of the women will be carried by the auxiliary chapters of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis which have been organized in every county in Utah. Living quarters will be provided. When these women have completed their training, they will be asked, under the direction of the county medical authorities, to organize classes and train other women to be prepared in case of an emergency. Remember the needs of our children. Volunteer in the service of the healing arts. No mother knows when the dread poliomyelitis may strike one of her own children. If she has had training in the essential nursing procedures, a mother may render her child a service that might not otherwise be available. If you are unable to get in touch with your local chapter officers, contact the State Representative, Room 250, Union Pacific Annex, 19 West South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, or telephone 3-3126. Let us go forward in the fight against disease. Let us protect our children and care for them. It is today that we must prepare for the emergencies of tomorrow. "