Our Public Buildings Howard Barker Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, Salt Lake City Schools THE other day a five-year-old boy was "helping" his uncle with some carpenter work. The plane, Yankee drill, and other tools were very attractive. Without any preliminary discussion of the line of thought, the lad said, "When you die, can I have these tools?" His experience of the past two years in losing a father and grandmother had taught him that things outlive people. " This might be called axiom number one in our evaluation of public buildings. Axiom number two follows very logically: of all the works of man, public buildings are among the most enduring. In spite of the disintegration of time and the elements, and even of world wars, the pyramids of Egypt, St. Peter's in Rome, the leaning tower in Pisa, and countless other structures built many generations ago are still with us. But how valuable are our public buildings? NORTH AND SOUTH EIGHTEENTH WARD, ENSIGN STAKE, SALT LAKE CITY Chapel Built 1901 Page  Are they worth maintaining in good condition? Or, is it less expensive in the long run to do. as many of us have done with our automobiles, get as much use out of them as we can for a short time and then turn them in on new ones? Some of our public buildings have been designed and built to last and serve a long time. Examples of this type in Salt Lake City are the temple, the Utah State Capitol, and the L. D. S. Church Administration Building. These can be expected to be practically as valuable after a hundred years as when they were built. They will require relatively low maintenance expenditures and they are not likely to suffer rapidly from obsolescence. They are examples of axiom number three: the better the construction, the less the cost oi maintenance. But let's talk about the average church, or school, or library, or city hall. When most of these were built their builders were probably thinking in terms of a useful life of about forty or fifty years. Many of these structures are well past that age. But, since they have been maintained fairly well, they are worth more dollars today than when built. Worth more dollars today? That's a pretty strong statement. But if it is true, Our buildings are certainly worth maintaining at a high standard. What are the facts? The present worth of a building can be fairly accurately determined if we know three things: (1) the year in which it was built, (2) its original cost, and (3) a logical estimate of its depreciation. For example, $42 bought as much in 1890 as did $100 in 1926, or as did $127 in 1944. Putting it another way, each $100 worth of building in 1890 is now worth about $302, or each $100 worth in 1926 is now worth about $127. That is, this would be the relationship if we neglect depreciation. But suppose the 1890 building should now be depreciated by fifty per cent. It would still be worth about one and a half times as much today as when built. We can then state axiom number four: buildings become worth more as the purchasing power of the dollar declines. Now as to depreciation. There are two major factors: wear and tear due to use and the elements, and obsolescence. Both of these factors can be largely overcome by replacing worn parts and by functional remodeling to meet current needs  To give an idea of the relationship of depreciation costs to total building valuations, the values for the Salt Lake City school district might be interesting. There are now about fifty buildings, having a total 1945 valuation of about $11,500,000. Many of these buildings are now more than fifty years old. But, due to lower construction costs when they were built as compared to now, and to the consistent spending of maintenance money for the improvement or replacement of floors, roofs, heating, plumbing, ventilating and lighting equipment, etc., practically all of these buildings are worth more dollars today than when they were erected. The total maintenance cost for a fifty-five year period has averaged about $1.25 per $100 valuation per year. In this connection, however, it should be kept in mind that the valuations used for this comparison have been based on annual appraisals of present value which take into account variations in construction costs, and also as accurate depreciation data as are available. ST. GEORGE STAKE TABERNACLE, ST. GEORGE, UTAH Built in   What about deferred maintenance? When a building needs painting, repairing, or the replacement of any part, nothing can be saved by waiting. In fact, deferred maintenance will not only increase the ultimate maintenance cost, but will eventually wipe out the capital investment. There's an old saying that When you need a thing you pay for it whether you buy it or not." Let's list that as axiom number six. Its author must have had a life-long experience maintaining buildings. Our discussion thus far has all been on the logic of maintaining our public buildings from the standpoint of economics. The facts overwhelmingly indicate that as long as a building is worth using it is worth maintaining. We cannot afford otherwise. But there is another point. Our buildings are our children inanimate, yes but we have created them. Our care of them is a pretty good index of how we live and how we think. Enter a strange house by the back door, and by the time you have reached the kitchen you will know what the living room will look like. Or, walk into the boiler room of a public building and you will know the custodian (and maybe the fellow the custodian works for). Yes, our public buildings are built to be used and enjoyed. In their planning and construction let us seek the best architectural and building talent available. Harmony of mass, color, and line can typify our culture and our hopes. FOURTEENTH WARD, SALT LAKE STAKE, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Chapel Built in 1857 Good quality materials and workmanship can indicate our stability and our wisdom. But only good care can prove our thrift and our appreciation of the fine things of life. And, in the final analysis, this appreciation is measured in terms of such simple things as a broom, some soup, a hammer, a plane, a Yankee drill, a bucket of paint and a will to do.  Yes, Sonny, you can have my tools when I die, but remember, we can build a building in a year, but we have to take care of it for a century.