[Vol48 | April 1961 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
'I'M  SORRY  FOR  YOUR  FLOWERS' 
231 
Maybe  Cleo  shouldn't  say  quite 
so  much  facetiously,  but  since  it  was 
only  to  be  used  as  an  English  assign- 
ment in  a  college  class  a  hundred 
miles  away,  Beth  guessed  it  was  all 
right.  Anyway,  Sister  Loomis 
would  feel  like  haunting  her  house, 
if  she  could  see  how  the  numerous 
Wilsons  darted  around  it,  or  observe 
the  second  Wilson  boy,  Randy, 
plunging  this  minute  through  the 
opening  she  and  Beth  had  always 
kept  in  the  bridal  wreath  hedge  so 
they  could  take  a  short  cut  between 
their  two  houses.  She  would  have 
to  get  Ivor  to  plant  a  sturdy  bush  in 
that  gap,  she  thought,  as  she  glanced 
at  the  clock  and  discovered  that  it 
was  time  to  get  ready  for  Sunday 
School.  She  must  have  a  bath  and 
do  up  her  long  hair,  in  which  the 
gray  locks  were  beginning  to  pre- 
dominate over  the  brown. 
\717HILE  preparing  for  Sunday 
School,  Beth  allowed  herself 
to  relive  the  blossoming  of  her 
friendship  with  Sister  Loomis.  At 
first,  she  had  been  disappointed  to 
find  that  her  neighbor  on  the  cor- 
ner was  an  elderly  widow,  while  on 
the  other  side  lived  a  couple  whose 
only  children  were  twin  boys,  almost 
grown.  No  one  for  her  tots  to  play 
with  in  the  back  yards.  No  one  to 
talk  with  about  her  sewing,  or  to  go 
to  P  T  A  with  when  Ivor  could 
not  go  with  her. 
Then  she  had  started  to  plan  and 
plant  her  flower  beds.  ''Vm  sorry 
for  your  evergreens,"  Sister  Loomis 
would  say,  stepping  through  the 
newly  set  out  bridal  wreath  hedge. 
'"They  like  elbow  room,  and  you 
aren't  giving  them  much.  They  will 
end  up  scraping  the  paint  right  off 
your  house." 
Or,  "Fm  sorry  for  your  dahlias, 
Beth.  They  love  sunshine,  and 
you're  setting  them  right  where  it 
will  always  be  shady." 
There  had  been  moments,  too, 
when  Sister  Loomis  was  generous 
with  things  other  than  advice. 
''Here's  a  start  of  my  iris,  Beth.  It's 
from  the  start  my  son  brought  back 
from  his  mission.  It  came  from  the 
cemetery  at  Winter  Quarters.  Now 
it  should  grow  fine,  if  you  set  it 
right  here." 
Or,  "Come  and  taste  my  red  cur- 
rant jelly,  Beth.  We  made  some 
corn  meal  muffins.  We  should  have 
some  kind  of  refreshment  break 
occasionally." 
Beth  had  expected  her  sons  to 
dash  to  the  post  office  or  grocery 
store  for  the  older  woman.  They 
were  proud  of  what  they  had  done 
for  Sister  Loomis,  after  Beth  had 
urged  them  into  doing  it.  They 
liked,  now,  to  have  their  wives  told 
that  they  had  been  the  kind  of  boys 
who  helped  old  ladies. 
There  had  been  sad,  agonizing 
times,  though,  with  the  phone  shrill- 
ing out  in  the  night,  and  the  aging 
voice,  made  harsh  with  pain,  ''Beth, 
I've  got  a  terrible  gallstone  colic. 
Can  you  come  over  and  be  with 
me?    Beth,  I'm.  .  .  ." 
Of  course  Beth  could.  Through 
the  gap  in  the  hedge  she  would  go, 
while  Ivor  watched  at  the  window 
a  bit  protestingly,  and  then  went 
back  to  bed. 
Applying  the  electric  pad  and  hot 
water  bottle,  praying  with  Sister 
Loomis,  resting  on  the  dining  room 
couch  at  last,  just  before  morning, 
Beth  had  come  to  love  and  need  the 
older  woman,  as  one  comes  to  love 
and  need  those  one  serves.  And 
when  Sister  Loomis  finally  consent-

232  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1961 
ed  to  have  an  operation,  Beth  had  Rick,  the  five-year-old  Wilson,  all 
been  in  and  out  of  the  house  on  the  dressed  for  Sunday  School,  held  out 
corner,  first  in  anxiety,  finally  with  his    arms    to    the    puppy,    calling, 
gratitude.  ''Here,  Prince!    Here,  Prince!"    The 
She    remembered    other    phone  unco-operative  puppy  gamboled  mer- 
calls.  "Come  over,  Beth.  I've  learned  rily  off  in   the   opposite   direction, 
the  best  sherbet.     It's  all  fruit.     It  Scampering  after  him,  Rick  scooped 
could  never  hurt  the  touchiest  liver."  him  up.    The  puppy  promptly  be- 
Happy  years,  until  Sister  Loomis  was  gan    pawing    Rick's    best    clothes, 
really  very  old.    'This  old  age  busi-  while    Cherry    Ann,    though    only 
ness,  Beth,"  she  would  say  with  a  three,   called   out   urgently,    "He'll 
chuckle.  dirty  your  Sunday  School  coat!" 
Beth's  colorful  shag  rugs  from  the 
IVTOW,  with  Sister  Loomis  gone,  bedrooms  were  still  on  the  lines, 
Beth  had  found  time  to  sense  she  suddenly  remembered.  She  had 
that  all  of  the  original  neighbors  had  washed  them  yesterday  and  left 
either  moved  away  or  died,  until  she  them  hanging  out  to  dry  overnight, 
and  Ivor,  who  had  been  the  young-  Anything  hanging  on  a  clothesline 
est  couple  for  so  long,  were  the  very  was  always  so  much  bait  for  an  un- 
oldest.  All  the  newcomers  were  trained  puppy.  Besides,  she  did  hate 
extremely  busy  and  bustling.  They  to  see  things  hanging  on  a  clothes- 
did  not  need  Beth  or  even  seem  to  line  on  Sunday, 
have  time  to  notice  that  she  was  Could  she  just  step  quietly  out 
there.  and  snatch  them  in   now  without 
The  change  on  the  corner  was  the  attracting  'Trince"  to  snag  her  best 
most   noticeable   of  all,   with    four  nylons?     If  Rick  would  only  keep 
youngsters  often  playing  dolls  in  the  holding   him   for  a   few  moments, 
little  grape  arbor  that  Sister  Loomis  Buttoning  her  housecoat  clear  down, 
had  always  cherished  with  an  almost  Beth   went  out   through   the  back 
comical  zeal,  and  Randy  sometimes  porch    and    sped    quietly    to    the 
e\  en  walking  his  bike  through  the  clotheslines.    She  could  feel  a  short 
gap  in  the  hedge.  end  from  her  coil  of  hair  switching 
Beth   had    coiled    her   long    hair  about,  but  it  was  no  time  to  worry 
neatly  and  was  just  beginning  to  con-  about  that.  She  was  reaching  for  the 
ccal  hairpins  deftly  in  its  soft  waves,  last  rug,  when  Mrs.  Wilson's  voice 
when   she   became   conscious   of   a  came  from   a   back   window,   "Put 
yapping  on   the  corner.     She  half  Prince    down.    Rick!     Right    now, 
remembered  a  vague  sense  of  hear-  Rick!" 
ing  the  same  sound  in  the  night.  The  yapping  began  again  as  Beth 
Not  a  puppy!  She  would  just  step  snatched  the  last  rug  and  started  for 
o\'er  and  part  the  bedroom  cur-  the  house.  Remembering  her  fa- 
tains  to  see.  Oh,  but  it  was,  and  ther's  long-ago  coaching,  "Never  run 
an  Airdale,  at  that!  Beth  had  always  from  a  dog,"  she  walked,  anything 
suffered  from  an  unreasonable  fear  but  calmly,  toward  the  porch, 
of  dogs,  especially  Airdalcs.     They 
were    so    disturbinglv    active!     She  I N  spite  of  her  prudence,  the  pup- 
looked  on  in  mounting  dismay,  as  py  observed  her.     Through  the

'I'M  SORRY  FOR  YOUR  FLOWERS" 
233 
hedge  he  frisked.  He  snatched  at 
the  ends  of  the  rugs  dangHng  from 
her  left  arm.  Forgetting  all  rules, 
Beth  stamped  her  foot  at  him.  She 
shooed  at  him  with  the  last-grabbed 
rug,  which  was  still  clutched  in  her 
light  hand.  A  wild  dash  brought 
her  to  the  screen  door.  She  snatched 
it  so  violently  that  the  hook  flipped 
up  and  descended  into  the  loop,  all 
in  one  second. 
Locked  out  of  her  own  house, 
Beth  shooed  with  the  rug  again. 
The  puppy  had  become  a  leaping 
bundle  of  active  muscles.  Both  chil- 
dren were  scampering  through  the 
hedge,  shouting,  ''Here,  Prince," 
and,  "Here,  boy,"  in  a  confusing 
medley. 
Then  Prince  was  scooped  up  for 
a  second  opportunity  to  paw  little 
Rick's  best  coat.  Erma  Wilson 
emerged  through  the  hedge,  com- 
pleting the  zipping  up  of  her  pink 
duster,  and  calling,  ''Rick,  take  that 
puppy  to  Cathy  and  tell  her  to  shut 
him  in  the  basement.  Then  tell  her 
to  brush  and  straighten  your  coat 
for  vou." 
"Sister  Akers,"  Erma  went  on 
compassionately,  "you're  deathly 
white.  Sit  down  on  the  step,  and 
ril  get  you  a  glass  of  water." 
As  Erma  reached  for  the  screen 
door,  Beth  said  shakily,  "It's  hooked. 
The  hook  flipped  on  when  I  tried  to 
hurry." 
Beth  could  not  help  laughing  at 
the  ridiculousness  of  being  so  afraid 
of  a  little  puppy  that  a  child  of  five 
could  almost  manage.  "I'll  go 
around  to  the  front  door,  Sister  Wil- 
son," she  said,  starting  around  the 
house.  Then,  noticing  the  concern 
in  Erma  Wilson's  blue  eyes,  she 
added,  "I'm  all  right.  I  don't  have 
heart  trouble  or  anything.     I   just 
got  panicky  when  I  couldn't  get  in. 
It's  silly  to  be  so  afraid  of  a  little 
dog." 
"Oh,  everyone's  afraid  of  some- 
thing," said  Erma,  accompanying 
her.  "Don't  ever  show  mc  any 
pretty  beetles  you  catch.  They 
make  me  shudder  all  over." 
The  front  door  was  still  locked. 
Ivor  had  not  released  it  when  he 
picked  up  the  morning  paper,  and 
he  had  left  through  the  back  door. 
"I'll  get  in  when  mv  husband 
comes  for  me.  He  carries  a  key," 
Beth  stated.  "You'd  better  go  fin- 
ish getting  readv  for  Sunday  School. 
Time's  passing  by." 
"But  then  you  won't  be  ready," 
protested  Erma. 
"We  can  miss  Sundav  School,  if 
we  have  to,  and  get  there  in  time 
for  fast  meeting,"  said  Beth.  "I 
must  be  a  comical  sight,  with  this 
misplaced  pony-tail  on  the  side  of 
my  head."  She  attempted  to  put 
her  hair  back  into  a  coil  with  the 
few  hairpins  remaining  on  her  head. 
"Now,  you  run  along,"  she  urged. 
"But  it's  Prince's  fault,"  Erma 
protested. 
"It's  my  fault  for  being  such  a 
scare  baby,"  said  Beth. 
Y/LTHILE  they  returned  mechani- 
cally to  the  back  screen  door, 
they  were  joined  by  Erma's  five 
youngsters,  who  followed  along  as 
interested  spectators. 
"Cathy  could  go  down  to  the 
church  on  the  bike  after  the  key," 
mused  Erma,  "but  I'd  hate  to  dis- 
turb Brother  Akers  in  Priesthood 
meeting.  He'd  think  something 
serious  had  happened,  and  so  would 
everyone  else.  Besides,  Priesthood 
meeting  would  be  almost  over  be- 
fore she  could  get  back."