[Vol48 | April 1961 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Fiction | Title: Love Is | Author: Harmer]
Love Is Enough CHAPTER 4 Mabel Harmer Synopsis: Geniel Whitworth, a schoolteacher from Denver, Colorado, takes a position at Blayney, Idaho, and lives at Mrs. Willett's boarding house. She meets Christine Lacy and Marva Eberhart, fellow schoolteachers, Mrs. Willett's nephew, Jeff Burrows, a rancher, and Johnny Linford, who is working for the forest service. Geniel finds these friends quite different from Ermest Wood, her friend in Denver. The schoolteachers and Mrs. Willett spend Thanksgiving at Jeff's ranch. A ne Thanksgiving holidays were no sooner over and school days resumed than almost everyone began dropping remarks about the pageant. "What pageant?" asked Geniel at the dinner table. "Ha," Marva intoned ominously, "you'll find out." "It sounds pretty bad," said Geniel, drawing her sweater closer together. "When and how do I find out?" "It isn't bad at all," said Christine with a smile. "But it does mean a lot of work for all of us. Miss Blayney...." "Whom you will remember as the patron saint of the Central School," interrupted Marva. "Miss Blayney," Christine _ repeated, "writes a pageant every year. Our school has the honor of producing it." "Under her eagle and uncompromising eye," Marva continued. "Well, naturally, she wants to be sure that everything goes well. I suppose that any author feels the same towards her brain child. The youngsters really all look forward to it every year. The mothers make costumes, and the various acts and scenes are divided up among all the classes, so that none of us has too much to do. Not enough to make it a burden, anyway." "Correct," agreed Marva. "And if we could do it in our own way, or even all work together under one capable director, it would be fine. But we struggle along for fear Miss Blayney will decide we are all wrong, or that even she hersclf has erred slightly, and change the act, change the cast, change the scenen. "Oh, I know it can't be as bad as you say," laughed Geniel. "You're just trying to scare me." "Hm, just you wait," replied Marva darkly. "I know one thing," Geniel commented, "after the brush I had with her last fall when I missed her big dinner, I better not make any mistakes on this affair." "You or anvone else,' agreed Marva, "although why we are all so scared of her, I'm not too sure. I doubt if she could do more than get us fired — and schoolmarms are hard to come by these days." N another few days copies of the pageant were handed out to the teachers. It was titled "The First Christmas." "It gets various titles," said Christine, "but it's usually about the same thing." "Which any eighth grader could Page 26] 262 have written," added Marva, "but it's up to us to make a shining performance." Geniel was given the episode of the herald angels appearing to the shepherds. Since there were only a few lines to be spoken by the shepherds and one song for the angels, it didn't seem a very formidable assignment. "We have quite a stock of costumes from other years," Mr. Layton, the principal, told her, "especially of angels and shepherds, so you won't have to worry on that account." When Genicl asked the members of her class which ones would like to be shepherds, the hands of every boy in the room went up — sixteen in all. She knew before asking that every girl would want to be an angel. The script called for six shepherds and a chorus of eight angels. Besides, there were costumes for only six of each. "I can manage to get a dozen angels on the stage," she decided, "by putting them close together. And white nightgowns, or wornout sheets will do for costumes. But how to manage almost triple the number of shepherds is something else again. And how to costume them is another problem. I'm grateful that I don't have to bring out the three kings of the Orient. ['m sure that I couldn't get by with a dozen or so extra there." 'You could choose them by taking the six with the highest spelling grades," Marva suggested. "Hardly anyone gets rewarded for being a good speller these days." "Td be sure to end up with the six who had the least stage presence — if there is such a thing in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1961 third grade. No, I'm going to get them all in the act by fair means or foul. 'They were so eager — bless their hearts." "Good luck to you," said Marva. "But let me warn you that when Miss Blayney puts six shepherds in her act, six is what she wants and not sixteen." "As long as the stage will hold them, I'll figure it out," said Geniel optimistically. HE rehearsals went forward with a dozen angels singing beautifully, and sixteen shepherds posed over and over again on the stage until they took up the least possible space. Geniel pondered over the problem of additional costumes and finally decided that she would have to go and see several of the mothers. She was afraid that merely sending word home by the children would not bring the desired results. In this project she had to call on Johnny for help one Saturday morning. "In the interests of the annual Christmas pageant, to be presented by the Central School, you'd be glad to chauffeur me around for a couple of hours, wouldn't you?" she asked sweetly. "With the greatest of pleasure," he replied. "It's the least I can do for the cause. Although, in years gone by I've been everything from Kris Kringle to a lame beggar. I nearly always had a star part of some kind." "What refreshing modesty!" exclaimed Geniel. "About the costumes — we only have to get ten. There are six on hand in the school collection." She had expected that the trip LOVE IS ENOUGH - would be something of a chore, but instead it turned out to be a delightful afternoon. Several of the mothers she met for the first time. It was not surprising that Johnny knew them all. Nor was it too surprising that they not only knew him but obviously liked him very much. Before they had started out, he said, "When we're through with the collecting we'll go for a toboggan ride. All work and no play makes Jane a you-know-what." He had chartered their course to make the circuit as quickly as possible, but it was soon clear that they wouldn't get through in time for any tobogganing — at least, not that afternoon. The first stop was at the home of Chris Humphreys. "One of my lesser lights,' she explained. "His chief talent is for drawing. He never gets half the answers right on his arithmetic, but the decorations are absolutely fascinating." Mrs. Humphreys welcomed them with exuberant hospitality. She served them hot cider and doughnuts, showed them the stuffed cloth animals she had made for various nieces and nephews and at least two dozen samples of Chris' art work. It was with some difficulty that Geniel got around to the subject of costumes. "Bath robes, no indeed!" Mrs. Humphreys replied scornfully. "I have a striped blanket from Mexico. It will make a beautiful robe. And I also have just the thing for the top. 'This purple silk I am going to make into a blouse. But not before Christmas. It will make a fine headdress." When they were finally able to tear themselves away, Johnny said 263 cheerfully, "Well, one down and just nine more to go. Mrs. Rossiter is next on the list. Does Fred draw?" "No. Fred drawls. Let's hope that his mother doesn't. I must get through this afternoon or I'll have to make the rest of the costumes myself." Mrs. Rossiter was so shy that she was obviously relieved to get the visit over with as quickly as possible. The balance of the calls took the rest of the afternoon, but Genicl ended up with a plentiful supply of costumes. "It's been worth while to get better acquainted with the parents in their own homes, too," she said. "I guess this spree takes the place of the toboggan party." "Not at all," declared Johnny. "We'll scare up another couple or two and go sliding by moonlight. It's even more fun that way — and colder." "It does sound like fun," she agreed. "I'm sure that Marva would like to go. And, maybe we can get Jeff." "Sure. It would do him good to get out of the barnyard for a change. I never did see a guy so wrapped up in his cows." "That's elegantly put,' smiled Geniel. "But rather correctly, Pm afraid. Anyway, it won't hurt to ask."? ARVA was delighted to go. She was always ready for a party of any kind, anywhere. "Jeff says it's okay with him," Johnny reported after phoning. "He'll be through with his milking by seven. He says that we can come to his place for chili afterwards, too." "Good!" cried Geniel. ""This begins to sound like a grand affair." 264 She was especially glad that Jeff was going and was hoping that this time she weuld be able to maintain some semblance of dignity. At any rate, she couldn't make herself ridiculous by getting stuck in the mud. "Tl pick you up right-after dinner," said Johnny. "And be sure to put on your boots and snowsuit. Nobody has swept a path on those hills, or installed a ski lift." He was right about the ski lift and wrong about the path. Several other parties were on the hill and the snow was packed down hard. It had been vears since Geniel had been on a toboggan. "It's just too far away to get to a real hill in Denver," she said. "About the best we could manage were a few gentle slopes for coasting." "It all goes to show there's just no place like Idaho," declared Jeff. "The best in spuds, mountains, scenery, snow. " "Men," added Johnny. "Granted," agreed Marva easily, as she slipped down on the toboggan. Johnny sat in front to guide. Geniel was just behind Marva and Jeff at the back to give the necessary push. I was a thrilling ride. Geniel thought that no plane trip could possibly compare with it. The moonlight sparkled on the white snow, untouched by city smoke. 'There were whoops of joy from each passing crowd, either going up or down the hill. Once, when they hit a bump and all bounded up in the air, Geniel was caught by Jeff's strong arms. His touch was almost like an electric shock, and she caught herself RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1961 wishing that they would hit another bump. It's nothing more than the excitement of the evening, she tried to tell herself. But it seemed that only a part of her was listening; the other self was hoping to be held again by those same arms. It seemed as if they had been there only a matter of minutes when Johnny said, "My appetite is getting to the unbearable stage. Do you suppose that chili is hot yet?" "Sure." replied Jeff. "It was when I left. So is the cider and so forth." The other three started towards the car but Geniel hesitated. Would she ever again capture the magic of this night? She felt as if she would give anything for just one more ride. "Are you coming?" demanded Johnny. "Or do you want your face washed in the snow first?" "Yes, 'm coming. I don't want to see you starve before my very eyes," she answered reluctantly. They drove over to Jeff's house where they enjoyed the hot food before the big fireplace with its blazing logs. "This makes all of my troubles seem vague and far away,' said Geniel, stretching her feet towards the fire. "Troubles, such as...?" inquired Jeff. "Such as sixteen shepherds, when there should be only eight, and twice too many angels. Each and every one in the third grade wants to get into the act, and I didn't have the heart to refuse even the lowhiest one. If it was anybody's play but Miss Blayney's, I wouldn't worry. And perhaps I needn't anyway. Maybe she won't say a word." "It's much more likely that she LOVE IS ENOUGH will," comforted Marva grimly. "I remember last year when we tried to have a golden-haired Madonna, because we wanted to use Margaret Stapley in the tableau. She'd had polio and couldn't do a walking part. We had to rig up a dark wig in the twenty minutes between the first curtain and the tableau. This thing has to be perfect, I'm telling you. It's a tradition." "But all the boys want to be shepherds,' Geniel insisted. "Besides, Johnny and I gathered up almost a dozen elegant costumes this afternoon." "Could you possibly rotate them?" suggested Jeff. "You know — you might have some of them move slowly across the stage as others come on. Follow the star, in other words." "Oh, that sounds perfectly wonderful!'' cried Geniel. "I knew there must be a way out, somehow or other. It certainly must be perfectly logical that they would follow the star." "Let us hope that Miss Blayney will think so," said Marva, still highly skeptical. When it came time to go home, Geniel was almost as loath to leave the coziness of the grate fire as she had been to leave the magic of the snowy hillside. I guess it's just that I don't want to return to the old routine at all, she decided. It's so much fun just to relax and play. WHEN they were back at the Seedine house, Marva _remarked lightly, "You know, Johnny is right about the Idaho men. They are rather special. At least, these two are.' "Is either one any more special 265 than the other?" Geniel asked with a smile. Marva only shrugged. The gesture told Geniel nothing. She looked forward eagerly now to the Monday rehearsal. Everything seemed to be working out wonderfully well. She had an ample supply of costumes and, with Jeff's help, she had figured out a way to put sixteen shcpherds on the stage in place of a mere six. "Thank goodness, the stage will be in semi-darkness, so it shouldn't be too noticeable anyway," she said happily. The main problem now was to teach them to move slowly and spend as much time as possible gazing up at the star. She also trained the angels to stand partly sidewards so that the chorus would take up no more room than half a dozen would have done. At least, not very much more. Just the same Geniel practically held her breath at the final rchearsal, for Miss Blayney was sitting close up to the front and had offered very liberal criticisms during each of the preceding scenes. Geniel had taken her charges through the act so many times that it went off without a mistake or hitch of any kind. When it was over, Miss Blayney said nothing whatsoever. Geniel breathed a deep sigh of relief. She didn't expect or even hope for praise. All she wanted was to get each and every member of the third grade onto the stage, if only for a brief moment. For the final performance on Friday night she was not greatly worried, even when she remembered that a blonde had to be transformed in twenty minutes the previous year. She figured that it would be too late 266 for Miss Blayney, or anyone else to make any drastic changes. Anyway, it developed that the lady had more serious worries. The three live lambs, which she had insisted upon having in the stable, were neither used to being on the stage nor to night life. True to their nature, they went astrav back into the scenery, knocking over one wall. Each of the three kings of the Orient came in dark makeup, because the teacher had mentioned that one of them could be dark. 'Two of them had to be scrubbed at the last minute. Miss Blayney failed to see anything amusing in either incident. When the spotlight fell upon the angel chorus, Geniel was telling herself, well, nothing can go wrong with this part, anyway. But she had reckoned without the children in the audience. A small brother of Connie's shrieked at the top of his lungs, "Look Mommie! Connie's an angel!" For a moment Geniel feared that the shy Connie might turn and run or drop from sight, but they were all standing so closely together that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1961 she couldn't do either, and the crisis passed. She was very pleased when it was over to see Jeff waiting in the audience. "I just thought 'd come and see if you got away with it," he smiled. "Yes, thanks to you," she smiled back. "Thanks from all of the third grade, their mothers — and their little brothers." "I suppose you're going home for the holidays?"" It was a casual question, but Geniel had a notion that he half hoped she would say "no." Unaccountably she half wished so herself. Instead she replied, "Yes, I'm leaving first thing in the morning. It's a long way around by bus." "But worth all the trouble, I'm sure. I hope that certain parties appreciate their good fortune." "Qh, my folks will be glad to have me home, of course," she answered quickly. "I've never missed a Christmas at home yet. None of us has, in fact." Jeff only smiled and said, "Have a merry one." (To be continued) Prayer of a Second Wife Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Dear understanding God, help me be wise To sense the past and present interlacing, To know the moment to be self-effacing, To feel when love unveiled should fill my eyes. My heart needs time to learn, to recognize The subtle changing moods of one replacing Old designs with new, while still embracing Sacred memories. Help me be wise! General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. Sce regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Hazel M. Brinson INDIANAPOLIS STAKE (INDIANA) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION August 3, 1960 Front row, at the left, left to right: Marguerite O'Niones, work meeting Icader; Lena Morton, First Counsclor; Hazel M. Brinson, President; Beverly McAdam, Second Counselor. Front row, at the right, left to right: Anne Kreitzer, acting chorister; Bethea Dale, acting organist; C. Lowell Hedrick of the High Council, representing the stake prestdency. Second row, at the left: Barbara Jordan, literature class leader; at the right: Beverly Ferguson, theology class leader. Sister Brinson reports that their first Visiting Teacher Convention was a great success. A well-planned and supervised nursery was conducted by Shirley Goodinan and Katherine Barney during the convention. The film "Unto the Least of 'These"' was shown twice between the opening session of the convention and the luncheon, and women attending the convention were divided to two groups by birthday months for the showing of the film. While the film was in progress, the alternating group imspect- I ed the display tables and saw the demonstrations given there. A demonstration on I home freezing was given by Mrs. Vander Griff, county home demonstration agent, and a fashion show was presented by the Connersville Branch Relief Socicty. Vhe declightful luncheon was planned and prepared by the Indianapolis Second Ward sisters and ie served by the stake Relief Society board. Page 267 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 269 Front row, scated, left to right: Emilie Wolthers, Second Counsclor, Netherlands Mission Relief Socicty Board; Johanna Frolich, First Counselor; Fawn W. Volker, President, Netherlands Mission Relief Society; Wilhelmina A. Linneman, Sccretary-I'reasurer. Sister Volker reports: "We, the sisters of the Netherlands, are very happy with the results of a convention held at the Hague chapel for the supervisors and officers of the various branches. 'The purpose was to impart instruction, exchange ideas, and create enthusiasm for the new eight months of work ahead. The morning session was devoted to reviewing handbook instructions and thorough preparation of the lessons and activitics of the society. The sisters of the Hague Branch decorated the luncheon tables and served the lunch. Vases of the beautiful golden dahlias of Holland were placed in the chapel and on the displav table. For the display table, each branch brought samples of beautiful and interesting articles made for their bazaars. 'The afternoon speakers used the different lessons for their subjects. Punch was served at the close of the convention, as most of the sisters had a long way to go. It took some three to four hours to reach home. There was a marvelous spirit throughout the day and an eagerness for the instructions given. "Affairs such as this are very rewarding. They bring together the various branches in delightful association and comradeship, and it was apparent that a spiritual uplift was brushed off on to all. These are wonderful sisters, and their contribution in time and effort is like the work of mothers in the home, who keep the family together." Photograph agiinitted = Pear! 1 H. Haddock CACHE STAKE (UTAH), SEVENTEENTH WARD WORK MEETING DISPLAY, August 21, 1960 Left to right: Alvira Larson, First Counselor; Benta Whecler, President; Inez Sorcnson, work Tceting leadcr; Elmira Brown, Second Counselor; Selma Lenhart, SecretaryTreasurer; Ruby Hawkins, a work meeting chairman; Ada Jensen, quilting chairman. Pearl R. Haddock, President, Cache Stake Relief Society, reports that this display of outstanding handwork was presented in connection with a fashion show in which members of the Relicf Socicty and their children modeled clothing which had been made by Relief Socicty women. Ada Jensen made the rugs shown in the picture and designed the patterns for the quilts. Amy Ewer, absent when the picture was taken, made the afghan. Numerous aprons and household articles, in addition to those illustrated in the picture, were made for the occasion and were attractively displayed. 270 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1961 Photograph submitted by Eva N. Dalton PANGUITCH STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD HONORED FOR MANY YEARS OF SERVICE, October 29, 1960 Front row, seated, left to right: Edrie W. Norton, Second Counselor; Eva N. Dalton, President; Vera K. Anderson, First Counselor; Elizabeth 'T. Smith, SecretaryTreasurer. Back row, standing, left to right: Lois W. Haycock, Nina H. Steele, Hope W. Goulding, Nellie H. Fullmer, Beth R. Tebbs, Myrtle Slack, 'Thelda H. Thompson, Metta D. Reid. Eva N. Dalton, President, Panguitch Stake Relief Society, reports: "The members of the Panguitch Stake Relief Society Board enjoyed a very special evening on October 29, 1960. The feature of the evening was the presentation of the Church service record of each of the sisters. 'These board members have held positions in both ward and stake Relief Society and have served as officers and teachers in all of the ward and stake women's auxiliary positions. The list of officers held by this board will attest to the versatility of the sisters of our Stake." Photograph submitted by LaPriel S. Bunker CALIFORNIA MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY LEADERSHIP CONVENTION September 17, 1960 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 271 Third row, standing at the right: President Bryan L. Bunker of the California Mission; at the right of President Bunker: William F. Jackson, First Counselor, California Mission; standing, eleventh from the left (back of the sister holding the book): Cressa Hunsaker, President, San Gorgonio District Relief Society. Front row, at the right: LaPriel S. Bunker, President, California Mission Relief Society Second row, kneeling: sixth from the left (in dark dress), Velma H. Peterson, President South Coast district (District recently organized into Palomar Stake, with Sister Peterson as the first president); ninth from the left, Phyllis Averett, President, Mt. Whitney District. President LaPriel S. Bunker reports: "A temple excursion to the Los Angeles temple--was a beautiful spiritual prelude to our convention. The spirit carried over into our general meeting and departments which were led by our very humble and efficient district leaders. We were grateful to have the Priesthood leaders of districts and branches as our guests. They caught the spirit of the Relief Society program and the opportunities the sisters enjoy spiritually, intellectually, and compassionately. 'The Singing Mothers from one of our districts furnished lovely music. Following the meeting, we were served a luncheon in the patio of the California Mission home, with very clever decorations of the first Relief Society sisters as dolls at each place setting. It was all a glorious experience and enjoyed by all." Photograph aabaittted by Harriet W. Capps SOUTH, CAROLINA STAKE BOARD AT VISITING TEACHERS; CONVENTION, November 19, 1960 Front 'row, seated, left to right: Malcolm B. Fagan, Work Director Counselor; Harnet (Hattie) W. Capps, President, South Carolina Stake Relief Society; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society; Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor, General Presidency of Relief Society; Lottie P. Joyner, Education Counselor; Phodia W. Guest: Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, standing, left to right: Mildred G. Jensen, literature class leader; Nellie B. Opie, organist; Beulah T. Watson, visiting teacher message leader; Florence W. Watkins, Magazine representative; Louise H. Laffidy, literature class leader; 'Thelma W. Flowers, work meeting leader; Ethel S. Moody, chorister; Alice B. Voyles, social science class leader. President Harriet W. Capps reports: "The convention was a great success. It was well attended, with around 175 present, many traveling distances of 150 miles. The spirit was wonderful, and the inspiration the visiting teachers received will be a great help to us. Greetings were extended by Sister Capps, with talks by Minnie Ricke, one 272 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1961 of the first visiting teachers in South Carolina, President Benjamin W. Wilkerson, Counselor Sharp, and President Spafford. Music was furnished by the Columbia Ward and Columbia Second Ward Singing Mothers. A luncheon and social hour was held following the convention, honoring all visiting teachers. The recciving line was made up of Sister Spafford and Sister Sharp and the stake Relief Society presidency. 'This gave cach visiting teacher a chance to meet our General President and her Counselor. "The decorations were lovely, with floral arrangements of fall flowers and fruit. Lunchcon was served buffet style, with Mildred G. Jensen pouring punch from a beautiful silver bowl. Later in the afternoon, the stake board honored Sisters Spafford and Sharp in the home of Alice B. Voyles, which was beautifully decorated with fall flowers. An informal afternoon was spent in discussing everyday problems that arise in Relicf Society. A delicious dinner was enjoyed, which climaxed a highly successful and inspirational meeting." Photograph submitted by Evelyn P. Brown I BURBANK STAKE (CALIFORNIA), NORTH HOLLYWOOD WARD PRESENTS "RELIEF SOCIETY TREASURE CHEST" AT OPENING SOCIAL Front row, left to right: Dorothy Lamkin, literature class leader; La Rae Mathieson, social science class leader; Kathryn Wegman, President; Leona Jensen, I: ducation Counselor. Second row, left to right: Clara Gold, chorister; Edith Allaback, visiting teacher message leader; Phyllis Richardson, instructor of work meeting coursc, "Caring for the Sick in the Home"; Etmo Zellmer, Magazine representative. Back row, left to right: Marilyn Johnson, organist; Gloria Moser, theology class leader. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 273 Evelyn P. Brown, President, North Hollywood Stake Relief Society, reports this unique and lovely occasion: 'Each board member presented a different 'jewel' of truth for the Relief Society "Treasure Chest,' explaining the symbol of each jewel as related to this year's courses of study and activities. The crown was presented as a climax, embodyimg all of the truths to be found in Relief Society activity. The program was also presented at the October leadership meeting in Burbank Stake." Pistece Kitelon Alice R. Rich ie word togetherness has a deeper meaning for me than the dictionary definition. The sound of it invites me to travel a childhood trail back to my mother's pioneer kitchen, the big family workshop. That room knew the true meaning of the word. A burning pine back log in the wide fireplace warmed and helped make light the work space. All the family from parents to the young children shared in the preparation of almost everything the big family ate or wore. The farm, garden, orchard, and range land, with hand labor, produced the bread, milk, meat, butter, cheese, chickens, eggs, fruit, vegetables, honey, molasses, wool, and even boots and shoes. These last were made from oil-tanned hides made into leather at a local tannery. Ours was a typical pioneer kitchen. It had wide pine-board floors, whitewashed walls, iron cookstove. Woodbox, wash bench, water buckets and wash basin, roller towel, mirror, comb case, sewing machine, almanac, and wood chairs. In the middle of the room was the big fall-leaf table, and around it much of the work of togetherness centered. On that sturdy oilcloth-covered table many hands worked in various activities. There the year's supply of farm-fattened, dressed hogs were trimmed; the hams, bacon, lard, headcheese, spareribs, tenderloin, and sausages were readied for table use for the present time and for the months ahead. On that table top were prepared the orchard and garden grown viands for preserves, jellies, mincemeat, chowchow, chili sauce, sweet pickled peaches, and relishes. On its oilcloth cover were rolled and shaped pie paste, cookies, fned cakes, cinnamon buns, and the tender soda biscuits. Fresh from the oven the great tins of homemade bread came to cool, always so crusty and tempting. The weekly ironings were always done on the same table top, and 'there were pinned dress and suit patterns for the family sewing. Above its top hung the coal-oil lamp that lighted it for an eating board, and for evening reading. Around it, as an altar, we knelt for morning and evening prayer. Within the radius of the lighted fireplace's warmth and light, through the long winter evenings, we sewed carpet rags, pieced quilt blocks and did the family kn