[Vol48 | April 1961 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Cancer | Author: Tudor]
[Cancer Is Everybody's Business, Wallace W. Tudor,]
I N  April,  proclaimed  by  Congress  as  Cancer  Control  Month,  the  Ameri- 
can Cancer  Society  will  launch  its  1961  Educational  and  Fund-raising 
Crusade.  Two  million  volunteers  are  working  in  the  three  phases  of  the 
Society's  program  —  Research,  Education,  and  Service.  These  crusaders 
are  from  all  walks  of  life  —  doctors,  housewives,  teachers,  businessmen, 
Industrialists,  Government  officials,  labor  and  religious  leaders  —  all  lend- 
ing their  diversified  and  proven  abilities  to  the  great  fight  against  cancer. 
You  might  ask,  ''What  concern  is  cancer  to  me?"  Looking  into  the 
facts  soon  brings  to  light  that  cancer  is  an  indiscriminate  killer  that  might 
strike  any  one  of  us  .  .  .  that  will,  indeed,  at  some  time  strike  one  in  four 
of  us.  This  means  that  the  staggering  total  of  forty-five  million  Ameri- 
cans, now  living,  will  eventually  develop  the  disease,  if  the  present  rate 
continues. 
When  we  realize  that  there  is  no  way  of  knowing  whom  cancer  will 
strike,  one  fact  becomes  crystal  clear.  The  fight  against  cancer  is  not  a 
fight  by  the  few.  It  is  everybody's  fight.  We  are  all  involved.  We  must 
fight  with  all  the  energy  and  time  we  can  command. 
How  can  we  fight  cancer?  As  individuals  our  best  defense  is  an 
annual  health  checkup,  learning  Cancer's  Seven  Danger  Signals,  and  acting 
at  once  if  any  of  the  symptoms  should  appear.  We  can  volunteer  to 
spread  the  Society's  life-saving  information  and  help  to  prevent  needless 
suffering  and  death.  We  can  volunteer  in  the  many  other  facets  of  the 
Society's  broad  program. 
We  can  "Fight  Cancer  With  a  Checkup  and  a  Check."  The  health 
checkup  will  provide  the  earliest  possible  detection.  The  check  will  help 
hasten  the  day  when  research  finds  the  final  cause  for  cancer. 
Think  what  it  would  mean  to  you,  to  your  loved  ones,  to  all  mankind 
when  the  menace  of  cancer  is  removed  once  and  for  all! 
x/Llmond  1d/( ossoms 
Annie  AtJcin  Tanner 
Pink  as  shells  thrown  by  rebellious  waves 
On  white  and  pebbled  sands, 
Perfumed  as  spices  from  far  eastern  lands; 
Graceful  as  birds,  singing  as  they  fly. 
Then  disappear  in  a  sea-gull  speckled  sky. 
Fragile  as  blown-glass  rainbows. 
Soft  as  soothing  winds  of  May, 
Precious  as  memories  that  come 
Of  home  and  friends  of  another  day. 
Page  241