[Vol48 | April 1961 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Jensen]
He has wrought another spring, and now the locust tree will bloom again." Then one day in late winter, death stalked the small community, and Mama's firstborn son, young and handsome, was taken from her. Mama's heart was frozen, and her face wore a still and quiet look. She did not cry, but neither did she smile. She brushed aside the clumsy efforts Papa made to comfort her, and walked the days as though alone, uncaring. That spring the locust tree bloomed gloriously, but Mama did not notice. 'The children gathered handfuls of the fragrant blossoms and brought them to her, but she only stared at them in silence. All through the summer the children brought her offerings; the newest kittens, which she stroked mechanically, but did not cuddle as had been her wont. And when, in fall, they gathered armloads of the prairie goldenrod, she only turned unseeing eyes upon it. Page 242 THE LOCUST TREE SHALL BLOOM AGAIN 243 WHEN winter settled down upon the land, Mama did not read aloud to the children the Bible stories that they loved. When they asked for them, she turned a bitter look upon them, and shook her head. And it was Papa, now, who heard the prayers at night, instead of Mama. Mama's face was set and cold, her thoughts remote, withdrawn. Then spring once more cast its spell upon the land. There came an April evening of mauve and gold skies, and undulating green across the prairie floor. 'The children played beneath the tree, and Papa rested on the kitchen stoop. They all looked up in surprise as Mama stepped outside. In her hands she held the worn and much-used Bible she had brought with her as a bride. Her hands caressed it lovingly. Her eyes were red from weeping, and her face, though still, had a different look; a washed and tranquil look, just like the earth after a quick and cleansing storm. She paused and looked around her, as if she saw all for the first time after a long absence. Papa stared at her, and in his eyes a light began to glow. He reached out for her hand, and took it tenderly. She smiled at him and took a deep breath of the fresh, clean air. Then she raised her face unto the locust tree and spoke in wondering tones, "Our Father is good! He has wrought another spring, and now the locust tree will bloom again." Mountain Springtime Rowena Jensen Bills I could not wait for sun-filled days To take my mountain climb, For April spoke of greening glades And blossoming columbine. I did not pause by frozen streams, But hurried forth to high, Unsheltered, weathered, small plateaus Beneath a warming sky — And there was glorious mountain gold, Its roots buried in half-frozen soil, Erect and sturdy as a planted flower Emerging from a gardener's toil; The sego lily and yellow bell, Indian paintbrush and phlox, Growing in colorful profusion Among the timeworn rocks. 'Hath the Rain a Sather?. LaVerda Bullock White eEpATH the rain a father? Or who hath begotten the drops ot dew?" (Job 38:28) The rain has, I am sure, a father — the same father as the sunlight, the firefly, the lush vegetation of our good earth, the cool summer's breeze, and the coo of the turtle dove. Just as each of these is created by our Heavenly Father, so is the rain his creation. Perhaps this is why it has always evoked such lofty emotions in my breast. To me it is inconceivable that anyone could dislike the rain, A rainy spring morning defies description of its beauty. The birds, chirping their gratitude for worms uncovered by the moisture, define my exuberant appreciation more clearly than I am able. Just to lie in bed and listen to the gentle rhythm of rain on the roof or against the window panes is an interval to be treasured. Here is opportunity for meditation, for reflection, for evaluation of goals, for the Sélition of problems. As the life's blood of the earth descends, sleeping vegetation springs to life, giving new impetus to our half-sleeping spirits. I write as a Kentuckian who has seen the exquisite majesty of blue-grass-covered meadows, clear, nppling streams, and verdant, rolling hills — all brought about by the lovely rain. Whether it falls gently and steadily for hours, or fiercely and sporadically for moments, matters little to me. The rain has never found a way to displease such an ardent fan as I. In the summer, when the lawns are parched and the heat and humidity are so intense as to be almost unbearable, one can feel a divine blessing in the cooling, rejuvenating rain. It always brings a personal message to me from my Heavenly Father— a message of love and care and peace. These are but a few of the reasons why I like the rain. Considering just these and no others, however, is it possible that anyone can look on this manna from heaven as a necessary evil to be endured but not endeared? If such a one exists, try this experiment. Put on a raincoat, take an umbrella, and walk in a gentle summer rain. As the birds hop around in glee, and the flowers nod their thirsty heads in gratitude, can you honestly claim that neither joy nor thanksgiving abounds in your breast as well? Page 244 The Ogre on Alden Street Barbara Williams steps of 116 Alden Street, where an old cardboard sign in the window said "Piano Instruction," Randolph hesitated for just a minute, shifted Hanon and Schmitt and Bach and "Favorite Piano Selections" from under his left arm to his right, and sighed. Before every gas chamber or electric chair or gallows or whatever it was — along every "last mile" — there was probably a place where every condemned man hesitated and sighed. But if he had any fight left in him, he likely kicked his rebellion as Randolph now kicked the lowest rise of 116 Alden Street. The toes of Randolph's brown Oxfords indicated many and_hardfought rebellions, but none had waged so bitterly as the one over old Salt-and-Pepper. Nearly two years it had waged. Nearly two years ago he had first called upon Miss Lucy Pepper and learned that the tips of his fingers were birds and must sail down to hit the keys squarely. But Randolph was not one to judge unfairly or in haste. It was not until the second lesson he had decided that Miss Lucy Pepper was a female ogre whose life was dedicated to the torture of boys generally and Randolph particularly, with smiles — always smiles — and that sissy stuff about birds sailing down squarely on the tips. Yet last week there had been something heartening in Mom's, "Now, Randolph, I don't want to discuss that again until summer." Usually Mom ignored him — it was A T the foot of the iron railinged impossible to argue with someone who wouldn't argue back — but last week she had heard him and even answered when he asked for the umpty-millionth time if he couldn't pul-ease switch to Mr. Jordan. Randolph's Dad, if he were alive, would have understood about Mr. Jordan. "Why do you want to change teachers?" his Dad would have asked, the way he'd say it to a grownup, because he wanted to know the answer. "Why do you want to learn popular, anyway? Want to play for the high school dances?" His Dad had always known what he was thinking before he did, almost. Randolph kicked the step again and looked at his watch. Eleven minutes after ten. Fifteen minutes late was all he dared, but to go in only eleven minutes late was not only defeatist, but unnecessary. He sat on his music — it had been raining — and untied and then tied first his left shoelace and then his right. 'That took forty-five seconds. For another thirty he just sat. 'Then he stood up, picked up his music, and with his free hand grasped the railing and pulled himself up the first step. 'There he stopped and looked down over the railing to a scraggly gray alley cat at the side of the porch. Randolph worked up some spittle and with bomb-sight precision dropped it on the enemy. Bull's-eye! What if he could spit fire like the dragons in King Arthur! Or how would it be to spit poison? You could sure win a fight if you could spit poison! Page 245 246 "Hello, Randolph." Old Salt-andPepper was standing in the open doorway with a blue shaw! Over her shoulders. "Let's go in, shall we?" I was real dungeony inside — dark, dreary, and cold. Randolph started to remove his coat, but Miss Pepper put her hand on his shoulder. "Maybe you better leave it on. It's cold in here today." "['m not cold," said Randolph, jerking quickly to one side. She smiled. "My, you're such a big boy." Such a big boy, she said. Talking to him like a kindergartner or something. Well, he would fix her. "I'm going to junior high next fall," he said, hanging up his coat. "Tut, tut," she clucked, smiling. The old hen! She thought anyone who didn't go around with a cane still believed in Santa Claus, probably. Randolph walked to the adjustable stool and twirled it, tried it, and twirled it again. Miss Pepper was going through his music. "Why, Randolph, where's 'Playtime'?" Although the principle behind _ "Playtime" was pretty hard—transposing the piece into other keys — Randolph didn't like the kids to see him carrying that sissy book with all those dopey songs. Besides, it was a kind of active defiance against old Salt-and-Pepper to leave "Playtime" home every once in awhile.