[Vol48 | April 1961 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Fiction | Title: National]
National Library Week April 16-22 APRIL 16-22 is National Library Week. 'The purpose is to encourage a greater interest in reading, in harmony with the slogan: "For a Richer — Fuller Life — Read!' Homes, schools, and public libraries are urged to emphasize the important and far-reaching educational advantages which may be obtained through the reading and studying of well-selected books. A special appeal should be made to children who are in the habitforming stage, so that good books may become their lasting companions throughout life, that they may be better read, better informed, and thcerefore more able to become useful, participating members of their communities. At home, and wherever we go away from home, books may be taken with us, to open wide the doors of knowledge and increase our understanding of people, places, events, and the great and ennobling thoughts which have enriched the generations and may enrich our lives and times. Relief Society, particularly, by means of the literature lessons, fosters appreciation for literature, the building of home libraries, and developing in children an appreciation for the companionship and value of good books. WYlotes. TO THE FIELD Lesson Previews to Appear in the June Yssue of She Relief Society Magazine THE previews for the 1961-62 lessons will appear in the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and the lessons for October will be in the July 1961 issue. In order to obtain the June issue of the Magazine, it will be necessary for renewals and new subscriptions to reach the general offices by the first of May 1961. It is suggested that Magazine representatives check their lists immediately so that all Relief Society members will receive all of the issues containing the lessons. Ward presidents, also, should make this announcement in the April meetings. Page 240 Cancer Js &verybodys Business Wallace W. Tudor, Chairman, 1961 National Crusade N April, proclaimed by Congress as Cancer Control Month, the American Cancer Society will launch its 1961 Educational and Fund-raising Crusade. 'Two million volunteers are working in the three phases of the Society's program — Research, Education, and Service. 'These crusaders are from all walks of life — doctors, housewives, teachers, businessmen, Industrialists, Government officials, labor and religious leaders — all lending their diversified and proven abilities to the great fight against cancer. You might ask, "What concern is cancer to me?" Looking into the facts soon brings to light that cancer is an indiscriminate killer that might strike any one of us... That will, indeed, at some time strike one in four of us. This means that the staggering total of forty-five million Americans, now living, will eventually develop the disease, if the present rate continues. When we realize that there is no way of knowing whom cancer will strike, one fact becomes crystal clear. The fight against cancer is not a fight by the few. It is everybody's fight. We are all involved. We must fight with all the energy and time we can command. How can we fight cancer? As individuals our best defense is an annual health checkup, learning Cancer's Seven Danger Signals, and acting at once if any of the symptoms should appear. We can volunteer to spread the Society's life-saving information and help to prevent needless suffering and death. We can volunteer in the many other facets of the Society's broad program. We can "Fight Cancer With a Checkup and a Check." The health checkup will provide the earliest possible detection. The check will help hasten the day when research finds the final cause for cancer. Think what it would mean to you, to your loved ones, to all mankind when the menace of cancer is removed once and for all! —~- Almond Blossoms Annie Atkin Tanner Pink as shells thrown by rebellious waves On white and pebbled sands, Perfumed as spices from far eastern lands; Graceful as birds, singing as they fly, Then disappear in a sea-gull speckled sky, Fragile as blown-glass rainbows, Soft as soothing winds of May, Precious as memories that come Of home and friends of another day. Page 241 She Locust Sree Shall Bloom Again Pauline L. Jensen THE locust tree meant many things. 'To Mama it was a reminder of her childhood home in the sleepy, gentle Southern town where she had played beneath the boughs of another locust tree, which, too, had spread its protective arms above the kitchen roof. When Mama had come to the prairies as a bride, the lonely stretches of the land, bereft of friendly trees, had filled her with a poignant loneliness. Then, on one of her infrequent trips back to her old home, Mama had, on her return, brought a locust sapling. She had planted it within reach of the kitchen stoop, tended it with loving care, and it had returned that care by growing straight and strong, and lifting up its boughs as though to thwart the molten sun and bitter winds that blew across the prairies. And Mama, unaccustomed to this harsh, demanding land, felt, in the locust tree, a link between the old life and the new one. To Papa, the tree was a source of comfort, for he could sit within its shade when he returned from work and see the prairie sights and hear the prairie sounds he loved. At noon it gave him cooling shelter. At night the wind that blew unceasingly was tempered by the boughs into a gentle breeze. To the children, the tree meant a dedicated place of play. Here they had their swing and hammock, and here they built their cities in the sand, and made mud pies. And here their collie burrowed close against the house and watched them at their play. And every year a pair of robins nested in the leafy branches of the tree and fretted at the children down below. And still the locust tree had yet another meaning, a deeper one by far. For it was a harbinger of spring, both of the land and of the spirit. For with the blooming of the tree, the meadow larks were heard to sing, and fields of winter wheat began to green. And long before the blooming, Mama watched with eager eyes for signs of the tree's awakening. When it came, she would say with lilting voice, "Our Father is good.