[Vol48 | April 1961 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: Life Is | Author: Wintch]
Life Ls Fissionable Leona Fetzer Wintch A famous man recently summed up his life's efforts by saying that he had given so much away that he had only a little of himself left to die. He forgot that the bookkeeping on life's ledger shows that the more a man gives of his love and of himself, the more he has. There are no limits to which the soul can extend itself, and this boundless dominion is immeasurably increased by the very act of sharing. Hoarding is deteriorative, but giving is vital to living. Dving begins when we fail to compound fissionable mental fuel with an open, truthsecking mind, and when we withhold the bounties of our heart and spirit. Then the fundamental urges to. Know and to share become static. In the same measure that we cease to enlarge ourselves and communicate our growth, we die. What to do? Deliberately set out to better ourselves, then share, share, share! We must first recognize that our minds are often cluttered with ideas that do not pay their lodgmg. 'This is a form of the spiritual and intellectual poverty that has always exceeded physical privation, and it reminds us again that our present worldly affluence cannot satisfy our deepest needs. The almost forgotten joys that will enrich our lives are without number. <A random handful follow: Let us taste the fruit of the centuries by studying the scriptures, so that we can drink at the well of living water, feel the heartbeat of the ages, and view the limitless dimensions of life; listen to the organ's booming diapason, but play some gay spiccato, too. There is heaven all about us, so let us gather a little starlight and open our eyes to the overwhelming magnificence of Andromede's constellation, the sister to the Milky Wav; have courage not only to play with ideas, but wrestle with them and include them in our conversations so that they will not dry in our minds; best of all, let us understand our associates so that we can sense their leanings and needs. We can inspire ourselves and others out of the cubicles of mediocrity that bring death in life by increasing and intensifying our interests. How can our lives be anything but full to overflowing when we share ourselves, friends, books, interests, and vigorous ideas that fission on and on? Of a surety, the more we have and share the more vitally alive we become, and the less we consent to die. —> Follow a Star Grace Barker Wilson Oh, never say it is of no avail To follow star-lined paths where comets trail Their fiery hair. The visions and the inspirations found Within the heavens lead to higher ground When life seems bare. Oppressed when earth things overwhelm the soul, Look up! The stars' eternal rhythms roll Like answered prayer. Page 252 The Cellar Jerry Barlow ARY planted a kiss amidst M the tousled curls as she lifted two-year-old Roby into bed. Tenderly, she pulled the blanket up to his chin and tucked its warmth about his body. As she closed the bedroom door behind her, the gong of the living room clock became a persistent reminder of the approaching lunch hour. Ten — at noon Mark would be in from the fields, ravenous from the work of. The long morning houts. Mary grabbed an empty bucket from the kitchen floor and hurried to the back porch. Mark kept a supply of potatoes there so that his petite wife might be spared the chore of fetching them. He knew, too, that she was afraid. Mary stooped and thrust her arm deep inside the burlap bag. Rising, she shook the limp gunny sack, gently at first, then sharp and vigorously. Old fears revived to haunt her, and Mary resented Mark's forgetfulness for causing her this moment of fright and indecision. Daughter of a local farmer, Mary had grown up loving the multitudinous acres that surrounded her; but the potato cellars that rose like landmarks made her anxious and afraid. Once, when Mary was five, she had ventured inside one of those eerie caverns. She hadn't liked the peculiar smell of mellowing potatoes and musty earth. 'Traceries of cobwebs, some boasting ominous looking spiders, had hung everywhere, and the gloominess seemed a mockery of the feeble light that shone through the narrow door. Field mice, wary of their intruder, had darted about in aimless confusion. Even the black beetles that usually made her laugh with their impudence, looked grotesquely strange standing on their heads. And, when the sleek, evil-looking rat flicked his snake-like tail against her bare legs, she had bolted up the stairs and into the arms of her father. From that day nothing had induced her to enter a potato cellar, but now she thought of Mark. She thought of how hard he worked. Mark was a meat-and-potatoes man, and often he had said it was only her good cooking that kept him going. Hesitantly, Mary picked up the bucket, forced herself through the front gate and down the road a short distance. She was glad Jep, Roby's black puppy, was frolicking along beside her. A tremor shook her slight body as she pushed the crude latch from its metal tongs. With a_ persuasive pull, the wooden door opened. Mary stood at the top of the crudely made steps squinting to try and see far inside. Jep, spying a sea gull, scampered off across the field unhindered by Mary's desire for his company. She could see that the cellar, once filled to capacity, now sheltered only a few potatoes that lay bagged or scattered deep inside the earthen pit. Reluctantly, Mary picked up the bucket and forced her unwilling legs forward. In her haste, she forgot the rock that Mark always used Page 253 254 to prop against the door as assurance against the whims of the freakish wind. ARY tried not to hear or think as she flung potatoes into the bucket. It was half filled when a sudden swishing sound preceded an alarming bang, followed by the even more menacing clatter of the latch falling into place. 'Terrified, Mary dashed up the stairs and flung herself against the wooden door. Funously, she beat upon it and screamed out protesting her entombment. Then she sank down wearily on the top step. She sat there feeling nothing, for a time immune to the rustlings and the darkness. 'Then a scurrying, too close by, abruptly started the ghastly marathon of thought again. Deliberately, she swiveled her neck from side to side, trying to see past the frightful images conjured up by her imagination; but the minute ray of light shining from a crack beneath the door betrayed nothing. Shivering, Mary hunched her knees against her chest. Lest the accumulative fears of childhood overwhelm her, she forced herself to think outside the potato cellar. For the first time she became aware of the hum of fleeting cars that swept along the transcontinental highway. She realized that people were passing by, only a few yards away, not knowing of her predicament. Mary viewed her life in retrospect, but was brought sharply up-to-date by the joyful "Here, Yep- " Instantly she was on her feet. Roby had climbed from his crib. In her hurried fear, she had forgotten to shut the kitchen door or close RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1961 the front gate. Now she visualized the stretch of highway that bordered their farm, all of it straight except for the dip that rose from its sway directly in front of the potato cellar. Here a tiny boy might not be seen in time. Renewed panic, different and more terrible, engulfed her. Frantically she hammered at the unyielding door and kicked at its opposing force. Through the wooden. Structure, she pleaded and threatened in her endeavor to keep her baby within the bounds of safety. "Roby, come over to the door and talk to mama." "Mama," he repeated. "Let's play a game," Mary coaxed. "Ill knock on the door like this, and then you knock back." Roby laughed as he imitated his mother, and they talked and knocked back and forth. Then the inquisitive sniffing of Jep told Mary that the puppy had joined them. Roby and the dog romped happily and tumbled over one another in gleeful abandon. 'The frisky puppy darted back and forth, each time luring Roby farther away. "Roby," Mary screamed. "Roby, come back here." In desperation she began to claw at the dirt walls seeking some way of escape. 'The firm ground yielded only slightly, but Mary dug on, oblivious to the pain of her bleeding hands. HE blare of a horn and the whine of tires preceded the crash. Excited voices grew to a clamor as more cars braked to a stop. Above the din, a man's voice rose, angry and shaken. '""What's he doing in the middle of the road anyway?" THE CELLAR "Someone had better get his mother," a woman cried. The cellar tilted at a crazy angle as Mary slumped helplessly against the wall. Her knees buckled and her head hit the edge of the bucket as she fell. Slowly Mary began her struggle back. Mark was sitting beside their bed and, occasionally, leaned forward to soothe away her desultory cries. Jep's persistent whining at the cellar door had led to her discovery. Mark felt a tug of sympathy as his eyes centered on the sterile bandages that covered Mary's head and hands. Beneath the warmth of the woolen blankets, Mary stirred, then jerked upright. 'Roby,' — she screamed, "get out of the road." A hand pushed her back against the pillows and a voice, oddly familiar, kept trying to tell her something. Now she recognized Dr. Nuncie, and he was saying something about an accident. Accident! The word jarred Mary back to reality and she became acutely aware of Mark. She flung herself at him sobbing hysterically. "Oh, Mark, it's my fault'"" — mumbled words fell against Mark's chest and he gently cradled her head in his hand. "Roby's all right, sweetheart." "No — he's not, Mark. I heard the crash and the people talking." "I know, dear, but Roby wasn't 255 hit. A tourist hit a fence post. He saw Roby in the road and swerved to miss him. He was shaken up a bit, but nothing serious." Mary, incredulous, raised her tearstained face from Mark's shoulder, as he gently lowered her back to the bed. It was a miracle — only Mary could not believe it and she protested its untruth. A nod from Dr. Nuncie soon produced their neighbor holding a squirming youngster in her arms. Spying his mother, Roby wriggled free and hoisted himself onto the bed. Fierce relief made Mary unconsciously rough as she hugged him to her. Roby giggled, urging his mother to repeat the violent caress. Mary obliged, luxuriating in the boy's delight. The pain of her head and hands had eased, and she gave up Roby reluctantly. Dr. Nuncie took his departure, leaving Mark alone beside the bed. Sleepily, Mary opened her eyes and managed a loving smile. "Tomorrow I'll take Roby with me when I go to the potato cellar." "Tomorrow," Mark gave notice, "you'll stay in bed. I'll get the potatoes." Then the corners of his mouth curled impishly and his eyes sparkled in the way that Mary loved. "Gee, honey," he laughed, "IT couldn't take another day like this one."