[Vol48 | April 1961 | Sequence: 11 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Parker]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities, Hulda Parker,]
FROM    THE    FIELD 
General  Secretary-Treasurer  HuJda  Parker 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  governing  the  submittal  of 
material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  January  1958,  page  47,  and 
in  the  Relief  Society  Handbook:  of  Instructions. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph  submitted  by  Hazel  M.  Brinson 
INDIANAPOLIS   STAKE    (INDIANA)    VISITING  TEACHERS   CONVENTION 
August  3,  i960 
Front  row,  at  the  left,  left  to  right:  Marguerite  O'Niones,  work  meeting  leader; 
Lena  Morton,  First  Counselor;  Hazel  M.  Brinson,  President;  Beverly  MeAdam,  Second 
Counselor. 
Front  row,  at  the  right,  left  to  right:  Anne  Kreitzer,  acting  chorister;  Bethea  Dale, 
acting  organist;  C.  Lowell  Iledrick  of  the  High  Council,  representing  the  stake  presi- 
dency. 
Second  row,  at  the  left:  Barbara  Jordan,  literature  class  leader;  at  the  right:  Be\erly 
Ferguson,  theology  class  leader. 
Sister  Brinson  reports  that  their  first  Visiting  Teacher  Convention  was  a  great 
success.  A  well-planned  and  supervised  nursery  was  conducted  bv  Shirley  Goodman 
and  Katherine  Barney  during  the  convention.  The  film  "Unto  the  Least  of  'I'hese" 
was  shown  twice  between  the  opening  session  of  the  convention  and  the  luncheon,  and 
women  attending  the  convention  were  divided  into  two  groups  by  birthday  months  for 
the  showing  of  the  film.  While  the  film  was  in  progress,  the  alternating  group  inspect- 
ed the  display  tables  and  saw  the  demonstrations  given  there.  A  demonstration  on 
home  freezing  was  gi\en  bv  Mrs.  Vander  Griff,  county  home  demonstration  agent,  and 
a  fashion  show  was  presented  b\-  the  Connersville  Branch  Relief  Society.  The  delight- 
ful luncheon  was  planned  and  prepared  by  the  Indianapolis  Second  Ward  sisters  and 
was  served  by  the  stake  Relief  Society  board. 
Page  267