SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 17th 1876.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I have just been reading a piece entitled
"Affectation" in your most excellent and
instructive paper, which set me to thinking
and I felt I must commit some of my
thoughts to paper and send them to you.
	I do so enjoy your paper, and my only
regret is that I have not before appreciated
and taken it. I think every Latter-day
Saint should take the EXPONENT; it should
be read and studied more, instead of the
trashy papers which come from the outside


world. I have many times been asked by
Gentiles whom I have met, about my relig-
ion, and when they have brought up argu-
ments against our belief and practices, I
have not been able to refute them. But I
am now beginning to realize how necessary
it is, that our young people—young girls as
well as young men, for, if we are not called
upon to go on missions to foreign lands, we
have many opportunities for vindicating
the tenets of our church—how necessary it
is, I say, that we should study the principles
and doctrines in which we believe, and in-
stead of being so anxious to read the last
new novel, we should be enriching our
minds, and storing up useful knowledge for
the future time when we are called upon to
take the places of our older sisters who are
now at the head of our societies. And be-
sides we who are, and those who will some
time be the mothers of sons; can we teach
them aright; Can we instill good princi-
ples into their young minds; and bring
them up in such a manner that they will be
able to take their part in helping to bear off
the kingdom, when those who are now at
the head shall have passed behind the vail?
I am but a young mother, but I often think
that if I do not exert every nerve, and
watch and pray always, I cannot fulfill my
part, and when my children are grown, if
they are not worthy, there will be no place
for them in the Church of our Lord, and
they will look back to their childish days
and blame me, their mother, for not im-
planting the Gospel truths into their youth-
ful minds. Therefore, let us young sisters
quit all this light reading and attend our
meetings, where we will receive good in-
structions; let us improve every opportuni-
ty, read and study our Church Books, and
prepare ourselves to be worthy mothers to
the great and noble spirits, who are to come
forth in this last day and generation.
