COOK'S SCHOOL EXHIBITION, Feb. 26th '76.

	Any one who observes carefully the out-
ward impressions, which act upon individ-
uals, cannot but be aware of the marked in-
fluence which natural scenery exerts in
forming characteristics, and distinguishing
traits of individual nature. The stupendous
mountains, the beautiful landscape, the
charming lakes, and smooth wide spread-
ing plains all make their instinctive im-
pressions upon the mind, and direct the
thoughts through certain intricate channels,
of a nature and bearing assimilating to the
peculiar phase of life with which they
come in contact.
	Who that has ever looked upon the grand-
eur and sublimity of Niagara, stood in si-
lence and awe, and watched the foaming
waters as they flow ruthlessly over the aw-
ful precipice; the roaring and thundering of
the rapids, their green and purple waves
tumbling and whirling into frothy white,
could ever forget the impressions made at
the moment, and stamped irrevocably up-
on the mind.
	A season spent 'mid the romantic haunts
of nature upon the banks of the Hudson,
with its enchanting scenery, its beautiful
and artistic villas; or on the banks of the
world renowned Rhine, with its picturesque
cottages, interspersed with ancient ruins of
fortresses and castles, is not only an advan-
tage for the time, but the thoughts which
it originates, when recalled, purify and ele-
vate the mind and intuitively impress one's
life with lasting good.
	The simple Swiss peasant dwelling among
the snow-capped mountains, is, seemingly,
brought nearer to his God, by assimilation
to the heights by which he is surrounded.
The rugged life he leads, by contrast makes
the peace he enjoys so much the more pow-
erful, as the coming home at sunset, which
is the more appreciated, because of the
weary traveling required to reach it.
	Italy the land of poetry and song, with
its azure skies, its calm and placid lakes, its
famous and celebrated cities and villages,

[Column 2]
with their crumbling and tottering towers,
palaces and amphitheatres, gave to the
world a Raphael whose genius will live for-
ever, whose memory is immortal, whose
fame is imperishable.
	Germany, with its grandeur and magnifi-
cence of scenery, its beautiful winding riv-
ers upon whose banks many classical le-
gends originated, fostered and reared a
Humboldt who has made the world his
debtor by his discoveries, his explorations
and his scientific knowledge.
	Scotland whose wild and picturesque
scenery is celebrated in history and poetry,
gave to us a Burns, who possessed genius
peculiarly characteristic of his surroundings;
almost destitute of culture, living in a clay-
built hut, his mind conversant only with
the weird and fanciful imageries of Nature,
associated with its beautiful realities, he
blended his poems in unison with that of
his country, and through this channel to the
hearts of her people.
	Tennyson living at Somersby with its
quiet beauty seems to have been differently
affected for he often wrote in a weird and
imaginative strain, as his "Dying Swan"
and "Claribel," which are based upon shad-
ow; but, withal, he also has the power to
delineate real every day life which we see
in the "May Queen" and "Millers Daugh-
ter."
	In many of the poems of Elizabeth Brown-
ing we perceive the influence of English
life, under which she won her laurels; but
in beautiful Florence, under the soft azure
skies of classic Italy, were many of her best
productions drawn out; the land of genius
and inspiration, which ever seems to be-
stow additional honors upon those who have
already merited some.
	Willis on the banks of the Hudson;—is it
any wonder that he could pour forth such
sweet and touching words, living 'mid the
associations of "Idle Wild?" There he
could withdraw, and resting in the shadow
of a deep ravine, environed with trees
through whose clustering leaves the golden
sunshine shimmered like angel messengers
of light, breathing to him thoughts of beau-
ty, which he clothed in words to communi-
cate to us.
	Far famed Greece! Who shall say that
the grandeur and magnificence of her scen-
ery, the invigorating and bracing air of her
mountains, under whose shadow were reared
the world renowned warriors of history,
had no influence on the character of those
to whom she gave birth? Or that the beau-
tiful daughter of the sea, had no more
power to produce great men than the desert
wilds of Africa?
	Education and culture combined and har-
monizing with the scenery of nature pro-
duce still more powerful influences; and in
our enlightened country, every person has
at least the opportunity of so far improving,
as to be able to view nature through "Eyes
of Wisdom."
							A PUPIL.
[handwritten] Annie Wells


