	UTAH AND WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	We have often heard the remark recently
that women thought they were going to revo-
lutionize society. Is there not an imperative
need of some powerful revolutionizing ele-
ment to renovate modern society? Who has
the audacity to say no? Every day there are
sickening reports of wickedness in high places,
of dishonest business transactions, of corrupt
practices. The prevailing fashions and cus-
toms of society among those who hold lofty
positions, and their individual anxiety for os-
tentatious display is calculated to engender
dishonesty and vice. They must live in a cer-
tain style, must appear abroad in suitable ap-
pointments, their wine, cigars, horses etc.
must be in accordance with their position, and
if their income is meagre, either the national
treasury must suffer or other dishonest means
or practices be resorted to. Can this last al-
ways? Will there not come a financial as well
as political crisis, unless some great revolution
transpires? If honest men possessing brains
and a moderate education are willing to be
governed by those destitute of honor and integ-
rity, it would seem women are not. Women
in the past, were not allowed to have any voice
in matters pertaining to the general welfare;
therefore they allowed men not only to make
their laws but to do their thinking for them.
But thanks to a broader education of heart and
brain, to a few brave women and some liberal-
minded men; one great radical change has been
affected in this respect, and intelligent educa-
ted women claim the God-given privilege of
doing their own thinking. If there are wo-
men who shrink from coming forward and
claiming the right of citizenship, it is only the
fault of long-continued custom and the inher-
ited prejudices imbibed from their ancestors,
and with which some are so thoroughly im-
bued that it will take time to eradicate it.
Could they become convinced of the great
good possible to be attained by universal Wo-
man's Suffrage, how gladly would they come
to the rescue. Many of the terrible evils
that now pervade society would be moderated
to a wonderful degree, if women could assist
in making and enforcing the laws. Men
guilty of heinous crimes against moral de-
cency would not walk boldly forth among the
pure and virtuous, if women were allowed a
voice in their judgment. They too would
share in the ignominy and disgrace of their
victims. Their sins would find them out.
	Would there have been such a disgraceful of-
fense against order and good behavior at the
Republican convention in this city last week
if women had formed part of that body? Em-
phatically no! They could not have defied
the laws of good breeding as they did, had

[Column 2]
there been as there should be at all conventions
for the public weal, ladies present.
	What do those men who sat in that august
assembly know of the wants of the people of
Utah? How are they representatives of the
people? What do they know of the rights or
wrongs of this community? How long have
they been here, and for what object did they
come? To regenerate the people of Utah? So
report says. "God save the mark!" Regenera-
tors who cannot even treat each other with
common courtesy in a public convention!
	The conventions of women differ entirely in
tone and character from this.
	We should like to ask some of these "honora-
ble gentlemen" what they know about the set-
tlement of this Territory. If they would like
to settle a desert, and then be invaded by dis-
interested persons, who would usurp their
rights, seek to destroy the institutions they
had sought for years, with time and capital, to
establish, endured privations, toil and untold
sufferings, to found a system by which they
and their children might be benefitted, and
their condition improved.
	There are women in Utah before whose elo-
quence these would-be delegates would stand
appalled were they to tell them of their suffer-
ings when driven into the wilderness. And
now they would rob them of their dearly
bought freedom, political, social, and religious
right. Let such men beware. They cannot
do it with impunity. There is another side to
this question, and there are women who know
how to defend it. "Vengeance is mine, saith
the Lord, and I will repay."
	And here we would suggest that many thanks
are due from the women of this Territory to
those brave and valiant ladies who so faithful-
ly plead the cause of Woman Suffrage for Utah,
in the halls of the National Capitol.
	We know whereof we speak. We came to
this country when it was a barren wilderness;
having the terrors of the desert, the Indians,
buffaloes, and wolves to encounter. Shame
on the men who would seek to deprive a people
of the rights they have so dearly bought. The
subject is exhaustless.
	Even supposing the people held erroneous
religious views, they are entitled to the privil-
ege of citizenship by every right of humanity.
	We have no hesitation in saying there is a
future for Utah and her people of which this
nation will yet be proud.


