	BY HER SISTER MRS. L. M. G. HEWLINGS.

I was going to write thee a letter my dear,
	All in poetic verse or in rhyme,
I had seated myself, and had taken my pen,
	And just written—"My Dear Emmeline,"
When a knock at the door called me down from my room,
	And scattered my thoughts far away:
So whether I shall finish the letter or not,
	Would puzzle me greatly to say.

I am turning the leaves of the days o'er and o'er,
	Thus the years of the past I can trace.
I am standing again, at the wide open door,
	Where I first saw your sweet infant face.
Fond mem'ry has thrown back her gates wide ajar—
	Bid me enter her silent domain.
I have wandered along 'neath hope's brilliant star,
	To the "Gardens of Childhood" again.

The dear home-faces greet me, soft hands clasp with mine,
	Bright eyes are brimming over with glee,
There is freshness and beauty on blossom and vine,
	And sweet song-birds in every green tree;
There is chanting and laughter, and frolic and fun,
	Ringing out on the breezes to-night,
The day's lessons are over, and tasks they are done.
	Was there ever a lovelier sight?

The pastime is over, we are kneeling to pray:
	Kisses are given, good nights are said.
"O, our Father in Heaven," some lispingly say,
	"Watch, while we slumber, over our bed!"
Fair, beautiful pictures, I have gathered to-night,
	Roaming through memory's gilded hall.
I have one I will send thee, so dazzlingly bright,
	It must answer, dear sister, for all.

In a warm, cheerful room, on a mild winter's day,
	There's a table spread out for a feast,
And viands thereon in such tempting array,
	Nought seems lacking the fancy to please,
The guests are all gathered: see, they march round in file
	They're saluting the Queen of the feast—
At the head of the board, a bright, beautiful child,
	Enthroned upon her cushion-like seat.

Grandpa, with white flowing hair, to baby Celeste,
	I see through the years, two score and four,
Dear parents, happy children, and "merry Aunt Bess,"
	Look the same as on that day of yore:
Only one fair face wanting to make it unique.
	Were it not for that one "vacant chair"
The circle were unbroken—the picture complete:
	But to me it seems wondrously fair.

Of the numberless blessings, kind wishes expressed,
	To bring happy returns of this day,
O, my sweet "Rosabell,"* it were needless to tell,
	But the picture is fresh as the May.
Dear sister, the letter I intended to write,
	I will finish on some future day,
But the picture accept, with a loving "good night,"
	As a gift for thy coming birth-day.

