HOME AFFAIRS.

	SEVERAL VALUABLE communications are
laid over until next issue for want of space,
also items of home affairs worthy of note.

	DIED IN the 20th Ward of Salt Lake City,
of disease of the heart and dropsy, Petrea Elis-
ebeth Mattea Madsen Leonard. Born in Den-
mark March 14th 1820. Baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
—1854. Emigrated to Utah in 1855—Mar-
ried to Bradford Leonard Feb. 1858, died in
Salt Lake City on the 16th of Feb. 1876.
	Deceased leaves a daughter, brother and sis-
ter to mourn her loss, but they rejoice that she
endured faithful through her many trials in
life, and died in hope of a glorious resurrec-
tion.

	DIED AT Pine Canyon Tooele Co.,. January
23rd 1875, of inflammation of the stomach Mar-
tha S. Smith, daughter of Moses and Isabella
Martin and wife of Adam G. Smith. Deceased
was born in Alton, Madison Co., Illinois, Aug.
20, 1852. She was a kind mother, a loving sister;
an affectionate daughter, and an amiable wife.


She leaves a husband and one child; she was
one of the first in the ward to go and be re-
baptized, and was a faithful member of the
Retrenchment Society and filled the office of
Treasurer. Her last words, after she had call-
ed her husband, father and mother, brothers
and sisters together and kissed them, were for
them not to grieve for she was going just a 
little before them; she then asked for her little
boy, kissed him and breathed her last, just as
if she had been going to sleep.

	WE INVITE the attention of our readers to
the new advertisement of our artist friend C.
R. Savage. His new gallery is without doubt
the finest in the Rocky Mountain region—
(It is an institution springing from his
own individual energy, employing in all
seven persons besides himself, four gentle-
men and three lladies. The details of photo-
graphy have no stronger devotees than the
attachees of his establishment; some are busy
printing the photographs by the solar ray, oth-
ers are deftly putting on the finishing touches.)
His views are scattered all over the globe, and
are highly spoken of as artistic productions.
In looking at a large show case on the ground
floor, we thought they were excellent; the ton-
ing, lighting and posing compare very favora-
bly with the best imported specimens. In fact,
they are hard to beat. In connection with, and
forming a part of the business, is the manufac-
ture of picture frames, presided over by Os-
borne Angell. Piles of molding in all styles,
await his saw and plane. The operating room
has for its presiding genius N. Howarth, Esq.,
patience must be observed by a photogroph
operator, and in this he excells. The waiting
room is in charge of Miss Lis[-]dor Williams.
In fact everything has been done to render thegallery first-class in all its appointments. Mr.
S. assures us that new attractions will be added
as fast as possible. We are proud to point to
the fact that in the matter of art, Utah is not
behind any of the Territories. Our citizens
cannot do better than visit the gallery and see
if our conclusions are not well founded. We
wish him, and all others who seek to improve,
abu[--]dant success.


