			PERSEVERANCE.

	Perseverance is a subject of vital import-
ance to every thinking mind, there is noth-
ing in fact, could be accomplished success-
fully without it. No mercantile business
could succeed without this principle and ex-
actness.
	The lad who is apprenticed to learn a
useful trade would fail without it, but if he
perseveres and accomplishes the purpose his
parents or guardians have desired, and he
becomes complete master of his trade or
profession his energy and perseverance urg-
es him onward and he aims to excel in
whatever he does. The student who wish-
es to acquire a knowledge of any study or
to learn foreign languages so that he may
speak with fluency, or write them correctly,
must exercise his faculties or fail to accom-
plish that which he desires. It gives a force
and energy to every action of our lives
whether for good or evil.
	Without this great principle our beloved
Prophet Joseph Smith would have failed to
accomplish his mission in bringing forth the
record of the ancient inhabitants of this
continent, and establishing the Kingdom of
God upon the earth, but he persevered even
unto death, and succeeded in accomplishing
the work he was destined to perform.
	Were it not for this great and grand at-
tribute the apostles would have failed to
plant the principles of truth, and open the
door of the Kingdom of God in our own
native land and in the different nations of
the earth, but they persevered with all their
might, mind and strength, both by day and
by night to accomplish the work the Lord
required at their hands, and therefore they
succeeded; and we are this day witnesses to
this great fact, as also are thousands now


rejoicing in the light of the gospel and the
blessings of the Holy Priesthood.
	Through perseverance the pioneers of this
country overcame every difficulty, subdued
the sterility of the country and the Lord
has smiled upon His people, and crowned
the persevering labors of His servants with
success, in causing the earth to bring forth
in rich abundance, and thus are we sustain-
ed.
	Without perseverance we cannot make
our Centennial Territorial Fair a success;
and it should be our earnest desire, in fact
it is a duty incumbent on each of us to take
a lively interest in assisting to produce
something that will add to its advancement;
we are all endowed with talents that with-
out perseverance would lay dormant.
	Without this faculty, and the spirit of
energy we can never attain celestial glory
and exaltation, for the Scriptures tell us that
they who overcome will inherit these bless-
ings; and if we persevere every day of our
lives to overcome our sins and follies, temp-
tations and weaknesses, then we may ulti-
mately be found worthy through the grace
of God, having become sanctified and puri-
fied through obedience to the Gospel of our
Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and become
heirs of salvation through perseverance and
endurance.
					E. J. MATHEWS.
	20th Ward, S. L. City.


