			GENERAL.

	A Ladies' Debating Club has been started
in London......The London University has
resolved in favor of conferring degrees up-
on women......The Sultan of Turkey is build-
ing a mosque, to cost when finished $10,000
......New Jersey has voted $120,000 in all to
the Centennial......Brown paper blankets
are now manufactured extensively in Eng-
land, and used on the beds of the poor......
A paragraph history of the American Rev-
olution will be a Centennial publication by
Robert Brothers of Boston......The second
session of the Congress of Orientalists at
Marseilles will take place from the 4th to
the 10th of Oct. next under the presidency
of M. I. Abbi F. Tonongi......Gladstone and
the Duke Argyle, each have articles in the
March number of the Cotemporary Review.
...50,000 soldiers will go to Cuba to quell the
insurrection.........Russia has incorporated
Khokand among her possessions, General
Scoreloff has been appointed Governor of
the new province, it is named Ferghan......
Accounts of the devastation from the inun-
dations in Hungary are terrible; 12,000 out
of 18,000 inhabitants of Althorer are home-
less......The Cincinnatti Carnival, or Mardi-
Gras Festival, proved a complete success; it
is said to have been finer than any display
in the South.
			PERSONAL.
	Augusta Evans is said to have received
from Carleton the publisher $100,000 in 8
years......Feb. 22nd was the 144th anniver-
sary of the birth of Washington......Lord
Stratford de Radcliffe, 88 years old, has just
written a play called "Alfred the Great at
Athelney"......Madame Neilson is going
the round of Europe; her tour including
Holland, Germany and France; it is said
her voice is declining in beauty and power. 
......Queen Victoria recently sent twenty
brace of pheasants to King's College Hos-
pital and a similar present to other hospitals
......Mme. Rosa Caillag, once a famous con-
tralto singer, has lately been made professor
in the Conservatory of Music at Vienna......
Edward King's sketches of French political
leaders will be published immediately by
Putnam and Sons in their "Brief Biogra-
phies"......C. A. Freeman's "History of the


Norman Conquest" is now about to be pub-
lished......Mrs. Charles Kingsley will soon
publish a memoir of her husband, with
large selections from his correspondence.


