EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few lines from Grantsville
would not be amiss, I will try and say a few
words about the Grantsville Relief Society.
We meet twice a month, once in the capacity
of a business or testimony meeting, and once
for sewing when we quilt or sew for the
poor. There are not a great many poor peo-
ple here, but what there is, we assist and
make comfortable as far as we can. In Jan-
uary last, our President, Mrs. Hunter, pro-
posed giving them a good dinner, when the
members of the society responded to the
call, and the poor were blessed with some of
the good things of this life, while those who
had supplied the food were blessed in the
satisfaction of having done a good deed in
ministering to the needy. Our testimony
meetings have been more largely attended
of late, and sometimes one or more of the
brethren meet with us, give us good
counsel and encouragement, and sometimes
assist us with means; and though it is
something new for us to speak in public,
yet we feel to do so in our meetings to the
best of our ability, for we know that by so do-
ing we are not only benefitting those who
hear us, but feel strengthened ourselves;
for it learns us to lean on our Heavenly
Father for help. In arising to speak we
feel our own weakness, and it brings humil-
ity. I know the Lord does bless us in our
meetings and pours out His spirit upon us.
We counsel and advise each other in our
duties to our fellow beings, and the great
work that is before us. Our President Mrs.
M. A. Hunter is certainly the right wo-
man in the right place; and is persevering
in doing good; she is ever ready with assist-
ance and good counsel to bless the needy.
I believe she has the confidence and good
feelings of the people here, and inasmuch
as we carry out the counsel she gives us, I
am sure this Society will prosper.
	Our enemies are very fond of talking of
the women of Utah as being a poor down-
trodden set of women, but I think were
they to visit Utah with an unprejudiced
mind they would alter their opinions.
They would see that the women of Utah
are counseled to improve their minds, study
good books, teach their children the prin-
ciples of salvation, to be industrious, truth-
ful and honest, and serve God with all their
hearts.
	The members of the Retrenchment Asso
ciation are all going to school now, as we
have an excellent teacher from Salt Lake
City to instruct them; and as their time is
so fully occupied, it has been decided to
postpone their meetings till early Spring
when school will be over.
	Praying God to bless and aid you in your
labors, I remain your Sister in the Gospel,
