	TOR CHRISTLANCY'S BILL FOR UTAH.

	If I were a favored daughter of President
Grant's (and had my experience) I would
prepare for him a savory dinner, and after-
wards a glass of the best wine, and a fine
cigar, and when his soul was refreshed, I
would tell him of Utah; the goodly length
of its territory, variety of its climate, its

[Column 2]
rich mineral resources, and so forth; the why
we came, and how, and what we found
here; the toils of husbands and mothers to
raise large families, that now people this
once desert land. It would be no trouble
to find six men who have one hundred
children all honorable, not a defect in one of
them. I would say, think, dear Father,
would it be possible for the fathers and
mothers under the broad folds of our Re-
publican Government, to say to all these
and the thousands more, you are all out-
casts. All these sons have been taught that
our constitution was framed by men inspir-
ed of God; and these fair daughters of the
mountains, that virtue was preferable to
life without it. Would not many wish
they had a Virginius for a father-if-and if?
	I would say, dear Father, can our lawgiv-
ers at the great Capitol sanction the blotting
out of a system of religion that teaches
men and women how to live pure lives and
avoid the wickedness and excesses which
are so prevalent in the world.
	Think of two thousand and more betray-
ed females in the city of New York, and
other large cities. Who looks after their
forlorn situation? Who devises means for
their protection that they may return to the
paths of virtue?
	The whole law of God hangs on the word,
"Love God with all thy heart, and thy
neighbor as thyself." Who is seeking to
live up to this higher law; who comes as
near to it as the ladies of Utah?
	How little did I think to live to see what
I have of the injustice done to an innocent
people; when a child I used to sit on my
grandfather's knee (he was a pensioner for
many years) and hear him tell of his hard
fought battles under Washington, the vic-
tories so dearly won, and what he had en-
dured. His father was one of the signers
of the Declaration of Independence.
	I would say, dear father, do you think a
polygamous grandmother can sit thought-
lessly, and read Senator Christaincy's bill,
now before Congress, to disfranchise those
sons and daughters who have been taught
to honor their country and believe in relig-
ious toleration through which they owe
their legalized rights to citizenship? Dear
father, I would like to tell you all about
the happy homes in these mountain valleys;
there were no houses of ill-fame, no ghastly
forms of excesses in the streets of Salt Lake,
not a female convict in Utah's prison, un-
til within a short time.
	How often we see a wife pale and feeble,
a hale hearty husband, and not a child to
bless their home, her days spent in loving
deeds to others. Why may she not share her
home with another? Merry children break
the silence, and the wife's heart entwines
itself around them as tenderly as if they
were her own; their mother an honored
wife. And who is robbed? None. But
another womans heart is made glad with
tender motherly feeling, and she partici-
pates in the love and affection which God
has given to his daughters as their privi-
lege and right.
	What is hoarded wealth compared to
home enjoyments? Nothing. Men should
be protectors of virtue, but alas! Father,
they make it a trophy of victory, the dis-
honor of my fair sisters the world over.

[Column 3]
Where is my sisters resort for redress?
Where the cover for their shame, but their
hopes of an early grave? Our noble sires
look calmly on the sinking thousands of the
fair daughters of America, and make no ef-
fort to redeem the land from the terrible
curse of prostitution. It cannot be possi-
ble they will license it.
	In Utah, dear father, mothers are con-
tent to raise noble sons and da[-]ghters, they
have no desire to destroy life transmitted
to offspring.
	And, dear father, if it would not be out
of place I would like to whisper to our no-
ble lawgivers, (not forgetting you my dear
father) would it not be good economy to
hold a place of kind and warm-hearted af-
fection in the hearts of a hundred thousand
brave mountain boys, with strong hands,
clear minds and pure blood, in case of a
foreign invasion. Rome fell, Babylon is
not, and who knows what may transpire.
	We have done like our legislature here
this winter, we came here and cost the
country nothing, and sustained ourselves,
to open the way for the telegraph poles, and
iron rails to reach from ocean to ocean.
What would it have cost this nation to have
subdued the sterility of the soil, and fed
the Indians? But we care not for the tons of
flour and beef, though we still mourn for
the many that have fallen by the Indians
treacherous hands going through these
canyons for wood, building mills etc. And
now the government would forbid us tim-
ber, take from us every office of trust, and
want to refuse us a voice in the choosing of
our rulers. I would suggest what a noble
act it would be, for this glorious Republic
to hand down to unborn generations if they
would give to every pioneer that came to
this desolate country a handsome present
of land, that ingrtatitude may not be at-
tached to the men of power in this nation.
	Could the people of this territory be
truly understood there would be nothing but
kind feelings towards them, as a people, in
Washington. As true daughters of Ameri-
ca we cherish naught but kindness to all
good and worthy objects, and ask the pro-
tection of this government for ourselves,
husbands, and children. In no other coun-
try are females so truly respected, and vir-
tue so carefully guarded as in Utah.
	I would add, dear father, I hope you are
not so weary with me, but that we might
have another profitable chat at some future
time, for there is much that has not yet
been told concerning this peculiar people
and their institutions.
			DIANTHA BAKER.
Salt Lake City, March 4th, 1874.


PEOPLE are proud to condemn in others
what they practise in themselves without
scruple, Plutarch tells of a wolf, who, peep-
ing into a hut where a couple of shepherds
were regaling themselves with a joint of
mutton exclaimed, "what a clamor they
would have raised if they had caught me
at such a banquet!"


BE what you are; this is the first step to-
ward becoming better than you are.—J. C.
Hare.


