	THE MODEL MAID-OF-ALL-WORK.—Her
age is fourteen. Her arms are bare and her
feet slip-shod. Her curls are rarely out of
paper. She sports a clean apron on the Sun-
day, about tea-time. It is a mystery where
she sleeps; some say the kitchen, in one of
the large drawers; and others declare she
has a turn-up bed in the hall clock; but it is
not known for positive whether she goes to
bed at all. She has a wonderful affection
for the cat. Everything that is missed, or
lost, or broken, or not eaten, she gives un-
hesitatingly to him. She is not fond of the
drawing-room, but has a good natured par-
tiality for the garret, who sings funny
songs, and gives her occasionally an order
for the play. She takes her dinner whilst
washing the dishes, and never gets her
breakfast till all the floors are done with the
one tea pot. She tries very hard to answer
five bells at once, and in despair answers
none. She always forgets the mustard, and
prefers blowing the fire with her mouth in-
stead of the bellows. Her hands will not bear
minute inspection; and no wonder, for she
is cleaning boots, or washing, or cooking
dinners all the day long. She carries coals
in a dust-pan, hands bread on a fork, and
wipes plates on her apron. She is abused
by everybody, and never gets a holiday.
She only knows it is Sunday by the lodgers.
stopping in bed later than usual, and hav-
ing twice as many dinners to cook. She is
never allowed to go out, excepting to fetch
beer and tobacco. She hears complaints
without a murmur, and listens to jokes with-
out a smile. She gets six pounds a year, 
and is expected to wait on about twenty
persons, to do the work of five servants, to
love all the children in the house, and to be
honest for the money.


APPELLES.—Alexander went to see his
portrait at Ephesus, painted by Apelles;
but did not commend the piece as it deserv-
ed. A horse was introduced, and neighed
to the horse in the picture as if it were a
living one. "My Prince," said Apelles,
"the horse seems to be a better connoisseur
than yourself."

