TENNYSON'S SUMMER HOME.

	I sat upon a projecting rock on the Isle of
Tintagel, hundreds of feet above the sea,
which was rolling in upon the beach below
with wayward indolence. Close by rose the
tall cliffs of the Cornish coast, with their 
rock-ribbed sides.
	The ruins of the castle, with its decayed
and tottering stones, raise again, in imagin-
tion, in all of its barbaric splendor; tower
and battlements glistened with the spears
of armed men; the rattling of arms and 
tramp of steeds were heard coming down
the ravine—a goodly company of brave
knights and fair ladies—at their head, he,
Authur, their king, and riding by his side,
on her snow white palfrey, the sweet but
faithless Guinevere, and behind them, fore-
most among the train, Lancelot. With
merry laughter and many a courtly jest,
they passed over the bridge (which now the
waves of the Atlantic have swept away,
leaving but a few rough stones) into the
castle.
	My day dream was suddenly interrupted
by discovering a stranger near me.
	I arose from my seat and approached him.
It was one of those wild solitudes, far away
from any human habitation, where you
would always forget the formalities of life,
and address any stranger you might hap-
pen to meet. Before I reached him, I
knew, although I had never looked upon
his face before, that I stood in the presence
of the great magician who had peopled the
ruins and the solitude around me with
bright visions.
	It was the poet Tennyson; the face and
figure that I had so often seen pictured
could not be mistaken. Like most men of
mark he had a striking appearance, and
wherever you met him, you would at once
set him down as a man of no ordinary char-
acter; tall, but looking taller than he really
was on account of his spare frame; a sallow
complexion, with keen dark eyes and shag-
gy eyebrows, unshaven, with a long beard
and mustache turning iron gray, and long
hair of the same color falling to his shoul-
ders, he had generally an unkempt appear-
ance; his dress did not appear to have been
made by a fashionable tailor, and it looked
as if some years had elapsed since it was
first worn; in his mouth he had a short
black pipe, which he was smoking. Not
the kind of man the reader would imagine
wrote "Come into the Garden, Maud."
	I first accosted him, saying:—
	"I believe I have the honor of speaking
to Mr. Tennyson?"
	In reply he stiffly bowed his head, some-
what surlily, I thought.
	I told him who I was, and that I had come
to Tintagel to look upon the scenes he had
made so familiar to readers of English liter-
ature. He commenced asking me ques-
tions, mostly concerning the United States,
its literature, and the English authors that
were mostly read there. He expressed a
great admiration for Longfellow, whom he
knew personally. He then pointed out var-
ious objects of interest that had escaped my
notice among the ruins of the castle, on the
island and the shore, among others King
Arthur's drinking cup, a huge piece of rock
hollowed out into the shape of a bowl, and
large enough to hold the contents of a bar-
rel; and a small chapel, the foundation of
which can be traced, and in which the alter
stone, a solid piece of hewn rock, still re-
mains perfect.
	The island is but a few hundred yards in
diameter. It is almost circular, and rises
out of the sea, with abrupt, precipitious
sides, at least two hundred feet high. On

[Column 2]
the nearest point of the mainland a consid-
erable portion of the ruins of the castle are
to be found. The poet stated that he be-
lieved that the island had been originally
connected with the mainland by a nar-
row isthmus that the sea had washed away,
or else that a bridge had been built over,
which had shared the same fate. There
were traces of masonry on both sides, and
at low tide you can still walk across. We
walked up the ravine which leads down to
the sea, into the high lane, and he pointed
out to me the supposed field of Camelot,
the scene of the King's last struggle.
	"There," said he, "is a panorama. Every
spot on which your eye rests has some histori-
cal interest." It had none other, for the coun-
try was as bleak and wild as can be imag-
ined, with scarcely any vegetation. Away
north was Launceston, to whose abbey the 
faithless Guinevere retired and became its
Lady Abbess. A few miles away was the
little town of Camelford (the Camelot), and
yonder a small lake that might have served
for the burial place of "Excalibar."
	We walked over to the small village of
Tintagel, a dreary looking place of one
street, containg a few houses of the poorer
class, a small inn and one handsome house,
which was the summer residence of Mr.
Scott, then the editor of the Saturday Re-
view. The place could have but two
charms—its historic associations and its sol-
itude. Both are evidently attractions to
the poet laureate, for he frequently spends
weeks at the place, roaming around the
wild coast scenery alone, dreaming of the
heroes that once fought and did deeds of
daring upon its now desolate shores, and
framing other poetic stories to be added to
the Idyls of the King.—The North.


[For the EXPONENT.
