[COLUMN 1]

	Now my young friends is the time for action,
let us never put off till to-morrow, what should
be done to-day; let us not neglect to speak a
cheering word, or perform an act of kindness
when opportunity affords, for if we neglect it
to-day, we will not perceive it so easily to-
morrow, for as our school books tell us, "Pro-
crastination is the thief of time." Let me ad-
vise you, instead of going to from one to six
dances in a week, to spend the time thus em-
ployed in attending evening schools, lectures,
etc., or in some way that will tend to make you
useful members of society, and which will pre-
pare you to fill with honor the positions of
wives and mothers; as these are, when properly
understood, and appreciated and lived up to,
the highest and most glorious to which we can
attain in social position, in this world.
	These are subjects, which as girls, we treat
far too lightly, we do not bestow upon them
the sober thought and reflection which we
should Just think girls, there are, no doubt
scores of women in the world who would, could
they understand it, willingly sacrifice wealth
and station for the privilege which we, all of us
enjoy, if we live for it, namely to become the
honored and beloved wife, of an honorable, vir-
tuous, and affectionate man.
	I do not wish you to understand that I advo-
cate the principle of putting "old heads on
young shoulders." I firmly believe that recre-
ation and enjoyment are necessary to the
young, and that if they are so restricted that
they have no means of enjoying themselves
and satisfying the natural craving for amuse-
ment, while under the control of parents or
guardians, they, in many cases, run to the ex-
treme when they have the opportunity. But
I do not believe there are many of our parents
who use undue strictness with their children;
though we may feel at the time that we do not
have the liberty that we should, or that some
of our friends have, we will yet feel to thank
them for their watchful care, and good advice.
Remember, girls, the old and true saying, "as
the twig is bent, so the tree inclineth," and if
we are careful observers of human nature, we
must see proofs of this every day. Childhood
and youth are the periods when our characters
are formed; how careful should we then be in
the forming of them; we should avoid all com-
pany which will not have a tendency to ele-
vate and refine our minds, and purify our ideas,
unless we can exert an influence over them for
good, and bring them up to a higher standard
instead of ourselves declining to a lower. How
many of you sensible girls, after sober reflect-
ion, would wish to imitate those foolish girls
who think, to be seen, they must constantly be
heard, who push themselves forward to attract
the attention of the opposite sex. I would say
to them that it is not always the gayest flower
which is most prized; and most of the admira-
tion you do receive is only momentary, and
seldom from those possessing good taste and
sound judgment. It is the real virtues that
girls possess which gain the confidence and
esteem of good men; and those not attracted
by a modest, retiring nature, a sweet disposi-
tion and good moral character, are not worth
having.
	Again I would say, do not seek enjoyment
at the expense or injury of others, nor spend
all your precious time in seeking after that
which will not profit you, either now or in af-
ter years. Do not be in too great a hurry to
get married; do not take any one who offers
himself because he may promise all sorts of im-
possible things—offering you his eternal and
undying affection, when perhaps he is not ca-
pable of so pure a sentiment, as true, honora-
ble love. But rather prepare yourselves to ap-

