A TRITE TAUNT.

	One of the most plausible excuses that
men make for opposing woman's enfran-
chisement is, that the women themselves
do not want to vote. This is usually sup-
plemented by the assertion that when wo-
men want the ballot they will have it. Now,
while it is true that a large number of
women — a number, however, growing
smaller each year—do not interest them-
selves in anything of a more public nature
than neighborhood gossip, it is also true
that the masses of intelligent, educated wo-
men do desire the ballot and back this de-
sire by reasons of sufficient cogency to en-
title them to a hearing in the councils of
State and nation. Whence come the nu-
merously signed petitions that year after
year go up to the Legislatures of the dif-
ferent States, if women do not care for
citizens' privileges? Whence the letters
that not unfrequently accompany them,
fraught with such a deep and all pervading
interest in the cause of equal rights? The
signers of these petitions, the authors of
these letters, are not lecturers, nor writers,
nor editors; nor yet are they women, as is
often charged, who have a perpetual quarrel
with nature because they are not men.
They belong usually to the middle walks of
life, and are earnest but silent laborers in
humanity's vineyard. But as the coral in-
sect silently and out of sight builds up the
islands of the ocean, so are these quiet
workers building up the public sentiment
that will one day give to woman her right-
ful share in framing the laws that govern
her. 
	Women whose daily toil earns daily
bread; women who labor year after year
with never a dollar they can call their own,
servants in all things but salary; women
who labor in fetters, vainly seeking to ac-
complish that, which were justice done they
could accomplish with ease—these are they 
who work with what strength they have
and wait with what patience they can com-
mand, while men in high places answer
their prayers for redress with contempt,
derision, or indifference, and disregarding
their appeals, say, "when women care for
the ballot they shall have it."
	But despite all opposition, the indications
are constantly showing how steadily the
barriers are giving way which shut women
from a field of usefulness, which, notwith-
standing all that may be urged to the con-
trary, the best, purest and truest women of
the nation long to enter.—New North West.


