[Vol55 | October 1968 | Page 7 | Fiction | If Spring Be | Late Chapter]
[If Spring Be Late Chapter]

Mrs. Pleasant
Nelda Pierson Litchfield
Calgary, Alberta, Canada

I shall call her that, because I think of her when I hear that adjective. We met many years ago, when my husband and I had been married for only a few months. An older man with whom my husband worked at the office invited us to his home for dinner. The remarks of this man's lovely wife have made indelible impressions on my mind. The dinner was a veritable feast; yet, I remember less about it.

[ILLUSTRATION]

As I helped with the dishes, my eyes lingered on the "Thursday" pattern I was holding, and I remarked about the beauty of the hand-worked towel.

"Oh, that," she said, "was the poorer one. I think we just have some Thursdays and Mondays left. The children like the other designs better."

She took me with her into the boys' rooms while she got the small children into their pajamas and sent them into the bathrooms to get their baths and teeth brushed. She seemed well-organized, loving, and very patient. They responded to her with sincere devotion. When they were both clean and dressed, they appeared in the hall, ready for the session of what their mother called "horseplay." Mrs. Pleasant maintained that all tiny folks needed to be tired and happy before bedtime. She allowed them one-half hour in the playroom at the end of the bath session, timing them by the clock. I noted

43

that she had one cupboard up high in the room, in which she kept first-aid supplies. I watched the twinkle in her eyes when she admitted that these supplies were sometimes useful after a nightly workout.

"My husband and I feel that children need to play 'roughhouse' now and then," she said, smiling.

When the little boys were tucked down into their beds, she said we could have a good talk. Our husbands were in the den, and the older children were busy in the dining room doing their homework. We went back to the playroom. The comfort of the children had been paramount in the planning of that room. Mrs. Pleasant stated that it had taken five years to complete this room to specifications. Rocking horses, painted floor games, basketball equipment, and an extensive children's library of books and musical recordings made the room a haven of fun. There was a noticeable lack of dolls and girls' toys, of course, but the Pleasants had no daughters.

I stood in awe at the material blessings that had been bestowed upon the Pleasant children. Their mother, a cultured university graduate, sat down on one of the loungers beside me and sighed, "You know, dear, we were not always able to buy such furnishings as we have now." Little by little, she shared the details with me.

"My father was a doctor, and my husband's people had a successful business. They felt there was no reason for us to live in the 'cubbyhole' we rented. However, we wanted to feel independent. It's true, we had quite a struggle while my husband was getting through college; the only money we had was what I could earn as secretary to the dean of engineering."

Later, Mrs. Pleasant worked at home, doing typing for the professors, in order that she could be with the first, and then the second child. By this time, Mr. Pleasant had a part-time position, instructing at the college he attended. The tiny suite in which they lived was close to the campus, which saved transportation expenses.

Mrs. Pleasant said she had tried to run her home like the best and most orderly office. She had received a degree in business administration, making it possible for her to "understand her husband's language." The two of them learned to budget realistically. They took year-end inventory, to decide on purchases for the future. In allowing themselves few luxuries, they were able to start a small savings account at the bank.

They had two rules in those days: first, only one movie or dance a month and dessert once a week, usually on Sunday.

"When you look at our home now, you, I realize, can hardly believe that once we got by with apple-box cupboards—apple boxes were free from our grocery store. I painted them and made attractive drapes out of very inexpensive print, bought as remnants. In the fall and spring, I would rent a sewing machine for a week, to keep things in good condition and myself clothed. For the five-dollar fee, I could sew what I needed. I can see that little portable now, on

44

top of our dresser. Oh, we called it a dresser, although it was simply another set of apple boxes, draped, with a mirror on top. Every inch of space in that apartment-room was at a premium."

She told of an incident that indicated clearly the dimensions of the room.

"One night, when we had both gone to sleep, Mother knocked at our door. It was after midnight, but we had no phone. She had come to bring us the news of Uncle David's accident. She said that Father was working on him in the operating room. By the time I got my husband awake and the bed lifted up into the wall closet, in order to open the door, Mother seemed upset, and we heard her grumble, 'To think that an only child, a daughter of mine, would have to live like this!' You see, she often forgot the early challenges of her marriage, when Father was attending medical school."

Mr. Pleasant had a good sense of humor, and when there would be the least breakdown in office-home management, he would come to the rescue with such comments as, "Has our file clerk taken ill? Under the heading on this file, 'Buy Folded Diapers,' she has filed absolutely nothing!" Mrs. Pleasant always retaliated with laughter, suggesting facetiously that he fire the file clerk immediately. Then Mr. Pleasant would announce, in dramatic alarm, "The room is too crowded. I am afraid I shall never be able to find the file clerk. There is hardly room for the baby!"

Mrs. Pleasant, the night of our visit, summed up her thoughts with the remark that all women ought to learn to enjoy what they can afford to own.

Last week, a young married woman came to my home, obviously disturbed because she did not have some of the worldly appliances which my husband, after years of planning, had provided for our family. I felt impressed to tell her about Mrs. Pleasant. She had complained, "Why, you should see our apartment! It is no bigger than my office used to be, when I worked as a receptionist, before our marriage. I am ashamed to invite anyone to our place."

A letter came in my mailbox today from her. She climaxed her remarks with these comments: "Too many of us young wives are not willing to sacrifice while our husbands are getting started. We expect now what our mothers have taken a lifetime to have. We need more Mrs. Pleasants! She has made me happy, once again, to live out of our suitcases and cardboard boxes. Thank you for letting me meet her!"

---

A POEM
Caroline Atterton

"Write a poem," says she as plan as can be!
As plan as the nose on your face!
I'll do what I can—the best that I can!
But I warn you—it takes just this much space.

45

**Throw Down the Gauntlet**

Janet W. Breeze

Chapter 5

SYNOPSIS: Nancy Jackson, with two children, accompanies her husband, Grant, on a teaching assignment to the Island of Truk. After a brief stopover on Guam, the family arrives on Truk, where a quonset hut becomes their home. However, Nancy is told by a native doctor that she will have to go to a hospital on Guam for the arrival of twin babies. In the meantime, the family observes the Sabbath and hears part of the Tabernacle Choir broadcast. A letter arrives from the Mortensens, their friends, saying that the Jackson family will be welcomed by the Mortensens on Saipan, and that another teacher has been found to exchange teaching assignments with Grant on Truk.

■ The sign was painted white, and the black letters read: "Welcome to Saipan—Capital of Micronesia."

The dismal looking concrete and clapboard buildings with corrugated steel roofs were also white, and the dust from the crushed coral road gave the vines of purple Bougainvillea an eerie pastel appearance.

"That's downtown," Francine Mortensen pointed out, "Chalan Kanoa, the main village. However, whenever anyone on the hill tells you he is going to the village, it just means he is going shopping, because there are villages and stores dotted all over the island. Mostly, though, we stick to the two stores which are air-conditioned and carry the widest variety of American foods."

"That was one thing that really surprised me about Truk," Nancy said. "Truk trading—they carried just about anything one could think of. I really came out to Trust Territory prepared for a steady diet of raw fish and coconuts!"

Francine laughed. "Have you eaten any raw fish yet?"

"No!"

"Well, you're bound to before long. Sashimi is the most popular party food on the island—raw tuna covered with soy sauce and lemon juice."

"I like hot dogs and mustard," Grant said.

46
