[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: R. S. REPORT. | Author: Unknown]

R. S. REPORT. 
WAYNE STAKE. 
	The Relief Society conference of Wayne
Stake was held September 17, 1899, in the 
Thurber Relief Society hall. Stake Presi-
dent W. E. Robison and a number of 
brethren were present, and President Jane 
S. Coleman presided. 
	The Thurber choir sang “Guide us, O
Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer by Patri-
arch E. H. Blackburn. Singing, “I long
to breathe the mountain air.” Minutes of 
the previous conference read by the secre-
tary and accepted. 
	President Coleman desired the blessings 
invoked by our beloved patriarch realized 
throughout our conference. Said the aim 
of the Relief Society is high, it is one of 
the privileges of the Gospel. We should 
sustain purity and virtue. The Lord has 
commanded that we bring up our children 
in light and truth, we should lead in every-
thing that has a tendency to elevate. The 
presidency had visited all the local branches
and found them in good condition. The


[Column 1]
poor and needy had been looked after, and
union prevailed. An effort had been made
to obey counsel in planting mulberry trees
in view of silk culture in the future. It
had been successful, and she hoped the
society would double its efforts another sea-
son. Felt the blessing of the Lord had
been upon our labors, and she felt very ap-
preciative for His many mercies.
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks said we need
the aid of the priesthood at all times. Our
leading brethren and sisters are trying to
prepare us for the events that are coming.
The time has come when we have to live
up to the principles of the Gospel. Now is
the time to shake off our indifference.
Spoke on the word of wisdom, also on pay-
ing tithes and offerings, and of the mission
of motherhood and the good lives we as
sisters should lead.
	Counselor Sarah J. Forsythe said we
should teach our children the principles of
the Gospel and encourage them to attend
their meetings. We should keep all the
commandments more strictly.
	President Louisa J. Taylor reported the
Fremont branch. They are a united band
of sisters.
	President Margaret J. Taylor reported
Loa branch, they are energetic. With the
aid of the Young Ladies, the society there
had purchased a lot in a better location
than the present one. Both the associations
intend to unite in building a suitable hall
to meet in.
	President W. E. Robinson was pleased
to have the privilege of attending Relief
Society conference in such a comfortable
building, and pleased to see so many out.
“The remarks have been directed to the
mothers, who have the forming of the
minds of future generations. We are made
strong by sustaining one another, he loved
to see and sustain Relief Society work.
We all have responsibility placed upon us.
Every sister should be an active member.
Prayed the Lord to bless all connected with
the good work.
	Singing. Benediction by Bishop N. W.
Mansfield.
	Afternoon session. Singing, “Come, O
Thou King of kings.” Prayer by Elder
Edgar Jeffrey. Singing, “The happy day
is rolling on.”
	President Sarah G. Meeks reported the
Thurber branch as prospering.
	Sister Juliette Blackburn spoke on some
of the instructions given at the last confer-
ence, and bore testimony to the efficacy of
prayer.
	Patriarch Blackburn said there could be
no heaven without the sisters. He was
here to bless the sick, felt to bow before the
Lord continually and thank Him for His
power made manifest. Said there is not
enough devotion and spirituality cultivated.
Our young sisters should guard their virtue
as they would their lives. Angels are
watching us. The sisters hold in their
hands the destiny of the home.
	Secretary Anna Coleman presented the
General Board and Stake officers, and they
were sustained by unanimous vote. Tor-
rey and Grover branches were reported by
their respective presidents as doing well.
	President Elizabeth Rust reported Caine-
ville. She said in summer time, instead of
making quilts and sewing at working
meetings, they all met on that day and
turned out with their hoes and cultivated
their lot, which is planted with mulberry
trees, beans and corn. It gave the sisters

[Column 2]
rosy cheeks. She gave other good advice
on society work.
	Sister Sarah A. Robison said if we are
united in our efforts a great amount of
good can be accomplished. We should be
charitable one to another.
	Bishop M. W. Mansfield was pleased
with the untiring efforts of the sisters, and
was gratified at having the conference held
in Thurber Ward. We should be very
humble and prayerful, and acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn realized that the
spirit of the Lord had been present. Spoke
of having seen the Prophet Joseph Smith
and heard him prophesy, and had his words
fulfilled. “If we are faithful we will live
to see great events transpire. We live in a
glorious dispensation.”
	Sister Maria Jakeman reported Lyman
branch doing well.
	President Jane S. Coleman was gratified
with the good reports of the presidents.
Advised, where grain had been raised this
season, to gather as usual and store it up.
When Relief Society teachers visit, their
conversation should be of Relief Society
work and the Gospel.
	Thurber Relief Society Hall was then
dedicated, President N. E. Robison offer-
ing the dedicatory prayer.
	Benediction by Bishop W. H. Morrill.
