[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: SPECIAL MEETING AT HEBER CITY. | Author: Unknown]

SPECIAL MEETING AT HEBER CITY.
	Minutes of a special meeting held in the
Heber City Stake House, September 23, 1899.
	Meeting opened with singing “An angel
from on high.” Prayer by Christy Giles.
Continued by singing, “How firm a
foundation.”
	President Anna R. Duke spoke but a
short time, as she desired to hear President
Zina D. H. Young, of Salt Lake City, who
was present.
	President Young addressed the sisters:
“Sisters be faithful and watchful, guard
against faultfinding and never let your chil-
dren hear you speak disrespectfully of any
one, or find fault with the authorities of the
Church. I was present at a meeting in
Nauvoo and heard the Prophet Joseph
Smith say in a discourse, ‘I now turn the
key of knowledge for women.’ Women
have filled an important position in the
Church since that time, and will continue
to do so. It is now over sixty-three years
since I was baptized. I have seen many
changes. We are not working under a
mere belief, but we have the blessing of
assurance. We are sure of a reward if we
prove faithful. It is our privilege to
understand the Gospel. We should study
and read something every day from good
books. Teach your children the principles
of the Gospel, the Gospel is the bread of
life. Let the children learn of the peace of
the Gospel at home. The Lord has great
blessings in store for His handmaidens.”
Sister Young closed her remarks by saying
she desired to hear the sisters talk and
asked the blessings of God to be with
all.
	President Anna Duke introduced Sister
Elizabeth Buzzo, from Salt Lake City, who
made a few remarks; also Sister Catherine
Archibald, of Snyderville, who spoke a
short time.
	Sister Ann Murdock bore her testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Sarah Bond made a few remarks,
also Christy Giles.
	President Anna Duke thought we were
blest to have a sister with us who had seen
the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Sister Wilson, from Midway, said she
knew Aunt Zina when she was a young
girl. She had lived in President Young’s
family for a number of years, and Aunt
Zina’s every day life was an exemplary
one.
	Sister Zina Young spoke a short time.
Her remarks were on the early rise of the
Church, and the blessings in store for those
that prove faithful.
	President Hatch was very glad to see
Aunt Zina. He had known her since he
was a boy of about ten years of age. Said
the Relief Society was one of the most
helpful organizations in the Church. Asked
the blessing of the Lord to be with all.
	Sister Anna Duke gave all who wished a
chance to shake hands with Sister
Young.
	Meeting closed with singing “Praise to
the man.” Benediction by Sister Ruth
Hatch.
	Sister Zina shook hands with one hun-
dred and twenty-six.
			ALICE M. LAMBERT,
							Act. Sec.


The dark today leads into light tomorrow,
There is no endless joy, no endless sorrow.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SPEECH OF MISS ANTHONY.
AT QUEEN’S HALL, LONDON, JULY 29, 1899.
Mrs. President, Officers and Members of the
	Suffrage Societies of Great Britain and
	Ireland and the world over:
	I wish I might be worthy of the honor
which Mrs. Phillipps gave me of being one
of those who, more than fifty years ago,
assembled in the little town of Seneca Falls,
New York, and made the declaration that
the right to vote is the under-lying right,
the one which protects all other rights.
But I was not there. Lucretia Mott was
there, and Martha C. White, whose daugh-
ter sits beside me, and Elizabeth Cady
Stanton—all signers of the call for that first
Convention. I hear all these women and
the men also, asking “Why is it that when
this first proclamation for the ballot was
made in the United States more than half a
century ago, other countries are getting
ahead of us?” Well, I can assure you
there are many reasons. It is not from any
lack of hard work and persistent effort on
the part of the handful of women who have
stood at the front of this movement in our
country; but the complications are very un-
like those in your own country. Suppose
that here in England, after all your labors,
and after all your magnificent champions—
from John Stuart Mill and Jacob Bright,
down to Mr. Begg—had worked in your
Parliament for years, had urged enactment
of a law, and succeeded in getting it through
the House of Lords, that the question then
had to be voted on by every elector in the
mines, the factories and the rural districts
of England, how much would you expect
to get all at once? And that is the difficul-
ty with us.
	Our revolutionary Fathers proclaimed
equal political rights. At first they made
practical application to a very few men only,
and during the more than a hundred years
battle in our country, those great principles
have been gradually extended to one class
after another. In the beginning only
Church members voted, then only rich men,
then only white men, then only men; that
is, we had an aristocracy of the Church; then
an aristocracy of men of wealth; then an aris-
tocracy of white men, and last we now have
an aristocracy of men. We are simply de-
manding today the application of our funda-
mental principle of political equality to the
other half of our citizens. We are asking
for nothing now, but simply for the prac-
tical application of the old doctrine that was
declared by Hancock and Adams and all
the old revolutionists, who rebelled against
King George because he insisted on taxing
them without giving them the right of
representation. We are insisting today that
the men of the United States shall no long
er continue to violate their principles—to
tax women and deny them representation.
We have what you might call forty-five
Englands: that is, we have forty-five States,
and each State Legislature must first pass a
resolution submitting the question to be
voted upon by the men of that State. We
have succeeded in gaining the franchise in
four states of the Union by this slow pro-
cess.
	Another hindrance I want to mention to
you: every single year over a quarter of a
million of foreign born men are landed on
our shores, fresh from the monarchies of
the Old World, who know nothing at all of
the Declaration of Independence, of the
principle of free and equal government,

[Column 2]
and we have, as General Grant once said, “a
big job on our hands.” We have to edu-
cate a quarter of a million of men every
year into the principles of our American
Institutions. And I want to say to you,
my good friends, that in every one of the
fifteen States in the Union in which the
question has been voted upon, if only the
native born men had had the franchise, the
women in every one of them would have
had the ballot today. I am not sorry that
those men who do not understand our
Institutions have the right to vote, for they
never would understand them if they had
not that right. So we must wait with
patience the slow process of education.
And we have been very patient: in our
half century of agitation and education we
have gained Woman Suffrage in four
States! And besides that, women have
municipal suffrage in one State, a vote on
matters of taxation in several others, and
school suffrage, to a greater or less extent,
in twenty-three States. In over one half of
the States of our Union women are voting
today. In Louisiana, one of the old slave
States, on the sixth day of this month,
women taxpayers in the city of New Orleans
for the first time in history cast their ballots
on the question of taxing the people of that
city for the purpose of building sewers and
improving sanitary conditions. The men
were so considerate of the women that they
made that constitutional proviso, that they
arranged for them to vote by proxy if they
were too modest to go to the ballot box.
When some of the women attempted to get
a proxy they learned that by the law of
Louisiana, a married woman’s name on a
certificate would not stand, therefore they
were compelled to go to the ballot box.
	The distance we have gone in the last
fifty years is beyond computation. Before
I sit down I will tell one little incident
illustrating the condition of things when we
started. I had been a teacher in the State
of New York for fifteen years—from the
age of fifteen to thirty. A State Teachers’
Convention was held in my city of Roches-
ter. Over a thousand women had gathered
in that convention and perhaps two hun-
dred men. Up to that time no woman’s
voice had ever been heard in one of these
conventions; only men had reported the re-
sult of their experience, because it was con-
sidered improper for women to speak in
public. Those men appointed a committee
to prepare resolutions, and one of these de-
clared that teachers were not respected as
were ministers, lawyers and doctors. In
discussing that resolution one man declared
that the profession of teacher was higher
than that of a doctor, of more use to the
community; another, that it was higher
than that of a lawyer, and a third even
affirmed that it was of more service to the
world to train the young than it was to try
to reform them after they had been brought 
up in a crooked way. “And yet,” said
these men, “ministers, doctors and lawyers
are treated with the greatest respect, invited
into the best families, often elected to high
offices, whereas schoolmasters are treated
slightingly, and are often called Miss Nan-
cies and old grandmothers!” I listened
with a great deal of interest, and at length
—having been born a Quaker, and always
taught that God inspired a woman to speech
just as weil as a man—I rose in my seat and
said, “Mr. President!”
	The president was a Professor of Mathe-
matics at West Point, a pompous man,
wearing a blue coat, brass buttons and buff

[Column 3]
vest. He stepped to the front of the plat-
form, and inserting his thumbs in his arm-
holes, asked, “What will the lady have?”
	The idea never entered that man’s cran-
ium that a woman could rise in her seat and
address the chair just like a man! And I
said, “Mr. President and gentlemen, I
would like to say a word on the question
under discussion.”
	“Then,” said Professor Davis, “what is
the pleasure of the convention?” And he
looked down to this little handful of men on
the front seats, never casting a furtive
glance to the thousand women crowding
that hall. One man moved that the lady
should be heard, and another seconded, and
they discussed the question for half an hour.
	At last, by a very small majority, it was
decided that the lady should be heard, and
I managed to say, “Mr. President and
gentlemen, I have listened to your discus-
sion with a great deal of interest, but it
seems to me that none of you quite compre-
hend the cause of the disrespect of which
you complain. Do you not see that so long
as society says that a woman hasn’t brains
enough to be either a minister, a lawyer or
a doctor, but has ample brains to be a
teacher, that every man of you who teaches
school practically acknowledges that he
hasn’t any more brains than a woman?”
and sat down.
	As I passed out of the hall at the close of
the session I heard many a woman whisper-
ing to another, “Who is that creature?”
“Where did she come from?” “I was
never so ashamed in my life, I wished the
floor had opened and swallowed me up!”
They wer honest, they really believed
it was degrading to a woman to speak.
	The next morning Professor Davis in
calling the convention to order, assumed
his pompous position and said: “I have
been asked why it is women are not put
upon the committees, why they are not
invited to prepare reports and so on.” And
then he continued: “Look at this mag-
nificent hall, at the beauty of the entabla-
ture, the symmetry of the shaft and the
strength of the pedestal. Could I be instru-
mental in dragging from its proud eleva-
tion that beautiful etablature and rolling it
in the dirt and dust that surround the
pedestal? No, heaven forbid!”
	And he was quite sincere, and really be-
lieved that if a woman stood in an audience
and spoke she would be degraded to the
level of a man. Exactly so now. Men are
afraid that if women vote, if they hold
office, if they sit in Congressional and
Parliamental halls, they will degrade them-
selves to the level of men!!


