[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: CHARLOTLE PERKINS STETSON. | Author: Unknown]

			CHARLOTLE PERKINS STETSON.


[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
			(Continued.)
	Singing hymns (the natives can sing
nothing else) is a great source of happiness
to us. A portion of our time every eve-
ning is spent in this amusement.
	When Mr. Layton returned from Tahiti,
he brought with him a young girl with a
view to rescue her from a life of sin, and to
watch over her for good. She is a sweet
singer and looks innocent, but has had no
teachings from her parents to warn her to
shun temptations. I would like to have a
large house; and have means to take all
such poor, abused children under my im-
mediate charge. I look upon this poor
girl’s intelligent countenance, listen to her
pleasant voice and think how lamentable
that she must be sacrificed to the base pas-
sion of ungodly men. Had I no daughters
of my own, I would adopt her, and teach
her to be chaste and pure; but she would
be a dangerous companion for those young-
er than herself; there is something ensnar-
ing in her looks. The two little girls we
have in our family are very amusing. They
sing with energy, as if they felt the thrill-
ing effect of their own music. I look upon
them with admiration. 
	September 20. Last night our rest was
disturbed by the sickness of Brother Lay-
ton’s wife. The Elders were called up to
administer to her by the laying on of hands.
Her little sister sleeping in my house was
awakened to go with all the relatives and
sympathize, whether the person is danger-
ously ill or not. Such is their custom,
even to a fanaura (a birth) all must be
present.
	This morning a sister from Ravaivai,
called and inquired for Ellen. It was her
niece, she said, who had made friends with
our daughter, when she visited that island.
For that reason she called Ellen her grand-
child, and land belonging to her niece, she
affirmed, was Ellen’s. Such is their cus-
tom when two make an agreement to be
friends. Whatever property they possess
belongs equally to both, and must not be
withholden in case it is needed.
	The 9th day. This morning a native
sister sent in haste for the Elders, having
been taken alarmingly ill with the cramp
cholic. Mr. Pratt had a few days before
refused to administer to her and her hus-
band, on account of their using too much
tobacco, upon which they were both re-
baptized and covenanted to use no more. I
nursed her, anointed her with oil and the
Elders laid on hands in the name of the
Lord, and she soon recovered. Poor
creatures, they know nothing about nursing
each other; children they are in knowledge.
They repeat everything from their teachers,
they set no bounds to their abilities. Sacri-
fices and self-denial they consider necessary
adornments; powers of mind to supply their
wants and assist the needy, they think
should be qualifications of all the servants
of God. They are liberal with their means

[Column 2]
in the highest degree, but little do they
have. 
	September 15th. One year ago this day
we left the coast of California; that was the
Sabbath, this is Monday. Little did I then
think what was before me! My extreme
sickness on the water and the trials attend-
ing that voyage, were hidden from me.
Had I known beforehand what I should
suffer, I could not have undertaken it. I
have endeavored to sow good seed. My 
daughters have set an example of industry
and sobriety. Our reward will certainly
come to us in the great future.
	Mr. Grouard invited us to his house to
dine. His native wife, after helping to
cook the food, would not eat at the table.
I marvel greatly when I see white men,
sensible, intelligent men, conforming to the
habits of the island women; eating their
food from the ground, without knife or
fork; isolating themselves from the world;
raising a posterity they can never be proud
of. There must be some cause not appar-
ent to those who are sent here to preach the
Gospel. For them to go back to their
native country and mingle in society,
would be like being ushered into a new
world.
	When the white men are absent the head
chief leads. “Hoatau” has a powerful
voice, and great energy and force in his
manner, besides great zeal for this cause.
He is a natural orator. Mr. Grouard is ex-
tremely anxious to be sent to California to
get a vessel in which to convey the island
brethren to the body of the Church. Mr.
Pratt is not in favor of the enterprise, fear-
ing it might detain us here too long. How
painful to be kept in suspense!
	The 22nd day. The equinoctial storm
occurred, which continued for a week. We
are expecting to hear of terrible disasters at
sea. Glad our hearts are to see the smiling
face of the old king of day once more. In
this far-off world a dark, dismal day seems
intolerable. Sunshine and flowers are our
congenial companions.
	On the 26th, before the dawn of day, Mr.
Pratt went forth with dog and gun to shoot
wild fowl. He was induced to take Fran-
ces, our second daughter, with him, with a
view to dispel the gloom which seemed
hanging over her. They went two miles to
the mountains, up the cliff, and returned
with plenty of game. The excursion had
the desired effect. This seclusion from the
world at intervals is very trying on the
children. At such times they resort to
rambles on the mountains with the native
children, gather wild flowers, decorate
themselves and return in fine spirits.
	I have witnessed another setting sun,
beautiful when going down behind the
great deep. All is silent, not a sound do I
hear from the noisy world. I know not
but it is all buried up, and Babylon fallen
to rise no more forever. I trust, however,
that Salt Lake City still remains. How
long must we endure this imprisonment! 
I have one little hope remaining. Captain 
Johnson is expected in, and he will bring
us news from the dear old world. So I
will try to live a few days longer. 
	My employment daily is to keep the
children at their books. I made a feast for
those under my immediate charge. Four-
teen were seated around the table at once. 
They conducted themselves extremely well,
ate with knives and forks and tried to
imitate their superiors.
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No deduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
				Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1899


