[Vol28 | March 1941 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Child-Welfare Provisions Of The Social Security Act]
These services were chiefly in the nature of prenatal clinics for examination and instruction of expectant mothers, and child-health centers for examination and immunization of children. These services were renewed on a permanent basis through provisions of the Social Security Act of 1935.

The Relief Society became actively interested in the first Federal-state cooperative undertaking for maternal and child health under the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act. It was in anticipation of this service that the Society, seven months prior to the final passage of the Act, took action at its semi-annual general conference in April, 1922, recommending the centralization of the Society's wheat trust fund and the use of interest accruing thereon for health work, with emphasis on maternity care and child welfare. This action stimulated the interest and participation of local Relief Societies in maternal and child welfare, an interest which has actively continued until the present time, despite the intervening period of six years between 1929 and 1936 when the lack of Federal funds for this purpose greatly curtailed the services of states in this respect.

The local Societies helped to sponsor prenatal and baby clinics, provided funds for remedial and preventive treatment, such as dental work and removal of tonsils, supplied Relief Society cabinets with layettes and maternity bundles, and endowed hospital beds for maternity use. In connection with this program, the Relief Society of Cottonwood Stake (in Salt Lake County) established a first-class maternity hospital in 1924 which has operated successfully ever since.

Relief Society women everywhere are proud of the progressive action of their organization in this respect, and of the fact that President Amy Brown Lyman (then general secretary-treasurer, and a member of the House of Representatives in the Utah State Legislature) introduced the bill providing for Utah's acceptance of the provisions of the Federal Act, and succeeded in putting the measure through without a dissenting vote.

Another Relief Society service instituted soon after inception of the first Federal provisions for maternal and child health, and continuing without interruption since that time, is the loan fund for graduate nurses accepted as students in university public-health nursing courses. This loan fund was established in 1923 as a memorial in honor of Clarissa S. Williams, then general president of Relief Society, under whose administration the maternity and child-health work was instituted in the Relief Society. The purpose of this memorial is to stimulate interest in nursing as a profession for women, to help meet the need for more young women trained in public-health nursing which accompanied the establishment of maternal and child-health provisions, and to help make it possible for young women to prepare themselves for public-health nursing. Re-establishment of maternal and child-health services under the Social Security Act has resulted in increased use of this loan fund by young women qualifying for public-health work in order to carry this program forward in the local communities of Utah and other states.

Maternal and child-health services were permanently renewed under Title V, Part 1, of the Social Security Act, extending and improving services for promoting and safeguarding the health of mothers and children, especially in rural areas and the smaller cities. Maternal and child-health services under provisions of the Social Security Act are in effect in every state, in the District of Columbia and the territories of Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico. This provision is administered by the U. S. Children's Bureau, working in cooperation with state health departments, and makes grants of funds annually available to participating states, which must provide matching funds. None of this money is for cash grants to individual families, but rather for public-health services, such as community maternity centers (prenatal and postpartum), child-health conference centers for infants and pre-school children, examination of school children, vaccination for smallpox and immunization against diphtheria, and general public-health nursing service. One or more of these services is available in every county in Utah, but there are still hundreds of counties in the United States with no rural public-health nursing service.

In all counties where these services have been established, they are available to all mothers and children, irrespective of economic need. Wherever these services are available, any mother may receive instruction, both before and after birth of her baby, and may take her baby and pre-school children to child-health conferences for examination by a physician, for instruction in infant care, and for health instruction and supervision. At these conferences, young children are also vaccinated for smallpox and immunized against diphtheria. A public-health nurse arranges for and assists at maternity and child-health conferences and also visits the mother at home, both before and after birth of her child; she also follows through in home visits with respect to children examined at the child-health conferences. Health supervision of older children is conducted through the schools. The nurse visits the schools regularly and aids the teachers in guarding against communicable disease. The school children are examined periodically by a physician, and sometimes by a dentist. Again, the public-health nurse follows through with the parents in arranging for medical aid and dental care to correct defects. For information as to where and when such clinics and conferences are held in local communities, mothers may inquire of the public-health nurse who usually has an office in the county building or who may always be located through the nearest public school. Local Relief Societies may invite the public-health nurse to a meeting to explain the program, and may cooperate by announcing in their meetings the time and place of maternity clinics and child-health conferences.

Besides the physician and the public-health nurse who sees the mothers and children at the health conferences, other specialized services, such as those of dentists, nutritionists, and social workers, are being made available in an increasing number of areas. Some of the maternal and child-health funds are used also for stipends to enable physicians, dentists, nutritionists, nurses, and health educators to prepare for public-health service.

In addition to the usual services already indicated, the maternal and child-health program conducts special demonstrations in a few areas of special need by providing, for those who are unable to pay, such services as corrective dental care for mothers and children, home delivery service, and care for premature infants. The traveling dental unit which has operated in certain rural counties of Utah where local dental service is unavailable is an example of the extra service given to demonstrate the need for and the value of correcting defects which are found through examination at the schools and health conferences. Public funds are insufficient to provide for needed corrective dental, medical, and surgical attention for all those unable to pay for such care, but the services of this nature which have been provided from the funds for maternal and child-health work have not only met urgent needs in the few demonstration areas where they have been available, but have stimulated various community cooperative plans for bringing physicians and dentists into communities and for arranging for corrective care for those unable to pay.

A decided decline in maternal and infant death rates has accompanied the resumption of maternal and child-health services under the Social Security Act. Approximately 10,000 mothers are alive today who would have died in the last four years if the maternal mortality rate of 1935 had remained unchanged. There are approximately 28,000 children alive today who would have died in infancy during the last four years if the infant death rate of 1935 had continued to prevail. Although significant gains have been made in extending maternal and child-health services, especially in rural areas, reports show striking evidence of need for further expansion. The need for immediate expansion of these services is considered to be especially urgent now because of the intensification of the extra service given to demonstrate the need for and the value of correcting defects which are found through examination at the schools and health conferences. Public funds are insufficient to provide for needed corrective dental, medical, and surgical attention for all those unable to pay for such care, but the services of this nature which have been provided from the funds for maternal and child-health work have not only met urgent needs in the few demonstration areas where they have been available, but have stimulated various community cooperative plans for bringing physicians and dentists into communities and for arranging for corrective care for those unable to pay.

A decided decline in maternal and infant death rates has accompanied the resumption of maternal and child-health services under the Social Security Act. Approximately 10,000 mothers are alive today who would have died in the last four years if the maternal mortality rate of 1935 had remained unchanged. There are approximately 28,000 children alive today who would have died in infancy during the last four years if the infant death rate of 1935 had continued to prevail. Although significant gains have been made in extending maternal and child-health services, especially in rural areas, reports show striking evidence of need for further expansion. The need for immediate expansion of these services is considered to be especially urgent now because of the intensification of the national defense program.

*For brief summary of all provisions of the Social Security Act, see "Public Welfare Provisions," by Vera W. Pohlman, Relief Society Magazine, November, 1940, pp. 767-775.

*"Child Welfare 1930-40," The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 212, (November, 1940) pp. 1-11.

*Leona B. Fetzer, "Some Aspects of Child Welfare," Relief Society Magazine, February, 1941, pp. 87-90.

*Social Security Act, Title IV, Section 406.

*Edwin F. Daily, "Annual Report to Maternal and Child-Health Advisory Committee," issued by Children's Bureau, 10 pp. mimeographed.
