[Vol28 | March 1941 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Reverence McKay]
ATTITUDE IN GENERAL
Of the attitude of people generally toward Reverence, Charles E. Jefferson, author of "The Character of Jesus," declares impressively that "we are not by nature or by training a reverent people. There are those who say we become less reverent as the years go on.... There are wide areas of American society from which the spirit of reverence has been banished. Men and women in many a circle are clever, interesting, brilliant, but they lack one of the three dimensions of life—they have no reach upward. Their conversation sparkles but is frivolous and often flippant. Their talk is witty, but the wit is often at the expense of high and sacred things. He has come far down in the scale of being who in order to display his powers finds it necessary to ridicule those things which have been prized by all good men. When one enters the world of our present-day reformers, he is impressed by the large number who lack the upward look. Many of these men are tremendously in earnest, they see the crying evils of the world; their sympathies are wide and their zeal is hot, but they have no sky above their heads. They aim to glorify no Father who is in heaven. Some of them claim to admire the Man of Nazareth. They extol His character and His teachings. Yet, strange to say, they do not imitate His reverence, or cast a single glance in the direction in which His eyes were always looking. One finds this lack of reverence even in the Church. In every community there are those who treat the house of God as they treat a street-car, entering it and leaving it when they please. Even habitual church attendants often surprise and shock one by their irreverent behavior in the house of prayer. Those persons are not ignoramuses or barbarians;—they are simply undeveloped in the virtue of reverence."
If there were more Reverence in human hearts, there would be less room for sin and sorrow, and increased capacity for joy and gladness. To make more cherished, more adaptable, more attractive, this gem among brilliant virtues is a project worthy of the most united and prayerful efforts of every officer, every parent, and every member of the Church.
