Reminiscences of Margaret Gay Judd Clawson
======================================================================

Reminiscences of Margaret Gay Judd Clawson. (Continued.) Our next thrilling adventure occurred one pleasant afternoon, as we were slowly jogging along. All at once our whole train was flying in every direction, with lightning speed, over the plains. I don't think the fastest horses could have kept up with our cows. Father sat in the front of the wagon talking to and whipping his staid old oxen to keep them going right along. He was afraid the cows might get mixed up with other teams that were running, or might whirl around and tip the wagon over with us all in it. We went over humps and bumps. Sometimes our heads would be thrown up to the top of the wagon bows, then we would alight anywhere it happened, inside the wagon. Nobody can appreciate the situation without the experience. Again death was staring me in the face and again I covered up my head. If I had to be killed I didn't want to see the process. Mother soon snatched the covering off my head, and when we came to a stop she gave me a sound lecture to always be on the lookout and watch for the best chance for escape. Well, after the cattle had run as long as they could, they stopped. There were several accidents, and one woman was killed. She was knocked down and trampled to death. She left a family of children. How we dreaded the stampedes! There is something dreadful in a lot of panic-stricken cattle. Even human beings are not responsible when fright overcomes reason. One cow in our team was very intelligent, in fact, she was so bright that she used to hide in the willows to keep from being yoked up, but when father found her and yoked her she was a good worker and a good milker. She got very lame at one time and could scarcely travel. My parents were very much worried, having already lost one cow. They were afraid they could not keep up with the company, and so mother said she would make a poultice and put it on as soon as Bossy laid down for the night. Mother made a very large plaster that covered all the cow's lame hip. Well, the next morning when father went to get the cows up he called out, "Why mother, you have poulticed the wrong hip." Mother said, "Never mind; it's all right, it has gone clean through;" and sure enough, Bossy limped a very little that day, and was soon as well as ever. I know there was a great deal of faith mixed up with that poultice. Along in the early fall, we used to find wild fruit, such as choke cherries, service berries, and a little red berry called buffalo or squaw berries, all of which we enjoyed very much. One day I decided to have a reception that evening, so after we camped, I asked some of the girls and boys to come and spend the evening at our camp fire after their chores were done. Verbal invitations and short notice never gave offense then. All were delighted to come; no regrets. In the meantime, I had asked mother to let me make some buffalo berry pies. Of course, she did. Pies were a great luxury and were seldom seen on the plains. I wanted to surprise my guests with the sumptuousness of my refreshments; and I did. Well, I had hardly got the ox yokes and some other things artistically arranged before my company arrived. Not so fashionably late then as now. After we had chatted awhile and sung songs together, I excused myself to go into the pantry (a box under the wagon) and brought out my pies. In passing the pie, I rather apologetically remarked that they might not be quite sweet enough. One gallant young man spoke up very quickly, saying, "Oh, anything would be sweet made by those hands." And I believed him. After serving the company, I joined them with my piece of pie. Well, with the first mouthful — oh, my, how it set my teeth on edge, and tasted as if it had been sweetened with citric acid! That ended my pie making on the plains. I often wondered how my friends could have eaten it, but etiquette demanded it. I don't think there was enough sugar in the camp to have sweetened that pie. The best of all meals to me while on our journey was our midday luncheon. Mother used to make a kettle of corn meal mush in the morning, then she wrapped it up to keep it warm. After the milking was done, the milk was put in a tin churn and the churn was wrapped to keep it from slopping over. When we camped at noon to let the cattle feed, mother used to bring out the mush and milk. Why, it was too good for poor folks. Sister Phebe never liked it; she said it always made her so hungry. I never heard any one complain of a poor appetite while crossing the plains. Any kind of food was sweet except my pies. Bread and bacon was more delicious then than plum pudding or pound cake now. How environments change our tastes. The greatest hardship I passed through on our journey was on the day before we got to Laramie. The cattle were tired and foot-sore and the traveling was very hard, so father told us that morning we must all walk — no riding that day. I shall never forget that memorable walk — sand ankle deep to men and women and much deeper to the cattle and wagons. When we camped that night, we had traveled ten miles. I thought it was a thousand, and wished many times that day that I was where people didn't get tired. At last we came to the end of our long, tedious journey, and MARGARET GAY JUDD CLAWSON. 393 on the evening of October 15, 1849, we camped at the mouth of Emigration Canyon. Oh, what a glorious sight it was to look down the Valley of the Great Salt Lake! The next morning we were up bright and early, and soon drove down. In the meantime Brother and Sister George Stringhim, old friends and neighbors in Springfield, who came to the Valley the year before, sent word to my parents to come co dinner, and to camp on their lot. Never was invitation more gladly accepted. Their little two-roomed adobe house stood on the corner where the Kenyon hotel now stands. That dinner — can I ever forget it— never before nor snice have I tasted anything like it. I remember everything we had that day. There was a nice, juicy, fat beef pot-roast, baked squash, boiled potatoes, mashed turnips and boiled cabbage. It seemed very extravagant to have so many kinds of vegetables, but Sister Stringham wanted to give us a real treat, knowing that we had not eaten any kinds of vegetables since leaving home. They had raised the vegetables in their own garden that summer. Everything tasted as if it had been sweetened with sugar. It was a feast fit for the gods. I wonder how our fancy cooks now-a- (lays would like to get a full dinner in an open fire-place with wood for fuel and very few cooking utensils. That was the way we got our meals in those early days — no cook stoves then. In a very short time after we got into the Valley, Bro'cher Riley started for the gold mines. There was a large train being made up to go to California. They were going to take the -.outhern route that fall, as it was too late to cross the mountains. Mr. Pomroy, I think that was his name, offered to take men and boys through as teamsters. Brother Riley, with many others, got the gold fever. He coaxed and begged my parents to let hun go. Mother very reluctantly gave her consent. The morning he left, we were standing around the camp fire; mother was looking very sad. He picked up a frying pan and said: "Mother, when I come home, I will bring this full of gold." I wondered how mother could' be so downhearte d, when he was going to make us all rich so soon. Wise mother! Poor boy, he little knew what he would have to pass through before coming home. It was a very hard journey to the coast, under the best of circumstances, and in crossing the desert Riley's company had a great many animals die, and had to leave many of their wagons right there. Their provisions got scarce and short rations and walking were the order of the day. Sometime before they got over the desert the water gave out and their thirst was terrible. The last day on the desert several men gave out and could go no farther, but Riley, with others, struggled on, their tongues so dry, and parched they could hardly speak. At last they came to a stream of clear, running water. Some 394 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. older heads had cautioned the younger ones not to drink too much at first. What did Riley care for that advice. He laid down on the bank on his stomach nad drank, and drank, and drank, and when he tried to get up he could not. So he rolled over in the hot, burning sun and went to sleep, and when he awoke in two or three hours afterwards, he found the grass very wet all around him, and little rivulets of water running from all over his body. 'That saved him from the serious results of over-drinking. On arriving at San Bernardino, the teamsters were discharged. From there they had to make their way up to San Francisco as best they could, and from there to the gold mines. When Riley left the train he took his gun. Before he had walked many days, it grew as large as a cannon, so one day he threw it down by the roadside, and said he would rather be killed than carry it any longer. He must have been a sorry sight — not seventeen, very tall and bony, barefooted, clothes in rags, and his hat without a crown. On their way one day they stopped at a kind of eating house and found there was a looking glass, the first Riley had seen for months. He did not know himself. After that he no longer wondered why people laughed as he passed along. At last Riley got to the gold mines, and like thousands of others, he got gold and spent it. Being young and inexperienced, he did not know how to save. Mother waited and prayed for her boy to come back, for she was afraid he would get weaned away from home and never return. All our letters to him ran: "Riley, come home; never mind whether you have gold or not, you are just as welcome without." "Mother wants you home." In two years he came back, and instead of a frying pan full of gold, he and all his belongings were on a little bit of a pony, his feet nearly touching the ground. He had grown a great deal during that time. How glad we all were to have him with us again. Mother's joy, was boundless, for she had her little flock once more together where she could hover over them all Riley told us afterwards that he did not know how when he ever would have come back, had it not been for mother; he said he never dreamed or thought of her without seeing her with a sorrowful countenance — a very unusual expression for mother. It seemed to draw him back. I am sure it was her faith and prayers that did it. We had been camped about two or three weeks on the Stringham lot when my parents began looking for a shelter for winter. There had been quite a few mud roofed adobe houses built during that summer and the summer before. Great Salt Lake City had been surveyed and laid out in wards. Each ward was fenced in with poles and in going from one to another we had MARGARET GAY JUDD CLAW SON 395 to stop and let down the bars to pass through the gate. Of course, there were not as many wards then as now. After hunting days and days, father found a very small room owned by William Brown in the Fifteenth Ward. He had built a three-roomed house — a living room, bed room, and a little^ ten by ten kitchen with one door at the back, a small window in front, and a fire place. The Brown family (six in number) seemed to have more room than they needed, so they rented this back one to us. We were delighted to be so comfortably located. Our furniture consisted of a home-made bedstead — father made it. four parts made of poles, and it was corded with rope or raw hide, and with a straw bed and a feather bed on top of that, it was luxurious. Father, mother and baby George occupied that bed. The table was a chest, that we used for carrying our clothes in while crossing the plains, and was about four feet long and two feet wide, as near as I can remember. There were no trunks in those days. An old chair or two and a stool or two made up our furniture. When we had extra company we seated our guests on the bed and on the table. The cooking utensils were a bake kettle, a boiling kettle, and a spider. Mother always made such good bread and she baked it just to a turn. When she put me in charge of the cooking, the family all knew it for the bread was either burned or doughy. I never could get the knack of baking in those old iron-lidded bake kettles. Sister Phebe and myself had a bed room all to ourselves. It was our wagon box, set on the ground in the back yard. The winter of '49 and '50 was very cold and a great deal of snow fell. Many nights have we waded knee deep in snow to our little bed room. Mother made us just as comfortable as she could, but a straw bed on the floor of the wagon box and a canvas cover on the bows was not very inviting. We sometimes put a kettle of hot coals in the wagon to warm up to go to bed. It would be very pleasant for a while, but before morning, oh, my! Then there was a big dog who found us out, and insisted on sharing our bed with him, so we had to barricade the entrance to keep him but. Our greatest trials were when father used to go to the canyon for wood. He would sometimes go prepared to stay all night, thinking he could not get his load in one day; then mother would have sister Phebe and myself come in the house and sleep with her. Oh, how we did enjoy it. There was not another bed like it in all the world, we thought. After we had all got snuggled down in that nice, warm bed, and just got into the land of nod, all at once we would hear, "Whoa, haw! Buck, Whoa, Haw! Wright!" and then we knew that father had come home with his load of wood. Our pleasant dreams were dispelled by our getting up and going out into our own little bed room. We wished 396 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the canyon longer and the wood farther off, but with all these little uiconveniences we were a happy family. Our requirements in those days were not so many as now. Sociability prevailed. Then our dressmakers' and milliners' bills were very small. Socially and financially we were all on an equal footing in the very busy days. Afternoon visits and dancing parties were the rage and these were the only amusements. Everybody danced, the young and the old, especially the old who had never danced before. They did it with zeal and devotion. No poetry of motion was thought of nor did we indulge in the mazy waltz; just our quadrille dancing. Our ball dresses? Why, if we had a new calico once a year, and especially a gingham, we were delighted — all hand made by ourselves at home. In a few years the costumes and fashions of Babylon came here. How eagerly we followed them. Wheat flour was pretty scarce our first winter, so we often had to substitute buck-wheat flour. It seemed to be composed of grit and sand. How I did hate it, and do to this day. We had excellent meat. The old cattle that hauled the Saints over the plains on arriving here were turned out on the range, fatted up and they made good beef. While living in the little Brown room, mother sometimes had some of her old friends bring their knitting and spend the afternoon. Of course, she must have thought of it before or she could not have given them such a rare treat as she did. I have a faint recollection of the first course — think it was meat, potatoes, baked squash and a dish of stewed, dried peaches. These dried peaches were only brought out on great occasions. But when mother passed around the mince pie, oh, my, it was then, "Sister Judd, where did you get your ingredients; we have not tasted such pie since we left the States." Mother very modestly gave them her recipes. Beef was the foundation, mixed with pickled beets, chopped moderately fine, wild dried currants ground, cherries and service berries, native wild fruits, all well cooked before mixing, sweetened with the molasses which had been boiled down from the juice of the beets, seasoned with salt, pepper and ground allspice, chopped suet added to it give the required richness. The pie crust was shortened with beef drippings:not exactly puff paste, but it was delicious anyway. Who could have made such pies but mother! She was a good cook and excelled in many dishes. After her children had all left the home nest, they nor their children could ever drop in to see her without seeing some tempting little morsel brought out. The house we spent the winter in was located on First South and Second West, and is still standing (1905), with several additions added. The little room MARGARET GAY JUDD CLAWSON. 397 we lived in has been enlarged. I never pass it without the old time comes over me. In the spring of '50 we moved and camped on our own lot — an acre and a quarter (the regulation size), which father bought. It cost one dollar and a quarter; that was the price of lots then, located on Fourth West between First and Second South streets. Father built a board shanty for our living room, and two wagon boxes for our bed rooms. The shanty had three sides and an open front with a fire on the ground outside of the shanty to cook on. When it rained we had the full benefit and the horrid dust storms, if possible, were worse than the rain, with no place under cover. That summer father was getting material together to build in the fall. He made all the adobes himself, and bought the lumber by doing mason work for other people. When he started our one-room story and a half, mudcovered house, he was the mason and had two splendid helpers — sister Phebe and myself. We were the mortar mixers and adobe carriers, and father said we were as good as a great many hod carriers who had waited on him in the States. Of course, we couldn't carry as big loads, but we took great interest in our work and stuck to it manfully. We realized that when it was finished we would have a good, warm room in winter and a nice, cool one in summer. When our house was finished that fall we were very proud of it and felt that we were half owners in it, for hadn't we worked just as hard as father? After our day's work was done, we used to count the adobes to see how fast it was going up, and it seemefl to go awfully slow. However, as everything must have an end, our house got to the roofing point, and the hod carriers were discharged with thanks. The less said the better about the architectural beauties of that house. Suffice it to say, there was one good sized room below and one above in the half story; medium windows below and very small ones above; a mud roof — very good in dry weather — and when it rained and leaked, th^ • nothing to do but put on more mud. These roofs are much cooler than a single roof. The ceilinowas boards laid on the joists. Phebe and myself occupied the upstairs room; the entrance was outside up a ladder, and we became quite expert climbing that ladder. This was a great improvement on a wagon box bed room anyway. In a very few years father improved it by ceiling it over head above and below, and building a kitchen, with stairs to go up on the inside, and in a few years more built two wings. My parents had brought all kinds of seeds with them from the States from a locust tree to pepper grass. They planted a garden that spring. How we did revel in vegetables of all kinds that summer; especially do I remember the great, luscious watermelons. was I very fond of them, but sister Phebe seemed to have 398 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. an insatiable appetite for them, in fact, more than father thought was necessary, so surreptitiously she helped herself quite frequently. Between the house and the melons there was a corn patch. In that she would go and devour watermelons to her heart's content. Father often said that the boys were stealing the melons constantly and he could not catch them. In the fall, after the corn stalks were cut down, young melon vines were coming up all through the patch. It was a great mystery to father, but none to "Sissey," for she had planted the seeds and rinds after her marauding. The evidence of her guilt stared her in the face, but it didn't seem to trouble her conscience. I don't think she explained the mystery to father for a considerable time after. In those days we could have two free baths a week by taking a walk of two miles out to the Warm Springs. It was a large pool of warm sulphur water, flowing constantly out of the mountain. President Young made the rule that Tuesdays and Fridays should be women's days, and no "peeping Toms" were allowed near the place. The other days were the men's. The bathing was delightful. It was great fun for a lot of girls to go out there together to play and splash in the water for hours. The banks of the pool were our clressing rooms, without any kind of shelter. We have gone in winter in a sleigh and dressed in the same old outdoors room, with snow on the ground. Oh, my! didn't we dress quickly. Anyway, we did have bare ground to stand on, as the steam melted the snow quite a little distance around the spring. In those days, dry goods and groceries were very scarce, but merchants began hauling wagon loads of goods over the plains from the States. A few days before the train of goods arrived, word was sent in when it would be here, so everybody could be getting their gold dust ready. That was the exchange then. There was considerable dust brought here from California. After the train got in, and the goods opened, everybody outside was waiting when the door opened — and then what an awful rush! Domestic, bleached and unbleached, with calico brought a dollar a yard; cotton thread, twenty-five cents a spool, and only one of a family was allowed a certain amount. Many women used to get their neighbors to buy for them after their own amount was exhausted. Avery excusable mode of cheating. One day the word was passed around the city, that a wagon load of sugar wouUl soon be in, and mother made up her mind to have one pound of it, for that was all the merchants would sell to one family. When it arrived mother gave Sissey (that was what we called Phebe then) a dollar (one dollar a pound was the price) and a little two-quart tin pail. The store on Main Street was about two miles from home, and was situated in a little one-room log house with a front and back door. When she MARGARET GAY JUDD CLAWSON. 399 got to it there was the usual big crowd around the place, and when the doors were opened there was the usual rush. Sissey got into the jam and being young and slender was carried right through and nearly squeezed to death. When Sissey came home she was a sorry sight — her dress nearly torn off, her hat all jammed up and the tin pail mashed together, and not one ounce of sugar! Of course, we were disappointed, but mother cheerfully said, "It might have been worse." The first year is generally the hardest for newcomers. The year of '48 was called the cricket famine, and many suffered the pangs of hunger. That was the year before we came. There was a Norwegian family living near us. When asked what they had lived on, they said: well we lived off grass and veeds all summer." How eagerly the sego lily roots were dug and eaten to satisfy hunger. How soon we forget these discomforts when they are over! Had it not been for the sea gulls that came in great flocks and ate up the crickets, many people might have starved. But they saved the crops. The next famine came in '50. This one was called the grasshopper famine. The insects came in millions and ate up everything green. People had to fight them constantly. In the spring of '67 we had another siege of them. They came thicker than ever and seemed more voracious, for they stripped trees of all their foliage. The air was black with them. I don't remember whether it was at that time, or before, but all at once they flew up and over to Salt Lake and into Salt Lake and were drowned. Myriads of them were washed up in great banks for miles ind miles along the shore. How plain the hand of the Lord can be seen in their destruction. Mother was an indefatigable worker in the Relief Society of the Fifteenth Ward. In the winter of 1857, at the time of the Echo Canyon War, she voluntarily went through the ward getting contributions of warm clothing for the brethren who were in the mountains and sadly in need of them. She sat up many nights knitting woolen stockings to protect them from the inclemency ofthe weather. She gave her time and.vhat little means she could spare for their comfort. Father shared in the trials and hardships of the brethren at that time in protecting us from the invasion of the U.S. Army, who were sent here to subdue the people. The soldiers were kept out of the Territory until the next summer and when they did pass through Salt Lake City it was a deserted village — not one family was left in it, only a few men left who were detailed to burn up every house in case the soldiers attempted to make permanent quarters therein. In the meantime (in the early spring of 1858), President Young had sent messages to everv town north of Lehi to take 400 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. their families and all they owned and go south without any expectation of ever returning. Oh, what a sacrifice it was! After struggling to get a little home and a few little comforts around them, it was hard for the people to leave all for a dark, uncertain future. The Saints, scattered all through the settlements in the southern part of the Territory, did not know how soon tliey would also be told to start out again, and stop they knew not where. I can never forget that great eventful move south. Brother Riley was married and had a little one-room house in Lehi, so father and mother moved there. It is easily imagined what conveniences and comforts they enjoyed during their stay. President Young made arrangements for his family to move to Prove and had some board shanties put up for their use. Hiram Clawson, to whom I had been recently married, being in his employ, was given two little rooms and a covered wagon. It was the same old '49 bed-room for me. Well, after packing all of orr household belongings, the loads were sent down a day ahead of the family. Ellen, who was my husband's first wife, and her four children, myself and my three children were loaded into a three-seated spring wagon and arrived in Provo one spring day, after sundown. (To he continued.)