[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | August | Issue: 2 | Title: “OUR INLAND SEA.” | Author: Unknown]

“OUR INLAND SEA.”
	Alfred Lambourne’s new book with the
above title, is a study in nature and in lan-
guage as distinctive as its subject is from
ordinary common-place matters. Mr. Lam-
bourne is original in all that he undertakes
although some people maintain that orig-
nality is a myth, but if one admits there be
such a thing, he is certainly original in his
work.
	To attempt to give one an idea of the
book in a paragraph or two is quite impossi-
ble, it will bear reading over and over, and
the writer has not yet read it once consecu-
tively
	Our inland sea is a wonder in itself, it al-
ways has been a sort of a mystery and when
one explains its constituents and dissects it,
so to speak, it detracts from the mythical
charm that makes it, in a sense, poetical
and classical.
	Mr. Lambourne’s book is a classic.
Years hence it will be read with enthusiasm
by classical scholars of that wonderful day
in the future, we look forward to with such
laudable pride. The book ought to be in
every great library in the world.
	Ever since we came to Utah Great Salt
Lake has had an indescribable fascination
about it for some of us, that no other place
in these mountain fastnesses possesses, and
it is not very remarkable that it should
seem so, when one pauses and considers,
there is nothing like it, or even similar, in
this Western Hemisphere.
	But to return to the book, it is really a
poem. The author says it is paragraphs
from a diary (we had never yet heard of a
poetical diary). However, we must believe
what Mr. Lambourne says about his diary.
	The descriptions are viv[-]d, particularly so,
startling, even to one who has a powerful
imagination. If only we [-]ould have pre-
sented a copy to each of those distinguished
ladies who were entertained at Saltair rec-
ently, what a trophy it would have beer to
carry away from America.
	Dear America, has not yet filled its mis-
sion of wonders to the world, many [--]ings
are yet to come to pass, many hidden [--]hs
have already been unfolded by gre[---]d
wise men, many mysteries explaine[-],(but
this is wide of the mark) the book is the ob-
ject now under consideration. It is unique
in its descriptions of the beauty and grand-
eur of the dead sea, and its islands, but the
sea itself is greater than the book, and
makes one feel how incompetent man is to
reproduce with pen, or tongue, or brush that

[Column 2]
which God has made and formed and set in
its proper place. Yet we are glad of the
book, it is glorious to read such magnificent
descriptions, and one thrills with emotion
in contemplating some of the author’s glow-
ing symphonies of rhythmical beauty. And
yet we repeat, the dead sea itself with its
picturesque setting is impossible to put in
any book, by the greatest author, as we be-
hold it in all its phases and surroundings.
	We commend the book to the scholarly
men and women of the world, it is worth
more than double its money value, it is a
book that will outlive its contemporaries,
but the inland sea and its setting in these
mountain vales has been and is an inspira-
tion of inestimable value to those who be-
hold the infinite glory of the handiwork of
the Almighty, the Ruler and Author of the
universe.


[Column 1]
