Raveing Lundgren It is too early for rowan, Still, there is rue, ue has its charm. He heartsease died in the frost. The hesperis too, gather yarrow, bitter of leaf, Hardly friend of the barrens. Undismayed pioneer, nown to the tired of foot and heart, After your winter, you hail it comrade, leaf of good cheer. A leaf of 00d cheer, Bride's Wreath of yarrow—by chance [ found the charmful, oldfashioned thought. 
 The old wife made of it steepage for pain. When the world was new It had magic to find a friend. Or carry away from here to yonder, If mentioned with rue. And a fairy's cap. By yarrow and rue, name the place you would rather be, Over, beyond, away, and through, Name the place you would rather be, And be there too. Now the rowan tree works a wild, glad spell. Yellow trefoil, if worn Nightly on a believer's breast, brings dreams—for the wise to scorn. And lad's love has a proven power. And mistletoe. And thorn. A whitethorn torch for a new hearth-fire. They are not forlorn Who know trefoil and rowan tree and mistletoe and thorn. The ash tree's a northern mystic. A line of old wive's lore Keeps out malice and evil spite with dill hung over the door. Sesame, fern, and forget-me-not, hazel, and many more Weird sweet workers of witchery, the charmed heart names them o'er. Recorded in quaintest botany these, and as many more. But the bitter yarrow, the bitter rue, Tangful breaths that the young earth drew, Fairy's charm-leaf, old wive's brew, Showing no sweetness, they strangely woo The troubled of heart as no others do. CORRECTION Our October number published the story, "The Wages. Of Sin" with the authors name given as Lucy Guyman. Her married name of Bloomfield should have been added. | Morga Was weary and footsore h traveled far that day hrough endless stretches, SO it seeme » with never a habitat; 1 in sight Or some Teason or ot t his eo Panion Inking it strange that he had not heard the team Coming Elder Morgan 8tatefully accepted the offer and climbeq into ide the q iver, The elder thanked God for his help and eagerly accepted the invitation, For a few Moments the two Tode in Silence and then Elder ¥ wife and ] have been hoping and Praying that we might find a belief which Teally Satisfied oy, hungry Souls," saig Mr. Orbes, "Before the death Of our little son religion didn't mat. Ter much, We Seemed Merely to live without Siving it a thought," Sometimes takes Sorrow and €ven death to open our er. Y wife and 7 have been told by many," said Mr, Forbes, "that death ended Conscious existence, and that When we laid Our son to his last Test it was the end, [t did not seem reason_ 7 ohn where Christ Said: 'JT am the Tesurrection and the life, and whoSoever believeth in me, though he be dead, yet shall he live, and 
, whosoever liveth and believeth in me Shall never die.' The scriptures prove that there is a brighter and more glorious life to - Come after this one." "But how can a soul be saved after a person is dead?" asked r. Forbes, "I shall try to answer that question to your satisfaction," re. Plied Morgan, "Where was Christ during the three days that his body lay in the tomb?" "T don't know." "He was Preaching to the souls in Paradise, according to St, Peter, and Paradise does not mean heaven, but a place where The ride continued for a while in silence and then Mr, Forbes asked: "Are you a 'Mormon?' " "Ves," Stand?" Mr. Forbes drove in deep thought to the door of his farm house. As he kissed his wife and told her who the missionary sell the farm. In the meantime stay with us and tell us more about your wonderful religion,"