Jerusalem, the City of Cities. A ROMANCE OF TODAY. By Lula Greene Richards. Jerusalem, January, 1918. My Dear, Darling Grandmother: At home in your own peaceful, quiet, comfortable residence in one of the most blessed and favored portions of "the land of the free and the home of the brave," our own America, how can you realize  how is it possible for you to even try to imagine the horrors of the devastating war which is sweeping the World? Not that I have any desire to stir your gentle mind to even must be in concerning us and to acquaint you somewhat with our present prospects, this being my first opportunity for doing so, I write you briefly with hopeful cheer, although I must tell you of Uncle Simeon's brave death, of which doubtless you may not have heard. And this will seem in a sense a relief to you as it certainly, in a measure at least, removes the greatest obstacle that ever can be between your serene spirit and innocent happiness. And for your still further satisfaction I will tell you that although Uncle Simeon was an orthodox Jew he was not the hard, bad type you have supposed him to be. He was always nobly generous and exquisitely affectionate toward Aunt Martha. They unitedly assured me they have never seen a moment when they were not as tenderly careful of each other's feelings and comfort as they were the day she sacrificed everything else to become his wife. It is not strange when we see the whole circumstance that an ardent young man as he was should love so deeply a woman so divinely beautiful and exceptionally gifted as was my aunt. Nor that a man of such charming personality, such gigantic scholarly attainments and withal a soul so genuinely upright should have so completely won a maiden heart so guileless yet so highly appreciative as was hers. I hope, my blessed grandmother, that in the conviction of all this you will soon be exceedingly happy over again having your Christian child restored to you, although we all sorrow in the pitiful, violent death of Uncle Simeon. He saved my life and thereby lost his own. Coupled with the personal matters, I may give you a passing glimpse of the taking of Jerusalem by the British soldiers. To be sure you will have heard these glad tidings to the world long before this reaches you. But my reference to the event will be from a girl's point of view which you will appreciate if only because it is your little American girl that tells it. 
 First of all, General Allenby is the bravest and noblest of all men (except one other) that I have ever had the honor and pleasure of meeting away from my home land  the most humane, forgiving, tactful, merciful, and discreet. To me it is clear that this modern hero in the cause of right is helped by the same power with which Gideon and others were upheld anciently. Only think of Allenby's manly deliberation, his forbearance, keen-sightedness and wisdom in so managing his troops that Jerusalem, being entirely surrounded by them and cut off from communication with the outer world, was captured  rescued from the tyrannical Turks without his having to use a single military maneuver which might have brought into peril the hallowed buildings and approaches of the city. The great general and his men entered the sacred city in a calm and dignified manner, no part of the walls being thrown down, no vandalism allowed, not even one of the ancient gates was disturbed. Think how marvelous! We had read and heard with singular fascination of the brilliant seven weeks' campaign conducted by General Allenby. You too have doubtless read much of it, I will detail but little. On October 31, 1917, Beersheba was captured by the British; Gaza, on November 7; ten days later, November 17, Joppa was taken. It was on the 7th of December that General Allenby, still advancing, seized Hebron. A few hours later Bethlehem was left behind, and on the evening of the same day the City of Cities, Jerusalem, was entered and taken possession of by this wonderful general and his courageous soldiers without the firing of a single shot within the City or even in its outskirts. (I can imagine your younger grandsons clapping lustily when you read this account to them. And you are such a Bible student you will see each city I mention in your mind's eye as you read the name. Still you will be wondering what of your own American daughter and granddaughter, who were there, and I will tell you.) Uncle Simeon's home is one of the few respectable places still to be found in Jerusalem. Uncle, Aunt and myself stood outside the door talking of the near approach of General Allenby and his men when word was brought us by a crier that they were entering the City. Aunt preferred to remain there on the threshold but Uncle and I hastened to a knoll a few yards from the house the better to witness what was taking place. Everybody seemed to be of the same mind we were, and the streets in our neighborhood were full of people of every nationality under heaven, I think. I can never forget the vivid sensations I had at that time. Memories of historical events associated with the City of which I heard and read in my school days flashed through my mind like magic lantern views. For instance, I seemed to see how under JERUSALEM, THE CITY OF CITIES. 437 the reign of King Rehoboam who "feared not God," the Holy City was taken and pillaged by the King of Egypt. When King Amaziah reigned the city was taken by Jehoash, King of Israel  that is of the revolted tribes  the Temple was robbed of its gold and silver and a great part of the city defenses were thrown down. At other times there were devout kings who sought to expurgate and rebuild the sacred city. The great Nebuchadnezzar came and besieged Jerusalem for three years, its walls were razed, its palaces given to fire, its people carried away to a heathen and hated land. But strongest and best of all the impressions which memory revived in my mind at that eventful moment was the fact that Jesus the Redeemer of the world who was indeed a Jew, had walked those streets in mortal life, and I recalled Israel's promise that after the Jews had been scattered in all parts of the earth, after having paid the awful penalty for the most grievous of all offenses, disloyalty to God, the crucifixion of His Son, they should again be gathered, rebuild and reinhabit their city of cities  Jerusalem. Could this seizure of the city by the British armies mean an opening of the way? How much more significant of such a following was the masterly procedure of General Allenby than any war or seizure that had ever come to Jerusalem before. What wonderfully magnificent order we beheld in the directing of the conquering officers and the actions of their subordinates! Suddenly our attention was attracted to happenings near ourselves other than the marching and exploiting of those perfectly disciplined troops. "Mazzebah! Mazzebah! Mazzebah!" wailed an aged and decrepit Israelite close by us who appeared to be trying to get through the crowd of people to some certain place. "Poor soul! What does he mean?" I asked eagerly. A lady traveler who seemed to be able to interpret all languages and to answer all questions politely answered mine, "Mazzebah, the word he cries, means The Stone of Help," she said. "He is trying to push his way to the special stones of worship, the Wailing Place not far away, where all orthodox Jews go in times of trouble to weep and supplicate." I was about to ask another question when the dreadful tragedy occurred which cost my poor Uncle's life. A formidable looking Turk whom I had noticed on several different occasions eyeing me with fierce and undisguised interest leaped from somewhere striking the wailing Jew with such force and in such a manner that he was knocked to the ground apparently in a dying condition, but his moaning "Mazzebah! Mazzebah!" still went on. Like a circle of lightning the Turk 
 flung one arm around me whirling me off my feet and when Uncle Simeon bravely interfered in my defense, the wretch struck him down in a way that later caused his death, but not instantly. Then rushed to my rescue the "one other" I have mentioned, who is the bravest of all brave men (in my estimation). He shattered the Turk's arm that wielded the weapon and still the demon refused to release me until the noble English officer was forced to pierce him through with his sword and he dropped dead on the spot. As the Turk fell, my hero lifted me from his terrible grasp and placing Uncle Simeon and myself in the care of some of his soldiers he ordered them to conduct us immediately to our home. As we left the scene I saw my brave preserver lift the injured and still wailing Jew from the ground, and afterward he told me that he sent an escort to conduct the aged devotee to the Wall he was calling for, where he expired with smiling, reverent lips pressed to a superscription on the base of his beloved Mazzebah. Was not all this very grand and splendid of my hero? Aunt Martha is much like yourself, grandma, in the womanly and courageous way she meets misfortune. Uncle Simeon lingered between life and death for two weeks before he passed away, and his patient suffering and penitence I am convinced will atone for everything he could ever have been blamed for, even to the winning of Aunt Martha's heart so completely that she left you and grandpa and all that she loved beside for the sake of being with him. You know how I shrank from the thought of leaving you all. But I am glad and thankful that I accepted the government appointment which resulted in my being brought here and that I was privileged to be with my dear Aunt Martha when Uncle Simeon was taken from her. She heroically acknowledges the over-ruling Hand in it all. And oh, my dearest grandma! when I, a feeble worker in the great cause being championed for humanity's uplift, a most humble searcher after some of the lost sheep, am permitted to return home, your own stray lamb, your daughter Martha, my dear aunt, is coming with me. She will write you, by and by, but cannot yet. Sometime that "one other" who not only saved me from worse than death, but has ever since been exceedingly kind, doing all he could for our comfort and welfare, is coming to visit us in our own home with you. To father and mother I am writing the particulars of my special interests under another cover, but felt that just this belonged first of all to you, my sweet, lovely grandma.