5
EDITORIAL
Conference Recollections
HONEST, prayerful men and women met in recent conference assembled and heard not only the words of our absent Prophet and President but the admonitions and advice of President Grant's devoted counselors who carried the major burden of this conference. The Saints felt the unity of the presidency of the Church in purpose, will, wisdom and power. The words which were heard at the Tabernacle, on the Tabernacle grounds, and over radios in the homes struck a responsive chord in the hearts of thousands; and a feeling of peace and confidence in the strength of those who preside pervaded those minds who yearned to receive instruction and benefits. Mormonism has been termed a practical religion, and in President J. Reuben Clark, Jr's., address a summary of the topics mentioned would be sufficient to convince anyone that the spiritual life of the people of this Church is closely allied with the physical activity of its people. A balanced Church budget was reported with the suggestion that, "The First Presidency would like to urge every member of the Church to follow the example set by the Church and to live within his income"; the accomplishments of the Church welfare program were conveyed; the sharing of Church buildings by joint occupancy of two wards was commended; the support of the beautification program was urged; the province of the auxiliaries was announced as being under consideration; mention was made of the withdrawal of 697 individuals from the European missions in three months' time, and the duties of the Priesthood received particular stress. Several matters of interest in this address of pungent wisdom attracted particularly the attention of the women of the Church. The tribute paid womankind for her influence in comforting and nursing the Church in times past stimulated mingled emotions. Gratefulness for the privilege of serving in such a capacity was felt, and a feeling of self-respect for the type of service rendered was also present. The women of the Relief Society noted the following statement: "One of the principal, if not the main, purposes of the auxiliaries must be to help the parents to help their children, and this can only be effectively worked out through the home." If in the past this fundamental has ever been side-tracked to any extent in this organization, this Society resolves anew to not only build the women of the Church individually, but also to do all in its power to encourage the direct application of that which the women may have acquired to the further strengthening and building up of those in the home circle. The women of the Relief Society have been vitally concerned with the recent Church welfare program. They have unstintingly given of their time and effort in furthering this great cause. Now the time has come, and the call has been made for the utilization of the efforts of our predecessors in this Society in assisting with this present program in welfare activities of the Priesthood. President Clark told of the building of a large grain elevator as part of the program of Church welfare and then quoted from a letter written in 1918 concerning "the reinvesting of the Relief Society Wheat Fund." This letter was signed by the President of the Church, the Presiding Bishop of the Church and the President of the Relief Society, and the last two paragraphs said: "The money received for the wheat the government has taken must be kept in the banks and draw interest. In no case should it be loaned out or used for any purposes whatsoever other than the purchase of wheat, as it is a sacred trust fund which can be used only for the purpose for which it is donated.
 
"When the time comes to again invest this money in the purchase of wheat, you will be advised of it by the Presiding Bishopric and the General Board of Relief Society." President Clark then continued: "We are... re-investing the wheat money in wheat, and we aim to keep it re-invested in that way as part of the Church Welfare Plan. This move has the whole-hearted and complete approval of the Relief Society sisters, to whom as a matter of fact the fund belongs." Our souls were deeply stirred as the prophet of the Lord issued a call to sisters of the Church to preserve the chastity of the youth of the Church. President Clark further said: "Mothers in Israel, teach your sons to honor and revere, to protect to the last, pure womanhood; teach your daughters that their most priceless jewel is a clean, undefiled body; teach both sons and daughters that chastity is worth more than life itself." Even as the brethren were reminded that holding the Priesthood brings with it the obligation of instructing, encouraging and admonishing the people, so the women of the Church were charged with the responsibility of maintaining in the youth that "pearl of great price"—a clean body. Women of the Church are the logical guardians and teachers in this important duty, because they have known at what great cost a soul comes into the world; and they have known, too, the endless tasks demanded at their hands before manhood or womanhood has been reached. Who, more than they, have grieved when the progress of a life has been deterred? It is good to be reminded again of our burden and
EDITORIAL
obligation by a prophet of the Lord who is keenly alert to the inspiration of our Father. Women sense the prevailing factors which have a tendency to weaken even the strongest barriers they may try to build up in youth against unchastity. The use of the automobile and the consequent ease with which one can get away to isolated places, movies which excite the emotions, free association of the sexes with a decline in proper chaperonage, the widespread advertisement of alcohol, salacious literature which may be purchased at many news-stands, late hours at parties—all these are challenges awaiting the full use of our powers in meeting. Here is no simple task, but one demanding eternal vigilance, all the ability one possesses and, too, demanding a humility before the Lord with a seeking of Him often in prayer for guidance. This obligation must and shall be assumed; for with our belief in the eternity of the marriage covenant and the projection of the family into the eternities, every soul is most precious, and not one can be lost without serious consequences to the resultant happiness of that family. —D. D. S.