REMNANTS
There is magic in cloth remnants For the clever woman who sews; Instead of folded odds and ends, She sees her children's clothes.
There is magic in food remnants For the thrifty woman who cooks; She makes her own fine recipes, Which cannot be found in books.
There is magic in time remnants Which come at close of day, When each enjoys the luxury Of her favorite work or play.
—Ella J. Coulam.
 
Mormon Handicraft Department
MORMON HANDICRAFT AS AN OPPORTUNITY-MAKER Nellie O. Parker Member of General Board of Relief Society
MORMON HANDICRAFT was conceived in the desire to help others. The motivating objectives were: first, to create new avenues of employment by furnishing a market for fine handiwork; second, to encourage and foster the handicraft arts; and third, to utilize and to preserve the heritage of our people, the many skilled and talented artisans gathered from different lands. In states like Utah, with few large industries, employment must be created. It is recognized that the tourist trade is one of our greatest resources. Rather than importing articles to be sold and carried away again, our own people can make things that appeal to tourists. We should aim toward making distinctive articles of originality and fine workmanship, typical of our locality and our people. The records show that since the Shop opened its doors in the early summer of 1937, it has afforded opportunity for 2,500 people to sell their work, and $15,000 has been paid to them for it. The Shop is not yet self-supporting, which it must be if it is to be continued. The returns are very satisfactory during the tourist season, but more customers among our local people are needed to increase the volume of sales throughout the entire year. We solicit your help in this particular. Acquaint those in your community who buy lovely things with the variety of high-quality articles that can be procured at the Shop. Patronize it whenever possible. In the past, many stakes and wards have taken membership in the Shop, and we solicit their continued support of this worthy project. Try to make opportunities by encouraging and creating employment for your own stake people. Become aware of your own local resources and make use of them. One locality may have grass suitable for basket making; another, good clay for pottery, or petrified wood or native stones that polish beautifully. The field of developing these enterprises has scarcely been entered yet. The skilled craftsmen in your wards who do not need employment can teach those who do need the work. It would be a very commendable volunteer service.
We are endeavoring to keep the policies of the Shop very much as they have been. They are set forth in the following rules and regulations, as revised by the General Board, March 20, 1940:
1. The fee for membership in the Shop is $1.00 per year for an individual or for a stake or a ward Relief Society. However, individuals holding a current year's membership card in a ward Relief Society which has current membership in the Shop, may submit articles for sale through the Shop without further fee. Other individuals may enter articles for sale through
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
the Shop provided they hold current membership in the Shop. Ward Relief Societies are encouraged to become members of the Handicraft Shop for the benefit of their members who may desire to utilize the services of the Shop; stake Relief Societies will find membership desirable, particularly if the submittal and sale of articles is to be carried on as a stake board project. All membership fees are payable direct to the Mormon Handicraft Shop.
2. All articles for consignment to the Shop must first have been submitted to and approved by a stake committee (composed of stake and ward work-and-business leaders) as meeting established standards of workmanship and saleability. However, articles reordered by the Shop because of the demand for them may be sent direct to the Shop without submittal to the stake committee.
3. Before consignment to the Shop of articles approved by the stake committee, the stake committee must obtain permission from the Mormon Handicraft Shop to submit the proposed consignment in order to avoid overstocking some lines of merchandise.
4. All articles submitted for sale at the Shop must have price attached, to which 25% will be added by the Shop for overhead expense. The Shop, however, reserves the right at any time to equalize or reduce prices when necessary.
5. Articles will be carried in stock at the Shop for one year, or longer if considered saleable by the Shop, unless sold, or withdrawn earlier by consignor.
6. Articles submitted to the Shop for sale cannot be withdrawn by consignor until three months after date of entry.
7. In withdrawing articles, consignors must give the Shop three days notice and identify registry number of the articles to be withdrawn. Postage on articles which are returned to consignor by mail or express will be collected by the carrier upon delivery.
8. Any article received at the Shop which is not in good condition or which is not considered saleable by the Shop will be returned to consignor immediately.
9. Payments for articles sold are made on the 15th of the month following sale.
10. No person will be allowed to collect money for articles sold, or to withdraw articles from the Shop, without being identified as the consignor, or without verified written authorization from the consignor.
11. The Shop is not responsible for losses other than those covered by insurance against fire and theft.
HANDWORK WITH SALES APPEAL (A summary of comments which accompanied demonstration) Lucile Wallace Wolf Manager, Mormon Handicraft Shop
FIRST, I want to say that the Handicraft Shop will no longer handle foods for sale because of a law requiring physical and blood tests for all who prepare food for sale. There are three things that have been very much more saleable than all other entries at the Shop. One of the most saleable items has been hand-hammered, hand-etched copper. Utah has the greatest open-cut copper mine in the world, located in Bingham. These copper articles have sales appeal and local interest; they are reasonable in price and easy to carry. The second item that sells most readily is aprons. Some aprons have sales appeal and other aprons do not. Get the very best material you can and use good judgment in the color combinations. There is never a question of price with respect to exquisite aprons of organdy. We cannot supply the demand for a little zig-zag apron, which requires one hour to cut, ready for sewing. It is the material, style, and good color combinations that make it stunning. Other types of aprons which sell well are the exquisite white, blue, and pink pinafore, the peasant apron, and the dog-house apron, made for a man or boy in the family. The third largest seller is a pioneer doll. You will be interested to know that these pioneer dolls are not for sale anywhere else in the world, that doll collectors all over the United States are clamoring for them, and that up to March 21 we had handled 889 of them. These dolls are made by a woman who not only designs and makes the costumes, but the bodies as well. She makes several different types of dolls, including a western cowboy.
 
A mother and two sons thought of making little dogs of wool, and we have sold between 3,000 and 4,000 of them. The important things to remember when making and entering articles in the Shop are good material, good workmanship, right price, neatness, cleanliness, and good appearance. Things exquisitely done are always saleable if the material is good; do not do exquisite work on ordinary materials. Do not send soiled articles; if they have to be laundered, launder them, as we haven't the facilities for this. Articles which come in wrapped in cellophane are amply protected. Consult us often and come and see us whenever you are in Salt Lake, because it is your Shop.
WORK-AND-BUSINESS LEADER'S RESPONSIBILITY Mary Thomas Wasatch Stake Work Leader
THE women of Wasatch Stake have been very grateful for the Mormon Handicraft work of Relief Society. With the cooperation of the ward presidents and the work leaders we have been able to keep the standard of workmanship high. We have several women whose work is superior. Some of these women are widows, and there are others whose husbands are without work, and so we encourage them to enter their handwork regularly at the Mormon Handicraft Shop. We try to cooperate with the Shop in not overstocking on any items. All articles for entry are first taken to the ward leaders, who send on to the stake work leaders those articles which are found to be of good material and neat workmanship; in turn, the stake work leaders approve and send on to the Shop those articles which they find to be up to standard. Our women are learning not to bring in work unless it measures up to the requirements of material, cleanliness, practicability and originality; but we are careful not to give offense to those whose work is not acceptable. We feel that Mormon Handicraft has not only developed new avenues for employment for many who have special talents in different types of handwork and who need to supplement the family income, but that it has also helped us to retain some of the fine pioneer arts and crafts.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
Music Department
SINGING MOTHERS NEAR AND FAR Beatrice F. Stevens Member of General Board of Relief Society
IT is impossible to evaluate the worth of the contribution being made by our Singing Mothers. Not only has our own organization been greatly benefited, but many worshiping assemblies of the Church have been enriched by their beautiful singing. Their influence has raised musical standards and brought increased culture and joy to all who have listened. Through these choruses, hundreds of women have opportunity for self-expression and many have been encouraged to develop unsuspected talent. Today, in practically every stake and in many wards may be found a group of women singing worth while music. Their generous giving of time and effort is deeply appreciated. A movement so valuable and popular will continue to grow. With the winning of recognition comes responsibility of advancement. Let us improve the musical knowledge and tone quality of our groups, enlarge our repertoire, being sure to include fine hymns. Choristers and organists, better your own technique. We hope you have found the articles written by Professor Wade N. Stephens and published this last year in our Magazine to be helpful. Why not refer to them frequently? Extensive preparation for centennial celebrations is anticipated. We plan, also, to invite combined stake choruses to furnish music for our general conferences and trust this will add incentive and enthusiasm to your work. As plans progress, you will be advised. We offer our new Relief Society Song Book, hoping you may find interesting material in it. We also urge the use of the cantata, Resurrection Morning, which was written especially for Singing Mothers by B. Cecil Gates; its choruses may be used in different ways, as duets, trios, etc.
(Note: For information on the Song Book, see Relief Society Magazine, March, 1940, page 193; for a review of the cantata, Resurrection Morning, and directions for ordering, see the Magazine for February, 1940, page 113, and for March, 1940, page 194.)
MUSIC LEADERSHIP Alexander Schreiner, Tabernacle Organist
MUSIC is one of the most powerful allies of the Church. Upon those who direct music in the Church, therefore, rests a considerable responsibility, the most important part of which is to offer music that is fitting to the occasion. Any service conducted on the Sabbath day requires sacred music; this should be observed invariably. There is ample time and opportunity during the week for secular music, so let us be happy in singing sacred music to praise God on His day. When individual musicians are invited to participate in Sunday services, the invitation should specifically indicate that something sacred is desired. If they have no sacred numbers to offer, they may always use something out of the hymn book. There are two important kinds of sacred music—congregational music and choir music. Choir music is prepared music. The members of choirs are more or less trained. They have a leader who directs them, as for a concert. Emphasis is put on all the minute technical details, such as the observation of holds, rests, climaxes, and retards. A choir strives for musical perfection. On the other hand, congregational singing is quite another matter; it is a mode of worship. Here we should not strive for musical perfection, because it is the text rather than the music that is important. The words are sermons in miniature. They present our doctrine in poetry. Their contemplation stirs the heart to faithfulness. The music is secondary; it is only an accompaniment to the words, and musical details may be disregarded. The dictatorial technic of choir-directing has no place in the directing of congregational singing. To a degree, the congregation should be its own director, so that it may be free to absorb the meaning of the words. Worshipers do not come to church to prepare for a concert; they are not trained singers; they may not be eager to sing in parts; they are not interested in musical details; they have come to worship. They should not be hur-
 
ried or worried by the director but should be left free to express themselves in their own way. Tempos should always be comfortable. The director may assist the organist in setting the tempo when the introduction is played, but after the congregation starts to sing, never try to increase the speed. Really, a director should follow the congregation in the singing of a hymn. He leads out in directing a choir, but he follows in directing a congregation, for such singing is the "singing of the heart" and a prayer unto God. I believe that congregational singing is a more sacred exercise than concert or choir singing. Let us not spoil it by injecting the technic of concert or choir-directing.
The Church music committee is recommending that we have more congregational singing in our services, and that we use a greater variety of hymns. A sacrament service is quite perfect and complete with no music other than congregational hymns. In the hymn-singing project, which began in April, a different hymn is to be emphasized each month. In regard to congregational singing practice, if the hymn is known, merely encourage the congregation to give good attention to the words and to sing them with meaning; if the words are prayerful, sing prayerfully; if they are joyful, sing them with joy. Adjust the tempo accordingly. As a matter of fact, there is little need to practice well-known hymns. If the hymn is not known, frankly learn the tune line by line, but even here, keep the sense of the words uppermost. Sing with fervor, not too loud, not too fast, but always ardently.
Singing by women's choirs is pre-
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
pared music. It is here that musical details should be carefully worked out by the director so that music will be given life and expression. It is here that part-singing should be studied, and attention paid to attacks, climaxes, rests, holds and all technical details. Clear enunciation should be stressed. In singing it must even be exaggerated in order to be effective, for listening to singing without being able to understand the words is generally quite uninteresting. Conversely, the message of the choir may touch the listener's heart. At rehearsals, choirs should practice singing softly and with good balance of parts. The voice quality of a choir improves with softer singing, and if the singers will listen to each other while singing, they will improve the balance of parts. With regard to pitch, it is largely a matter of careful attention. A director cannot mention it too often, for singing in tune is really the first requisite. An excellent aid to singing on pitch is to sing without accompaniment. An instrument serves as a crutch for the choir to lean on. Without it the singers are automatically put on their mettle. They think better, hear better and sing better. As much as half of every rehearsal could well be spent without accompaniment. Soft singing is another aid in the matter of pitch. It enables the singers to hear the other parts and to harmonize consciously with them. Let us take pride in setting fine standards of music and worship in the Church. May we have sacred music on the Sabbath, may we have impressive congregational singing, and may our choirs take joy in fine musical presentations. Then music will make its proper contribution in the program of the Church.
A Presidents Breakfast
AT the presidents' breakfast, where 175 stake and mission presidents, and former and present members of the General Board assembled at the Lion House, the discussion centered about the three following questions:
1. Shall the General Board continue to outline topics for discussion for the work-and-business meeting (such as the current lessons in nutrition); if so, shall the use of these topics be optional or required?
2. How can we encourage visiting teachers to discuss the planned messages in the homes?
3. How can we encourage Relief Society members to read the lessons which appear in the Relief Society Magazine?
Three stake presidents spoke to the first question: Annie M. Farr of Smithfield Stake, Hannah M. Clyde of Kolob, and Ella P. Bennion of Oquirrh. They were unanimous in their opinion that the General Board should continue to outline topics for discussion at the work meeting, but indicated that the preference of most of the ward workers and other stake presidents whom they had consulted was that these outlines should continue to be optional rather than required. A plea was made for undivided attention while the discussion leader is making formal presentation of the topic, to be followed by conversation on the subject as the handwork proceeds. The importance of the work meeting was stressed, not only because of the sewing for the needy and the development of individual skills, but also because of the opportunity for informal visiting and sociability afforded at this particular meeting.
Question 2 was discussed by Radie O. Hyde and Ella M. Williams, presidents of Ensign and South Davis stakes, respectively. Mrs. Hyde stressed first the fundamental principle of visiting teachers realizing the dignity and importance of their calling, and second, the value of a capable leader for these visitors—one who is on a par with class leaders in other departments of Relief Society. Two activities which have improved the services of the visiting teachers in Ensign Stake were described: (1) The stake leader prepares and distributes to ward leaders each month a card bearing a scriptural quotation emphasizing the central theme of the teachers' message, and a question dealing with the practical application. For example, for the month when Giving was the topic, the quotation on the card was from II Cor. 9:7, and the question, "What may we do to contribute to the Church welfare program?" The lesson was supplemented by a visit of the stake and ward leaders to the regional bishops' storehouse and to the plant of the Deseret Industries. (2) Ward class leaders present their most difficult problems at union meeting; at a subsequent union meeting the situation involved and the suggested solution is dramatized.
Mrs. Bennion emphasized the importance of selecting as visiting teachers those women who are suited for this type of service, and carefully explaining to them their duties and
 
responsibilities. Realizing that a sufficient number of women qualified for this service is not always available, she said, "Relief Society is not solely for the highly educated and cultured, and those who have the ability to do things just as they ought to be done, but it is for all women, to help them in their development, and we have to use patience, kindness, and tolerance, and help them along the way." The following means of improving the teaching and assuring the discussion of the message in the homes were recommended:
1. Select teachers, insofar as possible, with more thought, through a personal interview by the president with each prospective teacher to ascertain ability, qualifications, and interest in Relief Society work, and to explain the Relief Society Magazine and attendance at Sacrament meetings.
2. Require teachers, each month before making their visits, to read all the lessons in the Magazine, and to study the families to be visited with the idea of referring to the lesson of most interest to each of them.
3. Appeal to the pride of the visiting teachers to do their work well, so that they may feel the stimulation and recompense of success.
4. Presidents should manifest more interest in the visits after they have been made.
5. Consistent follow-up of these suggestions by the president.
Charlotte Kay, president of Weber Stake Relief Society, spoke to the third question. Realizing that interest in and appreciation for the courses of study underlie the reading of the lessons by the members, she made several practical suggestions which are here summarized:
At the beginning of the season, the course of study should be presented with fluency and enthusiasm, and with RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE emphasis on the opportunities which it provides for the members. 2. During the work meeting the Magazine agent can give with value what is called a "commercial" on the radio, highlighting the current Magazine, and mentioning the forthcoming lessons. 3. Visiting teachers can refer to lessons for the coming month, often by asking a tactful question in the home, such as, "What do you think about this or that in the lesson?" Such an approach will appeal to a woman's pride and curiosity to such extent that she will read the lesson. 4. Credit on the roll for individuals reporting that the day's lesson has been read is another help which tends to stimulate lesson-reading by those who are not inclined to participate in the discussion. 5. Presentation of lesson material on special occasions in unusual or entertaining form, such asa skit or play or beautifully prepared talks, creates incentive not only  to read the lessons, but to study them. 6. The class leader is perhaps the most important factor in encouraging mem bers to read the lessons. Therefore, the class leader should have sincere ap preciation for the lesson material, the ability to inspire enthusiasm in others, and a positive character; she must, of course, do a certain amount of lecturing to give new information and_background, but a good leader will leave time for as much discussion as she can possibly draw from her class, remembering that there is little "impression without expression." Summaries of the talks by Ann P. Nibley, Relief Society president of Northwestern States Mission, and Lottie Fullmer, president of Pioneer Stake Relief Society, also given at the breakfast, appear with the proceedings of membership and social welfare departments, respectively. ) General Session—Forenoon MISSIONARY TRAINING IN THE HOME Ida D. Rees Former Relief Society President of East German Mission MORMONISM is a way of life— a way that provides valuable preparation for those sent out into the world as missionaries by the Church. Let us review the course of this way of life in a Mormon home. There is always rejoicing at the advent of a child; he grows up with the feeling that he is precious in the sight of the Lord. The first big event in his young life is his formal presentation before the ward when he is given a name and a blessing. As soon as the little fellow can lisp, he is taught a simple prayer. His baptism at eight years is another impressive occasion, when he realizes what it means to be permitted to enter into the Church of God. At twelve he is ordained a deacon, not in an indifferent and routine way, but as an event of consequence: he now bears the Priesthood of God. Then comes the occasion of his first public prayer, his first Church talk or passing of the Sacrament. If the youngster comes home from Sunday School exclaiming, "Mother, I'm to pass the Sacrament tonight," and the mother merely says, "Are you?" and turns back to her book, that reception can easily mean that Church duties to this eager lad will 326 henceforth be a closed book. On the other hand, when the mother exhibits enthusiastic interest, when she hurries to tell the rest of the family of the honor, when she sees to it that the boy is properly groomed—a new tie perhaps or a flower in his lapel—then what an unforgettable occasion it has become to him! This is the boy who is later to deliver a message to the world, the boy who must be equipped with a knowledge and understanding of the glories and beauties of the Gospel plan. We as parents do not realize the amazing lack of information displayed by too many of our missionaries concerning the nature and meaning of the very message and the warning they are to deliver. 'True, we have auxiliary organizations in the Church that are playing an important part in offering that education, but it is the influence of the home that must be made to play the major role. Organizations may supplement, but they cannot supplant the Mormon home. Ours is the responsibility during those precious formative years to clothe our sons and daughters in the robes of knowledge, light and understanding. In the stress of daily affairs we too often thoughtlessly evade or delay that obligation, with the result that the missionary, after arrival in his field of labor, is compelled to spend many precious weeks to provide himself with the necessary background, to inform himself so as to be able to present the Gospel intelligently, fervently, convincingly. In connection with this home training, he should be taught throughout his youth the value of his time. Missionaries are equal in one respect: each one has 24 hours in  his day. Fortunate is the one who has learned to budget his time at home, who in a practical way has caught the inspiration of a full day, well utilized. It is easily discernible which boy has developed resourcefulness at home, who has learned to be a leader and not a leaner, the one who is a self-starter. Self-help stands out everywhere in the doctrines of the Church and in the pursuit of salvation. The home is the training ground for the development of that wholesome point of view. In the mission field the procrastinator, the sluggard, the omnivorous reader, the ease-seeker, the late sleeper, is a disappointment to his parents, an aggravation to himself, a headache to the president, and a stumbling block to the Saints. But the prepared missionary at the very outset plunges into his work with zeal and understanding—an inspiration to his companions, a joy to the Saints, a stimulation to investigators, a pride to the Church. The average missionary while at home, has first-hand information on the working of the Sunday School, Primary and Mutual. But what does he know about our Relief Society? Little, indeed! And yet he will discover in the mission that the Relief Society is the backbone of the branch in which he labors. Then why not give our boys an opportunity occasionally while at home to attend our regular Relief Society sessions so that they may get a picture firsthand of the dignity and dispatch with which our meetings are conducted, an idea of the scope of our educational program and the many ramifications of our social service work? Think what that would mean RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE to them when they are called upon to promote the growth and development of the work assigned them in their missionary labors! We are sending our young men and women out to battle with ignorance, indifference, intolerance— three deadly enemies. Surely, the 327 home, the Mormon home, will accept the responsibility to see to it that these boys are provided with the trumpet of warning, the sharp sword of testimony, the breastplate of faith, and the helmet of knowledge, as they go out as crusaders in the service of the Lord! MISSIONARIES—CHARACTERISTICS IN MISSION Claire T. Murdock Former Relief Society President of Netherlands Mission ONE of the greatest sources of joy in our mission work was association with our missionaries—youtr sons and daughters. As one large mission family, we learned to know and understand each other and feel each other's joys and sorrows. To watch the growth and development of these young men and women, to feel their humble and sincere spirits, and to hear their fervent testimonies of the divinity of the work was indeed an inspiration. Every missionary has problems to confront at the beginning of his work in the mission field. He has to leave the life he has known at home, forget self almost entirely, and devote himself to the work of the Lord. At the close of their missions, our missionaries wrote what they called their "last will and testament," setting forth the adjustments they had had to make, the problems they had met, and their suggestions to new missionaries coming into the field. I quote excerpts from the "Jast will and testament" of one of our missionaries, Elder Frank Jex, hoping that it may prove helpful to you who have missionaries in the field: "As a boy I cherished the thought that a mission necessarily meant unreserved and complete devotion to the Lord in His work during the entire period concerned, and that this situation was quite miraculously brought about by the elder's entrance into the mission field regardless of his personal effort." During the first few months of his mission, this boy was very unhappy, always looking toward the future hoping that a change would come about. He felt if he had a different companion, if he could be changed to another branch, he would get that fine missionary spirit he was expecting. He was given a new companion, he was transferred to another branch, but he still felt that downcast spirit. He finally realized that his own attitude was wrong, that he himself must try to work hard to gain a testimony and the spirit he was looking for. With this changed viewpoint, he said, "I would list first and foremost as items of importance an increased definiteness of purpose in my work, a definite study plan and an increased effort to conform to the same." How easy it is to let the day slip by without accomplishing anything. For 328 instance, they might get up in the morning and feel that today they must write a letter, or go down and have their shoes repaired, and so forth, but soon the day is gone and nothing is accomplished. If a missionary will make every effort to conform to a regular schedule, it will help him to fulfill his purpose and keep happy. "I would seek more frequently and earnestly for help and guidance, and attempt to be more earnest and humble that the avenue of inspiration might be more accessible." We all realize the power of a sincere and humble prayer, and we know that no missionary can be successful without the help of the Lord, and this necessitates frequent and fervent prayer. "I would strive to be much less
 
frivolous, trying to keep in mind the holiness of my calling. I would hope to spend less effort being a good fellow, and more effort being a true minister of the Gospel. I would be dignified, reserved, and careful enough so that I could act as a spiritual advisor to the branch members." I cannot stress this point of dignity too much. So many heartaches and troubles could be spared if every missionary would keep foremost in his mind the sacredness of his calling, and at all times remain dignified in his work. Proper attitude, definiteness of purpose in work, continued study, a regular schedule, and dignity in work, are some of the important items toward making a successful missionary.
PROBLEMS A MISSIONARY HAS TO FACE IN A WARRING NATION Martha S. Toronto Former Relief Society President of Czechoslovak Mission
BRIEFLY, I am going to tell you a few of the problems that confront a missionary in a nation that is constantly under the shadow of war. In my mission we were closer to it perhaps than any of the other missions in Europe. I know that in the audience today there are many women who have had sons in Europe during these last troublesome times, and I want to tell you that I admire you for having such fine sons. The development and the progress they have made is astounding, as I am sure you can see with your own eyes when they come home. During our entire stay of three and a half years in Czechoslovakia we were confronted with war. When we first went, Italy was at war in Abyssinia; then war struck Spain, then China, then Austria, then our own little country of Czechoslovakia. It was a hard thing to battle against, because we had no weapons. In the small space of one and a half years our little country mobilized four times, and we were forced to flee twice. The first time we found refuge in the towering peaks of the Alps in peaceful Switzerland, although at that time it did not seem so peaceful. We stayed away from Czechoslovakia for some months,
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
and after the temporary Munich Pact we went back again and tried to pick up the loose ends of the work we had tried to build up, and I cannot tell you how loose those ends were. People who are terrified, who are constantly waiting for something to happen to them and their country, are not in much of a mood for religion. The missionaries when tracting would have doors opened to them wide if they would talk politics, which, of course, was very unwise, and it was not done, but their Gospel message fell on deaf ears. After looking at a republic like ours is here, and then at a dictatorship, I can tell you the difference is as marked as day is from night. We were not able to hold public meetings of any sort; the missionaries could tract but very little. Then, of course, we had to leave finally, and that leaving was hard—I think harder for the missionaries than any part of their mission experience—but it had to be done. It is interesting to observe that most of the missionaries, if not all of them, had been promised in their patriarchal blessings that they would go in peace and come home in safety. They did go in peace, but peace was not reigning when they left Europe, but they came safely home—almost seven hundred of them. The missionaries and myself and my family have been faced with danger and almost death more than once. We are thankful that we have been led by the hand of God out of danger and into safety.
THE VALUE OF THE WOMAN MISSIONARY; THE MISSION MOTHER Zina C. Brown Former Relief Society President of British Mission
THE woman missionary is the "bearer of the word" just as the elder is. She tracts from door to door, gaining admission at times where the elder has been unable to enter. She goes on Sunday circuit to fill her speaking engagements the same as her brother missionary. She assists in the holding of street and cottage meetings, bearing a testimony so humble and sincere in its fervency, that every heart is touched. Her value is great and her influence far-reaching. Most of these girls are seasoned in the work of one or more of our auxiliary organizations, and it is here that their light surely shines. Go into any branch of the mission after a pair of women missionaries has labored there a few months, or even weeks, the organizations have taken on new life, the zest for the work has increased. Girls' choruses spring up under their leadership; Primary organizations come into being where there were none; membership in the organizations has increased; in the Relief Society, the lessons take on more color and new meaning as these enthusiastic young women respond as class leaders. The auxiliaries are real proselyting agencies. In one organization in Ireland fourteen girls were converted in one season, most of them being baptized at the same service; their place of conversion—the M. I. A. These girls work shoulder to shoulder with the elders in sharing responsibility. It puts the elder on his mettle when he knows he is to speak on the same program with his sister missionary. Naturally this plan is equally stimulating to the sister. Even in daily class, this friendly rivalry adds a new impetus to preparation. These young women are the representatives of the mission mother, for each of them is a member of one or more of the mission boards. Through these mission daughters the mission mother is enabled to keep in closer touch with the auxiliary work being done in the field. The wife of the mission president is set apart as the president of the Relief Society of her mission, and as adviser to the other women's auxiliaries. In addition to this, she is her husband's missionary companion, traveling with him over the entire mission as he holds the various district conferences. She also at-
 
tends with him the elders' meetings and conferences. As head of the Relief Society of the mission, she finds herself facing a stupendous responsibility. She is looked up to as an example to all the people of the mission. She is setting standards for their home life, and is looked to for help in solving problems, and in giving spiritual uplift. Not in our own strength alone do we meet these situations. The dearest associations of the mission field were our contacts with your sons and daughters—our missionaries. We love these noble young men as our own sons and these young women as our own daughters. We were privileged to share their joys and sorrows. Bereavement came to quite a number of the missionaries, even the passing of mothers and fathers. The perfect faith of these young people in the face of such loss made us humble indeed and even more grateful for the strength found in obedience to the Gospel teachings. The spiritual and mental growth of the missionaries was the source of our greatest joy. God blessed their efforts and through them many came to a knowledge of the Gospel.
ADJUSTMENT AFTER THE MISSION Norma S. Evans Former Relief Society President of French Mission
IN the mission field there is always a good deal of banter among the boys about "sitting on their trunks," but as a matter of fact, I have yet to see the first missionary about to be released who did not express himself as regretting that his time was so near. A good part of that reluctance to return home is because he feels that his usefulness is at its very peak. He has learned the language, if his mission is a foreign one, and is beginning to see the fruits of all his earlier struggles. He has learn-
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
ed to love the humble and devout members and friends who have accepted him almost as a son, and he is not sure that he will ever be able to see them again. Small wonder, then, if all at once, he is swept with regret at having to leave all this behind. But there is still another reason for him to dread the return home, aside, even, from the inevitable home-coming speech which has been hanging over him for some time before his release. I mean the adjustment which he will be called upon to make when he again tries to become a part of his own community. We may say that a mission is the grandest experience that can enter the life of a young man or woman, and yet, many times, that very experience has served to throw him out of adjustment with the people and conditions which face him on his return. He has been devoting every waking hour, supposedly, for two or more years, toward building up ideals and standards, toward teaching them and trying earnestly to live up to them himself. He comes home only to find that if he talks and acts in strict conformity with those same principles he will be set apart from and even shunned by many of his former companions who think they have found that the quickest avenue to popularity is to be a "good sport," and who have gone to surprising lengths to appear tolerant and liberal. This is the time in a boy's life when to be thought pious or straight-laced is a greater stigma than to be found drunk or stealing. Somehow it is not comfortable to feel out of harmony with his former chums who cannot possibly see eye to eye with his noble intentions, and the struggle begins within him to decide just how far he needs to bend over backwards in this effort toward uplifting, at the expense of being a "wet blanket" among his former companions. If, then, he decides that the only hope for adjustment lies in being "like the rest," he makes an effort to prove that his mission did not take away any of his independence or manhood, and he may even take an occasional smoke or drink, in which case he merits the volley of disapproval from his elders. If, instead of just criticism and rebuke, we would only reach out a little and help these boys! It is the time when they will work most enthusiastically and earnestly in some ward capacity or Scout position. Don't we have an obligation to try to give them something worth while and stimulating to offset the void of finding most of their former associates married or away at school? We should impress upon them the significance of the slogan "once a missionary, always a missionary." The transition into ordinary life again would not be impeded by their keeping in touch by letter or card with those devoted members in the mission whose hearts would be gladdened to know they are not forgotten. It takes so little time and money to send an occasional greeting, and it is a definite reflection on many of our boys that they forget these small attentions. There are other problems which face the home-comer. Take, for example, the doubtful tragedy of the fellow whose girl did not wait for him, or even the doubtful blessing of the fellow whose girl did wait. His years in the mission field have de-
veloped him in so many ways that the girl cannot possibly have kept pace with. She may have worked hard against this very contingency. If she is smart, she will have made as much progress as he has, but it could not have been along the same lines, and try as she might, there will be many differences to iron out before complete harmony can be restored between them. Parents who have made extreme sacrifice in keeping their son on a mission believe their obligation is discharged and that the boy should find work immediately so as to help lift their burden. This attitude is only natural, but they should realize that no boy who is ashamed of his appearance stands much chance of impressing any employer. They should, if at all possible, make that one extra effort to fit their son out in clothes that give him a feeling of self-respect, so necessary to the success of any undertaking. In some few cases the boy's old job is waiting for him, and many of his biggest problems are solved, but this is the exception and not the rule. Some employers even feel that a boy is lazy and spoiled after two or more years of receiving a regular allowance and accepting food and shelter from friends and members away from home, in return for preaching the Gospel—which the employers feel is a small effort. Then, too, in spite of how fine a missionary a boy has made, the employer may logically prefer to favor someone with actual college education, the kind of education the missionary may have sacrificed for his mission. For the young man who does not have to find work, but can enter college, there are equal handicaps.
 
His former classmates are now two years ahead or have graduated. This means forming new contacts among younger groups, and even though his intense religious study and continual meeting of new people have better fitted him to assimilate his studies, he is still conscious of being behind in actual college training. He is an older boy thrown with younger activities. The kind of thing he used to think was fun now seems to him dull and juvenile, and even in cases where his family can well afford to continue his college education, his own interest has lagged to the extent that he is tempted to give the whole thing up. Time, of course, is the great healer and adjuster of all things, but to the impetuous youth that is small comfort, and many a boy is made to suffer needlessly through our lack of understanding and cooperation. This may not be a community project, but we might, as individuals, feel a greater responsibility toward these young men and women upon their arrival home. All the stress need not be placed on their great duty to repay their debt to their parents. We parents have had some of the rewards of our sacrifices in the splendid records made by these young people, and have shared in the reflected glory of their achievements. We have had the satisfaction of knowing that our children were engaged in doing the work of the Lord, and would be blessed and protected in proportion to their investment of time and effort in that unselfish labor. We have realized big dividends in their frequent letters home, and in the assurance that their individual testimonies were being strengthened
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
with every hour of work and study. So, if it appears to us that a boy is swaying too far in one direction, either in pressing his religious beliefs, or, on the other hand, too noticeably straying from them, let us remember that he is experiencing a difficult transition and that he is just as eager to be well adjusted and well thought of as we are to have him so, and that, given understanding and half a chance, he will work out his own reconstruction problems. His mission will influence his entire future, and will remain for him always the most priceless and beautiful experience of his life.
RESPONSIBILITY OF RELIEF SOCIETY IN EUROPE TODAY Evelyn N. Wood Former Relief Society President of West German Mission
THERE is a German hymn that says: "Work for the night is coming, Start when the day is young, Work until the night comes, When man can work no more." Now the time for work is over; but after that darkness of night, may there be a dawn that is bright and shining, and a chance to do another day's work over there. And now it is evening. For the first time in 102 years since the Gospel was first taken to Europe, all the missionaries have gone. We have left behind 30,000 Saints, of which number 15,000 speak German. We took trains, and with a little red passbook were allowed to ride securely out of trouble, hardship and disaster, and left our friends behind. In Germany, most of our men have been taken into the army, even one dear brother, with thick, thick glasses. He didn't want to fight. The tears came to his eyes as he said how he hated guns and war. We left the work for 1940 all printed and in the hands of the Saints. Every district and branch Relief Society was organized with instructions for emergency. The district superintendent from Nuremberg said that most of the meetings were under the direction of the Relief Society, and were well attended. Our sisters of the Relief Society can step in and hold the branches together, as they did earlier in the World War. We had the privilege to go to Austria and visit the members there in a small town where there are only Mormons and Catholics. Our branch president was injured in a well cave-in, and his back was badly wrenched. He was in terrific pain for five weeks, and could not move. When he saw us, he asked to be administered to. He said he was coming to church on a stretcher, and after church was going to walk out. I suggested that it might not be wise, as he might hurt himself more. I shall never forget the look in those soft, brown eyes as he said, "I am sorry that you feel that way, but it can be done without your faith." He taught me a lesson. During the meeting his face was radiant, and after the meeting he carefully arose and walked out across the street, and his broken back was instantly healed. I bear you my testimony that the Lord will not forsake people like that no matter which country they live in. I do not know how they will manage everything, but I have no doubt that with their faith they will be guided and blessed. We had many wonderful experiences in Germany that convinced us that the Lord is vitally interested in the missionary work. I was promised in my blessing that I should have
 
the special gift of understanding the German language. Shortly after our arrival in Germany, I was sitting in a district union meeting in Hamburg when I realized that I was understanding what was being said. A month later at a meeting of the Relief Society in Ruhr District, I realized that I was understanding every word that was being said, and for two and one-half hours we were able to speak back and forth in German. It was truly a gift from the Lord.
THE PART MUSIC PLAYS IN THE MISSION Virginia B. Larson Former Relief Society President of Swedish Mission
MY report today is intended to cover missionary chorus work as a factor in the spreading of the Gospel. The meager results being attained by the customary missionary methods challenged us to find more productive ways and means of reaching the hearts of the Swedish people. The most promising way seemed to be through activity. Having read of the success of choruses in England and other missions, we determined to give that method a try. We built our chorus around a quartet which became unexpectedly popular in Stockholm by its appearance in television. Most of them had never sung in a chorus before, but they had the true missionary spirit and trained faithfully every day until they learned the art of singing together. Before they were finally disbanded, they had learned from memory over fifty songs. The chorus was a particularly fortunate method of missionary work, because the Swedish people liked Americans and their music; whether the American Harmony Singers, as they were known, sang folk songs or negro spirituals, or cowboy ballads, they were equally well received. They added to their American repertoire a number of Swedish favorites, including folk songs and religious numbers. Thus equipped, they were ready for action. Their first appearances were in hospitals, schools, old-folks' homes and churches. Later, they responded to invitations from such organizations as the Scouts, various students' clubs, business men's clubs, and to more formal groups such as the Swedish American Society and the Wasa Order. The appearance of the quartet in television and later in Stockholm's Concert Hall paved the way for
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
their first radio broadcast—and it was the chorus' unusual privilege to appear regularly thereafter over a nationwide hook-up once a month, with their own half-hour program. Before the war cut their activity short, they were becoming a well-known institution in Sweden; as an example, they were invited by the Swedish-American Club to sing at the reception given for Pearl Buck, who came to Stockholm to receive the Nobel Prize. Then later, they were asked to furnish the music for two international meets where people from every country were present, and they had to be introduced in several languages. The chorus played an important part in our last conference tour. They presented formal programs in the concert halls of Sweden's four largest cities and less formal concerts in connection with every conference which was held. This form of Mormon publicity proved so favorable that attendance at these meetings increased many fold over anything that we had experienced before. The effect of the concert program was also seen upon the missionaries themselves, for there is value in the constant challenge to do one's best. It was a thrill to see how the elders worked together in this project which they could see was achieving results in an ever-widening circle of friends and acquaintances who were becoming interested in them and their message. They were self-disciplined and self-starters. They did not forget in whose service they were engaged. Never did they make a public appearance without having first met privately in prayer. They were helped also by every other el-
der in the field, who made it his responsibility to advertise and to encourage the chorus members. The Swedish Saints, who were at first a bit dubious about the activity method, caught the enthusiasm and soon were giving approval and cooperation. It was not long before they began to be chorus-minded and were organizing themselves into effective singing units in various parts of the mission. The chorus in Gothenburg gave a splendid concert in connection with a missionary quartet which was working there, and other groups were working to give recitals with the chorus when it came to their branches. There is now, in Stockholm, a chorus of young voices about forty in all, who are doing fine work in keeping up the spirits of the Saints and friends. Over a third of these are a direct result of the missionary activity method, having been baptized into the Church during the last summer. Relief Societies furnished singing groups for one session of each of our last district conferences, using, besides Swedish songs, some Relief Society numbers which they had translated. One Hundred Thousand Strong was a favorite. When we left, they were talking of getting white blouses so that they would look like Singing Mothers in other parts of the world. Newspapers responded favorably to the American Harmony Singers. Critics commented on their discipline and their singing together, their naturalness and good humor and how they had caught the fancy of the Swedish people. Some noticed their general attitude, saying that if all young people in Salt Lake City were as happy and at peace with the world as these young men seemed to be, then in that place the problem of living must be small indeed. Thus the chorus became a very important factor in the missionary activity of the Swedish Mission. It won hundreds of new friends for the Church each month over the radio, and it broke down prejudice and opened the doors to the missionaries in every city where they were located. Where we had been content to preach to a few score in our own little chapels, with the chorus we had to hire large halls to accommodate the hundreds who came. They won more favorable publicity through the press for the Church
 
than we had even dared to hope for. Everywhere these Mormon boys were referred to in cordial and favorable terms, and music proved to be a most powerful agent in winning the hearts of the Swedish people. It was my privilege to lead this chorus, and I am indeed grateful for it. Some of the members are now released, and others are working in widely separated places in America, and some, I am happy to say, are still singing. Only the other day we received a report from two of them who are together forming a part of the Eastern States Mission Quartet.
LAST-MINUTE OBSERVATIONS AND EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE Fawn B. McKay Former Relief Society President of East German Mission
FOR the past two and a half years it has been an interesting privilege to work in the midst of some of the oldest and most cultured nations of the world, which now are forced into conflicts resulting in complete annihilation of nationalities. The outlook is for a long-drawn-out war. From the beginning, tension and anxiety have predominated. As time went on, despair turned into hope and hope into despair, until finally the tension and anxiety became a reality, and war was declared September 3, 1939. Evacuations have been among the most tragic of situations. Some cities have been compelled to double their populations and become "their brothers' keepers." This condition has been somewhat alleviated, but evacuation from strategic points still predominates. These warring nations, through the media that allow extensive and effective propagation of propaganda, continually build their peoples up to the need of the hour. This audience of women today causes me to reflect upon an unseen, unheard, and unassembled body of women in Europe today, which is engaged in the cause of service. All must do their duty as faithfully as the men at the front. These women are to be found working diligently in the home, the field, the shop, the railroads, the factories, and in the hospital service; if the necessity arises, they will take the places now occupied by men. I speak mainly from observation in Switzerland,
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
wherein exists, I believe, greater efficiency than in other nations, yet is exemplary of women's service in other nations. Today in Switzerland, two thousand women are actively engaged in service, and there is a registration of 160,000 who are ready for an immediate call for action. The women's service divisions consist of: the Girl Scouts, whose duty it is to do the little "good turns"; the Good Samaritans, who train and act in the hospitals; the Air Raid Division, which assists in the homes in case of bombings and gas attacks with resulting fires; the Field Division, which drives ambulances and takes care of the wounded from the battlefield. The Swiss claim proudly the founding of the Red Cross. This occurred in Geneva, Switzerland, August 22, 1864, when the representatives of twelve nations signed the Red Cross treaty setting forth the humanitarian principles of the organization. A nation so small as Switzerland requires an efficient and a large army which costs about a million dollars a day to operate. Per capita, Switzerland has the largest army in the world. All men to the age of forty-five must serve. After military training, each man is allowed to retain his military equipment in his home; thus originates the saying, "Every Swiss home an armory." All that can be done to maintain the morale of the people is emphasized. Extras are not allowed to be printed, and severe and tragic news reels are curtailed. Freedom is the aim of the Swiss people, and they will fight to the finish, bearing forever in mind such slogans as, "We flee not, we die," "Our souls to God, our bodies to our enemies," and "One for all, all for one." They tremble at this war so close to their doors, and despairingly, yet hopefully, go on. One of our members, who formerly worked in a watch factory which was turned into a munitions plant shortly after war was declared, said: "I quit my job last night; I cannot pray at night for peace and work the following day on munitions." One cannot help but regard the consistency of her decision. The Relief Societies still function very well, and assist in whatever way they possibly can toward all conditions which present themselves. From the towering Alps to the calm waters of the Mediterranean, across the turbulent waters of the Atlantic, to the welcome of the Goddess of Liberty we came. After crossing the vast plains, enjoying the mystic beauties of the Carlsbad Caverns, looking into the depths of the Grand Canyon and up to the ethereal blue from the vast and colorful cliffs of Zion Canyon, crossing the deserts into the Rockies, I reflected and thought, "God has indeed made a beautiful world for us, even if the atrocities of mankind occasionally arise."
"RELIGIOUS faith has produced the finest architecture, the world's art masterpieces, the finest music, the greatest literature in the world—and also the greatest characters." —Selected.
 
MESSAGE TO THE SAINTS IN EUROPE Gertrude R. Garff Former Relief Society President of Danish Mission
MY words today are to be an expression of greeting, love and encouragement to our European Relief Society sisters from the General Board and Relief Society as a whole. Today we feel very close to our sisters abroad because of the many fine things we have heard about them from these splendid women who have spoken to you this morning. These few minutes we dedicate to our Relief Society sisters in Europe. It is a wonderful privilege to be here in this gathering in Zion—in America. Let us turn our thoughts and hearts to those sisters not so privileged but whose thoughts are nevertheless constantly with us. We love these women and honor them because they are faithful and devoted to the cause of truth and Relief Society. Those of us who live in the shadow of the Temple spires cannot possibly appreciate what it meant to those Saints in Europe to have the missionaries leave them—their last tangible tie with Church headquarters. I hope never to live through another day so sad as the day we received word at Copenhagen that all missionaries were to leave Europe for the United States, even though I knew in my heart it was the right thing to do. Think of the sense of loss felt by the Saints when they knew they were to be left to themselves. We have not deserted our European sisters; though we cannot be with them in person, we are with them constantly in spirit, loving them and praying for them. We are making every effort to help them with their Relief Society work. What may seem to them a great tragedy may prove to be a great blessing, for the Lord has said in latter-day revelation: "Blessed is he that is faithful in tribulation, the reward of the same is greater in the kingdom of heaven. For after much tribulation come the blessings." These people are indeed going through a time of tribulation. The loss of missionaries isn't their only trouble; many are not getting enough to eat and others in countries like Denmark have gone cold all winter, and meetings have had to be discontinued in the churches to save the precious fuel. But the Lord has promised blessings to the faithful—blessings of strengthened testimonies, love and understanding for our fellowmen. The Lord has said, "If you keep my commandments and endure to the end, you shall have eternal life which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God." When the early pioneers wondered why they should be so sorely tried, the Lord gave them this message, "My people must be tried in all things, that they may be prepared to receive the glory that I have for them, even the glory of Zion, and he that will not bear chastisement is not worthy of my kingdom." Every Latter-day Saint wants to be worthy of the Lord's kingdom, but how are we to prove our worthiness if we are not tried? The Apostle Peter tells us in one of his Epistles
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
that the trial of faith is precious. He had been writing of the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and he continued: "Wherein ye greatly rejoice though now for a season if need be ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations—that the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold which perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ." When we consider the rewards awarded to the faithful, we might well realize that a trial of our faith is precious if it gives us a chance to prove that ours is the "faith that will endure to the end." Even though it seems that the Lord, too, has forgotten us, he is ready to help us. The Scriptures are full of promises to the effect that the Lord will help us if we need him. We read in the Bible, "The Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him;" and from the Book of Mormon, "Look unto God with firmness of mind, and pray unto him with exceeding faith, and he will console you in your afflictions." The Doctrine and Covenants gives this comforting promise, "He that seeketh me early shall find me and shall not be forsaken." These are wonderful promises based on one condition—that we call upon the Lord. May we, the Relief Society General Board and members assembled here today, call upon the Lord to bless these Saints in Europe with courage, endurance and faith that they, too, may exclaim as did the Saints of the primitive church, "We are troubled on every side but not distressed, we are perplexed but not in despair; persecuted but not forsaken; cast down but not destroyed."
General Session—Afternoon
GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT Counselor Marcia K. Howells
"GRACE be unto you and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ." Thus the Apostle Paul greeted the Corinthians long ago. He told them of the gifts of the spirit, of wisdom, discernment, knowledge, faith and many others. Down through the ages good women have been given such gifts. History is replete with interesting examples. In reading the Life of Joseph F. Smith,* I realized that his mother, Mary Fielding Smith, was richly endowed with spiritual gifts. She had faith and fortitude which carried her in the face of almost insurmountable difficulties. When she became the wife of Patriarch Hyrum Smith, she assumed the grave responsibility of mothering Hyrum's five little motherless children. In addition to the children, there were several helpless and infirm people, whom the patriarch charitably maintained; these also she loved and cared for. She was faithful and true to this
*Life of Joseph F. Smith, by Joseph Fielding Smith.
trust all the days of her life. Her first child, Joseph F., was born in Far West, Missouri, only a few days after his father had been put in prison for the Gospel's sake. Then, for several months, the young mother was sick with chills and fever. During that time her home was entered and robbed. Later, she was driven from this home and compelled to move 200 miles, still unable to leave her bed of sickness. Instead of complaining, joy filled her soul that she was counted worthy to suffer privations for the cause of truth. When she heard of the death of her husband and Joseph, the prophet, the dreadful blow was enough to crush one of less faith and courage. Yet, with a prayer in her heart, she assumed the responsibility of providing for the family of eleven. At one time, Mary Fielding Smith and son Joseph F., drove two ox teams down the Missouri for many miles, to obtain provisions. It rained a great deal, so the trip was very hard. After obtaining flour, meal and corn, they started back home. When night came, they camped on an open prairie. Near by were men camped for the night, who were on their way to market with beef cattle. Next morning Mary Fielding Smith's best yoke of oxen was missing. The search began—through tall wet grass they walked and searched. At last, they were compelled to return to camp without the team. Then Mary prayed and plead with the Lord to help them find the lost oxen. Immediately after, with renewed hope and confidence she left the camp. She walked toward the river. A man from the other camp rode up and told her he had seen the oxen going in the opposite direc-
 
tion. She didn't even look up, but went right on as before, and soon found the team tied in a deep gulch hidden from view. The team was released, and the journey homeward was continued. This incident deeply impressed the young Joseph F. He knew his mother always trusted implicitly in the Lord. Mary Fielding Smith determined to emigrate to the Salt Lake Valley and so started on that historic trek westward. She prayerfully maintained her integrity of purpose and pushed vigorously on, despite many discouraging circumstances. There were animals as well as children to feed and care for. Nursing the sick in wagons was a laborious service. Pulling heavily-laden wagons out of mud holes was a common occurrence. Yet, with faith and courage these and many other difficulties were overcome, and gratitude was freely expressed. The Smith family finally arrived in Salt Lake Valley where they could retire at night without being disturbed by mobs. But farm work was hard and the faithful mother toiled early and late to make a living for her family. These arduous duties sapped her strength. With her cherished family around her, she passed away when but 51 years of age, "a heroine in her own right." It was written of her, "Mary Fielding Smith was a saint if ever one lived on this troubled earth. She was beautiful to look upon—trim, straight, dark-haired and dark-eyed, with delicately blooming cheeks. Refinement, strength, courage, integrity, modesty and infinite sweetness and tenderness—these were her prevailing characteristics." Socrates said, "Life is a gift of na-
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
ture, but beautiful living is a gift of wisdom." And Ruskin wrote: "The weakest among us has a gift, however seemingly trivial, which is peculiar to him and which worthily used will be a gift also to his race." How may we obtain these gifts? By living as our Lord would have us live, by obeying the principles given us by His prophets. We can "serve far beyond our dreams if we have sufficient faith," and "faith must become active through works."
INFLUENCES OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME Achsa E. Paxman Member of General Board of Relief Society
IN a lone hut, in the midst of severe poverty, among plain, hardworking folk, Abraham Lincoln found all that was needed to nurture a good and great man—the greatest in the annals of his country, beloved in all the world. From a life of hard work on a farm under pioneer conditions, associating with humble, toiling people, the Lord chose and called the boy Joseph Smith to be the prophet of this dispensation. But the greatest wonder of history is that God our Father decreed that His Son should be born in a stable, chastened by struggle, disappointment, and sorrow, his only teachers a believing mother, work, nature, and the Book. The wonder and glory of life is contained in the life-stories of these three characters: thus born, thus conditioned, thus educated under God's guiding influence, they lived to do His will and accomplish His purpose. Home is the first and most important school in life, and religion should be the foundation of its education. Everything we want our Church to be we must begin to teach in the home, our first aim being manhood and womanhood. The most powerful and sustaining force in helping us to meet the realities of life is religion. It helps us to face danger, disappointment, and sorrow, and to put our trust in the Lord. It must be acquired early and exercised throughout life. It is a great influence and blessing in every Latter-day Saint home. We are the mothers in the Church. A mother is responsible for the atmosphere of the home. If our children are to do their part we must do ours. A mother who can plant devotion and faith in God in her child has already laid a good foundation for a fine and happy life. The blessing on the food and family prayers give spiritual joy and gratitude in the home. Hard feelings cannot survive if family prayers are held in the home. Unless we are capable wives and wise mothers who teach by example the principles of honesty, dependability, and righteousness, we have fallen short of our goal in spite of all our accomplishments. As mothers, it doesn't matter, when we die, whether we scrubbed our floors every day or not, but it does matter whether we taught our children the Word of Wisdom, had family prayers, and whether or not they have a testimony of the Gospel. As members of this Church we have been given the promise that if we will live in keeping with the Word of Wisdom we shall have health and shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge. A mother who had always lived the Word of Wisdom and taught it in the home entered an upstairs bedroom and found her own boy and a neighbor's boy smoking cedar bark made into imitation cigarettes. She talked to the boys quietly and impressively about the Word of Wisdom and the harmful effects of tobacco. She hoped her son would never be a smoker. She immediately introduced a building and painting program where they and other neighbor boys were kept busy in their leisure moments, and much constructive work was accomplished. Years afterwards this boy said to his mother, "When you came into that room and found us smoking cedar bark, I was mighty scared and expected a reprimand; but when you talked so kindly and instructively, it touched a spark in my soul that brought a determined resolution to abstain from the use of tobacco and liquor. With the home teaching and the continued instruction in the Church regarding the Word of Wisdom, I have never broken my resolution." This boy has acquired a fine education, has filled a mission, and has performed many positions of trust in the Church. This boy's life might have been different without the influence of this Latter-day Saint home. An ideal to which the Church has always been dedicated is the ideal of personal chastity and purity. Our Church leaders have always exhorted us to keep ourselves clean. Elder John Henry Smith related
 
an incident a few years ago about a German gentleman and scholar, an expert mineralogist, whom he had met during his travels for the Church. This man, with his seventy years, stood straight and strong and vigorous. His business or profession had taken him into every great mining region of the world. After graduating from the University of Berlin at the age of nineteen, he had gone to South America to begin his life's career. When he took his little mother in his arms to tell her goodby, she gripped his shoulders and searching his face and soul with her keen, penetrating eyes, she asked, "Are you clean, my boy?" "Yes, Mother, I came to you after my years at the University as clean as when you taught me my prayer at your knee." He returned to visit his mother several times with always the same report of purity and unblemished character. In his last goodby his mother said, "When you come home to me beyond, you will come with hands, and lips, and heart, clean and sweet." Every mother desires chastity and purity to characterize the lives of her children. What an influence and blessing to home and Church if our success is as complete as that of the German mother with her son! The Latter-day Saint home is where our boys and girls learn what life really is, what it means to know God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ. Through our homes our children respond to the teachings in Primary, M. I. A., Sunday School, and seminary; hidden treasures of knowledge unfold themselves; the standard works of the Church are clearer; life is infinitely happier.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
AMERICA—A CHOICE LAND Donna D. Sorensen, Second Counselor
Six hundred years before Christ, an American prophet and seer looked down the vista of twenty centuries and foretold the discovery of this nation by Columbus. Nephi, in the Book of Mormon, said: "And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles, who was separated from the seed of my brethren by the many waters; and I beheld the Spirit of God, that it came down and wrought upon the man; and he went forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who were in the promised land." (I Nephi 13.) The "man among the Gentiles" we believe to be Christopher Columbus. It was my good fortune at one time to do some research on the life of this man, and I was deeply impressed with the motivating spirit of his existence. As one biographer said: "The kernel of his being was restlessness. He was always on the move until his death. He wandered unceasingly from country to country and sailed from sea to sea, one of the most tormented figures that history has ever known." Another biographer has written: "One divines a man burning in the conviction of a mission, but knowing not as yet of his direction and seeing no path before him." One of our own Church writers of this day and age has said of Columbus: "It was not doubt that drove Columbus across the sea; it was faith—the impelling force of the spirit of the Lord." The Lord, speaking through Jacob, as recorded in the Book of Mormon, II Nephi 10, says that America shall be a "land of liberty" and "it is a choice land... above all other lands, wherefore I will have all men that dwell thereon that they shall worship me." America a choice land in what particulars? Choice in its physical features: the beauty of its mountains, valleys, lakes, trees, geological formations, etc. Choice, too, because of the spirit which broods over it—the spirit of freedom—and because it has been the haven for many of the world's oppressed. Choice because it was the nation chosen for the restoration of the Gospel. Choice because we believe men were raised up to prepare its Constitution. Choice because Zion is to be established on this continent. Numbers of people who have traveled this country from "sea to shining sea" have revelled in its delightful features; but now in the time of peril confronting many of the nations of the earth it becomes, with its peacefulness and liberty, indeed a choice land. America and its people have been promised rich blessings, but like all other blessings given to mankind these, too, rest upon obedience to principles upon which these blessings are predicated. Let us look back upon these prophecies. The people of the land shall prosper and enjoy the favor of heaven "so long as they follow righteousness and maintain the pure principles upon which this government was founded." The Latter-day Saints hold "that the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States are inspired documents, framed by men under Divine direction." Probably we, as mothers in the home, are not doing enough to teach our children a love of this country of ours with its God-directed background and history. Democracy can not be maintained as a pattern of government unless it is understood, and people must be educated to value the heritage which we, perhaps, have come to accept as a matter of course. Surely it is not too early to teach the children at our knees the principles of democratic government. In the record of the Jaredites, the Lord in speaking of this land states further: "Behold this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ." Women in this generation are faced with a bewildering array of choices, and many tempting opportunities await them for self-development. Sometimes there is difficulty in choosing wisely and well the things that will endure in our lives and the lives of our loved ones. The whole alluring world of art, literature, science, music, poetry, and painting beckons to be made our own; but let us never forget that a study of these can never be made a substitute for the Gospel. These are placed on earth to delight the hearts  of the people, but "salvation itself comes only by one route—the Gospel of Jesus Christ." The Lord has said, "To be learned is good if we hearken unto the counsels of God," and the Lord has specifically stated in this prophecy that this land shall be a land of liberty only so long as the people of the land serve Jesus Christ. Let us urge the keeping of the commands of the Lord, and with this will come the worship of God the Father. The mother in her home and in her management of her home often is the determining factor as to whether the family are churchgoers on Sunday morning. If the Sabbath day has been anticipated by her and preparation made and urged by her upon the family, the. Physical factors in that home are usually conducive for church attendance. Are we doing our full share in this regard; if so, we are helping to maintain this land as a land of liberty. Ever since the restoration of the Gospel, women in the Church, as they have learned the principles of truth, must have felt some necessity of obeying our Father and worshiping Him; but with the liberties of life, speech and the press abolished in many countries of the world, the words of the Lord in regard to the destiny of this country come with a fresh power of appeal and should motivate us anew in our determination to do all within our power to serve the Lord and assist our families in this regard.  THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE Amy Brown Lyman, General President The Coming Centennial of Relief Society LACKING but two years, Relief Society has covered the span of a full century, a century distinguished by great achievements. Life to- _ day is very different from that of a hundred years ago. New methods of locomotion have been inaugurated, new methods of conveying thought and sound discovered, labor-saving devices have been invented, and striking progress has been made in the scientific and educational world. One hundred years ago there were no steamships, and Church immigrants were weeks crossing the ocean. Parley P. Pratt and family were ten weeks on a voyage from England to New Orleans in 1843. Farmers were harvesting by hand, women were doing all their sewing by hand, and nobody could send a telegram or cablegram, or a telephone message. Some of the achievements of this century of progress are: railways, steamships, automobiles, airships; electric telegraph, wireless telegraph, telephone, radio, television, phonograph; photography, moving and talking pictures; friction matches, gas illumination, electric lights; typewriting and adding machines, dictaphones, sewing machines; anesthetics, antiseptic surgery, plastic surgery, germ theory of disease, Xray, preventive health work; scientific welfare work; abolition of slavery, emancipation of women. Relief Society has witnessed all of these great achievements. Relief Society supported the whole campaign for woman suffrage, which was won only after a struggle of seventytwo years—from 1848 to 1920. But remarkable as were the achievements of the century, the tragic failures cannot be overlooked —the failure to solve economic and social problems, the failure to eliminate war and crime, poverty and unemployment. These destructive forces are still with us. I am sure we shall all be looking forward with happy anticipation to our Relief Society centennial two years hence. We shall also be inspired and thrilled in looking back over the history, background, traditions, and achievements of the Society, and over the history of the Church and of the century. As we look back over the long winding road which has been traveled, I am sure we shall be able to visualize the brave women of each period who have made their contribution to the organization, given liberally of their time and talent, and then have passed the work on to others, leaving their memories and inspiration as a precious heritage to those who have followed. Nauvoo Centennial On June 24 and 25, 1939, Sister Robison and I visited Nauvoo to attend the centennial of the founding of that city. One of the meetings was devoted to Relief Society. It was held on the lawn adjoining the exact spot where the Society was first organized, near the recently erected Relief Society monument and on the banks of the great Mississippi. The organization meeting was re-enacted with three missionaries taking the parts of the three brethren—Joseph Smith, John Taylor, and Willard Richards, and with 18 women missionaries representing the charter members. It was a thrilling experience and brought tears to the eyes of many in attendance. The temple block, where most of the meetings were held, consists of four one-acre lots, and is about half the size of one of our large city blocks here. Two-fifths of the block has been purchased by the Church, including the old well which supplied the temple font. We were also thrilled to sit where that sacred edifice once stood which was built with so much faith and sacrifice, and was so ruthlessly destroyed.
Church Welfare Program
Of vital interest to Relief Society today, as well as to the Church itself, is the Church welfare program, some of the details of which we have discussed elsewhere. This program contemplates the proper care of those who cannot work and the providing of work for the able-bodied unemployed, and we are bending every effort to this end. The philosophy back of this program is that those who are unable to work and are dependent—such as little children, the aged and handicapped—should be properly cared for according to their needs; that those who are able to work should work for what they receive; that normal, well-adjusted people prefer to work for their needs and should have the opportunity and privilege to do so; that, where work is not available
 
in industry or through other regular channels, effort should be made to supply it if humanly possible through neighborly cooperative efforts, through the fostering of new industries, and through projects of make-work with wages; and, finally, that those who are able to give should give liberally. The spirit back of the program is unselfishness, the Golden Rule, fraternal friendship for those less well-off, brotherly love based on the Christian ideals of the brotherhood of man, reverence for human personality, and recognition of the value of the soul. Ever in mind is the injunction of the Master, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself." With such fine objectives and ideals back of it, with its basis in fundamental principles and standards of justice and charity which have stood the test of time and which apply to all ages, and with three-fourths of a million people united in its interests, this program, in spite of problems and in spite of obstacles seemingly insurmountable at times, is bound to achieve and to be constructive and helpful in all of our Church communities. It is our firm conviction that war itself could be eliminated if people everywhere would accept and apply these ideals. The unemployment situation does not seem to improve. The latest estimates are that eleven million people are out of work. Throughout the whole nation it seems to have become chronic in form and is eating at the very foundation of independence and livelihood. For ten
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
years the country has grappled with this condition and still seems not to have found the way out. With machinery constantly displacing workers, and with maladjustments in the economic world, the problem seems to become even bigger. It was estimated only recently that when the machines which have been invented for picking cotton are installed, hundreds of cotton pickers will also be forced into idleness. We believe in work, we glorify work. We favor work and wages for those in need who are employable. Work for subsistence gives the person in need an opportunity to make a contribution for the assistance he receives rather than to take something for nothing. If full-time work is not obtainable, we favor part-time work. Any fraction of a job is better than no job at all. We believe, naturally, that work to which a given individual is adapted or for which he is trained, is best for him; work in which his faculties have the freest possible play is ideal. But if desirable work cannot be secured, he should accept gladly whatever type of honest work is obtainable. It is most gratifying to observe the large number of successful Church work projects which have been developed in the various localities as a result of the vision, ingenuity and devotion of the general and local welfare committees and the workers themselves. The far-reaching effects of these projects cannot begin to be estimated in terms of dollars and cents. Along with our curative or relief program, we are placing special emphasis on the preventive features of our work, which have already accomplished so much, but the benefits of which cannot be estimated financially. We are trying to provide ways and means whereby people can maintain their independence and thus preserve their morale, and we are especially proud of the results obtained. We are trying to make it possible for people to meet their own problems. We believe that the feeling or sense of achievement and of power that springs from meeting and making one's own adjustments is too precious a possession to be denied to any human being. We feel that that which prevents a crisis and thus makes for the independence and development of a person who is economically threatened, that which increases his strength and adds to his character, should be the aim of all who are truly interested in the welfare of others. Thus, constructive, preventive welfare work is one of our chief goals. Such work, like preventive medicine or public health work, is bound to be far-reaching and to produce permanent results. We are trying to teach and to practice careful planning, thrift, frugality and economy, and the avoidance of the bondage of debt. We are trying to live within our means and to encourage others to do the same. The generosity of our people is to be commended. Fast-day donations and other contributions are given gladly, as well as hours and days of time and faithful service. Surely they will be rewarded for their generosity and willing service.
Support of Other Church Projects
The General Board commends and bespeaks the support of all Relief Society women for the Deseret Industries, which salvages and reconditions for sale at reasonable prices used clothing, furniture, and equipment; the Church campaign for the non-use of alcohol and tobacco; and the Church-wide program for the beautification of our homes and churches.
Sacrament Meeting and Fast Meeting
The ward bishops are making a great effort to increase attendance at the regular Sacrament meeting and
 
at Fast meeting. These are considered the most important of all our meetings. We urge Relief Society women to support the bishops in this matter, not only by attending regularly themselves, but by using their influence in interesting the young people in these important services. The development of testimony is most important; the stability of the Church depends in large measure on the individual testimony of its members.