THE semi-annual general conference of Relief Society convened in Salt Lake City, Wednesday and Thursday, April 3 and 4, 1940. Arrangements for this two-day conference, devoted largely to the consideration of administrative procedures, were made by a committee of the General Board, of which Counselor Marcia K. Howells was chairman. Due to the recent reorganization of the General Board, which occurred as of January 1, 1940, midway in the six-month interval between the October and April conferences, the conference just held was characterized by tributes of love and appreciation to the retiring leaders, and by the introduction of the new general officers and board members.
Retiring Officers and Board Members Honored
The service and achievements of former General President Louise Y. Robison, Counselor Kate M. Barker, General-Secretary Julia A. F. Lund, and other retiring board members, during the eleven years of their administration, were extolled by the new president, Amy Brown Lyman, in the opening address of the conference. The inspirational invocation at the final general session in the Tabernacle was offered by Sister Robison, and the first session of the conference—the officers' meeting in the Assembly Hall—was opened with prayer by Annie Wells Cannon, who had served as a member of the General Board for twenty-eight years. Other former members of the Board who appeared on the conference program were: Emma A. Empey, who had also served as a member of the General Board for twenty-eight years, and who offered the invocation at the president's breakfast; Janet M. Thompson, now a member of the general superintendency of the Primary Association who, in the music department, discussed The New Relief Society Song Book which was prepared for publication during her service as former chairman of the Board's music committee; and Lalene H. Hart who pronounced the benediction at the department session on the work meeting and Mormon Handicraft. Opportunity for the renewal of acquaintance and the exchange of
MAY, 1940 No. 5
greetings between former Members of the General Board and Relief Society workers from the various stakes and missions was provided at all sessions and functions of the conference, but especially at the evening reception, April 3, in honor of Louise Y. Robison, her executive officers and board members, which was attended by nearly 1,500 stake and mission officers and board members and ward presidents.
Participation of Present Board
The incoming officers and all new and retained members of the General Board participated in the conference through individual appearance on the program or as members of committees in charge of the various department sessions and social functions. At the reception, the new officers and members of the Board stood in the receiving line with the retiring leaders, while those members of the former Board who had served less than ten years and were retained as members of the present Board, greeted the stake and mission workers and ward presidents in the reception and dining rooms.
Schedule of Meetings
Following is a schedule of the meetings and entertainments which comprised the conference:
I. Officers' meeting (for stake and mission officers and board members), Wednesday, April 3, at 10:00 a. M.
II. Five department meetings, Wednesday afternoon, April 3—
1. Social Welfare and Membership (for stake and mission officers and board members, stake coordinators, and ward presidents), 1:30 p. M.
2. Relief Society Magazine (for stake and mission Magazine representatives, and stake, mission and ward presidents), 3:30 p. M.
3. Work-and-Business and Mormon
 
Handicraft (for stake and mission officers and board members), 1:30 p. M. 4. Music (for stake and mission choristers and organists), 3:30 p. M. 5. Secretary-Treasurers (for stake and mission secretary-treasurers), 3:30 p. M.
III. Two general sessions (for all officers and members, and the public), Thursday, April 4, at 10:00 a. m. And 2:00 p. M.
IV. A reception in honor of Louise Y. Robison, former General President, and her executive officers and board members (for stake and mission officers and board members and ward presidents), Wednesday, April 3, 7:00 to 10:00 p. M.
V. A breakfast for stake and mission presidents, Thursday, April 4, 7:45 a. M.
Representation and Attendance
The inclusion of ward presidents at department meetings on social welfare and Relief Society Magazine, and at the reception was an innovation at this conference. Registration records indicate that more than 300 ward presidents attended the business sessions. All but two of the 128 stakes were represented at the conference. The representative from Gridley Stake was prevented from attending by last-minute interruption of train service, and Oahu Stake, located in Hawaii, was not represented because of the great distance. The representation included not only the stakes concentrated in western United States but the Chicago and New York stakes and those in Canada and Mexico. Ten of the twelve missions with headquarters in the United States were also officially represented—all but East Central States and Eastern States missions—and, in addition, the Canadian and Mexican missions. The Relief Society women who
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
assisted with the registration of attendance and who welcomed stake and mission representatives and ward presidents at all sessions held in the Assembly Hall were members of the Ensign Stake Relief Society Board. Registered attendance at the various business sessions which comprised the first day of the conference was approximately as follows: officers' meeting—1,000 stake and mission officers and board members; department session on social welfare and membership—700 stake and mission representatives and ward presidents; department session on Relief Society Magazine—600 stake and mission representatives and ward presidents; at the department dealing with the work meeting and with Mormon Handicraft—400 stake and mission representatives; music department—150 stake and mission choristers and organists, or their representatives; more than 100 stake and mission secretaries, or their representatives, attended the department for secretary-treasurers; and 175 women—Relief Society presidents of stakes and missions, or their representatives, recently-returned presidents of Relief Society in European missions, and former and present members of the General Board—assembled for the presidents' breakfast which was held early Thursday morning, on the second day of the conference. Attendance at the general sessions in the Tabernacle was approximately 4,000 at the forenoon meeting, and 6,000 at the afternoon meeting when nearly every seat was taken. General officers of other auxiliaries, and wives of the General Authorities of the Church, also attended sessions of the Relief Society conference; Mrs. J. Reuben Clark, Jr., pronounced the benediction at the department session relating to the Relief Society Magazine.
Achievement Recognized
Recognition for achievement in the Magazine and membership drives was accorded at the department meetings relating to these activities. President Amy Brown Lyman presented a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine for 1939 to each of the twelve award-winners previously announced in the December, 1939, issue of the Magazine. Counselor Donna D. Sorensen introduced individually the representatives of the six missions and four stakes who, midway in the four-year membership drive for a general increase of one-third, had achieved a net increase of 50% or more over 1937. Identification of these stakes and missions, and their respective numerical and percentage increases, will be found in the report of the proceedings of the membership department.
Music at the Conference
At the officers' meeting in the Assembly Hall, Lily Priestly rendered beautifully the organ prelude and postlude, and accompanied the congregational singing which was directed by Beatrice F. Stevens, chairman of the General Board's music committee. The Relief Society rally song, A Hundred Thousand Strong, was sung in the Assembly Hall at the close of the department meeting on membership, and during the final general session in the Tabernacle, directed, respectively, by Olive Rich, Bonneville Stake Relief Society chorister, and Beatrice F. Stevens, who composed the song.
In the music department, selections from the cantata, Resurrection Morning (words by Ida R. Alldredge, music by B. Cecil Gates), were sung by a trio composed of Emma Lucy Gates Bowen, Annette Richardson Dinwoodey, and Virginia Freeze Barker. A special feature at the general session was the combined choruses of Singing Mothers from Kolob, Provo, Sharon, and Utah stakes, comprised of 261 singers, and directed in rotation by their respective stake directors, Zina C. Condie, Mae B. Young, Melba P. Pyne, and Edna P. Taylor. Dr. Frank W. Asper, Tabernacle organist, was at the console during both general sessions.
The Membership Arch
The beautiful, softly illuminated membership arch faced the congregation at the sessions of the conference held in the Assembly Hall and Tabernacle. This replica of a monumental arch presented in simple graphic form the progress of Relief Society toward its goal of 100,000 members by 1942. The lower blocks on either side of the arch were illumined in gold, representative of Relief Society membership at the close of 1937, just prior to initiation of the campaign for an increase of one-third by 1942; above these were blue-lighted blocks depicting the relative growth in membership during 1938 and 1939, and the central span, still in white, represented the anticipated growth during the two remaining years of the drive—1940 and 1941.
European Missions Featured
The withdrawal of all Church missionaries from the European missions, subsequent to the beginning of
 
war in September, 1939, brought to this conference the unusual opportunity of hearing from eleven former Relief Society mission presidents, who were featured at the first general session. The invocation at this session was offered by Margaret M. Peterson, former Relief Society president of Norwegian Mission, and the benediction was by Leone Jacobs, former Relief Society president of Palestine-Syrian Mission. Summaries of the messages and memories delivered to the conference by the nine other former Relief Society presidents from European missions are included elsewhere in this report of the proceedings. The appearance of the Millennial Chorus, composed of young men who formerly served in the British Mission and directed by Bertram Willis, was especially appropriate at this meeting devoted to missionary work in Europe. This session was deeply spiritual in nature and turned the hearts and sympathies of the entire congregation to the Saints in Europe.
Demonstrations and Exhibits
Many attendants at the Relief Society conference accepted the invitation of the  , to view the special and beautifully prepared exhibit of temple and burial clothing, to inspect the examples of showmanship used in the membership drive in Carbon Stake, and to visit the Mormon Handicraft Shop where a variety of fine and unusual handiwork was displayed. Articles from the Shop especially representative of attractive and saleable merchandise were also displayed at the department meeting on handiwork; other exhibits of
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
handiwork were also on display at this session, and these were augmented by the remodeled clothing and by the variety of modern textiles and literature which were used in the demonstrated talks by specialists in these fields. Articles from the Mormon Handicraft Shop were also displayed at the Salt Lake Regional Storehouse where a special exhibit of Church welfare work was located during conference week.
Summarized Report of Proceedings
Following are condensed accounts of the talks presented by the speakers at the various sessions of the conference, arranged in the order of their appearance. Because of limited space, the proceedings of the membership section and of the Magazine department are withheld from this issue of the Magazine, but will appear well in advance of the fall Magazine and membership drives so that reference may be made to the original and helpful suggestions presented in these department meetings. The address of Elder John A. Widtsoe of the Council of the Twelve, Training For Woman's Work, and of Elder Harold B. Lee, managing director of the Church welfare program, will appear later as separate articles. A summary of the discussion at the department meeting for secretary-treasurers will not appear in the Magazine, but will be mimeographed and sent to all stake and mission Relief Society presidents and secretary-treasurers.
Officers Meeting
SUMMARY OF PRESIDENT'S REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
PRESIDENT AMY BROWN LYMAN welcomed the stake and mission Relief Society officers, expressing the love and appreciation which the members of the General Board feel for the women who are conducting the work of the Society throughout the Church.
Reorganization of General Board
President Lyman reported the reorganization of the General Board of Relief Society which had occurred since the last general conference, and which became effective January 1, 1940. She spoke with gratitude of the many messages of love and loyalty sent by the stakes and missions which have welcomed and encouraged the new Board in its responsibility to serve the women of the Relief Society and in its endeavor to carry on satisfactorily the work so well established and developed by its predecessors. In a tribute to the former general president, Louise Y. Robison, her executive officers and board members, President Lyman noted the many years of faithful service which they had given as members of the General Board, pointing out that all of the retiring members had served continuously for ten years or longer, that five had served for 18 years, and 2 for 28 years. She quoted the following excerpts from a letter to the former General Board from the First Presidency:
"In releasing you, we wish to extend to you our heartfelt gratitude for the service which you have rendered, each and all of you, during your terms of office. You have carried on your work with marked success. You have been of the greatest assistance to the Priesthood in helping them to carry on their work. You have increased the knowledge and the culture of the women of the Church,... Bishops, presidents of stakes, the general authorities of the Church, including the First Presidency, have all been greatly aided in their work by your help. We commend you for your devotion, your untiring service, your sweet spirits; we thank the Lord for them."
Singing Mothers
President Lyman explained that with the reorganization of the General Board came the decision to release the central group of Singing Mothers which had functioned under its auspices, and to recommend that its fine singers identify themselves with the Re-
 
lief Society choruses in their respective stakes. She expressed appreciation for the splendid achievement of the central chorus, and of the various groups of Singing Mothers throughout the Church. Looking forward to the Relief Society centennial in 1942, the General Board desires to strengthen and feature the choruses of Singing Mothers wherever they now exist or may be organized. Undoubtedly they will be featured extensively in the coming centennial, either in large groups at the general celebration or in community observances in their own localities. Hereafter, choruses from various nearby stakes will appear at Relief Society general conferences.
Organizations and Reorganizations of Stakes and Missions
In reporting the following changes which have occurred since the last conference, October, 1939, due to the creation of new stakes and the reorganization of several stakes and missions, President Lyman spoke with appreciation of the splendid women who have been released, and who will henceforth be invaluable to their local Relief Societies, and welcomed the newly appointed officers:
ORGANIZATIONS
Date Stake Appointed President November 19, 1939 Inglewood (taken from Long Beach and Hollywood) Jennie Cluff (retained) October 1, 1939 Pasadena (taken from Los Angeles, Pasadena and San Bernardino) Lena W. Woodbury October 1, 1939 San Fernando (formerly Pasadena) Sadie E. Williams (retained) November 19, 1939 South Los Angeles (formerly Los Angeles) Blanche S. Hoglund (retained) November 19, 1939 Los Angeles (formerly Hollywood) Mary S. Jordan
REORGANIZATIONS
Date Stake Released Appointed President February 11, 1940 Curlew Rennis A. Larkin (Disorganized; wards added to Bear River, Malad and Pocatello stakes.) October 15, 1939 Malad Maude W. Call Hannah S. Harris March 10, 1940 Mount Ogden Ethel B. Andrew Ella P. Farr February 15, 1940 Portland Birdie S. Bean Clarice G. Sloan February 11, 1940 Rexburg M. May Grover Elizabeth Stowell January 14, 1940 Timpanogos Ella M. Cragun Cora W. Atwood March 31, 1940 Twin Falls Kathryn Kirkman Afton W. Hunt November 5, 1939 Wayne Ruby M. Forsyth Ida M. Jackson
Due to the war, the European mission presidents and their wives, with the exception of President and Sister Folland of South Africa, have been released, and have returned to the United States. Relief Society presidents thus released and the missions where they served are: British, Zina C. Brown; Czechoslovak, Martha S. Toronto, Danish, Gertrude R. Garff; East German, Ida D. Rees; French, Norma S. Evans; Netherlands, Claire T. Murdock; Norwegian, Margaret M. Peterson; Palestine-Syrian, Leone Jacobs; Swedish, Virginia B. Larson; Swiss, Fawn B. McKay; West German, Evelyn N. Wood.
Mormon Handicraft
The Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop is beginning its fourth year of service. The Shop and office are now combined and both are located at 21 West South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. A manager, with special training and extensive experience in the field of arts and crafts, has been placed in charge of the Shop, which is under the general direction of a committee of the General Board, and of a special advisory committee composed of Salt Lake women interested in the success of this enterprise. We appreciate the fine cooperation and loyal support given the Mormon Handicraft Shop by stake and ward Relief Societies. Ward and stake handwork leaders have given valuable assistance in appraising and accepting work to be entered in the Shop for sale. Many stake and ward Relief Societies have supported the Shop through payment of the annual membership fee of $1.00 whether or not their members consign articles for sale. Ward and stake Relief Societies are encouraged to continue this support.
Burial Clothes Department
The Burial Clothes Department maintained by the General Board is prepared to fill orders promptly, and to prepay all postal or express charges. Urgent orders are always filled and forwarded on the same day that they are received. Fast, modern means of transportation facilitates quick delivery in the United States and elsewhere. The Department specializes in burial clothing made to individual measurements for adults and children, including temple suits and all other types. Temple suits especially for temple work are also available in this Department. This temple and burial clothing is obtainable in a variety of different materials, but all qualities are characterized by the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
February 18, 1940 Woodruff 253 Harriet A. Spencer Lucille J. Thornock
same expert workmanship and immaculate condition.
Relief Society Magazine
Space in the Relief Society Magazine is very limited and it is therefore impossible to publish all the fine material which is submitted. In order to use the available space to the best advantage of all subscribers, the Magazine features items of general interest rather than those of local interest only. Upon request, an attractive gift card is sent to any individual for whom a subscription is received as a gift for a birthday, Mother's Day, Christmas, or some other occasion. The Relief Society Magazine drive is held each year from September 15 to October 15 in most of the stakes. However, Magazine work is a year-round activity, and it is a good policy for Magazine representatives to see that subscriptions are kept up during the entire year. Magazine representatives have a heavy assignment, but they are rendering a splendid service, both to the organization and to the homes into which the Magazine goes. Those wards are most successful where the officers wholeheartedly support the representative in her work. Each year in the December issue an honor toll is published recognizing the wards and stakes and Magazine representatives securing a subscription list equal to 75 percent or more of their net enrollment. Last year 501 wards and branches and 39 stakes received this recognition. This was a splendid achievement.
Relief Society Song Book
The new Relief Society Song Book is just off the press. It contains  —MAY, 1940
songs, arranged in three groups—songs for the congregation, songs for special groups, and anthems. Especially arranged and reproduced by a new process, the words and music are easily read. The cover is blue, beautifully engraved in gold. Because of its special loose-leaf device, the book lies flat when opened, and additional songs may be added. The price of the song book is 85 cents each, postpaid, and is obtainable only at the office of the General Board.
Official Instructions
THE following instructions for the conduct of Relief Society work include a few new plans, but represent, for the most part, a review of established policies on many points on which there has been frequent inquiry during the past few months.
Change in Relief Society Annual Stake Conventions
As you have already noted in the Magazine for February, 1940, our stake conventions this year will be held in conjunction with stake union meetings rather than with stake quarterly conferences as heretofore. In harmony with the new plan, the Relief Society convention for each stake will be scheduled, so far as possible, for the same day as the regular union meeting, in one of the late summer or fall months. Wherever convenient, more than one stake may be included in the same convention. When stakes with varying union meeting days are combined, the convention date cannot always coincide with the regular union meeting day in each stake. Some deviation from the regular union meeting
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
day will also be necessary in order to make it possible for members of the General Board to attend during the designated months. The convention will, in the month in which it is held, replace the union meeting for that month. In those stakes where the auxiliaries hold union meetings conjointly, those auxiliaries for which a convention is not scheduled may forego their union meeting in that month. Convention schedules of the auxiliaries are being planned so that they do not fall in consecutive months for the same stake, and so that no auxiliary will be deprived of more than one union meeting in order to accommodate the convention schedule of another auxiliary.
Relief Society Educational Year Shortened
In 1925 the Relief Society lesson course was shortened from 10 to 9 months and only the monthly work-and-business meeting was required during July, August, and September. The General Board now recommends, after due consideration and consultation with Relief Society women in various locations of the Church, that the regular required course of study be further shortened to an eight-month period, October through May, leaving four months—June, July, August and September—when only the monthly work-and-business meeting and the monthly calls by the visiting teachers are required, and when the stake may arrange for additional activities if it so desires. It is further recommended that all special meetings or socials, preliminary to the opening of the class work in October, be held in September and that all special review meetings or closing socials be held in June. If September and June are thus used for all special preliminary and closing meetings and activities, the educational program can extend over the full eight-month period without interruption. It is intended that this plan will be uniform throughout the Church, obviating the confusion which was apparent in the past when the study period did not begin and end simultaneously. With this shorter season for weekly meetings, stakes undoubtedly will plan union meetings during the period from September through April, and will probably not require them during the period from May through August.
Annual Review of Instructions to Stake and Ward Officers
In order to be more conversant with the duties of officers, it is recommended (1) that at the preliminary stake board meeting held in September, a portion of the time be devoted to reading and discussing together the instructions to stake and ward officers which are found in the stake record book and which appear in the Relief Society Handbook; and (2) that at a similar preliminary ward officers' meeting a portion of the time be devoted to reading and discussing together the instructions to ward officers which are found in the ward record book and which appear in the Relief Society Handbook. Many difficulties and misunderstandings may be cleared up by this means, and unnecessary correspondence avoided. Because of the constant turnover in both stake and ward officers, there are a number of new workers each year who are unfamiliar with the duties, responsibilities, and interrelationship of officers.
Ward Conferences
In some stakes, annual ward Relief Society conferences have been held in the spring, but it is the desire of the General Board that they be held in the fall of the year, when plans and study courses for the coming season can be previewed to advantage, for the information and stimulation of both present and prospective members. Sunday is preferred for these conferences, when there is an opportunity to present the work of the organization to the general membership of the ward.
Union Meeting
Extensive preliminary programs are not recommended for union meetings. The union meeting is a leadership and study meeting and the time should be devoted to the special detail work and problems of the organization, and not to entertaining features nor sermons.
Theology-and-Testimony Meeting
Reports are still coming in that there is not sufficient time for the program on theology-and-testimony day. A number of years ago the General Board recommended that where there is a large enrollment the time for this meeting be extended 15 minutes, and cover 1¾ hours—from 2 to 3:45 p. M., which should give sufficient time to cover the work. In such wards it was suggested that 45 minutes be devoted to the theology and 35 minutes to testimony, leaving 25 minutes for opening and closing and for any necessary business needing attention.
 
It is suggested that any business not needing immediate attention be deferred until the next meeting, and of course there should be no singing practice on this day. In smaller wards where the extra fifteen minutes may not be needed nor desired, it was suggested that 45 minutes be devoted to the lesson, 20 minutes to testimony, and 25 minutes for opening and closing and business. In either case the theology lesson should close promptly at the end of 45 minutes, when testimony should begin. Testimonies need not be lengthy. Several short, spirited, testimonies may easily be given in the time allotted.
Stake Boards
It is the opinion of the General Board that some of our stake boards are too large. We recommend that when the organization is first formed the number of members be somewhat limited; that the board be filled slowly as additional members are required, and that the board be kept of such a size that it will function most efficiently. A stake board of twelve to fourteen in number is probably sufficient to carry on the work. Where too many of the able women are placed on stake boards, ward organizations are seriously hampered. This recommendation is for consideration when stake boards are being organized or reorganized, and is not a request for stakes with larger boards to make immediate reductions.
Visits of Stake Officers to Wards
Wards should not be visited too often by stake officers—most certainly not every week. All wards should be visited by stake board members at least once a year, twice
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
if possible, and more frequently if wards are easily accessible and additional visits considered profitable. Stake board members should attend Relief Society meetings in their own ward organizations as ward members as often as possible, in order to keep in close touch with the work there, and to be helpful. On March 6, 1940, the General Board ruled "that all visits to wards by stake board members as official Relief Society representatives be counted as official visits, irrespective of the occasion for which the assignment is made. This means that if board members are assigned to represent the stake board at ward conferences, at annual day celebrations, or at special meetings or socials relating to ward Relief Society work, such visits are to be counted as official visits."
Dividing Responsibility
It is felt that some of the officers are overworking. Stake and ward presidents should divide their responsibility with their counselors. It has been recommended for many years that the president have charge of welfare work and the direction of the visiting teaching, that one counselor have charge of educational work, the other of the handwork. The counselor best fitted for educational work should be given this work, and the counselor best fitted for art work, sewing, designing, etc., should handle the work department.
Reporting General Conference
The General Board suggests that stake presidents have reports made to the local workers by those who attend Relief Society conference upon their return home. A portion of the first or second union meeting after conference might be devoted largely to such reports.
"Progress of the Church"
At our request the Presiding Bishopric has very kindly consented to supply each Relief Society stake and mission president with a copy of all future issues of The Progress of the Church. This monthly publication, sent out regularly from the Presiding Bishop's office to the presiding Priesthood, will be both interesting and valuable to Relief Society women, helping them to understand and support the program of the Priesthood. The copies to be sent to Relief Society stakes and mission presidents are for their information and reference only; they are not sent with the idea that you should make suggestions to the Priesthood regarding their work.
Relief Society Funds
Charity funds of the Relief Society are to be used strictly for the purpose for which they were obtained. Every cent donated for charity should be used for the care of those in need. In the February, 1940, Progress of the Church appears the following ruling from the Presiding Bishopric on Relief Society funds in general:
"Relief Society funds, having been secured for definite and specific purposes, should not be drawn upon for other uses. Under no circumstances should bishops draw upon Relief Society funds for ward purposes, buildings or other needs. Such funds are to remain with the Relief Society officers to be expended as provided in the plan of the Church, and not for other purposes."
With respect to the use of Relief Society funds in furnishing the Relief Society room in a ward chapel, the Presiding Bishopric has informed us that if the room is assigned to the Relief Society only, the Society bears the cost of its furnishings; if the room is used by other groups as well as by the Relief Society, its furnishing is a part of the total cost of the building and is paid from the funds available to the bishop for building purposes. Relief Society officers are sometimes asked to lend the funds of the organization. The General Board emphasizes again the specific ruling on this matter which appears in the Relief Society Handbook, page 189:
"The Relief Society is not a loan agency. Requests for loans should be referred to banks or other loan agencies. Relief Society money should not be loaned to Relief Society officers during their incumbency, nor to other individuals." (See also Relief Society Handbook, pages 176-188.)
Relief Society Funds and the Ward Budget Plan
In the budget plan for the wards as set up by the Presiding Bishopric, an exception has been made regarding Relief Society funds. In the Progress of the Church for February, 1939, August, 1939, and January, 1940, it is stated plainly that the Relief Society charity funds, annual dues, and other collections are to be excluded from the ward budget. The only exception to this ruling might be made in connection with the general fund, which is an expense or operating fund. If desirable, this fund might be made available through the ward budget.
 
Wherever the general fund of the Relief Society is obtained through the ward budget, the amount requested of the bishop when the ward budget is set up may be determined on the basis of the yearly average of Relief Society expense for general purposes incurred during the three preceding years.
Bazaars
There is no reason why a Relief Society should not hold bazaars if it desires to do so, so long as no admission fee is charged, and no remade articles are sold.
Class Leaders
Class leaders should be chosen from among Church members. Nonmembers may assist in literary and social service lessons, but it is preferable that those named as class leaders be Latter-day Saints. There may be exceptions to this in the missions.
Visiting Teachers
Likewise, visiting teachers should be selected from among Church members, as they are expected to be able to discuss and explain the Gospel. There may also be exceptions to this in the missions. Reference is made to the new ruling announced at the last general Relief Society conference, October, 1939, "that when a reorganization of a ward Relief Society takes place, all visiting teachers are to be released when the president is released." It was explained at that time that in many wards there are inactive visiting teachers who are unable to carry on and would welcome an honorable release. Visiting teachers should attend Relief Society meetings regularly. They cannot expect to be influential
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
in getting others to attend unless they set the example themselves. Neither can they stimulate interest in the meetings and the program unless they attend regularly. The General Board recommends that visiting teachers be sustained at Relief Society ward conferences along with the officers and class leaders. They may be sustained in a group, but it is preferable that their names be read.
New Members
With the progress of the membership drive many questions have come in regarding new members. The Handbook is quite clear on this subject. It is suggested that the wards make it a general practice to receive new members on work-and-business day, although they may be admitted at any meeting. Before new members are admitted, the duties and privileges of membership should be thoroughly explained to them, including responsibility regarding annual membership dues, monthly charitable contributions, attendance at meetings, etc. Prospective members should not be urged to join until it is known that they are really interested and expect to give their allegiance to the organization. When members are enrolled for the first time, it is expected that they pay their membership dues for the year in which they are admitted. However, when new members enter the organization after September 30, the dues paid at that time should be considered as covering the remainder of the current year and also the following calendar year. New members should be hospitably received and introduced to others. It sometimes happens that 299 when a Relief Society woman moves to a new ward, she is left to get acquainted as best she can. In some wards a special committee is appointed to look after new members. When a memiber moves from one ward to another, she should present her membership card to the new ward and be presented and received by formal vote in a regular meeting. (See instructions in Relief Society Handbook and ward record book.) Circular Letters It is the responsibility of stake officers to transmit to the wards information sent out in circular letters. Frequent inquiries at the office of the General Board about matters that have been explained either at conference or by circular letter to the stake presidents indicate that stake officers sometimes neglect to keep their ward officers informed. Official Correspondence to be Conducted Through the General Office Stakes should address all official correspondence to the general office and not to various members of the General Board. All official correspondence should be answered through the secretary's office, so that copies of all letters may be properly filed for future reference. This ruling does not apply to personal correspondence, but to official correspondence relating to the Relief Society. All letters to the general office from Relief Societies in wards and branches containing questions about local work are referred back to their respective stake and mission Relief Society presidents for answer and instruction. 300 Cooperation of Relief Society With Other Agencies Questions constantly arise regarding the advisability of Relief Society responding to requests of other groups, agencies, and individuals, for assistance in carrying out their programs and in helping them in the raising of funds for their work. The policy of the General Board is for the Relief Society to conserve its energy, strength, and funds for its own maintenance and special work and that the Society should not be used to promote the work of other organizations or of individuals. This statement does not apply to Relief Society women as individuals—they are, of course, free to take up any work they see fit. There is no objection, however, to the Relief Society cooperating with other agencies in community betterment programs or social action, but it is advised that the organization maintain its own identity in all such cooperative work. Executive Officers Responsible tor Business Affairs of Society The executive officers are responsible for the business of the Society. All of them should be acquainted with the financial transactions, and important or unusual expenditures of Relief Society funds should be made only with their full knowledge and approval. In some stakes there is a tendency to leave all business matters to the discretion of the secretary, or of the secretary and president. These two officers need the support and protection of the counselors with respect to financial matters. At least once a year, preferably at the time the annual report is prepared, all the executive officers should carefully review the affairs of  

 society, and should sign the annual report with the personal knowledge that it represents an accurate accounting of the funds. This need not apply to the confidential details of charity payments to individuals which are issued by the ward president in cooperation with the bishop. Funerals on Tuesday It has been reported that funerals in Our various communities are often set for Tuesday afternoon, interfering greatly with regular Relief Society meetings. It is suggested that Relief Society stake presidents discuss this matter with the local Priesthood authorities with a view of asking for an adjustment in this respect. V Sewing in Relief Society Meetings The question constantly arises regarding sewing in Relief Society meetings. The ruling of the General Board is that no sewing should be permitted in any Relief Society meeting except the work-and-business meeting, which is primarily for handwork and business. Even in this meeting, during the first short period when instruction on nutrition or other subjects is being given, sewing should be postponed until the discussion period which follows the formal presentation of the topic. Hymn-Singing Project A hymn-singing project for the entire Church membership has been inaugurated. This project contemplates the learning of a new hymn every month by all congregations throughout the Church. These hymns are selected by the General Music Committee, and direction for their presentation will appear in the Improvement Era, beginning with RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the April issue. (See Relief Society Magazine, April, 1940, page 257. Beautification Program An important new project, inaugurated during the past year by the Presiding Bishopric, is the beautification program for cleaning and beautifying both the interior and exterior of chapels and homes throughout the Church. We bespeak for this program the immediate and valuable cooperation of our Relief Society women. Upon request of the Priesthood authorities, a representative of 301 the Society will be a member of the beautification committee in each stake and ward. These committees will work out plans for their respective localities. The Sacrament Table In connection with Church beautification, the  . Now with respect to character building, may I say again that I think there is no organization in our Church which can render such effective help in both phases that I have indicated, as this organization, and so the question arises as to what you may do. 1. Continue your cooperation, because this campaign, sisters, is not for the season, it is not for the year, but it is to continue with the objective of getting a trained youth in the Church that will grow up free from the vice of using narcotics, and a youth that is founded solidly upon the principles of honesty, virtue, morality, and all the other good qualities. 2. May I urge that you do something about law enforcement in this state, and in other states where there are similar laws. Now the municipal organizations of Utah, as well as the organization of county officers, has each in its annual convention in this state unanimously resolved that it favors enforcement of these laws; but no laws will be enforced without public support. If you do nothing about it, if no one else does anything about it, but leaves it to the enforcement officers, nothing will be done. The law on the statute books 306 of this state forbidding the giving or selling of tobacco in any form to minors, and stating that they cannot use tobacco in any of the public places I have indicated, has been on the statute book for a number of years, but it has not been enforced. So may I ask, sisters, that your organization in all of your communities and in all of your wards and districts, contact the enforcement officers in your towns and cities and counties, with a request that they enforce this anti-narcotic law, and keep in contact with them, and check them up. 3. Again may I ask. That you actively cooperate with the schools. The law I spoke of, passed by the last legislature, contemplates that there shall be established under the leadership of the public schools, active cooperation in character building. Now, of course, character building to us means to be developed and trained in all of those factors that will make a boy or girl an ideal citizen as well as an ideal member of the Church. 4. May I suggest that you do something that is characteristic of Relief Society, and carry it forward 

 

 —something that will be indicative of your efficiency and of your loyalty to the cause. 5. May I say that in my opinion the most effective work that you can do, or any of us can do, is to so live and teach our families that we will demonstrate to all who see or hear us that we ourselves are earnest and sincere in this matter. Why should we eliminate smoking, and why should we get a generation growing up free from the vice of smoking? Sisters, there is nothing in the Church that is so surely and so certainly killing the faith of our boys, and unfortunately, of some of our girls, as the cigarette. It is the faith of our boys and girls that we are trying to develop, because if we can develop that faith taught by the Church, we shall have boys and girls who will be an honor and a pride to their homes, to us, and to the Church. And so, my sisters, I plead with you to use your influence in your efficient and well-organized ways to help out this campaign in the ways indicated, and in any other way that you may find effective. LOOKING FORWARD TO 1942 Mary Grant Judd Member of General Board of Relief Society wat a glorious thought that in two short years from now our great Relief Society organization will have given one hundred years in service to humanity?. Who could even begin to enumerate the countless unselfish acts which have gone to form this long chain extending across the past century, and which is unbroken, except for the rather brief space when the original pioneers were making the great westward trek. Surely such an achievement deserves the best we can give in the way of our 1942 centennial observance. Much of the joy of any RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE event comes from anticipation as well as from realization, and a joy shared is a joy increased. Let your plans go forward joyfully and prayerfully. By rare good fortune, the actual anniversary date—March 17—falls, in 1942, on Tuesday, our regular meeting day, so it will be particularly fitting for the local organizations to stage their celebrations on that day. We suggest that, where possible, this be done in a stake capacity rather than in separate wards, so that both efforts and funds can be combined to accomplish something really outstanding. But this, like all your efforts, must be determined by your local conditions. Begin planning now, for it is not too soon. The General Board feels that, following the local celebrations, the logical time for a large general observance will be at the time of the regular conference in April of 1942. Weare looking, so to speak, through our opera glasses from the big toward the little end at this time, and at some future conference we shall turn the glasses around and give you a magnified view of what is in store. In the meantime, we are earnestly seeking for inspirational ideas to add to those we already have in mind, and shall be more than happy to consider any suggestions you may send in. 307 Anniversaries are important occasions, not only for the inspiration rgceived at the actual time, but in retrospect because of the joy which memories bring. Our 1942 celebration will belong to every member of the Society. Many women, otherwise unable to do so, may be able to join us in the general celebration if they start. Planning and saving now. Our centennial observance must comprehend much more than the actual seventeenth day of March. We want the entire year 1942 to be known as "Relief Society Centennial year," not only to those within the Church but to everyone. There is no other woman's organization extant that has functioned continually over a period of one hundred years. This is "news" and we believe some of our big national magazines which report current happenings will be eager to give us space in their columns. What better missionary medium could the Church ask for than a report through these sources conceming our organization, what it stands for, and what it has accomplished during the past century! Let us all try to sense the great importance of the occasion which faces us. Let us join hands, unitedly resolved to suitably commemorate our centennial anniversary. BEAUTIFICATION PROGRAM Bishop Marvin O. Ashton, of the Presiding Bishopric I SOMETIMES wonder if we really cooperate with one another just the way we ought. If we would get back of one another just a little bit better, we would cut a bigger swath. While on a mission, I ran across this quotation by Kerr Hardy, one of the biggest socialists in Scotland in his 308 time. He once said, in addressing a socialist meeting, "If we do nothing more than preach socialism, we are as harmless as the men who preac about religion." I wonder if we sometimes talk too much and do too little. I am reminded of the young English lad who had just come over here and was hired by a farmer. He knew more about a cotton mill than he. Did about horses and pigs on the farm. As he came in one night before supper, Farmer John said, "Well, William, have you fed the geese?" He replied, "Yes, Mr. Brown." "What did you feed them?" asked ' the farmer. "T fed them hay." "Well, did they eat it?" The young lad's response was, "I do not know, Mr. Brown, but when I left them they were talking about it." Now, do we chatter too much, or do we get in gear? The important thing, of course, is to act. There is nothing new about the beautification program for our homes and churches. One of the first things the pioneers did was to beautify, and they brought over the Plains trees, shrubs, and seeds, and endeavored to make their homes beautiful. We ought to get back to some of the old principles. The other day I was told this little incident about a woman whose baby had a cold on its lungs. When the doctor was called, he said, "My dear, if I were you, I would give this baby a mustard plaster and do it quick." She replied, "But doctor, isn't that rather old-fashioned?" He said, "Yes, my dear, but so are babies." We have just got to get back to some real, honest - togoodness old-fashioned methods. 

 

 It is a pitiful sight to see, as you go through the country, the dilapidated fences and barns, and unpainted houses and ragged yards. Now I have enough sense to appreciate how some people are struggling. There are some who may not be as fortunate as the rest of us, but it does not take a great deal of money to improve our surroundings. It does take elbow-grease and a little thinking. It takes a little motion which otherwise may be lost in whittling and spitting. I picked up a book the other day and read this story of a new maid who had gone to a house to work. It seemed that the folks of the house where she worked had a turtle. Of course, turtles hibernate during the winter. (To all intents and purposes, they hibernate all the time, but in the winter they sleep more soundly than at other times.) In seeking for a place to be quiet and dark this turtle went into the coalshed, down in the basement. He stayed there and slept soundly. About April first the maid, who had been employed in the fall, went down into the basement and got the scare of her life. This April morning the rays of the sun somehow had gotten down into the basement and touched the turtle; and he started to make his way to the foot of the stairs. The girl, on reaching the basement, threw up her hands, rushed upstairs, and hysterically screamed, "Good heavens, is this house spooky? That flat stone on which I have broken. All the winter's coal is crawling around." Now maybe that is just a bit exaggerated, but sometimes you can pound, and pound, and pound, and there is no awakening whatsoever. What are we doing about some of these essential things? If you cannot RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE keep your boy or girl at home because of the shabby conditions around your place, I believe the improvement of your surroundings would be a religious contribution. In the Church beautification program we are trying to do two things. The first is to organize a committee in each ward. On that committee should be a representative of the Relief Society, Sunday School and the different organizations of the ward. Each organization will instill into its members the ideals that should be put into action regarding their own homes, inside and out. That committee will divide up its work so that they will have a real honest-to-goodness program, benefiting our Church buildings inside and out. In other words, first, individual salvation, and second, if you please, general salvation—the home and the Church. Now as you do that, you are preaching religion about the finest way you can. You will hold your young people. Sometimes they drift away because our home conditions are not what they should be. Second, each stake should have a corresponding committee. There should be a connection between the Relief Society member of the stake = 309 committee and the Relief Society member of the ward committee. If you find that a bishop is rather slow on his feet, will you please throw modesty away and if necessary use a "fire-cracker," hoping it will take effect so that he will appoint that committee.. As President Clark stated recently, initiative is fundamental; we are not going to map out everything at headquarters and leave you without opportunity to initiate your own activities. We do not think as much as we should. Just what are you doing about it? Are you thinking of the problems ahead of you, or are you waiting for somebody at headquarters to continually urge and plan for you? I went to a Scotch reunion the other night, and I heard this story: Before the Battle of Trafalgar, Nelson called his officers together, looked into their eyes and exclaimed, "England expects this day that every man shall do his duty." Two Scotchmen were standing side by side. One nudged the other and said, "Do ye ken, he didna mention the Scotch." The other Scotchman, who was just as fast on the trigger, poked him back and said, "The Scotch dinna need to be telt." Do you need to be "telt''? Social Welfare Department THE PLACE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE WELFARE PROGRAM Presiding Bishop LeGrand Richards N this great welfare program it occurs to me that there is a place for the Relief Society even more important than service in canning fruit, making clothing, mending, and doing such things. The Relief Society can do many other things and do them very capably and well, and 310 probably far better than some of the brethren could do. I would rather trust any Relief Society president who served under me to go into a home and analyze the needs of that home, and submit them to me, than to do it myself, and I believe that is true in most cases. Now we want to do all we should to help the people of the Church who are in need, the worthy poor, in fact, all the poor; but the thing we ought to be sure about is that we know what they need. So often we do not know what we should do, and so we give them an order on the storehouse, or send over a package of groceries, or we give them ten dollars, and we think the job has been taken care of. I once zead this statement—"What would make a good meal for a sparrow would make a very poor meal for an elephant," and I think this might apply to welfare work. What would take care of one family's needs would be far insufficient and madequate for the needs of another. How are we going to take care of their needs unless we know the facts concerning the family, and that is where the Relief Society fits into the program. If you go into a bank and want to make a loan, and they have never seen you before, they do not give you $100 and ask you to sign a note; they want to know who you are, who your people are, what you do for 2 living, and what possibilities you have for repaying the loan. There is a creditrating bureau where you may get a rating on a man as to whether he has paid his bills, whether he has been in default, whether judgment has been taken against him. Some people move from one ward to another hoping they will find  

 bishop mote liberal than the one in the ward in which they have been living. There is a transient group that always thinks the other fellow's pasture is greener than their own. Then we have those who move from ward to ward in the natural course of events, and the tendency on the part of the bishop is to say, "You are not a member of our ward, and we cannot do anything for you." So we have asked the bishops to assume responsibility for all members living in their wards, whether their recommends have been received or not. However, in doing this it would be proper, if the recommends have not been received, for the bishops to determine whether they are getting help from the wards from which they came. As I have said before, it is our responsibility to help those who need help, but we should know whether they need help before we extend it, and what kind of help they need. HAVE an interesting statement here prepared by our medical social worker who operates out of the Presiding Bishop's Office, reporting all cases that were handled through that department during the year 1939. This, better than I could put it in words, illustrates what I mean by the intelligent handling of. Cases that need attention, showing that they do not all require the same remedy and the same assistance. Before this department was set up, and we began to analyze the cases, for instance, that were recommended to the L. D. S. Hospital (and this report deals largely with that hospital), we found people there at Church expense who had substantial bank accounts. We found people who were well able to pay their hospital bills, but the bish- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ops just thought they were. Good people and so they were given recommends to the hospital. President Grant tells the story of one man who was sent there on a bishop's recommend, and when he went to get his release the superintendent said, "I suppose you know you are a charity case, and that your name will so appear on the records." "No," he said, "I am not a charity case," and he pulled out his check-book and wrote a check for the hospital bill. One case was reported where a good woman was sent to the hospital by her son, who was a bishop, and we felt sure he was worth not less than $50,000, but he felt that his mother had been a good, faithful Latter-day Saint, and that she was entitled to assistance from the Church. We found one case where a man was not even a member of our Church, and we took it up with the church to which he belonged, and they said, "We do not expect you to pay for our members," and they sent a check to pay for the hospital bill. These are some of the conditions that were found where, without studying the cases, they were just given orders on the hospital. A total of 764 applications for haspital care were cleared through our medical social worker last year. Of this number we took care of 452 cases in the hospital. 'They were distributed among the various Church hospitals, including the Primary Hospital for children. Out of these 452 cases, we had 149 that could have been sent to the County Hospital. The only reason we did not send them to the County Hospital was because they were faithful Latter-day Saints and entitled to our services, and we gave them, and gave them 311 freely and gladly because they were worthy of that assistance. In addition to the hospital cases we took care of others in convalescent homes, some in doctors' offices, some were provided with glasses, some with false teeth, one with an artificial limb, some with physiotherapy treatments, and so forth. So you see they did not all require the same kind of assistance, and it was our responsibility to find out what kind of help they did need. Then we referred to other sources 279 cases, which in the ordinary course of events would have been largely taken care of because the bishops did not have time to investigate and see what the conditions were. Out of those 279 cases, 52 of them were able to make arrangements to pay their own bills for the care they received. The thought I would like to leave with you is this—out of 764 cases, no one was sent away unprovided for, but they were cared for intelligently after knowing what their needs were, and what the possibilities were of their paying their accounts themselves. We are recommending that all applications for assistance be cleared through the Relief Society. Here in Salt Lake County we have a Social Service Department under the direction of the Relief Society. This department is a member of the Social Service Exchange, and is entitled to clear cases through this community index. Outside of Salt Lake, if there is no community exchange in your locality, you should clear with your County Welfare Department. That means that we will check up and find out how many agencies are taking care of these people who ate being looked after. 312 In some cases we find that the Church is caring for them as well as other charity organizations, and there are some people who go around and get help from as many agencies as they can. It may be in some cases it is necessary to supplement the help given by other agencies, but when we do so we ought to do it with their knowledge and our knowledge, so we know that what is being given is supplemental help, and each agency understands where its responsibility begins and where it ends. We, as a community, owe it to the people to take care of those who are in need, but we should take care of them in an intelligent manner by knowing what their needs are, and by clearing with other agencies so that the assistance will not be duplicated. "THROUGH courses conducted by the Relief Society, Relief Society representatives in various stakes have been trained to make these check-ups and to do this clearing, how to go about it in an intelligent manner. Then these Relief Society workers, when they have used the ability and training they have to obtain this information, must give this information to the bishop of the ward who has the right to determine what should be done. He can take the matter up with the ward welfare committee, and they can decide what help should be rendered, but when they make that decision it should be with the information in their possession that these Relief Society workers are able to furnish and provide through the clearing of these various cases. I am sure the Relief Society is ready to do its part. This is an 

 

 intelligent service. We must realize that we are not just a social agency, but we are the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in all our work there must be the spirit of the Christ, the spirit of helpfulness, and above all things we must guard and protect the honor of the families we have to minister to and care for. We want to realize that the service is greater than feeding the hungry and clothing the naked. We want to make these members feel that they have a place in society, that they belong to the Church, and that we love them. They are our brothers and sisters, and we want to help when help is necessary in such a way and with such a spirit that the children will not grow up to feel that they are underprivileged, and that they are not wanted in society; that they are less desirable than other children in the community. There are many safeguards that should be placed around our work. Again I say to you that I think the usefulness of the Relief Society goes far beyond sewing and canning and doing these menial things that have to be done. I think it can render an intelligent service in the Church comparable to the service that our wives render in our homes. We men must be able to provide the wherewithal, but our companions provide inspiration, guidance, care, and wisdom that lead our children to success. That is what I think the Relief Society can do in the Church; that is what I think they have been doing for a long time, besides provoking their husbands to good works, as you so often hear.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
SOCIAL SERVICE Leona B. Fetzer Member of General Board of Relief Society
"A tract of country is not less romantic if we carry a map, nor is our effort to assist those in need less sacred if we approach our task with skill and knowledge."
MILLIONS in our nation are on the ragged edge of low income. They will be with us for long years, and public funds of necessity will be needed to supply their wants. Many special and particular needs, not otherwise attainable, are being supplied by the Church to faithful members, the denial of which could be crippling. The welfare of those in need is always the guide to our endeavors. We should limit our work to what we can do, and what we can do well. We should stimulate people to use their own and the community's resources, and to develop special interests. We should encourage simple living. Our goal is to enrich family life, and to help preserve it when it is threatened. We are asked to bring a healing virtue to those who toil and to those who are overburdened, so that they will be able to perform their work with steadfastness and purpose. Not only must we provide opportunities for the satisfaction of the simple fundamental, human needs, but at the same time we must develop the breadth and depth of the human spirit which comes from apprehending the eternal while abiding amid the temporal and the changing.
A RELIEF SOCIETY PROJECT IN PIONEER STAKE Lottie Fullmer President of Pioneer Stake Relief Society
ONE of our branches, organized less than two years ago, is composed largely of people who have lost their homes, and have had to depend on community agencies for subsistence. They have settled where they could buy a small piece of ground for what they could afford to pay, and have established small, humble homes there, the majority of them being just a shell and roof. We found that housekeeping conditions there were very poor, that these little shells had no conveniences whatever. We found in our survey that a number of the homes had made some arrangements for the protection of food supplies and dishes, but they had no place to put their clothing, washing and ironing. We tried to put ourselves in their positions, and wondered if we could keep up our pride if we were living in the same situation. So we discussed what we might do to meet their problems. We decided cupboard room and drawer room was their immediate need; so we met with our stake presidency and got their approval on the project we were about to undertake, and then we met with the presiding elder there, and their work director, and discussed our plan with them. So we set forth to build cabinets and wardrobes to put into the homes where these people might be lifted up to a higher standard of housekeeping, where they might have some place to put the things they had made such an effort to obtain. The Relief Society furnished the material, and the work director
 
there, who is a capable carpenter, supervised the work. The Relief Society also furnished the paint, but with the understanding that those who were to receive the cabinets must go to a central place and paint them; if they took them into their homes first, they possibly would not get painted. The hearts of these people are full of gratitude.
Work-and-Business Department
TOPICS FOR DISCUSSION, 1940-41 Ethel B. Andrew Member of General Board of Relief Society
THE work day is your opportunity day. The members of your organization should be considered and their interests recognized in planning the day's program and in making it an enjoyable social, as well as an adventure in new and interesting phases of homemaking. We mothers are responsible for the health of our families. Their health depends largely on what they eat. There are 30,000,000 homes in the United States. In every one of these homes, food is being prepared daily. The problem of what to eat becomes an important factor in the health of our nation. We have always known that we eat to live, but we are fast learning that what we eat has an important bearing upon how long we shall live and the degree of health we shall enjoy. Active research and general education along nutritional lines have made a definite improvement in the health of our children and a marked decrease in infant mortality. The nutrition lessons are optional, but the vital need of them is apparent. For the 1940-41 lesson season they are being approached from a different angle; i. e., what to eat to make better teeth and bones, hair and fingernails, skin, eyes, posture and muscle tone, dietary reinforcements, food for old people, and helpful and healthful party menus. Suggested menus and recipes, ideas on textiles, conservation, better housing, and better homemaking will be given. Make your lessons practical to fit your own group and remember that one objective of the work-and-business day is to make us better and more understanding mothers, to make our homes more livable, our family life happier, that we may indeed find life at its best.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
NEW CLOTHING FROM OLD (A summary of comments which accompanied a demonstration of remodeled clothing) By Susie Sanford Clothing Specialist, Utah State Agricultural College
THERE are two very important psychological factors concerned with clothing. One is the fact that clothing affects individual happiness and character development; the other is that an individual's clothing affects other people. One of the major expenditures of the family is for clothing, and in times of economic stress the mother has a great responsibility, not only in buying clothing, but in taking care of the clothing already on hand. What is saved is just as good as what is earned. There are many thrift practices which can be followed. Care of clothing is of first importance. A simple costume well cared for is far better than an expensive one that doesn't show care. Just the habit of hanging up clothes can help your clothing problems. Another helpful practice is proper storage. Learning to clean, to spot, to press, to do safe home dry cleaning will also save money. Removing dust and spots as soon as possible will lengthen the life of clothing. Good laundering methods will also lengthen it. An article that is carefully laundered when only slightly soiled will last a lot longer than clothing that becomes very soiled and has to be laundered so hard that the fibers are affected.
In making over clothing, there are many things to consider: first of all, the time and ability of the homemaker; second, what there is to be made over, and the condition that it is in. It is not profitable to remake clothing if the material is not worth the time that it takes to do it. In remodeling, think, too, of the style trends of the time. The textile world of today is governed by style, and more money is spent on style in clothing than on material in clothing. Your clothing money will reach farther if you know something about the style trends of the time—what is being worn at the present time and what styles are coming in. Suiting the style to the individual is another very important thing, and in remaking we have to think of the style of the pattern in order to use the best of the material that we might have at hand. In remodeling, the height of success is to conceal the fact that the article is made over. For example, in making children's clothing from old overalls, use the wrong side of the material. Any child could then wear it and be happy; whereas, if the other side of the material were used, he would be affected by the fact that he is wearing made-over clothing. Try to make it fit, to make it look well, and to conceal the fact that it is made over. Fitting, construction, and style each has its place in remodeling.
Last summer I visited a 4-H Club where one of the girls brought an old coat to me which was very faded, and she wondered what she could do with it. In looking over the material, I decided it was worth making over, but it would have to be turned wrong side out. It was made into a dress, with as many panels in the skirt as there were panels in the coat, using the same pieces. Where the worn places were cut out and pieces put in, the stitching became part of the style and decoration. She was the winner in her 4-H Club and won a trip to the national club congress in Chicago, where she was placed first with this costume. It was not placed first because it was made over, but because it had style and was well made and at the same time was eco-
 
nomical. The entire outfit of the girl, including hat, shoes and underclothing, cost $11.77. In these few minutes I have had here I hope that you have learned the following essentials in remodeling: that you consider carefully the material that you are going to make over, see that it is worth the time of making; that you suit the style to what you have to work with, to the season, and to the individual. Remember above all things that anything that is worth doing is worth doing well.
NEW TRENDS IN TEXTILES May Billings Clothing Instructor, Brigham Young University
THE consumer movement that is spreading over the country at the present time has a reason back of it. It grew out of a need—a need to know more about what we use and how to buy it, a need for information. The Relief Society, clubs, and all organized groups all over the United States are very much concerned that the consumer has more information on her goods and on the labels that the goods carry in order to buy wisely. During the depression materials were cheapened in order to meet the necessity for goods of lower cost, and laboratories began to produce new fibers, new ways of producing cloth. Formerly there were only four or five basic fibers; now we are confronted with an entirely new world, and we have new textiles to work with. I was told the other day that 82% of the textiles sold from the stores for family use are laboratory-constructed materials.
Rayon has been almost one hundred years in the building. It was not until after the war that rayon could be developed into a fiber which undersold everything else. The DuPont factory, which had been and still is making gunpowder, was turned over into the peace-time process of promoting and developing cellulose products from selected woody fiber, from flax, cotton and wool, from any plant that has a woody fiber, and out of this have come some wonderful developments in the textile industry. At first rayons were sharp, glossy, hard; they pulled at the seams, they melted when sent to the cleaners, or when pressed with a hot iron. But we are now beginning to get a pretty stabilized material. The term rayon stands for a whole world of new fibers, and although there are three especially different constructions, two are very different in their chemical construction, and
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
it is necessary to understand how to iron, wash, and handle them properly. Laws have been passed to protect us a little bit. In thirty states, the Board of Trade and the Bureau of Standards signed an agreement with the manufacturers that they would indicate whether material was acetate or viscous. We need to become fiber conscious, name conscious, process conscious. Any fashion book will help you if you read it. Manufacturers have tried to get the appearance of silk and wool in the rayon fabrics, to get resilience, a lovely glow, permeability to dye. They have learned that by cutting rayon and spinning it into a yarn they can make it look like wool. Spun rayon is a dull-finish fabric, spun from shorter lengths of rayon; it has wearing quality and 800 times more of it is sold than silk. It sells usually from 49¢ to 79¢ a yard, very often as low as 29¢, according to quality. There are two lining materials that are perspiration proof, wrinkle proof, spot proof, and pull proof at the seams. Laboratories are learning how to impregnate the yarn with new processes; they even sanitize so that germs and odors will not permeate the fiber and fabric. Sanforization is a process of shrinking that is absolute. If cloth is sanforized it will not shrink, and the label will be on the bolt; but ask to see it, for otherwise you may be told it is sanforized when it is merely labeled "pre-shrunk" and is still subject to some further shrinkage.
In 1937 there was passed some very definite action on the labeling of silk goods and woolens and cottons. The International Silk Guild has adopted "all pure silk," and "pure dye silk," as two labels guaranteeing that silk is the only fiber used in the manufacturing of the material so labeled, and that added weighting is limited to 10% in colored material, and 15% in black. When too much metal is used to weight silk, the material is deficient in real silk. Silk dresses that split or drop to pieces are too highly metalized. I think 10 to 15% weighting improves the silk material, sets the dye more permanently, and prevents some difficulties that are found in perfectly pure silk. A third label, "pure silk," means only that the material doesn't have rayon in it; it might have as high as 60% weighting in it. The rayon manufacturers are proud to put the label "rayon" on goods; they want you to know that this product is not a counterfeit for silk. The old idea of rayon being inferior is passing away, and we are better dressed for it.