OPEN GATES AT TEMPLE SQUARE
THE years since the erection of these gates have seen thousands of Saints conference-bound pass herein, attending not only to the present life but providing also for the life which is to come. Those who have sought solace within the confines of this sacred block have been people whose eyes were not satisfied alone with seeing nor whose ears delighted only in hearing, but many have been the truly faithful who have yearned and desired greatly a renewal of the spirit. Thousands have come miles and sacrificed much for these few brief hours spent at conference. Many have come with sad and heavy hearts—with souls anxious and weary with the struggle and the vicissitudes of life. Here they have evaluated worldly and transitory gifts and promises and have resolved to exchange them for supreme and eternal things. Many have come with hearts filled with rejoicing at the blessings given unto them by the Father. Here their praise and thanksgiving have striven for expression, and they have worshiped the Lord with increased religious fervor. Some gates are entered reluctantly, but those who have entered these gates have done so exercising their right of free agency. They who have entered have been those who have loved the Lord, and they have come with joyful steps and anticipatory minds, for they believed and knew that here would be found a prophet of the Lord who would teach and counsel and admonish them. As the Saints have left these gates, their beaming countenances have registered that no trifling reward has been theirs for effort and time spent. Rather have they experienced a return that was great and profitable. Even as these gates are closed and locked at night, so the conclusion of each conference finds locked within the heart of each loyal Saint a memory of faith renewed, of courage strengthened, of spirits fed and understandings quickened.
Donna D. Sorensen.
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVII
Relief Society Conference April, 1940
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer