THE Iris, one of our colorful and beautiful late spring flowers, is used as the subject for the cover of this issue of the "Magazine." This is one of the few times that three colors have been used on the cover. The use of color and the blending of color obtained in this illustration have been made possible by recent developments in color photography, and through the use of special film?Kodachrome, professional type. The work of this particular color process has been entirely completed locally. The original picture and the separation of the colors by photographic process are the work of a local photographer, Mr. Norman Smith. The engravings were made by Utah Engraving Company, and the printing is the work of the Deseret News Press. Let us know how you like the finished product.
The Editor.
THE FRONTISPIECE
OF THE Open Gate," portraying the north entrance to Temple Square, used as a frontispiece in this issue of the "Magazine," is a copy of a picture used on the cover of a booklet entitled, "Sketches of Beautiful Salt Lake City," published and copyrighted by the Deseret Book Company. The booklet contains twenty-two views of Salt Lake City as seen through the eye of the artist, N. I. Gornick.
Make your home colorful, clean and protect it with Bennett's Paints
Bennett's 66 exclusive shades and tints permit every desired effect in decoration without costly mixing. You get exactly the color you want. Ask for the FREE large color chips.
BENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO. SALT LAKE CITY
Dealers throughout the Intermountain country.
"L. D. S. Training Pays!"
After Graduation? prepare for an OFFICE POSITION
Calls for office workers are increasing! Ask for information about our courses and employment service.
L.D.S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City, Utah
Index to Advertisers
Bennett Glass & Paint 7
Brigham Young University
Deseret News Press C c
Fisher Baking Co 9
W. P. Fuller Paint Co 7
Larkin Mortuary
L. D. S. Business College oc c c 283
Inside Back Cover
Outside Back Cover
c c Inside Back Cover
c c 4 d - 358
C c Inside Back Cover ee ek 888
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine