EDITORIAL
Elder George Albert Smith Observes Birthday
APRIL 4, 1940, Lion House, Salt Lake City: Seventy tall and stately, pure-white candles burned brightly, each representing a year in the life of Elder George Albert Smith, each year filled with service, kindliness and love, each year the world made better for his having lived. The candles, mounted on a seven-foot base for the birthday cake, were a real work of art—each of the four tiers banded with candy ribbons, fancy bows and flowers and topped with a candy basket filled with candy flowers. Fresh roses, iris, lilies and ferns banked the seven-yard table, covered with a handmade, white lace cloth over yellow satin. The entrance to the reception room was draped in green and gold satin by the stalwarts of M. I. A. A graphic display of pictures of monument work represented accomplishments of the Landmarks and Trails Association during his administration as president. A unique exhibit of delegate badges and credentials represented scores of conventions and types of service. A life history in photographs of Elder Smith and his beautiful wife, Lucy Emily Woodruff Smith, told of their happy life together. Her sweet influence was felt all evening. Hundreds of beautiful flowers filled all the rooms—gifts from friends, corporations, and organizations. Sweet young girls and stately matrons of abiding accomplishments were ready to assist with the serving. Boy Scouts in uniform were at assigned posts. Eight o'clock, the opening hour of the reception, arrived. Elder Smith and his family stood ready to receive their guests. Would anyone come? No personal invitations had been issued. The press, organizations, and radio had notified the community that the family of George Albert Smith would like to have the public join them in honoring their father on the anniversary of his birth as well as giving them the opportunity to say "thank you" to the hundreds of people who had been kind to him through the years. The historic door of the Lion House opened, and for two and one-half hours "friends" called to shake hands, express good wishes, and leave their happy smiles forever to be a sacred memory of a great occasion. Officers both of national and local Scouting and officers of Sons of the American Revolution, the Governor, Mayor of Salt Lake City, other representatives of city and state, officials of all churches, your neighbors and mine, youth and age, all came to extend greetings to the respected churchman. During the evening, the Boy Scouts and M. I. A. had a broadcast from the Lion House. Mr. Chuck, National Boy Scout executive, Governor Henry H. Blood, and Scouts in uniform and a soloist, appeared on the radio program. Miss Irene Jones, remarkable blind teacher of the blind, read an original poem. The joyous occasion passed into history, leaving hundreds of birthday cards, more than two thousand names in the guest book, a basket of telegrams and the memories of the smiles, kind words and thoughts of countless relatives and friends—a great tribute to a great man.—E. S. E.