VISITS OF MISSIONARIES.
	Stakes visited by missionaries from the
General Board of the Relief Society, dur-
ing the month of September, 1906.
	St. Joseph Stake, September 7, Friday,
Conference at Thatcher, Arizona, Sisters
Sarah Jenne Cannon and Emma S.
Woodruff.
	Granite Stake, Conference at the Stake
Tabernacle, September 11, Tuesday,
Sisters Julia P. M. Farnsworth and
Annie Wells Cannon.
	Maricopa Stake, September 12, Wed-
nesday, Conference at Mesa City, Ariz-
ona, Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and Sarah
Jenne Cannon.
	Weber Stake, September 13, Thursday, 
Conference at the Relief Society Stake 
Hall, Ogden, Sisters Phebe Y. Beatie and
Priscilla P. Jennings.
	Juab Stake, September 14, Friday,
Conference at Nephi in Tabernacle, Sis-
ters Ellis R. Shipp and Carrie S. Thomas.
	St. George Stake, September 17, Mon-
day, at St. George Conference in Taber-
nacle, Counselor Annie T. Hyde and Sis-
ter Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
	St. John’s Stake, Arizona, September
17, at St. John’s, Conference in Taber-
nacle, Sisters Sarah Jenne Cannon and
Emma S. Woodruff.
	Snowflake Stake, September 20, Thurs-
day, at Snowflake, Conference, in Taber-
nacle, Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and
Sarah Jenne Cannon.
	Parowan Stake, September 21, Confer-
ence at Parowan in meeting house, Sisters
Ellis R. Shipp and Phebe Young Beatie.
	Kanab Stake, September 25, Confer-
ence at Kanab, in meeting house, Sister
Margaret A. Caine. Panguitch also visit-
ed, Conference postponed indefinitely on
account of President’s illness.
	Salt Lake Stake, September 29, Satur-
day, Conference in Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Hall, Sisters Annie Wells Can-
non and Elizabeth S. Wilcox.
	South Sanpete Stake visited on Sep-
tember 7, Friday, by invitation. Confer-
ence held at Ephraim, in Ephraim meet-
ing house, Sister Annie Wells Cannon.
	This Stake had been visited by appoint-
ment in May.
	Tooele stake Relief Society conference
was held in Grantsville, Thursday, Octo-
ber 18th, in the meeting house. Sisters
from General Board were Sisters Sarah
Jenne Cannon and Margaret A. Caine.
	Iosepa colony was visited Friday, Octo-
ber 19th by Sisters Cannon and Caine ac-
companied by Sister Alice R. Woolley,
president of Relief Society of Tooele
Stake. The meeting of the Relief Society
was held in Brother Waddrup’s house.
There was a full attendance of the Ha-
waiian sisters.


