historic mansion gave the guests a most
cordial welcome, in the kindliest manner
after which we were honored by the presi-
dent in person.
	President Joseph F. Smith came into
the parlors and after shaking hands and
greeting the sisters he was asked to make
a few remarks, he said, “that he was
pleased to welcome them to this histo[-]ic
house, the thought of which called up
many memories of great occasions and
great people. He felt great honor for
the Relief Society workers, and recog-
nized the importance of the work.  The
Relief Society being the first auxiliary
organization of the Church, and organ-
ized by the Prophet Joseph himself, in
connection with Brothers Willard Rich-
ards and John Taylor, both of whom he
felt happy to say were represented here
tonight and he trusted President Young’s
descendants were also represented in this
work.
	In the day when the Relief Society was
organized, a few who are here tonight
were in the bloom of girlhood, now their
heads are frosted over, and he felt for
them the greatest veneration and respect
and he claimed they were entitled to the
love and respect of all their associates
and hoped they would have it henceforth
and forever.”
	The president further said, “We are
all engaged in a great work and the Lord
has blessed and strengthened it, and the
more it has been besieged and beset, the
broader and stronger it has become and
will become, and he said that he believed
no set of women realized this more than
the Relief Sooiety. He trusted that we
would have a time of profit and inspira-
tion in our coming together. Aunt Bath-
sheba was with us, and Sister Emmeline
Wells, and Sister Jennings and their as-
sociates, and were prepared to welcome
you all. Peace be with you, and may all
be well with you. Amen.”
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith made a
brief address and the sisters, assisted by
the musicians present accompanying them
sang by suggestion of the President, “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
	Sister Julina L. Smith made a brief
opening address and the musicians, Prof.
Clive on the violin and his gifted son,
Clifford, on the piano, rendered sweet
music that was very refreshing and pleas-
ing.

[Column 2]
	President Edwin D. Woolley of Kanab
Stake was invited to speak and responded
upon the subject uppermost in the minds
of those present. There was more instru-
mental music and Sister Margaret C.
Hull sang a solo in her usual happy style
	Sister Priscilla Jennings whose name
had been published for an address at
at the reception spoke a few moments
upon the present situation and referred
to the San Francisco disaster, and her
own impressions when in the midst of
the calamity.
	An instrumental piece thrillingly played
by Master Clifford Clive, accompanied bv
his father on the violin was rendered and
then “Count your many blessings” was
sung, Sister Margaret C. Hull leading.
	Sister E. B. Wells, was called and
while she was speaking Brother Stephens
and members of the Tabernacle choir
serenaded President Smith singing three
pieces accompanied by three cheers for
President Jos. F. Smith, who was how-
ever absent at the Richard’s reunion.
Sister Wells resumed speaking and at the
close of her remarks Prof. Clive gave a
violin solo that was exquisitely fine. Sis-
ter Clarissa S. Williams was the next
speaker and was followed by Counselor
Ida S. Dusenberry, after which Brother
Mortenson, who was present from San-
ford, Colorado, pronounced the benedic-
tion. 
	The exercises were informal and under
the supervision of President Bathsheba
W. Smith, Sister Annie Wells Cannon by
her direction calling the numbers.
	The reception though informal was
very enjoyable and the music was excel-
lent.  A vote of thanks was tendered the
musicians, and one must acknowledge it
is possible to have a feast of good things
without refreshments,
	An officers’ meeting was held on Friday
October 5, at 4:30, in the Assembly Hall,
where there were nearly all the Stakes
represented. Besides the exercises of
singing and prayer, the secretary’s yearly
report of the work of the General Society
was read, and the General Officers Board
of Directors and missionaries sustained by
vote.
	Conference meetings closed with a test-
imony meeting in Barratt Hall on Mon-
day, October 8, commencing at 10:30,
President Bathsheba W. Smith Presiding.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


