[Column 1]
THE LAWN RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIAL.
	The Relief Society of the Second Ward
scored a complete success in its Progres-
sive Lunch party at Richfield recently.
The affair was held on the lawn of I. K.
Wright, which had been placed at the
disposal of the Society.
	The lawn was brilliantly lighted with
electric lights. Tables were arranged on
the lawn. Each table was laid for ten
persons. The progressive part of it con-
sisted of the lunch being served in five
courses, one at each table. At first table
the course was served and the second
course at the next table and so on until
the fifth and last one was reached. The
first ten at table were allowed ten min-
utes in which to dispose of the tempting
viands offered at this table when the din-
ner bell summoned them to move to the
second, when ten more took their places
at table number one. This continued
during the evening.
	The menu was all that could be desired.
The most delicate viands were served and
the ladies who prepared it are deserving
of all praise for the daintiness that char-
acterized it.
	The band paraded Main street to at-
tract attention to the lawn social after
which it discoursed music on the lawn
while the lunch was being served. The
mandolin and guitar club was present and
rendered several pretty selections. Jona-
than Lloyd of the local music firm had
an Edison Phonograph stationed on the
lawn and did excellent service in enter-
taining the people. In addition to the
above musical talent a splendid program
of vocal and instrumental music was ren-
dered. Prof. Wilcox rendered a violin
solo, “The Mocking Bird” with variations.
This was so well rendered that an encore
was demanded, and Mr. Wilcox respond-
ed with Schuman’s “Traumerie,” which
was also splendidly done. Miss Eva
Stewart sang a beautiful solo entitled “A
Dream,” which showed the beautiful tone
quality of her voice to perfection. Regi-
nald Brain gave as a piano solo a selec-
tion from “Faust,” which was well re-
ceived. Mrs. Lulu Peterson sang “Merri-
ly I Roam” in splendid style. Mrs Elea-
nor Heppler played “The Old Oaken
Bucket” with variations. The selections
were appreciated. Hazel Baker sang
“Adeline” very effectively with Miss

[Column 2]
Wright as accompanist. A piano solo,
“Gondolera” by Nevin, was nicely ren-
dered by Miss Sadie Seegmiller. By spe-
cial request John Hood sang “The Cat
Came Back,” and to a prolonged demand
for an encore he responded with “Didn’t
He Ramble.” Both songs suited the
audience.
	When this program was completed the
mammoth pie was brought forth. This
was made in a wash tub and each par-
ticipant for the small sum of ten cents was
allowed one piece of the pie with all that
was attached to the end of the string.
Some of the things the pie contained
caused much merriment.
	A prize had been offered for the most
graceful eater and at the close of the
evening’s enjoyment Mr. Hayes made the
announcement that Samuel Chidester had
been awarded the prize. The booby
prize went to two of Richfield’s popular
young ladies.
	The entertainment was designed to se-
cure funds for putting a new roof on Mrs.
Johnson’s cottage, the lady is a widow
and in distressed circumstances. The
receipts will fully cover the expense of
this laudable object. The Relief Society
certainly made a hit with their lawn
social.					R. S.


