THE SLEEPING GIRL. 
	I have been very much interested in 
reading in the Woman’s Exponent Vol.
X. Mrs. Hannah T. King’s account of the
“Sleeping Girl, Sarah Carter.”
	It would seem almost incredible, were 
it not that her character was so well 
known, and her veracity undoubtable. It 
is strange that her account is so incom-
plete. She makes no mention of the 
manner in which nutriment was adminis-
tered, or how the natural functions of the 
body acted, without which life for seven 
years would be a sheer impossibility.
	I have searched numerous books on the 
subject in the library and there is no rec-
ord of a case of so long duration. 
	There is a disease called by the French
“Malade du Sommal.” It may be called 
in English “Insensible sleep,” lasting for 
days, weeks or even months. I should 
think the case of Sarah Carter was some-
thing of this description, though it usually 
terminates in a convulsive seizure or
death.
	Certain it is that many have been bur-
ied alive in this state which can be easily
mistaken for death. 
	Albert Olston says: “To many it is a 
display of weakness to acknowledge that 
there is anything beyond the ken of
man’s intellectual possibilities.”
	For instance telepathy is a power but 
little understood at present. 
	Just how one mind can send a detailed 
account of incidents to another mind at a 
distance we do not know, but it will 
doubtless be revealed to future genera-
tions. 
	So with trance or what doctors prefer 
to call catalepsy. It is a suspension of 
sensation and volition. 
	The subjects are generally women of a 
highly nervous temperament, catalepsy is 
but little understood owing to the manner 
in which morbid physical and psychical 
conditions are mixed up. In all such 
cases, there is a remarkable weakness of
of mind and will. 
	Many of the recorded cases are little 
worthy of credit. 
	When of long duration it has been 
doubted if it can exist without some de-
gree of deception


They have always proved to be cases 
open to very great suspicion. 
	But it would be wrong to class them all 
under the head of pure impostures. As in 
many instances it has been acknowledged 
that food has been administered by the 
stomach pump and the patient has recov-
ered, but only to a life of hysteria and 
extreme nervous debility. But, as 
Shakespeare says: “There are more
things under heaven and earth than are 
dreamed of in our philosophy,” and
one day all will be made plain to us all.
