[Column 1]
			ST. JOSEPH.
	The Relief Society officers of the St.
Joseph Stake met in the Thatcher meet-
ing house September 7, 1906, at 2 p. m.
President Elizabeth Layton presiding.
The General Board was represented by
Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and Sarah J.
Cannon. After singing by the congrega-
tion prayer was offered by Patriarch John
Taylor. There was an excellent repre-
sentation from the several wards.
	President Elizabeth Layton welcomed
the visiting sisters also the congregation
in a few words of encouragement and
greeting, and signified the wish of the
visitors that presidents of wards report,
as they should like to hear how the dif-
ferent branches of the society are getting
along, as also how the officers themselves
are feeling, and called upon the presi-
dents of the Pima, Central, Clifton, Gra-
ham and Thatcher wards, who each re-
ported her organization as doing the best
they could under the circumstances in
which they were placed. Some are too
busy or indifferent to attend meetings
much, but on the whole there are enough
faithful workers to keep the Relief So-
ciety work rolling on in the several wards.
	The Pima society was reported as hav-
ing a good house of their own, carpeted
and comfortably fixed up to meet in.
	The president of the Thatcher society,
Sister Olive Kimball, said they had just
turned over to the Bishop one hundred
and one dollars and ninety-five cents to
apply on the ward meeting house, and
that they have 400 bushels of wheat on
hand.
	Sister S. J. Cannon said she had not come
to tell us anything new. President Bath-
sheba W. Smith sent her regards and best
wishes to the sisters. Approved of hav-
ing many officers and not placing two or
more responsible positions upon one per-
son. It was a good thing to get all inter-
ested, and the more that are called into
office the greater interest will be taken.
Keep your children at home; don’t let
them go away to work or for amusements.
Make home so pleasant that they and
their associates will love to be there.
	Sister Emma Woodruff said, “Unity
and respect go hand in hand. If officers
are united they will respect each other.
The duty of the teacher is not always to
furnish financial help, but words of com-
fort and encouragement are often needed.”
Spoke of order in the house, cleanliness
and economy.
	Patriarch John Taylor encouraged the
Relief Society workers to press on in the
noble work which they had begun.
	Adjourned by singing. Prayer Eliza-
beth Moody.
	The Relief Society conference met Sat-
urday, Sept. 8th, conjointly with the
quarterly conference, by the courtesy of
the Stake Presidency; the forenoon was
devoted to Relief Society work. Presi-
dent Elizabeth Layton conducting the
exercises. Roll call showed ten stake
and twenty-three local officers present.

[Column 2]
President Layton reported the members
of her board alive to their duties and
working in unison. Each of the branches
in the stake had been visited once since
last conference, some of them several
times.
	Reports of local presidents continued
from yesterday.
	Sister Emma Woodruff: “Judging from
reports the sisters here are doing about
as they are in the north. A ward with-
out a Relief Society is like a man without
a wife. The Relief Society is the oldest
auxiliary organization in the Church, it is
therefore the mother of the others. The
young people should be taught to respect
the aged. Boys ought to have as much
care and consideration as the girls. Strew
flowers along each other’s paths by deeds
and words of love and kindness, and do
not wait to strew them on their graves.”
Bore testimony to the divinity of the
work.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon thought it nec-
essary for anyone to work for a cause be-
fore they could become really interested
in it, and the more they work the greater
interest they will manifest. “It is as im-
portant to care for the grain you have on
hand as it is to collect more. ” Spoke of the
great good teachers can do, if they have
the spirit of their work. “As we are
judged from the books it is very necessary
that our records should be full and com-
plete, not to have our names enrolled and
then seldom or never attend our meet-
ings.” Read an extract from the sermon
of President Joseph F. Smith upon the
Relief Society, delivered at the last gen-
eral conference, commenting on the
same.
	Sister Woodruff wanted each Relief
Society to consider the sending of sisters
to Dr. Roberts’ class to be instructed in
obstetrics.
	Counselor Salina Phillips hoped all
would do their duty that the Relief So-
ciety might become what it was designed
it should be. Encouraged Mothers’ Work.
	Counselor Olive Kimball was thankful
for the presence of the visiting sisters.
Hoped all would practice upon what they
had heard.
	President Layton was gratified with all
that had been said and done in confer-
ence. Hoped what we had heard would
enthuse us with a renewed determination
to more fully perform our duty.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
				SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
			(Concluded.)
	Afternoon session. Whitney choir fur-
nished the music.
	After singing and prayer, choir sang an
anthem. Instrumental music was given by
Annie and Vera Parkinson, and much en-
joyed.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde addressed the
conference in a spirited manner, touch-
ing the following subjects: Mothers at-
tending Y.L.M.I.A.; temple work, its

[Column 3]
importance to us and to our progenitors;
the teaching of children in regard to the
Word of Wisdom; marriage, and caring
for the amusements of children, also of
gaining and retaining their confidence;
spoke on the magnitude of the Relief So-
ciety work (3500 enrolled), loving our
enemies, despising evil speaking, keeping
the Sabbath day and all the command-
ments.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth spoke of indi-
viduality, of our work, blessings of good
husbands and children, benefits of nurs-
ing classes and knowing how to care for
our bodies; spoke of the Woman’s build-
ing and what Relief Society work in-
cluded.
	Pres. Parkinson addressed the confer-
ence on “Influence of Relief Society work,”
its progress, and spoke of prophecy being
fulfilled that was uttered at its organiza-
tion, how beautiful and ennobling its
mission was, advised kindness, self-sacri-
fice, and gave words of encouragement.
	Sister Hyde related her bearing of testi-
mony to two noted women in regard to
woman’s equality being recognized since
the Prophet uttered those words and
turned the key, which will place woman
side by side with man.
	Pres. Benson thanked the sisters for
their visit; advised the local officers to
pray for wisdom.
	Choir sang an anthem. Benediction by
Bishop H. Geddes.


