[Column 1]
THE GENERAL CONFERFNCE OF THE
		RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The semi-annual conference of the Re-
lief Society was held on Thursday, Octo-
ber 4, the day previous to the General
Conference of the Church; the program,
as published in this issue, was carried out;
it was a new departure from the usual
method of reports from stake officers.
The exercises were well rendered, and
the music, both instrumental and vocal,
was very fine indeed, and was inspiring
in its tendency and effect. The address
of welcome by the General President,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, was dignified
in tone and sentiment, and altogether
worthy of the woman and the large and
influential organization for which she
spoke so nobly and in terms of endear-
ment that touched all hearts. The re-
sponse from Sister Ella L. S. Udall, pres-
ident of St. John’s stake, was read clearly
and distinctly by Sister Clarissa S. Wil-
liams, by request of the writer, who could
not be present in person.
			RESPONSE.
	Beloved President, Officers and Mem-
bers of the Relief Society:—
	How blessed are those today who are
privileged to sit within this sanctuary and
listen to words of welcome, counsel and
encouragement from our president and
her able corps of helpers.
	Indeed, how blessed are all of Zion’s
Relief Society workers through these
representative gatherings of our organiza-
tions. No one will gainsay that to a de-
gree all may be partakers of the spirit
and light that characterizes our semi-an-
nual conferences. Many of those present
know that the societies throughout the
Church are given new life and strength
by the reports brought from the confer-

[Column 2]
ences or given through the inspired col-
umns of our EXPONENT.
	Dear Sister Smith, though only a few
of us attend conference, there are thou-
sands whose hearts are loyal to the offic-
ers of our great organization and to the
Relief Society cause, and they are with
you in spirit today. To all these thou-
sands, were they present, you would ex-
tend a welcome, and from these thou-
sands, scattered throughout the stakes of
Zion and missions of the world comes the
response of a “God bless you and those
who are called to labor with you.’,
	It fills our hearts with joy to contem-
plate the progress our organization has
made since the Prophet Joseph “turned
the key in behalf of woman. ”We marvel
at the completeness and beauty of its
workings.
	We appreciate the fact that you, dear
president, have been spared to us to testi-
fy of the divinity of the mission of our
beloved Prophet and the inspiration that
attended him in organizing and instruct-
ing our sisters of the first Relief Society,
of which you were a member and the only
one still with us.
	We are thankful for the inspiration and
strength given our work by President
Joseph F. Smith and his associates. We
are thankful for the faithful labors during
these many years of our Secretary, dear
Aunt Emmeline Wells and all the mem-
bers of the General Board. We are
thankful for the visits of the sisters who
travel throughout the various stakes, giv-
ing counsel and sympathy and encourag-
ing the Saints to renewed efforts in their
labors.
	As a band of sisters who come to Salt
Lake from time to time to attend our
conferences, we wish to express our ap-
preciation to the presiding officers for
their efforts to make our visits pleasant
and profitable. We feel it a blessed
privilege in the receptions tendered, to
mingle spiritually and socially with our
leaders in this great Latter-day work. We
cherish the memories thus afforded us.
	Though coming from points far distant,
with many of us to come to Salt Lake is
to return to childhood’s home, “that dear-
est spot on earth.” How tender the recol-
lections these visits call up—the ties of
home and parents, of friends, and of the
noble men and women ordained to lay
the foundations of our prosperous com-
monwealth. We miss them, yet we re-
joice in meeting those who remain.
	With the ecstacy of youth we look up-
on the familiar and historic landmarks,
the lofty mountains and the crystal
streams. With subdued emotions we
visit the “silent city,” where are resting
loved ones gone before.
	From all of these we turn our eves up-
on the Temple, whose majestic spires first
greet us as we enter the City. Our hearts
overflow with gratitude as we gaze upon
this House of the Lord and ponder over
the opportunities for which it is symbolic.
What a splendid close to our stay in your
midst is the spending of a few days with-
in its sacred walls, attending to ordinan-
ces for our dead, and receiving renewed
faith and courage for the work assigned
us in our Father’s vineyard.
	Ever praying for the success of Zion
and the Relief Society thereof,
	Your sister in the cause of Truth,
				E. L. S. UDALL.
	St. John’s, Arizona.

[Column 3]
	Practical Education by Counselor Ida
Smoot Dusenbery was admirably treated
and illustrated with story-telling, in her
characteristically happy manner. Sister
Emily A. Holbrook, who introduced the
“Home,” made a brilliant setting of the
subject, followed by Sister Emily S. Rich-
ards on Amusements, giving some pretty
ideas of making home pretty and attrac-
tive by devising simple methods of enter-
tainment, celebrating birthdays of the lit-
tle folks, and referred to celebrating one
ninetieth anniversary in her own home.
Prayer in the home was the subject giyen to
Sister Avilda H. Dixon, who could not come
to the conference, but Sister Belva Ses-
sions took the subject and in her remarks,
mentioned Apostle Woodruff’s promise to
her husband, which was this: “I promise
you in the name of the Lord that if you
will read a chapter in the Bible, sing a
hymn and have prayers in your home
daily, your children will never disgrace
you, and teach this to the people.” Sis-
ter Susan Grant spoke on “Harmony in
the Home,” referred to the Holy Spirit as
essential in producing harmony, thought
we should always keep the channel of
communication open between us and our
Heavenly Father by prayer.
	President B. W. Smith said she ought
to feel very proud and say a great deal,
but felt she would like some one else, and
called upon Sister Ruth M. Fox, the rep-
resentative of the Y. L. M. I. A., who
was on the stand and who spoke of our
boys and girls, referring to the Primary
Associations and Religion Classes and al-
luded to one woman in a railroad town
who gathered the little children round
about in her home at 8 o’clock in the
morning and gave them a religious lesson.
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward sang
“Home, Sweet Home” very sweetly,
which was a fitting refrain to close with.
	At the afternoon session, after the
opening exercises, Counselor Annie Tay-
lor Hyde spoke upon the “Companion-
ship of President John Taylor and the
Prophet,” a subject fraught with the deep-
est interest. Sister Hyde could barely
touch a few important points in the time,
but she spoke with great depth of feeling
and earnestness and with great emotion,
and certainly had the sympathy of the en-
tire audience, who appreciated the effort
it must be, to give even so brief a sketch
of such a vast and comprehensive sub-
ject.
	Prof. Charles Kent sang “The Seer,”
with so much power and enthusiasm as
to bring all hearts into sympathetic har-
mony with the music.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams introduced
“The Relief Society,” giving in its largest
sense its magnitude and importance, and
her own ideals and idealism concerning
its present and future growth and pro-
gress. Mentioned how marvelous the
past of the society had been, and made
some definite statements of earnest ef-
forts that had come under her own ob-
servation. Sister Williams was followed
by those whose names are on the pro-
gram who each treated the subject as-
signed to her in a helpful and most kind-
ly manner, giving personal knowledge and
observation of practical methods and
ideas of helpfulness that had been suc-
cessfully carried out resulting in timely
aid and benefit.
	At the close of these exercises Prof.
McClellan rendered a magnificent solo on


