IN MEMORIAM.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Annie Lonie Mahoney, who departed this life
Sept, 14, 1906.
	Sister Mahoney was born in Coalville, Summit
Co., Utah, April 8, 1869. She was the eldest of
the eight children of George V. and Ada I. Phip-
pen Brim, and the first to be claimed by death
which was caused by a severe attack of typhoid
fever She was born of Latter-day Saint
parents and her mother has been presi-
dent of the Albion Ward Relief Society ever since
its organization twenty-four years ago. Sister
Mahoney had previously held the position of as-
sistant secretary and had been treasurer of this
society the last five years of her life.
	She was married at the age of eighteen to Wil-
liam Mahoney, was the mother of eight children,
the youngest a babe of seven months, all remain to
mourn her loss.
	The funeral took place Sunday, Sept. 16, 1906,
conducted by Bishop Thomas E. Harper, The
choir sang appropriate hymns and the speakers
were as follows. Elder William T. Harper, of the
Cassia Stake Presidency; Patriarch Franklin T.
Prim, uncle of the deceased and Bishop Thomas.
E. Harper.
	Each paid beautiful tributes to her life and
cheerful disposition.
	The lovely white casket which held all that was
mortal of our beloved sister, was covered with
rare flowers, gifts of some of her many friends.
The ward meeting house was filled to overflowing
and many carriages followed the remains to their
last resting place.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has in His infin-
ite wisdom seen fit to remove our beloved sister
from our midst, one who has been to all an exam-
ple of patience and cheerfulness, also a devoted
wife and loving mother,
	Therefore, be it resolved by the sisters of the
Albion Relief Society, that we tender our sym-
pathy unto the bereaved family, parents and rela-
tives, and while we feel deeply the loss, we know
that she died as she had lived, in the hope of a
glorious resurrection
	Resolved that this Memoriam be put on the rec-
ord of the society and sent to the Exponent for
publication.
	Resolutions passed before the meeting of the
Relief Society, October 9, 1906.
					IDA I. BRIM, Pres.,
