RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS
		PAROWAN STAKE.
	Relief Society conference of the Paro-
wan stake was held in the L. D. S. Tab-
ernacle in Parowan, September 21st, at
2 p. m. President M. E. Ollerton pre-
siding. Sisters Phebe Y. Beatie and Ellis
R. Shipp, representing the General Board
of the Relief society. An officers’ meet-
ing followed this session, and an evening
meeting which was fairly well attended;
judging by the reports and spirit of the
conference, harmony and the spirit of
Relief Society work prevail throughout
the stake. The talks of the visiting sis-
ters were much enjoyed, though no spe-
cial instructions were given.
	The Relief Society work is progressing
and being better understood and appreci-
ated in the local organizations.
	I am in the eternal cause of truth,
		SISTER E. CRANE WATSON.
			WASATCH.
	The annual conference of the Relief
Society of the Wasatch Stake was held
in the Stake Tabernacle, Heber City,
June 15, 1906. Prest. Anna R. Duke pre
siding. The attendance was good. Sis-
ter Elizabeth Murdock gave the address
of welcome. Was pleased to see so many
sisters and brethren with us, etc.
	Minutes read and reports were given
showing the sisters to be doing all they
can along the Relief Society work. Sister
Elizabeth Wintoch delivered a lecture on
“The Sabbath Day Fasting and Prayer.”
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry, one
of the General Presidency, spoke a short
time. She gave words of praise to the
sister who gave the lecture, it was so
carefully prepared and to the point. She
urged the officers to giye the sisters some-
thing to do and they will become inter-
ested. “They will love to come to meet-
ing. Love comes through service. Teach
children to do for you and they will love
you and respect you, and you will have
their confidence at all times. We should
do right, that through our actions we will
teach others to do better.”
	Song, Gladys, McMullin.
	Sister Julina L. Smith hoped the sisters
would not forget the aged and sick people;
advised them to take a little lunch along
and make sunshine in their lives. Mothers
should teach their sons to do their por-
tion in waiting upon themselves, looking
after their clothes, etc., and also spoke
upon the principle of marriage.
	Recitation, Ella Morton.
	Sister Zina W. Card felt that if we put
into practice all that had been said we
would be much better. Parents should
cultivate patience and self-control, and
then teach the children the same.
	President Joseph R. Murdock endorsed
all that had been said and hoped the sis-
ters would take it to their ward and home
and profit therefrom.
	Singing, “Come let us anew.” Bene-
diction by Patriarch Nymphas C. Mur-
dock.
	P. S.—The sisters visiting conference
had to return home on the 2:15 train,
therefore only one session was held. The
Stake officers, visitors and ward officers
were entertained at the home of Coun-
selor Lovisa Alexander, where a delicious
lunch was served by the Relief Society
officers of Heber.
