[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Morning session of Relief Society stake
conference held in the stake Tabernacle,
September 12th, 1906. Counselor So-
phronia Stuart presiding.
	Visiting sisters were Emma S. Wood-
ruff and Sarah J. Cannon of the General
Board, from Salt Lake City. The Stake
Presidency, Prest. John T. Lasuerer and
Counselors, Bishops and several of our
local brethren were present. Opened by
singing and prayer. The roll showed 17
officers and 64 members with several visit-
ors in attendance. Minutes were read for
reference. Reports of the four wards
represented was that one-third of those
enrolled attended. Lectures and ques-
tions on Mothers’ work were followed out.
Lectures from books Doctrine and Cove-
nants, Book of Mormon and Bible, one
or the other, were given in each testi-
mony meeting with good results. Teach-
ers were active as a rule, and much chari-
ty work was done by each ward.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff said our re-
ports were much the same as other places
she visited. Among our other duties was
the saving of souls, teaching our children
to be honest, truthful and prayerful; also
to pay tithing; cleanliness and making the
home pleasant and orderly that our child-
ren might be encouraged to stay at home. 
The saving of wheat was also alluded to. 
	Stake President John T. Lasuerer said
he had enjoyed the conference. He
knew the sisters could bless and help
those who were weak in the faith, and
felt to bless the sisters who had traveled
so far to visit us.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon said their work
was among the sisters. We must use
judgment and wisdom in choosing teach-
ers in the society, there is so much good
they can do. We should sustain the of-
ficers in the work, and the taking of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT was referred to, as
an essential thing in Relief Society work. 
	Stake Counselor Isaac Dana felt an in-
terest in the work of the sisters, said let
us have faith to attend our meetings. 
	Adjourned until 2 p.m. with singing and
benediction by Counselor Frank T. Pome-
roy.


[Column 2]
Afternoon session—Counselor Sophro-
nia Stuart presiding. Opened with the
usual exercises. 
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon bore her testi-
mony to the beauties of the Gospel. Said
they had come to take back a report of
this stake Relief Society, temporally and
spiritually. Read a few paragraphs from
a sermon of President Joseph F. Smith
concerning the Relief Society. 
	Sister P. C. Matox felt to take an inter-
est in the work. 
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff said we
should be thankful for everything the
Lord blesses us with. We have in this
Church fifty-five stakes and several
missions. 
	Brother Joseph Stuart spoke of the
growth of the stakes in Zion. 
	Counselor Frank T. Pomeroy said he
was led to contemplate how much we owe
to the mothers in Israel, “for the hand
that rocks the cradle rules the world.”
The responsibility was great in Relief
Society work to comfort and help the
needy.”
	Counselor Sophronia Stuart made clos-
ing remarks and said an officers’ meeting
would be held at the close of this confer-
ence.
	Adjourned by singing, “Come, Come
Ye Saints.” Benediction by Sister Sarah
M. Pomeroy.
			ANNA E. FULLER,
				Stake Secretary R. S.

