			NEBO STAKE.
	Morning session—Quartarly conference
Nebo Stake held July 20th, 1906, at Pay-
son second ward meeting house, Presi-
dent Eliza J. Dixon presiding. 
	Roll called showed an attendance of
144 officers and members present. 
	President Dixon gave a brief report of
the stake, reported all wards visited once
since last conference; found all doing
well, spoke of storing wheat; 1,021 mem-
bers in stake. 
	Sister Caroline L. Holt of Spanish Fork
first ward gave report of her ward. Sis-
ter Mary L. Zabiska reported Eureka
ward. Mary A. Bradford reported Span-
ish Fork second ward. 
	Song by Sisters Nellie and Rose Pat-
ten, title “Sweet Vision of Childhood.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde of the Gen-
eral Society said she was pleased with re-
ports, our Father in heaven had a day
for everything, spoke of the Nebo stake
report, was pleased with the work of the
stake; sisters doing so much good work,
carrying on the same work that the Savior
did in relieving the sick and caring for the
poor, spoke of the children as the chil-
dren of God, we should not oppress them,
they are precious treasures, spoke of moth-
ers in early days gathering their children
around them and reading the Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants
every day; spoke of so much amuse-
ments, thought we should think of more
than the things of God, spoke of young
women working in Relief Society and
Mothers’ Class, said to think good and
do good, be pleasant when visiting the
sick, spoke of the Word of Wisdom as
being really necessary, even the people of
the world keeping it, spoke of our young
missionaries and what the world think
of them, that they think they are a fine
class of men; be charitable to those that
had made mistakes, our Heavenly Father

[Column 3]
don’t turn us off for our mistakes, “the
kingdom of God or nothing” should be
our motto, the Lord sends us trials to
purify us, we should not return evil for
good. 
	Recitation by Sister Earlensen. 
	Sister Farnsworth, a member of the
General Board, said it was her first time
to visit Payson, there had been great
progress in the Relief Society since first
organized by Joseph Smith, spoke of
the Relief work done in the San
Francisco disaster, spoke of the rights of
the sisters, told that they had all the
rights that our brethren can give them;
we must let our lights shine as true lights
in Zion.
	President Page of Nebo stake said he
was pleased to meet with the large num-
ber of sisters, it showed the good work
that was being done, glad to have the
sisters of the General Board with us,
said it is very necessary that we be
united, spoke of the Savior’s prayer in
the Garden of Gethsemane. We should
be as pillars in the Church to hold it up. 
We should not force our children, but
should use our influence to hold them to
the right. 
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session—President Dixon
presiding. Sister Farnsworth spoke about
the Nurses’ Class; said it was a fine op-
portunity for our sisters to become trained
nurses, wanted some of the girls from 
every stake to be trained nurses, said the
time was past for us to sit down and not
exert ourselves to improve, spoke of
Christ’s sermon on the mount; our chil-
dren should learn the lesson that it
teaches.
	Sister Hyde spoke, said Sister Smith
wished to be remembered to the sisters
and sent her love to all, was the only
woman living that received her endow-
ments in the days of Joseph Smith, said
that Sister Smith never was late at any
appointment, she has set the sisters a
good example. Said the Lord would al-
ways help us in our trials through life. 
Spoke of the Word of Wisdom in tak-
ing care of our bodies, and not work
too hard so that they would wear out be-
fore our spirits had done the work that
they were sent here to do; keep the
faith and cling to the iron rod. 
	Recitation, Sister Annie Tanner, “The
Girl Child.”
	Sister Roberts of Goshen said a mother
in Israel is a great and good name, are
we doing a mother’s part by our offspring,
do we know the responsibility that rests
upon us as fathers and mothers in Israel?
	Recitation by Sister Lavina Done. 
	President Lemmons spoke of the good
instructions we had received, that we
should put them into practice and get the
good out of them. One of the works of
the Relief Society is to take care of the
sick and the poor not only by food and
clothing, but we should help them to take
care of themselves by furnishing them
work. That if we followed the instruc-
tions of the authorities of the Church we
will never go astray. We should teach the
Gospel to our families. 
	Officers of the General and Stake Board
were presented and sustained. 
	Closed by singing “Redeemer of Israel.”
Prayer, Bishop Taylor.
		ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
			Cor. Sec, Nebo Stake.


