	The great organization of the women
of the Church, the Relief Society, of
which Sister Bathsheba W. Smith is
President, numbers over 35,000 members
in this and other lands, these women are
not all familiar with her face and fea-
tures, or with her respective character-
istics; and it does seem essential that
those who know of her position, stand-
ing at the head and front of this mam-
moth society, should have some knowl-
edge of her life and her magnificent quali-
fications.
	There has been a brief biographical
sketch of Sister Smith given in our col-
umns and in books written by our people,
but there are interesting things to tell of
foremost women aside from generalities
of where and when they were born, and
whom they married, and how many chil-
dren were born to them.
	To give some idea of the Relief Society
President to those who have not had the
pleasure of being closely asssociated with
her, a sort of pen picture, we had better
begin with her Virginian origin, its tend-
encies, or one might say, inherited attri-
butes. The innate pride of her birthright
is ever apparent, both in her manner
and appearance and she is conscious to this
day of its great value, and I maintain that
her home life in childhood, and home
training and environment were such, as
strengthened her powers of endurance in
all the best qualities, that fit and prepare
one to do battle vigorously with evil, and
to withstand temptation, all along life’s
highway. So we find this womanly wom-
an possessed of all the cardinal virtues
that so adorn and become the wife and
the mother in the home, and in society.
So far as it is possible I desire to bring our

[Column 2]
sisters into close proximity with her re-
markable and striking personality.
	In her young womanhood she was much
accustomed to outdoor exercise; horse-
back riding was to her an enjoyable pas-
time; and the woods and fields were fa-
miliar places of enjoyment where she
could wander freely and contemplate na-
ture’s most charming and delightful scen-
ery, drinking into her ardent soul all the
delicious sights and sounds that abound so
profusely in the beautiful Southland; the
songs of birds and the fragrance of flow-
ers and vines. The young maiden de-
veloped into a perfect figure, tall and well-
proportioned, with ease of manner and
grace of carriage, such as seems most na-
tural to the Southern type, a trifle lan-
guid when not employed in such exercise
as called forth strenuous activity. In the
home of her parents there was no rigid
restraint, but perfect freedom to do right
and live uprightly.
	The Gospel seemed natural when it
came to be preached and explained to her
family, and the lady of whom we are
writing knew the truth of the divine mes-
sage that came, as soon as she heard the
sound thereof, and was ready for baptism.
She left her home without regrets, for
she had found that which was “above all
price.” Happily she journeyed to the
the gathering place of the Church in
Missouri, but there experienced hardships
beyond comparison with anything of
which she had ever heard or read; finally
after severe struggles that taxed all her
strength of endurance, yet never waver-
ing in her faith and devotion to her reli-
gion, she arrived at “Nauvoo the beauti-
ful,” where a new life openeed up for her,
full of that true love and close compan-
ionship that surpasses all else in human
existence. She had sometime previously
met the man of her choice, the one that
in her own bosom she knew was to be of
all others, always her guiding star, but
now she was chosen, and became his wife,
united to him in marriage by the Prophet
of the Lord. The very fact of this eternal
union, the extent of which she had not
then dreamed, was happiness supreme,
beyond all comparison. Time with all
its changes in family life, through drifting
from one place to another, westward until
she reached the Rocky Mountains with all
the attendant trials and  hardships of the
journey, never blighted the loving fidelity
in her soul, though her loyalty and con-
stancy were severely tested.
	In her home all the homely domestic
arts and crafts and economies one might
say, found rightful place and practical
exercise; in addition to regular household
routine, were carding, spinning, dyeing,
weaving, cutting and making of house-
hold articles and wearing apparel. Her
early training in the far-off Virginia home
made her an adept in all these difficult
processes. Sister Bathsheba, as she is
often called by her friends, has always
dressed well, even in the days of home-
spun; she becomes her clothes, and if
possible she kept put away in her ward-
robe appparel for great occasions. In


my mind I have a picture of her in a neat
straw bonnet trimmed with white satin
ribbon, long strings tied in a bow under
the chin, and a dainty muslin dress and
lace scarf; always stately and somewhat
majestic, a woman one would be sure to
notice more that casually.
	One wonders in looking backward
to those days of early pioneer life,
how the women of that period had the
courage to face the situation, and adapt
themselves to the conditions and sur-
roundings withal, and to mingle in the
social festivities and amusements that
were part and parcel of the primitive life
in the settlement of these valleys.
	Unfortunately I have only given you a
faint glimpse of the woman, whose place
entitles her to the honor of “The Elect
Lady” in the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in which she stands
pre-eminent among women.	E. B.W.


