[Column 1]
PRESIDENT SMITH’S VISIT ABROAD.
	One of the noteworthy events of the
year, which we take pleasure in recording
in these columns, is the visit of Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith to the Saints in
foreign lands. It is a new departure in
the history of the Church, no other Pres-
ident while occupying that high position
has ever visited the foreign missions.
	The Saints in the countries visited
must have been overjoyed to be able to
see, and hear, and shake hands with one
so universally beloved, and one whom
they reverence, as called of God to lead
His people Israel in this important pe-
riod of time in the last dispensation.
	It is true that the President needed rest
from his arduous labors, and it is verily
true that a change is often a great benefit
to both mind and body; nevertheless, he
was undoubtedly urged by his friend,
Brother Nibley, to accompany him, as he
was anticipating going abroad with some
members of his family. Blessings on
Brother Nibley for making it pleasant
and possible for President Smith to have
this lovely sea voyage, and meet his sons
in the mission field, and the thousands
of Saints whose hearts have been glad-
dened by his presence among them.
	President Heber J. Grant, now in
charge of the European mission, would
naturally be greatly delighted and bene-
fited by the visit, and by traveling in the
Presidents’ company to the conferences
visited, and the intimate association this
labor implies.
	It will certainly be an attractive part
in the President’s life-history that he will
recall with genuine satisfaction in future
years, even if he should never visit these
countries again.
	Presumably the journey is fraught with
incidents that will result in greater im-
provements and lasting benefits to the
Church, which has now become not only
more numerous than formerly, but of
vastly greater significance in many re-
spects, in its progress and advancement
temporally as well as spiritually, not-
withstanding the opposition arrayed'
against its followers and disciples. That
the work is spreading in power and influ-
ence must be apparent to all who have
eyes to see or hearts to perceive.
	During the journey homeward the
places visited must have been exceedingly
interesting to all the party who traveled
together, but especially so to President

[Column 2]
Smith himself, as they were so closely
connected and interwoven with his own
individual life.
	The Smith cottage in Vermont, the
birthplace of the Prophet Joseph and
where stands the marble monument
erected to his memory (his uncle and the
bosom friend of the Patriarch of the
Church, his own father), and now through
his instrumentality all made beautiful in
its restoration, and a place where those
who visit may recall the scenes and mem-
ories of the past of this most wonderful
man among men. Then the grove where
the boy Joseph Smith, in his simplicity
seeking after truth, offered his first pray
er. One cannot attempt to enter into
the feelings of the man now filling the
position his uncle first occupied, while he
was standing as it were upon hallowed
ground, calling up the scene enacted
there so many years before. It must
have been an experience in the soul
such as no pen can portray. Only those
who feel most intensely the sacredness of
immortal beings could have any idea of
the sublimity, and heavenly solemnity of
such an occasion.
	Farther on he stood upon the Hill Cu-
morah, sacred as the stronghold of the
golden plates from which the Book of
Mormon was translated. Another soul-
inspiring place, full of wonderful memo-
ries, which the party also visited, was
Kirtland, Ohio, the first gathering place of
the Latter-day Saints and where the first
temple erected in this dispensation was
built by the Saints in the midst of trials
and poverty, but wherein many great man-
ifestations were given that proved the
Lord accepted the offering. Only a few
of the men and women are living today
who were eye witnesses in those gather-
ing of the Saints in that then holy tem-
ple, to testify of the power of God made
manifest on many solemn occasions when
the Saints were assembled for public wor-
ship, having come together fasting and
praying; sometimes with the Prophet Jos-
eph in their midst, and more often his
father, Joseph Smith, Sen., the first Patri-
arch in the Church; and his revered
mother, Lucy Smith, of blessed memory.
	From Kirtland to Illinois the party
wended their way, visiting the jail at
Carthage, which must have awakened a
variety of feelings and emotions inexpress-
ibly sad and replete with such memories
of the terrible tragedy that took place
there, as to be scarcely endurable by those
whose loved ones had been so cruelly as-
assinated in cold blood. We draw the
curtain upon this scene, the writer her-
self knows what a pall of blackness hung
over the city of Nauvoo, when the news
of the martyrdom came crushing like a
thunderbolt in the midst of their sorrow,
at the imprisonment of the man so be-
loved and honored.
	The visit of the party to Nauvoo was,
let us hope and believe, not only that it
was enjoyable, but profitable, and a fore-
runner of something favorable for the
Church in that once famous “City Beau-
tiful.” It is assuredly an omen for good
—could not possibly be otherwise—to
hold a conference there once again; that
fact of itself is significant.
	President Smith must have been grati-
fied with this incident, among many
others, in the visits he made here and
there to people and places of historic cel-
ebrity. The Saints everywhere, and es-

[Column 3]
pecially those who were expelled from
that city under such unaccountable cir-
cumstances, will be delighted, to know
that the spirit of the people has changed
towards those who were so persecuted in
the past, and that they would be glad to
have them come and dwell there again. 
	President Smith must have had won-
derful, and in many instances, almost
heart-rending emotions in visiting the
scenes of his early childhood—we can
scarcely say his boyhood days, for he
would only have been seven years old
when he left Nauvoo at the time of the
exodus. Tender and soulful reminis-
cences must have awakened childish rec-
ollections, as he viewed the places where
such events had transpired of which “the
half can never be told.” Words fail to
express a tithe of the story. Here and
there the historian collects and compiles
some of the most stirring episodes, but
they give only a faint idea of the reality.
	In writing this article trying to depict
some of the emotions that must have
swayed the bosom of at least one of that
party while visiting Nauvoo, on the shore
of the Mississippi, one is reminded of
Longfellow’s song “The Bridge”:

	‘And like those waters rushing
		Among the wooden piers,
	A flood of thought came o’er me,
		That filled my eyes with tears.
			*	*	*	*
	For my heart was hot and restless,
		And my lfe was full of care,
	And the burden laid upon me
		Seemed greater than I could bear.
			*	*	*	*
	Yet whenever I cross the river
		On its bridge with wooden piers, 
	Like the odor of brine from the ocean
		Comes the thought of other years. 

	And I think how many thousands
		Of care-encumbered men,
	Each bearing his burden of sorrow,
		Have crossed the bridge since then.”

	President Smith could not possibly
have refrained from thinking of the
Saints crossing the river from Nauvoo to
the Iowa side in their exit from their be-
loved homes, no doubt he remembers his
own peculiar sensations as a child and the
attendant circumstances.
	Again Longfellow:

	“This is the place. Stand still, my steed,
		Let me review the scene,
	And summon from the shadowy past 
		The forms that once have been.”


