[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK
		ALBERTA STAKE.
Exercise I.—Parents, the Child’s first
	Teacher.
	Children to be taught the principles of
the Gospel, Doc. and Cov., page 250, com-
mencing at the 25th verse. Watch and
pray always, lest ye euter into tempta-
tion. III Nephi, page 518, 18-22. Teach
the child to pray, and how to pray, and
show the necessity of its being brought
up in the light and truth. Doc. and Cov.
page 251, 33; page 331, 36, 40. Show how
and when obedience, faith and repent-
ance, should be taught in the home to
bring the best results.
Exercise 2—Moral Development.
	Certain conditions are indispensable for
the protection of children from immoral
practices. Cleanliness of mind and body,
fresh air, wholesome food and healthful
exercise, constant parental watchfulness.
Good literature. Pure and elevating
home influence. Proper associates. Men-
tion some of the best books for children.
(Juvenile Instructor, Youth’s Companion,
Louisa M. Allcotts Works, St. Nicholas,
Stories of Animal and Plant Life. Show
the necessity of keeping the child’s mind
on objects of an elevating nature. Find
some references, Dr. Maeser “School and
Fireside.”
Exercise 3.—Truthfulness a Protection
	Against Other Sins.
	Truth is the rock foundation of every
good character. Truth is courageous, it
is always power. Lying is the sacrifice of
honor. Show that a child that has been
trained to speak the truth will develop
moral courage.
Exercise 4.—Keep the Sabbath Day Holy.
	Keep the Sabbath day to sanctify it.
Deut. 5, 12-15. Isa. 58, 13-14. Doc. and
Cov., page 224, Sec. 68: 29. Tithes and
offerings. Malachi, chap. 3. Doc. and
Cov., Sec. 119. Teach our children the

[Column 2]
law of tithing and offerings, by example
as well as precept. Show results of so
doing.
Exercise 5.—Courage for the Duties of
	Life.
	Show the necessity of having a knowl-
edge that our course in life is in accord-
ance with the will of God, that our faith
in Him may be exercised unto life and
salvation. Show also that sacrifice is
necessary to obtain certain blessings.
Doc., and Cov. Sec. 6; Psalms, 27: 14,
31: 24; James II: 14-23.
Exercise 6.—Parents should Live the Gos-
	pel.
	How grand is the organization of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. Show that the various institu
tions are for the training of the young in
religious and moral culture, and that all
should give these organizations their sup-
port and derive the benefits therefrom.
Explain why example should be coupled
with precept. Show what is expected of
the parents that the children may get a
religious training. Show that peace and
contentment will abide in the home where
families live the Gospel.
Exercise 7.
	He most lives, who thinks most, feels
the noblest, acts the best. Seek to live
above the vain and foolish things of the
world. Doc. and Cov., Sec. 88: 121.
Study and learn. Doc. and Cov., Sec 88:
118; Prov. 1: 5, 16-21; John 6: 45.
Exercise 8.
	Show gratitude for blessings received,
and acknowledge the hand of God in all
things. Doc. and Cov., Sec. 59: 21; Job
1: 21; 2: 10. Whatever principle we at-
tain unto in this life, will rise with us in
the resurrection, and every blessing re-
ceived from God is through obedience to
His laws. Doc. and Cov., 138: 18 21.
Exercise 9.—Word of Wisdom.
	Given for a principle with promise. Doc.
and Cov., Sec. 89: Sec. 88: 114; 1 Cor.,
13th chap.; Doc. and Cov., Sec. 88: 125.
Prepare exercise and give views on these
subjects.
Exercise 10.—Women’s Privileges.
	Revelation given to Emma Smith. Doc.
and Cov., Sec. 25. Promises to those who
serve the Lord. Doc. and Cov., Sec. 76:
5-10.
Exercise 11.—Ethical Duties in the Home.
	No pleasure can excel the joys of a
happy home. Parents should exercise
proper control over the child. Never
punish in anger, teach the better way.
Do not always bring the children’s faults
before them, but commend their good
deeds, that their minds may build upon
goodness rather than evil. Show that
children’s rights should be respected by
their seniors and by each other. Teach
our children Loyalty to God, country, laws
and home.
Exercise 12.
	Give exercise on some woman, whose
life is recorded in the Bible.
				MARY L. WOOLF,
						President.


