[Vol4 | February 1917 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Frontispiece Francis Marion Lyman President Heber J. Grant]

Francis Marion Lyman. A Tribute from President Heber J. Grant. Francis M. Lyman, in my opinion, was the' greatest individual reformer of men of any of the leading officials of the Church with whom I have ever been acquainted. He was a natural-born teacher. There have been and are hundreds of men in the Church who started on the downward road, around whom, figuratively speaking, he put his arm, and, lifting them out of the broad way into the straight and narrow path, planted their feet firmly in the way which leads to life eternal. Many men who subsequently became prominent among leading stake officials, were on the high road to destruction, and owe their reformation and success in life, after all signs pointed to failure, to the wonderfully inspiring and reforming ability of Francis M. Lyman. He had a capacity to give himself to those who were in need, a service which far exceeds the giving of money. I learned as a young man presiding over the Tooele stake that his very presence was an inspiration and an encouragement. More than once when the labors of the Stake President seemed difficult because of my youth and lack of experience, and had almost discouraged me, I would ask Brother Lyman on such occasions to remain in Tooele for a week or two at a time and visit the various wards with me. I did not tell him that I was somewhat disheartened, but after two or three weeks' visit to the different wards, and riding day after day with him, I gathered new strength and determination to press on in my labors as well as gaining an added love of my work. I never knew a man who seemed more to love to work without ceasing in the Church than did Francis M. Lyman. I will relate an incident told by President Frank Y. Taylor: "I had with me, on one of my missionary trips, a young man who stated that he owed his manhood and spiritual life to Presi- 
 dent Francis M. Lyman. He said: 'When a boy I was rough, and did nearly everything wrong that a boy could do, and had no desire to do right. Francis M. Lyman came to our settlement, hunted me up, put his arm around me, and did all he could to encourage me to lead a better life. I refused, on his first appeal, and on many subsequent appeals. He visited our settlement during his trips to southern Utah, and I think every time he come, he hunted me up and poured into my soul the oil of gladness. For twenty long years he did this, and finally won my heart. I turned over a new leaf, resolved to do that which was right, was called on a mission, and performed it honorably, all due to the kind and persistent efforts of President Lyman. All that I am in character and in spiritual life, I owe to that man; and I think so much of him for his faith and kindness and goodness to me, that I would go through fire for him or even give my life for him if needed.' " An influential citizen in one of the stakes of Zion, had made a wreck of his life through drink. Brother Lyman reformed him. and he subsequently became president of the stake and he frequently stated to me that he would give his life for President Lyman. Such then was and is the character and spirit of President Francis M. Lyman! Upper row: Levi Edgar Young. Joseph J. Cannon. Front row: John C. Lyman, President Francis M. Lyman, Willar H Cannon. Francis Marion Lyman. An Appreciation by Alice Louise Reynolds. For many years I have lived in the home of one of Francis M. Lyman's relatives. I have met many members of the family, particularly from the south of the state. As often as I have met them I have heard them say, "Uncle Marion says this or thinks that" about a given matter. I often wondered how in his busy life he could come to know their affairs so intimately; but early concluded that God had made him a mighty counselor in Israel. I was sixteen years of age when I first met President Francis M. Lyman. He looked down at me over his glasses in his kindly, never-to-be-forgotten manner and said some things both appreciative and directive to me, every word of which I remember even to this hour. After that first meeting no matter what the circumstances, President Lyman always had time to say something to me; and nearly always had time to say something genuinely helpful. I fancied that because of very intimate association with members of his family that I was especially favored. I have never relinquished the thought that I was especially favored, only I have grown to know that I was but one of a very large class, and that there were tens of thousands of other persons in that favored group. This certainly is a quality that set him apart from most other men, for it is nothing short of marvelous that any one person could come in contact with such a host of people in the kindly sympathetic and intimate way that Francis M. Lyman did. To him surely will come that reward promised to those who seek above all else to save the souls of men, for he did strive with all his might early and late for the salvation of mankind. Whatever the offense committed, whether of major or minor character, he would be found nestling close to the offender seeking to have him see the error of his way. Face to face with one who was walking in by ways and crooked paths he did not palliate the offense but sought to have the offender realize the gravity of it; nevertheless he did not leave the offender dismayed, but hopeful and encouraged. Face to face President Lyman made his corrections. It was his wont to correct in private, not in public. President Lyman did everything in his power to encourage people in well doing; everything to let them know their good deeds were not unnoted. He once said to a young man of my acquaintance, "I hear you have a well ordered home and I am glad to hear it." "How did you hear it?" asked the young man 
 in astonishment. "I heard it," replied President Lyman, "from a mutual friend: a nurse in my family who has done service in your family." Duty was once the watchword of society. Francis M. Lyman was of that school. It is part of his life's history that during the thirty-seven years that he was a member of the Council of Twelve, he never missed his quorum meeting', if he could reach the place of meeting in a "lay's travel. The one exception to this rule, so far as is known, was the Thursday before his death occurred. Just as he was leaving his office to go home for the last time, Harold G. Reynolds met him with the remark: "I am glad to meet you. Brother Lyman, I have some missionaries in the Seventies office to be set apart." He replied: "I have never before refused to set missionaries apart, but I feel very ill and I must go home and go to bed." This was two days before his demise. His devotion to his family was one of his marked character mistics. I have often noted with what tenderness he would embrace and kiss his daughters. His genial nature is very largely reflected in his children, for as a ride they are most cheerfull in their natures. The kindliest humor possible pervaded President Lyman's conversation in his home and in his general association with people. It relieved tension and serious and embarrassing situations. Tt was not two-edged but kindly. Tt is said that the American appreciates the humor in Mark Twain, and that the German appreciates the philosophy lurking there. There was much of philosophy in Brother Lyman's humor. A story in point was *old me by a member of his family. At one time one of his sons went to him considerably wrought up. Somewhat excited he said, "Father, if I had your influence, if I had your position in the Church, I would do so and so, and so and so, and I would do it quickly and with force, I can't tell you." Putting his hand quietly upon the young man's knee, his father said, "My son, I am very much afraid, indeed, that if you had my influence you would not keep it long." President Lyman appreciated the good works of all people no matter who they might be, nor from whence they might come. His interest was in the achievement, in the main, not in the person who had accomplished the task. As he associated with people he gained his own impressions of the worth of men and women, and of their lack of worth. After a conviction had come home to him on a subject, or in relation to people, other persons were usually without influence either to change or modify that conviction. Especially impressive to me have been President Lyman's FRANCIS M. LYMAN. 67 sermons on the Sacrament and at funeral services. It was the practice of his life to partake of the Sacrament each Sabbath day. I doubt if many persons can be found anywhere who have preached as many funeral sermons as did he. It was the way in which he spoke of death that appealed to me. "Death," he would frequently say, "is just as natural as birth." We mourn at the departure of our loved ones and call it death; ,but doubtless there is rejoicing behind" the veil, such rejoicing as we feel at a birth. I began this article by telling of the host of persons who have felt President Lyman's personal influence in their lives, and of his desire that all men should be righteous and do the works of righteousness. I shall conclude by calling to your mind such matter as combines both characteristics. For years I have seen missionaries go to him anywhere, everywhere and report that they were keeping the faith. One nearby might hear them say, "You know, President Lyman, you told us, while in the mission field, to come and report to you whenever we see you." Then one would see him look straight into their eyes and catechise them in relation to their lives. A missionary from Great Britain told me this story with the utmost feeling. A man came into the Liverpool office who was unknown to the other elders. He sat there for a number of hours looking very lonely. Finally President Lyman came in. The elder approached him saying, "My name is Anderson. I come from Grantsville." "What," said President Lyman, "my old friend Anderson of Grantsville who did so much good work among the Indians?" "Yes,''' said the elder. President Lyman put his arms around the man and hugged him hard, and the man's heart overflowed and he wept. What a father in Israel he was, only the intimate thousands who loved him for just such help may testify! He has gone to his reward  how great it will be! PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT. The passing of President Francis M. Lyman brings to the Presidency of the Quorum of the Twelve no less an inspirer of youth, a lover of men, and an apostle of purity and probity of character. President Heber J. Grant now enters upon a more extended mission of usefulness. His ringing testimonies, his determined conquest of self, his mastery of business principles, will contribute to his successful leadership and ministry. This Church has much that commands the thoughtful consideration of the world; in nothing is the Church so rich as in the pure and noble character and strong and practical abilities of its leading men. We welcome the administration of President Heber J. Grant.