[Vol4 | February 1917 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: An Incident of Faith]

an incident in Washington's life  one which no one alive knows of except myself; and if you live you will before long see it verified. Mark me. I am not superstitious, but you will see it verified." Reaching the visitor's room, in which the sacred relics of our country are preserved, we sat down upon one of the old fashioned wooden benches, and my venerable friend related to me the following narrative, which from the peculiarity of our national flairs at the present time, I have been induced to give to the world. I give it as nearly as possible in his own words: When the bold action of our Congress, in asserting the independence of the colonies, became known in the world, we were laughed at and scoffed at as silly, presumptuous rebels, whom the British grenadier would tame into submission; but, undauntedly, we prepared to make good what we said. The keen encounter came and the world knows the result. It is easy and pleasant for those of the present generation to talk and write of the days of 76, but they little know, neither can they imagine, the trials and sufferings of those fearful days. And there is one thing I much fear, and that is, that the American people do not properly appreciate the boon of freedom. Party spirit is becoming stronger, and unless it is checked, will. at no distant day, undermine and tumble into ruin the noble spirit of the Republic. But let me hasten to my narrative. From the opening of the revolution we experienced all phases of fortune  now good and now ill; at one time victorious, at another conquered. The darkest period we had, however, was, I think, when Washington, after several reverses, retreated to Valley Forge. GEORGE WASHINGTON'S VISION. 85 where he resolved to pass the winter of 76. Ah! I have often seen the tears coursing down our dear commander's care-worn cheek, as he would, be conversing with a coofidential officer about the condition of his poor soldiers. You have doubtless heard the story of Washington going into the thicket to pray. Well, it is not only true, but he used often to pray in secret for aid and comfort from God, the interposition of whose divine providence brought us safely through these dark days of tribulation. One day  I remember well  the chilly wind whistled and howled through the leafless trees, though the sky was cloudless *nd the sun shining brightly, he remained in his quarters nearly the whole of the afternoon alone. When he came out I noticed that his face was a shade paler than usual, and that there seemed to be something on his mind of more than ordinary importance. Returning just before dark he dispatched an orderly to the quarteis of the officer I mentioned, who was presently in attendance. After a preliminary conversation which lasted some half an hour, Washington, gazing upon his companion with a strange look of dignity, which he alone could command, said to the latter: "I do not know whether it was owing to the anxiety of my mind or what, but this afternoon as I was sitting at this very table, engaged in preparing a dispatch, something in the apartment seemed to disturb me. "Looking up, I beheld standing exactly opposite me, a singularly beautiful figure. So astonished was I for I had given strict orders not to be disturbed  that it was some moments before I found language to enquire the cause of her presence. A second, third, and fourth time did I repeat the question, but received no answer from my mysterious visitor. I began to feel as one dying, or rather to experience the sensation which I have sometimes imagined accompanied dissolution. I did not think, reason, or move; all were alike impossible. I was only conscious of gazing fixedly, vacantly at my companion. "Presently I heard a voice saying, 'Son of the Republic, look and learn!' while at the same time my visitor extended her arm and forefinger eastwardly. I now beheld a heavy white vapor at some distance rising fold upon fold. This gradually disappeared, and I looked upon a strange scene. Before me lay stretched out in one vast plain all the countries of the world  Europe, Asia, Africa and America; I saw rolling and tossing between Europe and America, the billows of the Atlantic, and between Asia and America lay the Pacific. " 'Son of the Republic,' said the same mysterious voice as before, 'look and learn! A century cometh  look and learn!' At that moment I beheld a dark, shadowy being like an angel, standing, or rather floating in mid air between Europe and America. 
 "Dipping water out of the ocean in the hollow of his hand he sprinkled some water on America with his right hand, while he cast some upon England with his left. Immediately a dark cloud arose from each of these countries, and joined in mid-ocean. For a while it remained stationary, and then moved to the westward, until it enveloped America in its murky folds. Sharp flashes of lightning now gleamed through it at intervals, and I heard the smothered groan of the American people. "A second time the angel dipped from the ocean, and sprinkled it out as before. The dark cloud was then drawn to the ocean, into whose heaving waves it sunk from view. A third time I heard the mysterious voice saying, 'Son of the Republic, look and learn.' "I cast my eyes upon America, and beheld villages, towns and cities springing up one after another, until the whole land from the Atlantic to the Pacific was dotted with them. "At this the shadowy angel turned his face southward, and from Africa I saw an ill-omened spectre approaching our land. It flitted slowly and heavily over every village, town and city of the latter, the inhabitants of which set themselves in battle array, one against the other. As I continued looking I saw a bright angel on whose brow rested a crown of light, on which was traced the word Union bearing the American flag, which he placed between the divided nations, and said, 'Remember! ye are brethren!' "Instantly the inhabitants, casting forth their weapons, became friends once more and united around the national standard. And again I heard the mysterious voice, 'Son of the Republic, the second part is passed  look and learn!' "And I beheld the villages and cities of America increase in size and number, till at last they covered all the land from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and their inhabitants became as countless as the stars in heaven, or the sand upon the sea shore. "And again I heard the mysterious voice saying, 'Son of the Republic  the end of a century cometh  look and learn.' "At this the dark and shadowy angel placed a trumpet to his mouth and blew three distinct blasts, and taking water from the ocean, sprinkled it out upon Europe, Asia and Africa. "Then my eyes looked upon a fearful scene! From each of these countries arose thick black clouds, which soon joined into one; and through this mass gleamed a dark, red light, by which 1 saw hordes of armed men who, moving with the cloud, marched by land and sailed by the sea to America, which country was presently enveloped in the volume of the cloud. And I dimly saw these vast armies devastate the whole country, and pillage and burn the villages, cities and towns which I had beheld springing up. As my ear listened to the thundering of cannon, clashing of GEORGE