[Vol4 | February 1917 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: February Entertainment Morag]

February Entertainment. By Morag. "We gladly indite you this note, and invite you On Washington's birthday to come And join in a hearty, patriotic party, With friends who will make you at home." Signed, Lottie and Ella Arbor. The boys found this note in their mail, on their return from school. "A jolly invitation," said Ernest Plackett to his chum and room-mate Fred Parker. "Shall we go?" he continued. "Sure we will," returned Fred. "Mrs. Arbor is the lovliest mother I know, and makes a fellow feel right at home at once. My mother died years ago, and I always think of her whenever 1 see Ella's mother  while Ella  she is such a jolly girl friend. Lottie suits me O. K.," said Ernest, "so it's settled, we'll go." The Arbor home was ablaze with light and flags, as the boys left the suburban car and took the short-cut across the fields. Arriving, they were welcomed by the girls and introduced to the assembled company. Each member of the family had invited one friend and they were all busy. Old Major Pursell, a civil war veteran, was relating some of his experiences, while in a corner his wife, and mother Arbor, were reminding each other of the happy days when they were girls. Mara and her lover John Strange were sitting on the broad window seat. Harold was busy showing his collection of flags to his boy chum, while Jim and baby Lilian romped in the dining room with two of their cousins. Only Charlie seemed alone  his thoughts were far away in the Hawaiian Islands where a fair haired maiden was engaged in missionary work along with her parents. "Cheer up, Chad.," said the lively Jim. "Nora will soon come home. You know her father expects his release as soon as school term is over, and then  " "Ah then" sighed Charlie. "Yes, then," returned Jim, "it will be welcome parties, announcement affairs, showers and a wedding. I'm to be her bridesmaid, too," Jim continued, throwing back her curls, "am I not?" "Now. children," said father, "our entertainment will commence." And in a short fervent prayer Henry Arbor returned FEBRUARY ENTERTAINMENT. n thanks to the gracious Heavenly Father for the glorious privileges they enjoyed in the land of the free, and for the inspired constitution of the country, and for the great men who labored and died to bring freedom and liberty to the people. The twins then played some patriotic airs, and all present sang the national anthem. Major Purcell then gave reminiscences of the war, and this was followed by a reading by Mara, of Lincoln's favorite poem, "Oh Knox. why should the Spirit of Mortal be Proud?" written by "It's Ernest's turn now," said Lottie, with a coaxing glance at the broad-shouldered boy. "Give us a story, Era., tell us that one you related at devotional last week at school, 'A Perfect Tribute.' " Thus encouraged the boy told the pathetic story of the great Lincoln and the dying soldier. when "I Ernest know concluded. that Gettysburg speech, too," remarked Harold "Tell me a story, muwer," lisped baby Lilian. "There was a little boy, an' his fa'ver had a cherry tree, and he cut it all down with his little hatchet," she said. "Bring in the cherry tree," cried Jim. and a large, paper cherry tree was brought in and pinned on the wall. Each one was given a paper hatchet, and, blindfolded, tried in turn to chop it down. A number of other games followed, inter spread with patriotic songs, and then at 10:30 refreshments were served consisting of cherry pie, cake and sherbet. Raising their water glasses high Mr. Arbor proposed the following toast: "Here's to the tree and the cherries it bore. Here's to the hatchet that smote it full sore. Here's to the lad that was honest and true, Here's to his colors, the red, white and blue. Here's to his sword with the laurel entwined. Here's to the hero in all hearts enshrined."  Washington, Arthur Guiterman. Patriotic Salad, No. I. Scoop out Jonathan apples, make salad of chopped celery, nuts and apples. Serve on blue plates with small, white paper doilies in the red apple oups. 
 Patriotic Salad No. 2. Ripe tomatoes may be used instead of apples. Entertainment Notes. Dickens' birthday occurs in February, and a Dickens' evening could be arranged  either a costume character party, a literary evening, or a series of tableaux. February 27 is Longfellow's birthday, and a similar affair might be arranged from his works, tableaux, readings and songs. Valentine Dayparties are very popular.