Social Service (Fourth Week in May) PERSONALITY STUDY: Doing Things DIFFERENTLY (Based on Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, pp. 217-237) Sometimes we pride ourselves upon having reached "the highwater mark of human achievement." We point with confidence to this or that as evidence that we possess certain important essentials of a truly great civilization.

At one time, it may be material advances we seem to be making?our industrial and commercial undertakings, our farflung territories and other material possessions, our five-year plans, our big navy, our per capita wealth; in short, our material well-being and efficiency.

It would seem that these things should be had at all costs.

At other times we quote with approval, as we have done in these lessons, that "the supreme and ultimate product of civilization is two or three persons, talking together in a room;" or that "'there is no greater job and no more profitable undertaking than the improvement of our own lives;" or that '"'persons, not things, represent the only true values;" or that "the ultimate test or measure of the worth of an institution is the kind of personality it tends to produce"?in short, abiding personality values.

These last standards often must go a begging for anything but a timid, non-aggressive presentation.

On every hand we meet with false, trivial, or short-sighted standards for judging the success of a life or of an institution.

To make things more confusing these are often urged upon us by prominent leaders.

Some would judge a tree by its roots, a person by his ancestors, or an institution by its supposed origin. (Matt. 7:15-21.) Others rely on evidences of wealth or power.

Still others seem to worship the god of efficiency?glibly prating about "a religion worth having" describing meanwhile a social system so crassly materialistic as to ignore utterly that our Heavenly Father yearns for our welfare, that man is an eternal being: capable of progress even beyond this life and that adequate opportunity for the exercise of his free agency is absolutely necessary for him to achieve the rich full life that Jesus came to reveal. (Jno 10:10; P. Of G. P., Moses 4:1-4.) Throughout this series of lessons we have emphasized the importance of human values as contrasted with mere physical property or things.

We are learning to fully appreciate the fact that physical things and even great social institutions are merely means toward ends, but that human beings are ends in themselves?capable of infinite and eternal development.

In our present lesson what does our author hold before us as most significant human achievements, as the "greatest asset of any civilization?" What does he disparage as being unworthy and unfruitful human enterprizes?

Read the chapter critically and determine points of agreement and disagreement as well as your best reasons for the same.

If we have caught the spirit of Overstreet's book as shown from the beginning on, we can recognize that here again he is trying to make us accept the proposition that we really can change ourselves and others for the better, that if we care enough about it we can be much more intelligent than we have been in carrying on what he calls the "major art of life." He says that we should overcome certain habits of mind that hinder our development and actively cultivate other habits that make for worthwhile initiative and originality.

It does not require an unusual amount of social insight to recognize all about us examples of the "tabu habit of mind," the so-called ""housewife-mind," "pious fixity," "cookbook science," and other "rigidities and intolerances." The spirit of fearless and independent adventure coupled with a sufficiently disciplined sense of responsibility is indeed rare.

Especially is this so when it is proposed to extend the methods of scientific research beyond the field of the physical and mechanical into the realm of the emerging social sciences.

Why do so many people conceive of and worship a non-progressive Deity?

Why do they regard their own salvation as a gift, at least as something not to be achieved mostly by themselves? 'Why do most people "remain far below their limit of efficiency even when it is decidedly to their interest to approach it, and when they think they are doing the best that they are capable of?" Why are most of us so "passively acceptive' when we should be stirred by a divine discontent?

We have centuries of lazy customs and socially inherited institutions back of us which tend to make 194 us satisfied with letting things simply take their natural course.

The old laissez faire doctrine when explicitly stated is sometimes recognized as at least theoretically unsound, but how many of us, nevertheless, act as though social progress is bound to automatically take place and that in due time the Millennium will be forced upon us.

What tremendous psychological inertia must be overcome to put on foot the most commendable programs for widespread social welfare!

In the present business depression there are plenty of people with really good plans for overcoming the ills which so long have been afflicting us, but it is another thing to get people generally to adopt any.

Of them.

For example, why are there not more sincere and widespread efforts made to cultivate less extravagant and less selfish personal habits?

The detailed specifications implied in this simple proposal could be furnished and they would be acknowledged as good except that they wouldn't work?our inherited and acquired human nature being as it is?astonishingly fixed especially when we want the other fellow to make all of the disagreeable efforts involved.

But if people could be motivated to actually achieve, each for himself, the new, less extravagant and less selfish habits, how long would the evils of the 'depression last?

There are a number of hopeful signs that people are no longer extremely afraid of changes in our social order.

Modern inventions have made us more aware than ever of different existing social customs throughout the world.

Tremendous social, political, and economic experiments are actually taking place and being watched with interest if not with approval.

We are, perhaps, less inclined than ever before RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to have handed down to us mere authoritarian or dogmatic solutions of social problems.

Mere "piety" terms or personal authority don't go with the rising generation in matters that can be determined on the basis of the impersonal presentation of facts.. This new freedom is bound to lead many to throw out the child with the bath and to adopt plans that will surely prove to be impractical, but whether we like 'it or not people are going to try their hands at doing things differently.

Let us be found among those who will be counted as creative forces in the impending social reconstructions.

To do this we must not be unmindful of the tested values from the past that deserve to be perpetuated.

Neither should we be so timid or so lacking in true insight that we cannot properly appraise many promising elements that are proposed for at least a fair trial in the society of tomorrow.

A Few of the Possible Problems for Class Discussion 1, What important things would have been lacking in the benevolent despotism which Lucifer would probably have established if his plan had been accepted? (What elements, if any, in existing social systems remind you of this free-agency destroying plan?' 2. Explain what you regard as the ultimate test of the worth of an institution.

Relate in your own words the story of "The Three Rings" from Lessing's Nathan der Weise (See Improvement Era, February, 1932, p. 209). What would it mean for Latter-day Saints to accept the challenge therein presented?

What would it necessarily imply in the way of doing things differently? 3. Comment on 2 Nephi 9:16, 38 and Mormon 9:14 in relation to LESSON DEPARTMENT whether or not we should neglect opportunities here and now in the hope that a moral transformation will be easily or miraculously accomplished during the resurrection.

Mention some of the outstanding traits of a truly progressive person.

Are there people who simulate a progressive attitude?

How do they do it? 4. Read the sentences in the text in which the following phrases occur and comment briefly on each: "unconscious rationalization," "monogamic marriage," "no margin of uncertainty," '"'almost more essential," and "horror of non-conformity." 5. Read the Social Service lesson in the March, 1931 issue of the Relief Society Magazine, and on the basis of this discuss as fully as you can the nature and development of worth-while initiative and originality. 6. Discuss problems 3 and 4 of this same former outline of this lesson. 7. It has been said that the poor and the relatively wealthy among us can and do get very good hospital care when this becomes necessary. 195 An important social problem that has not yet been tackled is the adequate provision of reasonably well trained and not too expensive nurses for the members of the middle class when they need such attention.

In his address at the recent Brigham Young University Leadership week Dr. Middleton stated confidently that he believed that the Mormon Relief Society women could and would solve this problem as far as our particular society is concerned.

What do you think of this problem and what specific suggestions do you have to offer? 8. In her Leadership Week lecture Countess Tolstoy stated that in the Russian Soviet so-called experiment, very important religious and personality values had been ignored.

According to your understanding of the situation what evidences are there in favor or against her contention. 9. Read the sentences in the text which begin with the following phrases and comment briefly on each: ''Cook-book art," "So likewise do," "The same thing is true," "Bacon grouped these," "That desirable attitude" and "The first step."