EASTER TABLE SUGGESTIONS Mary Grant Judd Member, Relief Society General Board desire to create. The little boy with his tinker toys may grow into the man who will build bridges. The little girl making mud pies to be baked in a make-believe oven may, in later years, become a proficient cook. And cooking is a creative art. Closely akin to the art of cooking is that of table setting. It is surprising how the creative urge Can be satisfied through this simple medium. Most up-to-date cookbooks explain the proper way to set a table for various occasions, so I won't go into that, except to say in passing that here one finds those basic principles of art—repetition, balance, and rhythm—and that a well-set table is indeed a thing of beauty. No matter how desirable, it iS often impossible in this high-geared age, for the members of a family to eat all of their meals together, but the dinner hour should be an exccption. Try to serve attractive-looking, palatable, and_ well-balanced food in an unhurried and congenial atmosphere. Use imagination in varying your menus and have occasional surprises for the family in the way of table decorations. You will be pleased to see how they will respond. Take the Easter season, for exPage 258 Tae is in all of us an innate ample. How important a child is made to feel if his colorful basket of easter eggs is used for the centerpiece of the family meal. The favor illustrated here was given to each of a group of mothers at an April dinner in one of the wards. Later, to the delight of the children, the favors did double duty by gracing many an Easter basket. It is to be regretted that the color of this make-believe chicken cannot be shown, for it is very pretty. To make the favors you dye eggs by the usual method in any desired colors. Dip small, fluffy feathers (longer TABLE SETTINGS AND FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS for the tail than for the wings) in diluted vegetable coloring, and spread them to dry while you mix some frosting of powdered sugar and water to a consistency that can be molded in the fingers. This is tinted red for the comb, yellow for the beak, and as near as possible the color of the egg for the other parts. A wad of frosting holds the chicken's head (which is half a jelly bean) in place, and it supplies the medium for attaching the feathers and the vanilla wafer which forms the base. 259 Here is another idea for an Easter favor which you may prefer. Very cute miniature Easter bonnets may be made by using the small size paper doilies for the brim and a nut cup pasted upside down in the center of the doilie for the crown. Decorate the hat with bits of ribbon, feathers, tiny flowers etc., and place them at each place on a stand made by cutting a straw in half and sticking it in a gum drop. For the center of the table use an untrimmed hat with flowers spilling out of it. [This is the first in a series of short articles on table decorations, flower arrangements, and related subjects. In the coming months Sister Judd will present more suggestions for effective seasonal decorative arrangements.—Ed.] o_>