[Vol52 | June 1965 | Page 441 | The Home | The Bride in a | Summer Setting]
right), which are hollowed out to fit the ends of the dowel stick, and are nailed to the uprights. The bucket pulley is made of two circles of 344" plywood cut 8 inches in diameter, and one piece of 34" plywood cut in a circle 6" in diameter. The smaller circle is then placed between the two large circles, and the three parts are nailed together. A hole is drilled in the center of the pulley so that the dowel stick can be placed to reach between the uprights to hold the pulley in place. For the roof of the well, use a piece of corrugated cardboard 36" square, scored in the center so that it will bend in half to make the pointed roof. Fill in the triangular ends of the roof with pieces of cardboard to fit the openings, and nail the completed roof to the crosspieces on each side. For the rim of the well (which will be fitted around the top edge of the original squ

(Continued on page 477) i i i ee The Bride in a Summer Setting Hand-sewed Gowns and Hand-decorated Wedding Cake Submitted by Josephine Prinster, President, Grand Junction Stake Relief Society The Bride's Cake White Cake Made and decorated by Elsie Wright 1 c. Butter (or white shortening) 1 1/3 c. Sugar 3 c. Cake flour, sifted 14 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Soda lc. Buttermilk 1 tsp. Almond extract 14 tsp. Lemon extract 6 egg whites 1 tsp. Cream of tartar 2/3 c. Sugar Cream butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Sift flour, soda, and salt together. Add alternately with buttermilk and flavoring. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites to which 2/3 cup of sugar and 1 teaspoon cream of tartar have been added. Bake at 375 degrees for thirty to forty minutes until lightly browned. This makes a cake large enough to serve 20 people. If a larger cake is desired, it is best to make the recipe again rather than doubling or tripling the batch. Buttercream Frosting Beat until very creamy (electric beater may be used) 114 c. White shortening 14, tsp. Salt almond extract to taste 9 c. Confectioner's sugar about 14 c. Water For decorating, the frosting must be firmer, so the amount of water should vary with the purpose of the icing. PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT BRINK ARRANGEMENT BY LANOR ROWE a rs _.

are frame), cut a circleshaped piece of cardboard (outside measurements 35" in diameter and 6" wide), making a hole in the center of the circle. Cut one side of the circle open so that it can be fitted around the rim (top edge of the well frame). Repeat the process and make another circle for the bottom (base) of the well. Where necessary, notch the circles so that they can be fitted neatly onto the square wooden frame. A piece of heavy corrugated paper (in brick design) 34" high and 114" long is then arranged as a covering around the well and is tacked to the frame. Hang a cardboard bucket (or a small waste basket with a bale fastened to it) to the pulley. The rope for attaching the bucket, the bucket itself, and the pulley are sprayed with gold paint. The roof of the well (both the top and the underside), the uprights, and any other visible wooden parts of the well are also sprayed with gold paint. Flowers are arranged in the well bucket, with sprays hanging gracefully over the edge. Potted plants or cut flowers of any kind available may be arranged along the rim of the well and placed at the base of the frame. Gifts for the bride are placed inside the well, each gift package containing a special wish for the bride—in harmony with the "wishing well." Smaller wells made of cardboard or paper may be used as table decorations, and very small wells make appropriate favors. This wishing well provided the theme for 

 Hulda Parker at the time of her marriage to Elder S.

Zone 7 CANADIAN ROCKIES AND NORTHWEST TOUR 15 days August 8-22 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR 8 days August 22.29 NEW ENGLAND AND CANADIAN FALL TOUR 30 days Sept. 4—Oct. 3 Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 479 101