An Orchid Root By Lorene Pearson
"IT'S my fault for bringing you to this country where you knew no one," Ben said helplessly. "I didn't know women were so different, so lonely away from their kin. I thought you'd take up with the folks around here." He looked over at Sadie's head bowed numbly over her hands and the still, fixed stare that saw nothing. Terror gripped him. The life seemed gone out of her once bright face. Blundering on he tried to soothe, "And now with her gone—" Those last words stabbed Sadie back to consciousness. Sobs tore at her heart, sobs that could not be eased, even by Ben's solicitous hand on her shoulders. What was there to live for? Lucy had been everything to her. Now there was nothing, nothing. Through her sobs she groaned, "Lucy is dead!" Ben got unsteadily to his feet. "Will you be all right—while I go out and make—arrangements?" Sadie controlled herself by sheer force of will. Poor Ben, he knew no one to call in and there was nothing else for him to do. She could help at least by controlling herself until he was gone. But something happened. She could not cry after the door had closed behind him. The bitter grief could not spend itself but sawed along her throat with desperate unrelenting stress. She walked unsteadily to the window to look out in an effort to find relief but the hated landscape of the western Wyoming country town only accentuated the dismal future she saw before her. Why, oh, why had they come here? No one cared. There was no one to help her. The rows of dull unpainted houses, the dusty gray of chilly March streets criss-crossed between the blocks mechanically. There was no life, no feeling. She was at its mercy now. Lucy had been her all, but now—there—was—nothing— She turned away and fell across the couch. "Mrs. Beckwith!" called a far away voice, as if from a dream. She roused. There it was again, "Mrs. Beckwith!" There was a gentle tap on the door. Sadie managed to sit up by the time the door was opened and a total stranger in a clean house apron walked in confidently carrying a great white cake on a lovely green platter. "Just thought you might need something tasty about," said the woman. "As soon as I heard I got out my mixing bowl and I finished it just this very minute." Sadie looked at the woman, not 208 quite comprehending it all. Quite casually, as if they had known each other always, the stranger put the cake on the little table by the window, pulled up two chairs and said, "Now if you'll tell me where the glasses for water are and a couple of plates and forks, I'll just sit here and have a bite with you. I'll bet you haven't eaten for days." "Why—no—I," Sadie stumbled, "and it does look so good. I'll go get the plates myself." A patch of yellow sun lay across the table-cloth between them. Two green plates with the exquisite slice of white cake in the middle and this strange comforting woman seemed a bit of fairyland conjured up out of fantasy, or fever. The woman admired Sadie's plants and gave an account of an orchid she had brought to flower after seven years of patient tending. A lovely thing it was, delicate lavender and white and gold. "You know," she said, "in places like this town a body has got to do a great deal to bring beauty into their lives. So I says to myself when I first come here, just because you live in a place like this there ain't no reason why you can't have an orchid just like the ladies in beautiful cities. It opened just last week, Mrs. Beckwith, after seven years. But it is the most beautiful thing I have ever seen. It sure does take a long, time to get the best things doesn't it? And a body has to go about getting the root for himself at that. Well, I must go along now." Sadie was on her feet and beside the departing woman in a moment, "Why did you—come?" she asked. The woman looked at her a long understanding moment, tears standing in her eyes. "I belong to our Relief Society here and we are always taught to help those in need. And since I got the orchid root I've lost three, Mrs. Beckwith, and I RELIEF SOCIETY The MAGAZINE know the first few hours are the worst you'll ever have in your life." At the door she turned and added, "There's one more bad time, that's right after the funeral. If you need me put a white cloth in your window. But I don't want to intrude."
TWO days later Ben brought Sadie from the cemetery and let her out at the house. "I'll be back, just as soon as I take this car back to Jake. Sit there on the step if you don't want to go in. I'll be back in a jiffy, honey." Sadie dropped down on the first step. She couldn't go in, never could she go into that house again. If she could just cry, but she couldn't do that either. There was that horrible sawing in her throat and insanity pressing tight against her brain. The little casket, the clods of dirt, oh God, it was cutting her heart out of her body. Her numb hand fumbled in her purse for a tiny bottle she had hidden there that morning when they were getting ready to go to the Church, a tiny silvery bottle with a liquid that would ease the horrible devastation in her heart. "I knew," she moaned, "that I loved her and naught else. But now it's too late—too late." The morning newspaper, neglected on the step, fluttered up before her eyes in a gust of wind. She paused in her numbed searching and read the headlines automatically. Something bothered her and she read again. TWO KILLED IN AUTO WRECK, father and daughter overturn in ditch east of town. Why, thought Sadie, they lived in the next street. I've seen that dear little mother bidding them goodbye in the morning as he went to work and the girl to school. Now they are both gone and there is no one left but her.
Automatically Sadie got up, unlatched the door and stepped within. She threw her hat and coat over the patch of yellow sunlight on the little table by the window and went straight to the kitchen. Her apron hung by the cupboard in its usual place. Were there eggs? Good. And there was flour, of course. Butter? What luck. The squeak of the cupboard door was strangely comforting. AN ORCHID ROOT 209 Never before had she been so strongly aware, that, as one works for others, one loses oneself; it is not that the poignancy of your own tragedy is any less great but that the dross of sorrow is drained away and the rest transmuted into the beautiful and lasting. And the rule was to do for those in need. She, too, had found an orchid root.