SECOND SPEAKER We come now to perhaps the most vital part of our magazine—the lesson department. I could not begin to suggest the fields that, through the guidance of this department, we have explored; the studies we have pursued year after year. But we follow definite lessons planned by expert educators in four different fields. Last year we studied Church history, Christ's beatitudes, literature, and social service. We are especially grateful for our outlines in literature, knowing that one cannot approach unguided a field as wide as mankind itself. We have pursued our studies humbly, realizing the truth of Carlyle's assertion: "Of all the things that man can do or make here below, by far the most momentous are the things we call books." Through literature we have been better able to understand our neighbor. Under social service work we have paid special attention to the study of the child, realizing that after all the rearing of children is women's most important work. (She goes up right, standing near the magazine. Soft music is heard: "Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd." House lights are turned out and the spot light used. The cover slowly opens, disclosing a child holding a picturebook, doll, or other toy. She sustains the picture while the reader recites. Music dies out.)
READER "My Star" by Helen M. Livingston "A star shines in my path so bright It lights my way both day and night. The wisemen will not see it though The shepherds may not ever know. But all along its lighted way I walk with joy. Then some glad day; Within my arms my babe shall rest And nestle sweetly on my breast." (Aug., 1933)
OUR MAGAZINE—A PAGEANT
(Again comes softly "Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd" as the child goes to the second speaker up right. As the reader's voice is heard, the music dies out.)
READER Life would be dull indeed were it not for our moments of inspiration, when we dwell in the "land of faery, where nobody gets old and crafty and grave." (Music plays "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning." The cover opens slowly, representing "Inspiration" clad in a Grecian gown. She holds a lantern or other light high over her head and is peering into an unseen world. She holds the picture until one verse has been played, then she comes out of the magazine, remaining, however, within the circle of the spotlight. A little child runs to her from one side of the stage, and the music dies out.)
INSPIRATION Who are you?
CHILD I am a very nice thought. (Another child runs from the other side of the stage).
INSPIRATION And who are you?
SECOND CHILD I am another very nice thought.
BOTH CHILDREN We have many playmates; would you like to see them?
INSPIRATION Not too many at once. But at some time they all will be welcome. (With the children clinging to her she addresses the audience. ) If you have learned from vales of sorrow drear What gives unto your soul its inner light, Withhold it not from him who stands below, His eyes upon the height. For even from a little thought has sprung Deeds that are mighty—in the end sublime; A Resurrection springing from the mind May be the outgrowth of your thought—or mine. (Music: "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning." After a line or two the poetry group goes slowly back into the magazine, followed by fiction. All this movement must be very slow. The first and second speakers go out with the first child, followed by the cook. Inspiration turns slowly, leading the children out; the cover closes and the music dies into silence. Softly the soloist begins "O My Father." After a line or two the house lights come up, and she sings to the end of the song.