Street Trees of Utah Towns are Worthy of Better Care By Rufus D. Johnson, Tree Warden, Salt Lake City
IT was the Irish writer, Shaw Esmond, who paid Salt Lake City one of the most gracious compliments the town ever received. He wrote: "There is a City of Dreams in America as little known so far as I have read her guidebooks as one of Rider Haggard's Lost Cities of Africa. It is easily the most beautiful city I have seen on the North American continent. I think it must be one of the most beautiful cities in the world." Since Mr. Esmond is a native of the green isle, we must expect a bit of blarney from him, nevertheless, there is much truth in what he says. Salt Lake is in fact beautifully situated from a standpoint of natural setting, but much of its charm is due to the vast number of trees which spread out on benchland and valley floor like a veritable forest. What may be said of Salt Lake in this respect is true also of most of the towns of the state, for, to their everlasting credit, the founders of Utah were a race of tree planters from the very beginning.
WHEN the creaking wagons of the pioneer train emerged from the mouth of Emigration canyon, no groves of green crowned trees waved them friendly welcome. One sturdy juniper near what later became Sixth East street and four or five narrow-leaved cottonwoods at Third South and Main streets were the sole tree reception committee. Of course the meandering stream banks were fringed with willow, dogwood, choke cherry and other native growth, but these were low growing and more like shrubs than trees. Except for the conifers of the mountain sides, that is, the pines, firs, spruces and junipers, Utah is scantily provided with good native trees. Box-elders and cottonwoods were plentiful in the canyons, but these are both species of rather inferior quality. The better kinds, such as large-toothed maple, alder, birch and hackberry are all trees of small to medium size, and none of them are particularly adapted to town and street use. So the early settlers were confronted with a pressing need of trees that would transform the sage strewn acres of the valley into something resembling the tree-studded lands they had left behind. While in many instances small trees and cuttings of the larger willows, poplars and the like were brought in the earlier pioneer trains, most of the trees of the first planting cycle were obtained from seeds brought across the plains. These included black walnut, ailanthus, black and honey locust, catalpa and possibly a few others. Lombardy poplar cuttings were brought from St. Louis by William Wagstaff in 1853. Mulberries were imported at an early date in an endeavor to establish the silk industry. Many seeds and plants were brought from California by returning members of the Mormon Battalion and other travelers. Naturally the vital need of the settlers was to first establish fruit trees and berries as a source of food supplies, but hand in hand with this endeavor, a valiant struggle was maintained to create beauty, supply cooling shade and make for maximum health assurance by a liberal planting of ornamental trees.
As settlements extended throughout the state, this tree planting practice was carried to the most remote village, until today it is doubtful if there is a town in Utah that does not boast the beauty and comfort of tree lined streets. The one feature which dulls the edge of our satisfaction at this condition is the fact that early planters did not have a free choice of the best varieties. As a result, the majority of our plantings have been fast growing, short lived species which have quickly arrived at maturity and have become a liability rather than an asset to the various communities. For instance, box-elders in many locations have a life span of but 30 to 40 years. Then they begin to die of various diseases or become brittle with age and are easily damaged or destroyed by wind. Poplars (cottonwoods) become overlarge and constitute a menace to life and property. They uproot pavements, clog sewers and exhaust the soil of surrounding lawns and gardens. In short, at the age a high grade tree is just coming into its prime, trees of the poorer sort are ready for the axe. Perhaps the most outstanding planting error of the past was the tendency to set trees too closely together. Trees must have light in order to function properly and when they are crowded, there is constant competition among them for the life giving sunshine. Thus they are forced upward, fighting for a place in the sun because there is no room UTAH 219 for them to develop outwardly. Unable to grow into the graceful, rounded forms which Nature intended them to have, they assume narrow, straggling shapes, utterly lacking the beauty they should exhibit, and becoming sources of danger through excessive height. This condition encourages that type of mutilation known as "topping," a reprehensible practice which destroys any lingering attractiveness such a tree may possess. The remedy in such a case is not the ruthless hacking of all the crowns, but a removal of the surplus trees so that the remaining ones can round out into natural form. Overplanting is almost as grave an error as underplanting.
WE are grateful to the early planters for the heritage of wonderful trees which have brought us joy and comfort through the years and which have made Utah towns noted throughout the country. But now that we have an almost unlimited choice of tree material and can profit by the mistakes of the past, it is time that we plant better trees in better fashion and so pass on to those who follow us an even more delightful tree heritage than we have enjoyed.
IN Salt Lake City and several other towns of the state, street trees have been placed under the supervision of a shade tree commission. This commission designates the kinds of trees which shall be planted in each street, stipulates the spacing, indicates how pruning shall be done and in general prescribes the care and treatment of all public trees. In order that uniformity shall prevail, all work is done under permit from the commission. Under the old system a street would often show as many different trees and styles of planting as there were houses on the block. Each owner planted according to his whims and the result has always been a jumble of species and spacing that is far from the ideal. Of course there is a certain amount of charm in any tree, but since the street is communal property its treatment in planting should be along lines that will conserve the best interests of all concerned. The trees selected for planting in Salt Lake were chosen for hardiness, immunity from diseases and insect pests, cleanliness and persistence, or long life. They are slow growing, compared with box-elder and poplars, but one cannot find quality and rapid growth in any one tree. These varieties will be found appropriate for any community with climate similar to that of Salt Lake, which means that they will survive in nearly all of the principal towns of Utah. Following is the list: Norway maple, London plane, European linden, green ash, white ash, blue ash, honey locust, horse chestnut, ginkgo and English elm. Siberian, or Chinese elm has been used to some extent, but this tree, though a surprisingly fast grower, is not of good quality and should be used sparingly on streets. The minimum distance for planting is 35 feet apart, but 45 to 50 feet is much to be preferred. Trees planted at the latter distance will touch each other at maturity. After all, we should look into the future in tree planting, visualizing the finished picture rather than being guided by the slender sapling at planting time.
THE JEREMY COTTONWOOD Tree (83 years old) A Pioneer tree growing on the northwest corner of 4th West and South Temple Streets was planted in 1852 by John Jeremy
STREET TREES OF UTAH
EVERY town in the state should have either a shade tree commission or some agency of the city government charged with the supervision of planting and care of street trees. Members of commission serve without pay, and in the smaller towns the executive work might be undertaken by someone already employed by the city, thus providing supervision without additional expense. Even if the work is done at some cost, what is more valuable to any community than the preservation and maintenance of its precious trees?
USUALLY it is to the women of any community that we must look for the promotion and fostering of the beautiful things in life. It is well known that Relief Society members have plenty to do in performing the noble work which is their objective, but what a splendid thing it would be if they would take the welfare of trees as well as humans under their kindly wings, and see to it that the tree traditions of our forbears are upheld in all the towns and villages of our beloved state. Surely no organization is better fitted to urge this work, or could accomplish more in bringing it about.