Dr. Jane W. Manning Skolfield By Annie Wells Cannon
IN the death of Dr. Skolfield, which occurred on the 12th of February, this year, the state of Utah lost a great and noble woman Dr Jane Skolfield was a worthy daughter of pioneers. Her parents, Henry W. And Margaret Galbraith Manning came to Utah in the early covered wagon days and made a home in the desert land where they reared a large family. She was proud of her heritage and like her brave parents not afraid of any task, but made each task a stepping stone to something higher. She rose from student in a village school to teacher, from teacher to a professor of pedagogy, and then became a founder of schools for little children. Even as a child she gave evidence of leadership and the gift of organization. At twelve she was a Sunday school teacher, at sixteen she assisted her father in his small business and did her share of the work on the farm.
ALWAYS eager to advance she set her aim for a profession choosing that of medicine, and became a leading and proficient physician. Her ministrations as a woman physician naturally brought her in contact with many of the unfortunate. Only those who knew her best can tell of the kindness of her great soul. How deeply she sympathized with the young unmarried mothers and befriended them in their dire need as well as served them professionally. Later in life as a member of the board of the state Industrial School this same tenderness was manifest in behalf of the delinquent young people who lived there. They in turn loved her and watched with eagerness her visits, for always she brought into their lives something to make the days seem brighter. When a member of the legislature in 1913 she introduced a number of measures for social betterment. As a merciful benefactor she will be always remembered.
A WOMAN of so forceful a character naturally became interested in different activities for the advancement of women in education and culture, and she became affiliated with several organizations for this purpose. She received many important positions of honor by appointment from state and civic officials, and was many times sent as a delegate to national conventions. In a social way, aside from her professional life Dr. Jane formed many close and loyal friendships. She was especially fond of her association with the members of the Ensign club of which she was a charter member and co-founder.
NOTWITHSTANDING her public career Dr. Jane maintained a charming home life. She surrounded herself with good books, beautiful art treasures, and cultural things. In this atmosphere with her precious family she loved to entertain her friends—dear friends who knew the worth of this courageous woman, who, in fighting life's battles, knew no such word as fail.
DR. JANE W. SKOLFIELD She was in truth a woman who believed the world belonged to the energetic, indeed like "The Happy Warrior" she walked among the 223 tasks of life and turned each necessity to glorious gain. Dear to the heart is the memory of such a friend.