[Vol5 | February 1918 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons - Lesson III Genealogy and Literature - Japhet]

LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in March. DESCENDANTS AND TRIBES.* JAPHETH, HIS When the sons of Noah, with their descendants spread abroad after the Flood, the sons of Japheth went into the Mediterranean coasts, into Asia Minor to "the isles of the Gentiles," also across Armenia, into the Tigris and Euphrates valleys over Media and Persia, and eastward as far as India, embracing probably the peoples who spoke what is now called the great Indo-European languages. Japheth means "enlarged." In Greek mythology the Titan Japetus is the progenitor of the human race. Ion, his son, in the Hebrew form, is Javan. Tarshish, son of Javan, is father of southern Spain Madai of the Medes, and Gomer, the Teutons. Some of our Latter-day Saints authorities claim Semitic descent for the Teutons. It is quite certain that the seed of Israel is scattered through the Teuton peoples. However, we give the line here as it is given in modern histories. The following quotations are extracts taken from the first sixty pages of Lenormant and Chevallier's Ancient History of the East, Vol. II: "The ancestors of the Japhetic race believed that everything proceeded from one celestial being  the being par excellence  God. Deva, the Deus of the Greeks, the Deus of the Latins. This divine being was considered 'The Living One.' "But this belief in the divine unity, a relic of the primitive faith of mankind in the original revelation, was, among the ancient Japhetic races, as among all the nations of antiquity who had not a divine revelation for the preservation of the truth, disfigured by the introduction of pantheism, and by the personification of the attributes of the Supreme Being as so many separate gods, emanations from his substance. God the Creator was mistaken for the universe he had created; his unity was divided into a number of personages also believed to be divine. * * * But the existence of these personifications, each invested with an individuality, was a deplorable fall from the original conception, and completely hid it from view in the popular worship, directly leading to the depths of polytheism and idolatry." The following extract is descriptive of the expansion of the family into a nation or kingdom among primitive Japhetic peoples: "In the course of its development the family became the clan. This is an assemblage of brothers, as its Greek name shows. The clan is a relationship that originated with the Japhetic nations, and existed in later times among the Iranians in India, Ireland, Scotland, and among the Slavonians. At its head was a chief, or patriarch, the eldest, the head of the family, invested with absolute power, and that by right divine, as was the Roman paterfamilias. He, however, could not decide on his own unsupported authority: he was assisted by a council, composed of a certain number of elders, fathers of families, who were accustomed to deliberate with him. Beyond the clan we find the tribe a still larger extension of the family; all its members tracing back to one common origin, as its name indicates in Zend, zanter, identical with the Latin gens, and a Greek word meaning to 'germinate, generate, produce'; the assemblage of tribes constituted the nation, which therefore, is but a larger family, a multitude, an assemblage of men attached to each other by common ties. As a supreme chief above the heads of the clans and of the tribes, they have a king, whose name signifies the director, the sustainer In later times, when the Persian empire was at its greatest height of glory and power, there still remained something of ancient forms of this spirit of independence and liberty. "The nature of the government and the authority of the great king were very different in the provinces from what they were in Persia itself. Although elsewhere he was the typical Asiatic sovereign, absolute, uncontrolled, almost divine; in Persia the king was only the chief of a free people. * * * "It was only in later times after the days of Xerxes, that the last traces of this free life disappeared in Persia, when the Persians had been enervated and corrupted by riches, and by contact with the corruptions of the nations they had conquered. Then the power of the great king became the same in Persia as in the rest of his empire, and the descendants of the free companions of Cyrus were bowed beneath the yoke of an unlimited despotism." Media, which was settled, we are told, by Madai, son of Japheth, was an important, very ancient Asiatic monarchy, lying south and west of the Caspian Sea and between that sea and Assyria. It was larger than Assyria and Chaldea combined, and the River Tigris watered its fields. In the mountain region the climate is severe, but on the plains the thermometer rarely registers ninety degrees in the shade. The Medes were a handsome race of men, noble and graceful, the women beautiful and cultured. Their love of luxury was their final destruction. About 860 B. C. the Syrians invaded their country and we thus learn of them definitely. They were then di- 
 vided into tribes and were governed by petty chieftains. They did not build cities, but they were fierce in war, and worshipped fire and other natural phenomena. It was Shalmaneser the Fourth king of Assyria about 722 B. C. who nominally conquered them on this occasion but they were not really subdued until Sargon II, another Assyrian king, invaded Media about 710 B. C. and completely conquered the Medes, planting cities wherein later he placed the Israelitish captives. "Media is first mentioned in the Bible as the part of Assyria to which the Ten Tribes were transplanted: at first, those beyond the Jordan, by Tiglath-pilser, I Chr. 5:26; and afterwards, about 721 B. C, the remainder of Israel, by Sargon, 2 Kin. 17:6. The subsequent history of Media is involved in that of Persia. The united empire conquered Babylon, according to Isaiah's prediction, Isa. 13:17; 21:2; Dan. 5:6; Ezra 1. Both countries were subdued by Alexander of Macedon, 330 B. C, and in the next century became tributary to the Parthians on their east, in connection with whom they are mentioned in Acts 2:9" (Smith's Bible Dictionary). Nineveh, the Median Capital. In 660 B. C., a large Assyrian emigration flocked into the Median country from the East mountains. They were headed by Phraortes, the father of Cyraxerses. He succeeded so well that he made himself king over all the petty chiefs who had hitherto ruled variously, and in 634 B. C, he attacked Assyria but was defeated. About fifty years later his son Cyraxerses again invaded Assyria and laid siege to Nineveh, destroying it. Media was next invaded by Scythians, but Cyraxerses finally defeated them. After the conquest of Nineveh Cyraxerses went on his conquering way, but finally made a compact with Nebuchadnezzar, the mighty Persian king, and thus came the famous Medo-Persian dynasty. These later rulers and events are referred to by the sacred writers, as found in Jeremiah and Isaiah. The land of the Medes was occupied by the Scythians for eighteen years, and only by treachery did the Medes rid themselves of their conquerors. Later the Medes were conquered by the Persians who were, up to the time of Cyrus, partly nomads; "and this prince knew well what his people owed to the sterile soil and generally inclement sky, when he represented to his companions that an enervated people were generally made so by the softness of their climate and the riches of their soil. When a person, named Artembares wished to persuade his countrymen to exchange their small and mountainous land for a larger and better country, Cyrus strongly opposed his proposition. 'Soft countries,' he said, 'gave birth to small men; there was no region which produced delightful fruits and at the same time men of a warlike spirit.' 'The Persians,' adds Herodotus, 'departed with altered minds, confessing that Cyrus was wiser than they; and chose rather to dwell in a churlish land, and exercise lordship, than to cultivate plains and be slaves to others.' "The Persians were divided into ten tribes, and into three social classes. * * * * * "They and the Bactrians had preserved the Zoroastrian religion in its greatest purity. Their isolated life and tribal independence, their republican liberty and parliamentary forms of government, which were the normal and primitive state of the Iranians, remained unaltered till the time of Cyrus. It was by free deliberation in a real national assembly that he was elected." East India. One of the descendants of Japheth through Gomer wandered with some of his tribes into the valley of the Ganges as early as 1500 B. C. These fair-skinned invaders found some descendants of Ham, through Cush probably, already settled in this country. The two peoples gradually became one, but the Aryans or sons of Japheth were the dominant race and these became the nobles and warriors, the Brahmins or priests; while the native inhabitants were the Sudras, the Pariahs or outcasts, the lowest and most despised of the native races. Brahma is the Hindu name for a supreme being, and the religion developed under this name has for its central pivot the transmigration of souls or re-birth. According to the Brahmin teachings the man who does well comes back on to the earth in a higher caste, while men who do evil come back as Pariahs or as some unclean animal. In the fifth century before our era a great reformer named Buddha was born in India and established a more exalted form of religion. He taught reincarnation, that is, rebirth upon the earth, but did not believe, as did the Brahmins, that men's spirits entered into animals, plants or stones. Buddhism spread all over India and China and today that religion claims almost one-third of the human race. In later centuries India has been tributary and now is under the dominion of England. China. China which was no doubt settled by Japheth's descendants, is as old as Egypt or Babylonia, but which until recent times has been a vague, mysterious country. From Lyman's Historical Chart we quote: "About this time (2,200 B. C.) it is supposed that Noah, wearied with the growing depravity of his descendants, retired with a few select friends to the remotest part of Asia, and there began what has since been called the Chinese monarchy. Its early history is not connected with that of other nations, and is also very obscure and much mixed with fable." 
 "Confucius, the great Chinese philosopher, is supposed to have flourished about 500 B. C." We read in McCabe's Pictorial History of the World: "* * * According to the Chinese writers, Fuh-hi became the ruler of the country about B. C. 2,832, and founded the Chinese empire. He is said to have taught his people how to raise cattle, and the art of writing, and to have introduced the institution of marriage and the divisions of the year. He was succeeded by Shin-nung, who taught the people agriculture and medicine. Then came Hwangti, who is said to have invented clocks, weapons, ships, wheeled vehicles, and musical instruments, and to have introduced coins and weights and measures. Ti-ku, the next emperor, established schools, and introduced the practice of polygamy. He was succeeded in 2,357 B. C. by his son Yau, with whom the more certain history of China commences. He reigned until B. C. 2,258, and greatly advanced the civilization and wealth of his country, and built many roads and canals. His son Shun succeeded him and reigned until B. C. 2,207. He was as good and wise a ruler as his father. In 2,207 the throne passed to Yu the Great, who founded the dynasty of Hia, which held the throne until B. C. 1,767." We also quote from the Encyclopedia Britannica as follows: "* * * During Yau's reign a catastrophe reminding one of the biblical deluge threatened the Chinese world. The emperor held his minister of works, Kun, responsible for this misfortune, probably an inundation of the Yellow river such as has been witnessed by the present generation. Its horrors are described with poetical exaggeration in the Shu-king. When the efforts to stop the floods had proved futile for nine years, Yau wished to abdicate, and he selected a virtuous young man of the name of Shun as his successor. Among the legends told about this second model emperor is the story that he had a board before his palace on which every subject was permitted to note whatever faults he had to find with his government, and that by means of a drum suspended at his palace gate attention might be drawn to any complaint that was to be made to him. Since Kun had not succeeded in stopping the floods, he was dismissed and his son Yu was appointed in his stead. Probably the waters began to subside of their own accord, but Yu has been praised up as the national hero who, by his engineering works, saved his people from utter destruction." There are two distinct races in China, the Mongols and Tartars in the north. China is a monarchy but a parental one. The religious teacher of China was Confucius who was born 551 B. C. He did not claim to be a prophet, but he taught obedience to parents and reverence for the ancients with imitation of their virtues. His teachings are as potent in China as the Bible is in Christendom. His Five Classics contained in four books are the Bible of the Chinese. The injunction to walk in the old ways, to observe a certain formal worship of progenitors, and to refuse absolutely association with foreigners have isolated them down through the centuries. However, we know now that China was filled with schools and colleges more than a thousand years before our era, and the Chinese people are today, and always have been, better educated than any other pagan people. May not their worshiping ceremonials for their ancestors be a corrupted survival of vicarious salvation. Greece. The last of the ancient peoples to leave permanent impress upon the civilization of the ages was in some respects, the greatest. The Greeks were descended from Ion or Ion, son of Javan, son of Japheth. They scattered up and down the Mediterranean and along the shores of the Hellespont; yet Greece proper was their real home. Their history begins 800 B. C. Before that all is myth and legend. The famous Trojan war and other events described by the tragic poet Homer were founded unquestionably on facts, but just which were facts and which were legends it is impossible now to tell. Sparta, which was one of their cities, had a wonderful constitution framed by the law-giver Lycurgus. The Spartans instituted a rigid educational system for the youth of the nation. The Spartan youths were subjected to all sorts of hardships and privations, and hence came the rule of "The Survival of the Fittest." Athens, another famous ancient Grecian city, was the seat of learning and art. Many famous names in literature, history, art and government pass along the stream of history in Athens and Greece proper. When the Persians came over to offer battle to the Athenians at Marathon, Miltiades withstood him and won the battle. In the second expedition of the Persians under Xerxes, the Greeks again defeated the Persians. Pericles, son of Miltiades, became the leader of Athens. He was a great ruler and established many wonderful reforms and adorned Athens with masterpieces of art and architecture. Socrates flourished 399 B. C. Then came Alexander the Great, born 336 B. C, and he conquered the known world and as his historians say, "sighed for another world to conquer." The literature, philosophy and science of the Greeks are the most wonderful cultural inheritances of the world. Rome. Greece, like the other pagan nations rose to supremacy through struggle and civic virtues, ruled the world for a time and then gradually sank into the mire of luxury and corruption and was conquered in turn by a younger and more vigorous na- 
 tion, the Romans. The Romans are descendants of Dodanim, in turn descended from Javan who was the father of the Greek nation. In 500 B. C., the Gauls, a branch of the Celtic race, came over the Alps and settled in northern Italy, becoming formidable enemies of the infant republic of Rome. The Latins, near kindred of the Greeks, introduced the customs, manners, beliefs and institutions of the Greeks into early Rome. Rome grew up originally on a system of citizenship for freemen. It was called a republic, but was not one as we moderns understand the term. Many famous law-givers prepared the code of written laws. The rulers were obliged to answer to the free citizens. There were wars with the Celts, with the Greeks, and finally Augustus Caesar in 31 B. C. became Emperor of all the Romans. By this time Greece had been absorbed by the Romans and Rome was virtually mistress of the civilized world. In 63 B. C., the Roman General Pompey conquered Jerusalem. After that time Judea paid tribute to the Romans. After the crucifixion of our Savior and the preaching of the Gospel in Rome and other Gentile countries, the converted Christian worshiped in secret in the catacombs and burial places of Rome, but finally, in the fourth century, Constantine the Great, finding the Christians had become a powerful influence all over the empire, he himself turned Christian, and in the year 313 A. D. he placed Christianity on an equal footing with the other religions of the empire. Subsequently he made Christianity the state religion and as we are told by Myers the historian: "This marks the beginning of the great possessions of the Church, and with these the entrance into it of a worldly spirit. From this moment can be traced the decay of its primitive simplicity and a decline from its early moral standard." Pagan ceremonies, worship and holidays were disguised and transferred into the Christian rites and thus corrupted, became religious practices. In the year 376 A. D. the Goths, who were a branch of the Teutonic race, formed an alliance with the Roman Emperor Valens and became allied to the Roman State. These western Goths had been terrified by a terrific onslaught of the Huns who were a monstrous race of fierce Nomadic horsemen from the vast steppes of Asia. Both Eastern and Western Goths crowded to the banks of the Danube and pleaded that they might be allowed to keep the river between themselves and the dreaded Huns, but as soon as the Goths had received permission the Emperor Valens, frightened out by their numbers, risked a battle with them to conquer them. He was slain in 378 A.D. From this time the formation of kingdoms and nations on the European continent had its inception. Rome as the mistress of the world was about to be cast from her proud eminence. Daniel's vision of the image