[Vol5 | February 1918 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The Essential Nephi Anderson]

THE ESSENTIAL. 87

To the members of the General Board of the Relief Society she was ever kind, moving among us with grace and courtesy, ever bringing cheer and happiness. Not only material, but also intellectual and spiritual were her contributions, always given as freely as God gave them to her, for God blessed her as few women have been blessed, with a spirit that found a halo of peace, and wrapped her in its folds, only giving her warmth when it brought comfort into the lives of others.

We loved her, because she was true to herself, her family, humanity and God. We honored her, because in her humility of spirit she comforted the sick, helped the poor, brought hope to the wayward and taught a living trust in God.

We join in sending sympathy with a fervent prayer that the peace and faith of her life will ever remain as a heritage to her family and friends. Let her image ever remain with us as the image of a woman in whom the divine self had triumphed and through whom, therefore, as through a transparent medium, eternal reality shines to make all life purer, braver, freer, gladder and gentler.

Ida S. Dusenberry,     Committee on Resolutions.
Carrie S. Thomas,
Julia P. M. Farnsworth.

The Essential.

By Nephi Anderson.

The young man had just asked the father for the hand of his daughter, supporting his claim by a recital of what his worldly prospects were; and, it must be acknowledged, for a young man just out of school, they were fairly good.

The father looked keenly but not unkindly at the young couple as they stood before him with nerves all atingle. Then he said:

"It doesn't matter so much when you live or where you live or how you live, but it matters very much with whom you live."

The young man and the girl looked at each other inquiringly.

"I want both of you to think about this which I have just said," continued the father  and he repeated the statement. "If, after considering it for a day or two, there is anything about it you do not understand, come to me again."

The father turned again to his book, by way of dismissal. A little dazed, a little awkwardly, they left the room.

The next day they were back.


"We have thought about what you said yesterday," announced the young man, "and we have come for further explanation. We do not fully understand what you mean."

"I suppose you take no exceptions to the latter part of my statement?" questioned the father.

"Oh, no, papa," replied the girl; "we agree with that entirely; but we also think it important where and when and how we live."

"I did not say it was not important, my daughter. I said it doesn't matter so much, and by that I mean that it is not absolutely essential to one's happiness, as some people seem to think. Sit down; I must prove my contention, I see. Mother is busy with her knitting, but she also may listen."

The white haired mother from her easy chair smiled serenely upon all of them, but she said nothing.

"I am going to make my explanations under three headings," went on the father,  "when, where, and how. The statement I made yesterday must have appeared somewhat startling to you; and I'll admit that without further explanation, it might be misunderstood. First, then, the when. We live in the days of electric cars, electric lights, telephones, and automobiles. Mother and I, at your age, lived in the days of ox-teams and tallow candles. Now, it is not an essential to happiness that one speeds quickly from place to place, or that one must view the beauty of a face under the glare of electric light; but it matters very much who you have with you in your journey whether swift or slow and whose face it is that beams into yours. I'm not saying I do not enjoy our automobile for I do  but I could be happy without it, with mother and I still driving Old Nig, with hands free from the reins to do with as we please!" He looked slyly at his wife, but she appeared not to notice.

"Then, as to the where we live: Why, mother and I spent some of the happiest days of our lives under our dirt-roofed cabin which you may still see down in the corner of the pasture lot. And the country was wild and rough in those days. Shortly after we were married, we were called to settle one of the southern counties. Now, some people have an idea that happiness depends altogether on one's living in a certain place. That's foolish. One place is about as good as another if the one you live with also thinks so. Mother and I became so attached to our crude wilderness home that when we were released, we disliked leaving it * * * * Yes, I would rather live in peaceful content in the remotest parts of the land than without that in the finest palace in the city.

"Then, the how we live: I mean by this, not how we conduct ourselves, for that is extremely important, but I refer to the social and financial plane on which we live. For illustration again,

THE ESSENTIAL. 89

mother and I, when we started out, lived on the plainest, often the coarsest, foods. It was scarce also, and the soup-bone was clean and dry when we got through with it. As for dress, good, strong homespun did excellent service. And this I can say also, that although mother even when a girl, had to make the cloth, she did not skimp the quantity; there was always enough so that she did not have to cut it short both top and bottom, as some poor people do nowadays."

The father did not look at his daughter  he was looking out of the window at a passing automobile  so why should her face redden?

"I fear the young people of today could not be happy without modern homes and stylish clothes. Mind you, I'm not objecting to these things, for they are good in their time and place. What I contend for is that life's happiness should not depend on them to the extent that should they be taken away, happiness also would depart.

"Coming now to the last statement, that which matters most is with whom you are mated. Now, here are you two young people: you think you have found the only person in the whole world for each other. I hope you have; but time and trouble only can prove that. Love-light is so glaring in the beginning that it obliterates all imperfections. Have you two ever quarreled?"

"Well,  sometimes, papa, but  "

"Kitten play, that's all. You haven't begun to live yet. Suppose, for instance, one or both of you should develop the trait, now hidden, of ungovernable temper. What would you do? Would you control yourselves, give in to each other? Can you at times agree to disagree and not quarrel over it? When life gets to be somewhat a hum-drum affair, will you be able to glorify its commonplaces, and see the silver lining to every cloud? After all, my girl and my boy, for I must call you that now, it's the life of the spirit that counts; the condition within our hearts is the all-important; the attitude of the mind colors all outward things, giving them either a cast of darkness or an aurora of light * * Have you now an idea of what I meant by the statement that it doesn't matter so much when you live or where you live or how you live, but it matters very much with whom you live?

"Just another word: If you'll always see to it that the Spirit of the Lord lives with you, you will be well fortified for all things else."

The young man and the girl arose as if to greet with more respect the father's closing statement. Then the girl, with glad, tearful cry threw her arms about her father. The young man stepped to the side of the mother and intently watched her knitting.