Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. China is again a republic, the attempt to re-establish the monarchy having failed. Disarming of merchant vessels for defensive purposes, pro- iposed by the United States, has been rejected by the European nations, as a new international arrangement. The European war fronts, except the Russian advance in the Caucasus, are practically the same as a month ago. There has been fierce fighting, but few changes of position. Economy in material in women's dress is urged by the gov- ernment in Germany. In this part of the world, the limit of economy at least in quantity appears to have been reached. German submarines continue to sink unarmed passenger notwithstanding assurances from Germany that this policy ships, would be abandoned. The international irritation against Ger- many consequently is increasing. Mormon colonies in Mexico, which have been subjected to many impositions in the way of having property confiscated by rebelsand bandits, particularly by those under the leadership of Francisco Villa, have been relieved from this trouble by the ad- vance of the American punitive expedition into Northern Mexico. Ogden City, Utah, had a large portion of its residence dis- trictflooded during several days in March, owing to the great rush of water from Ogden Canyon, and the blocking of the stream. Comparatively little damage was done. Czar Nicholas of Russia addressed the Russian national Duma on Washington's birthday— the first occasion of the kind in Slavonic history. The world moves toward greater freedom for the masses of humankind, even in Russia, this action being a marked concession in that line. Portugal seized thirty-six German and Austrian ships in Portugese harbors on Feb. 23, and Germany soon after declared war on that nation. The same day. Italy seized thirty- four Ger- tu;'n ships in Italian waters, but no declaration of war by Ger- many has come thus far for Italy. CURRENT TOPICS. 281 Pneumonia causes ten percent of the deaths in the United States, or more than any other disease, is the statement in a re- cently issued government report, which also says that half the cases of pneumonia are easily prevented by ordinary care on the part of the individual. Verdun, in France, has been the scene this year of the great- Heavy fighting continued practically with- est battle in history. out intermission for more than six weeks from the middJe of February, with the Teutonic forces of hundreds of thousands of men thrown against the French positions still unable to gain their purpose — an open road to Paris. Three fires in the United States in March caused im- mense damage. At Nashville, Tenn., 600 houses were burned, 5,000 people rendered homeless, and $1,500,000 in property de- stroyed at Augusta, Ga., 600 houses, 3,000 homeless, and $5,000,. ; 000 property loss was registered at Paris, Texas, 2,000 houses, ; 8,000 homeless, some fatalities, and $10,000,000 property loss is the record. Congressman Joseph Howell, after years of persistent effort,has succeeded in having the Utah Indian war veterans of 1865-6 recognized by the government as entitled to pensions for regular service performed and Senator Reed Smoot has been; successful in having the qualifying term of service reduced from ninety days to thirty days. One-story school buildings, constructed in a hollow square with playground in the center, and all classrooms opening out- doors, is the latest recommendation of sanitationists in school- room architecture. The new development certainly has an ad- vantage over, the old in the ventilation, light, cleanliness, and safety provided. Congress has practically agreed on a regular army of 140,- 000 men and a reserve force of 425.000 men, as a basis of the United States military arm in time of peace. This is an increase of about 700 per cent in the strength of the army as provided by law from the conditions of less than a year ago. Theodore Roosevelt, on his return to the United States, prefers to discuss the gviachara, a new nut-eating bird which he has discovered, rather than to talk politics. He says he will not engage in a scramble for the nomination for the presidency; but nevertheless he is far from being an unhkelv candickite on the Republican ticket to be named in June. The other mentionc<l 
 candidates most probable are Elihu Root and Justice Hughes, against President Wilson on the Democratic ticket. Mexican affairs are growing more vexatious with each month's development. Francisco Villa, the Mexican general, rebel, and bandit, made a raid on Columbus, N. M., with the purpose of provoking American intervention in Mexican af- fairs, and now a column of about 5,000 United States troops has pursued him about 250 miles into Mexico. The Carranza gov- ernment of our southern neighbor gives effusive assurance of assistance to the American punitive expedition, but the aid ren- dered amounts to little, actually, and there is a strong prospect that Villa will find refuge in the almost inaccessible Sierra Madre canyons. Russia is nearing both the Mediterranean Sea and the In- dian Ocean, since the armies of the Grand Duke Nicholas cap- tured the Turkish fortress of Erzerum. From this point one column of troops has advanced to the vicinity of Sivas, less than 200 miles north of Alexandretta, the Mediterranean Turkish port occupied by British and French forces. A second column has pushed forward from the Lake Van region to the valley of the Western Tigris south of BitHs, and is less than 300 miles from Alexandretta. A third column from the Lake Urumiah district has pierced the passes of the Diyala, west of Kerman- shah, and within 75 miles of Bagdad. A fourth column has made its way southward beyond Ispahan, to within 250 miles of the Persian Gulf. The success of the first two columns named makes it certain that no peace terms which can be arranged by Turkey will enable the latter to retain Palestine when the time for set- tlement comes. This latter district is practically cut off from Turkey by the Sivas-Alexandretta line, and it is only a question of Russian or of British and French occupation of the ancient land of Israel, unless there comes a disastrous defeat of the — Entente allies on both the western and eastern fronts an event far from probable in human prospect.