GUIDE LESSONS. 297 f. Notice doors, windows, and looking glass; clean if necessary. 4. Once a month. a. Dust pictures, walls, electroliers. Clean sideboard. b. Clean serving table. c. d. Clean china cupboard. e. Clean salt, peppers, sugars, inside and out. (The above may be rotated so that one cupljoard is cleaned each week.) 5. Once in three months. a. Clean windows, electroliers, cupboards and radiators. 6. Once in six months. a. House-clean room walls, paint, windows, pictures, ; and cupboards. Thursday. 1. Dust and straighten front part as usual. 2. Meals as usual. 3. Clean kitchen and pantry. a. Every week. Stove and tea kettle, thoroughly. Clean, polish cupboard and doors. — Open cupboards clean paper. — Knife drawers clean paper. — Refrigerator thorough cleaning, wipe oftener if necessary. Window ledges. Floors, a good cleaning, wipe mop-boards if nec- essary. Clean out vegetable table. b. Every month. Give one cupboard a good cleaning and rotate with others. Clean porch cupboard. Pour strong boiling sal soda water dowm waste pipes and refrigerator pipe. Dust wall, woodwork, radiator. Wipe off wood if necessary. Clean electrolier and windows. c. Every six months. House clean rooms. Friday. L Meals as usual. TT. Cive following rooms a good cleaning: Bedroom, stud\'. library, frontroom. hall, front |)i)rcb, fi\)nt stairs. 1. Once a week. a. Remove plants to kitchen and give bath 
: b.. Open windows and doors. c. Cover piano. d. Clean phonograph. e. Sweep thoroughly. f. Dust thoroughly. g. Fill all radiator tanks. 2. Once a month. a. Dust walls, pictures, electroliers, shake curtains, sofa pillows and couch cover. b. Straighten book cases. c. Clean radiators and fill tanks. d. Wipe windows if necessary. 3. Once in three months. a. Polish and wax floors (a man usually does this). b. Wipe ofT furniture with polish. c. Clean windows. 4. Once in six months. a. Vacuum cleaner on rugs and furniture. b. House clean walls, paint, pictures, etc. Saturday. I. Dust and straighten as usual. II. Meals as usual. III. Clean. 1. Back stairs, down stairs, bathroom, and back porch. IV. Baking. 1. Dessert for Sunday. 2. Cake, cookies, raisin bread or buns. \: Wind clock. ///. Children as Aids. It is agreat thing for children to learn the necessary process of housework under the tutelage of a wise mother. It is no small task to teach children to work, but it is time well invested both for mother and child, and should be begun by small chores as early in the child's life as is feasible. In after years the child can carry some of the load to mother's relief, and at the same time has learned one of life's most valuable lessons: that labor is life; and that there is no joy to equal that of useful work well done. a. Don't neglect the small boy; let him learn some of the household processes. If there is no farm or outside work for him to do, keep him busy with the house work. It will be a ben- efit to him all his life and may be his wife will call you blessed! Children are happiest when they are busy and if properly trained can be a great benefit in the home. fj\ The Rest Hour. It seems fnu'tless to advise women to take an hour just for — GUIDE LESSONS. 299 — themselves every day even though the "hour" be only fifteen minutes. But it is advice that every wise woman will follow at any sacrifice. It is true that in this busy life there seems never to be time for it, but that is one thing a mother must just "take." 1. The body is comparable in every way to a highly sensi- tive machine. The food eaten may be compared to the fuel and; the pleasures and relaxations of life to the oil that keeps the ma- chine in running order. No machine can run very long without plenty of fuel and oil. The body builds itself during sleep. The day of the average woman begins about 6 a. m. and lasts until 10 o'clock at night; and the hours of sleep between are often disturbed while children are small. Sixteen hours of ceaseless toil is too much for any machine as sensitive as the body to endure for any length of time. So that if women would only understand themselves a little, many of the ills of a broken body might be avoided. A busy woman can't afford to miss the "quiet hour," for because of it the machine will run so much more smoothly during the rest of the time, and so very much more may be accomplished. It is really a necessity, if life is to be lived at its best. 2. One need not necessarily sleep during this period. Though a daily fifteen minute cat-nap is a very good habit for a young mother to acquire. The important thing is that each house-mother (and others, too, for that matter) needs a small period each day all to herself. During that time banish all house- — hold care and worry do it through prayer and force of will and constant trying. It will not be easy at first, but stay with it and you will succeed. If your sleep is broken at night, try to sleep or at least relax and rest the body absolutely during your "rest hour." If you sleep well at night, take the time and indulge the taste your life seems too busy to allow, — let it be anything from reading magazine advertisements to practicing the piano. The main thing is to take it some time during the day and let it be as sacred as your prayers and for all the family to re- spect. You will be well repaid by the added vigor of body and mind and spirit. Don't forget that "all work and no play makes Jack a dull bov," and Jill a useless woman. A mother must be in command of all her powers and any means is justifiable to that end. QUESTIONS ON LESSON VI. 1. What is the most important phase of housekeeping and why do you consider it so? 2. What is the difiference between a housekeeper and a home-maker? 3. What are your views concerning the healthfulness of ) ; ! 30U RELIEF SUCJETV MAGAZINE. housework? When may it be harmful? How should one dress for it? 4. What are advantages and disadvantages of the use of system in the performance of housework? 5. Have you succeeded in getting the co-operation you de- sire between the work of the farm or shop and the home? And how have you done it? 6. Do you employ a definite schedule in the performance of your housework and will you give its essential points? (Let three or four answer this question. One month before this lesson is given ask two or more women to prepare and give their own schedule. 7. Name the advantages of having children, boys and girls, learn to do housework at an early age. 8. Have you been successful in teaching your children to work, and describe your method? a. How early should a child be taught to do small chores? 9. Give some instances where success or failure in life's work has resulted from young people knowing or not knowing how to work. 10. Name some ways of making home work attractive to girls and boys. 11. Do you believe in the "rest hour" and why? Name the benefits of the practice and give instances of those who, have profited by it. 12. Have you tried (and with what success) letting your daughters who are studying Home Economics in the schools take the burden of the housekeeping during vacation and letting mother have a rest? A VOICE CALLING. A voice insistent, calls unto the soul of man And bids him take the clod whereon he stands And mould and fashion it with hands Made glad by toil — LTntil the world that halts to jeer one day, All sober, shall pass on its way. And ponder in its heart And marvel, that such common clay Can clothe a thought divine, Yet be of earth a part Maud B.aggarlev. — HEALTH NOTES FOR THE SETTLERS. THE COMMON WASH RAG. Prepared by the U. S. Public Health Service. The United States Public Health Service, and the various State and local boards of health, have taken adequate measures for the abolition of that distributer of disease germs, the common towel. Now comes the news that the common wash rag is even a greater menace to health. The hotels and public hostelries have recognized this, for some time, and have supplied their guests with sterilized wash cloths in individual -sealed packets. The damp, "sour-smelling" wash rag still exists, however, in many private bathrooms. Imperfectly washed out after use, frequently not wrung out at all, it is often hung over a rack or a radiator near an open window, there to collect dust and dirt. Frequently the same wash rag is used by the entire family, thus affording an easy means of transference of mouth secretions from person to person. In many households each individual has his own cloth and his individual towel, but these hang so close to one another that there is ready interchange of bacteria. Each individual should have his own wash cloth. It should be thoroughly washed out with clean, hot water after use. It should then be wrung as nearly dry as possible and, if possible, hung in the sun to dry. It should not come in contact with other wash cloths. In the inves- tigations the United States Public Health Service is conducting in regard to the prevalence of trachoma, it has been found that common towels probably acted as a medium of distribution of the germ of the disease.- From Reclamation Organisation. Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 1 9^ discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscrip- tions sent into this office must be accompanied w^ith $ 1.00, as there is no discount allow^ed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves. Please Use Our Subscription Blanks EVERY RELIEF SOCIETY SHOULD HAVE "The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine," which is the organ of the Genealogical Society, and contains genealogical matter of great value in the study of Relief Society lessons. Issued quarterly. Price $1.50 a year. To members of the Gene- alogical Society, and to Relief Societies, $1.00. Send subscriptions to GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH, 60 East South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 'Utah's Most Popular Music House" English and American SAVE HALF ARCHITECTURE When Buying Your Piano By GEO. M. ALLEN We always have on hand a repre.sentative is in Mrs. Home's Art Book, stock of instruments used as demonstrators, returned from rentals, etc., practically good DEVOTEES AND THEIR as new, but AT ABOUT % ORIGINAL PRICES SHRINES. Send to this office or Mtntion this maiaaine and ask for special list. to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned. OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID — The Most Interesting, Z. C. M. I. Inspiring and Beauti- ful Scenic Sections School Shoes of the West ARE REACHED VIA For Boys Including Arc made for service Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon they will keep the boys' Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Parle feet warm and dry. Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River Z. C. M. I. Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts ALLOVERS Pacific Coast Excursions are the ideal Dailjr to November 30th play garment For Detcriptiv Liltralurt, adjrett for boys and D. E. Burley, girls. Cheap, General Passenger Agent, O. S L... Salt LaksCity, Utah serviceable. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters —and sons—to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. If the "DAY" has been set Let me sell you the Ring Diamond Rin^s $20 and up One Qyality Only—thejBest McCONAHAY the^Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City Plan Your 1916 Vacation See America's Playground California '-4 Special Excursion Rates,1 May 1st to Sept. 1st, 1916 See the Thirteen Hundred Miles of Scenery via the SOUTHERN PACIFIC Half the pleasure of a trip is Planning it For carefully illustrated itineraries Write or call on C. L. McFAUL, Ticket Office Second Floor Walker Bank Building Salt Lake Cit