Plain Gossip. By Mrs. Grundy. Carline came over to my back porch to pay back that cup o' sugar she owed me, and she says, says she "Ain't it somethin' fierce the way doctors is raising' prices on us?" And I says, says I "Well, how are the poor doctors goin' : to get rich they don't take a rise out o' us deluded women? if Think of all the poor doctors," says I, "lots on 'em with only one buzz-wagon apiece, and think o' all the debts we owe that we never pay the poor fellers. Think o' the people that get fed up with pills and powders which they buy out of their own money in the drug store, and then they forgit to pay the doctor man who tells them what pills and powders to git. I am just as sorry as I can be for the poor doctors." "Yes, so am I," she says, says she, sarcastic-like, "sorry for the poor doctors. But ain't it a funny thing that most of the honest doctors are poor. That's not saying, howsomever, that all poor doctors are honest." Then I says, "Well, not all the doctors are highway robbers like them you talk about, for one on 'em treated my gal for six weeks and she went there purty nigh every day and he only charged her $25, but he ain't very rich and he don't drive no $5,000 self-starter. He does lots of work for charity, and charity people do lots of cash rustling for him. They sure do their clean best to help us live and to help us die, and I just wonder how anybody ever got well in this town afore we had a doctor," I says. — She just nailed me with her snapping black eyes and she says, says she "These poor men can't afford to put no advertising into: the papers, and so you see we have to have 'em come and talk to us in Relief Society and Parents' Class, so that they can get a little free advertising, for nothin'." I guess I snorted some at that, 'cause my sister's husband's nephew is one o' the doctors. But she jest continued right on; and she says, says she "Well, why can't they get rich? I ain't hinderin' 'em any, only I still stick to olive oil, and try to git my upperty daughters- in-law to be satisfied with givin' a baby a little saffron tea, and the mother a bowl of catnip and a dose of castor oil, after the babies are born. My goodness," she says, says she, "I've had eleven children and all on 'em came into the world with just a good, kind midwife 'round. Can't see but what the babies was all right after they got here, too." "Well," I says, "maybe you got along all right, but some poor critters don't get along all right, and then they have to have some man doctor to come and see what's the matter." "I jist declare," she says, says she, "it beats me all to pieces why women ain't got sense enough to be what women have been — ; PLAIN GOSSIP. 259 for 6,000 years in the world, and that's to be out and out mid- wives." "Sometimes," I says, "there's somethin' wrong, then what 'ud you do? And then sometimes women go on till they git bed- fever, they call it peperal fever, now-days." She says, says she, "All that comes long side o' baby rash and other things what come to babies and women when people ain't clean. If ye jist read the Bible and see what Moses taught the chillun of Isrul yu'd know that most all the trouble comes from bein' dirty. If everybody 'ud jist be clean inside and out, down- side and up, there 'ud be a whole lot of less sickness an' doc- t'rin'." "Say," I ast her, "What's this here clean stunt they call 'ceptic clean?" "Oh," she says, says she, "that means getting all the dirt out from under your finger nails, and from the rough places in your hands, and every scrap of dandruff out yer hair. If ye jist take a little sugar and rub over your hands and then wash them in pritty nigh biling hot water, you will have them 'ceptionally clean." I says, says I, "Well, that's wuth knowin'. I will try that sugar business, if sugar don't go up to $16 a pound. But what you got all this kick on for about the doctors?" says I, and then she flared up and she says, says she, "Don't you know what they've done jist lately? Don't you know they got a medical pool, which ain't a bathing place, but some kind of a close-mouthed crowd where they all git together and decide to skin the other feller and these yere doctors have raised the price in that 'r pool to $35 a baby. Get on to that, will you? And here's my son Jim's wife jist goin' to have her second baby in twenty months, and they been livin' on bread and taters for a year to save 'nough out o' their $60 a month wages to pay for the first baby and for Jim's tonsils bein' yanked out, and his nose bored into at $40 per. Jim says fatherhood comes high, and I guess unless their religion comes in to hoi' 'em level, there wun't be many more $35 babies in that house." Then I says, says I, "Well, that is some charge, ain't it? 'Pears to me like we'll have to get up some kind o' a boycott on the doctors, and git 'ejn on the run by sendin' up more o' our women to study how to be midwives in the Relief Societv Nurse School." "Yes," she says, says she, "me for the nurse course, ne.xt fall, in Salt Lake City, providin' and supposin' the doctors don't con- tinue to boycott the midwives and make o' 'em hisses and by- words." With that she took her cup, and I called over the fence "Don't use all your sugar to clean your hands with, 'cause it's risin' riqht now, out o' sight."