Music Department. I We who love and make music today do not ask who has made it possible for these sweet sounds to be combined in such a way as to charm our ears and to soothe our weary hearts. We are told in Genesis 4:21 that Tubal Cain, gj-andson of Cain, "was the father of all such as handled the harp and organ." So that it was very early in the history of the world that music was devel- oped into an art. The first music was, perhaps, made through signals, and a cry uttered across the wastes to attract attention, or through im- plements clashed loudly together to frighten someone or some- thing away. The savages love noise, and a baby is a savage in that direction. Give the baby a tin pan and a stick and there is no limit to the time he will spend pounding out rattling sounds from his impromptu drum. Noise is not music, although all music is noise, in a certain sense. The sound of the waves upon the shore, the wind whis- pering in the leaves, the streams, rushing over their pebbly beds, all "these constitute, for delicately attuned ears, a natural music. Perhaps we might say that those clear sounds which we like are music, and those which we do not like are noise, to us at least. A harsh sound is always noise to the refined ear, although the savage may enjoy it and call it music. All arts began by being crafts, and it may have taken thou- sands of years for a craft to emerge into the first stage of artistic beauty. Art means the making of something beautiful in which we can express our feelings, or in which we can see a story, such as a picture, a poem, a building, a figure or harmonic sounds. Things which are useful and which belong in the class we call crafts, such as tables, chairs, couches, and other furniture, are distinguished from arts and are called crafts. Of course, furni- ture can be made ugly or beautiful, but a table cannot make you feeel sad or glad when you look at it, no matter how well it has been put together a picture, a poem, or a piece of music, can; make you feel happy or mournful and because of this, either these are counted arts and they always are higher than the crafts. This department will welcome musical reports, notes and questions pertaining to music, and especially music in the Relief Society. Stake choir leaders are requested to send in reports to The Musical Department, Rkltef Sociei^- Magazine. : : ; MUSIC DEPARTMENT. 
 We are delighted with the progress made in our General Board choir and in some of the stake choirs throughout the Church. In a letter recently received from a stranger in the East, she says "I have yet to see a school in which was maintained a high standard of musical training that did not have equally high standards in other subjects." We may well apply this to our Relief Society work. Granite Stake Relief Society Choir Report, for the year ipij. The following report from the Granite stake choir leader will he interesting and suggestive to all our members Members • . . 60 Average attendance about 40 Wards represented. . . . • 11 Rehearsals held 18 Socials held 3 Conferences (4 Sessions) 2 Officers'Meetings • • 1 Conventions (2 Meettings) 1 Genealogical Program 1 Programs County Infirmary • 3 Sunday Evening R. S 1 Mothers' Meeting 1 Total.. 32 We furnished a full program on Genealogical Sunday in one ward. In another, a program for their Sunday evening R. S. meetting a program of original music at our R. S. conference; two programs of John M. Chamberlain's music a big Christmas; program, and on November 21, R. S. Sunday evening, our choir divided and took part in several ward programs. We love our work and are full of enthusiasm. Lucy May Green, Chorister. Ida Horne White, Organist. Alice Behling, Secretary. : :