Home Science Department. Janctte A. Hyde. There are many links to keep bright and strong in the chain of hfe, if one is to preserve both health and happiness. One that we are far too apt to forget in our complex modern civiliza- tion, though we bear a very close relation to it, is the link which binds us to the soil. I have come to believe that no person can be wholly sane and hale who does not, from time to time, handle a spade and hoe. Unless we get back close to the heart of the earth, and watch green things grow up from the very soil from which we came, and to which we return again, we shall never quite see that the earth is "good," as God saw it when he first created it for man. There is a side of one's nature lost, unless we plunge our hands into the earth on which we live, and come to understand nature at first hand. Unless we cover up seeds and bulbs, and set out tiny green shoots, having an interest in watch- ing things develop and grow, in the season thereof, we miss na- ture's freshest greetings. If it is but a window-box of soil, and a few small plants that we cultivate, there is health of body and sanity of mind to be gained by keeping up one's natural relation to earth. If we are irritable and cross, and wish to for- get our cares and become rested and free from some particular worry which seems almost to overpower us, let us go out into the garden, select a small space, spade and rake, and plant a few choice vegetables or flower seeds. Then each day, watch them grow anad develop. In doing this, we will overcome the danger- ous and useless habit of worry; and it will create in us a greater interest in life itself. It will broaden our knowledge of plant life, and give us a keener appreciation for the best things in the days as they come and go. Whoever heard of a woman having nervous prostration who worked daily in a flower garden? Monotony and "grind" steal much of our happiness. It is an old delusion that life is all pain and grief. We find joy in all of life, if we search for it. MISCELLANEOUS NOTES. It is always best to be exceedingly suspicious of any good cuts of pieces of meat which are marked down to an unusually low price. It seldom pays to risk an attack of ptomaine pois- oning for the sake of saving a few cents. The pluck of all animals —the kidney, liver, tongue, and heart — should be purchased only after careful inspection. If the — 264 KELlEl' SOCIETY MAGAZINE. liver has any dark spots in it, it is not healthy food to eat. It should be bright and free from blemishes. Dark beef liver will he found strongly flavored and tough. The kidneys, also, if diseased, will contain spots and look cloudy. Poultry. — In selecting poultry, choose the birds whose eyes are full and bright. The joints must not be stiff nor flabby; the skin should be thin and tender, so that it may be easily torn with -a pin, the breast and bone pliable and yielding easily to pressure, the feet soft and moist. The neck, crop, and abdomen show the first signs of decomposition in any kind of fowl. Vegetables. — Never buy cucumbers, turnips, nor carrots which are not firm to the touch, nor lettuce which shows any trace of rush red look, as this denotes long keeping. String- beans should not have a faded look or any limpness when broken, nor should peas have any other than crisp and plump pods. — Greoi Corn. In green corn the ferment present begins im- mediately to destroy the contained sugar, after it is pulled, and it loses its sweetness and becomes a dead vegetable, and it can- not be freshened by soaking in cold water, as some housewives seem to think. The Agricultural College especially recommends the ox- heart carrot for all-around use. The carrot is very rich in iron. — Rhubarb or Pieplant.- The delicious and cleansing qualities of this earliest of spring fruits and tonics is universally acknowl- edged. But many fail to grow it, and most cooks spoil it in pre- paring it. When it is young, brittle and pink skinned, it should not be stripped, as the skin not only adds a delicate coloring, but gives its own valuable toning qualities. After the stalks get old enough to peel, they have lost their first value and deliciousness. Rhubarb should be bottled for winter use while young and succu- lent. To Cook Rhubarb. — Cut in inch pieces, after washing it well, put it saucepan with a cup of sugar to one in a tightly closed — pound of fruit. Put no water with it not a spoonful— and set it over a slow heat for a moment, then boil up five minutes. If young and tender it will cook in that time, or less. Don't over- cook. If the stalks are tender at the base and tougher above, cut off the tender bits and set them aside. Cook separately, or lay them on top of the tougher pieces in the saucepan, so they do not get the direct heat of the fire. Some people steam rhubarb. It is delicious placed in a glass casserole — always without water and baked for ten minutes in the oven. The stringy, sloppy, •sharply acid mass served on some tables is a culinary disgrace.