" A Prince of Ur. By Homespun. As Abrani reached the small door which led from his tower into the courtyard, he heard a sudden pounding upon his door. He listened intently and caught the distinct whistle which was fhe accepted signal. Instantly he undid the bars. It was Javanu. "My master, the servants and slaves of this palace have refused to go out into the groves for this night's rendevous. Most of them have fled to the Ziggarut, and this palace is near deserted even of soldiers." "And where is Lot?" "He hath gone to draw the shepherd dukes and their soldiery into the confines of the Ziggarut to be ready for thy coming." "And Mardan?" "Alas, none know where the arch-traitor hath fled. But all is confusion in these walls. Dost know that Azzi-jaami hath per- ished by the wiles of his wicked wife? He lies silent at the foot of his own throne." "And the women?" "Iscah hath hath fled none know whither. Nahor hath taken the brides Milcah and Irit, who is to wed Lot this day or next, little to any of us. if life is left Master, we perish if thou dost not come forth and bind up our scattered forces. Why not flee at once — "Am I not here on my honor? And see you yon platoon of silent Nubian soldiers in that distant gateway? Nimrod would not leave my life to chance escape, be sure of that. My father's slaves and retainers may depart, for they have been left to grad- ual mutiny under the traitor Mardan, these ten years, while we all were distant far from here. But Nimrod knows the worth of my life." "What shall we do?" "Tell me, where is Sarai?" "She is within her own gardens, master, for not long since I saw her through the lattice moving in her porches." A confusion of voices without the portal caused the two whisperers to listen intently. "Creep quietly," hissed a voice outside. "Bring thy fel- lows, and be sure they have the bandages and scarfs to muffle her cries." "And her damsels?" "Who stays for shrieking damsels? This place is now in mine " " " — 2(j(j RELIIiF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. own charge. Post thy men at convenient places. Line the gate- ways. Heed not the cry or call of anyone save only when thou hearest mine own voice."" It was the guarded voice of Mardan, speaking to a corn- pan y of Assyrian soldiers, fresh from Nimrod's armies. Javanu caught the sleeve of Abram and quivered with both wrath and apprehension. The voices died away as the soldiers crept silently forward to women"s quarters. steal into the Even as they stood, muffled beating on the small gate-panels caused Abram to thrust his ear down to the latch. A soft sound of sobbing caught his ear. Like a flash he threw open the door and as he undid its fastenings the princess Sarai caught his hands and he drew her swiftly within. "The soldiers — they are after thee— Run up for Eleizer. He is in the tower ob- "Javanu, quick! servatory. Bring him with thee. On the second terrace, undo the door of the inner room — bring down the weapons. Go quickly." The figure beside him was breathing in great gasps of fear or excitement. "Sarai, tell me — She felt the throbbing intensity of his tone, and paralyzed with fear as she was, her pulses flew like quicksilver in her veins. She had never heard that tone in Abram's voice in all her life before. And though the destruction of the world was just be- • fore them, Sarai was swinging in space with only that sound be- tween her and oblivion. She bowed her face on her hands. The motion caught the instant attention of the prince, and he drew slightly away from her present nearness. In the faint light he could see the bowed attitude of the lovely presence be- side him. — — Was it fear- or anxiety for Mardan did she know of that vile wretch's treachery? — "Thou hast come my princess — "The palace is deserted. Mine own serving-maidens only re- main. Just now, they bade me flee to thee for direction and help for all this stricken household." "Camest thou only for help?" His great form shook from turbaned head to sandalled feet v/ith the violence of his temptestuous emotions, but he ventured not to touch even the sleeve of her abaya. "The very universe is sinking with fear about us, my lord and I—" "Yes, and thou?" His own soul was caught up on the high mountain of human desire and though the stars halted in their course, he would know the truth. Life without Sarai from this moment was unthink- — — " " — " " - A PRINCE OF UR. 267 able. — Her presence was wine her breath exhaled a subtle incense — which overpowered men of all degree. And he why he had wreamed of this moment all of his mature life. He would hold the very sun in space till she had spoken her will in his ear. — "Mardan" she whispered affrightedly, "he hath turned traitor —he hath corrupted half the palace and his minions are filling every hall and court —save only mine own. I fear for his next move." — "Yes my princess yes — — "The Petesi is not here we— are alone— we women —hast thou heard me, lord Abram?" 'I hear thee — princess — and need thee as the sun needs I the bounteous earth —to blossom and to bring forth. my soul — just to see thee and— suffer I in With a low cry Sarai was on his bosom, clinging to his pil- L'lrd — neck with wild abandon. Her prince her lord she was — — — not deceived this was life not death and transportation to the realms of light Whether it were a moment or an eternity, they clung to each other while the river of life swept them out into the eternal chan- nel of oneness with God and creation. The rush of footsteps down the tower stairs was no less startling to their absorption than was the sudden clanging of swords without and the screams and piteous cries of damsels who were struggling with the ruffians in the outer courtyard. "Quick, my princess. Up the stairs. On the upper terrance, thou canst bolt the door behind thee in my tower room. No — one will find thee there. When the noise subsides dost heed — — me my beloved come thou down, gather thy serving women — and good Javanu will lead thee and thine to the rendezvous — — without the gates of the city. Dost hear and heed For the distracted girl was weeping on his breast, and he had to catch her arms and draw them to her side — — — "Nay princess -queen where is thy courage — "' Instantly, she sprang from his grasp — and with but a little sobbing smile at him she flew up the stairs, whispering bravely over her shoulder as she ran — "Fear not for me, my lord. I have thy love I shall not — forget thy wise directions — T shall be safe without the walls Fearing lest the soldiers should break lu's door and thus further endanger Sarai. the prince opened it a little, holding his toe in the crack and from this vantage point lie seizerl a weapon from Eleizer, and then flinging wilder the door he laid upon the congested' mass of struggling soldiery with such fierceness that after ten minutes' charge (hey fell, blocking the ])assagc wa\- with ihc dead I)()dies which heaped up into a huge jirotecting mound. "Now, shut and l)ar the ('oor when T go without. Javanu — 268 RELIEr SOCIETY MAGAZINE. dost hear?" Abram spoke in his own tongue, lest the Assyrian soldiers hear his words. "Eleizer and I shall stay without. But thou must guard the treasures of this sanctuary." Bewildered and off their guard with the onrush of Abram's powerful sword thrusts, as he and Eleizer flung themselves headlong without the doorway, the disorderly mass scarce knew whom they were striking or why. Abram drew farther and farther from his own gateway. Eleizer at once perceived his master's strategy, and swept beside him till they had drawn the soldiers far away from the tower entrance. "I shall give myself up, Eleizer," he panted, "I shall be quite as safe in the Ziggarut as here, and our treasure will be safer if I am gone." The fighting, struggling mass worked gradually down to the outer courtyard. Abram allowed them to take his sword. Nimrod sat restless upon his newly-erected golden throne, in the pillared and lofty lower halls of the Zig- garut of Ur. He had been worshipped with abject sub- mission and in some cases, genuine admiration, by the small army of priests who dwelt in the colleges and Temple courts. They had washed the feet of their high priest with perfumes of Elam, they had anointed his head with ointments of precious Babylonian ungents. They had opened their most sacred stores of incense wherewith to burn in the sacred vessels before him- self, as the living embodiment of all their gods to which in his ab- sence they bowed down with slavish devotion. The few were in transports of joy at his presence from very exaltation of re- ligious frenzy — the many — ah the worldly wise hypocrites — amongst the ungodly these were filled with selfish delight that this formal visit of their god-ruler would fasten forever their priestly yoke upon the burdened shoulders of the "stinking mul- titude," in the province and city of Ur. The great hall where Nimrod sat that evening before the rigorous Sabbath, was richly decorated with sculptured dados, the bas-reliefs painted in brilliant colors. There were ivory and golden chairs, tables and divans the bases of bronze, gold, silver, ; and alabaster held riotous bloooms. The walls were tilted and emblazoned with all the cunning arts and glowing richness pos- sible to Assyrian or Semmitic invention. Here and there the walls were hung and the couches were covered with such costly tapestries that even Nimrod glanced with sensuous delight ui^on their woven glories. The figures of men, of flowers and of animals, especially the royal lions of Assyria, were bi)ldlv outlined or delicately limned in the ex(|uisite textures of the curtains around the walls. t1ic mvcrings of the conches and the rugs piled under his feet A FRINCE Of UK. . 269 "Must have cost these rapacious priests a full four millions sesterces" — he muttered in his heavy curling beard, as he cast his eyes about him while the slaves of the temple were lighting up the myriads of lamps which stood about in their golden bowls high up on their covered and twisted alabaster and silver ped- estalsfl "Teak wood must be common in Ur," he said aloud to an at- tendant who was facing him as he turned to view the lovely carved teak-wood taborets which were scattered at intervals side by side with the inlaid ivory couches and chairs. Soldier, hunter, and rufifiian though he was. he loved beauty and was a liberal patron of the arts. "Who hath fashioned all these finely wrought pieces?" he asked of his vizier, in the Assyrian tongue, his Rab-saki. "The master artist, Azi-jaami." "Who is Azi-jaami?" "He is the master designer of your servant Terah, the Petesi of this great city." "Ah, I remember. His daughters are to be offered on the sacred altar of dedication at midnight, so?" "The lord of the earth hath spoken it." The thought recalled at once the cause of his brutal restless- ness. "Where are my sorcerers? Where is Mardan? He hath promised to bring me the princess Sarai. Why dare he tarry?" Instantly the vizier clapped his hands, for he saw the gath- ering storm on his master's brows, and he must avert the ex- plosion at any cost. "See, thou lord of the earth, thy slaves are approaching." Instantly a long procession of slaves, bearing woven silver- threaded baskets of ripe dates, others with richly wrought golden baskets of figs, or of pomegranates, of apples and of luscious grapes, all arranged with artistic care upon their gleaming gold or silver slavers and baskets approached Nimrod. — "Behold, my master " and the eyes of Nimrod were turned to see the very picture of what was taking place emblazoned in gold artistry on the lofty friezes of the royal audience hall. Nim- rod was delighted. "Who is this fellow, Azzi-jaami?' Shall not Nimrod retain him as court artificer?' "The honor would be great to a hireling " whispered the — jealous vizier. The whims of kings were very uncertain moor- ings for men. "Where is Mardan 1^" roared the monarch. di\crtrd but for a nionuMit b\- the wiles of si chief Rab-saki. (TO BE rONTTNUF.n.)