Betty Morgan's Dilemma. Ruth Moench Bell. "What's the matter now?" Mayor Jones looked up appre- hensively when his mother, white and breathless, rushed into his office. "One of Betty Morgan's boys has been taken to the juvenile court," Mrs. Jones explained in one breath, as she sank into the cliair her son set out for her. "Betty Morgan's boys?" the mayor puzzled. "Why, the youngest of them is six feet in his stockings and considerably be- yond juvenile court jurisdiction." "I don't mean her sons or her grandsons," Mrs. Jones ex- plained. "She has been lettting the neighbor children come in for a story hour once or twice a week, telling them about the great musicians, and playing their compositions for them, till the children are all on fire to do something themselves. Little Jimmy Walker was selling gunny sacks to get the money to buy a violin. I suppose he found a sack in somebody's back-yard and took it, thinking it was no use and they have stirred up a fuss; and had him arrested. Well, I'm sure I can't see anything to laugh about." Mrs. Jones expostulated as the Mayor sat back in his chair and rocked with laughter. "Betty is almost sick over it, and the boy and his parents are broken-hearted about the disgrace." Mayor Jones quit laughing long enough to say: "Haven't you grandmothers had trouble enough with the young scalawags you've reared without taking another bunch on your hands to worry over?" "It hasn't been a worry," Mrs. Jones defended. "Betty has had the most interesting kind of a time with those eager young- sters. And they are all saving their pennies and chopping wood for neighbors and selling papers and staying away from picture shows to save the dimes so they can buy them some instruments and have a juvenile band and a young people's orchestra." "Why not a symphony orchestra and a grand opera com- pany?" the mayor laughed. "It would be just as reasonable." "Well, why not?" his mother answered seriously. "I hope some day we shall have both." "Why, it would take those children ten years to accumulate enough dimes and pennies to buy the instruments alone for their juvenile band." "That's the pathetic part of it." Mrs. Jones admitted. "And it would mean so much to them if they could only have it. And BE'f'jy MORGAN'S DILEMMA. 261 there Arthur Halgrave, with all his talent, driving a dray for is a living. He hasn't had a bit of substantial encouragement since he returned from his studies in Boston. A juvenile band that might grow into a big, fine band is the dream of his life. Half the money this town spends on picture shows, if spent on listen- ing to our own children's concerts would pay for the instru- ments and instructions and give the young people some encour- agement to develop their God-given talents." "Hear, hear!" the Mayor cried, delightedly; "why. mother. you are getting eloquent." "I feel eloquent, or indignant, or something, when I see those enthusiastic boys and girls yearning to do something them- selves instead of merely listening to or about somebody else. Why can't we have 'Made in Utah' our slogan for amusements as well as anything else? We wouldn't need juvenile courts if we had juvenile bands and such interests to keep the young folks busy and happy and aspiring. It was some such ideal as this that President Rrigham Young was trying to establish in the old pioneer days. Think of the home theatricals and the joy they gave." "I believe you are right. Mother." Mayor Jones had grown suddenly serious. "Evil is generally misdirected energy, or mis- understood motives, or lack of healthy, happy occupation." Mayor Jones rose from his chair. "I suppose you want me to go over and explain to the judge?" he asked as he got into his coat. "But that will not be necessary. I'll telephone over. What I am going to do is take up the matter of your suggestions with the city council. They are in session now. I shall suggest a mass meeting of the people, and see if we cannot help Betty Morgan out in her ambitious enterprise." Mrs. Jones caught her boy's hand and pressed it to her cheek. "Tom," she cried, "you are the dearest boy a mother ever had, even if you are mayor. You can depend on the Relief So- ciety to do all it can to help out." "Help out," the Mayor exclaimed warmly. "You are the whole thing. What you women have been doing for yourselves has been the inspiration of this town. And now you have started an enterprise that is going to mean more for North Hammond than anything we have ever attempted. Why shouldn't this town have a symphony orchestra, and a grand opera company, and a band that would be the pride of the state? A juvenile band is the beginning. And stranger things than these have grown from smaller beginnings. It will all take time, but it is not im- possible. You need the town behind you. and I think I can prom- ise it." .And the mayor was right. North Hammond got behind I he enterprise the grandmothers had launched, and gave it a! — — 
 boost that sent it rolling. Cornets, cellos, violins, flutes, made theif initial wailings and screechings all over town. And when the first concert was given, the hall wouldn't hold the throng of eager, proud, parents and citizens. But the proudest moment of all to the grandmothers was when the mayor, at the close of the concert, arose and addressed the audience: "Ladies and gentlemen," he proclaimed with enthusiasm, "whatever keeps the soul part of us alive is vastly worth while. Long have the Relief Society relieved temporal wants and ad- ministered comfort, both spiritual and physical. But it remained for the grandmothers, who comprise the major part of the Relief Society of North Hammond, to do more than that. At an age when most people quit growing and advancing, they have sud- denly shown that age is no bar to learning. "They have not only done this for themselves, but they have started others, the young people, to develop the soul part of themselves, and at the same time give us the opportunity to get acquainted with the rich music the masters have composed, music that has been a closed avenue of delight to North Hammond till now. "Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a toast: 'The Grandmoth- ers of North Hammond, the grandest grandmothers the world " ever knew.' And the toast was cheered to the echo. THE PE.\SANT MOTHER. By Maud Baggarlcy. Woman of the Field, whose breasts hath fed Thy nurnerous young. While thy uncreamed, sinewy hands (Not thy mute tongue) Have paeans sung Since labor is itself a song of praise And a reproach through endless days Pale lily-fingered ease Thou art the seedtime and the harvest of the Earth For in thee is the World renewed and afiven birth.