A Testimony Elder Peter E. Johnson. I have prepared the following statement of a remarkable incident in my missionary experience, with the hope that it may increase the faith of my children, and any others who may read it, in the divinity of this great latter day work. I was called on a mission to the Southern states, in the spring of 1898. I received a letter from the President's office stating that Elders Francis M. Lyman and John W. Taylor would attend the Emery stake conference to be held the latter part of April, 1898, in Castle Dale, Utah, and was asked to appear before them in relation to that mission. I was set apart by Elder Heber J. Grant, of the Council of Twelve, in June, 1898. Elder Taylor asked me to accept a mission to Colorado. I had no objection; but when questioned by Elder Lyman, he saw my name had been marked for Colorado and he said: "Well, we need missionaries there; perhaps you'd better go." On further Colorado. told him questioning I had made no asked me if Then choice. I had he chosen said: "The Lord wants you to go to the Southern states." A companion of mine was laboring as President of the East Kentucky conference, and in our correspondence we had each expressed a desire that I would be assigned to that conference. I received a letter from him asking me to use my silent powers, when being set apart, and he would do the same, to see if we could not persuade President Elias Kimball to send me to Kentucky. After assigning the elders to their various conferences, President Kimball asked if there were any elders not assigned, as he wished one more to be sent to the East Kentucky conference. The thought came to me that my prayers would be answered, as I had not yet received an appointment, and I, of course, thought I would be sent to Kentucky. When I reported that I had no appointment. President Kimball said: "Yes, I have given you yours." Not being able to find on record where the appointment was made, he said: "I expect I will have to send you to Kentucky, but I do not feel good about it. Are there any others who have no assignments?" Another elder stated he had not yet received an assignment, and immediately President Kimball said: "You go to East Kentucky." This bothered me, because I could see no reason why I 450 should not go to Kentucky, instead of the other elder; and I did not yield in spirit to the request made. President Kimball then said: "Wait a moment, there is something wrong." Then he reviewed the condition. He turned to the other elder and said: "You are to go to Kentucky!" Still I did not yield, in my mind, to the wisdom of it, and he finally turned to me and said: "Elder Johnson, will you go where the Lord wants you to go?" I saw the condition and said: "Yes, wherever the Lord wishes, I shall go." He said: "Will you feel good about it?" I told him I would, whereupon he said: "The Lord wants you in Mississippi." I reached Mississippi the 22nd of June, 1898, and on the 8th of August was taken down with the chills and fever, which turned to malaria. I became so low that the President sent his counselor and two elders to see me in relation to being released and sent home. The yellow fever quarantine came on; I was not able to leave; and then I had the following experience: I was lying on a bed, burning up with the fever, and the elders who had been sent to ascertain my condition were very much alarmed. They stepped out of the room and held whispered consultations. They were so far away that under ordinary conditions I could not have heard what was said; but in some manner my hearing was made so keen that I heard their conversation as well as if they had been at my bedside. They said it was impossible to think of my recovering, and that I never would go home unless I went home in a box. They therefore decided they might just as well notify the President and make necessary arrangements. The following day I asked to be removed into the hall, where it was cooler. I was lying on a pallet (or bed.) There was an attendant with me; the others having gone to Sunday school, which was being held about one hundred yards away. Soon after they had left I was, apparently, in a dying condition, and my attendant became so fearful of my appearance and condition that he left me. I desired a drink of water but of course was unable to get it myself. I became discouraged, and wondered why it was that I was sent to Mississippi and whether it was simply to die in the field. I felt that I would prefer death, rather than live and endure the fever and the agony through which I was passing. I thought of my people at home and of the conditions then surrounding me, and decided that I might just as well pass from this life. Just as I reached that conclusion this thought came to me: "You will not die unless you choose death." This was a new A TESTIMONY 461 thought, and I hesitated to consider the question; then I made the choice that I would rather die. Soon after that, my spirit left the body; just how I cannot tell. But I perceived myself standing some four or five feet in the air, and saw my body lying on the bed. I felt perfectly natural, but as this was a new condition I began to make observations I turned my head, shrugged my shoulders, felt with my hands and realized that it was I myself. I also knew that my body was lying, lifeless, on the bed. While I was in a new environment, it did not seem strange, for I realized everything that was going on, and perceived that I was the same in the spirit as I had been in the body. While contemplating this new condition, something attracted my attention, and on turning around I beheld a personage, who said: "You did not know that I was here." I replied: "No, but I see you are. Who are you?" "I am your guardian angel; I have been following you constantly while on earth." I asked: "What will you do now?" He replied: "I am to report your presence, and you will remain here until I return." He informed me, on returning, that we should wait there, as my sister desired to see me, but was busy just at that time. Presently she came. She was glad to see me and asked if I was offended because she kept me waiting. She explained that she was doing some work that she wished to finish. Just before my eldest sister died she asked me to enter into this agreement: That if she died first, she was to watch over me, protect me from those who might seek my downfall, and that she would be the first to meet me after death. If I happen to die first, she wished me to do the same for her. We made this agreement, and this was the reason that my sister was the first one of my relatives to meet me. After she arrived, my mother and other sisters and friends came to see me, and we discussed various topics, as we would do here on meeting friends. After we had spent some little time in conversation, the guide came to me with a message, that I was wanted by some of the apostles who had lived on the earth in this dispensation. As soon as I came into their presence, I was asked if I desired to remain there. This seemed strange, for it had never occurred to me that we would have any choice there in the spirit world, as to whether we should remain or return to the earth life. I was asked if I felt satisfied with conditions there. informed them that I was, and had no desire to return to the fever and misery from which I had been suffering while in the body. After some little conversation this question was repeated. 462 with the same answer. Then I asked: "If I remain, what will I be asked to do?" I was informed that I would preach the Gospel to the spirits there, as I had been preaching it to the people here, and that I would do so under the immediate direction of the Prophet Joseph. This remark brought to my mind a question which has been much discussed here, as to whether or not the Prophet Joseph Smith is now a resurrected being. While I did not ask the question, they read it in my mind, and immediately said: "You wish to know whether the prophet has his body or not?" I replied: "Yes, I would like to know." I was told that the Prophet Joseph Smith has his body, as also his brother Hyrum, and that as soon as I could do more with my body than I could do without it, my body would be resurrected. I was again asked if I still desired to remain. This bothered me considerably, for I had already expressed myself as being satisfied. I then inquired why it was that I was asked so often if I was satisfied and if I desired to remain. I was then informed that my progenitors had made a request that if I chose I might be granted the privilege of returning, to again take up my mortal body, in order that I might gather my father's genealogy and do the necessary work in the temple for my ancestors. As I was still undecided, one of the apostles said: "We will now show you what will take place if you remain here in the spirit world; after which you can decide." When we returned to the place where my body was lying, I was informed with emphasis that my first duty would be to watch the body until after it had been disposed of, as, that was necessary knowledge for me to have in the resurrection. then I saw the elders send a message to President Rich, at Chattanooga, and in due time all preparations were made for the shipment of my body to Utah. One thing seemed peculiar to me, that I was able to read the telegram as it ran along the wires, as easily as I could read the pages of a book. I could see President Rich, when he received the telegram in Chattanooga. He walked the floor, wringing his hands, with the thought in his mind: "How can I send a message to I could follow it on the wire. his father?" The message I saw the finally was station sent, and and the telegraph operator at Price, Utah. I heard the instrument click as the message was received, and saw the operator write out the message and send it by 'phone from Price to Huntington. I also saw clearly the Huntington office and the man who received the message. I could see clearly and distinctly the people on the street. I did not have to hear what A TESTIMONY 453 was said, for I was able to read their thoughts from their countenances. The message was delivered to my aunt who went out with others to find my father. In due time he received the message. He did not seem to be overcome by the news, but began to make preparations to meet the body. I then saw my father at the railroad station in Price, waiting for my body to arrive. Apparently, he was unaffected; but when he heard the whistle of the train which was carrying my body, he went behind the depot and cried as if his heart would break. While I had been accompanying the body enroute, I was still able to see what was going on at home. The distance, apparently, did not affect my vision. As the train approached the station I went to my father's side, and, seeing his great anguish, informed my companion that I would return. He expressed his approval of my decision and said he was pleased with the choice I had made. By some spiritual power, all these things had been shown to me as they would occur if I did not return to the body. Immediately upon making this choice or decision, my companion said: "Good. Your progenitors will be pleased with your decision." I asked the question why, and I was told that it was their desire that I should return to the body, hunt up my father's genealogies and do their work in the temple. In all this time no one had offered to touch me or to shake my hand. Just how my spirit entered the body I cannot tell, but I saw the apostle place his hands upon the head of my prostrate body, and almost instantly I realized that the change had come and I was again in the body. The first thing that I knew, I felt a warm life-giving spot on the crown of my head, which passed through my entire body, going out to the tips of my fingers and toes. I then heard distinctly the same words that had been pronounced by Elder Grant when I was set apart for my mission: "Go in peace, and return in safety." After entering the body I saw no more of the messengers who had been accompanying me, but I had a vivid recollection of all that had taken place. The local elder, who had been left to attend me, but who became frightened at my condition and went away, had not yet returned; but I later learned that he had gone to Sunday school and, at the close of the exercises, he notified them of my death. The Saints, elders and friends were gathered outside the paling, or fence, discussing matters, and trying to decide just what to do. I was still very thirsty, and arose to get a drink, but found that the water was warm. I got off the pallet, or 454 bed, on which I had been lying, carried the bucket of water to the edge of the gallery, threw out the warm water, went to the well which was seventy-five feet deep, drew a fresh bucket of water and quenched my thirst. The Saints, elders and friends, who were out at the fence, were observing all this, but they feared to come near me. Finally, Brother Morton, at whose home I was stopping, came through the gate, up the walk toward me, but before reaching me he turned icy cold and stopped. I went up to him, took his hand, and invited them all to come in and handle me, telling them that a spirit did not have flesh and bones, as they saw me have. Brother Morton looked at me, felt of me, turned me around, then went and looked at the bed on which I had been lying during my sickness. He then came back and handled me again and said: "I never was so scared in my life, for I thought you were a spirit." I told him that I was not now a spirit, but a real, tangible person. "How could you carry that bucket of water," he said, "throw it out and draw another, when for over a month you have had to be waited upon, and finally we all thought you were dead?" I told him I had been made well, and had come back to stay with them. This gave me a new idea; for, while in the spirit land, I did not shake hands with anyone, neither did anyone offer to shake hands with me; but now I felt a desire to shake hands with everyone. I thought this over, and the spirit whispered to me: "The spirits of the righteous do not deceive; hence, no shaking of hands." This cleared up that mystery; for the spirits of the righteous do not deceive, although they are as pleased to meet their friends in the spirit world as they are here. President Thos. R. Condie of the conference was notified of my recovery, and wrote me a letter in which he stated: "Ever since I consented to your release I have had no peace on that matter. Before you came to our conference the Superintendent of the Sunday school of the conference was to be released. We had no one to take his place and so I called a special fast of three days, with the elders, and prayed to the Lord to send someone who could take the place of Elder Dye, who was soon to return home. In answer to our fasting and prayer you were sent to this conference. We became weak in the faith and asked for your release, even after we had fasted and prayed and asked the Lord to send someone here for that purpose. If agreeable, Brother Johnson, while you have been released honorably and can go home, if you choose, we would like very much for you to A TESTIMONY 455 remain here and accept the call for which the Lord has sent you into this conference. The information which came to me, through this experience, cleared up the mystery of why I was to g"0 to the south and to the Mississippi conference. While I was in the spirit world I observed that the people there were busy, and that they were perfectly organized for the work they were doing. It seemed to me a continuation of the work we are doing here, — something like going from one stake to another. There was nothing there that seemed particularly strange to me; everything being natural. I have often been asked how long I was in the spirit world. The last I remember of hearing was the singing when Sunday school commenced, and when I got up and drew the water, Sunday school had closed. The local elder did not notify them until just as they were closing. Sunday schools were held one and one-half hours. Huntington, Utah.