Notes From The Field Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary Oneida Stake. DURING the latter part of the season the Preston Fourth Ward Relief Society of the Oneida Stake held a party in honor of the retiring officers who had recently been released. A special invitation was given to all former Presidents of Relief Society since the organization of the Ward—ten were present, and each received a beautiful corsage. A very fine program was rendered, and this included the reading of a paper telling the outstanding characteristics of each of the officers. This was followed by a delicious luncheon. The picture below is a photograph of those who have held office in this Ward since its organization in 1902, and every president is alive and active in Relief Society work. Parowan Stake. A FEATURE of the Mothers' * Day celebration in Parowan Stake took the nature of a birthday party for all members of the organization in each Ward. A delightful program was furnished, consisting of music, poetry, etc. This was followed by dainty refreshments. Very careful preparation was made for the event, and loving wishes were exchanged by the members. In this Stake many gardens have been planted. Vegetables for canning have been grown, and there is beauty everywhere through the flowers which have been abundantly cultivated. This is one of the Stakes expressing keen appreciation for the, lessons during the year, and on the whole a very successful season was completed., OFFICERS IN ONEIDA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SPRINGDALE RELIEF SOCIETY Zion Park Stake. AN evidence of the interest which the movement inaugurated this year to bring the mothers and daughters closer together, was given in the very fine celebration held in the Springdale Ward of the Zion Park Stake.' The two pictures show the mothers of the organization and the daughters who participated. The daughters gave the entire program under the direction of the literary teacher. It was the beginning of a very fine celebration of this worthy movement in honor of former President Clarissa S. Williams. Rexburg Stake. "THE Stake Chorister of Rexburg Stake sends the following: "One of the most interesting and unique entertainments ever presented in Rexburg was the Festival of Music, Poetic Literature and Art, DAUGHTERS OF SPRINGDALE WARD, ZION PARK STAKE NOTES FROM THE FIELD featuring local women composers, writers and artists. This was sponsored by the Music Department of the Rexburg Stake Relief Society and was held in the Rexburg Fourth Ward Chapel, Tuesday, June 23, 1936. Lovely poems, short stories and musical numbers delighted an audience of two hundred and fifty women. Two hundred and twentyfive pictures were on display and inioe ig a TE 643 cluded oil paintings, water colors, plaques and tinted photography. Five young ladies served light refreshments at the punch table. So many expressions of delight and appreciation were given that we have decided to make this an annual affair and thereby encourage women and girls to express themselves in the creative fields of music, literature and art." roar rma = atone MRS. MARY A. HOLDEN AND HER SIX DAUGHTERS 644 North Idaho Falls Stake. ROM one of our new Stakes comes the report of a very delightful observance of the first Daughters' Day in the Relief Society. The picture is of Mrs. Mary A. Holden and her six daughters. Sister Holden has been an active member of the First Ward Relief Society since its organization. She has been a Visiting Teacher with a record of 100%, and has also been treasurer, Stake Chorister and Ward Chorister. Her daughters are following in their mother's footsteps, and are a fine example of the spirit of the day which it was intended to honor. South Davis Stake 'N the Magazine Drive, as in other phases of Relief Society work, this enterprising Stake has met with signal success. In the Bountiful Second Ward a particularly effective plan was devised. It was decided that some kind of a container should be left with the sisters; the most available, naturally, was the enveRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE lope, as this could be carried in the purse. Soon after the decision to use this, a large quilting and sewing day, where approximately eighty sisters were assembled, was held. The Magazine Agent noted among those present a number who were not enrolled in the Relief Society. She made it a point to personally contact each sister present and present her with one of the envelopes. The fine points of the Magazine were suggested. Some of the sisters present had paid some months in advance, but they were anxious to have the envelope so that when they had a few spare cents they could put them in and be ready when their subscription was required. Many of the sisters who had known very little of Relief Society work or the Magazine caught the enthusiasm of the others, and it was a very successful occasion. The effect of it was not lost with the day, but continues. The Agent reports that each week she receives some of the envelopes, and she feels quite sure that a very successful drive will be conducted this year. Please put pennies in envelope for Relief Society Magazine (See Report Above)