(To be continued ) Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon OCTOBER. The mystic touch of Indian summer spreads its glorious tapestry o'er the twilight of the year. OTTE LEHMANN, metropolitan soprano, was the great attraction among all the artists at the famous Salzburg musical festival this last summer. As Eva in Der Meistersinger and Leonore in Fidello she was especially dramatic and vital. FEIZABETH BERGENER, famous throughout Europe for her realistic acting in "Escape Me Never," has now a new picture equally succesful called "Dreaming Lips." F, THEL DREW BARRYMORE, after 24 years as a leading star on stage and screen, has retired from the world of glamour and expects to enjoy a happy peaceful life on her country estate. She offers to help ambitious young women in the line of dramatics at any time. UTH CHATTERTON, charming actress, has gone in for flying as a hobby. She instituted the Chatterton cross country derby, but she herself had to make a forced landing almost at the start. MA8IORY GESTRING, just 13, petite and youthful Californian, captured the Olympic wonien's springboard diving championship for the United States at Berlin this summer. MB: MARIE BROWN, of Midvale, has been appointed justice of the peace. She is the first Utah woman to recéive this honor. ELEN JACOBS has held the American tennis championship crown for four successive years. This year she meets a formidable array of nationals from all parts of the country. Miss ROONA BREEN, of New York, was ejected from St. Joseph's Roman Catholic church because she attended dressed in slacks. The priest defended his action with the statement, "She wouldn't appear" before the president nor the king of England so dressed neither can she approach my King of Kings." RUTH BRYAN OWEN ROHDE, has resigned her diplomatic post to enter the election campaign. Is this not a loss of dignity in Madame Minister! RACE COOLIDGE, recently returned from Europe, has a_ preference for American hats. It is also stated skirts will have more fulness and ermine will be the popular fur. MEBs: JEANETTE ACORD HYDE, who died last August 16 in Honolulu, was sixteen years a member of the General Board of the Relief Society. She was prominent in many lines of activity, and much beloved. Fer SITWELL'S "Victoria of England," Eleanor Dark's "Return to Coolami," Christine Parmenter's "King of Beacon Hill," and Honore Morrow's "Let The King Beware," are among the late books by women.