Lesson Department (For First Week in December)
THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY
Lesson 3 A DIVINE CODE TO THE IDEAL LIFE (The Sermon on the Mount)
Helpful References (The Sermon is divided for convenience into four major divisions.)
Matthew 5:1-16; 5:17-20; 5:21; 7:12; 7:13-27. Luke 6:20-26; 6:27-42; 6:43-49. Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi 12:1-16; 3 Nephi 12:17-20; 3 Nephi 12:21; 14:12; 3 Nephi 14:13-27.
Jesus the Christ, Chapter 17. King, The Ethics of Jesus, Chapter 5 Farrar, The Life of Christ, Chapter 18.
1. Christ Emphasized Significant Principles.
In this lesson we shall deal with certain aspects of the Sermon on the Mount as a whole. So important did the Christ consider the content of the Sermon, that he delivered it also to the Nephites on His first appearance to them as a glorified, resurrected being. Most, if not all of the great truths, set forth in this, the greatest of all sermons, are to be found in world literature written long before the earthly advent of the Savior. Such we should expect on the assumption that the gospel was in the world before the coming of our Lord. The great principle of love and mercy was by no means a new teaching. The Old Testament, the Jewish Scripture, emphasizes the love of God and the duty of a man to love his neighbor. Where is to be found much finer teaching than that given in Micah 6:8? "He has told thee, O man, what is good; and what does Jehovah require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?" Or that expressed in the Book of Jonah, which has fitly been termed the "gospel" before the gospel? Was not practical religion aptly expressed by Isaiah 58:6, 7? "Is not this the fast that I have chosen? To loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the bands of violence, and to set at liberty the oppressed, and that ye break every yoke? Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and to bring the poor that are cast out to thy house? When thou seest the naked, that thou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh?"
Not only these but other great teachers exalted high principles of living. Buddha extolled the principle of mercy, and Confucius taught the Golden Rule, albeit in a negative way. Despite all we have said, however, it must be confessed that the Savior in his Sermon carries the teachings of the good life to a height scarcely expressed elsewhere. This lies not so much in the fact that others have not said any of the great things he says, but in the fact that he seizes on those principles that are really and truly significant, sifts them out from the less significant ones, and consistently carries them through to their logical ends. President Henry Churchill King of Oberlin College quoted with approval the statement of Professor Votaw: "Jesus' originality?and the term is not misapplied?consisted in his divine ability to separate the true from the false, the permanent from the transient, the perfect from the imperfect; and then to carry forward the whole circle of ideas and practices to their ideal expression." Also quoted with approval are the words of the great German scholar, Wellhausen: "The originality of Jesus consists in this, that he had the feeling for what was true and eternal amid a chaotic mass of rubbish and that he enunciated it with the greatest emphasis."
2. The Savior Delivered the Sermon to the Nephites.
It is of significance that the Savior in his appearance to the Nephites gave the Sermon substantially as it is written in Matthew 5, 6, 7, rather than in the version of Luke. Most scholars recognize the report of Matthew to be of greater authenticity than Luke's. Latter-day Saints have good reason to believe that the Sermon was written down by some responsible person at approximately the time the Lord gave it. This must be so; otherwise one is at a loss to understand His strict injunction to the Nephites to keep careful records. (3 Nephi 23:7-14.) Modern revelation seems to imply that, contrary to widely accepted views of some scholars, records were kept in the earliest days of the Primitive Church. (See also Doctrine and Covenants 7; 63:20, 21. Compare Matthew 17:1-10; 93:6-18.)
3. The Ideal Life.
Needless to say, the Sermon on the Mount has been the subject of almost endless analysis and study. For our purposes here, we may more or less conveniently follow the outline of Professor Votaw, one of the greatest students of the subject. In Matthew 5:1-16 the ideal life is described. The characteristics of such a life are described in verses 1-12. Of the latter, 3-12 constitute what are known as the Beatitudes. Inasmuch as these form the basis of the lesson to follow we shall not discuss them here. Verses 13-16 sum up the mission of the ideal life. Those whose lives are fit become "the salt of the earth," "the light of the world." They are to let their "light shine before men" that God may be glorified thereby.
4. Relation of the Ideal Life to the Earlier Hebrew Ideal.
In the next major division of the Sermon, Matthew 5:17-20, the Savior points out the relation of the ideal life to the earlier Hebrew ideal expressed in the Mosaic law. "Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets. I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil." The older law had fulfilled its purpose. As the Lord explained to the Nephites, "the covenant which I have made with my people is not all fulfilled; but the law which was given unto Moses hath an end in me. Behold, I am the law, and the light." (3 Nephi 15:8, 9.)
5. Outworkings of the Ideal Life.
In Matthew 5:21; 7:12 we have a masterly description of the outworkings of the ideal life. First, in deeds and motives. (Matthew 5:21-48.) Not only should there be no slaying or adultery, but, what strikes at the root of these, no hatred or impurity of thought; oaths were to be replaced with simple truthfulness, and retaliation with service that outruns selfish demands. "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." Secondly, in real religious worship. (Matthew 6:1-18.) Worship to be acceptable in the eyes of God demands a humble and filial spirit. The inner aspects of it rather than the outer aspects as practiced by the Pharisees are emphasized. "Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen of them: otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven." Thirdly, in trust and self-devotion. (Matthew 6:19-34.) The real treasures of heaven are to be found in the single-hearted and trustful service of God. "But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness." Fourthly, in treatment of others. (Matthew 7:1-12.) Here the Savior points out the danger of unrighteous use of our critical faculties and by implication the sacredness of human personality. "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them."
6. The Duty of Living the Ideal Life.
The last major division of the Sermon, Matthew 7:13-27, deals with the duty of living the ideal life. The door to the Kingdom is narrow. "Enter ye in at the strait gate." The true and false subjects are readily contrasted. "By their fruits ye shall know them." In conclusion we may point out that the Savior "taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes." (Matthew 7:29.)
Questions
1. Were the principles enunciated by the Savior in the Sermon on the Mount new to the world? Collect and present proofs of your statements.
2. In what ways was the Lord a master teacher? How do you account for His ability?
3. Can you point to some elements original with the Savior in the Sermon on the Mount?
Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.)
1. Compare Luke's account of the Sermon on the Mount; (Luke 6:20-49) with that of Matthew. (Matthew 5, 6, 7.) Briefly report the differences. Can you satisfactorily account for them?
2. Make a careful comparison of the Sermon on the Mount as reported in Matthew 5, 6, 7 with the Sermon delivered by the Savior to the Nephites (3 Nephi 12, 13, 14.) Report briefly on the following points: (1) The differences in the two accounts; (2) The contributions of the Book of Mormon to an understanding of the Sermon as, e.g. The groups of people to whom certain parts of the Sermon applied. (3 Nephi 12:1-2, 14; 13:25; 14:1.)
3. How would you account for the fact that so much of the Sermon as reported in the Book of Mormon is word for word the same as that given in the Gospel of Matthew?
4. With the help of the Book of Mormon see if you can make a better and more logical outline of the Sermon than that used in the body of the lesson. Report your results to the class.
TEACHER'S TOPIC
TEACHER'S TOPIC FOR DECEMBER THE PARABLE OF THE PRODIGAL SON (Luke 15:11-24)
THE parable of the Prodigal Son was given in answer to the murmur of the scribes and Pharisees who said, "This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them."
"And he said, A certain man had two sons: "And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. "And not many days after, the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance in riotous living. "And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want. "And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. "And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no man gave unto him. "And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough, and to spare, and I perish with hunger! "I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against Heaven, and before thee, "And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants. "And he arose, and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and fell on his neck, and kissed him. "And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against Heaven, and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. "But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet: "And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it; and let us eat, and be merry: "For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry."
The first instance in the parable is an assertion of self-will, when the son asks for that part of the inheritance which belongs to him. The father apparently without protest divided his substance and gave the son his rightful share. Not many days after he gathered his goods together and journeyed into a far country as a demonstration of his freedom to do as he chose. He indulged in spendthrift folly and soon became destitute. He became a slave to sin, demonstrating that "a man who does as he likes becomes a slave to his likes." But when he came to himself, he saw his mistakes and sorely repented. To return to his father broken and penitent was not easy. He said, "I have sinned against heaven and in thy sight." His confession and repentance was genuine and was accepted by the father.
This story portrays the love God has for his children and the forgiveness he is willing to extend to them. It emphasizes the intense love God has for the sinner and his eager desire to reclaim him. The folly of waywardness and the humiliation that results from sin are pictured. It proves the justice of giving the fallen a chance to rise and the value of true repentance. If an earthly father can be so forgiving, how much more forgiving is our Heavenly Father to those who seek forgiveness. It is said of this parable that it touches "the nerve of actual life and has caught vividly human history." Charles Dickens said: "It is the most touching passage in all literature."
May we emphasize in our study of this parable of the Prodigal Son the true value of genuine repentance and the love and compassion extended to the one who had sinned. If the father could accept his repentance and confession may we not view with a more forgiving attitude the mistakes of others? We desire to apply the teaching of the Parables to our own circumstances, to make applications of their teaching to our lives. Forgiveness, humility, repentance, performance of duty, charity for others, mistakes, power of prayer, stability and courage are daily problems with most of us. These lessons can be learned through prayer and search. "Search the Scriptures for in them ye think ye have eternal life."
WORK AND BUSINESS
LESSON II. SUGGESTIONS FOR CHRISTMAS GIFTS
AT a recent visit to the home of the California Allied Arts at Palo Alto, the writer was charmed with the handicraft of the women. The quaint artistic buildings were brimming with beautiful things. Things of lasting artistic value which could be passed on from generation to generation as heirlooms. Wood carving was applied to many articles such as chairs, seats, chests of various sizes, book-ends, Candle sticks, and even the "guest book" had a carved wood cover. Wood carving is one of the old standard arts and has been practiced for ages. One room was devoted almost entirely to block printing. Very effective drapes, chair and cushion covers, bed spreads, and fabrics for other purposes were on display. There are great possibilities in block printing. It may be applied to collar and cuff sets, blouses, jackets, dresses, handkerchiefs, luncheon sets, table runners, etc.
A wall hanging of Batik attracted considerable attention. The beautiful effects obtained in this work are well worth the effort required. Another effective wall hanging was made with the crewel embroidery, and another one with wool couched on. These were in bold designs and bright colors.
Much weaving was done and the looms were made in the carpenter shop on the grounds. (The looms cost $80.00 complete.) Old furniture was mended in this shop ready for refinishing and decorating. Hooked rugs were all about. Some attractive chair sets were hooked with rather heavy cotton rags. They had tap strings to fasten them to the chairs and were especially suitable for the breakfast room. The rags were not cut as the yarn hooked rugs are. Natural color string rugs were soft looking and beautiful for bedrooms.
There were lamp shades of parchment and other materials, woven sewing baskets and bags, tooled leather articles, lacquered boxes and bowls, tile top tables, pottery and many other examples of artcraft.
Any woman who has a desire to express herself through the work of her hands can acquire skill if she will but try. Instructions for all these crafts may be obtained in "Handicraft for Every Woman," published by the General Board of Relief Society. On page 91 the full details of wood carving are given. Block printing may be found on page 77, basketry on page 96, rug making on page 98, lacquer work on page 104, leathercraft: page 106, redecorating furniture, page 33, lamp shades page 50, Batik page 58, embroidery page 62. There is also a bibliography in the back of the book which tells where more information on all of the subjects may be obtained. These references may be found in the public library.
Gifts made according to any of these standard crafts are really valuable and not a passing fad which will be discarded in a short time. While we are making gifts why not make this kind of gift which has a lasting artistic and useful value. There are many other suggestions for inexpensive gifts in "Handicraft for Every Woman." For example it tells how to make beautiful and useful trays from old picture frames; bags, slippers, cushions, children's caps, etc., from old felt hats; waste baskets, screens, desk sets, book covers from wall paper; articles from cellophane, bedspreads and table cloths from old lace, to apply stenciling to various articles, etc. Instructions on knitting and crocheting are to be found, and there are so many useful and beautiful gifts to make in this way. In fact it would be hard to find a book which contains more suggestions as to what might be made for Christmas gifts than "Handicraft for Every Woman." ' Stake work leaders may consult libraries for the books listed in the Bibliography and obtain more details to give to the ward groups.
LITERATURE (For Third Week in December)
Lesson 3 ALICE FREEMAN PALMER
Miss Freeman, who sat working in her office just twelve hours before the ceremony that made her Mrs. Palmer, was not deprived of all those things that help to make a bride; for she wrote to a child in whom she was interested saying: "On Friday morning, December 23, I am to be married in Boston, just Mr. Palmer's family and my own being present. A few of our dearest friends are to be invited to meet us immediately afterwards. I wish my little girl could be there to meet her new father. But I will answer now the questions you have in mind. I am to be married in a long white moire dress, with point lace and veil, to be a real bride, you see,?and my reception dresses are dark red velvet, white lace, white silk and yellow satin. We go to housekeeping immediately in Cambridge."
And so Mr. Palmer proceeds with the story by telling us that during the spring of 1888 they occupied a furnished house in Cambridge where Mrs. Palmer was warmly welcomed. "Study was thrown to the winds; we devoted ourselves to resting, to becoming acquainted with each other and with our neighbors." "In a university town every new comer must eat his way in and during the course of his adoption as a member of the household attend a kindly series of dinners and teas." President Elliot gave a luncheon in Mrs. Palmer's honor attended solely by the Harvard faculty and their wives. Similar festivities occupied their evenings. Their afternoons were given over to calls. Mr. Palmer remembers that he made three hundred and forty in the course of the season. Monday the weekly holiday of Wellesley doors were open to Mrs. Palmer's former associates. Mr. Palmer says making a business of society was so new to him that he was interested in noting its effect. He says for a time it puzzled him to know why it was that at the end of a day Mrs. Palmer came out fresh and he exhausted. But he concluded that she had been enjoying people while he had been trying to enjoy them.
It is refreshing to know that this woman whose husband declares she did the work of ten men was on occasion "an excellent loafer;" "that she could when work was over take to a holiday a heart as light as a school girl of twelve. Her very aptitudes for business fitted her also for recreation, since whatever was appropriate to the moment, even idleness, got at once her full attention. Such intentional methods of escaping responsibility was greatly assisted too by the native nimbleness of her physical senses, her response to natural beauty, the vivacious interest she took in every moving thing, and her disposition to fill small matters with romance."
The book gives the idea that these gifted people were ideally suited to each other; that their married life was happy. Mr. Palmer says he hopes that the omission of their letters to each other will be pardoned as he could not bear their publication before his death. One feels in this union something of the adoration of Elizabeth Barrett Browning and Robert Browning for each other.
The summer after her marriage Mrs. Palmer went to Europe with her husband. He was on sabbatical leave. While there she said to one of her friends. "I don't know what will happen if life goes on growing so much better and brighter each year. How does your cup manage to hold so much? Mine is running over, and I keep getting larger cups; but I can't contain all my blessings and gladness. We are both so well and busy that the days are never half long enough."
Mr. Palmer contended from the first that marriage would increase Mrs. Palmer's sphere of usefulness. "And so it proved. The work begun at Wellesley was not broken during the fifteen years in Cambridge but was vastly assisted by the surroundings of a home." She loved her home duties. Nothing that she ever did, says her husband, was done better than her housekeeping to which she devoted one-third of her time.
There was much anxiety about the education of young women at the time. They were "just emerging from sheltered homes, desirous of education and of whatever else might help to enlarge their lives. Many feared they might drop their delicacy and spiritual power in the process. Mrs. Palmer did much to lessen this danger and to quiet those fears. She not only opened college doors, but she helped to fix a standard of what college girls should be. Persuasively and in her own person she showed how a deepened intelligence and a wider knowledge of affairs may heighten the characteristic and ancestral traits of woman and permanently increase her charm. It was an immensely important task and one for which she was singularly fitted."
She had been placed on the Board of Trustees of Wellesley, but she was ready and able to serve other colleges. In 1892 the University of Chicago was founded and Mr. Palmer was asked to be the head of the department of philosophy and Mrs. Palmer Dean of Women and professor of history. Mr. Palmer was receiving four thousand dollars a year at Harvard, the Chicago position would pay them twelve thousand, six thousand each. Yet "her voice was from the first against accepting the call. She loved her home. She cared little for money, having modest tastes and much enjoyment, as I have already shown, in getting large results from small outlays. My roots, she thought, were too deep in Harvard soil for removal to be quite honorable. She doubted whether our scholarly opportunities in Chicago would equal those in Cambridge, did not like to interpose such a distance between herself and Wellesley, and perhaps dreaded the wear and tear to which she would be exposed by another absorption in college duties. We accordingly declined the call."
It seems extraordinary in these days when nearly all people reach out so continuously for money that these people should have such a keen sense of values. President Elliot was meeting the situation by saying that he preferred Harvard's traditions to Chicago's millions.
"But President Harper was insistent. Founding for the first time a great co-educational university in a city he desired Mrs. Palmer's planning and superintendence, even if she were not to be continuously on the ground. He proposed, therefore, that she should accept the Deanship of Women without teaching and with no obligation to reside in Chicago more than twelve weeks. The periods of her residence might be distributed throughout the year according to her convenience. She was to have general superintendence of the women's lodging, food, conduct, and choice of studies, and to select a sub-Dean to carry on the work in her absence."
This she did for three years but resigned in June, 1895, to go to Europe. But Wellesley and Chicago were not the only institutions claiming her time. At her very door Radcliffe College was coming into existence. In connecting this new college with Harvard the question arose whether degrees should be given by Harvard or by Radcliffe. As we should expect Mrs. Palmer favored Harvard. It became apparent that Harvard would decline to give the degree unless Radcliffe possessed at the start an endowment of $100,000. The Women's Education Association of Boston of which Mrs. Palmer was president took up the matter of endowment with enthusiasm and appointed her chairman of a small committee charged to raise the money. At the end of the winter $90,000 had been raised. Then the Harvard Corporation refused to grant the request and the money was returned. A few years later she assisted in raising $110,000 for Wellesley.
Because of her keen interest in every type of woman's college she gave much time to fostering the Collegiate Alumnae Association. In 1891 she was made president of The Women's Education Association and served in that capacity for nine years. In 1889 she was appointed by Governor Ames a member of the Massachusetts State Board of Education. She was reappointed by Governor Greenhalge and Governor Crane until she became a senior member of the Board. At her death she was still a member of the Board, having served in that position for thirteen years.
Susan B. Anthony has served American women in one way, Jane Addams in another, and Carry Chapman Catt in yet another, but Alice Freeman Palmer was the great sponsor of woman's education. And for her zeal and intelligence in the work she has not gone unrewarded. In 1882 her own Alma Mater, the University of Michigan, conferred upon her the degree of Doctor of Philosophy, in 1887 at the centennial celebration of Columbia University she received the degree of Doctor of Letters, and in 1896, Union University at its Centennial conferred upon her the degree of Doctor of Laws.
In the chapel at Wellesley is a monument to her memory depicting a beautiful young woman for whom she is pointing the way with one hand, with the other she is touching her with great tenderness, at the same time speaking to her words of wisdom.
"To commemorate Miss Freeman after she became Mrs. Palmer, Mrs. Durant, wife of the founder, in 1888, built a new hall and named it Freeman Cottage. Nor was she forgotten at Chicago, for, since her death, "a group of its friends have set a chime of bells in its tower, forever to voice her praise."
She went to Europe again in 1902 as another sabbatical year had come around. Shortly before her wedding anniversary she fell ill from a strange disease of which medicine knew nothing. She lingered a few days after an operation and then died. She was not yet forty-eight.
When Mr. Palmer returned from Europe a service was held at Cambridge. This was on January 31, 1903. A chorus of Harvard men and another of Wellesley girls furnished the music, singing her hymn, "The Tempest," and others especially dear to her. Four college presidents addressed those assembled. The first speaker was her own beloved President Angell, followed by President Hazard of Wellesley and President Tucker, and closed by President Elliot of Harvard.
This was she of whom one said: "All had significance and found their fitting place in her responsive soul. 'One flower, one tree, one baby, one bird singing, or one little village would move her to love and praise as surely as a garden, a forest, a university, an orchestra, or a great city.'"
"I never knew one who more fully, with William Blake, 'Could see a world in a grain of sand, And a heaven in a wild flower: Hold infinity in the palm of the hand, And eternity in an hour.' Or with one of her own poets, Henry Vaughan, could so? 'Feel through all this fleshly dress Bright shoots of everlastingness.'"
In his closing chapter Mr. Palmer admits that he has not done the thing he set out to do, nor is it ever possible; for like a great sunset a great soul defies description. Trying to give a summary of her many qualities blended into one personality he says: "Such was her wealthy unity, the despair of him who would portray."
Since her death her statue has been placed in the Hall of Fame in New York City.
Questions
1. Do you think domestic skill compatible with her intellectual attainments? If so, why? If not, why?
2. Discuss Alice Freeman Palmer as a champion of education for women.
3. Do you think she was easy of approach or difficult? If difficult, tell why. If easy, tell why.
4. Do you think her wise or unwise in her refusal to go to Chicago? Give your reasons for your point of view.
5. Recount some of the honors that came to her in her life.
Note: For further information consult chapters nine to the end of "The Life of Alice Freeman Palmer," by George Herbert Palmer.
SOCIAL SERVICE (Fourth Week in December)
THE SPIRIT OF SERVICE IN INDUSTRY
Text: Civic Sociology, By Edward A. Ross Chapter XIV
THE development of a social attitude of mind to temper and modify the reactions of individual life and to help give society an orderly arrangement is an urgent problem in human relations. The world has not yet reached the point where people love their neighbors as themselves; hence, the constant need of controlling the personal forces which guide mankind. Particularly is this true in industrial life.
The present economic order has developed from centuries of effort to earn a living from nature. It involves the methods and standards of production, efforts to develop social control of the producing process, the proper distribution of products, and the standards which have evolved to govern behavior of workers and consumers. While human life is not completely controlled by economic factors, it has always been so conditioned by economic requirements that the struggle thus occasioned has come to be one of the most basic elements of life. It is out of this struggle that the problems of this lesson have evolved.
The responsibility and the part played by various factors in production are among the most important questions from the social point of view. To crystallize thought upon these issues, this lesson will develop the following points:
1. To show that the production of goods for consumption is a social fact rather than an individual one.
2. To develop an understanding of individual responsibility in rendering service in industry.
Not much more than two generations ago nine-tenths of the people lived in rural regions and were engaged in agriculture. The home was a self-sustaining economic unit producing most of the goods needed. Wool was carded, spun, and made into family garments. Food and shelter were the products of family enterprise. One's responsibility for service was to his family. Those families where energy and integrity abounded were usually independent, and toward the close of life, financially adequate. While life was strenuous because of the economic struggle, it possessed many socializing forces not found in the modern home. Father and son, mother and daughter worked together with unity of purpose on projects aimed to promote family or community well being. A spirit of service equal to the day permeated life.
The transition from this early stage to modern industrial organization is marked with the growing use of tools and industrial organization. The increasing use of capital has made nature more subject to man. As man has depended more and more upon these mechanical aids the population has collected in industrial centers and factories, with the ownership of such means of production being concentrated into the hands of fewer people.
As business converged, step by step, into industrial centers, workers left their rural communities and gathered where their chances of finding employment were better. Cottage life where all worked together gave way to the employee communities near manufacturing plants where life was regulated to the tune of the factory whistle. Father and sons would leave early in the morning to return after an exhausting day of labor. Often the daughters of the family also took an active part in the industrial scheme, commencing to earn their living very early in life. Although there was often much that was undesirable, and under some circumstances much that was actually pitiable, there was usually some contact between the workers and the owner of the factory. Some feeling of personal pride and responsibility usually existed in the hearts of both.
But ownership and management of industry have changed. Whereas factories and business organizations were formerly in the hands of individuals who managed their own property and maintained personal relations with their employees and their communities, the ownership of the means of production has been gradually passing from individuals to large companies, leaving the laborer but a small instrument in the productive process. The great divisions of capital and labor are the result of this divided ownership. Thus, one of the fundamental trends of productive economy is away from scattered, local, individual ownership and management toward corporate ownership and management.
This has had a profound effect upon the distribution of wealth. It is estimated that about four-fifths of American business wealth, not including banking, is in the hands of corporations. Collective proprietors operating on a national scale have supplanted the individual proprietor. Ownership, instead of resting with one individual, is diffused among the hundreds of stockholders who form the corporation. Responsibility for the well being of the individual has likewise become diffused with such ownership. Concern for the social well being of the worker becomes a community concern along with the productive process. Our ideals of social control are changed to meet the new situation. The whole process is necessarily then a social fact and cannot safely be left to the whims and fancies of individual control.
That such a point of view is being accepted is shown by the social security legislation now being passed by various nations and the different states in the United States. The worker who spends the most productive part of his life in the service of others should not be left without economic security in old age. The employer may be interested primarily in profits, not in the welfare of the community. If by making an article of nice appearance but less enduring value, or curtailing the sanitary and health conditions of his workers, he can increase his profits, he is apt to do so. If through deceptive advertising he can best his competitor, many will not refrain from doing this. In each case society loses thereby. If the adoption of a new invention will lower costs in a firm thus throwing many workers out of the opportunity to earn a livelihood, the change will be made, no matter how great the human costs to the workmen suddenly deprived of employment. It is proper that social welfare should be protected by restrictions prohibiting anti-social acts.
The professions after a generation of experience have developed a code of ethics which goes far in regulating man-to-man relations. Because there are some individuals who fail to live up to the ideals of their group, the standard is nonetheless so classified, generally speaking. As pointed out in the text, the motive of the professional man is actuated by an ideal of service to mankind. The interest of the patron and society must be protected and his advertising cannot be of the same obtrusive character practiced by the business man. Is it too much to expect that those who control our great productive processes shall be actuated by the same altruistic motives, serving the better and finer interests of those whose services they employ instead of exploiting the human energy of women, children, and other workers?
The rights of laborers in the economic order have changed equally with industry itself. Our pioneer ancestors grew up under the teaching that individuals in a society should be willing to help those who are economically less fortunate. Particularly was this one of the ideals of our Church. But the world has come to think that individuals should be allowed to engage in economic activity without being restrained by law or some other form of social control. Such a theory in economic literature is known as the "doctrine of laissez-faire." Believers in that philosophy held that complete freedom of action and individual initiative bring the greatest good to the greatest number. Such rugged individualism may have been suited to scenes in the early development of frontier life, where the early settler who pushed his way to the unsettled West and started new communities, maintaining law and order by use of his rifle, was subject to but little social control. Nor was there much need for social control while the industry which followed the settler was decentralized. But under such conditions laissez-faire became the open course, and attendant evils followed in its wake.
Laissez-faire developed to the point where government control of natural resources is now being instituted. As has been pointed out, business units have also developed to the point where major industries are in the hands of tremendous corporations with diffused responsibility. Under such conditions some form of social control becomes necessary to protect the workers. Is it not logical that in a country where, for the sake of the conservation of natural resources, the old policy of laissez-faire has been curbed, that another kind of laissez-faire?the exploiting of the human energy of the masses for the benefit of the few?should also be restricted?
Service for service, if regulated according to the value given, and so recognized, is not a romantic ideal, but a practical form of reward for labor adapted to everyday life. Of necessity, greater ability should be rewarded with greater returns if society is to progress. But it does not follow that factory workers are nothing more than ants in hills of ceaseless activity where all-powerful ant-eaters may gobble the fruits of their labor in unconscionable swallows. If the attempt is made society should see that the swallower's Adam's apple is bruised to an unpalatable extent.
But, on the other hand, to charge industry with the responsibility of humanizing its attitude and point of view would be unfair without holding individuals responsible for rendering service to industry. There should be no element of the attitude that the world owes one a living? livings must be earned through honest effort. Under individual freedom men went to the extreme. The evils which developed are not to be tolerated today. Ethical ideals were lost in the quest for money. Children were compelled to work excessively long hours. Unfair advantages were taken of women; harmful drugs were sold as medicine, adulterated foods and short weights were sold in the name of honest dealings. Individual freedom to do as one pleases has outlived its day since we all demand protection from the unscrupulous actions of others. Absolute liberty in society is impossible. Conflicting interests of employer and employee must constantly be reconciled. However, individual rights to property, initiative, and reward for services rendered must in no sense be abridged as long as those personal rights contribute to social well being.
The social point of view is far from realization in the lives of the majority of people, and until it does permeate the public mind there will be need of teaching responsibility for rendering honest service in industry. Restricting actions in the interest of public welfare, need not in any way limit the right of an individual to his private control and management of property. The teachings of the scripture still set the goal to which all should consciously strive. "Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might." Ecc. 9:16. "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets." Matt. 7:12.
Since the law does not set up the ethical standards by which business should be conducted, an approach to those standards can be achieved only through education of the people. A consciousness must be awakened to lead the way.
Activities
1. Apply the principles of the professional spirit given in the text: pp. 193-195, to the spirit of the vocation, if one, through which your family earns its livelihood, and see if the standard of conduct, generally speaking can be raised to a higher level. In case adjustments are found desirable, where does the greater responsibility rest, with the employer or the employee?
2. List the basic elements of the commercial spirit and the professional spirit to see if it is possible to work out a harmony between the two.
CHILD GUIDANCE
Lesson 3 WHY OUR CHILDREN ARE NOT ALIKE
IF we were to gather a basket full of newly fallen maple leaves, measure the length of each and carefully record each measurement, we should find that most of them would measure near an average length. There would be a few very long ones and a few very short ones. The greater the difference from average length, the more rarely would we find it.
Human beings differ in much the same manner. Most men would measure near five feet eight inches; there would be a few as tall as six and a half feet and a very few as tall as eight feet, just as there would be a few as short as four feet and a very few as short as two and a half feet. Their weights would probably be distributed in much the same way. Now, when we come to the intelligence or brightness of people, we find there are many average intellects, a few very bright people and a few very dull ones. There is no sharp line in the distribution between the bright and the dull. Their personality characteristics would vary in like manner if we had accurate ways of measuring them, i.e., taking the general run of people, their personality characteristics would be called ordinary, but there would be differences of various degrees in each characteristic, such as good humor, cheerfulness, sociability, grouchiness, gloominess, or solitariness.
Why is it that people differ so much and in so many different ways? Why do our own children who have the same parents and the same home, differ so much? Some folks would say that it is because they are born different, or that Nature made them to be different; others would say that it is because they have been fed or trained differently. Both statements are partially right, but to say that differences between individuals are due to either heredity or environment is misleading.
Heredity and environment interact to produce differences between people, and both are probably always involved. Even a person's physical size is influenced both by what kind of body he inherits and by all of his health habits. Differences in personality and intelligence of two children can be accounted for only by recognizing that they are born different even though they have the same parents, and also that their environment (or the world they live in) is different even though they live in the same home. For is it not so that there can be only one first child who has no older brother to tease and whip or love and take care of him? The last child in a family is born to older parents who may have done all their experimenting in training the older children. Their methods of educating the children probably have become wiser by the time the last child comes along, but sometimes the youngest must suffer the handicap of being pampered excessively. Children in the middle of the series are usually treated in a still different way, perhaps by being more or less ignored.
The differences in the worlds in which the various children grow is easily understood. The general quality of a child's personality may be seriously affected, for good or ill, by just such conditions as those mentioned here.
To further clarify this point, consider some other conditions that may arise in the child's life to make him different from other children. Suppose a child is born with some physical deformity, such as a club foot. The deformity itself may not be associated at birth with any defect of mind or personality, but as soon as the child becomes aware of the fact that he is not like other children, he may begin to develop compensating or counteracting habits of acting in his association with other children. He may cultivate a very delicate and refined manner, or he may do the opposite and become extremely boisterous and overbearing to cover up the physical deficiency. Later in life, his deformity may handicap him in successfully competing in physical games. To this circumstance he may compensate by excelling in intellectual pursuits.
Sometimes children differ widely because they are born with different aptitudes. One child may have more natural ability in handling tools and concrete objects than his brother. Because mechanical tasks come easily to him, he spends his time at them and takes pride in his achievements, whereas his brother who may have a special talent for music spends his time at the piano. At first the differences between the boys in musical and mechanical ability probably were relatively small?a difference produced perhaps by heredity?but after a few years of following up these abilities with special practice and training the difference is greatly increased, and this is probably due to environment.
Frequent and prolonged illness early in a child's life may result from inheriting a weak body (although this is not always the case); but after he has been a sick child for a considerable time, he may develop, by learning, certain characteristics of personality that will be his style of life the remainder of his days. He may cultivate extremely gentle and grateful qualities which will make him lovable, or he may learn to expect more than his share from others and go through life a selfish and grasping person. Here again we see how an inborn difference between children may be the starting point for a very wide difference in disposition and interests later in life.
On the other hand, the training in the home is sometimes adjusted so as to make original differences between children diminish. One of the girls in the family seems always to have been very aggressive and irritable. An intelligent parent tactfully manages to teach her that other members of the family should be considered if she is to avoid being irritated and if she wishes to find happiness in their society. In time the mother observes that the daughter in question does conform more nearly to a style of considerate living that has always been easy for the other girls. The children may differ in ability to grasp school work; but the considerate mother gives the slower one a little more assistance and encouragement until the differences in school achievement appear less than at first, even though one child may be brighter than another.
It should be clear now that our children differ because, first, they inherit certain differences; and second, because they are never subjected to exactly the same environment. The differences are, therefore, due to both heredity and environment. Our neighbors' children differ more from ours than our own do from each other, because theirs have completely different heredity and a home environment that may differ radically from our own. The children of different countries may differ, both because they are racially somewhat different and particularly because their culture is not the same.
Family traditions for doing good school work as well as inherited ability both run in families, and both are usually important in producing scholars. Ability to succeed at special trades also is inherited to a certain extent; but the "talk of the trade" heard in the home also has much to do with the children's following successfully in their father's footsteps. The nervous or unstable temperament may be inherited physically, but the children of a mother so afflicted not only inherit her weakness but are subjected throughout their early years to unstable home conditions that come out of her defect. She explodes at them, complains of her ills, whines, gets ill to attract attention, and quarrels with her husband. Is there any doubt that her unstable nervous system is passed on to the children to incapacitate them to meet the unstable home conditions she inflicts upon them as well? They may be unstable as she was both because of the heredity and the environment she furnished. The behavior characteristics of parents are absorbed by the children socially as well as biologically.
After we have done all in our power to see that our children are well born, we still have the great responsibility of furnishing them an equally good social inheritance, consisting of family ideals of honesty, consideration for others, industry, and devotion to God and all His teachings.
Problems for Discussion
1. Explain how truth speaking could be passed on to the children both through the inheritance of intelligence sufficient for accuracy of thinking and by social influences in the home.
2. How should we speak of the relative influence of heredity and environment in causing differences between people? How can a parent reduce differences between children (when the differences are known to be undesirable)?