10 When To Begin By Mabel S. Harmer NOTED psychologist was A once asked by a fluttery young mother, "How old should my child be before I begin training her?" He in turn inquired, "How old is the child?" When the mother answered that her little girl was three years old he replied, "Madam, you are already three years too late." He was quite right. Children must be trained from the very cradle if they are to grow into the kind of men and women that we can be proud of. In the early years of a child's life his very helplessness is so appealing that it is a distinct pleasure to give in to his whims and caprices and do things for him that he might very well be doing for himself. A pleasure which must be curbed, however, if both the child and his mother are not to pay the well known piper later on. As the years go on and responsibilities should be added gradually the tendency is to postpone the day when Paul or Mary will be grown up. One cannot expect a child who has been shielded for the first part of his life to suddenly assume the obligations of adult life and do so successfully. The banker does not call his twenty year old son in and say, "I am going to hand over the business to you now, my boy. Here are the keys to the vault. Go to it," unless he has trained him in the work for many years previously. To do so might prove very costly but no more so than to usher him into adult life without previous guidance. Alt along the line we must build in the child habits of responsibility, self-control and co-operation and the earlier such habits are begun and cultivated the more usefully they will operate when needed. Children must be taught how to handle money by being given a small but definite amount to spend while very young. They must be taught to do simple tasks about the house and learn the value of moral laws. It is unfortunate that the wrong thing is often the easy thing to do. Perhaps eight-year-old Molly is given the task of making her own bed and drying the dishes. For a long time the bed will very likely look exceedingly lumpy and mother will be somewhat embarrassed if a chance visitor happens to see it. Dishes in very young hands are frequently broken and dishes cost money. Besides all this it often takes a great, deal more energy for mother to see that Molly does the work than if she went ahead and did it herself but she must put up with all of these inconveniences if Molly is ever going to be able to take care of a house when she grows up. The most unkind thing that a par- 606 ent can do in the guise of love is to 'spoil' a child. Of course he is adorable. He is cunning even when he is staging a little tantrum and it is sometimes extremely difficult to deny him things he wants or punish him for his misdeeds, but how sad it is to see a child robbed of the friendliness and companionship of other children because a fond parent has made his disposition unbearable. It sometimes happens, especially so of late, that a grandmother or aunt is staying in the home who insists on making the children "happy" at whatever cost it may be to the mother or the child itself. Their interest and pleasure in the children is a more or less temporary thing. It is the mother who has the responsibility and who in the long run will suffer the punishment if she does not firmly thwart these well meaning but erring relatives. HE natural instinct of the very young child is to want to do things for himself. When he insists upon lacing his own shoes and mother is anxious to finish dressing him and get back to her household tasks it seems to be a never ending job. It is essential, however, that he be allowed to gain these first lessons in self-reliance and the wise mother will allow him this practice in becoming independent no matter at what cost to her time and patience. If the child is curbed in these early efforts to help himself he will soon lose the desire to do so and allow his mother to wait upon him as much as she chooses. Later when she suddenly decides that it is time for him to do some of these little tasks for himself she may be much annoyed and chagrined because he shows so little interest in the process. It is essential, of course, that if a child is to learn to help himself he must have the facilities with which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to do so. There must be a step which will enable him to reach the lavatory easily and wash cloths and towels hung within reach. Hooks hung low enough so that he can reach them will encourage him to keep his clothes hung up. N such practical matters as working at household tasks, spending money wisely and learning manners it is fairly easy to shape a successful course of training. In other ways it is rather difficult to know just what to prepare our children for when they grow up since no one is certain just what kind of a world they are going to live in under rapidly changing conditions. One thing seems to be certain and that is that there is likely to be a great deal more of leisure. Besides additional labor saving devices there will probably be a shorter working day and a shorter week for everyone. Mothers face a new and important task in preparing their children to use this leisure time to their advantage. CHILDREN need not grow up to think that all their pleasures should be expensive ones. They should not grow up expecting to be amused during all their hours of leisure by forms of entertainment that develop no resources within themselves but depend exclusively upon outside entertainment. Amusement of this sort quickly palls. The parent who is alert to the future needs of her children will make the home environment as stimulating and sympathetic as possible to the nourishing of hobbies. She will keep alive the child's enjoyment in simple things. Perhaps one of the good things that will come out of this depression is that we are having to go back to more simple pleasures and pastimes for our happiness. Children who begin while young WHEN TO BEGIN to develop absorbing intefests will not need exciting entertainment when they grow older but will be able to find it in their own efforts and in the things of their own creation. Children who grow up without having their inner resources cultivated need to find artificial ways of whiling away their time. They develop what is known as "grandstanditis." They must have movies, radio or anything that they can watch and hear rather than participate in. They should be able to enjoy a walk in the woods, learn the value of beautiful music, sculpture or a fine play. Their lives should be enriched with worthwhile experiences so that they can learn discrimination. GOMETIMES problems arise which we could not have foreseen when our children were smaller and consequently we are called upon to cope with them now without any previous warning or preparation. Such a one is the current problem of the young girl smoking. Only ten years ago a member of the church asked a representative of a large tobacco concern if the time would ever come when they would advertise for the patronage of the woman smoker. The man replied that such would not be the case, that they would not go so far as to proclaim the woman a smoker in their advertising. Alas! That he should have been so mistaken. It was only a very short time until ads appeared showing the young woman looking on approvingly at a man smoker. Next she was seen with the cigarette in her own fingers and now the most subtle means of advertising is used, that of giving the testimonials of socially prominent and _ beautiful women. It is possible that many of our girls have taken to smoking because resistance has not been built up in 607 them from the cradle as it has been in our boys. We never dreamed that it would be necessary. Parents are sometimes hurt that their boys are not considered qualified to go upon missions or perhaps be called to positions of responsibility in the church. They have not realized that in order to successfully preach the gospel to others they must have such a thorough understanding of it and a testimony as can only have come from early and persistent training. This work of early training can be most frightfully discouraging. After years of impressing upon Johnny the necessity of saying 'please' and 'thank you' he will still go blissfully on his way without saying any of them except when especially reminded. His table manners seem to be those of a young outlaw when he refuses to hold his table implements properly, puts his elbows on the table and uses his thumb as a pusher. The reward of years of patient training comes, however, when he is invited out socially and finds that he has absorbed correct manners unconsciously and need not be embarrassed about the right thing to do at the right time. HE teaching of correct moral principles, habits that make for good health and habits of industry must be begun at an early age and adhered to so unceasingly that a mother might easily be tempted to throw up her hands in despair at the whole problem if she didn't realize that she has to live only one day at a time and that she is rewarded many, many times over when she gives to the world an upright, industrious citizen. A satisfying confidence in the child's future adjustment and a well earned and justifiable pride is a parent's greatest achievement.