A Power Irresistible By Eleanor Baird N olden times woman's place was solely in the home, but many changes have taken place within the last fifty years. For many centuries women have been spoken of as the power behind the throne, but already she has stepped out from behind it, and many who seem com- ~ petent to look into the future, see her sitting upon the throne itself, tomorrow. The reason that women have not taken their place side by side with the other sex in the past, has been because of their lack of opportunity but that excuse will not do now. Never has there been a time in the history of the world when women have had the opportunity that they have today. Their freedom is greater, their education is better and their thought is broader. They no longer have to be just interested spectators; they have the ability, and they should have the will to accomplish great things. Women have a different viewpoint on life and its fundamental principles than men. Save in war, busy men rarely organize except for fraternal purposes. Women, however, will always unite in pursuit of some common ideal. They are always struggling to raise standards, especially those standards that influence home life. Today they work side by side with men in every field of industry and government, but there are still too few of them. There are so many things that need improvement, so many things that are still undone, just waiting for women to come forward and help. Child welfare, cleaning up of politics and motion pictures, civic and educational improvements, and pure food regulations; these are all fields in which women can take an active part. The crime problem is another opportunity. It is interesting to know what was done along this line in Chicago alone. Six brave and clever women organized what was known as the "Secret Six," which threw the whole underworld into confusion. It is said that hundreds of gangsters left that city because of them. Today the politics of most women is simply that of their husbands or nearest male relative. If they have neither, they have no politics. This is really a disgrace to the sex. With the education offered women today, there is absolutely no excuse for their lack of interest in the policies of the nation. This is one thing women should attend to. Let it not be said that they are not interested or cannot be bothered with our nation's government. Woman is the greatest latent power in the world today. A power that is slowly but steadily growing. With competent leadership it will be a power irresistible for the good of mankind and for peace in the whole world. A good leader is one who recognizes public good above personal interest; she must have expert knowledge; she must be above average in spiritual, mental, and moral qualities; she must inspire her followers as well as lead them. She must have courage, unselfishness, enthusiasm, 640 and tact. All these things she can attain if she only has the desire and will-power. Women should listen, study, and take part in the things which will give an understanding in those matters which are of vital interest to the country and the world today.. Women must not sit helpless RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE when great problems of crime, graft, and war threaten to destroy their homes, life and liberty. It is woman's duty to make the best use of the Relief Society lessons, public lectures, the radio, and good books, that they may have a quieting, steadying effect on the future.