Trails of Smoke By Eva Willes Wangsgard HE trickster, Ulysses, is back among us. The wooden horse, tobacco, has been drawn into each town and hamlet to leave its trails of smoke. The one at Troy had but one deceiver left behind to tell his crafty tales while the modern ones have all the facilities of our age, the radio, the newspaper, magazines, and the billboard with all their counterparts. Ours, like the one of old, entered our gates in wartime. It was natural in those fevered days to give the boys, who were defending democracy for us, everything we could to make their lives happier and pleasanter. But there were present among us this trickster and his helpers. They saw a rich harvest in store and proceeded with the cleverest line of advertising that ever tricked an unsuspecting public. The gay-nineties type of buxom beauty of questionable repute left the tobacco program to be replaced by the trimmest, and most carefully dressed set of respectable looking young ladies that any woman's heart ever envied. With the guilelessness of the Trojans, many of our young innocents linked that state of perfection with the smoking habit and tried to attain it. For a short time a certain slogan, capitalizing on the fad for slenderness, tried to tell the not-so-slender ones that cigarettes were preferable to candy. There they met the determined opposition of other powerful interests and that slogan disappeared from our commercial art work. THER slogans were substituted and they grew in numbers. It is in the interpretation of those slogans that I fail to understand the gullibility of the public. Recently, the proprietor of a store let me examine his stock of tobacco, all the popular brands. Not one of those slogans appears on a package. Why? Because we have a Pure Food and Drugs Act which requires that only the truth concerning a product under their jurisdiction may appear on a container. There is no such law governing the statements by radio, in newspapers, magazines, on billboards, etc. The extravagance of the claims used in those media are governed only by the conscience of the advertiser. HEN again, the slogans themselves offer the greatest argument against the use of tobacco that I have ever read. Is it not self-evident that, if one company makes the claims ''They satisfy" that none of them satisfy, but the smoker is constantly harassed by an unsatisfied feeling, which gives the advertiser a definite point to which he can appeal? The statement itself is ridiculous. If that brand really satisfied the smoker, one package is all he would ever buy since no one carries a pleasure willingly beyond the point of satiation, or, if he does, it is no longer a pleasure. If one is "less acid," is that not an open indictment against the acidity of all cigarettes? Is it not ridiculous to advertise that. Such should be smoked "for digestion's sake" because of their "alkalinity?" If another is "kind to your throat" is that not proof positive that as a rule cigarettes are throat irritants? If one brand "never TRAILS OF SMOKE lets you down" is that not advertising the fact that most cigarettes give the user a fagged-out feeling? If the slogan is true, why "get a lift" from another. If one kind doesn't "get your wind," then does it not logically follow that all of them do? One could go on like this indefinitely. The point is that the tobacco companies themselves are pointing out the evils of the tobacco habit so widely and in letters so large that all who run may read. "THERE are three other points which I should like to make. The first is the matter of convenience. On the surface the wasted time seems like a small matter, but to me it is of great moment. Any person, who from long patience, sacrifice, and perseverence has finally acquired the key to the fuller life, knows that the only real happiness comes from accomplishment. There is no other thrill to equal the one that follows an accomplishment of worth. Those ancient peoples whom we sometimes pity had acquired a knowledge of human _ psychology that is scarcely out-done today. They said, "Labor is its own reward." It matters little what one's talents are so long as he develops them to the fullest measure of his ability in his working time here. The villain, tobacco, enters from the left wing. Tobacco cuts down the efficiency by its ceaseless grind on the nerves. Think of the interruptions and the consequent waste of time because the job has to wait for tobacco nerves to be soothed by another cigarette. When I was a child, I had an uncle who was a chain, roll-yourown cigarette smoker. We children used to ask, "Ugh! Why do you smoke, Uncle Al?" He always answered, "Why not? A chimney smokes" and his great There's where. 629 laugh would roll across the room. It was his son who told me that the chief reason why none of his seven sons took up with the cigarette habit was because every time there was a meticulous or heavy job to do on the farm such as the shifting of the rack for the beet box on the running gears of the wagon they had to stop, often in mid air and lower it again, while their father rolled, lit, and puffed at a cigarette. HEN there is the matter of cleanliness. Is it not inconsistent to patronize so religiously the several well-known advertised products that promise wonderful results from keeping down all bodily odors and at the same time succumbing to this group which adds more foul' odors than any natural bodily function any ordinary person might neglect? I insist that anything that smells like that is not clean. Anyone who has spent five minutes confined in a closed telephone booth knows what I mean. Often the stench in an office is so great that one not used to it might insist, as I did one afternoon to the embarrassment of an entire office force, since the boss was the offender, that there was a mouse, caught behind something, which was in very great need of interment. Of course, it is claimed that these odors and the stains can be kept down, but how few of the users do keep them down. HERE remains the matter of economy. Victor Hugo in his famed description of the povertystricken people of Paris said, "In the cupboards there may be no rice, but always there is tea and tobacco." In the last decade when just to feed our poor has been an insuperable problem think of the unfairness of expecting hard-working, self-denying people to supply tobacco, too. 630 Think how our schools have been handicapped for lack of funds and then imagine the beautiful buildings that could be built and the equipment that could be bought for the money spent in advertising these products alone. What right have we to consider ourselves civilized while we allow this leeching weed to flourish while we are unable to do justice to our children? Even in the homes where the fear of starvation has never stalked, think of the numerous little luxuries that the mother and children are denied and yet there is money for tobacco. How many mothers have longed for a few "white hyacinths to feed the soul" of the home and had to watch RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE them disappear in trails of thin, blue smoke. ET us return again to the simile of burning Troy and say that our unplanned and unbuilded churches, schools, libraries, and homes are only millions of plumes of blue smoke. One writer said of the steam engine age, "Many smokes still rise over the prairies but now they are wide and black where once they were thin and blue." Let me remind you how the thin blue trails of smoke have spread far beyond the prairies and are more numerous and much more treacherous than those that menaced the pioneer camps not so long ago. Magazine, page 455. GREETING CARDS RE you working to win one of the prizes offered by the Relief Society for greeting cards?