~ Our Project "Back to the Scriptures" By Hazel W. Wheeler The curtain rises on a family group of children preparing for an evening of Scripture study. They arrange four chairs in a semi-circle in front of a rocker which they place beside a reading table _on which stands a lamp. They place a Bible on the table and seat themselves. The first child calls to mother who is in kitchen finishing evening work. Lst Child: All ready, Mother. (Mother soon appears.) Mother: I am ready at last. (She smiles happily at the anxiously waiting children. 2nd Child: Now for some real true Bible stories. Our teachers tell us fairy stories but we like the true stories you tell us best. (Mother seats herself and takes Bible as she says.) Mother: Our story tonight is about Abraham, who had so much faith in everything the Lord told him, and obeyed him so well that Heavenly Father called him the 'Father of the Faithful.' We have already studied about whom?" (Mother indicates each one to answer.) Ist Child: Adam and Eve our first parents who lived in the garden of Eden. 2nd Child: Cain and Abel, two of their sons. 3rd Child: Enoch, the leader of the people who obeyed all the commandments and became so good that Heavenly Father took them and their city out of this earth. Ist Child: Noah, who built, the Ark and saved himself and family and two of every kind of animal, bird, and fish from drowning, all because he obeyed the Lord. Mother: Good. Now Abraham, (A knock is heard on outside door. Mother pauses, while Harry, Ist child, admits neighbor child.) Child: Mrs. Brown, Mama wants to know if you will please come over for a while. Our baby is sick. Mother: Certainly I will. Sit down while I get my coat. While I am gone children, you may review the names of the books of the Old Testament and perhaps by that time I may be back. (Exits with neighbor child. Her children are disappointed but rally bravely to her suggestions.) Ist child: Let's begin with the oldest, no the youngest, and see who can repeat the books of the Old Testament without making a mistake. 4th Child: (Stands and repeats books correctly. 3rd, 2nd and Ist do the same respectively. 2nd Child: Now what shall we do? Ist Child goes to door looks out and comes back and says: She isn't coming yet, what shall we do? 2nd Child: Let's repeat the names of all the books together and perhaps by that time she will be here. (They repeat books in concert. 3rd Child goes to door, looks out and returns saying): I can't see her anywhere. What shall we do now? 4th Child: Vl tell you! Let's play like you two (indicates Ist and 2nd children) were home studying the Scriptures and the Relief Society teachers came to visit you, and you said the books for them. Patsy (3rd child) and I will be the teachers. Ist Child: You don't know how to be Relief Society teachers. 3rd-4th Child: (In Chorus) Yes we do. Let us show you. Ist Child: Allright. (3rd and 4th Child scamper out and don long 620 coats also hats; a knock is heard on door.) Ist Child: Come in. (3rd and 4th child enter carrying purses as lst and 2nd children are busy studying Bible.) 2nd Child: (Looking up from Bible) How do you do? Sit down. 3rd Child: We are Relief Society Teachers. We called today to see if you are well, and how you are getting along these times. And if you are cooperating with us in our project, "Back to the Scriptures." We also bring you a message of good cheer. (Hands over a slip of paper supposed to be a verse.) 2nd Child: Yes, indeed we are cooperating. We enjoy studying the Scriptures. We love the true stories we find in them. Lst Child: We already know the names of the books of the Old Testament. 3rd Child: Youdo? Fine! Could you repeat them for us? (lst and 2nd children repeat them in concert.) 4th Child: Wonderful! Keep on studying the Scriptures and by the time you are grown you will be able to go on a mission and teach them to other people.. 3rd Child: We are happy to find you well. We must go now. We have other places to visit. (Both say goodbye and exit to return without coats, hats, and purses. They say together): Now don't we know how to be Relief Society Teachers? Ist Child: You did swell. 2nd Child: (Goes to door looks out and comes back saying) Mama isn't coming yet. What shall we do next? Lst Child: Let's go to sleep until she comes. Then we can wake up and hear the stories and not be sleepy. (Children, who are all sleepy, readily agree. They settle down in the chairs. One leans over on table, one occupies two RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE chairs, one uses the rocker and all are soon fast asleep and dreaming.) A colored light that represents night is turned on. Chanting is heard off stage. Chanting: Back to the Scriptures! Back to the Scriptures! The Scriptures are being searched The Scriptures are being searched Study and faith are being renewed Hope is revived again. (Before chanting ceases in come one at a time in their order people representing the books of the Old Testament. They come in like spirits out of the past, stand while the reader reads a speech then move up stage on platform. They are dressed in costume of Old Testament times with the name of the book they represent in large letters on a crown they wear.) Reader: The Prophets ever interested in the welfare of mankind scan the horizon of time down through the ages to catch a glimpse of the extent, if any, of their influence on present and future generations. (They shade their eyes with their hands and peer afar off into the future.) (All the Prophets chant in chorus: Back to the Scriptures, etc.) Reader: (First Genesis) I am Genesis which means beginning. I give you an account of the beginning of the world, of time, man, sin, and civilization. I tell you of the righteousness of Adam and Eve, our first parents. Of Abel their son and first man slain. Enoch the leader of the people of the perfect city; Noah who preached repentance one hundred and twenty years to a disobedient people. Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph who was sold into Egypt and the many faith promoting, character building lessons their lives contribute to the world's best literature. Second, Exodus: I am Exodus. I give you an account of the oppression of the Children of Israel during their sojourn in Egypt. Of the miracles Moses performed to soften the hard heart of King Pharaoh. Of the seven plagues OUR PROPHET "BACK TO THE SCRIPTURES" 621 sent to goad the Egyptians and their flinty king into releasing the Israelites. I recount vividly the flight of Israel—their crossing the Red Sea on dry land, and many other manifestations of the mighty power and mercy of God to them in their forty years' sojourn in the wilderness. Third, Leviticus: I am Leviticus, the Book which contains the laws relating to Holiness. The name Leviticus refers to the priestly tribe of the Hebrews or the tribe of Levi. I explain the Sin Offering, the Peace Offering, and all. The various offerings to be kept by Israel. I sound the warning "Ye shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my Sanctuary," sayeth the Lord. And if ye keep my commandments I will give you rain in due season and the land shall yield her increase and the tregs of the field shall yield their ruit. Fourth, Numbers: I am the Book of Numbers. I carry on the narrative of the exodus to the end of the fortieth year. I recount the numbering of the children of Israel by their tribes. Even the twelve tribes of Israel as the Lord commanded Moses. The numbering which revealed the great increase and strength of them. A blessing from the God who preserved them in the days of their bondage; and brought them forth for a mighty purpose in fulfilment of a promise made to their father Abraham. Fifth, Deuteronomy: Iam Deuteronomy meaning 2nd law. I bear record of the events of the last month of the forty years' wandering of the Israelites. I also give a vivid account of the early colonial life of the Hebrews. The greater part of my book is an account of the discourse Moses delivered before his death, setting forth to the Israelites the laws they were to obey when they were settled in the "Promised Land." Sixth, Joshua: I am Joshua the son of Nun. The Joshua who took command of the exodus after the death of Moses. Under the direction of God I supervised the Israelitish conquest of Canaan. I led our armies around the vast wall of Jericho. I saw the mighty wall quake, shake and fall. In the name of Israel's God I commanded the sun to stand still and give us light and time to finish an important battle victoriously. My book ends with the closing events of my life. Seventh, Judges: Iam the book of the Judges in Israel who reigned during the lawless, disorganized period after the death of Joshua, until the Lord their God gave them a King to rule over them. The Lord expected us to direct them in their warrings against their enemies but they seldom hearkened. They remembered not the great things the Lord their God did for their Fathers. Judges were thirteen in number only four of whom were great men whose courage was the kind men never forget. Eighth, Ruth: I am Ruth of Moab. The daughter-in-law of Naomi, _the Israelite. I entreated her not to leave me nor to cause me to return from following after her. I said, "Whither-so-ever thou goest, there will I go. Where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people and thy God my God." My story is written to show more tolerance to foreigners than was shown by Ezra who strove to have all Jewery give up their foreign wives. The great 622 Eleventh, Chronicles: king David came through my lineage, even I a gentile woman. Ninth, Samuel: I represent the books of Ist and 2nd Samuel. My story begins with the birth of Samuel, the promised son of Hannah and Elkanah. I tell you of their devout life; of their sacrifice in giving their only child to the care and keeping of Eli, the officiating priest in-the temple. I, Samuel, grew up in the Temple and learned very early as a child to obey the will of God. I sought all my days to walk uprightly before him. I lived to see the Israelites turn away from the government of the judges and prophets and demand a king. It was I, even I who anointed their first king to rule over them. Even Saul. I tell you of the illustrious David, their second king and the man who served God all his days with one exception. I form the connecting link between the Theocracy and the Monarchy. Tenth, Kings: I represent the books of Ist and 2nd Kings. I tell you of the reign of Solomon, son of David, Solomon, the wisest and richest king in Israel. I give you a history of the divisions of the kingdom, after the death of Solomon, into the kingdoms of Judah and Israel. I tell you of their waywardness and _ disobedience and finally the destruction of Jerusalem and their capture by the Babylonians. I represent the books of Ist and 2nd Chronicles. I treat the same period of Israelitish history as do the two books of the Kings. But unlike them I deal with the priestly ecclesiastical life of the people. I give their genealogies, statistical registers, description of their reFourteenth, Esther: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ligious ceremonies and organizations of their public worship. Twelfth, Ezra: | am Ezra the priest and ready scribe in the law of Moses. The God of heaven sent me out from captivity by the good will and decree of the Persian King to return and aid in the rebuilding of the wall of Jerusalem; I begin my narrative of Jewish history where Chronicles leave off, carrying it forth until the time of the theocratic institution. Thirteenth, Nehemiah: I am Nehemiah, son of Hachaliah. By permission of the Persian King I also returned from captivity to direct the rebuilding of a portion of | the broken wall of Jerusalem our beloved city. Like Ezra I take up the narrative of Jewish history and continue until the theocratic institution of the times which was instituted by the combined efforts of Ezra and myself. I am Esther, the orphaned and despised Jewess, who lived in captivity with my uncle in the Persian capital. My story tells how I became queen and how by fasting and prayer I found favor in the eyes of the Lord and also my husband the king and saved my people the Jews from destruction. I instituted the Jewish feast Purim in commemoration of our victory that day. Fifteenth, Job: I am Job who had patience and faith despite my boils. In a dramatic poem I try to fathom the cause of human sufferings. Behind the simple story of my suffering lies some of the most beautiful and profoundest lessons given in the Bible. For "T know that my Redeemer liveth and even though the skin worms destroy my body yet in my flesh shall I see God." My book also contains some of the profoundest OUR PROPHET "BACK TO THE SCRIPTURES" 623 world music ever chanted. But the melody, the tune of it has rarely been heard in its greatness and compass, because men generally have brought to it too small a soul. (Chanting is heard off stage, as soon erable keen insight into the problems of human life. Mine is the gratification of individul desire in every conceivable form only to learn all is vanity. Nothing endureth. There is no steadfastness. But in old age he finds at last that as Job finishes speaking. Chanting: I know that my Redeemer liveth, etc.) Sixteenth, Psalms: Psalms is my name. I am a collection of Hebrew songs and poetry of praise to Ged. From the standpoint of literature I mark the high points in the Old Testament. For witness: "The Heavens declare the glory of God. The firmament showeth His handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night showeth knowledge. There is no speech nor language where which gives satisfaction, the one safeguard against a lifetime of fruitless searching and disappointment." Remember, now thy Creator in the days of thy youth while the evil day come not, nor the years draw nigh when thou shall say I have no pleasure in them." Nineteenth, Song of Solomon: I am the Song of Solomon. A poem of love. The Song of Songs of the Bible. A lyric drama with a pastoral background. Tradition (Read, if desired, Psalms 23:24, 31, My theme is the triumph of virtu- 37.).° ous love over all the riches that a Proverbs. I give you the wisdom Twentieth, Isaiah: I am Isaiah, the literature of the Hebrews. My teachings have a practical aim. Not only do they contain maxims of conduct, they are also moral advisors as wisdom is the principal thing. "Therefore get wisdom and with all thy getting, get understanding. Hatred stirreth up strife but love covereth all sins. Go to the ant thou sluggard, consider her ways and be wise. Who so stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor he also shall cry himself and shall not be heard. Happy is the man that findeth wisdom and the-man that getteth understanding. For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver and the gain thereof than fine gold. Be not a witness against thy neighbor without a cause; and deceive not with thy lips." Eighteenth, Ecclesiastes: Y am Ecclesiastes. I too give you Hebrew wisdom, literature with a considstatesman prophet of the Lord. Often I am called the prince of prophets. My book is perhaps the greatest prophetic book in the Old Testament. Its spirituality, love of justice and conception of God are high points in Hebrew literature. Its leading subjects are: majesty of man, sinfulness of man, divine judgment, salvation for a remnant, and refuge in God alone. I sound the whole gamut of human emotions. Blessed of my God with intellect, abundant energy, and splendid faith, I have achieved a place among the great writers of the earth. Twenty-first, Jeremiah: Iam Jeremiah, the gloomy prophet. I received this distinguishing title because of the bitter invectives I hurl against the narrow religious bigotry of my day. And because of my predictions of national disaster at the hands of the Babylonians. I have been classed with 'their voice is not heard." Seventeenth, Proverbs: My name is says that King Solomon wrote me. Great king can offer. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Isaiah for my universal conception of God and for the stress I place upon individuality in religious living. My unswerving devotion to the will of God, my dauntless courage in rebuking evil, and my supreme faith in God's plan for Israel reveal my character. Twenty-second, Lamentations: I am Lamentations. Upon my pages are written five poems, all dealing with a common theme; even the calamities that befell the people of Judah and their beloved Jerusalem by the Chaldeans. Twenty-third, Ezekiel: 1 am Ezekiel the prophet and a captive in Babylonia. I give to you my religious and prophetic thoughts. My conviction is that further judgments are eminent for the Jews in the future. My growing anxiety is to win the souls of individuals who might form the nucleus of a purified Israel in the future. My book covers twenty-two years of prophetic ministry, and there is no better example to be found of the human side of the Scripture than it contains. Twenty-fourth, Daniel: I am Daniel. I give you the story of the faithfulness of Daniel and his three comrades, all Hebrews, while in captivity. We kept the commandments contained in the Scriptures as taught by our parents, and the Lord never forsook us. He gave us wisdom and _ strength, faith and courage to triumph over the trials and tests of the hard life of a captive. The lions did not devour me when I was thrown into their den; the fire did not burn my three companions, for we had obeyed the will of God. I saw in vision centuries before it happened the stone cut without hands out of the mountains that was to roll and break in pieces the ten Twenty-fifth, Hosea: Twenty-sixth, Joel: kingdoms and fill the whole earth. God gave me dreams and visions; and the interpretation of troublesome dreams of kings. I am Hosea, the prophet of pity who saw the heart of God waiting to forgive his prodigal peoples. I am from the northern kingdom of Israel. The aim of my prophecy is to show the forgiving love of God to erring Israel. There will be punishment but there will also be a bright future, if Israel will repent. As I forgave my wife her sin against me, surely God will be equally compassionate to Israel. IT am Joel. I give you a book of judgments. I persistently and eloquently urged repentance before the coming of the terrible day of Jehovah. The people gave ear and they received "blessings many and rich both spiritual and material. But above all there will come a great outpouring of the spirit of prophecy. And the terrors which are to come will not affect the Jews. Twenty-seventh, Amos: T am Amos the prophet of justice. Into the midst of a corrupt civilization I came as a preacher of righteousness: a solitary man armed only with the truth entering a great city with the purnose of converting a nation. I declare the stern, unflinching justice of God. Perhans I am bitter against the luxurv and religious pride of the northern kingdom of Israel, but T warn them fullv of the calamities which God is going to rain down upon all nations who do not live justly. None can escape. God is not mocked; neither is he anneased by feasts and offerings. Prenare to meet thy God, oh House of Israel. Twenty-eighth, Obediah: I am Thirtieth, Micah: OUR PROPHET "BACK TO THE SCRIPTURES" 625 Obediah. I could not forebear adding my voice of warning to those of the other prophets. Although my warning is short it is forceful. It foretells entirely the ruin which is about to fall upon the tribe of Edom (Esau) that live just south of the dead sea. Twenty-ninth, Jonah: I am Jonah. I try like Ruth to show God's love for all his children, Jew and nonJew alike. As an exposition of God's love for all people I challenge any and all of the other writers of the Old Testament to surpass it. In true repentance out of the depths of hell cried I unto the Lord. Even out of the belly of the whale, and he heard my cry. Because I had accepted fully the fact that God is the God of all nations. I am Micah, a younger contemporary who sympathizes with the peasantry in their sufferings. I attack not perhaps with greater boldness but -with greater directness and in more scathing terms the wrongs to which they have been exposed at the hands of the rich rulers of Judah. While Isaiah is concerned with the political side of it, I, Micah, am concerned' with the ethical and religious side of it. Thirty-first, Nahum: I am Nahum. I give you just three short chapters. The theme of which is the fall of Nineveh, the capitol of the Assyrians. In extremely forceful language I paint vividly terrible pictures, as I gloat over the downfall of this powerful city because of the past cruelty and harshness it has imposed upon my people. Thirty-second, Habakkuk: I am the prophet Habakkuk, who in a dialogue with Jehovah inquires about the violence and injustice that prevails on every hand. Jehovah anThirty-third, Zephaniah: 'Thirty-fourth, Haggai: swers me that the Chaldeans are to be instruments of punishment for the prevailing evils but in the end their pride will be their downfall. Like Nahum I occupy but a small space and belong to the group known to Bible scholars as the 'Minor Prophets." I am Zephaniah. The spirit wrought strong, and I could not withstand it. I predict the approach of the great and terrible day of Jehovah, and of the condemnations that is to be heaped upon the Jews who have adopted foreign ways of living and who are corrupted with ways of intrigue, and those who are religiously indifferent. But out of the coming trials a preferred remnant will be loyal to God and dwell in safety in their - own land. I am the prophet Haggai. My strength and time I spent trying to enthuse the Jews who have returned from exile to rebuild the temple at Jerusalem to Jehovah. Drought and crop failure will combine until the Jews rally to this important duty. As long as the temple remains unbuilt the Jews will remain an unclean people. I succeed in giving my people a new hope; the promise of a new and glorious age. Thirty-fifth, Zechariah: IT am Zechariah the. Prophet who joins with Haggai in seeking to induce the Jews to finish the rebuilding of the temple. To begin with I send out an earnest call to repentance. Then in the eight symbolic visions that follow, I give encouragement to the people, especially to Zerubbabel and to Joshua, the civil and religious heads of the community, in the work of rebuilding the temple. The significant features of 626 each of these visions were pointed out to me by an angel. Thirty-sixth, Malachi: 1 am Malachi, a prophet and sage, who exhorts and rebukes. I rebuke the prophets for being neglectful of their duties. I rebuke the Jews for contracting foreign marriages, also those who question the divine government of the world, and those who have been neglectful in the payment of their tithes. I announce the day of judgment when Jehovah will appear to purify the unworthy priests and punish his guilty people. Then again I lift my voice to exhort the people to obey the Mosaic law, and promise the advent of Elijah 'the prophet. Reader: The life of the prophets is not a flowery one. They spent a lifetime of struggle to establish truths and right among the heedless children of men. The march of the Prophets. Genesis leads, all follow him down from the terraced platform but break into several short lines and march in a criss-cross fashion holding unlighted candles and marching in a posture as with drawn swords to indicate struggle. They form into a double line and march with bowed heads and clasped hands to denote sorrow still holding unlighted candles. As they change from "sorrow" they, unobserved if possible, light candles and form into single line and change from the slow sorrowful tread to a lively triumphal step, bodies and heads erect and candles held high. A grand triumphal march finishes. The music for this march should depict first struggle, then sorrow and finally triumph. The lights also must agree to give desired effect. The prophets march off stage triumphantly and chant. The mother returns, tired and worried, to find children asleep. She gazes on them with pride and decides to warm up and rest by the fire before wakening them for bed. She draws a chair before the fire and sits down. As she relaxes and becomes warm, she too falls asleep. Chanting is heard off stage. Chanting: Back to Scriptures, etc. Before chanting ceases, Books of Old Testament begin returning to stage. They come in and form in three groups facing the mother. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE After they march they chant: How beauteous are their feet who stand on Zion's Hill, Who bring salvation on their tongues and words of peace reveal; How blessed are our ears that hear the joyful sound Which kings and prophets waited for and sought but never found; How blessed are our eyes that see the Heavenly light So long desired by ancient seers who died without the sight. The watchmen join their voices and tuneful notes employ, Jerusalem breaks forth in song and deserts learn the joy. Books in Unison: Weare the scriptures. We come to you down the ages of time out of the past, heavily laden with messages of light and truth and a knowledge of your Creator even the Creator of Heaven and Earth. We mark the path by which you may return to Him. "Search the scriptures for in them ye think ye have eternal life and they are they which testify of Me." "Seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be opened unto you." We commend you and congratulate you, O little mother of the children of men, for your faith and integrity in your effort to teach your children "God and Truth" through the Scriptures. Blessed be thy efforts, "Back to the Scriptures." Isaiah steps forward and places a crown on the sleeping mother's head, bearing the words, "Integrity and Faith." He returns to place and the books repeat: The Hebrews wrote their national history in Historical books, in books of prophecy, in books of Song and devotion and in books _of wisdom, religion and_ philosophy. Ist (Scien Books of History (Genesis to Esther inclusive) hoist a banner above their group bearing the name of the group, and say in unison:. OUR PROPHET "BACK TO THE SCRIPTURES" The idea of one God unseen and not to be worshipped in visible form had been taught in the beginning, and taken a firm hold on human minds. This is the outstanding achievement of the Hebrews, the thing which gives the Old Testament eternal truth and inspiration. In its total effect the Old Testament is a record of God's progressive revelation of himself to man. Steadily from Genesis to Micah the conception of God's nature grows clearer, and finer. 2nd group: Poetry Books (from Job to Song of Solomon) also raise banner bearing their name and say: The Bible is not alone a book but a divine library; the product not of one mind and one age but of many minds and many ages. It is the literary record of the Hebrews and gives to the world eternal truth expressed in unforgettable beauty. Clear thought, simple words, genuine emotion, these are the gold of literature. Peace be unto you and your household. May faith and love and charity abound and good works endure forever. We welcome you "Back to the Scriptures." 3rd group. Books of Prophecy. (Isaiah to Malachi.) Carry Banner with their group name on. Books: Greece honored poets, philosophers, sculptors, orators. Rome honored emperors, military leaders and poets but Israel revered most her prophets, mouthpieces of God, they explained and justified 627 God to His people. The Old Testament ends with a people. Who have learned humility through suffering and righteousness through adversity and with prophets who utter the will of God in more and more exalted language. As Micah who reached the grandest elevation says. ""He hath shown thee O man what is good and what doth the Lord require of thee but to walk justly and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God." "T am God (sayeth the Lord) and there is none else. Be ye holy for I am holy. Behold I set before you life and death. Therefore choose life." Hail to thy faith in "Back to the Scriptures." A bright light appears and in it a personage representing Christ standing a little above and in front of the Books. The Books turn shading their eyes and look to see from whence comes the light and personage. In reverence and awe they bow their heads and drop to one knee. They extend lighted candles reverently. Christ with a pleased countenance says, "I am the Life and the Way." (Suitable colored lights all through the pageant add beauty and color to it.) In the groups the candles are held together symbolic of increased strength in union. _ Curtain soon after Christ ceases speaking and with colored light representing night. Family are still sleeping. "Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be lifted up ye everlasting doors. "And the King of Glory shall come in. "Who is this King of Glory? "The Lord of Hosts, he is the King of Glory."