A Little Hero By Grace Jacobsen
THE history of the Utah pioneers is replete with deeds of heroism and courage of the men and women who subdued the desert and laid the foundation of this wonderful commonwealth. Not so much has been said about the children whose sublime fortitude and patient suffering calls forth our profoundest admiration. For true courage in the face of the greatest danger the following incident has few equals.
In the year 1856 a man named Lee, his wife, five children, a hired man and a hired girl lived on a ranch four miles southeast of Beaver where Indians were plentiful, as well as untrustworthy. A band of about twenty Utes who were supposed to be friendly decided it was the proper time to gather their stolen cattle and drive them from the lower valley to the higher pastures and plateaus. The Lee ranch lay directly in their path forming an obstacle which they felt must be removed, by destroying the Lee family.
One night in late October they surrounded the ranch and kept up a hideous imitation of hungry wolves in order to mislead the innocent victims of their murderous intent. Strange how impending danger often sends a silent message on before; so it was the sleeping household were restless and fearful. Especially the children who cried out and called for mother. Even the old watch dog trotted around the house listening?watching the whole night.
Just before dawn his loud barking brought Mr. Lee and the hired man to the door yard in a hurry only to meet these savage foes who opened fire. The hired man fell immediately with a bullet in his breast. Mr. Lee dragged him into the house and called the terrified family to bar the door and windows, load the old shotgun and fight for their lives. Mrs. Lee was kept busy administering to the dying man and loading the gun. Several braves fell dead as a result of Mr. Lee's true aim. The enraged savages seized pick, hoe, or any available implement climbed up to the roof of the house and began ripping off the boards, setting fire to the outer edge. The weather was damp and ignition took place slowly but great clouds of smoke filled the house nearly choking the captives and sending the baby in the cradle into convulsions. The father tried to tear away the burning boards overhead with a crow-bar the hired girl had managed to bring in at the risk of her life but the flames only spread the faster. To venture out for water meant certain death for Mr. Lee. He must not go, he was their only protector, his going meant annihilation for the whole family. The eleven year old girl offered to bring the water but was not permitted to do so.
It seemed their hour had come; something must be done, and done quickly. Then that little hero, their nine year old son stepped to his mother's side and in childish eloquence begged to be allowed to run for help. This request sent a chill to the mother's heart. "No, no, my son, I cannot let you go. I will never see you again." "Mother," he replied, "I would rather be shot in the open than die like a rat in a trap. It is the one chance for my life and yours."
Tearfully she consented. The door was opened enough for him to crawl through. The hired girl decided to go too but took the open road and was later rescued, but the boy took the short cut as he had promised his mother he would. Out through bushes and brambles, over rock and sharp stones his little bare feet flew as fast as his strength would permit. A second Paul Revere sounding the alarm for the defence of those he loved. At length he reached the outer fields of Beaver where some men were at work. His clothes torn and stained with blood, his feet bleeding, his body all aquiver, he had barely strength enough to whisper, "Indians," but that was enough. They understood. Within twenty minutes fifteen or twenty men were in their saddles galloping to the rescue. The Indians were routed and the family saved. The little hero was not forgotten, in due time he was returned to the loving arms of his parents.
Just a bare foot boy in tatters Just a thought of home and love, But the deed he did for others Is recorded up above.