New Patterns in Sex Teaching By Frances Bruce Strain (A Book Review) By Virginia Budd Jacobsen ARENTS of today are faced with the serious problem of training children in the matters of sex. Whether we like it or not, the problem is ours, and we must face it. If we do not instruct them in these matters very early, they are sure to get the facts from their playmates or older children in an unwholesome manner. Even at the age of four, five and six, questions related to sex come into the minds of these youngsters of ours and it is our task and privilege to answer them honestly and frankly. We must be ready to answer their first questions when they arise. But we are handicapped, generally, with a lack of scientific knowledge, presence of mind, and courage to answer truthfully and honestly as we should. To aid in answering these questions, "every family should have one strong-backed book on the subject of sex training of children—not a leaflet, not a pamphlet, but a dignified volume that can be a lantern in the hand to every intelligent and progressive parent. It should be a part of the family child-guidance bookshelf." Such a book is New Patterns in Sex Training by Frances Bruce Strain. Mrs. Strain, besides being a splendid mother, is widely known as an educator, lecturer, and author. She is a graduate of the University of Towa, later she became Acting Psychologist of the Children's Clinic of the Colorado Psychopathic Hospital at Denver. From this position she went to the University of Minnesota, where she carried on a long research on the problems and methods of sex training and education. At present, Mrs. Strain is Associate Educational Director of the Cincinnati Social Hygiene Society, lecturing yearly on sex education to thousands of parents and acting as consultant on individual problems. "New Patterns in Sex Teaching is offered as a practical guide over the somewhat unfamiliar and often hilly country of sex life of children from infancy to adolescence. Its purpose is to take away that feeling of insecurity which most parents suffer in the face of hazards of neighborhood play, questionable companions, street talk, sex activities, occasional immoralities—experiences which sooner or later, directly or indirectly, come into the horizon of most children. It includes ways of meeting these situations, ways of interpreting them, ways of supplanting them, in order that undesirable results may be lessened and parental peace of mind be restored. "It includes answers to hundreds of the most usual questions in relation to pregnancy, birth, fertilization, mating, which children ask in the early years..... The answers are adaptable to the varying ages of children and usable by adults who have little familiarity with biological facts and terms." How many of us know how to meet these situations? More than that, how many of us know how to meet them in such a way that no injury shall be done to the child nature? 632 "Modern methods of child guidance and mental hygiene point out the difference between a bad habit corrected! And a habit corrected badly.... Punishment can leave an injury that is greater than the thing which caused the punishment.... More than any other part of our natures, our sex natures have been injured—often irreparably injured— by wrong methods of training. Nobody was to blame. Until recently, nobody knew there was such a nature in childhood to save from injury. That is one of the things we have come to know. "Most mothers of today have accepted sex education whole-heartedly because back in their minds is the memory of many futile gropings for a few simple facts that were withheld from them." Mrs. Strain has treated almost every phase of the sex problem as it is related to youth, in this delightful book. She has written it in response to a pressing and repeated. Demand from parents for a permanent guide in handling this very important problem. Perhaps a brief outline of the chapter headings will best answer the question "Just what is in the book?" I. Introduction. II. The Love Impulse. III. Making the Right Start. IV. Learning Social Standards. V. Playground Problems. VI. First Questions of Young Children.:. A Few Rules of the Game. VIII. The Questionless Child. IX. The Rough and Tumble Age. X. Preparation for Maturity. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE There are four pages of questions which children ask concerning the sex problem, with the page given whereon the proper answer is given. For example: Where do babies come from?— Page 95. Where did you get me, Mother >— Page 94, How big is a baby when its starts to grow?—Page 153. How does the baby get out?— Page 98. How can the opening be made big enough?—Page 99. Why must there always be a father?—Page 152. What is menstruation?—Page 192. Why are girls different from boys?'—Page 157. These few questions give a fair idea of the breadth of the book. It is truly a valuable handbook. It is frank. It is sincere. It is honest in dealing with the most difficult phase of life to teach to children. The answers to the questions are simple and direct, and given in such a manner as to eliminate any embarrassment for parent or child. "This book is not a scientific treatise. We are not attempting to decide fine or final points or sexual psychology. Yet it is far from being an arm-chair volume. Rather, it is a human record, written from the experience of years of association with the mothers of young children." Quotations from the book by permission from the publishers, D. Appleton-Century Company.