The Gift of the Storm (A True Story) By Ellen G. Rees ANNAH stood in the doorway watching him. He was driving away, leaving her alone! How did he dare go now? How could she bear it? She raised her eyes to Heaven beseechingly, "Oh, God," she prayed, "help me, I am so afraid. Give me courage!" This was in early days in Arizona, and the frail, girlish woman was watching from the doorway of a small, lonely, ranch-house. Her eyes looked unseeingly over the desert. There was so little to see and less to hear—some corrals and ill-shaped fences made of cedar post and barbed wire, straggling bits of grease wood, then endless miles until the sky and land seemed to meet. Not a sound but the rising Fall wind, that most lonely of winds, not even falling leaves to rustle because there wasn't even a tree there. Sinking to the step in a heap she thought of seven years ago when she had married Harvey and come to live here where her ranch life began. She wasn't quite sixteen then. She hadn't guessed how serious and different everything would be. Her babies had come so fast, one, two, three, one right after the other. One of them, honest-faced little John, she had lost with croup so suddenly that she wasn't over the shock of it yet. Then in July, during that severe hot spell, four-year-old Carl, had those constant grinding pains in his stomach which, try as she would, she could not relieve. The muddy drinking water from the river, the only water available, must have caused it. She had heard of the danger of impure water so she had boiled it and then let it stand until it settled clear before using, but it was warm and had a flat taste which did not satisfy his fever-parched lips that begged and begged for just one cool drink. He became so sick that they thought best to take him to the nearest doctor, that being quicker than to send for the doctor. They reached the place only to find him miles away on another call. But here was a spring and crystal, cool water. They handed him a drink just as the substitute doctor saw and ordered, "Oh, don't give him that! Cold water will kill him." All his strength went with this disappointment. He turned his face to the wall and the end soon came. This ever haunted her,—his intense suffering, his pleadings, and the memory that she could not grant his one and only plea. Since these experiences with death such a helpless feeling possessed her, making her afraid, and birth being so akin to death, she was appalled at the future, because she was about to have another baby. As the time drew nearer, her terror increased. How could she go through this ordeal with only her husband and the nearest woman, as she had done three times before. She would try to forget her dumb terror if she could have a doctor, but this seemed impossible. In the first place, her, husband would think her unduly anxious, and that it was not necessary, and then the money to pay him,. Where would they get that? Their small crop had failed be- THE GIFT OF THE STORM cause the dam holding the water necessary for irrigation had been washed away. Rains had been even less than the usual scanty amount, so the cattle were thin. Many had gone 'loco' and being poor, soon died. The cattle were their livelihood, so when there were but few left to sell and weighing light, they had brought a low price. If only she had some money to use just as she wished, how glad she would be, but that was hopeless. She never had and she never would _ ask for money, she was too proud. Her husband was proud too; he would hesitate to send for the physician unless there were cash on hand to pay him. ARVEY had been left fatherless in early boyhood and so had been forced into harsh and premature manhood. Play and gentleness had been missing in his youth, so he grew into a cold, hard, undemonstrative man, old beyond his years. To be a 'real' cowboy, as he was, one had to lose all sense of fear, and he had learned this lesson well. He wasn't afraid of anything. Loneliness too, must be conquered, so he could not sense the ever growing loneliness that gnawed and almost overwhelmed her. This desert life, too, made people hard. It was so common to see pain and suffering, to see men, beasts and plants seeking out a bare existence. To see one and all give up their heart's desires and endure any sacrifice without a murmur was a daily sight. So Hannah had hidden her dread and fear of the future from her husband, but now he was gone and she had not even his help, she was more frightened than ever. Hopelessly huddled there on the doorstep heeding not, nor sensing the 635 passing of time, she was roused by her only child who came running and calling, '"Mother, see those tumble weeds, they go rolling and rolling; they look like wheels, and the wind blowed all my stick horses down, and I lost my hat too." "Yes, dear,' she said as she looked around, "the cattle are starting out earlier than usual. There must be a storm coming; we'd better get busy. Can you get the buckets? We will get a 'turn' of water first." On their way to the river she watched the cattle which had been down earlier to drink and take their noon-day rest. They were up now and walking determinedly away toward the cedars. "Strange how they can always tell when there is a storm coming," she mused aloud. "They may go too far and then Daddy will have to go after them when he gets back," she told the boy. This was his work, keeping these wild, un-penned cattle from roaming to nearby herds; branding and ear-marking them, constantly moving them to new grass and water as the old dried out; shipping and selling steers in the fall; 'pulling the log' when they stuck in the quicksand (which was constantly) "breaking-in' the 'broncos' or wild horses for their work; this with occasional trips to town for supplies left him little time and thought for anything else. But he had been worrying lately. Taxes would soon be due, and he needed the money. That morning he very suddenly told her of his selfmade plans. "I'm going to town today," he said. "It's court week, county court, and lots of men will be in town. The one hotel there won't hold them all. Ln mother's large house, and with her help, we can fix beds and cook for them and make some cash for taxes. The cattle will be all right for a few days, 636 and I may send a man down to look after them." She was so surprised and shocked that no words came. Of course she wanted him to go and get money, but how could she stay alone? What if something should happen and she alone there? If she could then have spoken her fears, all might have been different, but something held her dumb, and so he had driven away, little dreaming of her terror. As the mother filled the buckets she said, "Yes, the river is rising,. They have had rain above here." Oh, that river! A raging, seething, foaming, torrent today, a tiny, silver thread tomorrow, twisting and winding along in its bed of sand, bringing life and hope or death and destruction as it wended its way onward. The Little Colorado River, an oasis in the desert, a refuge for the lonely, weary traveler, a mecca for man and beast! Treacherous because bedded in many places with quicksand, tired, thirsty man and beast sought to quench his thirst only to be caught in that same quicksand and sucked down until helpless, starved, and exhausted, life slowly ebbed away. Yet how important that river, because it was the only source of water for miles and miles. Dams and small reservoirs built along its course were washed out repeatedly by its rampageous floods bringing drought, loss of crops, wreckage of tiny farms and settlements huddled timidly on its all but sterile banks. Most settlers had not gone there of their own accord; they had been called there. After the water, she carried in wood, fed chickens, changed some calves to a different pasture, watered horses, milked the two cows and fed calves. By this time the rain was pouring down. Then inside as she cared for the boy, she listened as it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE steadily increased. It seemed the very Heavens were opened. By bed-time it had grown until it terrified her. Thoughts of a flood now cate vividly. She had seen some and knew how they swept away everything in their path. It didn't seem safe to stay there, yet she thought with terror of getting a horse, preparing the sleeping child and trying to ride to higher ground. But she must—as she hastily gathered food and coats, the kerosene lamp flickered and sputtered and seemed about to go out and leave her in total darkness. She clenched her hands in utter fear and despair. What should she do? HEN some sound _ distinct through the storm halted her. Were her senses betraying her? Certainly she could hear wheels and horses splashing above the roar of it all. Someone was coming, who could it be, had her husband come back to help her? The sounds drew nearer and stopped. She opened the door just in time to hear a strange voice shout, "Hello, hello, say can you put us up for the night?" She dimly perceived two '"buckboards' filled with men be-spatted, be-draggled, dripping with mud and water. "Say, where's the man of the house? There's a bridge washed out back there, so we couldn't get through that way, and we had to come on this road. The mud's been awful and now our teams are 'giveout.' The storm's about over, but we want to get in and get dried out. Can we stay here tonight?' There was one thing Arizona was rich in, and that was hospitality. "My husband is away but you are welcome to stay," she told them bewildered and wondering how that crowd could be made comfortable THE GIFT OF THE STORM in her small home, but they gladly filed in. OON after, the rain and wind began to quiet down—the storm had spent itself. Meanwhile, the drivers had cared for their horses and a big ruddy-faced man further explained, 'Missus, we are lawyers, a judge and jurymen from Prescott going up here to the county-seat to hold court. Now if we can just light up a fire in this fireplace we'll be mighty happy to get dry." The room did afford a fine fireplace. It was cheaper to build one than to buy a stove, and logs were easier to cut for it. Wood was piled high and soon a*blazing fire lighted the tanned, strong faces gathered in the firelight. Their dripping Stetsons were hung on nails, wet coats were draped on the backs of chairs and the room soon filled with steam from their wet clothes. Their care-free laughter and joking remarks made her forget her fears and filled her heart with something like comfort. She didn't ask if they were hungry, but went into the kitchen thankful for the loaves of fresh bread she had baked that day, for freshchurned butter and pans of milk with thick, tempting cream. From another shelf she brought some of her precious fruit. "How fine that beef-steak Harvey left will be for those hungry men," she half whispered. As the grease began to spatter, 637 she heard near by a man's voice, "Say, lady, let me help you, I'm used to riding the 'chuck wagon'." With his help the meal was soon ready. As the men ate, their leader voiced appreciation, "I'll say this is fit for a king, we were almost starved!" Their hunger satisfied and comfortably warm, their coats rolled up for pillows, they soon sprawled over the one bed and the warm floor sound asleep, and Hannah, in the kitchen on a cot, had forgotten the storm, and all her fears, and she slept also. GHUF FLING of spurs and kicking on of boots awakened her at the first signs of dawn. The storm was over, the sky clear. The men would be half-way to town by sunup, no need to ask them to stay for breakfast; they would want to be up and away now. She dressed and came into the room just in time to see them ready to leave, and wishing to show their appreciation, they reached into their pockets and with lavish, reckless generosity showered down on the table money—dollars, more dollars, and even five-dollar gold pieces. She stood in amazement, then with jolly thanks, a handshake or two, they trouped out. She hadn't thought of their money—but here it was, hers now, all hers! Her hands closed over it eagerly. She bowed her head in thankfulness and peace. Now money for the doctor was sure!