Rachel Ridgway Ivins Grant APRIL 1943 Mary Grant Judd Member of Relief Society General Board NE who knew her well once () said of Rachel Ridgway Ivins Grant: "In her presence one seems to feel the meaning of the word highbred in its truest sense. The fact seems perfectly clear that she came of a people that were refined and -cultured." Her Ivins progenitors, of English descent, came to the new world in 1690, and were among the earliest settlers of Long Island. It was in 1760 that they settled in New Jersey where they, as well as the Shreves from whom she was also descended, figured conspicuously in the history of New Jersey. It was in Hornerstown, New Jersey, that Rachel was born March, 1821. She was the sixth child and third daughter in the family of Caleb Ivins, Jr. (whose grandmother was a Shreve), and Edith Ridgway. Her grandfather, Caleb Ivins, had lived in Hornerstown all his life. History states: "He was loved by all who knew him, many having christened' him 'the good Samaritan.' He owned a substantial brick and frame house and had a nice farm with a beautiful orchard in which chestnut, hickory, and walnut trees grew. He also owned a. Store, gob and sawmill." Rachel's father was a merchant. He died when she was but six years old; the lovely spirited mother following him in three short years. The children now became separated. Rachel living first with her grandfather on her mother's side (a kindly old gentleman who allowed her to do about as she pleased), and later with her cousin Joshua Wright and his wife, 'Theodosia. Theodosia, Joshua's wife, prided herself upon her immaculate housekeeping. No speck of dust was ever allowed to enter the sacred precincts of her home. The training received by the young girl unaccustomed to such rigidity must have been severe. "Come back," the grandfather invited; and the children said, "Such work belongs to the servants." But to them all Rachel answered, "No." Young as she was, she realized that Page 227 228 the training she was receiving was for her good. She was naturally orderly, and now scrupulous cleanliness became second nature to her. At Theodosia's, Rachel's regular routine consisted of the bedroom work, and caring for the silver and glassware. These latter were never allowed to leave the dining room. To have taken these aristocrats of the table into the kitchen would have been a sacrilege. Rachel really enjoyed life at the home of her cousin Joshua, and though there were no other children there, she was not lonesome. Her naturally buoyant and happy disposition, which characterized her whole life no matter what her difficulties, stood her in good stead at this time. After the day's work was over she would go to a little grove of - trees nearby and there sit and sew for her dolls, singing contentedly all the while. It is easy to imagine her thus if one knew her in after life, for she always made the best of any situation. OME of Rachel's early history, including the incidents which led to her joining the Church and her fervent testimony of the gospel, have come down to us in her own words: My grandparents on both sides were Quakers, consequently I was brought up under that influence. But the silent worship of the Friends did not satisfy the cravings of my soul. I longed to hear the beautiful hymns that my mother taught to her little children even in: our tender years, and the spirit often moved me to burst out in songs of praise, and it was with difficulty that I could refrain from doing so. At the age of sixteen years with the consent of my relatives, I joined the Baptist Church. The singing pleased me and the prayers were somewhat inspiring, but the sermons were not much more satisfactory than the none-at-all of the Quakers. I was religiously inclined but not of the longfaced variety. I thought religion ought to make people 'happier and that was the kind of religion I was looking for. About this time we heard of some strange preachers called "Mormons" who had come to our neighborhood. I concluded they were some of the false prophets that the Bible speaks of and I had no desire to see or hear them. Her older sister Anna (mother of Anthony W. Ivins), had become converted to the new faith and persuaded Rachel, almost against her will, to go and hear them speak. I went to the meeting on Saturday but when she asked me to go on Sunday I did not know whether I ought to break the Sabbath day by going to hear them or not. But I finally went. Upon returning home I went to my room, knelt down and asked the Lord to forgive me for thus breaking the Sabbath day. I attended some more meetings and commenced reading the "Book of Mormon," "Voice of Warning" 'and other works, and was soon convinced that they were true. A new light seemed to break upon me. The scriptures were plainer to my mind, and the light of the everlasting gospel began to illumine my soul. While thus investigating, a little child died whose mother had joined the Latter-day Saints. The Baptist minister took occasion to refer to the death of the little one, regretting that its parents had neglected to have it baptized, and that thereby it was lost and could not have. Salvation. I afterwards heard Elder Orson Hyde preach the funeral sermon. He portrayed the glories of our Father's kingdom and the saved condition of the little innocent ones who died before they came to years of accountability''For of such is the Kingdom of Heaven." The contrast was very great, showing one to be false and the other true. I was steadily being drawn to the gospel net. One day while attending the Baptist prayer meeting our pastor admonished me for the course I was taking and said if I RACHEL RIDGWAY IVINS GRANT did not stop going to the Mormon meetings I could not hold my seat in the Baptist Church, and they would be obliged to disfellowship me for listening to false doctrines. This seemed to settle the question with me. One wanted to hold me against my convictions, and the other was free salvation, without money and without price. I soon handed in my name for baptism and rendered willing obedience to the first four requirements of the gospel of Jesus Christ as revealed through the Prophet Joseph in the last dispensation of the fulress of times. And oh, what joy filled my being! I could sing all the day long and rejoice in the glorious promises of the gospel. [' was at this time that Rachel met the Prophet Joseph Smith for the first time, as well as Jedediah M. Grant, her future husband. The "spirit of gathering" took possession of her, and in 1842 she went with her cousins, the Ivins, to Nauvoo. In this beautiful city Rachel made many friends. One of them, Emmeline B. Wells, who afterward became the fifth general president of Relief Society, gives this description of Rachel at this time: The writer has a faint remembrance of Miss Ivins as she first saw her in Nauvoo. She was dressed in silk with a handsome lace collar, or fichu, and an elegant shawl over her shoulders, and a long white lace veil thrown back over her simple straw bonnet. She carried an elaborate feather fan and now in thinking of fans, I recall the fascination of that fan. One could easily discern the subdued Quaker pride in her method of using it, for Sister Rachel had the air, the tone, and mannerisms of the Quakers. Rachel herself would never admit that she had been good looking. "No, I was not a pretty girl," she told her granddaughters in later life. But they knew better. Such a handsome 229 old lady must have been a beautiful girl. It is probably true that she did not possess the doll-faced type of beauty. But in place of mere prettiness she had breeding, a fine carriage. She held her head high, not in false pride, but because she had been well-born and possessed a determined character. It is reported that when she became the wife of Jedediah M. Grant, one of the neighbors remarked, "Brother Grant has married a queen." When she went to Nauvoo in 1842, it was natural that she should mingle in the social life of the city. She became well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph and has lft us this interesting description of him: I was many times at the Prophet's home. We used to have parties there. But not so many times when I saw him. He was a fine noble looking man. Always so neat. When he was preaching you could feel the influence and power. He was not at home very much. There were so few that he could trust or put confidence in. His life was so often sought that he had to be hid up. After he had been in hiding and had come out he was always so jolly and happy. He was different in that respect from Brother Hyrum, who was more sedate, more serious. Rachel tells us that her first year in Nauvoo was a very happy one, but that the second was not so peaceful. "There were troublous times for the Saints, much persecution and _ turmoil."" The turmoil grew more and more pronounced until it culminated in the terrible tragedy of the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch, Joseph and Hyrum Smith. Rachel was ill with a long siege of fever which left her in a weakened condition. This was a crucial period in her life. She felt very much alonc 230 and seems at this time to have had no definite idea as to just what course to pursue. She finally decided to go back to New Jersey. N New Jersey she lived with her brother's people. 'They treated her with indifferent kindness for they felt that in joining the Mormons she had disgraced the family name. Through this period of uncertainty, Rachel did not lose her testimony, she had been present in Nauvoo after the martyrdom when the mantle of Joseph Smith had fallen upon Brigham Young. She gives us this account of the incident: After the Prophet's death when Sidney Rigdon came to Nauvoo and spoke, he thought it was his right and privilege to be president of the Church. Brigham Young jumped right up on the seat and spoke. If you had had your eyes shut you would have thought it was the Prophet Joseph. In fact, he looked like himhis very countenance seemed to change and he spoke like him. At this time an indelible impression was made upon Rachel's mind which nothing could quite efface. And yet it is not improbable that, had she remained with her brother's family, their antagonistic attitude might have dimmed her faith, separated as she was from the Church leaders. ER sister Anna had married Israel Ivins, and in 1853 they decided to go to Utah. Rachel was invited to accompany them. What to do? To cast her lot with Anna meant a pioneer life to which she was entirely unaccustomed. Her financial resources consisted of only $100.00, which she had saved bit by bit. She hesitated at the thought of becoming an added burden on Israel who would have his hands full in caring for his wife, little daughter Caroline, and baby son Anthony. In addition, Rachel had been suffering from a severe cold which seemed to have fastened itself upon her permanently. Her doctor hinted at tuberculosis, several of the family being consumptive, and he now warned her that the trip across the plains might mean her life. To add to her uncertainty, her brothers did everything in their power to persuade her to remain in the East, even offering to settle upon her an annual income for life if she would renounce the hated religion of Mormonism. Rachel's problem was the same that has confronted thousands of converts to the faith of the Latterday Saints, and, like those others, she solved it only after prayerful consideration, deciding to cast her lot with the pioneers in the West. Once she had made up her mind she was as firm as the rock of Gibraltar. Nothing could make her turn back. She was to know sorrow and poverty, but the day never came when she regretted her choice. How momentous to her posterity this decision turned out to be! Rachel did not embark upon her new enterprise unprepared. With the hundred dollars she had saved she bought such cloth as calico, bleach, linsey-woolsey, and material for both cotton and woolen dresses, with thread to make them up. She purchased some ready-made clothing together with bedding, pillowcases, sheets, etc., and what she termed "store things'necessary articles RACHEL RIDGWAY IVINS GRANT which it was unlikely she could procure in Salt Lake. HE trip across the plains was surprisingly pleasant. It was seven years since the first pioneer companies had blazed the trail, and by 1853 when Israel Ivins took his family West, the journey had lost many of its hardships and hazards. Those who came later could profit by the experiences of their predecessors and besides, Israel was a man of sound judgment who did not risk the journey without thorough preparation. His equipment consisted of two well-stocked wagons, two yoke of oxen and a cow. One of the wagons was furnished almost like a room, having chairs and a bed. This made it very pleasant for the travelers, for, besides providing comfortable quarters at night, it permitted them to lie or sit down during the day if they chose. The wagon was equipped with steps at the back, and the deliberate pace of the oxen permitted the occupants, when tired of riding, to slip out and walk for a while. There was plenty of good, wholesome food for all. The faithful cow furnished whatever milk was needed by the grownups as well as the children. Cornmeal mush and milk was the usual supper, supplemented with cooked, dried fruit. These pioneers had never heard of carbohydrates, proteins, or minerals, yet here was a 231 well-balanced meal, served with that best of sauces, a perfect appetite. Rachel found herself enjoying life to the full. Sometimes she read, but not for long on account of the swaying of the wagon. She kept her knitting in her pocket and spent a great deal of her time in this useful occupation. She enjoyed the two children, who were very good, and would spend hours amusing baby Anthony or telling stories to little "Caddie." OPTEN the company would travel till rather late. Then tired and hungry, they would camp when they came to some spot where water was available. While the women prepared the meal, Israel would unyoke his oxen and go to look for feed for them. Never would he eat until they were provided for. Often he would work until midnight getting everything in readiness for the start on the morrow and being sure that every comfort which this outdoor life could afford was provided for his family. 'True, Rachel was often weary, but untroubled sleep came to her at the end of the day. And while the exposure burned her face in spite of her faithful sunbonnet, and the hot winds dried and bleached her hair, she did not mind, for she felt herself growing stronger daily, until, at the end of the three (Continued on page 297) _> ERRATUM The committee on preparation of A Centenary of Relief Society takes this opportunity to correct a mistake found on page 35 of A Centenary of Relief Society. The picture on that page at