APRIL 1943 VOL. 30 NO. 4
he fails to find an ever-recurring thrill in the practical fruits of sound religion and correct living so abundant on every hand in town and hamlet here "in the tops of the mountains!" Well-ordered homes and farms, thriving communities, men and women of good will; what finer vindication of the principles our western pioneers strove so earnestly to perpetuate by just such agencies as the Relief Society! Fair-dealing, the maintenance of ethical standards, also are by-products of those principles. As printers and binders we believe we have "kept the faith' in all dealings with our clients. We shall continue to do so.
Deseret News Press
29 Richards Street Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
The Cover
"LE BENEDICITE" by Jean Baptiste Simeon Chardin, 1699-1773, in the Louvre, Paris, is the subject of the cover for the April issue of the Magazine. Alone among French artists of his day, Chardin considered simple home life as a worthy theme for his paintings. As a painter of the middle class' and of domestic interiors Chardin has few equals. The artist has caught the moment in the serving of the meal when the small child is being helped over a difficult word as she says grace. The scene is tenderly and sympathetically portrayed. Chardin was born the son of a cabinetmaker. Under his master, Aved, he gained something of his teacher's enthusiasm for the art of the Dutch painters. He was admitted to the Academy at the age of twenty-nine by which time he had earned renown with his genre scenes. In 1755 he was made Treasurer of the Academy which salaried position he held until his death.
Cover arrangements are by Evan Jensen
GIFTS FOR MOTHER'S DAY
Relief Society Souvenirs
CENTENNIAL COMMEMORATIVE PLATE
This pottery plate, 10½" in diameter, depicts the first Relief Society meeting held in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842. The inscription on the back gives information as to the organization, scope, and purposes of Relief Society.
Price $1.50 postpaid.
OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN
No. 1 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat gold-plated. Price $1.10.
No. 2 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid-gold front (gold filled) with 24 carat gold-plated back. Price $1.80 postpaid.
OUR LEGACY
This 329-page book contains poems selected from the writings of Latter-day Saint women from 1835 to 1942, including all the prize poems designated in the annual Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest.
Price $1.50 postpaid.
A CENTENARY OF RELIEF SOCIETY
This 96-page book, size 9x12", sets forth in picture and story the history of Relief Society from its beginning to the close of its first century. It is bound in a blue paper book cover with its title, "A Centenary of Relief Society," and the centennial insignia stamped in gold.
Price 50c.
Place orders with local Magazine representatives or with the office of the General Board. A special gift card will be sent with all copies designated as gifts.
All articles obtainable only from Relief Society General Board 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman President
Marcia K. Howells First Counselor
Donna D. Sorensen Second Counselor
Vera W. Pohlman Secretary-Treasurer
Belle S. Spafford
Anna S. Barlow
Anna B. Hart
Pauline T. Pingree
Vivian R. McConkie
Achsa E. Paxman
Ethel B. Andrew
Alice B. Castleton
Leda T. Jensen
Mary G. Judd
Gertrude R. Garff
Priscilla L. Evans
Rae B. Barker
Luella N. Adams
Leona F. Wintch
Florence J. Madsen
Nellie O. Parker
Marianne C. Sharp
Edith S. Elliott
Ann P. Nibley
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford
Acting Business Manager Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. 30 APRIL 1943 No. 4
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES