Mother Takes A Holiday (AS EVERY MOTHER SHOULD) Virginia Drew "PLEASE, Heavenly Father, help Mother not to be so tired tomorrow," prayed eight-year-old Jon. How did this little son of mine know that I was tired? Because I was cross so much of the time? I decided that I needed a vacation... Alone... Away from my family. But how could I think of: a vacation now, with the children in school? The thought bothered me all evening. Why sot now? This would be the best time to leave the family,. While the children were in school all day and would have little time to get into mischief. Why of course I could go! At first it was glorious to 'lie in bed until I really wanted to get up. An uninterrupted bath was something I had dreamed about, but 1 found it really could happen. Now I had time for all the little personal luxuries every woman loves. I spent hours window shopping, something I never had time for at home. It was all like a dream and I thoroughly enjoyed every moment of it. Most mothers are foolish enough to believe that their children cannot get along without them. They can, if they have been taught to do a few things for themselves; and if they haven't, it is time mother took a vacation to find out where she has made. Her mistakes. Children will soon learn to do many Page 268 things for themselves when mother is not there to do the work. Mothers occasionally need new vistas... A new outlook on life. Without it they become like an old shoe, all run-down at the heel and a little sloppy. It is surprising how bright and new the comfortable old shoe can be made with just a little rest, and with new paths to tread for a few days. A week after f had left home a letter came from ten-year-old Jean. "I hope you will be home soon, Mother Dear. There are so many problems and I need your advice about them," read the letter in her careful handwriting. I longed to rush out and take the first plane home, but I realized that this little daughter of mine had learned a lesson many children never learn. If I stayed a little longer, perhaps it would prove to be a lesson she would never forget. That one expression of trust from one of my children made the trip more than worth while. The old saying about not missing the water till the well is dry, fits the case perfectly. Since our job as mothers is such a constant one, it sometimes becomes monotonous and trying. We are there so constantly that both the mother and the family fail to appreciate each other until they are separated for a short time. MOTHER TAKES A HOLIDAY PERHAPS the greatest good that we mothers can gain from a holiday is the discovery that without all these tasks, our lives are quite empty. Our need for a vacation does not mean that we are tired of our job, but that the monotony of it has dulled the romance of wifehood and motherhood. All we need is a restful change. We have stayed so close to the lovely picture that we have failed to see all its beauty. We need occasionally to move a short distance away to appreciate its full significance. While walking one day, I passed a prim white cottage that reminded me of my own home. I paused as I heard the sweet, deep voice of a happy woman singing as she worked. The melody and the words made me stop short... "Goin' home, Goin' home, I'm a-goin' home." I wanted to go home. I had seen the ocean, twinkling night-skylines, beauty and splendor, enough to last me for quite a while. My hands had become soft and white, such hands as the advertisements suggest are necessary for enduring romance. I was rested through and through. My mind and body ached for physical work. I longed to slip my hand down in a sock with a not-too-large hole that needed darning. I wanted to wash and iron, and scrub a kitchen floor while I sang. I realized that for nine whole days I had not raised my voice to sing. I had had my holiday and it had been fun while it lasted. It was over now, and I wanted to go home. The family. Did not expect me home for several days. I realized 269 that perhaps I was foolish to drop in on them without warning. There would be things they would want to do to make my homecoming all that they had planned. But I wanted to go home and surprise them. It was I who was surprised! HE whole family was busily preparing dinner. Inside and out the house was as clean and tidy as the proverbial pin. There was no need to warn them of my coming. I knew without being told that they had taken pride in keeping home like this all the time I had been gone. There were braids where I had left curls, but braids are neater anyway. These children of mine were selfreliant. All they needed was a chance to demonstrate it. After joyous greetings were over, one of the first things said was, "Oh, Mother, we had no idea how much fun Daddy is. He knows more funny stories, and he did so many interesting things with us." My holiday had given these children a new father, one they scarcely knew before. He hadn't liked the idea of the vacation alone, but it had proved to be a great experience in his life also. It had given him a real opportunity to get acquainted with his children. That night as I lay in my own comfortable bed, I fully realized for the first time what John Howard Payne meant when he wrote, "There's no place like home." I knew then that every mother needs to get away by herself once in a while to fully appreciate the significance of those immortal lines.