[Vol1 | September 1914 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: The Grain Question]

THE GRAIN QUESTION.
Just after the October conference, in 1876, President Young sent for me to come to his office and instructed me to write an editorial urging the sisters to begin laying up grain against a day of need.
I felt very timid about giving this important advice, and went to Sister Eliza R.
Snow, but she said: "Yoa have been called to do this and it is for you to comply." I then went to President Daniel H.
Wells, who gave me the same answer that Sister Eliza had given and then 1 wrote the article and submitted it to President Young for approval.
He was satisfied with it, but dictated another paragraph, which contained advice to the brethren to assist the sisters in this new enterprise.
This was the first advice ever given to women to commence the storing of grain for a time of need.
President Young said: "I have called upon and urged the brethren to lay up grain against a day of want, and they do not follow my advice they excuse themselves by saying their wives and daughters want the proceeds of the grain to buy hats and bonnets," etc.
In fact, he gave me quite a dissertation on the excuses made by the brethren, and then explained that if the sisters were told to save grain they would not sell it.
Ever since that time our sisters have continued this work to save grain, and some wonderful experiences have been realized along these lines.
In all these years we have not had much need to use the grain stored away for the purpose it was designed, but with the dark cloud hovering over the world as it now does, we can 2 . see the prophetic wisdom of President Young in calling upon the sisters to save grain against a time of need.
All Europe and practically the eastern continent are involved in this conflict of war, and there seems little prospect of matters being adjusted at present for permanent peace.
The efforts made during the last few years to establish peace among nations and peoples seem particularly significant of the disturbances soon to come which would enhance the value of peace.
When the world's greatest advocates for the reign of peace met at The Hague we might have understood (if we did not)  that war was about to come upon the people, and now behold, it is almost at our own door, and, significantly enough, is raging with the greatest fury in Belgium itself.
From the first prophetic advice given us by President Brigham Young, we have been doing more or less as the years went by, and have kept on urging the sisters to do what they could in storing grain against a day of need.
Heber C.
Kimball, who was very prophetic in his preaching and teaching uttered many predictions warning the people against a day of scarcity and famine at one time he said the day would come: when a barrel of flour would be worth a barrel of gold.
Some who are not in hearty sympathy with our wheat gathering policy are fond of telling us that it is very little we have done thus far compared with what would be needed if famine really came.
But who knows how that little might be increased to a great deal should occasion require it!
Miracles have been wrought in this Church and may be again, according to our faith.
At all events, let us do all that is possible to increase our measures of grain this incoming harvest, and trust the Heavenly Father to aid and assist us in our undertakings in this direction.
This may be the beginning of the very war that the Prophet Joseph Smith prophesied would cover the earth, when there would be no peace found anywhere, and people would flee to Zion in the mountains for safety there would be such confusion and difficulties that people would be glad to come to escape from the dangers of all kinds that threaten the world.
Already there has been war in Mexico that has caused our people to flee to the United States.
We cannot be too prudent in saving grain, and in fact everything that can be kept, that would supply want.
Beans, for instance, are' capable of being kept an indefinite length of time.
It used to be that when men went to sea on long voyages for six or seven years, beans were the staple article they carried with them.
I feel that we as the women of Zion cannot too strongly urge the necessity of being prepared to assist others and take care of those who may come to us for relief and assistance in  . 3 the days of trouble that seem now to be drawing near, and are seen through the dark shadows that are threatening famine which nearly always follows when great wars prevail.
Wu must be on the alert to assist in every possible way and by all the means in our power, not only materially, but by our faith and prayers, to give relief in every way possible, as the name of our society implies.
EMMELINE B.
WELLS.