[Vol41 | November 1954 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting | Author: Jacobs]
[Visiting Teahcher Messages: "For Just As Surely As This Director Did Bring Leone O. Jacobs]
Visiting  cJeacher  1 1  iessages 
Book  of  Mormon  Gems  of  Truth 
Lesson  29—''.  .  .  For  Just  As  Surely  As  This  Director  Did  Bring  Our  Fathers, 
by  Following  Its  Course,  to  the  Promised  Land,  Shall  the  Words  of 
Christ,  If  We  Follow  Their  Course,  Carry  Us  Beyond  This  Vale 
of  Sorrow  Into  a  Far  Better  Land  of  Promise"  (Alma  37:45). 
LeouQ  O.  Jacobs 
For  Tuesday  February  i,  1955 
Objective:     To  point  out  that  everyone  has  the  power  within  himself  to  reach 
".  .  .  the  L^ncl  of  promise  .  .  ."  by  h\ing  by  the  words  of  Christ. 
'T^HE  ''ball"  or  "director"  found  by  its  practical  value  is  in  following  its 
father  Lehi,  as  the  little  band  direction,  unerringly, 
of  travelers  took  their  journey  into  The  Nephites  did  not  always  find 
the  wilderness,  was  prepared  by  the  it  easy  to  follow  the  "director."    At 
Lord    to    show    them    the    course  times  they  faltered,  were  slothful  in 
which  they  should  follow.  This  "di-  exercising  faith  and  diligence,  and 
rector"  was  also  called  "Liahona,"  then  their  progress  was  impeded.  So 
meaning  "a  compass."    In  compar-  it  may  be  with  us.    A  knowledge  of 
ing  the  words  of  Christ  to  the  "di-  Christ's  words,  and  diligence,  faith, 
rector,"  Alma  gives  us  a  beautiful  and  unswerving  devotion  in  follow- 
and   fitting  simile.     The  words  of  ing  them,  is  the  price  of  attaining 
Christ   are   designed   to   point   the  that  "land  of  promise."    Following 
way  to  that  glorious  land  where  we  Christ's    words    with    faith    is    our 
may  live  in  the  presence  of  God. 
How  grateful  we  should  be  that  the 
way  is  so  clearly  marked! 
The  simile  continues  in  its  appli- 
cation for,  as  Nephi  observed,  the
