[Vol41 | November 1954 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: FEATURES | Author: Folkman]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Make Baby Some Rattle Shoes Nell Folkman]
different  in  size,  special  features,  and 
cost. 
In  each  price  range  there  is  a 
choice  between  a  moderate-size 
model,  with  an  extra  large  oven;  a 
standard  size,  with  a  normal  size 
oven  and  additional  storage  space; 
or  a  standard  size  with  two  ovens, 
enabling  the  user  to  bake  at  differ- 
ent temperatures  or  bake  and  broil 
simultaneously. 
Such  things  as  utility  drawers, 
warming  drawers,  oven  lights,  pilot 
lights,  automatic  controls,  and  deep 
well  cookers  all  add  to  the  cost.  Be- 
fore selecting  a  range  with  these  fea- 
tures, make  sure  that  they  will  be 
put  to  profitable  use. 
The  arrangement  of  surface  units 
should  be  given  serious  considera- 
tion at  the  time  the  range  is  pur- 
chased. The  safest  arrangement  is 
considered  to  be  the  straight  line  of 
units  across  the  back  of  the  range. 
Each  utensil  may  be  put  in  place, 
removed,  or  checked  on  without  one 
Page  770 
having  to  reach  over  another  kettle. 
It  also  leaves  the  front  of  the  range 
clear  for  food  service.  The  next  best 
arrangement,  so  far  as  safety  is  con- 
cerned, is  the  one  where  there  are 
two  elements  at  each  end  of  the 
range  top.  By  careful  planning, 
there  is  little  need  for  one  reaching 
over  steaming  kettles  with  this  ar- 
rangement. Free  space  is  available 
in  the  center  for  food  service.  The 
least  safe  arrangement  is  the  one 
where  all  four  elements  are  close  to- 
gether. Eighty-five  per  cent  of  all 
burns  originating  from  the  top  of 
the  range  have  been  from  the  so- 
called  ''clustered  arrangement''  of 
cooking  units. 
The  arrangement  of  switches  is 
also  worthy  of  serious  thought.  In 
homes  where  there  are  small  chil- 
dren or  very  elderly  folks  who  use 
the  range,  switches  or  push  buttons 
above  the  cooking  surface  are  safer 
in  many  ways.  A  safe,  convenient 
arrangement  and  method  of  opera- 
tion of  heat  controls,  is  one  feature 
that  might  actually  save  money, 
even  though  it  added  to  the  cost  of 
the  particular  model. 
Careful  study  of  your  book  of  in- 
structions will  add  to  the  efficient 
use  of  your  range.  Proper  use  of  a 
range  is  an  important  part  of  its 
care.  Prevent  spillovers  by  not  fill- 
ing saucepans  too  full  and  not  leav-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
771 
ing  heat  on  high  too  long.  When 
water  begins  to  boil,  turn  the  heat 
down.  Slow  boiling  is  just  as  ef- 
fective as  rapid  boiling.  Prevent  un- 
necessary grease  spattering  by  using 
moderate  heats  when  frying  and 
roasting.  Aluminum  foil  placed  un- 
der the  unit  (with  a  hole  m  center 
for  air)  saves  time  in  cleaning. 
When  baking,  arrange  the  tins  so 
that  the  pans  do  not  touch  the  sides 
of  the  oven  or  each  other.  This  al- 
lows for  circulation  of  hot  air  around 
each  pan  and  prevents  uneven  bak- 
ing. When  baking  on  two  racks, 
stagger  the  pans  so  one  is  ne\'er  di- 
rectly above  another. 
In  order  to  preserve  the  beauty  of 
a  range,  avoid  harsh  abrasi\'es,  sud- 
den changes  of  temperature,  and 
scratches.  Even  though  the  finish 
is  labeled  acid  resistant,  any  acid 
food,  such  as  vinegar,  salad  dressing, 
or  fruit  juices  should  be  wiped  up 
immediately  with  a  dry  cloth  or 
paper  towel.  Follow  with  a  thor- 
ough cleaning  as  soon  as  the  range 
has  cooled. 
A  ring  of  asbestos,  cut  to  fit 
around  the  unit,  will  protect  the 
enamel  when  large  pieces  of  equip- 
ment are  used.  A  general  rule  for 
all  ranges  states:  for  greatest  effici- 
ency of  your  range  top,  use  utensils 
that  are  the  same  size  as  the  unit  on 
which  they  are  used. 
After  each  meal,  when  the  enamel 
is  cool  to  the  touch,  wipe  the  sur- 
face of  your  range  with  a  damp, 
soapy  cloth,  then  with  one  wrung 
out  of  clear,  warm  water.    Burn  off 
spilled  food  on  open  units,  then 
remove  with  a  soft  brush  rather  than 
try  to  dig  or  scrape  it  off. 
Cleaning  the  oven  after  each  use 
will  prevent  grease  and  spillovers 
from  baking  into  the  enamel.  When 
baking  fruit  pies  and  other  juicy 
dishes,  insert  a  sheet  of  aluminum 
foil  under  the  tin  or  dish  during  the 
latter  half  of  the  baking  period. 
However,  serious  damage  has  result- 
ed when  overcautious  cooks  have 
completely  lined  their  ovens  with 
foil  in  an  attempt  to  keep  them 
clean. 
Electric  roasters  now  have  almost 
the  versatility  of  a  kitchen  range. 
They  may  be  used  for  roasting,  bak- 
ing, stewing,  steaming,  boiling,  toast- 
ing, and  frying.  A  convenient  fea- 
ture is  that  they  may  be  connected 
to  a  regular  outlet,  thus  requiring  no 
special  wiring.  Stands  especially  de- 
signed for  holding  the  roaster,  are 
available  in  either  table  or  cabinet 
style.  This  piece  of  equipment  is 
especially  suited  to  people  who  are 
not  permanently  located  and  do  not 
want  to  invest  in  a  range. 
Thoughts  for  Discussion 
1 .  The  careful  seleetion  of  the  right 
kind  of  utensils  and  efficient  methods  ot 
cookery  will  make  for  economical  use  of 
your  range.  Cite  examples  to  prove  this 
fact  from  your  own  experiences  or  those 
of  others. 
2.  Have  members  tell  of  uses  they  have 
made  of  electric  roasters. 
3.  Give  plenty  of  time  to  informal  dis- 
cussion. Discuss  methods  and  new  clean- 
ing agents  for  cleansing  ovens,  cautions 
to  be  taken,  etc. 
k/C  cJhought 
Gene  RomoJo 
No  heart  can  be  lonely 
Where  God  is  housed.

JLiterature — Literature  of  England 
Lesson  45— "Wuthering  Heights"  by  Emily  Bronte 
Elder  Briant  S.  Jacobs 
For  Tuesday,  February  15,  1955 
Objective:    To  become  better  acquainted  vvitb  the  novel  as  an  art  form,  and  to 
weigh  and  consider  Emily  Bronte,  and  Wuthering  Heights,  as  they  relate  to  us. 
I 
N  LAST  month's  discussion  we 
mentioned  the  life  of  Emily 
Bronte,  and  how  her  poems  had 
integrity  because  they  gave  a  true 
statement  of  the  inward,  intense 
events  of  her  existence.  Having 
thus  met  specimens  of  her  art  in 
cameo-size,  we  are  now  better  pre- 
pared to  approach  her  masterpiece. 
This  novel  is  portrayed  against  a 
backdrop  in  harmony  with  Miss 
Bronte's  memorable,  natural  char- 
acters and  the  reality  which  this 
passionate,  haunting  book  achieves. 
Wuthering  Heights  has  been 
many  things  to  many  readers,  start- 
ing immediately  from  the  day  of  its 
publication  in  1847,  only  a  few 
months  before  Emily's  death  at  age 
thirty.  In  her  preface  to  the  1850 
edition,  Charlotte  Bronte,  Emily's 
sister,  admits  charges  that  some  of 
the  reading  public  have  found  the 
book  ''rude."  In  answer  to  the 
charge  that  her  sister's  book  is  rustic, 
Charlotte  writes: 
I  admit  the  charge,  for  I  feel  the  qual- 
ity. It  is  rustic  all  through.  It  is  moor- 
ish, and  wild,  and  knotty  as  the  root  of 
heath.  Nor  was  it  natural  that  it  should 
be  otherwise;  the  author  being  herself 
a  native  and  nursling  of  the  moors. 
Aside  from  one  lone  reviewer  who, 
by  1850,  had  sensed  the  power  and 
genius  of  the  novel,  Charlotte,  at 
least,  understood  the  book  and  its 
significance,  for  she  speaks  of  "the 
Page  772 
immature  but  very  real  powers"  of 
this  ''first  novel."  Charlotte  main- 
tained that,  as  a  creative  artist, 
Emily's  role  was  merely  that  of  mid- 
wife, regardless  of  whether  her  crea- 
tions are  to  be  praised  or  blamed. 
In  this  we  must  agree.  Wuthering 
Heights,  of  necessity,  must  be  the 
spontaneous  outgrowth  of  Emily's 
instinctive  genius,  since  never  in 
her  life  did  she  have  contact  with 
any  literary  school  or  dominant  liter- 
ary influence. 
While  Charlotte  sought  to  ex- 
plain Wuthering  Hei^^tSy  so  it 
would  be  accepted,  she,  nevertheless, 
insisted  on  at  least  one  element  of 
grandeur  within  the  novel:  its  sus- 
tained magnificent  power.  She  also 
came  near  pointing  out  the  true 
identity  of  the  book  as  a  prose 
poem,  in  which  Emily's  poetic  pow- 
ers, the  real  source  of  her  genius, 
achieve  a  shattering  interplay  of 
forces,  tensions,  and  various  levels 
of  interpretations.  The  Victorians 
felt  this  inexplicable  power,  but  be- 
cause it  could  not  be  explained,  and 
because  the  book  defied  almost  all 
conventions— of  form,  subject  mat- 
ter, plot,  characterization,  it  was 
little  read  in  the  nineteenth  century, 
since  it  was  held  to  be  a  warped, 
chaotic  book.  Even  as  late  as  its 
1929  edition,  the  Encyclopedia  Bxit-
