[Vol41 | November 1954 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
"It is recommended that those Relief Societies whose meeting date would fall on February 22d, use the fifth Tuesday in March to bring the social science lessons upto-date. LESSON DEPARTMENT By this section also Congress has the power to make rules and regulations respecting territories of the United States, to dispose of their property. Section 4 guarantees each state a republican form of government and imposes upon the United States the duty to protect each state from invasion, and upon application of the state, from domestic violence. Article V—Method of Amending Constitution (Y. R. C., pp. 171-170; C. Of U. S., pp. 170-175) Article V of the Constitution outlines the method of amending the Constitution. 'This may be ac complished by both houses of Congress presenting a joint resolution of amendment to the legislatures of the various states. Upon adoption of such joint resolution by threefourths of the states, the Amendment becomes effective. 'This method of amendment is the one which has been universally followed in all the amendments thus far adopted. The other method of amendment provided in the Constitution is for the legislatures of two-thirds of the states to apply to Congress for the calling of a convention to propose amendments to the Constitution. Amendments proposed by such a convention become operative when adopted by the legislatures of threefourths of the states. Article VI—Supremacy of Constitution (Y. R. C., pp. 181-187; C. Of U. S., pp. 176- 184) Article VI of the Constitution contains its general provisions. Section 1 made the debts of the National Government, prior to adop- 779 tion of the Constitution, the debts of the new Government. Clause 2 provides that the Constitution of the United States, the laws of the United States made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties made under the authority of the United States, the supreme law of the land. 'The judges in all states are bound thereby, anything in the law or Constitution of any state to the contrary notwithstanding. Clause 3 provides that all Senators and Representatives of the United States, members of state legislatures, and all executive and judicial officers of the United States, and of the several states, shall be bound by oath or affirmation to support the Constitution of the United States. Article VII—Ratification of Constitution (Y. R. C., pp. 189-193; C. Of U. S., pp. 185-192) Article VII provided that upon ratification by the conventions of nine states the Constitution should be established. Nine state conventions had acted by June 21, 1788. Bill of Rights (C. Of U. S., pp. 194- 197) In 1789, the first Congress assembled under the new Constitution submitted to the states twelve proposed Amendments to the Constitution. 'Ten of these Amendments were adopted by the requisite threefourths of the states and became a part of our Constitution on June 15, 1791. These first 'Ten Amendments are popularly known as the "Bill of Rights." In this lesson we are considering only the first four Amendments of the Bill of Rights. During the debates on the question of the adoption of the Consti- 780 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 tution, the criticism most frequently leveled against it was that it contained no Bill of Rights to guarantee what were considered the fundamental rights of the individual against encroachment by the Government. Such formal statements or guarantees were a common feature of the state constitutions. Ideas contained in these Amendments stemmed from declarations as far back as Magna Charta (1215). 'They found expression in the English Pe. Tition of Right of 1628 and the English Bill of Rights of 1688. They were proclaimed by the Stamp Act Congress of 1765, the First Continental Congress of 1774, and by the Declaration of Independence. These pronouncements were so deeply imbedded in the thinking of Americans that formal, written recognition of them was deemed vital to the popular acceptance of the new Government. The guarantees and prohibitions contained in the first Ten Amendments apply only to the National Government and not to the states. Most state constitutions, however, contain similar pronouncements as restrictions upon the state governments, forbidding their encroachment into the basic individual rights and liberties of their citizens. First Amendment Freedom of Religion, Press, Speech, Assembly, and Petition (Y. R. C., pp. 196-197; C. Of U. S., pp. 197- 206) Congress. Shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. It will be remembered that many of the colonists left England because of religious persecution. Laws were enacted in England which trequired the people to support the established church whether or not they belonged to it. At times the persecution of the non-conformists was very severe. In nearly all of the colonies provision was made by law for the support of an established church. Strangely enough some of the colonial governments were guilty of religious persecution of nonconformists, notwithstanding they themselves had been the victims of such treatment. Rhode Island was one colony which was founded upon the proposition of complete religious freedom and the complete separation of church and state. This principle was adopted by the First Amendment. This amendment also prohibits Congress from passing any law interfering with complete freedom of individual conscience. Every person in this country is guaranteed the privilege of believing or accepting, or not believing or accepting any religious principle he chooses to espouse or reject. However, it must be remembered that the First Amendment does not permit individuals to break the law under the guise of belief. Thus the laws may not be broken and immunity therefrom claimed because illegal practices are advocated and taught under the guise of religion. Neither can an individual refuse to support the Government, such as in time of war, because he belongs to a church which repudiates war on any ground or reason and even though grounded upon religious belief. 'Thus = so-called "conscientious objector" 1 LESSON DEPARTMENT not excused from supporting the Government in time of war. Freedom of speech and of the press are two of the great mghts guaranteed to citizens by the First Amendment. Such freedom of expression was one of the rights most dearly cherished by the founding fathers and was a principle for which they had been required to fight throughout the struggle with the English government. It was but natural that the protection of these great rights should have been uppermost in the minds of the founding fathers. A citizen may therefore speak and write anything he chooses so long as he does not violate the laws against defamation of character which we know commonly as libel and slander. Libelous and slanderous writing and sayings are punishable under the law; and a person guilty of either is subject to payment of damages to the aggrieved party. I The right to free speech and press is not unlimited. One may criticize or say anything one chooses against the Government so long as it is honest criticism. One may not, on the other hand, incite treason or rebellion against the Government under the guise of freedom of speech and press. Similarly, one may not abuse this great privilege of free constructive criticism to cripple the necessary operations of Government. 'This is true, especially, in time of war. The Supreme Court of the United States has said the following on this subject: Freedom of the press may protect criticism and agitation for modification or repeal of laws, but it does not extend to protection of him who counsels and encourages the violation of the law as it exists. The Constitution was adopted to 781 preserve our government, not to serve as a protecting screen for those who, while claiming its privileges, seek to destroy. It. — Other great principles of the First Amendment are the protection of the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition Government for redress of grievances. The assembly, however, must be peaceable and must not violate the rights of other citizens. Furthermore, public meetings of this character are subject to regulations designed to safeguard the public order and to insure others of the right to the use of the streets and other public places to which they are likewise equally entitled. The right to petition for redress is a basic right of all free peoples and may not be denied under our Constitution. Second Amendment — Right to Bear Arms (Y. R. C., pp. 198-199; C. Of U. S., p. 206). A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms shall not be infringed. In the Declaration of Independence complaint was made that kings had disarmed the people. This amendment was intended as a safeguard against Government. Usurpation of authority not given by the Constitution to the National Government. 'This does not, however, confer upon the lawless the right to carry concealed and dangerous weapons for the purpose of preying upon other citizens. The traffic in and sale of firearms may be regulated by law. Amendment Two guarantees that the weapons to make secure the militia for the protection of the people may not be denied to the people. 782 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 ORGAN BOOKS for Church and Home. At the Console—Hammond QOngne 0. 0 20ie ee eeeeee 1.50 _ At the Console—Consonata Onocinine! S: aee 1.50. Chancel Echoes—Hammond OGG - 2032e.----ceeren--- acces 1.50 Chancel Echoes—Consonata ©) -(: t oe aannee 1.50. Consonata Concert Album —Vols. 1 & 2 ea. 1.00. Devotional Organ Album— lo en ee, 2430. Lorenz Folio of One Page Voluntaries—Vols. 1, 2, Gra Sf: - -.-- aeeeeeeneneesea. 1.25. Music For the Consonata— Veils. 1 @y2° 2.. Ee. Ea. 1.50. Organ Musings --. 1.50. Organ Voluntaries— Schreiner—Vols. 1 & 2, ea. 3.50. Organ Melodies—Landon.. 1.50. Preludes For Service lez — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank em me ee ae a ee ee ee t I DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main I Salt Lake City 1, Utah 1 I 1 I Please send the music indicated above. } [] On Approval (C Charge i ) Money Enclosed 1 I! I I I t 45-47 SOUTH MAIN Sal Lake Cry 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO #/ 2260 WASHINGTON BLYD. OGDEN Third Amendment — Quartering of Soldiers (Y. R. C., pp. 200-201; C. Of U. S., page 207) No Soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, without the consent of the Owner, nor in time of war but in a manner to be prescribed by law. The colonists were particularly sensitive to the quartering of troops in their midst by the British Crown. They looked upon the soldiers which King George III sent to America as a menace to their liberties. 'They voiced objection to the practice in the Declaration of Independence. In early times kings resorted to the practice of quartering troops upon rebellious subjects, or upon one who had incurred the royal disfavor, as a means of punishment. They also sent troops into localities or towns and required the inhabitants to take them into their homes and feed them. Oftentimes this was required without any payment or reimbursement for such expense to the owner. Standing armies were regarded as the instruments of lawless power. It will be remembered that many of the troops sent to America prior to the Revolution were mercenary troops rented to the British by the Hessian princes. Fourth Amendment — Arrests and Searches — Warrants (Y. R. C., pp. 201-102; C. Of U. S., pp. 208-210) The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and _particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized. LESSON DEPARTMENT In colonial times it was common practice for magistrates to issue what were called "Writs of Assistance." These documents were general search warrants which permitted officers to invade homes and private premises where they suspected illegal goods might be concealed or where suspected persons might be hiding. This form of warrant had also been used in England; and there were cases in England where such writs had been used to secure evidence to convict men of crimes. The early Americans strongly resented this practice and fought against it. It was regarded as illegal; a violation of the ancient English axiom that "A man's home is his castle." Under this Amendment it is guaranteed that no search of private premises may be made to apprehend a person suspected of crime, or a seizure made of private papers without a warrant sworn to under oath describing or naming the person and the articles to be seized. The Fourth Amendment protects every citizen against unauthorized invasion of his premises and seizure of his private effects and papers. No person may be searched unless he is lawfully arrested or charged with a crime. Furthermore, seizure of private papers to be used as evidence in court against the owner is tantamount to making him give testimony against himself, which is prohibited by the Fifth Amendment. Questions on the Lesson 1. What is the meaning of "Full Faith and Credit" under the Constitution? 2. Describe briefly how the "Privileges and Immunities" of each citizen are protected by the Constitution. 3. How are new states and territories admitted to the Union? 783 Lurope In 1955 For Details Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY 2, UTAH Phone: 4-2017 4. Does the Constitution prescribe the form of Government of the states? What form is prescribed? 5. By what method may the Constitution be amended? 6. What constitutes the "Supreme Law of the Land" under the Constitution? 7. Why are the first Ten Amendments to the Constitution called the "Bill of Rights"? 8. What was the "Bill of Rights" designed to accomplish? 9. How did the founding fathers regard a state supported church? 10. Does ''Freedom of Conscience" sanction unlawful acts in the name of religion? 11. How far may a citizen go in his criticism of the Government? 12. What are the limits of the right of assembly under the Constitution? 13. Under the Second Amendment may all citizens carry weapons? Why not? 14. How are the rights of citizens protected by the Fourth Amendment? 784 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 Lo Electricity does so much, costs so little.