Mothers of Our Leaders in Israel. Susa Young Gates. We present as our frontispiece the picture of President Anthon H. Lund, the month of May having- given to us this true nobleman, wise counselor, scholar and historian. He is a widely j-cad, and well informed man. President Lund was born May 15, 1844. This good and greatly beloved man presides over the Salt Lake Temple, representing President Joseph F. Smith in his daily ministrations in those sacred courts. And as he sits in the morn- ing assemblies, one looks at his benign countenance, his speaking eyes, and wonders what woman and women assisted in shaping the soul of this great leader, wise philosopher and born philan- thropist. And so we present the modest results of a persistent endeavor to discover the lives and characters of the women grouped about the formative period of President Lund's life. His tenderly mannered mother, his brave grandmother, his splendid mother-in-law, and his wise, attractive yet very retiring — wife all these women have done their part in his life's work. His mother was a refined, sensitive, delicately reared woman. She was born in Aalborg, lying on the beautiful Lim fjord. Den- mark, in 1822. Living her brief span of life out in twenty-five years, she died when her little only son was but three years old. The doctor in the house, the subdued voices, the pressure of gloom everywhere, accentuated by the dreary rain without, fell so heavily on the spirit of the child that long years and changing scenes have not eradicated the shock, and time has but softened the pathetic memory, not removed it. The little boy was placed under the care of his grandmother, MOrilliRS ()/ OUR LEADERS IN ISRAEL. 245 Airs. Gertrude Anderson, who supplied the loving tenderness and the watchful wisdom, otherwise denied him by his mother's un- timely death. She taught him to honor his soldier father who marched away with the flower of Denmark's army, in 1848. So attached did he become to his grandmother that he begged to remain with her after his father returned from the wars, and moved to a distant city. His grandmother was the soul of honor her discipline might; be severe at times, but her love shone through every act and word. She recognized the great gifts of her tiny grandson and sent him to a private school when only four years of age. When he was seven he entered the public school, and from the first was an honor pupil. His grandmother taught him to love the Bible. She was herself a God-fearing woman and she loved to listen to the clear, childish voice reading the solemn history of God's hand-dealings with His children of olden time. When the gospel was brought to Denmark his uncle Jens and his grandmother were among the first to receive its teachings. She was baptized in 1853, her son Jens Anderson being one among the very first baptized companies in Denmark. Sister.\nderson filled her home with the Church books and these were eagerly studied by her gifted and precocious grandson. Imagine how her heart must have swelled with pride to see her darling Anthon lifted upon the table when not fourteen years old, by President C. D. Fjeldsted to give his missionary report to the assembled conference. This lofty spirited woman forsook all her friends and asso- iates and with her grandson Anthon took ship at Hamburg, in 1862, in the Benjamin Eraiiklin, arriving in the Valley September PR ESI 1)1-: NT l.L'NL) \\'.\S I',.\ I'TIZP:!) NEAN TTIE i'.RIDCl-: IN THIS AAI.BOKC, CANAL. : 
 24, 1862. Sister Anderson removed to Cedar, where her son Jens was already located, and there died in 1866, respected by her friends and loved closely and truly by her family and kindred. She bore the severe trials incident to changed surroundings, a new language, pioneer conditions, and the inevitable misunder- standings of new friends and associates, with the same fortitude and patient submission which marked all her life. She was one of those quiet heroines, those modest noblewomen whom life tosses on the waves of adversity but finally lays tenderly on the golden sands of the eternal shores, crowned with the diadem of achievement, her breast composed in the peace that passeth all understanding. MRS. SARAH ANN NELSON-PETERSON. The subject of this little sketch was known to most Saints in the stirring pioneer days of Utah's founding. She was the mother-in-law of President A. H. Lund, and she had a lasting influence on his life and character. The following sketch was prepared by him at the time of her death There are no great ex- ploits or brilliant feats to relate, nor many such thril- ling incidents as are gen- erally considered necessary to make up the life of a heroine still; she was a heroine in the true mean- ing of the word, for her life was an unbroken chain of good works and as long; as genuine goodness, un- flinching integrity, and un- wavering faith and trust in the Lord are traits esteemed so highly by the Latter-day Saints, so long will such lives as that here described be admired and held in the greatest veneration. We think that our readers will be interested in the history MRS. SARAH A. PETERSON, of one of the true mothers Mother-in-law of President T.und. nf Israel. Sarah Ann Peterson, wife of President Canute Peter- Sister son of the Sanpete Stake of Zion, was born in Kendall Township, !: MUTlUiRS Of OUR LEADERS IN ISRAEL. 247 Orleans County, New York, February 16, 1827. Her parents were Quakers. Her father, Cornelius Nelson, with his wife, Kari, and four children left Norway in 1825, to escape religious persecution. They were passengers in the little sloop Restaura- tionen which carried the first company of emigrants from that country direct to America. With the rest of the company which came across the ocean with them they settled near Lake Ontario. While she was still but a small child her father died. Grandma Peterson's father was a man who had implicit faith in God and always expressed his gratitude to God for His kindness to him, as this little incident will show. When great-grandfather Nelson came to New York he had to struggle to get him a house built, which was made of lumber. One day, shortly after his house was finished, while he was at work, a fire destroyed the house and every piece of furniture contained in it. When he came home his family were all standing in the street. The first thing great-grandfather asked was, "Are all the children safe?" His wife answered, "Yes." Then he immediately knelt down in the road and thanked God for His kindness in preserving his wife and children. Her grand-uncle Kleng Person, had visited Illinois and was charmed with the fertile lands he found there, and he persuaded most of the Norwegians living in Kendall Township to move to that state. Her mother went with them. They took up land in La Salle County, and the family soon became pros- perous. The Nelson homestead became famed for its open-handed and many a weary traveler rested under its friendly hospitality, roof. This was in the days before the genus tramp had become so abundant. Mrs. Nelson was kindness itself, and always ready to help others. Often when the traveler had left his wet stock- ings at the hearth to dry she would wash and mend them while he slept, and the change effected in them would at times be so great that he would not know the pair he found in the morning A training under such a mother could but leave its impression on the young girl, and loving kindness and solicitude for the welfare of others became the leading traits of her character, and they were quite marked even when she was a girl. She was a general favorite with the family, and her pleasing manners and warm- hearted sympathy endeared her to all who became acquainted with her. When she afterwards left her home to gather with the Saints the young "Mormon" girl was held in kindly remem- brance by many people. Thirty-four years later she visited the ]>laces so well known to her childhood. Going through a by-lane one day she overtook a poor blind woman whom she had often befriended in her young days. Calling her by name in the old familar wav, the blind woman over-joved turned round and said — ; 248 KELlEl- SOCIEIY MAGAZINE. "Isit possible that Sarah Nelson has come back?" She did not know that Sister I'eterson was in the neighborhood. When she was fourteen years of age some Latter-day Saint elders visited the Norwegian settlement and quite a number joined the Church. Mrs. Nelson was quite fond of some of those who belonged to the Church, but being a Quaker she could not see the necessity of baptism. She did not hinder her daugh- ter, however, when she became convinced of the truth of the gospel, from being baptized. Sister Sarah joined the Church at the time when persecution was raging in the state against the Saints, and they were driven from Nauvoo. All manner of lies and false rumors concerning them were in circulation, but believ- ing the gospel with her whole heart nothing could deter her from casting her lot with the people of God. In 1849 most of the Saints in that neighborhood left to gather with the body of the Church. Now came the great trial of her life. The counsel to the Saints was to gather. She knew that only in the meetings of the Saints could she receive spiritual food nearly all those who remained who had been members of the Church were tainted with Strangism and apostasy to remain; would be spiritual starvation but on the other hand the Saints; had been driven out into a desert and nothing but the wildest umiors respecting their fate was passing from mouth to mouth. She had a good home, and she loved her folks with an affection the strong affection few are capable of feeling. What should she do? She sought the Lord earnestly to guide her to choose the right. Her answer was in the words of Jesus: "He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me." This made her part clear to her but it was nevertheless an excruciating; ordeal for her to bid her loved ones good-by. Her mother asked the blessings of the Lord to follow her. The company with which she went traveled with teams across the states of Illinois and Iowa to Council Bluffs where the com- panies were fitting out for the journey across the plains. It was a slow way of traveling, and it took weeks to go the same dis- tance that now is passed over in the course of a day and night iij the cars. Before reaching the Missouri River cholera broke out in the camp. Among those attacked was Sister Sarah A. Nelson, who became dangerously sick the sisters did all possible; for her, but she was rapidly growing worse. She had no rela- tives with the train. When Canute Peterson who was along in the company heard how sick she was, he was deeply affected. He had known her from her childhood, and after his mother died he had been treated in her mother's home as if he had been one of the family. He thought of the great sacrifices she had made for the Gospel's sake and then how her family would be shocked; to hear of her death. He went down into a grove of trees by MOTUIiRS Ol- OUR LllADlLRS IN ISRAEL. 249 the river side and there wrestled with the Lord in earnest prayer. He received a marvelous answ^er to his prayer. The Spirit of God came upon him in a manner he had never before experienced. He felt that the gift of healing had been bestowed upon him, and without allowing his thoughts to be directed upon any other subject he went straight up to the wagon where Sister Peterson was lying, and as there were several sisters in the wagon he could not enter it, but put his hand under the wagon cover and laid it upon her head and in the name of the Lord rebuked the disease and commanded it to leave her. Her groaning ceased, the cramp- ing pain left her immediately, and within an hour she was up and trying to help others who were sick. She said in telling her ex- perience on this occasion, that as soon as she felt his hand upon her head she knew whose it was although she could not see him. and she felt a power thrill through her whole system removing her intense suffering at once. It was a great testimony to her that the signs follow those who believe. During the short time of her sickness Brother Peterson learned how much she was to him. They were not engaged. Her pleasant manners had always charmed him her integrity to her; faith had won his admiration, and he looked upon her as almost a superior being: she had been deeply touched by the love she had witnessed between him and his invalid mother, and by his dutiful course in bending every energy towards earning means for her support, a responsibility that fell on him when he was hardly in his teens, after his father's death; and her esteem for him had been heightened when he had filled an honorable mission to a neighboring state. Entertaining such feelings toward each other, and circumstanced as they were, it is but natural that these feelings should ripen into the stronger feelings of love. Many suitors had sought to gain the winsome girl, but none had been able to strike a responsive chord in her heart until Canute Peter- son told her of his love. He had nothing to offer her but his honest heart, but she knew that that was beyond price to her. They were married July 3, 1849, at Council Bluffs by Apostle Orson Hyde, and they spent their honeymoon crossing the almost trackless plains which lay between Missouri and Salt Lake City. They arrived in Salt Lake City, October 25, 1849. They moved into the Old Fort, and here was born their first son the year after. In 1851 they moved to Lehi and were among the first settlers who located at that place. The next year was spent in clearing the land and building a little house, and then Brother Peterson received' a call to go to Norway on a mission. His labors had been hitherto directed to making a home for his wife and child. There was no money in circulation, and he had none either to take him to his field of labor or to leave for their support during his absence. The thought of leaving her in a place just being settled; 250 RELIEl' SOCIETY MAGAZINE. aiid without any relatives or any of the friends that had come with them across the plains was particularly trying- to him but; his wife was ready to make another sacrifice for the sake of the gospel, which held first place in her heart, and encouraged him to go where his duty pointed, and she assisted him in making" prepar- ations for the journey. She did feel lonesome when he had gone. Rumor had it that he would be gone seven years. He was not gone as long as that, but a little daughter born some months after his leaving home was able to read fluently in the first reader when he returned. Sister Peterson was blessed in having many friends, and they were a great comfort to her. During her husband's absence an Indian war broke out in Utah County, and the few settlers at Lehi moved together for pro- tection. Sister Peterson and Sister Kearns, whose husband was laboring as a missionary on the Sandwich Islands, moved into a little house which they occupied together. They found much comfort in each other's society and a strong attachment sprang up between them and also between their children. When their hus- bands returned they became almost like David and Jonathan. It was interesting to hear Sister Peterson relate their experiences during- this trying period. When exciting news had been re- ceived of the depredations of the Indians in the neighborhood it caused them many sleepless nights. The footstep of a passer-by or the tramping of roaming cattle would fill them with anxiety any unusual noise in the stillness of the night would startle them. If one of them should fall asleep the other would be sure to be on guard. Sister Peterson also passed through the grasshopper war during the time her husband was away. While so many families had to live on roots and greens, not being able to procure flour, she and her children never lacked for bread. She felt the Lord provided for her and it filled her with deep gratitude to Him. It was a happy meeting when her husband returned. She was proud and thankful that he had accomplished an honoral)le and successful mission to the land of her forefathers, and had brought a large company of Saints back with him. He had gone literally without purse or scrip and the Lord had marvelously opened the way for him. He found that she had been a splendid manager, for she had not only sustained herself and her children, but was in a much better condition financially than when he left. After his return Brother Peterson worked hard to make his family comfortable, and the Lord prospered him. He also spent much time in the ministry, being called to act as counselor to Bishop Evans of Lehi. In those early days there were no rail- roads and all travel and freighting were done with teams. As Brother Peterson was so well known to the Scandinavians, and MOTHERS OF OUR LEADERS IN ISRAEL. 251 living only a day's travel from Salt Lake City, his place became a convenient point for them to stop both going to and returning from the city, and hundreds received a welcome under his hos- pitable roof. Sister Peterson had the peculiar knack of making people feel entirely at home when they were her guests. In 1867 her husband was called to be bishop of Ephraim. Again she had to bid good-by to a host of dear friends and help her husband begin a new home. This she did cheerfully. Soon after her arrival at Ephraim the sisters chose her to preside over the Relief Society there. From this time began her public career as a leader among the sisters in charitable works, and this was — continued till her death nearly thirty years. Under her able management this society became very pros- perous. Nearly all the women in Ephraim were enrolled as mem- bers. The poor were looked after and the sisters would take turns to watch over and nurse the sick. Besides this the prime object of the society the sisters built a hall of their own in which they held their meetings these were almost as the love feasts of; ofi!, a sisterly affection binding all the members together. When the Manti Temple was building, the society made large donations towards its erection. When the First Presidency counseled the ];eople to store up grain for a time of need this society stored up many hundred bushels of wheat. Considerable means were also furnished missionaries to take them on their way and to their families at home. All was raised through small contributions. Shortly after she had become President of this society great exertions were made by the Saints to gather the poor from the old countries. Several thousand dollars were collected in Ephraim alone for this purpose. Sister Peterson and the sisters devised a scheme as novel as it was unique, to raise means for this worthy object. The members of the society agreed among themselves that they would donate all the eggs their hens should lay on Sundays for the purpose of emigrating the poor. This was car- ried out for many years and some of the other settlements fol- lowed the example of the good sisters of Ephraim. It looked as if the chickens entered into the spirit of the thing for they seemed to lay more eggs on Sunday than on any other day in the week! Hundreds of dollars were raised in this way and many a poor Saint owes his deliverance from Babylon to the eggs deposited on Sunday by the feathered layers. When the Sanpete Stake was organized, in 1877, Bishop Canute Peterson was appointed to preside over it. Sister Peter- son was made counselor to Sister M. A. P. Hyde, the president of the Relief Societies in that stake. Her sphere of action had now become enlarged, but she found time to attend to her duties and she performed them faithfully. With her husband she often visited the different towns in the stake and she would meet with 
 the members of the various societies. Her presence was always hailed with delight by the sisters, her counsel was highly valued, and her influence for good over them was very great. Sister Peterson was a loving mother and an affectionate wife. She was the mother of nine children, of whom two daughters and four sons survive her, namely: Peter C. Canute, (dead), Sarah Ann, Parley P. Canute, W. Nels, (dead), Martha A., (dead), Herbertia W., and John. She and her husband had known each other since they were children. The love which united their hearts in early life grew stronger and stronger during forty- seven years' companionship in married life. It made them insep- arable in life, it will make them one through all eternity. They were both firm believers in all the principles of the gospel, and she sustained her husband faithfully in yielding obedience to them. Her course in all the conditions of life, and especially in the family relation, was a most judicious and exemplary one. She showed her faith in her works. In the winter of 1895-6 "Grandma" Peterson, as she was lovingly called, had a severe attack of sickness from which she never entirely recovered. She bore her suffering with saint-like fortitude and patience. Though afflicted with an incurable dis- ease she tried to keep this fact from the knowledge of her loved ones, that she might spare them the pain the discovery of this would cause them, and even under these circumstances she had comforting and encouraging words for others. Her youngest son had been called to go to Norway on a mission seeing his; mother so sick he told her he would get his mission postponed until she was better. "No, my son," said this noble woman, "go and do your duty and obey the Lord's call. If we do not meet again here on earth we shall in heaven." She lived only a little more than a week after he left. On the 20th of May, 1896, her gentle spirit took its flight from its earthly tabernacle, and re- turned to Him who gave it. Sister Peterson was an industrious and economical house- wife. It was a mystery how she accomplished so much. She never seemed hurried and she was never too busy to render a service to others. Her husband loved to hear her read, and they often found time to enjoy the papers or some good book together. She was an excellent nurse. How welcome she was in the sick- room! None could make the pillow so soft, none could make the food so palatable, and none could make the sick forget their suffering as she could. How many nights she has spent at the sick bed of others! Her husband gently remonstrating would say, "They are wearing out my Sarah." She had a genial and happy f'isposition. She would discover a bright side to all the hap])enings of life. She had studied ami learned well the lesson of acknowledging the hand of the Lord in all things. Simshine: MOTHERS Ol- OUK LEADERS L\ ISRAEL. 253 oi storm, joy or sorrow, prosperity or adversity, all inspired her with gratitude and submission to the good Father. She had a remarkable power to imbue others with the same cheerful hope- fulness which she felt. Wherever she went she filled the house with sunshine. Her life was a beautiful one. She lived for the happiness of others and in doing this she found the key to true happiness herself. Brother C.C A. Christensen, who was well acquainted with her for nearly forty years, writes to Bikiibeii: "In my opinion Sister Peterson came as near to perfection as it is possible for mortals to do. She was noble-minded, self-sacrificing, and un- selfish, free from vanity, diligent, and God-fearing, saving toward herself, but liberal to the needy; and her greatest pleasure was to do good to others and ameliorate their sufferings." The Ephraim Enterprise says: "The funeral services were held in the Tabernacle Friday, May 22, 1896. People from all parts of the State who knew and loved the deceased were present to pay their last sad tribute of respect to the departed sister. Feeling addresses were made by Apostles Francis M. Lyman and John Henry Smith and many others who spoke of the noble char- acter of the deceased, and eulogized her for the grand work she had done for humanity. The funeral procession was the largest ever seen in this city.'' The Tabernacle was tastefully decorated with white crepe and flowers. The coffin was also white and covered with flowers and other tokens of the love and respect she had won. At the foot of the coffin was an inscription encircled with beautiful flowers w^hich in a few words sums up the pretty story of her life "Faith, hope, and charity were in her soul combined. And noble deeds like lovely flowers through all her life entwined. She now has left us, but has only gone to rest, And with the Saints in Paradise is happy and is blest." SARAH ANN PETERSON LUND. The wife of President Lund. Sarah Ann Peterson-Lund, is the eldest daughter of President Canute Peterson and his wife Sarah NelsonPeterson. She was born in Lehi, January 4, 1853. Her father had left the expectant mother to go upon a mission to Scandinavia, in December. 1852. He was on the ocean, off the New Foundland coast the night of January 4. in a terrific storm, doing his strenuous part at the jiunips to prevent the dis- tressed ship from sinking. After hours of superhuman effort he was released for a little rest. Throwing himself on his bunk he fell asleep at once, and was transported on the magic carpet of dreamland to his cabin in the W^asatch mountains. He saw his 
 saw the tiny baby girl who lay v;ife in her bed of recent delivery, ucside her on the pillow, also he saw all the others in the room exactly as they were then engaged, and he lifted up his heart and rejoiced before the Lord. He wrote home the full account of this dream before ever he heard a word of news concerning the same. Sarah Peterson was the merriest, keenest witted, best loved girl in the village of Lehi. She early showed that finely balanced character which won the respect as well as the ad- miration of her associates. She inherited the quick wit of her father, the wisdom and sweetness of her moth- er's spirit, and added to it a reticence all her own. She never sought friends nor friendship for she had no need in her own home, ; her own family, and her own town she was sought by everybody else. Her in- fectious laugh, her brilliant sallies, and her instant repartee made her the sparkling center of her so- cial universe. She was married to Anthon H. Lund on the 2nd of May, 1870, and with MRS. SARAH A. PETERSON LUND, home and children there Wife of President A. H. Lund. developed a devoted con- secration of her whole powers of mind and body to husband and family. So completely has this lovely woman absorbed herself in her home, so tenderly devoted has she been to her children that she has gradually slipped out from public gaze, happy in her home seclusion, content to be the center of life to her family and inti- mate friends. Sister Lund accompanied her husband to Europe, in 1909, but suffered so much with the changing diets and ship malaise that the recollection is a nightmare rather than a joy. She rarely goes from home, an occasional visit to her family and old friends in Sanpete, breaking the sweet monotony of her busy sequestered life. When "Aunt Sanie" comes to town in Ephraim, the fatted calf is killed, and the clans gather from far and near. The heart of her husband has found so pure, so peaceful a ll^^•cn in her tender ministrations that lie too loves to be close to: MOTHERS 01' OUR LEADERS IN ISRAEL. 255 the home circle. And only their own best friends know how l)erfect is that ideal home life, how convincing its appeal, how satisfying- are its joys. A perfect housekeeper, a trained cook, and a dignified gentle lady in every sense of the word, she yet gives the wheel of merry conversation around the table or by the fireside so keen a twist, so jolly a flip, that gales of laughing punc- tuate every discussion and add zest to every recital. Withal, she has supreme native intelligence. Like her mother, she is filled with the spirit of wisdom and integrity. It is a pity that her presence is not possible in the public councils of the women of this Church. For rarely has a more gifted and abler mind been given to woman. She seldom errs in judgment, and is the soul of loyalty and discretion. She moves with a gentle dignity and speaks with a quick sympathetic responsiveness, kindling in those about her the desire to say and to do the best that in them lies. Small wonder, then, that her husband and children regard her with a devoted love and profound admiration. Her sons are well known citizens of Utah, Professor Anthon C. Lund being the famous Provo musician and leader another son being the popular; physician, Dr. H. Z. Lund; another a lawyer, H. C. Lund, and another is the Church Historian, A. William Lund; her one daughter Eva, also a musician, is very much like her mother, and is a joy to the whole family. The children of Sarah A. Lund are Anthony C. Lund, born 25th February, 1871 Henry C. Lund, ; born 13th April, 1873; Sarah H., born 19th June, 1875; Dr. Herbert Z. Lund, born 17th January, 1877; Gamite, born 19th September, 1879, d Othniel, born 27th February, 1881 A. Wil- ; ; liam, born 10th August, 1886; George Cannon, born 5th March, 1891 Eva, born 11th April, 1893. Sister Lund is loved by all who; know her, and has not an enemy in the world. Her influence over her husband has been of the best and finest type of womanly sympathy and womanly devotion. What her hands hath found to do, in her own sphere, she hath done with her might. Have you gazed on naked grandeur, where there's nothing else to gaze on. Set pieces and drop curtain scenes galore. Big mountains, heaved to heaven, which the blinding sunsets blazon, Black canyons where the rapids rip and roar? Have you seen God in his splendors, heard the text that nature renders? You'll never hear it from the family pew. The simple things, the true things, the silent men who do things, Then listen to the West it's calling you. ; SELECTED. RoBERT W. SERVICE.