A Prince of Ur. By Homespun. Up from the filthy quarters of the slave markets, in the great city of Ur, three days after Abram's arrival, the odor of living, suffering, unclean humanity mingled with the scream of a slave girl, whipped with cruel thongs to force her to silence and obedience. The steaming, crowding masses of weak and vicious men and women wept, sung, cursed, and flouted each other with true oriental volubility. • It was the noontide; the sun of the southern plains hung like a ball of glowing fire in the sapphire blue of the low hanging skies. The crowded, dome-shaped, mud-walled hovels and huts under the high south walls of the city reeked with the scum of the lowest inhabitants. "What ails the jade?" queried an effiminate patrician youth, just passing by, whose snowy mantle was swept carelessly from his arm to allow him freedom in seizing the twisted face of the slave girl that he might inspect her qualities. He did not stop there; but with the taunt of his ribald young companions who had accompanied him in idle sport down to this lower region of their beautiful city on the Shinar Plains, ringing in his ears, he flung her scanty robe from her quivering body and with a fierce grunt of dissaproval, he cried shrilly: "Naught but carrion. Feed her to the buzzards, slave-seller. Why do you exhibit such bird-meat for sale in the open market?" The slave-seller glared with impotent rage thus to have his human wares exposed to possible buyers. The livid flesh of the poor slave girl quivered between the blows of her owner and the angry leprous cancers upon her skin, which glowed with livid fires. "There is fire within as well as fury without, my lord," she screamed, in the tongue of the Nubian. "Worse feasts than my body lie in thy acrid stomach, my lord. Dost remember Zarah?" and her great yellow-white teeth snarled like an angry animal as she clutched angrily at the youth's long, white mantle to tear it from his now shaking body. "Slave — viper — toad of the Nile — let me set foot upon thee as thou hast earned." The crowd of gaudily-attired young men sought to stay his hand but he had seized the dusky slave girl and was upon her body with strangling fingers before even her master could interpose to save his chattels. "What ho — for a dirty trickster," cried the slave-seller, as 
 the furious youth crushed the life from the blackened throat of his victim, "you shall pay me thrice her value, you son of a Shemite." "Mardan," cried a young man in flowing brown robes who had pushed his way with massive shoulders into the midst of the melee. "Is this thy pastime? To consort with evil of the lowest — " and then seeing the jerking body of the slave-girl in the last throes of death, he gasped — "and to add murder to all thy bestial lusts. Oh my God, God of Heber, of Shem and of our father Noah — what are we coming to in this land of daylight crimes and midnight orgies! Nimrod may forgive you for this cruel unnecessary murder, but your God never will." "Who told thee to spy on me, thou sychophant? I am Mardan, and the son's son of thy father's father Noah, and am a son of Nimrod by adoption. My mother was an Assyrian princess. Who art thou? A reader of the stars — a maker of records — a follower of a forgotten religion. Cease thy constant preachments, or I'll serve thee as I've served this toad of the lower Nile." Mardan's face was purple with unholy passions, and he sprang boldly up to face his opponent, with flamboyant gesture, his arm raised as if to strike or crush the new opposer of his will, yet he knew full well as did Abram, that this by-play was mere bluster. The other youth, whose lion-like head was crowned with thick dark brown locks of waving beauty, threw up his face with calm courage, and something of proud contempt; there dwelt so much majesty in the stern glance that he cast down upon the slight, belligerent form of his kinsman that he looked a god amongst his mean surroundings. The narrow, dirty street was now crowded with a congested mass of blear-eyed, frowsy slaves, soldiers, thieves, professional thugs of the secret orders, and just as Mardan raised his arm to strike the newcomer, the slave-seller raised his own bludgeon to beat the murderer of his poor slave; but Mardan turned to him as quickly as a flash of forked lightning, and with two crossed fingers on his open palm, he gave a sign. The slave-seller backed from him, his lips muttering some incantations which became jibbering idiocy as he slunk away in terror from the youth who had thus cooled his fierce anger on the instant. The others of the patrician group of idlers and curiosity seekers saw a part of the play and some understood the secret sign and some only laughed in hardened glee at the rare sport of such a sight. The brown-haired prince who had seen this vicious by-play now stood with arms crossed upon his swelling breast while he said sternly to his kinsman: "Mardan. does this mean that you have joined the secret order of the Cushites?" The youth addressed was trying to adjust his disordered raiment and to push his way out of the reeking crowds who now A PRINCE OF UR. 237 surrounded the group thus strangely found in such quarters and at such a time. His face, distorted a moment since with wild anger and dastardly impulses, was now calm, as he masked his deepest emotions with an effort; then turned with some degree of calmness to his interlocutor and replied with a return of his usual oily courtesy: "Kinsman, you are not wont to pry into affairs that concern you not. What hath come to thee? Shall,1 report thee to Father Terah as a meddler and brawler?" The smooth irony in the tone stung the brown-haired man, and his fair cheek glowed with the covert taunt. But he controlled himself. By this time, several of the minions of the law were at the scene of the affray and both youths were at once the recipient of profound salaams from the dusky soldiers. "Take the body of this poor child," said the kingly Abram, "and give it burial. Here are coins with which to purchase decent burial robes. Report this deed, just as I give it to you to the captain of the South Gate. I will see him myself at the day-dawn of tomorrow and give him the verbal account, with the missive which shall be engraved for your use tonight upon tablets. Haste, for the people crowd to gaze upon the poor wretch." With silent fury, the handsome and dissolute young murderer gnashed his impotent teeth thus to see the superior homage and obedience paid to Prince Abram by both soldiers and people; a homage which his royal birth and his own secret associations and ceaseless efforts to ingratiate himself with the lords and over-lords of Assyria could never seem to buy. "Thou settest thyself up, Abram, as the keeper of the honor of Ur. We shall see what our father saith unto thee," Mardan cried. So saying, he swept his white robes over his fine young shoulders and with his followers, he managed to quit the horrid place of his recent murderous debauchery. What he lacked in physical prowess, he made up in facial symmetry. But the inherent weakness and vanity of his soul gave occasional bitterness to his bulging, blue eyes and paleness to his pasty skin. As ever, when in lustful anger, those pale blue eyes now seemed to start from their sockets in fearsome looseness, as they would drop upon his face in his transports of rage. The young prince Abram remained behind to soothe the excited crowds,, to direct the soldiers, and quiet the populace; then finally, after seeing the mangled body of the slave carried away in some order and decency, he passed hence murmuring in grieved accents: "To know that such things can happen unchecked and unquestioned inthe public streets of my beautiful Ur. Alas, what destiny are these licentious Chaldeans courting when rapine and 
 murder go unheeded on every side. It is because they scorn the truth, they trample the God Jehweh under their feet, and mock at His ordinances." He rapidly retraced his steps, leaving the lower portions of the crowded city behind him, as he sought the nearest way to his father's palace on the left of the city's principal gateways. It was past the mid-day hour, but the hot and glimmering rock paved streets were almost silent in the absence of any but laborers and soldiers, during this dreaded mid-day season. His own head ached with the pressure of the tragedy he had just witnessed, as much as through the glare of the merciless sun upon his now white-turbaned brown locks. His robe was lacking in the rich fringing and ornamentation of his fashionable companions, but there was something so majestic, so god-like in the very manner of this kingly youth that no one failed to turn and gaze after him as he swept quickly through the better streets of Ur. The blare of the silver trumpets on the towers of the great Temple of Elkanah smote his ear as he turned into the broad avenue which led into the scented gardens and terraces of those noble courts. He caught a glimpse of the white robes of his recent companions, just as they rounded the last white step which led up into the Temple terraced gardens. "From murder to feasting with the gods — " he muttered as his lips set grimly across his stern face. "What mockery and what consummate devilishness of life's best meaning do these rotten youths of Ur not develop? My God and my King — what may I do — what can I do — to stem this awful tide of wickedness." His face was quivering with impotent grief, and his heart burned like molten iron in his breast. Standing at the foot of the steps that led to the courts of wicked and idolatrous worship above, he cried aloud in the open street under the sinking sun — "God of Shem and of Noah, to Thee I dedicate my life — my body, my soul and my whole future! Here on these polluted steps I offer to the One God of the Earth my vows of eternal fidelity!" No attention was paid to his words, as many public vows were there uttered. And no answering voice from the heavens sealed his renewed covenant, but instantly there swept over his spirit a peace that stilled the raging waters of sorrow within and the light of heaven illumined his face as he slowly drew down his arms and resumed his walk eastward. (To be continued.) Genealogy. The Excursion to California. The Genealogical Society of Utah has been invited by President James A. Barr, Director of all the Congresses, to be held in San Francisco during the Panama-Pacific Exposition, to hold three sessions of the Utah Society during the last week in July, at which time there will also be held an international congress on Genealogy. The Utah Society has accepted this invitation, and they have appointed the following committee, on the California Congress: Joseph F. Smith, Jr., chairman; Joseph Christensen, Susa Young Gates, Elizabeth C. McCune, Janette A. Hyde, Jessie Penrose Jones. This Committee has met and formulated a partial program, which will be published later, and which will also be published by the Utah Society in pamphlet form, to use at the Exposition. The General Board of the Relief Society are represented on this committee, not only by Mrs. McCune and Mrs. Gates — who are members of the Board — but also by Mrs. Janette A. Hyde who, although a member of the Genealogical Society, has not been directly connected with the work of the Woman's Committee of that organization. She is, however, on the Genealogical Committee of the General Board of the Relief Society, and has been most active and useful on that committee. The Relief Society extension work will be reported in the evening session of Utah Day. at the Genealogical Congress. For that purpose, we are very anxious for a report, regarding all of the work accomplished in the various stakes, through the Genealogical Committees of the stake. This report was called for last fall, but we shall want another one sent in not later than the end of May, so that a proper report can be prepared to read in San Francisco at the Congress. Delegates will be chosen, and each stake genealogical committee will be invited to representation in the delegation which will go to San Francisco from this state. The rates will be sufficiently moderate to permit of a great many going to this Congress. *We have sufficient information to justify us in saying that $50 will be enough to pay the expenses of any reasonable delegate from this city to San Francisco and return, including a week's stop at the Fair, with board and lodging expenses included. It is hoped that President Anthon H. Lund, President Charles W. Penrose, Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Bishop Joseph Christensen, Recorder Duncan McAllister, Elder Nephi Anderson, and most of the members of the Woman's Committee will be there.