in the qualities of wool from the same fleece. The shoulders and sides furnish the best grade of wool, while that of the back is inferior. In importance, the wool industry is second only to cotton. THE TEXTILE ARTS. 233 Before the great Industrial Revolution in the eighteenth century, wool was most important, but the ease of preparation of cotton by machinery and the cheapness of production have placed it in the front rank. Considering the individual fiber, we find that wool has very important physical and chemical properties, which play a large part in determining how it is to be treated in manufacture. Chemically, wool is a protein substance, composed of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, sulphur, nitrogen, and phosphorus. In raw wool, there is a large proportion of foreign substance, dirt, and products secreted by the skin of the animal. The natural oil secreted keeps the fiber in a soft condition and must not be entirely removed. Suint or dried up perspiration is a secretion from the skin of the sheep: this material coats the fibers when they are on the back of the animal and keeps them from felting. It also keeps them soft after shearing. Strong alkali removes all oil, making the wool harsh and dry, and also destroys the fiber if the action is allowed to proceed far enough. Five per cent caustic soda dissolves wool at boiling temperature in ten minutes. This test may be used in determining the quality of a supposed woolen fabric. Wool is bleached with the fumes of sulphur or with hydrogen peroxide. The affinity of the animal fibers for dyestuffs is much greater than that of the vegetable fibers. Wool may be dyed by many different dyestuffs without difficulty and the color is quite lasting. Physically, the wool fiber is a complex arrangement of cells. An inner or medullary layer, containing the natural pigment may or may not be present; in highest fibers, pure white wool, they are lacking. The cortical or middle layer gives the fiber its strength and also absorbs dyestuffs. The outside layer consists of horny scales, generally overlapping each other, and projecting out from the surface of the fiber to a greater or less extent. This quality of the fiber gives wool its peculiar characteristic, that of felting together. These serrations on the surface of the fibers hook into each other, especially where heat and moisture are applied when the scales are more open. When dry again, they hold fast together. To this property the shrinking of wool is also due. For this reason woolen fabrics must be washed and rinsed in water of the same temperature. One should never use extremely hot water for washing woolen fabrics. Woolen materials should also be dried in the shade and pressed while slightly damp with an iron not very hot. In tensile strength and elasticity, wool fibers vary greatly. The structure of the fiber makes it elastic and also gives it strength. The kinky nature of the wool also makes it elastic. In its hygroscopic property, or power to absorb water, wool 
 stands first among the fibers, being able to absorb from thirty to fifty per cent of water without appearing wet, although the average amount of moisture absorbed is twelve to fourteen per cent. In many European markets, the price is regulated according to the amount of water the wool will absorb. The preparation of wool for the market and its manufacture is a long, intricate process, which it would be impossible even to outline in this article. Woolen fabrics enter largely into our clothing. The wonderful creations of various weaves from the woolen fibers are indispensable in making up one's wardrobe. The splendid broadcloths, suitings and fine, light weight woolen dress goods are the most popular fabrics in the market. Probably few people in active life need woolen underwear; it is often irritating and when one exercises the perspiration is not absorbed quickly enough and the skin becomes wet, a bad condition. Very young children, old people, and those who lead a sedentary life can wear woolen underwear to greater advantage because their skin is not kept warm by muscular activity. Woolen clothing is also a good protection against sudden exposure and extreme cold, but it need not be worn in direct contact with the body. Wool is the warmest fabric because it is more porous in its structure, and holds more air which is a splendid non-conductor. Sudden chilling of the body is impossible when woolen underclothing is worn, because of the fact that it gives up its moisture so slowly. The tests for the adulterations in woolen fabrics will be considered in a later article. HISTORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. The General Board of the Relief Society has decided to publish a history of the Society. This will include, not only the story of the original organization in Nauvoo and its growth and development after the pioneers came to Utah, but a brief record of each Stake organization will be included. President E. B. Wells wrote a historical sketch of the Society for Appleton's Biographical Encyclopedia, and this will form the basis of the future work. The Board has appointed Susa Young Gates as historian, and a circular letter has been sent to the Stake Presidents for data. We hope the work will be prosecuted with vigor, for it has long been needed. Most of the other auxiliary organizations have a history in print, and we rejoice that the Relief Society will now have a complete record of its many noble and praiseworthy labors. This history will be the standard and authorized record of our own Society; and as such, we bespeak for it a wide and general acceptance by officers and members of the Relief Society.