Martha Burton Cooley SARAH ELLEN RICHARDS SMITH. 
 Sarah Ellen Richards Smith In Salt Lake City, March 22, 1915, Sarah E. R. Smith died; she was a daughter of President Willard Richards, and wife of President Joseph F. Smith. Her father was with the Prophet Joseph at his martyrdom, and was afterwards counselor to his friend and first cousin, Brigham Young. His daughter Sarah was possessed of her father's modesty, integrity, and cheerfulness. She was for many years a teacher in the Relief Society of the Seventeenth ward; and so fully did she magnify that important office, that today her name is, and will be forever, a fragrant memory to all amongst whom she ministered. To be such a faithful wife, such a devoted mother, such a valiant friend, and such an unostentatious teacher in this Society, constitutes a patent of nobility that no woman may excel and few equal. She has shown much interest in later years in the temple work for the Richards and Longstroth families, and has labored in the Salt Lake Temple when her time and strength would permit in behalf of her kindred dead. The following sketch of her life is taken from advance sheets of the album of Daughters of the Utah Pioneers and Their Mothers: By Joseph F. Smith. The history of the subject of this brief little sketch will probably never be told. Or, if it should be told, it would have to be by the ready pen of the skillful writer, who, though versed in the art of recording history and making character sketches, could never actually know the facts, or so affectionately relate them as could the writer, if gifted with a ready pen. Sarah Ellen Richards Smith is the daughter of the late President Willard Richards, a beloved and trusted companion of the Prophet Joseph Smith, who stood by the Prophet in the tragic 
 hour of his martyrdom in Carthage, Illinois. Her mother was Sarah Longstroth Richards, a woman of rare beauty and spirit, who was the mother of four children, two sons and two daughters, namely: Sarah E., Willard B., Joseph S., and Pauline. Sarah Longstroth Richards died in Salt Lake City, January 28, 1858, leaving her four children to the care of her sister, (Nanny Longstroth), who was also the wife of President Willard Richards. President Richards died March 11, 1854, in Salt Lake City. Sarah Ellen was born August 25, 1850, in Salt Lake City, only about three years and a half prior to her father's death, and was but little over seven years old at the death of her mother. Father and mother having passed beyond leaving their helpless little ones to the care of their widowed aunt, in the midst of the hard times, the poverty and destitution incident to the pioneer life of those early days in Utah, subjected the children all young — and the surviving members of the family to a life of hardship that may be imagined by persons acquainted with such scenes, but cannot be told in a brief memoir like this. Sarah Ellen was the eldest of her mother's two little girls, and remained for years in the care of her mother's sister, Aunt Nanny, who also had three children of her own, while the younger girl was cared for and raised by Alice Longstroth Watt, another sister of her mother. Later Sarah Ellen took up her abode with her oldest sister, Rhoda Richards Knowlton, who resided at that time in the Nineteenth Ward. It was at the home of this sister, in 1867, that she was first introduced to the fortunate youth to whom, on March 1, 1868, she was united for time and eternity in the holy bonds of wedlock. Almost immediately after her marriage she accompanied her husband to Provo, Utah county, where he with others had been called on a mission by President Brigham Young. At that time the entire possessions of her husband, together with those of her own, were easily packed in a small wagon — hired, with a team and driver, to convey them to their destination at Provo. Here they obtained a small adobe house of one room about 10x10, where they set up housekeeping. Having no means for their support, her husband had obtained employment in a cabinet shop, owned and managed by David Cluff, who afterwards became a very dear friend. He kindly offered the husband of the subject of this sketch standing employment in his shop at thirty cents an hour, so that at any time when he was not engaged in Church duties he could go to the shop, take up his tools, and go to work, whether only for one hour or for ten hours a day. Through this means the young husband fitted up their little home with bedstead, table, chairs and other furniture, mostly of his own make, under the direction of the master workSARAH ELLEN RICHARDS SMITH. 213 man, his employer. It is needless at this writing to give further account of their sojourn in Provo, at the end of which time, the object of their mission there having been accomplished, they were honorably released to return to Salt Lake City. On February 5, 1869, her first beautiful little baby girl was born. It has been said that her mother possessed rare beauty and spirit. It may be further said in all modesty that all the beauty and spirit of her beloved mother, and even greater charms, were bequeathed to her daughter. Their temporal circumstances began to improve, and by dint of hard work, prudence and economy, although passing through many hard times and trying scenes, they became, by the blessings of God, very comfortably, though never luxuriantly, supplied with the comforts of life. In the spring of 1877 she accompanied her husband on his third mission to Great Britain, to which he was sent, for the second time, to take the presidency thereof. It was with the understanding, as expressly stated by President Brigham Young, that this mission would not terminate under five years, and it was with his permission that Sister Smith accompanied her husband and took with her their little son, Joseph Richards, then four years old. However, on account of the death of President Young in August, 1877, they were released and returned home that fall. During the years 1897 and 1898 Sister Smith passed through a most trying period of sickness, very narrowly escaping death, and while slowly recovering from her lingering illness, on January 8, 1899, her husband started with her on a visit to the Sandwich islands. The sea voyage to and from Honolulu, and her brief sojourn in the delightful climate of those beautiful isles did much to accelerate her restoration to health. She returned home March 5, 1899. Sincehealth she has been active in the Woman's Relief Society work of the Church in the ward in which she lives, and never has she aimlessly idled away a moment of her precious life and time. Her mind and hands are ever diligent in the performance of some duty, or some commendable and worthy task. The character of Sister Sarah E. Smith is at once strong and well controlled. There is a quiet power about her spirit that manifests itself to all who come into her presence. .But with that power she unites the gentle tact of a true woman. So easy, so guileless so cheerful is her deportment that her company is eagerly sought by those who know her best. Her cheery laugh and her determined optimism, make her world a very beautiful place to live in. If one were to name the predominating trait of her character it would probably be her exquisite sense of order. The sensitive refinement of her soul best expresses itself in the dainty appointments of every material thing about her. So pronounced is 
 this trait that it radiates from both body and spirit like the delicate perfume of some lovely flower. United to that refinement of cleanliness isan indomitable energy which carries her through every task with rigid discipline. And yet, as has been said, the sweetness and true charity of her soul softens any asperity which might otherwise gather about such a character. For she is lovingly charitable. Living in a home where many individualities meet and mingle, no greater tribute to her high nobility and her deep spirited culture could be paid than to name the simple fact that out of all her honored husband's family there could be found no single wife or child who had aught but loving words of praise and esteem for beloved their ness could be "Aunt Sarah." What greater proof of true loveliness could be adduced? Sister Smith has not found it possible to get out of her home for many public duties. She has nestled her brood so closely about her knees that her own hearthstone has been at once their sole refuge and her one altar. Yet in the few public positions which she has been persuaded to hold, noticeably in the office of counselor to Mrs. Annie Hyde during the first years of the organization of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, Sister Smith proved herself adequate to every duty and responsibility. As a hostess she is thoughtful, gracious, discriminating and solicitous. Her table, when she entertains, is spread with the rich bounties of life. Her tact puts every guest at ease, while the purity of her character would prevent anything coarse or common from prevailing in her presence. This tribute would be incomplete if there was no mention made of the tender consideration which this good wife accords to her busy and burdened companion. Without trace of noisy assertiveness, she yet adapts herself so pleasantly to all outer conditions that her presence soon becomes a veritable part of her surroundings. With it all, she makes the welfare of her husband and the happiness of her children at once her delight if not an important part of her religion. "The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her." Sarah Ellen Richards was a beautiful, faithful and noble girl. She has been a most beloved and cherished wife, a wise, careful, loving mother, a. genuine home-maker, and the mother of eleven children, in whom no parents on earth were ever more blessed or more happy. For more than forty-three years she has shed forth ever increasing joy and happiness upon the life of her husband, her home and family; and her children and her children's children, to the latest time, will joyfully call her blessed. SARAH ELLEN RICHARDS SMITH. 215