A Loving Tribute to Sarah Ellen Richards Smith. By Julina Lambson Smith. "Not dead but sleeping," and sweet is thy memory to me, Aunt Sarah, as are the recollections of our associations through the 48 years that we have journeyed together always sharing each other's joys, loves and sorrows. Mere girls, we were, when we started life together. I the mother of one little one, when two years after my marriage "Papa" brought you home his wife. Then came a call for "Papa" to move to Provo. Having the responsibility of my home and baby, you went with him, remaining there six months, during which time he traveled almost constantly in the ministry. How happy I was when you both returned! You making my home yours, until together we had prepared your home for you — separate apartments under the same roof. A few years together, Joseph, you and I, and then again our family was increased, the home made larger and Aunt Edna came, to make a triangle of happiness with our husband as the center controlling bond of love. My large dining-room was always the personal property and common gathering place of all. Even now I can hear the laughter of our children as they played about us before being kissed, and tucked in their beds. There, too, I can see the evening picture of three tired but happy mothers, often busy with kneeless stockings, seatless trousers or other articles of clothing needing buttons or stitches; or with, perhaps, something good to read or ideas to exchange. As often as possible our papa was with us but oftener we three were alone, for we were the wives of a soldier of the truth whose armor was always on. If those old walls could speak they would tell of some of the happiest hours of our lives. Eleven children called you mother. Eleven was my number, too. Four boys and seven girls for each. While to Aunt Edna was given ten — evenly divided. No wonder the recollections of the "Old Home" are associated with children's voices! No wonder the names of "Papa" and "Mama" instead of those more dignified are familiar to us! After twenty-six years under the same roof, though it had been enlarged from time to time, the "Old Home" became too small, so it was left to and mine, and new homes were erected for you and Aunt Edna. The family triangle was changed into a star, our babies grew to man and womanhood, our hair turned gray and still we were not separated until — to satisfy public 
 opinion— our husband and father was separated from us and our lives were changed. This was the greatest trial of all, but I suppose such happiness could not last forever. Though you have left us sorrowing I know your five precious ones, Aunt Edna's four, and my one who preceded you, are rejoicing" in this reunion. As we stood by each other to assist and welcome the new-born, so we stood side by side when the angel of death visited our home. Your place is vacant now. Aunt Sarah, but memory is sweet. Our love has grown stronger with the passing years and today I feel your absence as keenly as if you were my own sister — my own flesh and blood. I am looking forward with joy to the happy reunion which will come when we, who remain for a season, will join you on the other side; for all the bliss that ever comes to earthly human homes has been ours and perfect happiness will be ours in eternity. We miss you tonight. Aunt Sarah, We miss you at noon, and at morn Our eyes are heavy, our hearts are sad. The companion we loved is gone. Yet a voice of sweet comfort whispers — "Lift up thine eyes! Weep not! The sister thou lov'st is smiling on thee. Thou shalt not be forgot.'' , A WORD TO THE WISE The General Insurance Committee wish to make one point clear to all our workers in the Relief Society. The Insurance Plan which has been adopted and approved by our leaders is in the nature of a privilege rather than a duty. It is an opportunity for the women of this Church to be protected, which has advantages of which only those who are converted may understand the value and importance. We have prepared the plan as carefully as we may, and are very glad to find the response increasing from the ranks of our sisters. If it could be possible to have all of our 10,000 teachers insured, think of the blessing it would be to every Society in the Church. Those who have charge of this Committee at Headquarters have no financial interest in this matter, as regards payment or wages; it is only a realization of the convenience that can be derived from habits of saving, and from protection of missionary and burial expenses that has induced us to push this matter in the Society. History of Weber Stake Relief Society (Historical Sketch of the First Stake Relief Society in the Church.) The Ladies' Relief Society of Ogden was first organized in the spring of 1855. The need of such a society being very apparent, a number of the leading ladies of the city met and with the assistance of the presiding authorities, President Lorin Farr and counselors and Bishop James Browning, effected an organization, with Mrs. Palmer, President; Martha Knight and Abigail Abbott, counselors; Mary W. Brown, secretary; Phoebe Brown, treasurer. Among the teachers and members were Keziah Davis, Esther Rapor, Mary Ann Yearsley, Mary Black, Harriet Critchlow, Marcia Allen, Ann Glasgow, Lydia Brown, Charilla Browning, Alice Hill and Ellen Davis, some of whom are still living and actively engaged in Society work. And no doubt there are others in our midst who also belonged to the Society whose names we have been unable to get. Although the records have been lost we feel assured of the value and quality of their labors. The work of the Relief Society, whenever or wherever it is called into existence, is to feed the hungry, to clothe the naked, to visit and comfort the sick, to care for the dead, to reclaim the erring, to bind up the broken-hearted — in short, to assist in every good work. In consequence of the Move south, in 1858, the Society was disorganized and remained so for several years after the return of the people to their homes. It was again organized by Sister Eliza R. Snow, December 16, 1867, Mrs. Mary West, president Nancy Farr and Harriet C. Brown, counselors; Louise Hopkins, secretary; Mary Ann West, treasurer. President Lorin Farr, Bishop Chauncey W. West, and other brethren, were present and assisted in the work of organizing. For nearly three years Sister West presided over the Society, being much respected and loved by the sisters, who, by their works as well as by their faith and prayers, sustained her in her noble endeavors to perform faithfully the work which her office enjoined upon her. Her labors were crowned with success, and the Society prospered exceedingly with her at its head. Among the many interesting occasions connected with the Relief Society in which she participated was a mass meeting held by the ladies of Ogden in the tabernacle, March 17, 1870, at which meeting she was chosen, by unanimous vote, to preside. After stating the object of the meeting she gave briefly her sentiments 
 in regard to unwise legislation, protesting against the Cullom Bill, and defending plural marriage. May 24, 1869, the Ladies' Co-operative Mercantile and Millinery Institution of Ogden (an outgrowth of the Relief Society) was organized, with Sister West as president. Here she found a new field of labor. But by the united efforts of the members of the Society and of the people in general, throughout Weber County, together with the assistance of her husband, Bishop Chauncey W. West, and that of Apostle F. D. Richards, who kindly gave their time and the benefit of their superior wisdom and experience, a building was erected, a large amount of stock subscribed and business corresponding to the name of the institution was established and successfully carried on. Sister West retained this position, also that of President of the Relief Society, ever presiding with characteristic dignity, and wisely directing the affairs of both associations, until suddenly removed by the hand of death. This sad event occurred August 27th, 1870. Her sudden departure was no doubt hastened by the great affliction occasioned by the loss of her husband, who died a short time before, and to whom she was devotedly attached. But though taken from our midst, her influence for good still remains, and those who were favored and blessed in being associated with her, while regretting her loss, remember with pleasure the labors of love to which her kind heart and charitable disposition ever prompted her. The Society felt, also, that by the death of Bishop West they had lost a staunch friend, a wise counselor and a hearty co-worker in all their undertakings. In his office as Bishop he was actuated by a spirit of extended benevolence and a kind consideration for those who appealed to him for favors or assistance. This brief tribute to the memory of Brother and Sister West we feel is due to them as an expression of our appreciation of their labors. The Society being disorganized by the circumstance of Sister West's death, was again reorganized October 27, 1870, Apostle F. D. Richards and Bishop L. J. Herrick assisting, with Harriet C. Brown, president; Martha Bingham and Sarah A. Herrick, counselors; Aemlia M. Frodsham, secretary; Roseltha Canfield, treasurer. Under the guidance of these ladies, the Society continued in the good work already commenced, until August 8, 1872, when Sister Brown, having been released by her own urgent request, Sister Jane S. Richards was chosen President by the unanimous vote of the Society. She chose for counselors, Harriet C. Brown and Sarah A. Herrick. Amelia M. Fordsham and Roseltha Canfield were sustained as secretary and treasurer. On the 22nd of the same month President Jane S. Richards and counselors were blessed under the hands of Apostle Richards HISTORY OF WEBER STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY. 
 JANE S. RICKTARDS. and Bishop Herrick to labor not only in the Relief Society of Ogden, but also to visit and counsel the ward societies throughout Weber County, which had been organized from time to time. Sister Richards felt to shrink from the responsibility thus placed upon her, having had very little experience in Relief Society work, and her health being much impaired by a long and severe illness. But Sister Eliza R. Snow promised her that if she would accept the position she should have health and be enabled to perform every duty. The sisters also encouraged her by their faith and earnest support. It was with many misgivings, however, that she entered upon the duties of her office. Through the blessings of the Lord and her untiring and energetic labors the Society awakened into new life, and although nearly forty years 
 have elapsed since that time, the interest then aroused has steadily increased and extended. The Society has grown in importance, and to a great extent its labors have come to be appreciated. This has been accomplished not only by the united efforts of the sisters in carrying out her counsels, but by their unselfishness and perseverance in striving to perform acceptably the many and ofttimes trying labors expected of them. A wide sphere of usefulness is open to the Relief Society, but its first and most important work has ever been to assist in providing for the poor and caring for the sick. And the aim of all business enterprises entered into by the Society has been to procure means by which to increase their power for doing good in that direction. A Relief Society Millinery Store was built on ground leased for that purpose and dedicated by President Brigham Young. By means of generous donations the house was paid for and the millinery business established and successfully conducted for eight years, under the general supervision of the presidency of the Society. In 1882, the lease for the ground having expired, and those interested deciding to discontinue the business, the store with its fixtures was sold and the proceeds divided among the four societies of the city. (Separate societies having been organized in each ward in the year 1879). Sister Richards was thus, in a measure, released from the increasing cares and labors of the Society, and was afforded a better opportunity of attending to the duties of her calling as President of the Central Board of the Relief Societies of Weber County. The Society also interested itself in the culture of silk. An organization was formed with Mrs. Mary Kay as President and Mary E. Kay as Secretary. Hundreds of trees were planted throughout the city and county, under the direction of the presidency of the various Relief Societies, and much time and labor expended, also some means. The result showing that the only requisite wanting to make this industry a success is capital. The storing of wheat, according to suggestions from President Young, forms an interesting feature in the