[Vol7 | November 1920 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lesson Suggestions]

GUIDE LESSONS 677 i.e., use of water or foods which have been infected either by patients or carriers of disease. Water is contaminated by seepage or drainage waters carrying human excreta;  that is one reason why wells are undesirable as sources of drinking water, especially in communities where sewage is simply dumped out on the ground untreated. A few years ago during typhoid epidemics in a small town in northern Utah, the water of almost every well in town was found to contain the typhoid bacillis. This germ will live in water two weeks or more, and may be frozen in ice without being destroyed. Foods commonly contaminated are (a) milk, through being handled either by a diseased person or by a carrier;  a number of disease germs, among them those of typhoid and of diphtheria, multiply m milk, hence the greater safety in using only pasteurized or sterilized milk;  (b) shell fish grown in water in which sewage is discharged;  (c) fruits and vegetables, contaminated through being handled by carriers of disease or exposed to flies. All fruits and vegetables are safer as food when cooked;  those to be eaten uncooked, such as berries, celery, radishes, should be purchased only from markets which protect them from human contact and from flies. It sometimes happens that foods of various kinds are contaminated in the kitchen by the unclean hands of cooks who are disease carriers. Ten per cent of typhoid patients discharge the typhoid bacillis in the feces weeks after recovery from the disease;  four per cent become permanent carriers. Several typhoid epidemics in New York City have been traced to one Mary Mallon, a cook by occupation, and a permanent carrier of the disease. (3) Insects. Flies carry numerous diseases direct from one person to another, e.g., various eye infections, typhoid fever, dysentery, bowel troubles of children, etc. Dr. Rosenan demonstrated that infantile paralysis is spread by the bite of the stable fly, which, closely resembles the house fly, but has a larger beak. Both malaria and yellow fever are spread by means of mosquito bites;  bubonic plague by the bite of a flea. It is probable that extent of contact, which modern science concludes is the main mode of infection, and carriers, explain the theory of air borne diseases. All the evidence seems against the spreading of disease in quiet air;  bits of sputum or of feces may, however, be carried with dust in strong winds. Most disease germs die as soon as they become thoroughly dry, which explains why there is less danger of infection from "fomites" (objects which have been handled by a diseased person, books, etc.) than was formerly believed. There is ' CA abo n 4> u 0 0)2© 5 u II 2 0 oJ 0 GUIDE LESSONS 679 danger that long haired cats and dogs which allow themselves to be petted by everybody may carry infection into their homes. The accompanying chart forms a means of ready reference for information concerning some common communicable diseases. While tuberculosis and pneumonia are communicable diseases they are not highly contagious. Nearly everyone carries the germs which cause these diseases, and succumbs to them when in a "rundown" condition, hence these diseases are often silitis spoken also comes of as in those of "lowered vital resistance." To this class. Communicable disease is preventable disease, and the means of prevention are, (1) Personal hygiene;  (2) Sanitation;  (3) Isolatiori, which includes, (a) excluding everyone from the patient's room except the nurse;  (b) boiling all dishes used in the sick room;  (c) sterilizing clothing, bed linen, etc., in lysol or carbolic acid solution, then boiling where possible;  (d) sterilizing all excreta by mixing thoroughly with bleaching powder, lime, or carbolic acid;  (e) isolation of the nurse also except where she has changed her outer clothing at least, and has sterilized her hands in a lysol solution. After recovery of the patient the room must be thoroughly cleaned. — carpets, rugs, mattresses, and other bedding which cannot be boiled should be sent to the steam cleaner;  floors, and wood work washed with a lysol solution; walls recalsomined or papered Gaseous fumigation may have a value, but should not take the place of thorough cleanliness. 4. Vaccination, in case of diseases where such treatment has been found effective. Our most urgent needs in connection with disease prevention are, (1) greater information among laymen as to cause, nature of, and prevention of disease;  also something of its danger so that mothers will not ignorantly expose their children to infection in the belief that it is better to "have it over with while the children are small." (2) More efficient health organizations, equipped with sufficient funds to do effective work. (3) Greater co-operation between health officers and the public, (a) a campaign of education on the part of health officers, (b) reporting of cases by the public;  disease is a disgrace and a crime only when it is the result of uncleanliness or carelessness, and when attempts are made to conceal it from proper authority, thus endangering the life and health of neighbors;  (c) strict observance by the public of healthy, sanitary, and quarantine regulations. 
 QUESTIONS. 1. In what ways are diseases transmitted? Explain why flies and mosquitoes are dangerous. 2. Why are wells undesirable sources of drinking water? 3. What foods commonly become infected and how? Why is it safer to use only pasteurized or sterilized milk? 4. How may various kinds of foods become infected in home kitchens? 5. What is the attitude of modern science toward the theory of "air borne" disease? 6. What are "fomites"? Why are they less dangerous than formerly supposed? 7. What is the nature of tuberculosis, pneumonia, and tonsilitis? 8. How may communicable diseases be prevented? 9. What does isolation of a patient include? 10. Describe the cleaning of a patient's room after his recovery from a communicable disease. 11. What are some of our most urgent needs in disease prevention? 12. How may public health officers and the public cooperate inprevention of disease? 13. When is disease a disgrace and a crime? Suggested Readings. "Sources and Modes of Infection" — Chapin. "Preventive Medicine" — Rosenan. (Apply at public libraries and at college and university libraries.)