EDITORIAL Entered as second-clasi matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto  Charity Never Faileth THE GEMERAL BOARD Mm. Emmeline B. Whlls  Pr"ident Mks. Claissa S. Williams F>"t Couniclor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mks. Amy Brown I^yman General becretary LiRi. Sosa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Sarah McLelland Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Tulia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Edna May Davis Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE E(]itor Sdsa Young GatkS Businesi 'Manager '.*.' AmyJanette Brown A Lyman Hyde Assistant Manager Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. V. APRIL, 1918. No. 4 DEMOCRACY MUST BE AL\DE SAFE FOR THE WORLD. Much attention has been given to the wellThe World turned phrase "The world must be made and Desafe for democracy." Yet the counter mocracy. phrase carries with it a deeper meaning, a more far-reaching suggestion: ''Democracy must be made safe for the world." Men airily assume that a world can be redeemed through the operation of a republican form of government. They speculate learnedly on the efifect of this form of democracy, that mode of socialism. When I read their groping attempts to solve the riddle of the universe with a political panacea. I am reminded of a tiny niece of mine who loved to sit on her grandfather's knee in the soft summer twilight. "Don't you hear the frogs talk, Lucy?" asked her anxious grandmother. "They're saying, 'Go to bed, Lucy, go to bed, go to bed.' " "Let them talk," calmly responded the three-year-old. Christian Scientists, New Thought people. The World and divers sincere yet mistaken essayists and Love. and preachers tell us that "Love, just love" will bring about fhe world's reformation and redemption. Others build great schools, endow research col
 leges; while the cry of "save the babies" echoes through the land. Love, democracy, education of the masses, slum-settlements, control of the w^ill, "war and kultur," all these various schemes are put forth, cried aloud in the market-place and finally fought for and died for. Will it all, or any of it, avail? It has not availed  any nor all of these ideals,  so far in the world's then? history, although tried honestly, and sincerely. What Make democracy safe for the world by The Only preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ, and Safe Govteaching men to obey its laws and precepts, ernment. All forms of government not founded and carried forward through the inspiration of God will crumble and perish. They have, they will. Love will do much, most of all to redeem the world  but love is a law and its functions and expressions must be governed by law. or it sinks to the level of blind instinct or unreasoning passion. Education? Civilization? When have either preserved a nation or a people who associated these great forces with internal corruption and shameless vice? Answer, historian. Then would you say that only a handful of Straight is people away off in the Rocky Mountains, the Gate hated and feared as they are by the rest of and Narrow the world  are these "Mormons," then, the the Way. only people who possess the key of the world riddle? Can only they make democracy safe for the world? Oh, narrow, bigoted assumption, you mav reply. Yet, not I, but Christ it was who said "Straight is the gate and narrow the way;" and further, "few there be that find it." The way is open to all, the key hangs invitingly out of Father's welcoming door. No man will make this world safe for democracy, nor democracy safe for this world. That is the task, the burden laid upon Christ's shoulders. And he holds the key  the key of the priesthood after His own order, to administer in the ordinances of His House. Come, buy and partake! Get oil in your lamps! Have you lamps? Thev are free to all who stretch forth the hand and who are willing to pay the price. Ah, the price! CORRECTION.  The poem in the January number accredited to Annie D. Palmer was written by Mrs. Euphrasia Cox Day. Will our contributors kindly sign every contribution sent in and address all such letters to the Editor? Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in May. BOOK OF MORMON LESSON. A LAND OF PROMISE. "And the Lord would not suffer that they should stop beyoml the sea in the wilderness, but he would that they should come forth even unto the land of promise, which was choice above all other lands, which the Lord God had preserved for a righteous people" (Ether 2:7). "And inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall prosper, and shall be led to a land of promise; yea, even a land which I have prepared for you; yea, a land which is choice above all other lands" (I Nephi 2:20). From the very beginning. no doubt, God designed that th:s land should be a land of promise to those who dwell thereon. It could only fail when peoples came under condemnation, as did the Lamanites. From the midst of turmoil and unrighteousness, such as icharacterized the building and the builders of the Tower of Babel Jared and his brother came forth. From a heaven-condemned city, Lehi and his company found safety beyond the sea; for this land not only saved them from impending woes, left behind, but it yielded of its riches, and of a truth became a land of promise unto them. Students of the Book of Mormon have marveled that in so short a time, with so small a beginning, peoples should have grown to be so mighty and so prosperous. The native richness of this land, once Earth's Eden, no doubt, had much to do with that result. Again we learn from the Book of Mormon that in due course of time, multitudes of the Gentiles should come to this land, unto whom it should be a land of promise. America has from the first symbolized gold; the tons of gold used to embellish the ceiling of one of the churches of Rome is eloquent testimony of the fact that the Spaniards found gold here. After the coming of the men who sought for treasure, came those 
 who sought religious and poHtical freedom. Both found in time the thing they were in quest of; so that, from the beginning America has given those things that do support both the body and the spirit. Before the discovery of America by Cohimbus very Httle was known of the new world. To be sure, the ancients possessed some maps that go to show that they knew of the existence of America, but the middle ages appear to have lost this knowledge. Let us turn for a few moments to some of the passages in the Book of Mormon that relate to the Gentiles and this land. "And it came to pass that I beheld many multitudes of the Gentiles upon the land of promise; and I beheld the wrath of God that it was upon the seed of my brethren: and they were scattered before the Gentiles and were smitten" (I Nephi 13:14). "Behold, this land, saith God, shall be a land of thine inheritance, and the Gentiles shall be blessed upon the land" (II Nephi 10:10). In considering this land as it affects the Gentiles, we have a flood-tide of material at close range. "And all people shall flow unto it," saith the Hebrew prophet of holy writ. Witness the fulfilment of these words; for to think of New York, Chicago, and others of our large cities is to think of the Jews, the Italians, the Austrians, the Armenians, and other peoples of southern Europe and Asia. To think of Massachusetts, perhaps, makes us think of the British; surely New York and Pennsylvania, of the Dutch; Wisconsin and Minnesota, of the German and the Scandinavian; North Dakota, of the Russian and Icelandic people; Louisiana, of the French, and California, of the Spanish, Japanese and Chinese. Truly, the noted Jewish playwright and novelist, Israel Zangwill, speaks with knowledge when he calls America the "Melting Pot" of all nations. And this thing, apparent in the nation, is duplicated in every state  Utah being a marvelous example. It would be difficult to conceive of a more perfect tribute to this land of ours than that found in Mary Antin's Promised Land. In the preface to this truly wonderful book, its gifted author tells us that she would hardly have written the book did she not know that she is the mouthpiece of an entire group, the Russian Jew. In the light of God's word is not the title of her book The Promised Land truly significant? Not less remarkable perhaps are the tributes of Dr. Ed. A. Steiner, whose book, The Trail of the Immigrant, makes him an undoubted authority on the immigrant question. Very fittingly might he call his lecture of this season. "The Promised Land." Dr. Steiner was born in the Carpathian mountains. Budapest, the capital of the Hungarian kingdom, was the nearest GUIDE LESSONS. 235 large city to the little village of his birth. One day he watched a soldier who had lost one leg alight from the buss that brought all new comers to the town. This man was born in the same little town, but had gone to America years before. He had lost his leg in the Civil war, and had come back home to spend the remainder of his life, supported as he was by a pension from "Uncle Sam." "None of his relatives were alive, so he came to our home," said Dr. Steiner. At the head of his bed was a small portrait of Abraham Lincoln, about whom he liked to talk, and as often as the village people chanced his way, he told them of the great American father, with the kindly face who desired freedom for all men. As if to mock Maximilian, who was the tool of Napoleon III of France, and Francis Joseph, his brother, late Emperor of Austria, who was the tool of the German Kaiser, to the end of threatening free government in America, in the very heart of the city of Budapest stands a life-sized statue of George Washington, a symbol of life, freedom and hope to the people who daily pass and gaze up at it "A hand and face that truly beckons to a promised land," said Dr. Steiner. Then he added, that in the various cities of Europe are six such statues of the father of this country, each one telling of this better land, where life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness are among the blessings the government seeks to extend to those who dwell under the folds of the Stars and Stripes. At the present time, all eyes are turned to America. "'America is the hope of the world," said Francis Nielson, long time member of the British Parliament, in a recent address. As in the beginning the old world stretches out her hands to the new for material and spiritual help; for just as earnestly and as helplessly as the warring nations have turned to America for food, just so earnestly and helplessly will they turn to her for a knowledge of that better, freer life vouchsafed by a republican form of government. Then, when the guns shall cease to roar, and the. statesmen shall sit at the council board of peace, America, they say, shall be most potent for the future destiny of men. In many ways, some seen and others yet unseen, America will be an ensign to the nations for larger and better things. Surely the word of God fails not  this is the promised land. The Spaniard coming to America was in quest of gold; the Puritan landing on Plymouth Rock and the Huguenot in South Carolina, sought first religious liberty, and afterwards political freedom. The Latter-day Saint convert, turning towards this goodly land, receives in a majority of instances all these gifts in one. If it is a land of promise to him who can partake of one or 
 two great gifts, how much more is it a land of promise to him who. embracing the gospel of Jesus Christ, knows that there and there alone is the permanent way to salvation  material, political and spiritual. May the day hasten when the big world that looks to us now tor food, and for the making of a world safe for democracy, shall also realize that in this land, choice above all other lands, God's Church is established, led by those having the holy priesthood, which power shall again redeem the earth and make it an Eden as at first. QUESTIONS. 1. To what three groups of people has the Lord called the Western world, the land of promise? 2. How does the history of the Jaredites prove that it was a land of promise to the Xephites? 3. How was it a land of promise first to the Spaniards, secondly to the Puritans? 4. How has it been a land of promise to all peoples of the earth since the signing of the Declaration of Independence? 5. How is it a land of promise to the Russian Jew. of whom Mary Antin is spokesman? 6. How, a promised land to Dr. Edward Steiner and the group of village boys who saw the portrait of Abraham Lincoln and heard the story of his life? 7. How is it a land of promise to the warring nations of Europe today? 8. Show from anything that you may know, or may have read, that the old world depends upon the new for suggestions for larger liberty and national stability after the war? 9. To what people has America filled the largest and fullest hopes of the soul? Why? 10. Show that the gospel of Jesus Christ can provide all those other things for which America has been sought, and in addition the possibilities of eternal life to all who will follow its divine precepts. GUIDE LESSONS. 
 Work and Business. Second Week in May. LESSON in. Genealogy. Third Week in May. f WHERE THE RACES SETTLED IN EUROPE. Roman Empire. The powerful armies of Rome, united with their superior civiHzation, first conquered and afterwards controlled Europe from the beginning of the Christian Era to 400 A. D. Then the Teutons  Goths, Vandals, Burgundians and Lombards invaded both Roman and Celtic territory. In 410, Alaric, a Gothic king sacked Rome. Shortly after the Goths passed over into Gaul (France) and Spain. In 451, Attila, king of the Huns, was beaten by the combined Franks, Goths and Romans. This battle decided Europe's continued Christianity, and made her independent of Asiatic Huns and African hordes. Gaul or France. Gaul was settled up by the Franks, a Teutonic tribe, but not until 450 A. D. was it a distinct nation. Clovis' ruled Gaul (France) and Spain. Then came the Lombards (Teutons) up from Italy, and wars ensued with Roman armies as well as barbarian Teutons of other tribes. Finally, in 800, Charles the Great, or Charlemagne, appeared upon the scene, and he gradually conquered all of central Europe. His kingdom therefore embraced all Germany, France, with a large part of Italy and Spain. He blended Roman and Teutonic principles, choosing the best of both. He was a great and wise ruler, king and emperor. After his death, the empire was sadly broken up. forming West and East Frankish realms, or France and Germany as we now know them. The history of European state systems here began. Spain. Mohammedanism became a rising southern European power, beginning in 622 A. D., when occurred the Hegira or fl-ght of Mohammed from Mecca to Medina. The Arabs overran Asia Minor, conquered Egypt and the whole of northern Africa and parts of Europe. The invasion of the Arabs or Saracens over the southern part of Europe, especially Spain, continued for seven hundred years with intermittent success. In 732 A. D. they were conquered by Charles Martel and driven out of Gaul. They remained in Spain, however, till the siege of Grenada, in 
 1494, when they were driven out by Ferdinand and Isabella. These monarchs were the patrons of Christopher Columbus. Tiirkcx. In the East, the Arabs were conquered ami were confined by the tenth century to Turkey in Europe. In the eleventh century, their power was overthrown by the Tartars or Turks. In 1072 the great Turkish conquerer Alp Arslan died, and his four.sons quarreled and split up his kingdom into what is now known as Persia, Syria, Rouen, all Asia Minor. The Turks had gained possession" of Jerusalem which the Arabs had conquered in 627 under Omar; the Turks have remained its rulers intermittently till today, when English arms have practically conquered Palestine. Germany. The Teutonic tribes of Germany, rude barbaric peoples, fought with neighboring tribes all over central Europe for centuries previous to the reign of the great monarch Charlemagne. Christianity became popular and modified tribal prejudices while Charlemagne's wise educational policy united the Saxons and Germans as one people. After his death, feudalism sprang up all over Europe and petty dukedoms arose everywhere. Wars multiplied between France and Germany, and kings ruled wisely or foolishly. Like France. Germany was a kingdom, but its king was also king of Italy. During the reign of Otto, in 966, the Germans began to feel the necessity for a national life. Their emperors spent more time in Rome than in Germany, and after a long succession of kings, Henry IV, in 1106, was compelled to abdicate. The crusaders followed. Then came Frederick the Great, 1155, and his prowess established Germany as an independent kingdom. Scandinavia. The history of the three northern kingdoms, Sweden, Norway and Denmark, is hidden in the mists of tradition and sagas. Denmark was named for Dan Mykillati or "Dan the Famous." The.date of his reign is unknown. A long line of kings followed to Stoerkodder, the Norse Hercules, believed to have reigned about 600. Towards the end of the ninth century, the many petty rulers of the island were united under Gorm the Old who reigned between A. D. 860 and 936. By this time the Norsemen had become a terror to all the coasts of Europe. Gorm himself was a fierce old pirate, once descending upon Aixla-Chapelle where he plundered Charlemagne's tomb. Gorm's son Harold accepted Christianity and died in battle in 985. Sweyn, Harold's son, invaded England in 994 and conquered a large part of that kingdom. He died in 1014. Sweyn 's sons, Harold and Canute, divided the kingdom, Harold reigning in Denmark and Canute going over to England where he became one of the most famous of English kings.