Class leaders are always in demand, and these women will no doubt find opportunity for further service in the Society or on committees planning for the special sewing or cultural features. Yugoslavia (Continued from page 366) by Svetozar Perebichevich, brilliant Croatian philosopher and social revolutionist, who writes as follows: Democracy cannot feel secure in any one country until a democratic front (including peasants, workers and genuine intelligensia who will wage a determined fight against reaction) is created in the whole world, Democracies cannot survive the chaos which prevails on this earth today if they remain isolated from one another. It should be clear to everyone at this time that the ideal of world peace and general disarmament cannot be realized until genuine democracy is established throughout the world. It is futile to speak about these great ideas as long as individual countries, ever great countries, are ruled by open or concealed dictatorships which represent the spirit of imperialism, militarism, megalomania, and chauvinism and which by their very structure and mentality carry within themselves the seeds of future conflicts and wars.
Democracy by its very existence removes the sources of conflicts among nations....
Democracy provides a solution not only for our own national and state problem but also for the great problem of world peace and consolidation. New Honor Comes to Tabernacle Choir (Continued from page 367) choral groups in existence. Each Sunday for more than fourteen years it has presented to a nation-wide audience an outstanding program.
Assisted by master organists, and with its membership of more than three hundred spending many hours gratuitously each week in rehearsal, it is small wonder that this organization has won acclaim and is today setting a high standard for Church and choral music of the country. The music broadcast by the Tabernacle choir and organ each Sunday is essentially religious, and is selected from the world's great music. The "Spoken Word" presents ethical principles that are fundamentally sound.
When this type of program can receive one of radio's highest awards, there is renewed hope for the sanity and spirituality of the nation.
HOUSEKEEPING ACTIVITIES 391
Time, Energy, and Fatigue Costs of Housekeeping Activities (Continued from page 383) in the way of progress. One writer has said that "efficiency ceases when fatigue begins." PHYSIOLOGISTS agree that fatigue resulting from muscular activity is due to the inability of the body fluids to maintain normal com-- position during the time when activity is speeded up.
Muscles consume fuel and give out energy. A substance known as glycogen is the energy-producing material in the muscle.
This substance is formed by the muscle tissue from sugar products brought to it by the blood.
When muscular activity occurs, the glycogen unites with the oxygen in the blood stream, freeing energy and forming lactic acid and carbon dioxide?both waste products which interfere with continued muscular activity. The blood then brings oxygen from the lungs to the muscle cells; and the lactic acid is removed by the oxidation and conversion into glycogen.
Thus the oxygen carried by the blood from the lungs to the muscle cells helps in the removal of the lactic acid in the muscles.
During moderate muscular work the above operation proceeds rather normally with little or no fatigue resulting. But if the work is strenuous or prolonged, the oxygen cannot be supplied fast enough to reconvert all the lactic acid formed in the muscle cells.
When this happens fatigue or a diminished capacity for work results. It is necessary, therefore, to allow time for the muscles to recuperate. The development of fatigue during or near the end of the day is unavoidable for most people. Nevertheless, according to Gilbreth, fatigue ought to be overcome within a twenty-four hour period. If fatigue mounts too early in the day, it is considered something of a danger signal; it indicates an unbalance of work and rest.
Indecision and dislike for a task bring on fatigue more quickly than if one has developed skill and the right attitude toward the job one has to do.
Skill always lessens muscular strain.
Fatigue or tiredness may disappear completely as interest is developed in the task.
Improved working conditions result in the saving of time and energy.
Places for tools and materials should be made easily accessible. In order to maintain a good posture, comfortable working heights for all kitchen work surfaces should be adapted to the height of the worker using them.
Good posture is the position which requires the expenditure of the least amount of energy.
Time to keep oneself physically fit is essential for greater service.
This includes mental and emotional health as well as bodily well-being.
Establish a few routines to obviate conscious effort.
Revamp your plans whenever necessary for greater efficiency. As you work persistently to acquire habits of efficient use of time and energy, try to guide others into similar ways. "By losing present time, we lose all time."? John Ray. (Continued on page 416) Sketch Of My Life - Eliza R. Snow Smith CHAPTER V EFORE we left Winter Quarters, a Committee, appointed for the purpose, inspected the provisions of each family, in order to ascertain that all were provided with at least a moderate competency of three-fourths pound of fine flour per day, for grown persons, and one-half pound for children?a precautionary measure to prevent famishing. A portion of the "Mormon Battalion," having been disbanded on the Pacific coast, destitute of pay for their services, joined us before Spring, and we cheerfully divided our "rations" of flour with them, which put some of us on scant allowance.
Soon after our arrival, a tall Liberty-pole was erected, and from its summit, the "Stars and Stripes" seemed to float with, if possible, more significance than they were wont on eastern breezes. Many, whose circumstances would not admit of coming the first year, sent seeds for fruit trees by those who came; and as the season advanced, it was highly gratifying to see the multitudes of sprouts starting up in newborn nurseries in various directions. But alas! A tragic fate awaited the luxuriant growth of those trees in embryo.
Precisely corresponding with descriptions of ancient locust raids on the Eastern Continent, the crickets of enormous size, came down from the mountains, moving in a solid phalanx taking everything before them, while desolation followed, insomuch that Page 392 had not a host of sea-gulls (which we considered a special Providence) come to the rescue, all of our crops would have been destroyed.
Those gulls in large swarms, went through the invading army, swallowing the crickets wherever they went?as their stomachs filled, they vomited and filled again, until the premises were entirely cleared. 'The drouth of the summer prevented its full growth and the wheat left in the ground after the cricket ravages, was, much of it too short to cut, and was pulled. In the first winter a company of men was sent from the valley to California for seeds and cuttings.
They arrived home early in May, and I gave 75 cents for 6 or 7 little potatoes, all of which I could hold in one hand. I let them out to raise, and in the fall, my half was a heaping half-bushel of beautiful, well developed potatoes. On the 20th Sept. 1848
Prest. Young arrived, and with him a large company of Saints, which produced a scene of general joy. Our public meetings were all held in the "Lord's parlor'--i.e. Out of doors, where was plenty of room for the new-comers, with ? sufficient ground floor to sit or stand upon, with a rustic elevated Stand for the speaker, and as a rallying point for the audience. Quite an improvement on the first year's experience. When our place of gathering was by the side of a wheat stack. SKETCH OF my LIFE ?After a Painting by H. L. A. Culmer 393 FIRST GLIMPSE OF "THE VALLEY" From the Summit of Big Mountain A neat brick building, called "Council House" was early completed: the lower story was occupied as its name denotes, and the upper, year, representatives of the people met in Convention and formed what "Provisional Government of the State of Deseret? A Constitution was adopted and Delegates sent to Washington, asking admission into the Union. The people elected a Governor, Judges and members for the Legislature?all of whom, discharged the duties of their several offices, without Pay. The General Assembly adopted the following rule?"All non-punctual Officers and members shall be subject to fine." And sufficient means was thus realized to furnish fuel, light, and brooms. IN the autumn of 1850
Congress passed an Act by which we were organized into the Territory of Utah. Millard Fillmore then President of the U. S., appointed Brigham Young, who previous to this, was Governor of the State of Deseret. Governor of Utah Territory. He was truly the choice of the people, but the wishes of the people were not consulted in choosing the other officers: with the exception of Marshall, all were appointed and sent; and most of them, especially