The Official Round Table Clarissa Smith Williams and Amy Brown Lyman
======================================================================

OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE Conducted by Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. GENERAL NEWS ITEMS. In common with all stake and ward officers the General Board of the Relief Society will be happy indeed to meet once again around our Official Table to discuss problems, weigh events, propose measures to improve and constantly accelerate the work of this great organization. It may be that now the war is practically over, there will be somewhat of a relaxation along Relief Society lines, as well as in other forms of social life in the world at large. Yet, after all, we know that the source of life and growth is at the root of this organization, and we do not need constant excitement nor the stimulus of popular favor to keep us alive and growing. The General Board unites with all the stake boards, and they with the ward boards, in loving congratulations to the members of the Society in the resumption of our activities during the year 1919. After spending six weeks in the Denver City Charity Office, Mrs. Lyman has returned to Salt Lake City. During this time she was studying methods of relief and family rehabilitation, and doing practical work along these lines. In connection with a Red Cross Home Service course taken a year ago, Mrs. Lyman did her field work in the Denver City Charity Office, and became so much impressed with the efficacy of the work done there that she went back this year to supplement her former work and study. In this office every effort is put forth to study carefully each family situation with a view of removing the causes which have produced dependency and its handicaps, and then of giving the family a fair opportunity and as far as possible an equal chance in life with those families which are more fortunate. If a family can be helped to recover itself and be made self-supporting without money relief, all the better. Any self-respecting family or individual in distress prefers to be THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 99 given assistance that will preclude money relief, if possible, because there is a strength in every individual and in every family, which comes from the feeling of being independent. To give relief without knowing the family situation is regarded as very dangerous to the family. No modern physician would think of prescribing the same remedy for all ailments, and only after a careful diagnosis does he prescribe at all. In helping families along charity lines a careful going into the situation is considered just as necessary as is the diagnosis of the physician. Health, sanitation, employment, education, recreation, and religion are all important factors in rehabilitating a family. In many instances these are more important than money relief. However, whenever relief is really necessary, it is given adequately but under close supervision. Another feature in the Denver office is the strictly confidential nature of the work. No worker is considered properly equipped who cannot absolutely keep the confidence of the clients. Whenever relief is really necessary it is given adequately under close supervision. Before returning home, Mrs. Lyman, in company with Mrs. Ruth May Fox, of the General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A., attended the meeting of the board of directors of the National Council of Women, at St. Louis. The National Council of Women is the American branch of the International Council of Women. On account of the influenza epidemic the meetings were held at the home of the President, Mrs. Philip N. Moore. The business of the meeting included recommendations of the chairman of standing and special committees, budgets for the chairman, place for the next biennial meeting, plans for work in which the National Council is interested, and the selection of delegates to attend the International Council of Women, which is to be held in Christiania, Norway, October, 1-919. Four new organizations were admitted to membership as follows: the Woodman Circle, the National League of Women Workers, the Children of American Loyalty League, and the National Women's Republic Association. This makes twenty-eight organizations now belonging to the National Council. It was decided to hold the next biennial meeting of the Council in St. Louis, in November or December, 1919. It was also decided that delegates be sent to the International meeting in Christiania, the delegates to be chosen by the executive committee. It was recommended that an International Committee be formed in each nation to be composed of all the members of the National Council, and individuals interested in the work. A great many matters regarding peace and reconstruction work were brought up, but in view of the unsettled conditions in 100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the world at present, it was felt that the time was not ripe for a definite reconstruction program to be outlined. However, a reconstruction committee was appointed to which all matters will be referred during the year, the committee to confer with the president and make known to the affiliated organizations from time to time all matters of consideration. Madam St. Croix, a member of the National Council of France, was in attendance at the meetings and gave a very interesting report of the work of the French women. She stated that the National Council in France is made up of one hundred and fifty organizations, and during the war they have worked as one unit. In all the war and reconstruction work the women have been recognized by being placed on all committees where matters relating to the welfare of women and children have been considered. Nineteen delegates were in attendance at the meetings and Mrs. Moore gave a luncheon at her home in their honor. The subscriptions to the Magazine are coming in with their usual force and frequency at this crowded period of Magazine activity. Our managers, Mrs. Jannette A. Hyde and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, decided to publish a few extra numbers of the January Magazine, as the "flu" conditions have made agents' work so difficult and impracticable that we dread to disappoint our numerous readers with failure to receive the January number. It might be added, however, that if any of you are not able to.subscribe in January, it is quite convenient to subscribe in any month following, and as the subscription is for one year, your name will be carried over into the month in which you subscribe, giving you twelve numbers in all. Stamps of large denominations are not available for exchange. Send money, checks, or P. O. orders. A call has reached this office from the missions for help in learning how to make use of genealogical books and genealogical libraries. In response to this desire the Genealogical Committee of the General Board have prepared a set of twelve lessons under the following titles: "Genealogy  A Foundation Stone of Temple Work;" "The Study of Genealogy;" "The Utah Genealogical Library is the Clearing House for Latter-day Saint Students;" "Libraries;" "Genealogical Libraries;" "Indexes and Indexing;" "Genealogical Books Found in Libraries  European and American;" "Necessary Materials;" "Transcribing Information in Note Books;" "Following a Surname Through a Library;" and "Correspondence asFirst Aid to the Genealogist." These will be furnished to such of the mission presidents as may desire to use them. THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. 101 These lessons would not supercede the regular genealogical lessons, but could be used in connection with them. Many of our Saints living in great cities like New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington and Chicago, are not informed concerning the vast stores of genealogical information which are found in these cities Even if they know of the libraries they do not know how to make the best use of them, nor how to begin or to pursue a search for genealogical information when they do reach the library. These lessons are designed to assist such inquirers. The birthday of our President, Emmeline B. Wells, occurs in this month, and we all join in congratulations and loving wishes for our honored President. Our General Treasurer reports that our Societies everywhere have been as loyal and active in the matter of dues during this past year as in any year in our history. This is wonderful when we consider the many claims made upon all of us through the distressing period of war through which this country has passed. The sisters of the Relief Society, however, have not faltered in their allegiance to each other, to the Society, and to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We all congratulate each other on this happy testimonial of our mutual worth and integrity. NOTES FROM THE FIELD.  Reorganisations.  Young stake. In October, 1918, the Young stake was reorganized. Sister Mary M. Halls, of Mancos, Colo., who had served faithfully in the capacity of president for several years was honorably released, and Mrs. Florence Dean, of Redmesa, Colo., was appointed to take her position. Mrs. Dean's counselors are: Mrs. Clara M. Taylor and Mrs. Clair Roberts. The Stake Secretary is Mrs. Minnie Wheeler. The other officers and board members have not been selected. Eastern States Mission.  Miss Elizabeth Thomas, who for the past year has presided over the Relief Society work of the Eastern States mission, was honorably released from service in November to return to her home. Miss Marie Haselman, formerly a very able worker in the Bureau of Information, in Salt Lake City, was appointed to take her place. Miss Haselman is capable and earnest and will no doubt succeed in keeping the Relief Society work in the Eastern States mission up to its present high standard of efficiency. The New York City Relief Society was reorganized in November, and the following officers appointed: Mrs. Addie Cannon 102 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Howells, president; Mrs. T. A. Beal, and Mrs. Loraine Fletcher, counselors; Miss Lucile Midgley, secretary and treasurer; and Mrs. Marie Sheranean, class leader. A Relief Society was organized in Portland, Maine, on the 1st of December. Miss Jeanette Hatch is the president; Miss Cora M. Burk and Miss Etta M. Drowns are the counselors; Miss Marion McDuff is the secretary and treasurer; Miss Athaline Northrey, organist; and Miss Irene Edmunds, class leader. A Society has also been organized in New Bedford, Mass., with Miss Ruth Glazier as president. Northern States Mission.  When twelve thousand earnest Red Cross workers marched down Michigan Boulevard, Chicago, AUXILIARY 615, AT GEN. JOHN B. LOGAN MONUMENT, GRANT PARK, CHICAGO. and into the famous U. S. War Exposition, in honor of their national chairman, a company which attracted considerable attention 103 THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE. was Auxiliary 615, representing the National Women's Relief Society of Chicago. The Northern States mission has twenty-four other Relief Society auxiliaries, all actively engaged in Red Cross work. N. W. R. S. MARCHING INTO WAR EXPOSITION. Capitol Heights, Md.  Mrs. Lillian Babcock of Capitol Heights, Md., eight miles from Washington, D. C., writes the office that a Relief Society has recently been organized at that place. A new church has been erected, and under the direction of Presiding Elder Milton Babcock, various activities are being organized. Sandwich Islands.  A Relief Society has recently been organized in Wailuku, Maui, with twenty-seven members, who are meeting regularly. In addition, these members are meeting Thursdays to do Red Cross work.