Editorial: Motives or Basis of Judgment 
Guide Lessons for December 

An Exact Model Your Own Figure

Make your own Dress Form according to methods taught by the Agricultural Colleges and U. S. Dept. Of Agricultural Cooperating

Contains all the necessary material
Price $1.00 postage fully prepaidTHE SUM OF LIFE
At times my life appears to be so futile; So different from what once I had desired, When in those days gone by with rose-hued day dreams, Of fame to come, my youthful soul was fired.
I thought to do so much, but in the planning Forgot the round of duties large and small, The daily grind, the tasks that bring no glory. Which rise before me as a circling wall.
Perhaps this life is like a wondrous fabric, Of intricate yet gorgeous-flower design, Each one must do a portion of the weaving, According to the plan of Will divine.
Then, 'tis for me to mar not this vast pattern, Nor doubt Eternal wisdom of the plan, Until at length, in deep relief completed, With eyes made bright life's picture I will scan.
Helen Kimball Orgill.
Graduation Exercises of the Relief Society Nurse Class Amy Brown Lyman. The graduation exercises of the Relief Society Nurse Class were especially interesting this year, for this is the first class which has had opportunity to receive practical training and experience in a hospital. The women of this class will be known as Relief Society Nurses' Aids. The exercises were held in the parlors of the Relief Society on the evening of Monday, August 1, when the rooms were filled to overcrowding with the friends and admirers of the class and of the Relief Society. The members of the graduating class looked very charming in their blue and white striped gowns and snowy white bibs and aprons, as they sat in a semi-circle in the front of the hall, and later, as they received very graciously and gratefully their certificates from the General President of the Relief Society. President Clarissa S. Williams, who for years has been chairman of the Relief Society Nurse School, presided, and the following program was carried out: Hymn, 'Come, come ye Saints;"' opening prayer, Mrs. Elizabeth Crismon; solo, (selected), Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward; report, Mrs. Thea Drake; class song, class of '21; address, Superintendent B. F. Grant; "Has our course been worth while?" Mrs. Annie Nielson; duet, Mrs. M. Fisher and Miss V. Pratt; address, Dr. Samuel H. Allen; awarding of certifcates to graduates, President Clarissa S. Williams; benediction, President Rudger Clawson. In awarding the certificates to the class, President Williams reviewed briefly the history of nursing in the Relief Society. Yearly, for many years, classes similar to this, although usually much larger, have completed the course offered by the Relief 558 Society, and have gone to their home wards where they have been a real blessing in the local communities. From the very beginning the General Board has made every effort to give the members of each nurse class an opportunity for practical experience in nursing as well as theory, and various arrangements have been made to this end. Some of the local doctors have from time to time permitted members of the class to assist in cases of illness, and the city board of health at one time allowed members of the class to accompany graduate nurses upon their visits to the sick. A room was finally fitted up in the Bishop's Building where practical demonstrations in nursing were carried on for the benefit of the class. But the class of 1921 is the first Relief Society class which has had the opportunity of going into a real hospital and of caring for the sick there, under the supervision cf trained nurses. When the General Board first made application to the L. D. S. Hospital for this institution to permit the Relief Society Class to enter there for practical training and experience, there was grave doubt in the minds of hospital authorities that-this special privilege could be granted the Relief Society without interfering seriously with the standards of the hospital training school and with the hospital itself. And indeed, there was cause for misgivings on the part of the authorities of the institution, for the granting of this request, they realized, was nothing more nor less than the introduction into the hospital of a one year course in nursing. It was finally decided that a Relief Society class might enter as a sort of experiment to be discontinued at the end of a year if the plan failed to work. The class entered, the members have made good, and the hospital has now decided that the Relief Society Hospital Course may continue. The members of the class have been housed in a cottage on the hospital grounds and have been under the charge of Mrs. Thea Drake, R. N., who has been their house mother, class teacher, and training supervisor. For the unprecedented opportunity given the Relief Society in its nursing program, the General Board is most grateful to the authorities of the hospital, to Superintendent B. F. Grant, who has so kindly permitted the innovation and put up with all of the inconveniences incident to it, and to Mrs. Thea Drake, hospital graduate nurse, who was willing to undertake the supervision of the work and to test out the experiment. President Williams explained that one of the requirements in the Relief Society Nurse School has always been that a certain specified number of days be given the society by the members of the class, in charity nursing, and she said that the members of this class have signed contracts to give in their home wards RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS oD) thirty days' service, or one hundred twenty-four hour service, whichever will be the most convenient and needed. In her address, Mrs. Drake spoke of her class as pioneers, for indeed this is the first class in the Relief Society in the state of Utah, or anywhere else, so far as we know, which has been permitted to enter an accredited hospital for a one-year course in nurses' aids work. There were many misgivings in the beginning as to how the Relief Society class would fit into the institution, and there have been some misunderstandings and griefs; but the experiment has been a success and the class has made good in both class work and nursing service. The class began with seventeen. During the year two of these married and three were compelled to give up the work on account of poor health, so that the class now numbers only twelve. The class has had some handicaps through illness. Nine operations have been performed upon its members in the L. D. S. Hospital, and in addition, five members have been treated in the hospital clinic. Because of loss of time through illness, some of the members have yet some time to make up. One member finished her service on August 1, two on August 2, and the remainder of the class will be through within the next two months. One member of the class has decided to enter the regular hospital training school for a three-year course. She will transfer her credits, for which she will be allowed six months' time. Superintendent B. F. Grant expressed his great pleasure in attending the exercises, and in having the opportunity to express his appreciation for the splendid work done by the Relief Society class. He felt, indeed, that this is a pioneer class for, so far as he knows, it is the first class for nurse attendants or aids which has ever been allowed training in an accredited hospital. The innovation or experiment has been fraught with difficulties but it has been a success, and the hospital is now willing to enter a second class for the same sort of work. Instead of taking a class of 17 or 20 at one time, the hospital has decided to accept for this course 10 or 12 nurses on the 15th of August of each year, and a similar number on the 15th of February following. In the opinion of Superintendent Grant there is a real need for graded nurses. The supply of hospital graduate nurses is inadequate and even if it were not, there are many people who are unable to pay for the services of a registered nurse. There seems therefore to be a place for nurses' aids to go into the homes of the middle classes and take care of ordinary ills. Superintendent Grant expressed the hope that the members of this class would never give the impression that they are graduate nurses. This, he considered, would be a discourtesy not only to the L. D. S. Hospital but to the Relief Society. There is a place in the community for the 560 ability, Pita] course This Service js greatly 4PPreciated by the hospital those who have applied for the work this Septemrse, ij Members of the class, and Particularly by those who are mothers and who left their little children to the care of Others, Difficulties " ae, who has ever been with them to Sympathize with them in their Sorrows and Sickness, to encourage them with their Work, and RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS ° 561 death rate among child-bearing women. Dr. Allen recommended visiting nurses throughout the Church, one or more for each ward. To produce this army of workers, the president of each ward Relief Society, under the direction of the bishop, might, from time to time, call women on missions of from one to three years to attend hospital training schools to prepare for the work. Upon returning to the communities, hospital graduate nurses and nurses' aids might be given regular salaries by the Relief Society organization, and in turn serve wherever sent by the organization. A hospital graduate nurse, acting as a visiting nurse, would be able, not only to make many calls personally in a day, but she would be able to supervise aids and others who are caring for the sick, and direct all the nursing service in the ward. Her services would be available to all and nominal prices charged for her visits. The Relief Society would make these charges and apply such receipts on her salary. Charity service would be given those in need. In times of epidemics, a visiting nurse in each ward would be invaluable. Nurses' aids would fit into this scheme admirably as assistants to the graduate nurses in charge. Instructions by these nurses in regularly formed clinics would also be a part of the scheme and would help materially in educating the public along health lines. Such a plan as this, cr one similar to this, would in a few years not only result in adequate nursing service, but in a great constructive health crusade, which would reduce the death rate and raise health standards throughcut the Church. Dr. Allen commended the members of the class for their excellent work. He characterized them as self-sacrificing, intelligent and most faithful workers. He congratulaed the Relief Society on arranging for their course, and the hospital authorities for permitting the aids' course, which, while it is a pioneer movement and a radical movement, is also a forward-looking movement. Following are the names and addresses of the class: