[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: Aunt Esther’s Sweetheart | Author: Unknown]

	AUNT ESTHER’S SWEETHEART.
			(CONCLUDED.)
	Meantime both Aunt Esther and Alice
wrote to Harry of the religion they had em-
braced; they were full of zeal and desirous
that he should become a convert. But he
was at that time under quite a different in-
fluence; and his answers to their letters were

[Column 2]
very unsatisfactory; but they did not lose
courage. Alice was using all her eloquence
at home to persuade Richard Ashburn to
join the Church of Latter-day Saints, and
her efforts were not in vain. Before many
days she had the satisfaction of knowing
that he had esqoused the same religious
faith.
	Of all those who had been converted
Aunt Esther was really the most zealous
and content. Heretofore she had not been
religiously inclined, but she had had many
msigivings with regard to a step she ever
contemplated taking, though she had main-
tained her reputation and escaped almost
miraculously from falling into disgrace.
She knew, as no one else did, or could
know, how she had been tempted to leave
her husband’s house forever, and go into a
foreign land with the man she loved, with
all the fervor of youthful attachment, but
whom her parents had not allowed her to
marry. He had come to her at a time when
she had felt the most desperate, had read
her heart, when her whole soul revolted
against the bondage she was undergoing,
and urged her to fly with him; and she had
even tried to persuade herself that the step
Sidney Manning entreated her to take, was
no more a sin in the sight of heaven, than
the domestic life she was compelled to live,
with the husband to whom she was bound
by marriage vows. Some good angel stood
by her then, and at the last moment, as it
were, when all had been cautiously arranged
and her lover was waiting in anxious ex-
pectancy, she finally resolved to preserve her
honor and that of her husband, and remain
true to her womanhood, and to her mar-
riage vows and suffer wrong, rather than
commit an act that would forever debar her
from associations of the friends she loved;
and an error, too, which to her now thor-
oughly awakened consciousness of its gross
wickedness, she felt sure would end in de-
spair and hopeless degradation. And as a
last resort she sent her faithful maid alone,
in the dead silence of the night, to tell her
old sweetheart that she could not consent
to go with him, and he must never attempt
to see her again. Poor Polly, she never
dared to tell her mistress all the dreadful
things Sidney Manning said, there in the
darkness, when she delivered her message.
And so that part of the romance ended, and
he went far away, and finally secured a
position in a mercantile house in India, and
amassed wealth, for it was the lack of riches
that had deprived him of his darling Esther,
and he was determined to accumulate means
enough to make her a home suited to her
circumstances, should she ever be free again
to choose for herself. And he would wait
until that time came, always believing in
her affection and trusting in his knowledge
of her character. He esteemed her far
more for the sacrifice she made in giving
him up, when in his mistaken sense of right
he would have stolen another man’s wife.
She had saved herself and him, too, and
when far away from her in a foreign land,
and meditating upon her loveliness of char-

[Column 3]
acter, he could appreciate the strength and
fortitude she manifested in withstanding
the great temptation.
	When Sidney Manning heard of the sud-
den death of Esther’s husband, he had mas-
tered his feelings to such an extent that he
did not rejoice; and he waited on, wonder-
ing if she would make any sign to him, any
recognition of her first promise that she had
never redeemed. But she did not, she was
too proud for that, and the impulsive girl
had changed into a well-developed woman.
So after a time he wrote, and Esther Dan-
forth took months to deliberate before re-
plying; and when she did write, was care-
ful not to make any sort of compromise.
Had it not been for the thrilling episode in
their lives, that came near ending in a trag-
edy, she would have acted differently; now
she was doubly reserved. Bye and bye, he
wrote again, then she said, “Wait,” and he
had waited long enough, he thought, for her,
and too long, by far, for him.
	One morning at breakfast time, Uncle
William handed Aunt Esther a letter, in
Polly’s handwriting, which gave her no con-
cern, but as she opened it, another letter fell
out upon the table. Alice caught it up think-
ing it might be for her, but Esther had seen
the name, and knew instantly that it was
from her old sweetheart.
	“Excuse me, Aunt Esther,” said Alice, “it
is for you after all, but such a peculiar hand,
looks like foreign paper; but there’s no post-
mark. There must be visitors at the
Wren’s Nest—what does Polly say?”
	There was no help for it, Aunt Esther
must answer, her face was flushing she
knew and, trying to be as calm as possible,
turning to her sister, who was eyeing her
very closely, she stammered out, “Sidney—
Mr. Manning—I mean, he’s returned from
abroad.”
	“And pray who is Sidney—Mr. Manning,
Auntie?”
	Before she could reply, Aunt Jane had
spoken for her,
	“Your Aunt Esther’s old sweetheart
Alice!”
	Mrs. Danforth protested and blushed a
deeper crimson; but the secret was out nev-
ertheless, and Alice was delighted.
	“O, that’s what Polly meant when she
said you had a romance in your life.”
	“What can Polly know of my sister’s
sweetheart? She was nothing but a child
when this affair with Sidney Manning oc-
curred, that was why we all called him
Esther’s sweetheart. Father and mother
didn’t approve of children being engaged,
and broke the matter off, and my sister was
sent away from home to cure her. But I
always had an idea it was a kind of hope-
less case, for he never married, at least we
never heard of it, and as for Esther, she is
blushing to the very tips of her ears, for all
the world like a young girl of 16, and she’s
six and thirty.”
	“Isn’t it enough to make any one blush,
to have such things repeated in one’s pres-
ence. I wish Sidney Manning had stayed
in India.”


[Column 1]
	“In India, Auntie, well if that isn’t fine, a
rich uncle from India for the holidays after
all. Can’t you invite him to come here,
Aunt Jane?”
	That must be as my sister Esther says,”
she replied. “I should like it very much.”
	“He is not your uncle, Alice,” said Aunt
Esther, “and it’s very improper for you to
call him so, and your Aunt Jane’s house is
full of visitors already.”
	At this Alice subsided for a few moments,
but there was very little breakfast eaten by
any of the ladies that morning. Aunt Jane
recalled one remembrance after another, of
the days when Esther was a child, and it
was all very interesting for the young folks.
Alice declared it was just what she always
had thought, from fragments Polly had
dropped now and then, though how she had
found it out no one could tell, and now it
had come out accidentally and just what
she had begged Aunt Esther to tell her
about herself.
	The party Aunt Jane had intended to give
in honor of her visitors, had been postponed
from one time to another on some pretext,
and the night before the arrival of Aunt
Esther’s queer letter, the host and hostess
had come to the conclusion it should come
off on Christmas eve; it was to have been
discussed at the breakfast table when all the
family were together, but the unfortunate
letter had put it entirely out of Aunt Jane’s
mind, and upon rising from the table Aunt
Esther had gone to her room, presumably
to read her letter from home. Poor Aunt
Esther, here was another dilemma. Polly
wrote that Mr. Manning had come uncere-
moniously to the Wren’s Nest, and finding
Mrs. Danforth absent, had inquired of her
whether her mistress had received a foreign
letter recently; and she had answered truth-
fully that she had; then he wanted to know
if any message had been left for him, and
she told him there was none. Next, when
she had gone, and when she was expected
home. She had gone to M—, in Frank-
lin County, to her sister’s, Mrs. Wetherell,
and as to her return, it was indefinite. Then
Polly said, “he asked me to let him write a
letter, and would I write one and enclose it
in mine, and I hope, my dear mistress, you
will not be offended, for he seemed so sad
an disappointed that you were not here,”
and having ,finished Polly’s letter, which
contained little else, Esther Danforth broke
the seal of the other. There is always a
sort of charm about a pretty seal and it adds
to the interest of a letter’s contents. But
this letter was a “love letter,” indeed. He
accused her of running away from him and
warned her that he should follow her to the
ends of the earth, if need be: reminded her
of walks and rambles they had taken to-
gether in the beautiful past, and of the
kisses he had stolen from her sweet lips.
He seemed to have forgotten that she was
a matronly woman now, and he no longer
the young lover, nor the “little sweetheart.”
The longer Esther stayed and pondered
over the letter, the more bewildered she
grew. She could not see him there, it would
be worse than being at home; there, so many
would not be looking on.
	She had half a mind to pack her trunk
and go back, but that seemed impracticable;
and wavering between this and that, she
knelt and prayed for wisdom. A sweet
peace came with the prayer and she joined
the family group in the sitting room. Alice
explained, as soon as her aunt came in:

[Column 2]
	“Aunt Jane will write for Mr. Manning
to come this very day—but even then he
can’t reach here for the party.”
	“Have you any objections, Esther?” her
sister inquired.
	“Just as you please, Jane, but remember
this is your invitation, not mine,” said
Esther emphatically. The letter was dis-
patched, and Alice was eager to see what
this old sweetheart of her auntie’s was like.
and asked numerous questions; but as no
one knew much more than she did, she did
not get much of an idea. Anut Jane had said
though, that to the best of her recollection
he had a very fine figure and a handsome
face.
	Christmas eve came, and the house was
profusely decorated, for the party was to
be quite an elaborate affair for the country
town, and everyone seemed in the gayest of
spirits, except Aunt Esther, who went from
room to room, seemingly without any object
in view. Later on in the evening, when all
the guests had arrived, and the refreshments
had been served and abundantly partaken
of, a sharp ring from the old-fashioned
knocker, vibrated through the house, and
startled the company. “Who can it be at
this late hour?” said two or three in a
breath but they had not long to wait. A
stranger muffled to the chin in furs, and
covered with snow, stood in the hallway;
and in every adjacent doorway, the guests
crowded to see the newcomer. Mr. Weth-
erell guesed who he was and took him into
his, room, a sort of office, or what now-a-
days would be styled, a den. Some ex-
planations were made by the stranger and
he excused himself for being muffled, by
saying he had been so long accustomed to
a hot climate. Mr. Wetherell treated his
guest to refreshments and after partaking
coffee, etc., he was introduced to the com-
pany assembled there, as an old-time friend
of the hostess. This was a great relief to
Aunt Esther when she heard of it, after-
wards; as she was suffering, meantime, not
knowing what excuse had been made for
his unexpected appearance.
	Mr. Manning was very affable and digni-
fied in manner, and a perfect master of lan-
guage in conversation. His extensive travels
abroad had given him ease and grace in
society, and he took “the castle by storm,”
so to speak. The girls were charmed with
him and the young men were gracious and
deferential. Little he cared for all the re-
spect lavished upon him, from these warm-
hearted country people; he had only eyes
and ears for one, his lost Esther. And she
was nowhere to be seen, she had fled to her
room at the sound of his voice; she could
not meet him in the presence of others.
Finally the music ceased, and the dancers
stepped from the scene of the festivity and
rejoicing, and the family gathered around
the great blazing fire. The night was cold,
and the wind howled outside, and yet within
there was peace and hospitality and good
cheer. When the young people had left the
room, Sidney Manning ventured to inquire
of Jane, whom he had known well twenty
years ago, where her sister Mrs. Danforth
was keeping herself, while all the jollifica-
tion was going on.
	“She is very nervous tonight,” Jane re-
plied, “and extremely sensitive. She cannot
endure much excitement and retired to her
room sometime since.”
	“Indeed,” replied the gentleman, “and
shall I not be able to see her until tomorrow?

[Column 3]
and I have come so far across the sea, and
up here into these rocky hills, for that one
purpose. I must see her for a few mo-
ments; she must not refuse me will you in-
tercede for me Jane? You, who have lived
such peaceful, quiet lives, know little of the
turbulent restlessness of one tossed upon the
fateful sea of uncertainty at one moment
ready to sink, and then a fair sail in sight,
taking courage once more.”
	Mrs. Wetherell’s heart was touched with
compassion, and she promised to try and
persuade Esther to meet him that night, or
morning, for it was now past midnight.
Jane was as good as her word. She en-
treated Esther to see him for a few minutes,
if the hour was even so late; it would be a
pleasure for him.
	“Jane,” said the woman in pitying tones,
“you are mistaken; he will be disappointed;
he thinks to find me the romantic girl he left
when he went away. I am old beyond my
years, and I shall not please his fastidious
taste. It will only be a trial for me, that I
shrink from enduring.”
	“Oh, Esther, do go and let him see that
you are not afraid to meet him.”
	“Yes, Jane; I will go,” said Esther, “for I
am not a moral coward.” And she went
down, as calm and placid as a summer
morning.
	Mr. and Mrs. Wetherell left them to meet
alone, and Aunt Esther walked quietly into
the great, old-fashioned parlor to meet her
fate—her old sweetheart, expecting, she
knew not what sort of reception. But he,
hearing her soft footfall, turned quickly and
reached out his strong arms and clasped her
to his bosom, ere she had time to elude his
grasp. Neither spoke for some minutes, for
their silence was more eloquent than speech,
however daintily fashioned. At last Sidney
Manning repeated her name, but she an-
swered not. “Esther,” said he again, “we
meet once more, and we are both free. I
have waited long for this meeting; have you
nothing to say to me after all these long
years of constancy?”
	Esther felt there was a barrier, even now,
but she could not introduce the subject to-
night—it was too late to enter upon untrod-
den ground. So she only said, in the most
indifferent tone, “You must be very weary,
and my brother-in-law is waiting to show,
you to your room; tomorrow we shall have
time to renew our acquaintance; good night,
Sidney,” and she hurried from the room.
He stood by the mantel and leaned his head
upon his hand in a maze of bewilderment.
He was as much in doubt whether she loved
him or not as any young, inexperienced boy
could be. And yet she did love him pas-
sionately, but she kept the secret in her own
soul, woman-like, determined to prove him,
though she might stake her all of earthly
happiness and find herself the loser.
	During the following day and days after,
Mr. Wetherell opened up conversation with
his guest upon “Mormonism,” of which he
confessed he had never heard before, nor of
Joseph Smith, nor the Book of Mormon; he
was indifferent, he acknowledged, to all re-
ligions. He had busied himself with men,
money and schemes to accumulate wealth
while abroad, and left religion for an after
consideration. Such is the way of the world
in all ages, except in rare instances.
	Esther heard his remarks without com-
ment, but feared a wide gulf was opening
between them, which it would be difficult to
bridge; and she became more and more


[Column 1]
reticent in conversing with him. At present
Sidney Manning was bent on making love
to Esther—the young and fascinating
widow—and she was mistaken when she
told her sister on his arrival that he would
be disappointed in her appearance. Far
from it; he thought her more charming than
in her younger days, if possible.
	Alice’s courtship was progressing favor-
ably. All seemed to be smooth sailing in
their direction. Not so with the others.
Obstacles kept looming up, and Sidney
thought there was no chance at all for him.
Esther’s time was occupied with many calls
and visits. A tender word now and then
when he could meet her in the hallway
alone, was about the extent of his advan-
tages. He knew that some business had to
be attended to soon in Boston, and thought
he would go and transact it while Esther
was so much engaged, and visit her at her
own home when she returned, when he ar-
dently hoped he would be the chief attrac-
tion. The Wetherells persuaded him to re-
main until after New Year’s, and hoping
he might secure an interview on that aus-
picious day, he consented to stay until that
time. He was disappointed, however, the
house was full of callers and some friends
had been invited to dine, and the day sped
swiftly by, and he had decided to leave early
the next morning. He invited Richard Ash-
burn to accompany him, thinking it would
hurry Alice and her aunt home a few days
sooner.
	Mrs. Danforth had intended remaining
much longer, but as her niece had made up
her mind to get married in the coming
spring, she decided to go home and set about
preparations, though she did not take Sid-
ney’s case into consideration as an incentive
to her going.
	The visit had not only been a pleasant but
profitable one, and Aunt Esther realized
how great a blessing had come to her,
through the Gospel she had heard and em-
braced. She was already planning to leave
her native state and go to join the people
of her choice in the chosen home of the
Saints. About a week after Manning’s and
Richard’s departure, Aunt Esther and Alice
took the stage for home. With considerable
reluctance though, for they had met many
pleasant people, and partings give us all
more pain than pleasure. But our lives are
mostly made up of these trifles, coming and
going, meeting and parting, and we must
take the sweet along with the bitter, or we
would never know the contrast. An over-
dose of sweet is very injurious, and some-
times fatal, though we all long for it more
or less, and some people really seem to get
more than their share in this life.
	Poor Aunt Esther plainly saw that there
was to be another struggle with her feelings,
another temptation, was near, and whether
she could overcome it or not, she was
scarcely satisfied in her own mind. She
had no advisor, no one upon whom she
could lean, and her human heart cried out
sharply for the love she had never been per-
mitted to enjoy in its full completeness.
Now it was within her reach. She could
accept it if she would, but would it not be
at the sacrifice of something higher and
holier and more lasting than mere earthly
happiness at its best? Esther Danforth
prayed for guidance from above; it was her
only hope and stay.
	Aunt Esther had no trouble in convincing
Polly and Ben, her true, trusted helps, of

[Column 2]
the new religion as she called it, and when,
shortly after, some elders, who had visited
Boston, came out to Mrs. Danforth’s, who
lived a little way out in the suburbs, both of
them were ready for baptism. Others of her
neighbors, too, believed; among them the
Elmores, which was a source of joy to Aunt
Esther and Alice, especially because of
Harry.
	Sidney Manning and Richard Ashburn
were not long away from the Wren’s Nest
after its mistress returned, and many pleas-
ant evenings were spent there, happily for
all except Aunt Esther, who felt too keenly
the risk she was running; for she had known
by intuition all along, that her old sweet-
heart, as he had been christened by the
young folks, was not favorable to her views
upon religion, and to her nature it seemed a
positive necessity. He wanted her exclu-
sively, and that only he declared would sat-
isfy him. But she was different and her
needs were greater; she, too, wanted his
love and something higher and purer. Day
after day the struggle went on, until Alice’s
marriage. Then the calmness was ruffled
a little, when Mr. Manning insisted upon
their marriage on the same day with Alice
and Richard. Esther made such an em-
phatic resistance, that it came near destroy-
ing their friendly relations for the future.
	It would be quite impossible here to de-
scribe in detail the particulars of Alice’s
wedding, but suffice to say, she had every-
thing she desired and was a perfect picture
of loveliness herself. The Elmore girls were
her bridesmaids, and young Mr. Wetherell,
her cousin, was Richard’s best man. Her
rich uncle from India, as she playfully called
Mr. Manning, gave her an elegant India
shawl and several odd and pretty ornaments.
After the wedding, Mr. Manning still con-
tinued his visits to the Wren’s Nest, and as
time went on, he grew impatient of the de-
lay or the fulfillment of the dream of his
life, and used all the powers of persuasion
he possessed to get Esther to name the
happy day. At last Esther summoned all
her courage and assured him it could never
be. It almost broke her heart, the inward
struggle was so great, but she saw with a
woman’s keen intuition that her happiness
would not be secured by giving way to this
earthly love that clashed with her religion,
and she knew herself to be equal to the oc-
casion. For her “old sweetheart,” as every
one had come to call him now, she felt
deeply; he had staked all and was about to
lose. He had no faith to lean upon, and
while she talked to him, this great, strong
man sobbed like a child. When he recov-
ered himself sufficiently to speak, he said:
	“Esther, my darling, if you should change
your mind, if you should be unhappy and
want me, or if misfortune should come to
you, don’t hesitate to come to me or send
for me. I will come if I am living. I would
marry you notwithstanding the doubts you
entertain of our happiness, but I cannot
take you unless you are wholly satisfied.
And now I must go away. I dare not linger
near you, I should be desperate,” and he
caught her in his arms, showered her with
burning kisses, and the hot tears fell like
rain upon her face. A moment more, and
he was gone—fled from her forever. She
did not dare look after him, lest she should
call him back, and have to go over the same
scene again. It was over, and her “sweet-
heart” had left her. She sank upon the sofa
and gave way to a passionate burst of grief.

[Column 3]
	And now Esther’s sweetheart has gone,
we must draw our story to a close. There
is little more to tell. Poor Aunt Esther went
about her daily duties as before, only she
grew more and more tender and lovable.
For some years letters came regularly from
India, and occasionally some valuable gift.
Twice she wrote to him upon Gospel sub-
jects. She did not dare trust her pen to
speak for her of other things. By and by
the letters ceased coming and then she knew
Sidney Manning was dead. She remained
constant in her devotion to her old sweet-
heart, and never married after, though she
had many opportunities. She devoted her
time, her means, and her energies, all to
doing good for others in the household of
faith, and many there were who received
blessings at her hands.
