The Prince of Ur Homespun. While the king thus strove with his trembling attendants, a cortege was approaching the gardens and courts of the Ziggarut. A train of white-robed women, some of them bearing baskets of fruits and flowers, others playing with deft fingers, the lady's instrument?the zither?while still others sang with rhythmic chant the hymnal to the goddess Ishtar the gaudy and yet moving picture was making its slow way through the streets "Room room, for the royal Neophyte of the Goddess Mylitta," cried the herald. After the dancing and singing women, came six chariots bearing in their gilded seats many lovely damsels, all unveiled and rose-garlanded and in the last gorgeously wrought chariot came the Semmite princess Iscah, who, like her attendants was robed in white, but over her head and face was a misty veil covering her from crown to foot, and thus shrouded and her feet buried in a bed of white rose petals, she sat with proud disdain. "Room room for the royal Neophyte" cried the public heralds. The crowd grumbled and cursed as they were pushed mercilessly off the broad street leading to the Ziggarut, to permit the procession to pass along its way. At its head walked a huge black eunuch, and behind him strode a dozen more whose insignia of the House of Terah gave them right of way over the most crowded of thoroughfares. Their passage was slow, and the chariot drivers had trouble in curbing their fiery steeds. "It is the lady Sarai," cried a shepherd prince. "Nay, not so," replied a Damascene, evidently a stranger in the streets of Ur. "How comest thou to know so much about the ladies of the House of Terah?" asked the shepherd jeeringly. "I know but little. But this I know, the princess Sarai carries her head proudly, not haughtily." "Then thou hast more than passing acquaintance with these great women of our city, stranger, for not one in ten thousand of the citizens or soldiers of Ur, could make me so fine a distinction. I am persuaded you are right. This must be the lady Iscah, for she is the moon, while our queen Sarai is the sun in full splendour of youth, beauty, and attraction." Eleizer was silent, his mind busy with what he had seen. Should he discover this matter to Abram who was confined within the palace walls? Or should he keep his own counsel and find 
 out for himself the destination of the lady who had but now passed on her public way to the great royal fete of the goddess Mylitta. It was a shameless avowal of her apostasy, that he knew. But how much was he justified in telling to Abram? "Room room for the royal neophyte of the goddess Mylitta," cried the heralds again and again, pushing and crowding the mass of foot passengers into the small side streets or crushing them thickly against the unwindowed walls of the houses along the street. Above them on the housetops, in the falling twilight, were also gathered many curious gazers who were vitally interested also in this startling new development of their royal Petesi's household. What could it mean? Surely not that old Terah had completely joined himself and all his household with the state religion, giving up once for all his quaint old-fashioned notions about a chaste patriarchal home life with its attendant human reliance upon a mysterious One-God who could never be fashioned out of some earthly material for all to see and fear or worship. If Terah's household were converted, then indeed was Ur about to emerge into the most brilliant scene of all its history. For men and women, alike, the rich and the poor, felt the silent restraint put upon them, their motives, and their religious and social orgies by the presence amongst them of a reigning Semmite Satrap who was so antiquated in his religious ideals that he would not even appear at the services in the newly-restored public temple on the hill of Potiphar, but must needs permit his son, the prince Abram, to erect a private Ziggarut in which to offer his own simple and highly primitive sacrifices. Terah, as the Petesi of Ur, had not only been a secret annoyance to all the people through his religious views, as all righteous persons are to a wicked world, but the constant refusal of his gloriously handsome son Abram, and his no less equally fabulously beautiful and wealthy daughter Sarai, to enter into the fast social life of the royal society of Ur, was a constant goad and sting to their own secret, vile ambitions and lustful desires. They felt, as do all abandoned creatures the keenest desire to see this pure and righteous family fall into their own class and become like themselves; but with the inconsistency of human nature, if Abram should change or when the house of Terah did fall or accept the inevitable fate as most of them put it there would be an instant but crushing disappointment it would prove that after all there was no such thing as human integrity and persistent chastity. That this ruin should come to pass was their most passionate longing and their most passionately dreaded climax. The triumph of good is as much hoped for, as it is feared, even by the wicked. "It is said that every man can be bought with a price," said the shepherd prince who had been talking with Eleizer, "and it THE PRINCE OF UR. 341 seems that even royal women only wait to catch a king before giving themselves into the arms of Mylitta." "Thou shalt not speak thus of any of the daughters of Terah. It may be that the Lady Iscah is ignorant of these bestial customs, and but goes in her royal white robes to pay a court visit to the king in his temple courts." "The lady Iscah ignorant? Going to pay a royal visit?alone unattended save with her choicest and handsomest damsels? Out upon ye, Damascene, thou hast not so much acumen as I thought." Eleizer had more than his loyalty would permit him to show. But he would defend till there was no shadow of doubt even; then he would refuse to believe the worst. While they were thus speaking, a magnificent chariot drove up behind them drawn by six coal black horses. The occupant stood behind his driver, his fastidiously ringleted locks falling on his embroidered tunic, his jewelled cane flashing in the sunset, his perfumed robes casting out their trailing odours long after he had passed upon his way, the glittering gold and jewelled fringes upon his priestly robe blinding the gaze of the awe-struck multitude. As he flew by, his chariot wheels billowing this way and that in his swift flight to catch the long procession which was far on its way down the street, a huge black dog, belonging to the shepherd who was talking with Eleizer, sprang out from behind his master's legs and almost flung himself in his fierce bellowing fury upon the body of the glittering chariot. Mardan?for it was he?raised his pliant cane, and with one blow between the eyes, he felled the brute who had thus suddenly assaulted him. But the women on the housetops opposite called out harshly "An omen, an omen!" Mardan cursed them and the dog in voluble Assyrian, but he stayed not in his reckless flight to catch the train of his kinswoman. The chase was successful, and Eleizer saw the Lady Iscah stop, lean over in her seat while Mardan talked earnestly with her, and after a few moments, she gave the signal for her train to wait while Mardan passed them all in his swinging road to the royal Ziggarut. The dog of the shepherd slunk back dizzily to its master, and the man bent eagerly over the bruised head, while he muttered low curses on the head of Mardan for his cruelty to the unfortunate brute. "Dost thou believe in omens?" asked Eleizer, as the shepherd took out some ointment and rubbed the swollen face of his pet, while he plucked a leaf from an acacia tree hanging over 
 the house-wall near, and wiped off the few blood drops on the fracture. "I believe that the devil preserves his imps for purposes best known to himself. I know that men whom dogs hate are not loved by other men, and that is omen enough for me;" for the shepherd was loath to reveal his true Semmite religious status to this stranger. Eleizer said no more, but was quite sure of the man's purpose of possible vengeance as he, too, followed on the road to the courts of the Ziggarut. Eleizer followed the shepherd more slowly. He was determined to discover all that was possible concerning this new departure in the house of Terah. As he sauntered more slowly, he was interested to observe the varied nature of the human traffic about him. The road was now open to all men and women on foot or in chariots they were clad in the linen and woollen vests; of the Assyrian, with the sash about their middle, and their long curled ringlets hanging about their ears thinly-clad children; were there playing and romping with screaming vigour at times, or crying out as children will, when anger or swift mischief prompted a change of tone. Here and there, a few dandies of the richer classes moved in and out, with their heavy perfumes, their jewelled canes, and their elegant seal rings and cylinders slung to their wrists making a picture of varied brilliancy. There was much chatter on the streets concerning the procession which had just passed by. But Eleizer was not a party to any of it, now that the honest shepherd had passed on. Along the lower end of the street came a train of lumbering plowmen bearing on their heads the fruits of their day's labours, and singing their common song of duty and joy as they plodded homeward in the dim twilight: "A heifer am I, to the plough I am yoked, "The plough handle is strong, lift it up, lift it up." While an equally solid mass of women came behind them with their arms filled with the sheaves of their gleaning, and they responded "My knees are marching, my feet are not resting, "With no wealth of my own?grain givest thou me." Eleizer looked at them with the strange wonder that fills every intelligent mind when he sees the dull acceptance of the brute lot of life which sings on its slave-driven way and kneels contentedly while the master adjusts the yoke. Moreover, the great city of Ur was trembling on the brink of mighty moral and spiritual convulsions the great Merodach-Nimrod was, for the; first time in years, within its walls to dedicate the beautiful new or newly-restored temple. And yet, these slavish knots could