Ethics. Read at the Granite R. S. Conference by Mrs. Lillian G. Knight. Ethics?the science of human character or more broadly speaking?it is the study of manners and morals. Ethics deals, for instance, with such virtues as truthfulness, honesty and sobriety. Man is said to possess a physical, moral, and spiritual nature. Faith is a spiritual trait. It is often hard to draw the line between ethics and religion. But there is a real difference. The world, in all ages, has set up certain standards of conduct, and has maintained certain virtues. Even the savage has his strict code of morals. He is often more straightly honest, and more rigorously truthful than his educated white brother. People who study ethics take for consideration what might be called the standard virtues: Truth, Wisdom, Benevolence, Love, Honesty, Obedience, Reverence, Knowledge, Patience, Hope, Courage, and Charity. Many modifications of these virtues lead to a study of Mercy, Temperance, Kindness, Gratitude, and such other traits as make the ideal man. All men believe these virtues to be good, and most men practice few or many of them. Men have found that it actually pays, in a business sense, to be honest and truthful. Long experience teaches any person the value of the virtues. No profession of religion is needed to qualify men to practice the virtues. All religions, except the true religion of Jesus Christ, are builded on ethical foundations only. Because men have found that the virtues are eternal, they come finally to exalt the virtues into a whole religion. Go into any of the churches today, and you will hear no doctrines, no religious principles referred to except as the virtues are a part?and a very important part?of their various religions. It is all ethics, ethics, ethics. Our young people, hearing one such sermon, come away feeling that it was all true?then why are not these churches also true, or founded on truth? All worship of God is founded on truth on some truth, a; little truth. For all who name the name of the Lord with reverence and love have a measure of truth and light within them. Then what constitutes the difference between this Church and all other churches in ethics and in religion? It is the priesthood. The power to officiate in the ordinances of the gospel. Men may be truthful, just, kind, chaste, and intelligent, but unless they come in at the door of Christ, they cannot enter his kingdom. The rich young man of the scriptures possessed all the virtues.