NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 349 The Relief Society has been studying the ethics of Gratitude, Industry, Reverence, and Prudence, but with each lesson has gone some gospel message that fastens the virtue up to the chain which links us to the kingdom of all truth and light. We want not a little truth, nor some truth?but all truth. Not the truths pertaining only to our physical and moral?or ethical?being, but also those truths that concern our spiritual advancement and development. Someone has said that facts unless arranged in proper order and sequence do not constitute truth. So with ethics unless the virtues are held together by the priesthood and are practiced in obedience to true religion, they will not save us. Therefore do we study, practice, and develop, in all the virtues. We want to be honest, chaste, benevolent, and to seek after all truth, holding fast to the Iron Rod.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD. Eastern States Mission. Mrs. A. W. McCune, of the General Board of Relief Society, has returned to her home in Salt Lake City, after spending the winter in New York City. While in the east, Mrs. McCune represented the General Board in the Eastern States Mission, and directed the work of the Relief Society, giving weekly classes in Genealogy, in both New York City and Brooklyn. Before returning to Salt Lake City, Mrs. McCune entertained the members of the Conference at a farewell reception, given at the Mission House on 126th Street. Mrs. McCune was one of the patrons of the National and International Council of Women, and with Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams and Mrs. Jos. Howell, represented the Relief Society at the recent Council in Washington. Further information comes from the Eastern States in a recent letter from Miss Margaret Edwards, who is in charge of the work there. Miss Edwards states that the Relief Society in New York City has lately been reorganised with the following officers: President, Bertha Eccles Wright, 1st Counsellor, Leona P. Monson, 2nd Counsellor Nona B. Peterson, Secretary and Treasurer, Janette Y. Easton. An organisation has also been effected in Brooklyn, with the following officers: President, Isabella Wingrave, Counsellor, Carmen Benson, Secretary and Treasurer, Alice Archibald. There is a thriving organisation at Lynn, Mass., which has been running for about 7 months. The members are reported as very greatly interested in the plan of the work as outlined in the Magazine.