Query Box. Hazel Love Dunford. Would you kindly give me some simple combination of perhaps turpentine, coal oil or something of the kind. I wish to polish my dining room chairs. I wish something that will remove the scratches the children have made. Thanking you in advance. Mrs. A. W. A., Emery, Utah. I know of nothing better than Vinero for your furniture. It can be obtained from most of the leading furniture stores. The office and factory are at 2640 So. Seventh East St., Salt Lake City. I am building a new house and would like your opinion on wall finishing for the kitchen. Mrs. C. O., Salt Lake City. Be sure that your ceilings are not made too high. Eight feet six inches is high enough. Paint walls white or cream, giving four coats. Finish with enamel paint. This is rather expensive in the beginning, but as the years pass one soon realises the economy of it, for the walls can be washed and cleaned so easily and never need re-painting. I have four children between the ages of twelve and three. How can I best get and keep their confidence. Mrs. E. G. W., Sugar City, Idaho. From the very infancy a mother must interest herself in the child's affairs. She must be a real chum to every one of her children. I know one mother who has a knack of making each one of her children (and she has five) feel that he is her special favourite. This, I believe, is one great secret in keeping their confidence. DISCOVERIES Mail Box.?The postoffice authorities sent word that we could aid them by placing a mail-box on our porch. I very much disliked the thought of the customary iron box against our bungalow wall. Finally my husband removed the top of one of the pedestals at the foot of the porch steps, put it back on with a hinge, inserted a wooden box in the pedestal and we now have an out-of-sight and very convenient mail box. He has since hinged the top of the other pedestal and in it the children place their rubbers or out-of-doors toys.?Mrs. N. F. M., Ore. Economical Dental Floss.?One spool of No. 60 linen DOES IT PAY. 351 thread, one piece pure beeswax rub wax on thread and use as; dental floss. Good Housekeeping Magazine. Home Made Cork Cleaner.?When cleaning steel knives use a cork instead of a cloth to apply the scouring powder. It cleans them quickly and thoroughly. L. D. W., Logan.
DOES IT PAY? It seems to me I once did say that you are always spending So much good time?if you was home you might do lots of mending. If I spent half the time you do, at meeting every day, I'd go behind with all my work, I'm sure it does not pay. Religion I have never found a paying proposition It's meeting or it's giving gifts without much compensation. I want religion to be light, if it was easy work I'd take a hand in everything and not hang back and shirk. Thus I found fault with these dear sisters Who always were attending Their duties in a quiet way To me it was offending. I thought they ought to stay at home And mind their children, there They'd find they had enough to do With all their household care. But as I grew in years, I found Those sisters who were trying To help the work of God along, To cheer the sick and dying, Were just the humblest of them all; The best ones in the ward, Denying self and home at times To labour for the Lord. And while I pity them at times, No more I'm found fault-finding, If they help in a public way, Myself I will be minding, And see if there is not a place That's suited for me there, And I will work both night and day, And others' burdens share. BASALT, IDAHO. Marie Jensen
Current Topics. James H. Anderson. Sunday Schools in the "Mormon" communities have a membership of more than 200,000?indicating a proportionately notably strong force for the moral and spiritual development of the young people therein. Salt Lake City has a policewoman, Miss Jane Barrett. That she can render more effective service in certain lines than can some of her male colleagues does not admit of dispute; the only question is whether she will do so under the present regime. Johns-Hopkins University at Baltimore, Md., claims the discovery of a serum which restores the heart action one or two hours after it has ceased from drowning or asphyxiation. If this discovery proves as effective as claimed, it means the saving of many lives. German submarine warfare against unarmed merchant vessels continues, notwithstanding the protests of the United States and official German promises which seem to be concessions to the American demand for a cessation or modification of that class of warfare. Russian troops to the number of about 250,000 have landed in France to aid the latter in staying the Teuton advance. This achievement was made possible only by the almost complete mastery of the seas on the part of the English and French navies. The Verdun battle continued seventy days without cessation and with enormous losses on both sides, comparatively slight gains of territory being made by the Germans. Later, the fighting there was resumed, with the prospect that the outcome of this greatest of the world's battles will be a material factor in determining the future conduct of the European war. Church funds of the "Mormon" people to the extent of $11,627,436 have been expended during the last fourteen years for schools, support of the poor, foreign missions, and the construction of houses for public meetings. This excellent showing represents the bulk of the tithing collected, and is apart from the funds raised for such purposes in the ward and stake organisations locally.