KEEPSAKES FOR THE TREASURE CHEST OF LIFE leads up to mastery and joy. Our prayer should ever be, "Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me."— 51st Psalm. We want clean pages in our book of life, pages that will need no apology. Generations are to follow after us. It is our desire that our descendants shall be clean and honest and kind. But what about our obligations to them? Will they look back upon our record with pride and satisfaction? Nature demands a clean blood stream, if we would pass on to the race our best inheritance. Those going before us have paid in pain, and blood, and tears for the spotless mantle they have placed on our shoulders. Are we willing to make a similar sacrifice, in order to pass it on to the next generation without blemish? "Consider the lillies of the field, how they grow: they toil not, neither do they spin: and yet I say unto you, that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these." —Matt. 6:28. The Master artist adorns the lily in the white garb of purity. May not we adorn ourselves likewise? "Those who wish to be clean, clean they may be," in body, in mind, and 175 in spirit. Did not our Savior cleanse the lepers, and forgive the woman found in sin? His love reaches out to mankind today, even as it did of old. We, too, may make him the morning star of our high endeavor. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow: though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool."—Isaiah 1:18. Among our cherished ideals is a beautiful woman, who possesses all of the feminine graces. She is like a fragrant flower that sheds a dellicate perfume all along the walks of life. She is the companion of our high hours of meditation—the woman we desire to become. As we are made strong by struggle and sacrifice: as we are cleansed by the fire of pain and sorrow: as our lives are sweetened by unselfish love: we may draw a little nearer to her day by day: until, finally, we shall be prepared to walk by her side, and feel the refining influence of her modest loveliness, the gentle touch of her chaste womanhood. Are you already walking in. Her sweet presence? Surely, purity is one of the jewels beyond price. We shall certainly desire to make it one of our keepsakes for the treasure chest of life.