Social activities are great assets to Relief Society. Even conversions result from the friendliness of these social functions.
A Tribute to the Relief Society By President W. R. Sloan
I THINK that I can truthfully say that I have been an unofficial member of the Relief Society all of my life. My earliest recollections are pleasantly intermingled with the kindly ministrations of this wonderful group of women who have contributed so much to relieve the suffering, worries and cares of their brothers and sisters during their sojourn in mortality. As a child, I remember being taken to meetings, listening to these kindly mothers and grandmothers give their testimonies and wonder why tears rolled down their cheeks as they spoke. On other occasions needles would fly, newfangled sewing machine wheels would whir under the pressure of fast moving treddles. Quilts would rapidly take shape, their bright colored blocks catching my youthful eye. It seemed sometimes to a tired little boy that mother's fingers would never cease to press her needle through these gay colors, nor her back to bend over the rack on which the work was stretched. The work of Relief Society was so interwoven in my mother's life that it seemed the coming and going of these good women was as natural and expected as family prayers or the milking of cows of a morning, their duties as much a part of her life as the fetching and carrying, the ironing and washing, mending and cooking for her own household.
In the fall of 1902, I returned from filling a twoandahalfyear mission to the Eastern States—my first absence from the family hearth. It was the signal for new and mature responsibilities in life. Upon the date of my arrival home I was met by a member of the Ward Bishopric who advised me that I had been sustained as President of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association the previous Sunday and that I was to proceed at once with the work. Entering upon this responsibility with the enthusiasm of a returned missionary filled with the spirit of service, I soon found myself surrounded by a corps of workers ready and willing to do their part. Just at the time that this work was assuming marks of some little success, I was called into a council meetings with Bishop J. M. Dunn, his first counselor and the stake presidency. They asked me to work as second counselor in the Bishopric and I was accordingly set apart for this work. However this office was of short duration. When circumstances arose necessitating our worthy bishop's release, I was asked to succeed him as bishop of the Kimball Ward of the Alberta Stake, in Alberta, Canada: I was just 21 years old and as yet had not complied with the injunction of St. Paul when he said that a bishop must be blameless and the husband of one wife. Having just returned from a long mission, I had not yet made the preparations for such an important venture as marriage, but I entered upon the responsibilities of my new calling with all confidence and enthusiasm, assured that the Lord would provide. It was here that I had my first 154 real insight into the workings of the Relief Society in the Church. My mother was then the president of our ward organization, and while we were living on a ranch some seven miles from the ward meeting place, yet I have never seen more loyalty and love for work than my mother here manifested. A team of gentle ponies was always kept on the ranch for mother's special use, it was long before the day of the automobile. Every week, upon the meeting day, the team would be harnessed and prepared for mother, who would drive the seven miles to be at her post of duty. And very seldom, if ever, would she leave the ranch without loading up the buggy with meats, butter, eggs, vegetables and other necesities to distribute among those in need. Sometimes she neglected to return home and upon investigation we would find that she had spent the night with some sick sister, in line with the code of duty of Relief Society, to comfort the sick and afflicted, minister to the dying and to care for the poor. I have heard scores of people say, "Sister Sloan, we always feel better when you are with us because you always bring with you a spirit that makes us feel good. Surely you are a wonderful woman." These testimonies and recollections are very dear to me for they came at a time in life when I needed the wisdom of experience to guide me, an unmarried bishop. During these two difficult years it was my mother who was indeed my real counselor. No one quite understood as mother did some of the problems that came up. Without her help I am sure that I could never have carried on my work.
THIS early foundation in Relief Society work was ever a bulwark RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to aid in building the Relief Society organization in the Northwestern States Mission. During the eight years Sister Sloan and I labored in the mission presidency, the importance of the Relief Society as an unfailing tool in solving relief problems among our people was demonstrated time and again. We were thrilled at the end of our term in office to report 35 Relief Society organizations with a combined membership of 800 earnest workers, throughout the mission. Our Portland society commissary alone collected and distributed 1200 pieces of wearing apparel in one year and equipped one small branch of our people with clothing, after they had been driven from the drouth area of southern Utah, aiding and encouraging them to get a foothold in their new found homes. The inspired organization of the Relief Society is testimony that the restored Gospel is the perfect plan for the salvation of mankind and that the mission of our Savior was to "give life, and that more abundantly." If space would permit, one remarkable incident after another could be told of benefits brought to the Mission Field by Relief Society endeavor. Our Vaughn, Montana, branch can testify to the spirit of this wonderfully alive organization. This branch was without funds when a group of our people moved into the town to make their homes. They wanted a chapel. Presiding Authorities were promised that they would furnish the labor if the Church would supply the material. The agreement was made. Materials were purchased and the membership turned to with a will. They started their chapel April 2, 1932, and before the end of the year they dedicated it to the Lord, complete and paid for. Well do I remember how those Relief Society sisters bustled about to aid in the construction, washing, painting, even helping with carpentry and cement work in addition to cheering the Priesthood along with food brought to the scene of operation to hasten the work. The cooperation of that group was one of the most outstanding in the history of the mission. They stand as a testimony to other members of the Church. "Broke" financially, but not spiritually, these faithful men and women immediately set about building a place in which to worship when they arrived in Vaughn. Today they stand among the leaders in the mission branches for per capita payment of tithing. Only six nontithe payers were listed among their membership for 1934.
AIDED by the Priesthood, the Relief Society program, properly administered, can go far to relieve mankind's six greatest worries, listed by one famous economist as: (1) Poverty, (2) Criticism, (3) Ill Health, (4) Loss of Love, (5) Old Age, and (6) Death. Their program provides that the best form of charity is to try to get people to help themselves. The course during the past ten years has done much for the poor and the needy, but I truly believe that it has done more for its own membership by developing within its ranks personal culture, personality, independence and a desire to be loyal selfsupporting citizens of the nation and members of God's great Kingdom.