(To be Continued) Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon A March day is like a blustering woman—a hidden promise of something fine when the storm is over. AMELIA EARHART PUTNAM accomplished a most daring feat in the world of aeronautics in her solo flight across the Pacific. For once the story does not read "the first woman" but the first person to cross both the great oceans in a solo flight. She was also the first person to make a transcontinental auto-gyro flight. HELEN WILLS MOODY is to make a come-back this spring.: Tennis fans will await with interest another game between her and the new champion, Helen Jacobs. MME. MARCELA SEMBRICH, the star of the original company, which opened the Metropolitan opera house in 1883 died this last winter. Caruso called her "My Greatest Gilda." MRS. NOBUKO JO, Japanese social worker, has established small places called Wait-a-Bits by means of which she is said to have prevented 2,500 young women from suicide. CORNELIA SKINNER will appear this month in her new play, written for one person. The play is an historical saga of American life covering the period from 1880 to 1934. Even her brilliant artistry will be taxed to the limit as it endeavors to portray the necessary periods in change of costume, voice, and condition. FiLIZABETH BERGNER, Viennese actress, acclaimed Europe's greatest star, made her debut on the American stage in the late winter and took the "first nighters" by storm. She appeared in "Escape Me Never," by Margaret Kennedy. Off stage she is simple and modest and avoids publicity telling the reporters "I am thrilled but terrified, so terrified." ATHARINE CORNELL has been voted first place among all the actors or actreses on the American stage this last year. MISS: ELLEN FITZ PENDLETON has offered her resignation as president of Wellesly college effective June, 1936. The date marks the twenty-fifth anniversary of her presidency and the fiftieth anniversary of her graduation from this college. LLA VON E. WENDELL, eccentric spinster of New York, died last January. Her assets in real estate valued at $30,956,357 was turned over to charity. Why not the personal property of $8,034,555.68 as well? MB>: HERBERT HOOVER calls following a "'neglected art." She recommends schools for followship as well as leadership. MRS. FLORENCE KAHN, California's representative in Congress, is the first and only woman on the appropriation committee. Aside from her arduous public work she writes a daily letter to her mother. KATHLEEN NORRIS, called the world's richest serial writer, makes close to $300,000 a year.