The music filled the chapel and floated out into the March sunshine. When it was time to give the lesson 141 Flossie stood up quietly with 10 apparent nervousness. Yet her cheeks were flushed and her eyes shining. She held a little sheaf of notes in her hand. "I noticed the cedar trees today as I was coming to meeting. They are beautiful. At the forks of the road there is a cedar tree taller than most of the others. It grows ona side hill and you can see its roots spreading out among the rocks." Cedar trees—almost against her will Shannon loved them—navy blue where they congregate in dark companies on the hillside, raggedly beautiful where they stand in silhouette alone. Flossie's clear voice continued: "Utah literature is like this cedar tree with its roots in the rocks of this land and its branches reaching skyward. Not mature, a growing thing. Perhaps years will pass before our tree of literature stands superbly grown. The arts are slow of growth. But today, my dear sisters, I want to talk about some examples of Utah literature that 1] think are worthy of the traditions of our State." Shannon looked at the women who listened. Some of them she knew. Old Marcia Gudmundson, without chick or child, who lived alone in Cottonwood Lane. Expectancy and eagerness flooded her wrinkled face. She had not been born in the mountain valleys but she had learned to love them. Angeline Nagley whose large family had married and moved away to the city, Angeline who might have been very lonely indeed. But she did not look lonely. She smiled and there was a light in her brown eyes. She had come to the meeting to be filled with beauty and inspiration. Shannon saw it in her face. Flossie spoke of the literature that flowered early in the Utah valleys, the writings of Eliza R. Snow and i42 the other sisters who edited the church magazines. "And the pioneers," said Flossie, ''even the leaders who laid the foundations of our inland empire were poets too. I think you will like these words: 'I found a large room canopied by the sky and walled in by these mountains.' Thus Brigham Young described the Salt Lake Valley, in these very words. They are poetry — earthy poetry." There was not a sound in the room. Expectantly the women waited. Flossie read again: " 'Their habitation is the munitions of rocks, and they ask no odds of the world, but they are subject to the God who has redeemed this basin....'" Flossie folded a sheet of paper as she explained, "These words were uttered by Daniel H. Wells who felt deeply the surging pulse of the desert land." Shannon looked at Trena Olsen, a young woman who had seen little of the world beyond the Fremont. She was married to a farmer and already the mother of a large family. She stared fixedly at Flossie and her eyes were eager. Flossie glanced again at her notes. "Since these valleys were first settled Poetry has flowered in the desert; singers have lifted up voices of purity and power. One of our living poets, a woman, wrote these lines. I love them: “Over the knees of the mountains Indian summer lies Like the golden haze of remembered days Over a woman's eyes....” For a moment Shannon held her breath, drinking in the beauty of the words. At her side Helga Anderson RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sighed, "them's the prettiest words I've heard since my Margaret died. She was a school teacher and could read real nice." Shannon seemed to feel the emotions of all these women. A strange communion seemed to fill the room. She knew that everyone was remembering thoughts too deep for words. Flossie folded up her notes and sat down. The lines of the closing song assailed Shannon with their lofty melody—"O, ye mountains high where the clear blue sky arches over the vales of the free...", "THE women lingered at the door. That was a good lesson. We enjoyed it. You did yourself proud, I can live a long time on that. Vaguely Shannon heard their words of praise. Flossie deserved everything they said. As the car jolted along out into the farmlands again Shannon sat very still. When they reached the Nielson yard she got out slowly, thoughtfully: "Flossie, that lesson helped me out so much—so much more than I can say..." "Oh, that's all right, Sister Heath. I haven't much ability but we all have to do what we can and I like the meetings." All her arrogance, all her stupid superiority seemed to have vanished as Shannon walked along a road that meandered pleasantly through Mill Valley. The March wind whipped her cheeks and she heard the roar of the creek as it tumbled boulders and melting ice along its twisted channel. Shannon saw the cedar trees on the hills and she thought of their roots in the rocks and their branches lifted to the blue. Music—the Language of the Soul By Adeline Rasmussen Ensign has had a very definite and important place in the life of man, a place it is certain to hold, for "Language is not subtle enough, tender enough, to express all we feel, and when language fails, the highest and deepest longings are translated into music." The idea has been expressed that music was in existence even before the creation of man, when the earth was in the state of formation. However, we know that during man's habitation upon the earth, there has been music of one form or another. Music had a very humble beginning, to be sure, and its development down through the ages is indeed an interesting study. It has always held a very special place in the hearts of men for from its primitive state to its present level, it has been used as an expression of the innermost feelings. The first mention of music in the Bible is in the twenty-first verse, fourth chapter of Genesis, and it is mentioned throughout the Bible, in both the Old and the New Testament. For just one example of its use in those early days we recall how Saul would send for David when he was in poor spirit, and how David with his harp would sing and play until "Saul was refreshed and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him." Cicero, the great Roman orator said, "The songs of musicians are able to change the feelings and conditions of a state." FROM the very beginning, music T was in July, 1830, when the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints had been organized but three months, that the Lord, seeing the need of music in His Church, gave the revelation requesting Emma Smith (who later became the first president of the Relief Society organization), to "Make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in My Church. For My soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." We see by this revelation that a song is a prayer and has more significance and value than most of us are prone to give it. We know there is a vast difference in saying our prayers, and praying, just as we should also realize there is the same difference in the way in which we sing. If the Lord considered singing of such great importance that just three months after the Church was organized,—in those troublesome times—He commanded Emma Smith to "Make a selection of hymns to be had in My Church," and when we realize He specified that "He wanted a selection which is pleasing unto Me, to be had in My Church," we understand there is a responsibility which cannot be overlooked or considered lightly. ROM the first hymn book which was compiled by Emma Smith and printed in 1835, we quote the Preface: "In order to sing by the Spirit, and with the understanding, it is necessary that the Church of the Latterday Saints should have a collection 144 of 'Sacred Hymns' adapted to their faith and belief in the gospel, and as far as can be, holding forth the promise made to the fathers who died in the precious faith of a glorious resurrection, and a thousand years' reign on earth with the Son of Man in His glory. Notwithstanding the Church, as it were, is still in its infancy, yet, as the song of the righteous is a prayer unto God, it is sincerely hoped that the following collection, may answer every purpose till more are composed, or 'till we are blessed with a copious variety of the songs of Zion." It was rather a difficult undertaking at first to find songs "adapted to the faith and belief of the Gospel," and naturally many songs were included in our first hymn books that were omitted from later editions as soon as our own poets and musicians set about to write according to our faith and beliefs. Many of our poets wrote beautiful words which they set to some tune familiar to them and which they loved, and likewise, our musicians set familiar words to beautiful music that they had composed. Among our songs we still find some written by those not of our faith, and as these songs are in accord with our teachings, they add greatly to our collection. VERY song has a message, a sermon in itself, and by careful study we are able to grasp the full meaning of each one. Only when we understand them completely can they come from our hearts. When we think of the Pioneers on their long trek across the plains, how weary and downhearted they would become and how after the singing of some hymns they would, with renewed courage, resume their toilsome journey, surely there is more to a song than just mere words and music. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The story has been told of a company of our American soldier boys just before going over the top in. No Man's Land, grouping around in a dug-out, singing "Lead Kindly Light." Picture in your mind these boys who needed all the courage they could muster, just before making the supreme sacrifice, singing— "Lead Kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom, Lead Thou me on! The night is dark, and I am far from home; Lead Thou me on!" How earnest their plea—''The night is dark, and I am far from home—. Lead Thou me on!" If we could only realize the opportunities, which music affords us, to express our deepest and innermost feelings,—then our songs could not become a matter of form or custom, but we would partake of the spirit of them and sing them with fervor. Its Place in The Relief Society "THE chorister and the organist of the Relief Society must understand the purpose of this great organization, understand thoroughly what may be required of them in their special offices, and then after having accepted the responsibility, put forth their very best efforts towards success. It is necessary that they attend the Stake Union meetings as well as the Ward Officers' meetings because there they receive instructions and partake of the spirit of their fellow workers, for it is with this closeness and unity of feeling and purpose that each effort is blended into a beautiful and harmonious whole. They should be willing to spend time in preparation of their work so that it can be presented intelligently,—realizing that it must be MUSIC—THE LANGUAGE OF THE SOUL thoroughly understood by them before it can be transmitted to others. They should know the powers of music and how our different moods can be translated and expressed in its language. WE cannot put too much stress on the importance of the proper selection of songs in the Relief Society—for when they are chosen to correlate with the lesson they serve as an introduction and foundation upon which the class leader can build. Perhaps if more consideration is given to this feature, many thoughts would be discovered in our songs that could later be enlarged upon in our lessons. The ingenuity of the chorister is often challenged when a thought developed in. The class work needs a certain song to complete the atmosphere. "THEN there is the chorus work that should be encouraged for there is something about mingling our voices together in song that unites us,—that weaves an invisible something around our hearts to bind us together. Surely nothing is more inspiring or delightful to hear than a well trained chorus. "The music in my heart I bore Long after it was heard no more." These choruses when organized in the wards and stakes will find they have ample opportunity to furnish music on various occasions; Relief Society conferences, programs of various kinds, and what could be a more beautiful tribute to a departed friend than to sing at the funeral services. THE choristers and organists have such splendid opportunities to become efficient leaders. There are many books written upon this subject which can be read and studied. Then, 145 too, many radio programs feature only the best in music and if listened to attentively much can be learned in the way of phrasing, tempo, expression, etc. We must apply ourselves and remember "Of all work that produces results, nine-tenths must be hard work. There is no work from the highest to the lowest, which can be done well by any man who is unwilling to make the sacrifice." OW let us attend a Relief Society meeting; as we approach the appointed meeting place we hear strains of music—the organist is playing a prelude. How appropriate the selection, and how beautifully she renders it. It is her special privilege to create the atmosphere for the entire meeting. The chorister is ready too, her list of songs, selected to correlate with the lesson, she has already handed to the presiding officer. Everyone present feels the spirit of unity and co-operation. Contrast this meeting with one where no forethought or preparation has been given to the prelude, where the chorister rushes in at the last moment, picks up a song book, and the first song she turns to is the song that is sung whether it be appropriate or not. This condition shows a decided lack of appreciation of the importance of music and the meeting for that day is greatly handicapped, indeed. "My house is a house of order," saith the Lord. Can we expect His Holy Spirit to abide in a place where confusion and lack of preparation exist? We need the Spirit of the Lord, we invoke His blessings upon us but we have a right to expect them only when we have done our part to merit them. Bulwer said, "What men want is not talent, it is purpose; not the pow146 er to achieve, but the will to labor." We can so fittingly apply this to our Relief Society work. What use is talent if we aren't dependable, or the power to achieve if we haven't purpose and the will to labor? THE Relief Society is a great organization and there is a vital RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE place in it for music, but it is for us to give it the place it rightfully deserves—the place the Lord had in mind when He said, "For My soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto Me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads."