Let There Be Peace At the end of 1934 Ishbel, Lady Aberdeen, President of the International Council of Women, in response to letters urging her so to do, made an appeal to the National Councils all over the world to take active steps toward the abolition of future wars. She calls attention to the silent procession of women at the Hague and tells that the great gathering was addressed by four members of Parliament, and that then the great procession was formed following a flag which proclaimed in big letters "Women Want World Peace." "Silently the long procession made its way through the city until it came to a halt at the Peace Palace, where a petition was presented of which the text had already been submitted to the Government. It stated that women wanted peace based on arbitration; that they condemned war as being in contradiction with all humanitarian and religious principles. Women claimed from the delegates of all countries at Geneva rapid progress in the Disarmament negotiations according to the idea underlying the League of Nation. They drew inspiration from an expression of opinion of Her Majesty Queen Wilhelmina in a telegram sent to President Roosevelt (on Good Will Day, é May 17th, 1933) to the effect that she did not see any reason why peaceful settlement should not become the sole method of dealing with international disputes. The petition closed with the words 'Before all the world Dutch women declare that they want arbitration and mediation instead of war'. Lady Aberdeen says, "the great thing is to get the movement going, and to encircle the world with the holy determination of mothers who are the originators of life and also the preservers of the lives of future generations. "When the rank and file of the populations of all nations are evidently so agonizingly anxious to prevent War from breaking out, surely it must be within the power of the mothers of the human race, with the blessing of God, to bring influence to bear on the politicians which will prevent world suicide. "I beseech you, dear friends, not to let this appeal fall on deaf ears,. But to show in a practical way the potentiality of the Sisterhood of. The International Council of Women in this crisis of the world's history." Surely if women will unite the world over, they will have great power to hold at bay the War God. Memories By Ella J. Coulam Have you passed a fragrant garden In the Springtime of the year, When the perfume of the violets Awakened memories dear? Have you watched the crystal waters Of a rushing mountain stream When a quiet pool in canyon's turn Aroused a cherished dream? Have you met a gentle woman With a kindly passiveness, Who reminded you of Heaven And your Mother's tenderness? Thank God for these reminders Of the bright spots of our past, Which will give us joy unmeasured And hold our memories fast.