Notes from the Field Carbon Stake Relief Society. The one shows five "THESE two pictures from the generations, the other the organizaCarbon Stake are quite typical of tion of the Welling Ward, with the a WELLING WARD 178 babies who belong to the members. The Welling Ward has a membership of 105 families, and there were 20 new babies last: year. All the activities of Relief Society are carried on with the spirit of enthusiasm for the work. South Sanpete Stake A VERY excellent program in the field of music is being conducted in the South Sanpete Stake. A chorus is organized in each ward and in the Stake Union Meetings there is also a regular music department, where the outline for the coming month's work is suggested. The choruses from the various wards take turns in furnishing music at the Union Meeting. This creates a spirit of friendly rivalry and works out for great good. Since it is felt that the young mothers should be interested as far as possible in the social service lessons, especially, the ward has organized a junior as well as a senior chorus of women, and the junior chorus furnishes the music on the social service lesson day. For special occasions, as the Relief Society Stake Conferences and the anniversary days, the choruses from all the stakes unite and furnish the music. The combined chorus is known as the "Relief Society Singing Mothers of the South Sanpete Stake." Each month a list of hymns is made out and given to the ward choristers, and these musical numbers correlate with the different lessons. The use of the baton is demonstrated for those who are self conscious about leading, and each chorister is given a chance to practice on the members of the chorus. The ten minutes allotted for practice on each Relief Society day, with the exception of Theology, is used to excellent advantage. The day on which the Literary lesson is given is set apart as a time for special remarks upon music appreciation. The class leaders cooperate closely with the choristers in selecting suitable musical numbers for this lesson. This program of activity, when put into effect, gives an excellent opportunity for keeping the stake chorister and organist in touch with the wards, and if any difficulties arise there is an excellent place for discussing them together. For the practice of the hymns ten minutes of the time is allowed in general assembly of the Union Meetings. Each ward practices the hymns on Social Service day and on Work and Business day. The stake is to be congratulated for its faithful and competent choristers and organists. They are doing a very excellent work in bringing up the standard of music and aiding in the general cultural program of Relief Society.
Lyman Stake
A VERY interesting report of the activities of the Lyman Stake begins with the stake day, held on September 25, 1934. This was in honor of the wards. There was a good representation from practically every ward in the stake, and where there was not a representation, it was due to very unfavorable weather conditions. The Dines Ward, which is the most remote, is to be congratulated upon having one hundred percent in attendance. During the morning session a very fine program was presented, and the playlet "The Spirit of the Magazine" was given. At this meeting the small banks which had been prepared were given to each ward executive officer. These banks were to hold the pennies for the Annual Dues and the Magazine subscriptions. At noon a hot luncheon was served to everyone present, and this was a very delightful occasion, as some of the visitors had driven 75 miles or more to be in attendance. During the afternoon session special instructions on the Home Project introduced by the Relief Society this year, was the subject for discussion. During this day a fine bazaar was held. The Stake Board has assisted the members of the Lyman Ward in preparation for this, and the proceeds were to go to the stake and ward libraries. The stake is extremely happy that the movement for the libraries has been started, and the Magazine subscriptions throughout the stake have greatly increased. The wards are all enthusiastic over the Home Project. It was a very auspicious beginning for a successful year.
Lethbridge Stake
FROM the Lethbridge stake comes an account of Relief Society activity. It is extremely interesting when it is taken into account that the wards of this stake are quite widely separated, and there are many obstacles in the far north which our sisters have to surmount. The beginning of the Relief Society year's activities was on September 25, 1934. At this time the stake executive officers had decided to visit three of the most remote wards. They left early in the morning for Calgary, the most distant ward, as their destination. There had been a severe storm, which was quite unusual, at this season of the year, but as the trip had been planned, the sisters decided not to postpone the start. The roads were very difficult to travel, and the journey of 186 miles was accomplished in seven hours. Calgary is the largest city in Alberta, and the Relief Society here is very active in looking after the Latterday Saint women in this community. Stavely was the next point of destination. Here a most 179 delightful meeting was held, with every member of the Relief Society and some visitors in attendance. Many of them had traveled over long expanses of muddy roads to be in attendance. The sisters continued their journey until they had covered the entire distance and met with the sisters. It was a very inspirational visit, and many fine phases of work and business that had been given in April Conference were demonstrated. It was a most excellent thing for the board to establish this very active contact with the sisters who are faithfully carrying on. Perhaps no more efficient and regular visiting teachers' work is done than is to be found in the Taber Ward of this stake. There are 16 districts and 34 teachers. Six of the districts are out of town and have to be visited by some means of transportation, and yet in this ward 100% visiting teachers was reported. There was a very interesting special meeting called in this ward in honor of the teachers, who were royally entertained by the ward presidency. A very fine spirit prevails throughout the different wards of the Lethbridge stake, and every ward is trying to do its best in carrying on the educational and material side of Relief Society work.
Yellowstone Stake
FROM the Yellowstone stake comes this very interesting item, which shows the force for good which Relief Society proves to be in our L. D. S. Communities. It is certainly a practical demonstration of the spirit of stimulating good work. The following questionnaire was sent out to the wards, and the results which were received follow: The observance of: Prayer in the home....................90 % The Word of Wisdom..............90 % The Sabbath Day....................90 % 180 Payment of Tithes..................84% Free from forbidden practices and secret orders (Cardplaying, Sunday pictures, etc.)....97 % Attendance at Sacrament Meetings
Report on Magazine Subscriptions
WE publish herewith the last list of magazine subscriptions we shall print until the drive next fall. We deeply appreciate the earnest effort of our magazine agents, and the assistance rendered them by the officers. We are grateful for the very large subscription list that has been turned in. We now have more subscriptions than ever before in our history. It is remarkable the increase that some wards and stakes have made within the last few months. East Jordan reports that they have turned in 124 more subscriptions this year than last. Sister Artemesia Romney, president of the Northern States Mission, says their subscriptions have increased very materially. We hope all our subscribers will feel amply repaid in what the magazine offers them for their money.
WARDS 100% OR OVER Ward Stake Enrollment No. Sub. Percent Name of Agent Beazer Alberta 29 29 100 Mrs. Bertha Wynder Hagerman Blaine 40 40 100 Mrs. Emma Penfold Marion Cassia 24 27 112 Hattie N. Tolman Mt. Glen Union 13 13 100 Wanda Zaugg Pershing Alberta 9 9 100 Mrs. Vera Lee Rochester Emery 15 15 100 Cleo Olsen Taylorsville Alberta 19 19 100 Mrs. Rose Lowry Union Union 38 38 100 Rose Koffard
WARDS 75% OR UP TO 100% Ward Stake Enrollment No. Sub. Percent Name of Agent Bancroft Bannock 46 39 85 Mrs. Zetta Ormand Bountiful 2nd So. Davis 113 93 82 Alta Hill Brigham City, 3rd Box Elder 78 Mabel Christensen Brigham City, 5th Box Elder 94 Crystia Woodland Carey Blaine 47 35 75 May Wilde Draper East Jordan 84 71 84 Bertha Andrus Emerson Minidoka 40 33 82 Hill Spring Alberta 64 48 76 Mrs. Sarah Fisher Kimberly Twin Falls 20 15 75 Mountain View Alberta 54 41 78 Mrs. Sarah Stocker Perry Box Elder 75 Selma Thorn Pleasant Grove, 2d Timpanogos 75 Rigby, 1st Rigby 82 63 80 Elizabeth West Roberts Rigby 22 18 82 La Voun Kunz Welling Taylor 22 17 77 Elizabeth Bullock 11th Ensign 115 87 76 Pima St. Joseph 147 145 98 Susannah Crockett
STAKE PERCENTAGES Stake Enrollment No. Sub. Percent Magazine Agent Alberta 557 306 Mrs. Violet Tanner Alpine 748 340 45 Mrs. Ivy Steele Blaine 357 182 50 Mrs. Alice Piper Box Elder 928 577 62 Mrs. Eliza Thompson East Jordan 656 403 61 Mrs. Matilda M. Smith Minidoka 335 159 48 Mrs. Margaret Duffin Oquirrh 438 189 43 Palmyra 726 364 50 Mrs. Hattie Wilcox Twin Falls 188 132 70
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTERDAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND
THE GENERAL BOARD President First Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: Mary Connelly Kimball Manager: Louise Y. Robison

Vol. XXII MARCH, 1935 No. 3
MARCH seventeenth records many experiences and accomplishments of Relief Society. To you, dear members, for the achievements of this year, congratulations and hearty thanks. Your efforts inspire confidence, your devotion indicates reliance upon divine aid which always insures success. Louise Y. Robison
IT is a source of keen pride and pleasure to me to be associated with the multitude of faithful workers in the Relief Society. Their devotion to the great Relief Society cause, and to the church itself; and their helpfulness to one another and to humanity in general at all times and under all circumstances distinguishes them as true followers of our Lord and Master. Amy Brown Lyman
HONOR and gratitude to the women of Relief Society, who are the living embodiment of the two great commandments upon which hang all the law and the Gospel?to love and serve God and fellowmen. Julia A. F. Lund
Relief Society: For my membership in this organization I am truly grateful. The opportunity it offers for unselfish service, as well as its educational value to all who will work for it cannot be over estimated. Also among its many blessings are the priceless friendships it has given me. God bless the Relief Society. Emma A. Empey
THE influence and teaching of the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints will reach every land, and hamlet in the world. The Board has traveled thousands of miles to carry a message of love for the Gospel, taught by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Sarah McClelland
MEMBERSHIP in the Relief Society breathes a divine testimony of the sweetness of life, for its mission is love, the "Charity that never faileth."?Annie Wells Cannon.
Assistant Manager
GREETINGS to the women of 182 GREETINGS to the woman who "looketh well to the ways of her household, and who eateth not the bread of idleness," who increases her efficiency by study and participation in Relief Society activities. Jennie B. Knight
"Go take to the lowly my blessing and peace. As I cared for the poor so do ye, And if ye do good to the least among these Ye verily do it to me."
SURELY they whose untiring and ceaseless efforts to maintain the high ideals and standards of Relief Society have done just that. All praise and honor to them for their supreme loyalty and devotion. May there be peace, happiness and contentment in the souls of those whose love and understanding have helped scores to travel the highway of life. May vision, courage and faith in the cause they represent come to those whose responsibilities are new and problems many. Lalene H. Hart
"THE beauty and breadth of Relief Society work is seen at its best in the activities in the Wards. I wish to pay my tribute of appreciation to the Ward Presidents, Counselors and Secretaries, who are doing a splendid work. Every week someone who has been forgotten is found and brought into the fold. God bless the Ward Officers! Lotta Paul Baxter
DURING the coming year. May we all realize that it isn't the size of the thing we do, but the way in which we do it that is the ultimate test of our usefulness. Wishing you continued success in your work. Cora L. Bennion
FROM its small beginning so long ago our Relief Society has RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE grown until its message now goes to its organizations in 21 foreign countries and to every state in the Union. On this its 93rd birthday greetings to its members everywhere and may God bless each one. Amy W. Evans
IN the great cosmic universe of our Heavenly Father every atom has its place, and is inter-related with every other atom. So, in our Relief Society, each member has her place and adds her strength to the whole organization. Rosannah C. Irvine
With joy I recall my visits to your Stakes. The cordiality, the sincerity and the love of our Relief Society workers has ever been an inspiration to me. May heaven's choicest blessings always be yours. Nettie D. Bradford
TO all members of the Woman's Relief Society on this the ninetythird birthday of its organization, Greetings: I cherish the most pleasant memories of all you whom I have contacted and hope to meet you all again and many more of my loyal coworkers during this coming season's activities. Elise B. Alder
MAY Relief Society women be blessed by ever keeping in mind that loving His children is the way to love God. Inez K. Allen
OUR earthlife is significant. Opportunities are daily afforded us for service and improvement. Our Relief Society is a medium of education for women. It is our great opportunity! I sincerely appreciate our great organization. Ida Peterson Beal