The Work of the Hand By Amy W. Evans
THE women of ancient Babylon used needles almost exactly like the ones we use today, and probably had the same difficulty in threading them as we do for the eyes were made after the manner of the modern needle. This is one of the recent interesting discoveries of archeologists. Their findings also disclose the fact that the women of those ancient days did some fine decorative needle work. Yet long before that time there is evidence that some sort of needle was in use, in fact needlecraft is as old as history and woman has stitched to clothe the family down through the ages. While this craft grew out of human need for covering, for warmth and protection, it long ago developed an avenue of self expression in creative art, and through the various forms of the needle, as the crochet hook, rug hook, shuttles, etc, we have the fine tapestries, needlepoint hooked rugs, embroideries and laces which are cherished as beautiful specimens of art.
THE sewing day of the Relief Society was first organized to meet human need as shown by the minutes of October 14, 1843, a little over 92 years ago, "Meeting held in Lodge Room, Coun. Whitney presiding. Mrs. P. M. Wheeler proposed to the society that a sewing meeting be appointed that garments and bed coverings may be made and given to such as are suffering and cold and naked. Moved and seconded and carried that the sisters meet Thursday afternoon of each week at one o'clock to comfort the poor." —P. M. Wheeler, Asst. Sec. From that time on this has been the main purpose of the sewing meeting in the Relief Society as expressed in the minutes of the organization so long ago. However with changing conditions the objectives of this meeting have broadened. When the need of sewing for the poor grew less urgent it became more apparent that there was a benefit to the members themselves in meeting together and working together. The idea of this meeting as an avenue for creative self expression took shape. Psychologists now tell us that to create something with the mind or hand is one of our fundamental desires, that by satisfying this urge we become more well rounded personalities and better able to meet the demands of life. This creative work with the hands releases pent up energy and relaxes tense muscles. The concentration on patterns and designs, the matching of colors takes the mind off personal worries. The manager of a needle work shop who has been in the business for years bears out this statement when he said that art needle work always booms in depression times. None of us who have felt the thrill of creating a beautiful rug, an artistic quilt or a bit of fine lace need to be told of the satisfaction she has had in her work. Even when our handwork could not be considered strictly a work of art it has had a certain beauty to the one who created it and had a decided value to her as a means of self expression. Recently there has been a boom in knitting and the department store art 148 sections are filled with earnest knitters. Of course knitted things are fashionable now. Some maintain that Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt with her knitting bag during her husband's presidential campaign had something to do with starting the fashion. It has been rumored too that the Prince of Wales knits. Regardless of fashion knitting is restful and perhaps personal worries during the depression has had something to do with this knitting boom. A woman who is 77 years old combines utility and beauty in the making of quilts. It is one of the major interests of her life. Recently one of her relatives asked her husband about her and he said "'Oh, she's fine, those quilts of hers keep her happy and contented. They're what keeps her going." She is always on the lookout for new patterns and pieces, and she can see the concrete results of her own efforts in her greatly admired quilts. There is the recognition of her ability which also is a source of satisfaction to her. There is no doubt that what her husband said is true. They do "keep her going." With what pride the creator of a beautiful hooked rug tells of the cast off silk hose and other discarded materials that she used in its construction. How she worked out her own design and color scheme. It is a child of her own hands and ingenuity. Working as a group has advantages aside from social contacts. It is stimulating to see what other women are doing. Many a woman has been inspired to make her own home more comfortable and attractive by learning what other women are doing along this line. The exchange of ideas at our work meeting has its value. Then again the tense nervous woman is greatly benefited by hand RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE work. Psychiatrists have long used handicrafts in the treatment of nervous troubles. Too much intellectual work without an outlet in action of some sort tends toward nervous tension. So aside from the fact of sewing to clothe underprivileged children and keep elderly people warm and comfortable our work meeting has another value. It is like mercy, it is twice blessed. "It blesseth him that gives and him that takes." The comradship that comes from working side by side for a good purpose, the opportunity to satisfy our creative urge and our desire for recognition brings us a fuller and richer life. Our Relief Society program would not be well rounded without this phase of our work. "Needle work has filled the need for women in every age since Penelope sat at her web."