Lesson Department (First Week in May)
Theology and Testimony
LESSON VIII
THE KIRTLAND TEMPLE
1. Early Revelations. Scarcely a year after the Church was organized, and when the membership was still very small, the Lord gave a revelation to Joseph Smith in which he made brief and indirect allusion to the existence of temples in the last days. Here is the statement: "I am Jesus Christ, the Son of God; wherefore, gird up your loins and I will suddenly come to my temple." (D. And C. 36:8.) The statement, although brief and indirect, was portentous of a practice that would later differentiate the Latterday Saints from all other Christian people. It is doubtful, however, that at that time the members of the Church, and likely even the Prophet himself, realized its significance.
2. At first thought it may appear strange that the Lord is under the necessity of revealing the truth a little at a time, that is "line upon line and precept upon precept." The fact, of course, is that if principles were revealed in their entirety at one time, the Saints would not be prepared to receive them. Moreover, the same condition holds in secular matters. Children at school, for example, are given only a limited amount of new material at any one time. Students of music, of physical education, of medicine?and of anything?necessarily approach their subjects in the same manner. Indeed, on every hand and in every form of activity, the human brain is limited in its assimilation of new material.
3. Two months later the Lord again alluded to the same matter as follows: "That my covenant people may be gathered in one in that day when I shall come to my temple," this time adding: "And this I do for the salvation of my people." (D. And C. 42:36.) Some four months later, in July of 1831, the Prophet arrived at Independence, Missouri, chiefly for the purpose of establishing a branch of the Saints in this locality. By that time he doubtless fully understood that the privilege and obligation of building a temple to the Lord rested upon his people, for in the language of the Prophets he was caused to exclaim: "When will the wilderness blossom as the rose? When will Zion be built up in her Glory, and where will Thy temple stand, unto which all nations shall come in the last days." (History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 189.) Almost immediately in reply the Lord said: "Behold, the place which is now called Independence is the center place; and a spot for the temple is lying westward, upon a lot which is not far from the courthouse.' (D. And C. 57:3.) A few days later, on the third of August, 1831, the Prophet in company with a small group of elders impressively dedicated the place to this sacred purpose. The structure has not been erected, but is held in contemplation by the Latterday Saints for some future time.
4. The Beginnings at Kirtland. In a revelation given at Kirtland, Ohio, LESSON DEPARTMENT December 27, 1832, the Lord directly commanded the establishment of a holy house. Here are his words: "Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God." (D. And C. 88:119.) For some reason, at least partially unknown, the Saints were slow to heed this command. Perhaps they did not understand its import; perhaps they were looking too steadfastly toward the "center place," or perhaps they were more interested in the promised rewards of the future than the stern realities of the present. At any rate, their delay brought forth a rebuke from the Lord in no uncertain terms, declaring that they had committed a grievous sin. He promised them, however, that if they kept his commandments they would still be successful. The Lord then gave the dimensions of the building and designated the purpose to which its various parts should be dedicated. (See D. And C., Sec. 95.)
5. Constructing the Temple. This had the effect of arousing the Saints to great activity. A building committee was appointed and a circular letter was sent to all branches of the Church, requesting the members to assist in the immediate fulfillment of the Lord's command. Some six weeks later, July 23, 1833, "The corner stones of the Lord's House were laid in Kirtland, after the order of the Holy Priesthood." It is interesting to note that on this very date the Saints in Missouri received notice from a lawless mob calling for their expulsion from that state. Work on the Kirtland temple, however, continued without interruption, although at times somewhat slowly, because of the extreme poverty of the Saints. 185
6. The Saints were perhaps never more fully united in a common purpose. "With very little capital except brain, bone, and sinew, combined with unwavering trust in God, men, women, and even children, worked with their might. While the brethren labored in their departments, the sisters were actively engaged in boarding and clothing workmen not otherwise provided for?all living as abstemiously as possible, so that every cent might be appropriated to the grand object, while their energies were stimulated by the prospect of participating in the blessing of a house, built by the direction of the Most High, and accepted by him." (Eliza R. Snow.)
7. Slightly less than two years after the construction of the temple began, a solemn assembly was held in Kirtland for "the purpose of blessing, in the name of the Lord, those who have heretofore assisted in building, by their labor and other means, The House of the Lord in this place." (Hist. Of the Church, Vol. II, p. 205.) The record then gives the names of more than a hundred who were blessed because of their valiant and efficient work in this connection.
8. For some time prior to the completion of the temple, parts of it were used for council meetings and other gatherings of the Priesthood. As early as January, 1836, a code of rules was formulated and adopted for use in the "House of the Lord at Kirtland." On the twentyfirst of the same month the First Presidency of the Church, together with Father Smith, met in the west room of the unfinished temple and engaged in solemn prayer. Father Smith was blessed by the First Presidency, after which, by virtue of his authority as Patriarch, he anointed and blessed them. After this was done several other officials of the 186 Church were invited into the room and given blessings. The Prophet relates that "The spirit of prophecy and revelation was poured out in mighty power; and loud hosannahs, and glory to God in the highest, saluted the heavens, for we all communed with the heavenly host." Certain details of these heavenly manifestations will be considered in a later part of this lesson.
9. Dedication of the Temple. The temple was dedicated on Sunday, March 27, 1836. The opening of the doors for the first session was set for eight o'clock in the morning. An hour before this time, however, throngs of people, from far and near, began to arrive. A capacity congregation of between nine and ten hundred were admitted, while many others were deprived from attending the service. The assembly was organized in solemn form, each of the divisions of the Priesthood being seated in its appointed place. The early part of the service was characterized by scripture reading, prayer, singing, and exhortation. The officers of the Church, also those of its various quorums, were duly accepted by a rising vote of all present. The dedicatory prayer, received by revelation, was then offered by the Prophet Joseph. (See D. And C., Sec. 109.) The congregation next sang the song which has since become a strong favorite among the Latterday Saints, namely, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." The proceedings were sealed by shouting "Hosannah, Hosannah, Hosannah to God and the Lamb," three times, sealing it each time with "Amen, Amen, and Amen."
10. Early Spiritual Manifestations. Brief mention has already been made of spiritual manifestation that occurred at a meeting in one of the rooms of the temple before its completion. It will be remembered that this was the occasion of a meeting attended by the First Presidency and the Patriarch. The Prophet RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE writes: "The heavens were opened unto us, and I beheld the celestial kingdom of God, and the glory thereof, whether in the body or out I cannot tell. I saw the transcendent beauty of the gate through which the heirs of that kingdom will enter, which was like unto circling flames of fire; also the blazing throne of God, whereupon were seated the Father and the Son. I saw the beautiful streets of that kingdom, which had the appearance of being paved with gold..... I saw the Twelve Apostles of the Lamb, who are now upon the earth, who hold the keys of this last ministry, in foreign lands, standing together in a circle, much fatigued, with their clothes tattered and feet swollen, with their eyes cast downward, and Jesus standing in their midst, and they did not behold him. The Savior looked upon them and wept." (Hist. Of the Church, Vol. II, pp. 3801.) This was by no means the full extent of what the Prophet saw, nor of those who were with him. Speaking of the latter, he says: "Angels ministered unto them as well as to myself, and the power of the Highest rested upon us, the house was filled with the glory of God, and we shouted Hosanna to God and the Lamb."
11. After the above manifestations were completed, the Prophet invited the High Councilors of Kirtland and Zion into the room. He says: "The visions were opened to them also. Some of them saw the face of the Savior, and others were ministered unto by holy angels." Thus, even before the temple was finished the Spirit of God was visited upon it in mighty abundance, not only as a manifestation to one individual but to many.
12. Manifestations following the LESSON DEPARTMENT Dedication. Here is the Prophet's record of spiritual manifestations that occurred at a meeting held in the evening of the day of the dedication, which, however, was attended by officers of the Church only: "Brother George A. Smith arose and began to prophesy, when a voice was heard like the sound of a rushing, mighty wind, which filled the Temple, and all the congregation simultaneously arose, being moved upon by an invisible power; many began to speak in tongues and prophesy; others saw glorious visions; and I beheld the Temple was filled with angels, which fact I declared to the congregation. The people of the neighborhood came running together (hearing an unusual sound within, and seeing a bright light like a pillar of fire resting upon the temple), and were astonished at what was taking place." (Hist. Of the Church, Vol. II, p. 428.) Thus not only those who were in attendance at the meeting witnessed the manifestations, but many others as well.
13. The next Sunday (April 3, 1836), following the eventful Sabbath upon which the Temple was dedicated, manifestations of even greater import were received. At the afternoon session the Sacrament was administered. When this had been done Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery retired to an appropriate stand, enclosed by curtains, and solemnly sought the Lord in prayer. They testify that the Lord Jesus Christ appeared unto them; and later Moses, Elias, and Elijah. (Read carefully D. And C., Sec. 110.) 187
The Kirtland Temple was built by the Latterday Saints at a time of extreme poverty. The consummation of the Lord's commandment was a supreme test of their faith. But they arose to the occasion and manifested a faith and devotion seldom equalled in the history of mankind. As a reward for their diligence and obedience, the Lord poured out his blessings upon them in rich abundance. Even the Savior himself, with concourses of the heavenly host, graced the temple by his presence. Although the temple remained in the possession of the Latterday Saints for only a short time, yet the blessings received within it will endure for eternity.
Suggestions for Discussion and Review
1. Make it very clear as to why revelations of the Lord are necessarily progressive?
2. What was happening to the Latterday Saints in Missouri at the time the temple was undergoing construction? Give details.
3. Why was the building of the temple a supreme test of Latterday Saint faith?
4. Enumerate the principal points in the dedicatory prayer.
5. Have some one give the origin of the song "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning," then have the class sing it.
6. Make a list of all the spiritual manifestations known to have taken place in the Kirtland temple.
Teachers' Topic
MOTHER'S DAY
LIKE other days of remembrance a special day has been set apart to remind us?lest we forget?of the one whose prayers, love, devotion and service have been the firm foundation on 188 which that fundamental institution, the home, has been built, and upon which today the stability of civilization depends. Although Mother's Day has, comparatively recently been designated as a holiday especially devoted to the honor of women generally, history reveals that the idea came from ancient times. Mother worship with its customs, rites and ceremonies dates back to pagan times. The worship of the "Mother of Gods" was used in Rome 250 years before Christ and was celebrated as a festival when the people brought offerings to the Temple. With the coming of Christ the festival was changed in spirit though it kept some of its old forms. It was there that the old celebration with pagan rites gave way to the one in honor of the "Mother Church" out of which grew the observance of "Mothering Sunday." This was the day allowed the children who were apprenticed out to visit their parents and take to them some little trinket or gift. Many beautiful stories of mothers in many countries, in olden and modern times, have been written which reveal their strong character and their patient devotion to their families and humanity. The story of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Francis Willard and her mother is such an one.
IN our modern time the idea of a special day for Mother originated with Anna Jarvis of Philadelphia, though in many places in Church gatherings it had been celebrated at various times. A proclamation by the President of the United States, Woodrow Wilson, in 1914, designated the second Sunday in May as Mother's Day, to be observed by displaying the American flag and other appropriate exercises, as a public expression of our love and reverence for the mothers of our country. To Latterday Saint Mothers this day has a deeper significance. Appropriately set on Sunday, it is enriched by its association with the Divine, as they believe in their Heavenly Mother as in a Divine Father. While we pay homage to those mothers whose long lives are full of joy and happiness with their family and friends, let us not forget those whose lives have been cut short by the ravages of disease, which might have been prevented through a little greater effort on our part. May this beautiful custom of honoring Motherhood never die, but take on a deeper meaning as the years come and go.
Literature (For Third Week in May)
LIFE AND LITERATURE
What Every Woman Knows
She had an understanding with the years; For always in her eyes there was a light As though she kept a secret none might guess? Some confidence that time had made her heart. So calmly did she bear the weight of pain, With such serenity accept the joy, It seemed she had a mother love for life, And all the days were children at her breast. ?A Woman.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
In pursuit of the Good, the True, and the Beautiful, is rightly said to be Man's highest task. Side by side through the ages Woman has aided Man in his task. The measure of civilization lies in the opportunities provided for Woman to attain her highest development. Man seeks achievement by power, woman seeks accomplishment by influence. Intelligence, courage, and perseverance have directed her keen intuitions to aid Man. The highest ideal of which both Man and Woman are capable is that by intellectual and moral interdependence, reciprocity and companionship each individual attains Happiness. Many pages in "The Book of Literature" record Woman's place in the world, in every department of development, in science, in art, in literature, in education, and in philanthropy. There are also many pages recorded of her own expression, a mirror of her heart and mind.
Woman, The Adventurer
Of woman, her heart and mind. Many songs have been sung and many stories told. A mystic light veils from our sight Eve as the mother of men and Mary as the mother of Jesus, but they are the most reverenced of womanhood. In each woman's heart there is an understanding of the motherlove of Rebecca and Andromache, an exultant pride at the valiance of Deborah and Florence Nightingale, a human sympathy for the erring of Guinivere, and always a poignant sorrow for the Giacondas of every age. When Antigone (an tig'o ne) of Sophocles defied Creon and gave her brother burial so that immortality might not be denied him she gave the world a pattern of ideal womanhood?a defender of eternal law. A great host of women are our 189 literary companions inspiring, challenging, and comforting all womankind. To James M. Barrie, contemporary author, woman owes a most understanding and tender portrayal. Sir James Matthew Barrie who once belonged to Scotland now belongs to the world. This master of two arts, fiction and drama, is held in affectionate regard by Englishspeaking people, readers and playgoers alike. The son of Margaret Ogilvy was born in the little town of Kirreimuir, ninety miles from Edinburgh in 1869. The father, honest David Barrie, was then in his fortysixth year. On the day of James' birth Margaret Ogilvy Barrie got her first set of hairbottomed chairs for which she had long been saving up her sixpences. The boy who played as other boys over braes and downs, a little more shyly than the other laddies, was no genius child. He did, however, earn a reputation of a storyteller at the village school, a tiny seminary kept by two maiden ladies. Glasgow, Forfar, and Dumfries were the scenes of Barrie's education. The young scholar turned eagerly to literature finding romance in that which lay near at hand. A day came when Barrie's sister saw an advertisement for a feature writer in an English provincial paper that had strayed up north. Proving the successful applicant J. M. Barrie joined the staff of the Nottingham Journal in 1883. One by one the "Auld Licht Idylls," glimpses of the old minister, the postmistress, and the villagers of Kirriemuir, were written. Robert Louis Stevenson, enthusiastic over the work, encouraged Barrie to continue writing. "A Window in Thrums" another picture of the village soon followed. "The Little Minister" with the lovable Gavin Dishart and Lady Babbie, established Barrie's reputation as a 190 novelist. The sentiment, humor and pathos of the idylls and sketches were strange new qualities to the readers of English fiction, but the distinctive charm of the playfulness of the author won general acclaim. Established now in London, Barrie was still a "homekeeping chimney corner laddie" thinking always of the mother who watched and waited in Scotland as the new author took his rank in contemporary letters as a writer of genius. Urged by Sir Henry Irving, England's noted actor producer, Barrie dramatized "The Little Minister." For the production of the play in the United States, the author visited New York. Then started the friendship with Charles Frohman, the most gifted and famous theatrical producer that America has known. Utah's own Maude Adams, the beloved American actress, as Lady Babbie, began her role as a Barrie character, for the author in his appreciation of her stated: "I love to write for her and see her, in my work." The dramatic activity of Barrie thus successfully began, continued bringing to the theatre many delightful plays, chief among them being "Quality Street," "AliceSitbythe-Fire," "The Admirable Crichton," "Peter Pan," "What Every Woman Knows," "A Kiss for Cinderella," and "Dear Brutus." Barrie wrote plays to be produced conforming to no literary conventions. It has been well said that Barrie has more intuition into character than any other English playwright. There seems to be a spiritual intimacy in his work that accounts for its charm, his "Aprilweather" style, his fashion of combined sentiment and laughter. Because of this gift Barrie is particularly apt in his treatment of women and children. To his contemporaries Barrie, the man of genius, is a rare RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE creature?"a child who can express through an artistic medium the childishness that is in him." The hero of many years of popular acclaim, James M. Barrie is today the most unassuming little man you would meet in a day's walk. In 1913 the King of England bestowed knighthood upon him for his notable contribution to English life and letters. Another of his great days was his election to the rectorship of St. Andrews University, Scotland, and still another when he was made Chancellor of Edinburgh University in 1930. Known as the hermit of the Adelphi, where he lives, he is probably London's most contemplative pedestrian as he walks along the Strand unnoticed by many, yet known to the world as the finest embodiment of Scotland's national genius in our time.
Margaret Ogilvy, by her Son
In "Margaret Ogilvy" Barrie has raised a most enduring memorial to his mother. The work is not a biography in the accepted meaning of the word; it is not a tribute or a character sketch. In it the author has done more than draw a lovely picture of his mother's humble life, he tells us more about himself than about his mother as he reveals the motherlove which nurtured his genius. The beauty of the book lies in the fact that it is the intimate life of a woman whose life might have been found in thousands of Scottish homes of the period. We perceive from Barrie's work that years of narrow means marked his mother's early years. The joy at the acquisition of a set of chairs is a landmark in the family history. Death came often to the Barrie home, leaving its mark of ill health upon the wee mother. Few incidents of importance are recorded in the lifestory, rather do we note the different facets of the beautiful character of the woman who emerges from the pages of "Margaret Ogilvy." Of his mother's face Barrie says, "For when you looked into my mother's eyes you knew as if he had told you why God sent her into the world?it was to open the minds of all who looked to beautiful thoughts." During a serious illness, after the accidental death of her oldest son, Barrie's mother became very dear to James. To make her smile and forget her grief was his joyous task. Whistling, capers, stories were all employed, the record of the smiles being kept to show the doctor each morning. In the chapter "What I Should Be" we see the mother's anxiety over her son's education. His disposition to become a writer recreated much consternation. Picturing him lonely and hungry on a park bench made her son's early experiences in London a source of great worry to her. How eagerly she watched for criticisms of her son's work when fame came his way. A most human account in the story records Margaret Ogilvy's jealousy over Robert Louis Stevenson. This contemporary of her son seemed to dim his greatness. With most intricate plans Barrie tempted his mother to read "The Master of Ballantrae" of Stevenson to offset her jealousy. As a day in Margaret Ogilvy's life is outlined we see the unselfish service of her "maid of all work," her daughter, Jane Ann. Then comes the closing scene, wistfully the loving son is asked, "Am I an auld woman?" Gleefully as a boy the picture of a girl in a magenta dress with a white pinafore, carrying her father's dinner, the girl she used to be, is painted. The most treasured family heirloom is called for, the christening robe. It was brought to her. It seemed to bring 191 back the memories of motherhood. One by one the children were named as she held it tenderly in her arms. The "maid of all work" passed away before the mistress. The son's last task was to bury them together. Again of his mother's eyes the son declares, "They were never more my guide than when I helped to put her to earth, not whimpering because my mother had been taken after seventysix glorious years of life, but exulting in her even at the grave." Our interest in Margaret Ogilvy is heightened by her son's confession that she is the essential heroine of all his books, she has found her way into every character of a good woman, young or old, that he has created.
Peter Pan
Sir James M. Barrie's delightful creation, "Peter Pan," has by now a secure place in the hearts of children of all ages. "I'm youth, Eternal youth," cries the immortal boy, Peter at Playing "Peter Pan" a supreme achievement in imagination can be placed with "Alice in Wonderland," "Puck of Pook's Hill" and "The Blue Bird," "The Pied Piper," the rapture of childhood and the joy of all old age, William Lyon Phelps has written of "Peter Pan," "It is one of the most profound, original, and universal plays of our epoch." The text is now translated into nearly every modern language and produced in the theatres of almost every civilized country. A long line of talented actresses have played the role of the Boy Who Would Not Grow Up. But none with more elfin significance than Maude Adams, the idol of the American stage. The play is written about the echo of a mother's sigh for her children Ah, if you could only stay as you are. Not staying children but maintaining the spirit of youth?a quality of mind, not age?is the message. The play opens like a modern comedy?Mr. And Mrs. Darling are going out for the evening, so they step to the nursery to say goodnight to their children, Wendy, John, and Michael. Through the window the motherless Peter comes flying. The children are eager to follow Peter to fairyland. Off to the Never Never Land they go. The land is peopled by the world's lost children and fairies. The children are delighted with the fairies. Wendy becomes a mother to Peter. Pirates come to steal Wendy, but before she goes she makes Peter promise to take his medicine and wear his winter underwear. Tinker Bell, a faithful fairy companion, protects Peter from the Indians. There are many thrilling adventures and escapes. The children are finally taken back to the nursery, there to be greeted by their parents. Wendy wants her mother to adopt the lost children. Peter, however, decides that as he cannot consent to grow up, he must return to the Never Never Land. High in the tree tops he lives in the house made by Tinker Bell playing his pipes and waiting for the spring, because then Wendy will come to visit him. A statue of Peter Pan has been erected in Kensington Gardens as a gift to the children who visit there by the creator. The gift of Sir James Barrie came as a delightful surprise, set up by stealth in the night it was revealed to them on a Mayday morning. How fitting it is that the royalties from this classic of fairy tales amounting to some $10,000 annually, now go to the support of the Children's Hospital in London as a gift of the creator of Peter Pan. To young and old the message of Peter Pan comes "Except ye become as little children." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"What Every Woman Knows"
The story of Maggie Shand, a beautiful embodiment of motherwife, is the material of the drama. Maggie Wylie, a plain Scotch woman, is the subject of a strange betrothal contract. Her brothers anxious to see her mated, advance John Shand the money for his education with the provision that at the end of five years he is to marry Maggie if she is willing. Maggie knows her limitation, as a girl without charm which she explains, "Charm is the bloom upon a woman. If you have it you don't have to have anything else. If you haven't it, all else won't do you any good." Six years pass, John Shand's great hour has come. It is election night and he is running for parliament. Maggie, overdressed and plainer than ever, is awaiting the election returns. At the committee rooms. John, victorious, is accompanied to his headquarters by many friends. As Maggie watches some of the women she realizes more than ever her own lack of appeal. John, loyal to his contract, now offers to marry Maggie. Maggie would release John, but the brothers decide the issue by presenting their sister as the bride-to-be of John Shand. The play moves to London, some months later, John Shand has gained popularity through his speeches, the terse humor in them being known as "Shandism." At a committee meeting of women, John's speeches are the subject of discussion. Maggie protects from them the secret, she it is who writes the speeches. She explains herself later when suspected. "He loves to think he does it all himself, that's the way of men. ['m six years older than he is. I am plain and have no charm. I'm trying to make up for it." During the course of events John Shand succumbs to the wiles of an LESSON attractive woman. Maggie still plays her role in spite of the remonstrances of her brothers, "I'll save him if I can," she says as to her decision. It is decided not to jeopardize John's success by a separation. Plans are later made for John and Lady Sibyl to be house guests of a friend. John is selected to deliver an important speech for his party. Keen disappointment is evident when John meets with his colleagues to present his speech, it is inadequate and lacking fire. Ata critical moment Maggie arrives, she brings a speech? John left it in London is her explanation. John delivers the speech and the "Shandism" of it again assures his success. John is saved for Maggie. According to Charles Frohman's biographers '"What Every Woman Knows" was written expressly for Maude Adams. "It was a dramatization of the roguish humor and exquisite womanliness that are her peculiar gifts." The author himself justifies this statement by saying that he wrote the play because "'there was a Maude Adams in the world." The delightful comment of Maude Adams' appreciation of all that Barrie meant to her is found in her statement: "Whenever I act, I always feel that there is one unseen spectator, James M. Barrie." Maude Adams "From the eventful night at the Salt Lake Theatre, when nine months old Maude Adams was carried to the stage in "The Lost Child" up to her recent reappearance as Peter Pan, in whatever character she has been seen, it has been the player and not the play that has left the impression." A long list of DEPARTMENT 193 characters have fallen to her interpretation: Lady Babbie in "The Little Minister," the Duke in "L'Aiglon," Joan of Arc, Rosaling, Maggie Wylie, Phoebe T. Throisells, Chanticler, Peter Pan. As an actress Maude Adams hides behind her act. It would seem paradoxical to state that his exclusiveness has made her the best known actress on the American stage. Her frequent visits, professional and informal, to her birthplace, Salt Lake City, are marked by joy and appreciation. To this beloved public she made recently a valuable gift of paintings, another monument to her own spirit. The spirit of Maude Adams is the spirit of Peter Pan?joy and innocence, freshness of morning. The buoyant creative upbuilding energy of life that makes her cry, "I am youth, Eternal youth," is remembered by young and old wherever she has played. Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature, Macy. Margaret Ogilvy, Barrie. Peter Pan, Barrie. What Every Woman Knows, Barrie. B. Program: 1. Music: Appropriate to "Mother." 2. Review: a. Margaret Ogilvy. B. Peter Pan. 3. Reading: "What Every Woman Knows." C. Objective: This lesson has been planned for a "Mother's Day" program. GS)  Social Service (For Fourth Week in May) Florence NIGHTINGALE IT is said that one time, not long after the Crimean war of 1854 55, some British naval and army officers met at 4 dinner in London. In the midst of the conversation, which of course was about war, to who, Crimea, would most probably be the thereupon wrote a name on a slip of paper. When the votes were counted, it was discovered that the men had put the Same name on al] the slips. It was the name of Florence Nightingale. At a time when the word "nurse" connoted to most minds not only ignorance and credulity, but also bad morals, Florence Nightingale turned it into a word fraught with tenderness, skill, deed, one of these very officials said that, when nature made Miss Nightingale a woman, great commander. Popular imagination," None of the women we have Studied thus far, great as they undoubtedly were, exceeded Florence Nightingale in ability and high character, and none ever attained the general popularity that she did. Preparatory Years. IF We are to understand the interest and the activities of the child, this in the case of both Octavia Hill and Jane Addams; it is the Wordsworthian adage that the "child is father to the man." This is especially true of the subject of this lesson.' Florence Nightingale was one of the social class known in England as ?upper.? Her father, William Nightingale, was the owner of two large estates- Embly Park, in Hampshire, and Lea Hurst, in Derbyshire. Besides, there were Mayfair rooms in London during the fashionable season, with its gay parties. Florence was born in Italy, in 1820, while her parents were on an extended visit to the Continent, ame sort of domestic life that millions of other English women had But Miss Nightingale had other plans for herself, married, and never seems to have Wanted to marry. LESSON DEPARTMENT Always her nature and disposition inclined toward tenderness where suffering was concerned. Even in imagination she was so. For the dolls with which she and her sister played were forever ailing and needed the care of the healer. In this respect she differed greatly from her sister. What injury the latter inflicted on the dolls, in broken legs, scarred faces, and bruised hands and arms, the former instantly and tenderly repaired. That at least is the tradition concerning her. And then, too, when she got a little older and was over the doll period, she used to visit the farm-folk in the neighborhood, especially the sick and those who suffered in any way, for the purpose of seeing if she could be of any use to them. Even ill-treated animals, particularly such as had been hurt in any manner, received protection and benefit from her solicitude for the unfortunate. A story is told to the effect that she once saved the life of a farmer's dog, who had been injured in an accident, who was to be shot as of no further use, but whom she nursed back to usefulness through knowing how to mend a broken leg. Thus many a home around Embly Park came both to know and to love the young healer. From the time she reached womanhood till she was thirty-three years old Florence Nightingale lived a desperately dual life. Outwardly she was a society belle. She danced,-she went to dinner parties, she went abroad frequently with her parents and sister and attended no end of Italian operas, and she might have had her pick of the desirable young gentlemen in her circle, for she was both beautiful and engaging. Once indeed she thought seriously of marrying one of them, but only once, it seems. "I have an intellectual nature and a passional nature," she says, in a passage which 195 we are abridging, "which requires satisfaction and which would find it in him, and I have a moral and active nature which I would not find in him. And sometimes I think that I will satisfy my passional nature at all events." But she did not. Inwardly, however, she was burning up with a desire to satisfy what she called her moral and active nature. Of this she writes: "The thoughts and feelings that I have now I can remember since I was six years old. A profession, a trade, a necessary occupation, something to fill and employ all my faculties, I have always felt essential to me, I have always longed for. The first thought I can remember, and the last, was nursing work; and in the absence of this, education work, but more the education of the bad than of the young. Everything has been tried, foreign travel, kind friends, everything. My God! What is to become of me?" The obstacle in her way was her parents' prejudice against nursing. It was as if she had wanted to do the most menial labor. In the midst of her distress she came to think that God was punishing her for her sins. 'No one," she said at this time, "has so grieved the Holy Spirit.' And she prayed to be delivered from vanity and hypocrisy, and she could not bear to smile, "because she hated God to hear her laugh, as if she had not repented of her sin,' whatever it was. She "saw nothing desirable but death." When at length she became superintendent of a charitable nursing home and gained thus her independence, her mother almost wept. "We ducks," she said, "have hatched a wild swan." But, as one of Florence's biographers notes, it was an eagle they had hatched! Meantime, Miss Nightingale had prepared herself for what she must 196 have known in her heart was coming. "She devoured the reports of medical commissions, the parnphlets of sanitary authorities, the histories of hospitals and homes. She spent the intervals of the London season in ragged schools and workhouses. When she went abroad with her family, she used her spare time so well that there was hardly a great hospital in Europe with which she was not acquainted, hardly a great city whose slums she had not passed through. Then, while her mother and sister were taking the waters at Carlsbad, she succeeded in slipping off to a nursing institution at Kaiserswerth, where she remained for more than three months.? 2. The Lady with a Lamp. It was the breaking out of war? the Crimean War?that gave her the opportunity she sought and at the same time showed her enormous capacity for such work. The Crimean War arose over an attempt by Russia to establish a protectorate over Greece, and was fought between Russia, on the one side, and Turkey, France, Great Britain, and Sardinia, on the other side. A fortunate combination of circumstances brought Miss Nightingale into the picture. In the first place, she was prepared for her work by study and by experience. This we have already seen. If the war had come some years earlier, she would not have been ready; if it had come a few years later, she might have been committed to work elsewhere, and not been able to give it up. And then, in the second place, Sidney Herbert, a close friend of the Nightingales, was at the war office in the cabinet. As a matter of fact, a letter from him inviting her to go to the seat of war and one from Eminent Victorians (Strachey), Florence Nightingale. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her to him offering her services passed each other in the mail. At Scutari, the place to which the wounded were sent, she found a veritable inferno. There were four miles of beds, but not enough to supply the needs, and these were so close together that one could hardly pass between them. Underneath were the shallow sewers, whose filthy breath rose into the rooms. The floors were so rotten that they could not be scrubbed. There was no ventilation whatever. Said Miss Nightingale, "I have been well acquainted with the dwellings of the worst parts of the great cities of Europe, but have never been in any atmosphere which I could compare with that of the Barrack Hospital at night." The sheets were of canvas; there were no basins, towels, soap, brooms, mops, trays, plates, no knives or forks or spoons, no scissors, splints, or bandages. And of course there were no nurses before Miss Nightingale came. Of the altogether too few doctors the leading ones were too old to see what improvements could be made. Laundry facilities were all but nil, and the food was inadequate both in quantity and quality. To make matters worse, it took two or three weeks to bring the wounded from the battlefield to the hospital, and seventy-two out of every thousand died in transit. If the British officials thought of Florence Nightingale as a nurse merely, they had reckoned without their host. She was much more than a nurse. Prior to embarking she was told that there were supplies enough at Scutari, but, whether she distrusted her informants or was unwilling to take any chances in a matter so important, she took with her great quantities of whatever she thought she would need. Also she carried about $35,000, which had LESSON been contributed by friends of the army, and this was considerably increased by a fund collected by the London Times. Opposed by some of those who were her official supervisors at Scutari, she went over their heads and practically forced decisions in her favor from the central war office in London. The amount of red tape she encountered was interminable, not to say irritating, to a woman of her temperament, but she cut it whenever it was necessary. Once, when the commissary refused to let her unpack some supplies that were greatly needed, because he had not received any orders to do so, she herself ordered them unpacked, while that official stood by wringing his hands in agony. On another occasion, when five hundred new beds were needed, she hired two hundred men to build an addition to the Barrack Hospital, and paid them out of her private funds. It was not long, therefore, before she was in complete charge there, with no one to say her nay. Her authority once established among the grumbling under officials and doctors, she set to work at the huge task of caring for the wounded. In a Turkish house she had laundry boilers installed. Soldiers' wives were put to work at the tubs. And so, for the first time, the sick men had clean things to wear and to sleep in. In addition they enjoyed the luxury of towels, soap, knives and forks, combs and toothbrushes. Next she saw to it that their food was nourishing, properly cooked, and served regularly, with such extra delicacies as soups, wines, and jellies. Similarly she provided the men with clothing and other essentials, for their kits had mostly been lost in the shuffle of events, and then, as she wrote to Herbert, she was practically "clothing the British army." The expenses, for the most part, were DEPARTMENT 197 met from her own fund and that furnished by the Times. Indeed, in her own words also, she looked on the business of nursing as "the least important of the functions into which I have been forced." The effect of all this is expressed by Strachey, in the following passage from his Eminent Victorians: "To those who watched her work among the sick, moving day and night from bed to bed, with that unflinching courage, with that indefatigable vigilance, it seemed as if the concentrated force of an undivided and unparalleled devotion could hardly suffice for that portion of her task alone. Wherever, in those vast wards, suffering was at its worst and the need for help was greatest, there, as if by magic, was Miss Nightingale. Her superhuman equanimity would, at the moment of some ghastly operation, nerve the victim to endure and almost to hope. Her sympathy would assuage the pangs of dying and bring back to those still living something of the forgotten charm of life. Over and over again her untiring efforts rescued those whom the surgeons had abandoned as beyond the possibility of cure. "Her mere presence brought with it a strange influence. A passionate idolatry spread among the men: they kissed her shadow as it passed. They did more. 'Before she came,' said a soldier, 'there was cussin' and swearin', but after that it was as 'oly as a church.' The most cherished privilege of the fighting man was abandoned for the sake of Miss Nightingale. In those 'lowest sinks of human misery,' as she herself put it, she never heard the use of one expression 'which could distress a gentlewoman.' " If, however, Miss Nightingale was all gentleness to the sick and helpless, she was something very different to those around her who were well. Here, too, she lived two lives. For, beneath the calm exterior of the woman who, dressed plainly and unassumingly, went about among the mules and miles of beds, comforting and consoling, there were all the signs of power, quick decision, the hard executive. Her voice, as one says, "had that in it one must fain call master." She never raised her voice; always she spoke softly, even when she commanded. "The thing just can't be done, Miss Nightingale," a doctor told her once. And she answered quietly, very quietly, "It must be done." And it was done. Her authority was altogether irresistible. In the end, however, Miss Nightingale's health broke. But not her spirit. When the fever rose to a point where she was unable to move, she wrote letters till her mind left her. Once her life was despaired of. But she recovered. Her indomitable will saved her. On recovering, she was importuned to return to England, but she would not do so, she said, as long as there was a sick or wounded soldier left in the Barrack Hospital. And she did not. It was not, however, till four months after the declaration of peace that she embarked for home. In England her reputation passed all bounds?thanks to the letters of the soldiers, the reports in the Times, and the official correspondence. On her arrival in England she was presented by the Queen with a brooch and a letter. The brooch bore a St. George's cross in red enamel and a Royal cipher, surmounted by diamonds, with the inscription, "Blessed are the merciful." And the letter contained the phrase that her Majesty hoped "to make the acquaintance of one who had set so bright an example to our sex."  . She Reforms the Army. Miss Nightingale's spectacular work at Scutari alone would have made her continuously famous. But in her own eyes it was but a springboard from which she was to leap to much greater usefulness. Scutari had only given her experience, knowledge, power, which she must now employ so as to bring about reforms in the army. Not only she, but others, saw this. "Such a head!" the Prince Consort set down in his diary after her visit to Balmoral, "I wish we had her at the War Office." She had, during her visit, gone into "all the defects of our present military hospital system and the reforms that are needed." Two things hindered. One was her health. Two years at Scutari had undermined her nervous system, so that, during the forty-five years that remained to her (she died in 1910), she did her work often from a sick bed?reading bulky reports, dictating long letters, receiving visitors, high and low. And then there were the War Office officials, particularly the indecisive Lord Panmure, commonly known as the Bison, with others there, who spent their time resisting reforms. But she had her compensations, too. There was her immense popularity; there was her easy access to the Queen; and there was her own position among the upper class, which gave her access to peers and the nobility. Moreover, Sidney Herbert was her devotee and friend?as long as he was in office. It was a contest?who would win? First of all, she wanted a Royal Commission appointed, to inquire into the health of the army. To attain this object, however, three steps would have to be taken. The commission would have to be authorized, then the right kind of men would have to be appointed on it, LESSON and finally its powers would have to be defined in such a way as to favor reform. But this meant three distinct battles with the minister of war?Lord Panmure. These stretched out over six months each. But in the end Miss Nightingale had her way. She practically dictated not only the members on the Commission and defined their powers, but she decided what the Commission should say in its Report and what it should not say. However, through Sidney Herbert, who wrote the report, through infinite tact and her knowledge of the minister of war was abnormally publicity, and she had an eight-hundred-page report of her findings as to the health of the army and the need for reform, which knew this, and was taking nothing for granted in the situation. From now on, therefore, all her knowledge, of course, with the change of government Lord Panmure was forced DEPARTMENT 199 out of office. This left the way clear for all the reforms which she had barracks and the hospitals were remodelled, being properly and ventilated for the Coffee-rooms, rooms, gymnasiums, and workshops were established. The government, in which all these things happened, marked an epoch in the history of the English army, as a reformer she says: She laid the foundations "of the whole modern system of medical work in the army," and "saw her beginning to bring her knowledge, her influence, and her activity into the service of the country at large. On hospitals the theory of hospital construction Nurses Thomas' Hospital (1860), she became the founder of modern nursing.
Class Discussion
1. What hospital facilities have those unable to pay? Is this adequate for the need? Do nursing service? Sufficient nurses? Are school nurses employed in your education system? At were the outstanding 200 characteristics of Florence Nightingale? In what way did her work pioneer the way for the Red Cross? Discuss some particulars of the Red RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Cross work that are similar to what she did. 3. Read A Lady with a Lamp or Philomenia, by Longfellow.
Mission Lessons
LESSON VIII. HEALTH AND HOME NURSING
HEALTH HABITS
"Knowing what to do to keep well is the very best kind of knowledge."
MAN has been described as a bundle of habits. From birth a child reacts favorably toward the simplest habits of sleeping, eating and elimination. The rising hour, the daily bath, the number of hours of sleep, the care of the teeth, etc., may be referred to as our health habits. These habits should be properly established early in life, for they have a great deal to do with health, and later on, even enter into the formation of personality. The process of growing up is but a repetition of acts, or habits, which may make or mar our lives. The ability to make friends and the simple reaction to the various problems of life are partly the result of habit. "Health is the ability to stay well." It is so vital and necessary for a successful life, that the formation of important health habits should begin early. If a child can acquire proper habits of eating, and sleeping; of elimination and of obedience to parents, his later life need give very little concern. Bad habits acquired in early childhood are great handicaps in the race of life. Tantrums?which may be defined as sudden and violent outbursts of anger, not properly controlled, may continue through life, to the detriment of the individual. Boys who acquire the tobacco habit early are rarely able to overcome it when they become men. Tobacco is a poison which undermines the will and makes the nerves unsteady and unreliable. Tobacco robs the muscles of strength, it weakens the heart, and hurts the character. Under no condition should children be permitted the use of tea and coffee. We find adults suffering from certain nervous disorders because as children they were allowed to use these beverages. An ounce of tea leaves may contain as much as twenty grains of poison, and this, if given in one dose, would poison a child. Pure water and good milk are the best and safest drinks. The emotions of fear, of jealousy, of destructiveness, and of anger must early be controlled. These have not only a weakening effect upon the character of the child, but they are very harmful to his physical well-being. The successful and happy life of the adult depends largely upon the daily hygiene of the child?hikes, play, exercise, food, study and cleanliness. The person who is unhappy, and in poor health, may be the one who has failed to acquire good health habits.
TEETH
The care of the teeth really begins with the mother before the child is born. Proper food during pregnancy will add much to the structure of good teeth?which are so necessary to health in later life. It is important for the expectant mother to eat vegetable soups, eggs, fish and chicken. It is better that she avoid pork and veal. An abundance of vegetables, both raw and cooked, LESSON DEPARTMENT will be very helpful to the baby's teeth. Cooked fruits may be taken, but fresh fruits are preferable. When a child is late in cutting teeth, it usually means the diet of the child is deficient, and it is necessary to consult a doctor. Some form of cod liver oil is very beneficial to the growing child because it furnishes some of the vitamins that are not found in the average diet. The brushing of the teeth at least twice daily is a health habit that should be established early in life. Such a habit will pay big dividends all through life. Cleanliness prevents decay and decay destroys teeth. Baby teeth should never be allowed to rapidly decay. The child should be taken to a dentist and his teeth filled before teeth begin to ache. An aching tooth tells a story of neglect. Some hard foods, such as raw vegetables should be eaten daily for the sake of the teeth. It is well to remember that milk, eggs and green vegetables are the types of food necessary to prevent the early decay of teeth. The old saying, "good teeth, good health," still rings true. Personal beauty is very much enhanced by the possession of a mouth full of good, clean teeth. The mouth should be cleaned of old roots. Decayed teeth are detrimental both to a sweet breath and to health. Headaches, neuralgia, rheumatism and even heart disease, have been traced to bad teeth. In all cases of chronic illness it is well to have the teeth X-rayed. Small abscesses and pus pockets found at the roots of bad teeth may have much to do with the cause of disease.
BATHING
A daily bath is not essential to health but it is a fine adjunct. There are whole races of people who never bathe. To people living in temperate and hot countries a daily bath is both refreshing and healthful. 201 The skin is one of the organs of elimination. It helps get rid of bodily poisons in much the same manner as our lungs and kidneys do. Bathing stimulates the action of the skin and increases its power to throw off poisons. A cleansing bath with hot water and soap is very necessary at least twice a week, to assist the skin in this process. Warm baths are sedative and are often used in hospitals to quiet excitability and the delirium of very nervous patients. A hot or a cold bath is often stimulating to body activities. A daily cold tub, while enjoyed by many, is not to be recommended for everyone, because of its sudden shock to the circulatory system. A valuable substitute, in the absence of water, is the so called air bath. Expose the body to the air and rub the skin vigorously with a rough towel. Such an air bath is quite stimulating and is a fair substitute if water is not available. Washing the hands always just before eating is a very important health habit. It is a common habit with most adults, but to a child it is a task, and only constant repetition can make the task lighter, until eventually it will be impossible for him to eat without washing. It must be remembered that about ninety per cent of all infections taken into the body enter by way of the mouth. It is very important that children acquire this habit of washing their hands before eating, and that they be constantly reminded that hands, pencils, and other objects should be kept away from the mouth.
SLEEP
Certain machines, such as engines and motor cars can keep going all day long without stopping for rest. Human beings cannot do this, and it is unwise to attempt it. Muscles become so tired that they will refuse to go on working. Long and continued effort, without proper rest, generates in our bodies certain poisons, or toxins, which are known as fatigue poisons. Rest is just as necessary as proper food to keep tempers and bodies in good order. When an animal is kept awake for a long time without rest it dies just as surely and sometimes as quickly as from starvation. Many people are suffering from sleep hunger. The number of hours of sleep required for good health varies with the age and with the occupation of the individual. Most children require from ten to twelve hours each day. It has been generally accepted that adults should have eight hours sleep, but in this fast moving age, many people need more, to renew their energy. Insufficient sleep is one of the causes of malnutrition as well as of nervousness and irritability. Ability to sleep is largely a matter of habit. It is desirable that the bedroom be quiet, that the windows be kept wide open and that an abundance of circulating fresh air be in sleeping rooms. To those who are troubled with insomnia, remember that a regular hour for retiring, a warm bath, a quiet room, a drink of hot milk, and a happy and contented state of mind, are simple measures conducive to restful sleep.
SUNLIGHT
It is only in recent years that science has recognized the value of sunlight as a cure for disease and as a very effective measure to keep people well. For hundreds of years, the plants have been making use of the sun's rays to build up their structures. But only recently has man come to realize the value of sunlight as a health measure. We know that direct sunlight will cure rickets. We know that the use of the sun's rays in the treatment of tuberculosis is most beneficial. We know that daily exposure of the body to the sun 202 importance of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE will enrich the blood by increasing its phosphorus, calcium and iron. We know that these minerals are essential to proper health. Growing babies require sunlight, as well as adults, and a five minute exposure to the sunlight twice daily for a growing baby has been found very healthful. Sunlight is death to germs. Many germs cannot stand the sun's rays even for one hour. Natural sunlight is most desirable to keep our homes free from disease germs and as a curative agent for many diseases. During the long winter months artificial sun baths may now be taken under Quartz Lamps. The ultra violet light obtained from such lamp is very beneficial, especially to the health of growing children. We cannot stress too much the importance of proper foods for growing children. "The child of today is the man of tomorrow," is an old phrase, but nevertheless true. The malnourished child is underweight, has dark circles beneath his eyes, is listless in school and is apt to be very irritable. By following the rules of health, and by forming proper food habits, such a child improves rapidly, both physically and mentally. A poorly nourished child is more susceptible to disease than a well nourished one. The responsibility that rests with parents in assisting the child to establish the proper food habits, is very great indeed. If mothers and fathers are meeting this responsibility properly along with the others, their children will develop into men and women whom they may well be proud of. We submit the following suggestions for the purpose of establishing proper food habits in children: First?"Meals should be regular." Second?"Persuasion, rather than command, should be used in getting children to eat what they profess to dislike." Third?"The child should not be LESSON DEPARTMENT 203 forced to eat when not hungry." Fourth?"Plenty of water should be given." Fifth?"Cleanliness is essential." Sixth?"Plenty of time should be allowed for meals." Seventh?"The child should be in a happy state of mind at meal time." Eighth?"A variety of food is required to furnish the needs of growing children." We suggest the following foods in the order of their importance: Milk, at least a pint a day and as much more as possible should be the first article in the diet of every child. If the child refuses milk, give him his share in the form of custards, milk soups, cream dishes, etc. Eggs, fish and meat are necessary foods in the diet of every child. Cereals and flours should make up at least one-third of the diet of the child. Cereals must be well cooked to make the starches more digestible. Vegetables are also an important factor in the diet of a child. All vegetables are good, but green vegetables are particularly rich in iron and vitamins. A child should have some fruit in its diet daily, and where it is impossible to obtain fresh fruit, dried fruits may be used. Children should never be given sweets between meals. They spoil the appetite and have a tendency to produce early decay of the teeth. The diets of children are very important because they produce to a great extent health habits which make or mar the lives later on. "The development and preservation of a strong and vigorous body does call for a certain amount of diligent and persistent application in the way of time and effort. But routine daily exercise, intelligent care in choosing one's food, and the observation of moderation in all life's habits?all these are admittedly justified by the joy of possessing abundant health and vitality."
Eyes! Defective vision. Us for complete information. Fine New Almost every child has good eyes, yet by the time he is mature, sixty chances out of a hundred are that he'll suffer Save your children's eyesight by giving them correct home lighting. It costs so little. Phone ELECTRICITY IS THE BIGGEST BARGAIN IN THE HOME UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
We can save you money on GOOD CHICKS. Live delivery guaranteed. Get our replacement offer on chicks that do not live. All kinds CHICKS?DUCKS?TURKEYS?SEX CHICKS. Place Your Order Now for Future Delivery and Be Safe. WE CARRY PIONEER AA?AAA CHICKS Purity Seeds VOGELER'S Purity Seeds "Best by Test" still lead. These seeds are from the best seed growers in all parts of the world, where the conditions are best for the production of each kind of seed. Place Your Orders Now. PET FOODS We carry a complete line of National advertised foods. also bowls and stands. VOGELERS 50 West 1st South?Wasatch 804 GOLD FISH We carry a fine grade of fish;
TEMPLE BRAND GARMENTS Of superior quality and workmanship manufactured for the SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE And sold at prices defying competition. Remember we Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States. When ordering from us
No. FOR LADIES 703 Flat Weave Spring Needle........$.98 736 Fine Quality Cotton Lt. Wt. 75 719 Ribbed Light Weight.................... 1.10 792 Fine Quality Cotton Lisle.......... 1.25 713 Light Weight Silk and Lisle...... 1.00 750 Non-Run Rayon......................-..... 1.00 762 Non-Run Rayon......................... 1.25 735 Light Weight Cotton Ribbed.......89 714 Medium Weight Cotton.............. 1.25
No. FOR MEN 662 Men's Non-Run Rayon...............$1.25 646 Fine Combed Cotton Lt. Wt......75 610 Ribbed Light Wt. Spring Needle 1.10 602 Extra Fine Quality Lisle............ 1.25 614 Med. Wt. Ex. Quality ............... 1.25 660 Silk, Wool, Cotton, Med. Wt..... 1.95 664 Med. Hvy. Wt. Cot. Double Back 1.65 601 Med. Weight New Style Only.... 1.25 680 Heavy Wt. Cotton unbleached.... 1.95
Garments Marked Upon Request. Prices Subject to Change Without Notice. 10c for Cotton?Silk 15c 20% Extra Charge for Sizes Over 46 Do not fail to specify New or Old Style and if for Man or Woman. Also state if long or short sleeve, short or long legs are wanted. Height and Weight. Give accurate Bust Measurements, Samples Sent Upon Request.
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 42 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah?OLDEST KNITTING STORE IN UTAH Complete Suits for Men and Women?Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices
 , Utah Telephone Wasatch 3286
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Positions are more plentiful? BUT? The day of self-made men is past. Real opportunities are coming only to those who are prepared. PARENTS: Is your son or your daughter idly waiting for "better times"? That idleness is dangerous! Investigate the training that is offered in your school. Write for the booklet, "Planning Your Future," or visit the school while it is in session. EVERY DAY IS REGISTRATION DAY L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City (A Department of the L. D. S. College) 70 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah Wasatch 1812
Now is the Time to gather together your last year's issues of the Relief Society Magazine and preserve permanently the valuable material they contain by having us bind them durably and attractively in black gold-stamped cloth. Price $1.50 per volume Special rates for quantities
The Deseret News Press PIONEER BINDERS, PRINTERS, RULERS MUSIC PRINTERS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
YES! IMPRESSIONS LEFT BEHIND Though our Daddy has gone. He provides for us still, For He thought of a way and it gives us a thrill, Each month Uncle Sam as sure as can be Brings a check from the Big Home Company. We sure love our Daddy for being so wise, Assuring our future the rest of our lives. Play Square With Your Family?Put Them On The Safe Side A Beneficial Life Representative Will Gladly Give You Particulars On The Contract Best Suited To Your Need?Also Facts Convincing You That IF IT'S A BENEFICIAL POLICY IT'S THE BEST INSURANCE YOU CAN BUY
HOME OFFICE SALT LAKE CITY J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT AXEL B. C. OHLSON, SECRETARY DAVID O. MCKAY, SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT LEO E. PENROSE, ASSISTANT SECRETARY JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH, DIRECTOR ORVAL W. ADAMS, DIRECTOR E. T. RALPHS, DIRECTOR STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN, DIRECTOR HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT GEORGE J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE-PRESIDENT