A Mother's Dream By Leaone Foutz Carson
"Rockabye baby in the tree top When the wind blows the cradle will rock When the bough bends the cradle will fall Down will come baby, cradle and all."
SLOWLY and more slowly rocked the chair and softer and more softly sang the voice as the song neared its end until gradually both came to a standstill. Then with Gary's dear little head pillowed on her arm and his blue eyes closed in sleep, Rena sat watching. First she looked long and lovingly at his sweet baby face and as countless mothers have already done and as countless mothers will always do, she began dreaming of her baby's future. As she sat there in the lullaby hour which marked the close of a busy day she seemed all at once to look backward instead of forward and these words, spoken of old by the Lord, flashed into her mind: "And I will take you one of a city and two of a family, and I will bring you to Zion."—Jeremiah 3:14, A MOTHER'S DREAM Yes, little Gary, this has surely been fulfilled as all of God's words will be in due time.
I fancy now I can see the bleak snowclad peaks of far away Scandinavia where people learn to overcome hardships of the severest kind in order to work out a meagre existence. It was there, little Gary, that your grandparents struggled to know and enjoy some of the finer things of life. Theirs was a serious life, their very souls being tried as they battled with the elements. Not much laughter for them as it takes sunshine to make people laugh. But this takes us on to sunny France where another family lived among flowers, sunshine and song. Life was kinder to them in many ways and it was given them to know the fine arts as well as the beauties of nature. And not far from these a small boy in wide plaited pantaloons and wooden shoes clattered down the streets of quaint old Holland where people understand what thrift, economy and sincerity mean to man. Ah yes! Gary, and across the channel a little browneyed girl played on the streets of the world's largest city. One day Queen Victoria attracted by this spotlessly clean child with her long curls and piercing eyes, stopped her fine carriage and gave the little girl a beautiful doll. Imagine, Gary! A queen giving your great grandmother a doll. Oh! But then she couldn't have been any dearer than you. Why any queen would stop to gaze at your plump little cheeks, your golden hair and wonderfully beautiful big blue eyes.
"And then came a marvelous work and a wonder. From somewhere afar came the voice of the, Good Shepherd and the words of the ancient prophet were fulfilled as each in his turn was gathered, one from a city and two from a family and brought to Zion. Ah! Little son! I can see them now crossing the 159 great Atlantic in small sailing vessels. They were months on the way with the Grim Reaper leaving only five out of thirteen of one family. Some, child, knew the beloved prophet, saw him and heard his voice, figured in the Haun's Mill Massacre, and later walked most of the way over the burning, trackless plains, over the rugged and dangerous cliffs to the peaceful valleys of the mountains. Here they helped to lay the plans for this great commonwealth, subdued the desert and conquered the Indians, leaving it all for you and for me to enjoy.
"Now what shall we do with this great heritage, son? Waste it? Oh, no! First of all mother and daddy will strive to be worthy examples for you little son, to follow. Then surely with the strength and fortitude of the north; with the sunshine and culture of the south; and with the honesty and steadfastness of merry England and thrifty Holland; and back of all these—the blood of Israel flowing in your veins, you cannot and you will not fail, will you Gary?
"Who knows? Some day you may walk in the halls of the legislature or enforce the laws in the courts of justice; or you may yet save mother's life by your knowledge of medicine or surgery, or best of all you may go to the nations of the earth and proclaim the everlasting gospel to many other honest souls who are anxiously awaiting this message of hope.
"There now! Just one little squeeze and it woke you up. But mother just had to love you a tiny bit. Anyone would who looked at your little round face and dimpled hands. Oh! How our Heavenly Father blessed us when He sent you, one of His choice spirits to us, for us to care for and raise to serve Him. Oh, Gary! I hear daddy coming! Let's run to meet him."