A Promise Fulfilled By Theodore Martineau MONG the many who were left homeless through the Exodus from the Mormon Colonies in Mexico in 1912 was Mrs. Fannie C. Harper, owner of the Harper House in Colonia Juarez. Mrs. Harper had for years taken a prominent part in the Women's organizations of the Juarez Stake and after the death of her husband, some years previously, had continued to carry on the hotel business in Colonia Juarez. With all of the property accumulated through years of toil swept away by the Revolution, Mrs. Harper found herself an exile in the Village of R...... W..... In Utah where she had relatives living. While here she received a blessing in which she was promised that on her return to the Colonies, her life would be safe and she should regain possession of her property and thus enjoy the fruits of years of labor. Having an abiding faith in this. Promise, and with but little to lose and much to gain Mrs. Harper made the return journey only to find on her arrival that the Villa soldiers then occupying the town had made her home their headquarters. The building was now occupied by about one hundred soldiers, who promptly and very decisively denied her request that they vacate her home. Repeated requests met with the same result, and it looked as if the promise our sister had received in her blessing might never be realized. But Sister Harper was of that type of character whose faith never wavers. So she watched her chance which came on a day when the garrison was called out to meet an approaching enemy, only six men being left to guard the Cuartel. Not anticipating even the remotest possibility of a lone woman daring to molest their home during their absence, this guard strayed away for a short pasear, only to find on their return, Mrs. Harper and a native woman busy in throwing out their possessions, bag and baggage. Expostulation, entreaty and even dire threats made no impression on the subject of our sketch, who calmly proceeded to wash and scrub and' scrape away the accumulated trash. Nor could the returning troops, either by persuasion or threats, prevail upon Sister Harper to let them again occupy her home, much to their chagrin. She lives there still in the enjoyment of her home, and still, as of yore, dispenses the hospitality for which her house has so long been famous. As a friend, counselor, and mother to the younger generation, Sister Harper well deserves the friendship and love of all her acquaintances, of whatever race or color, and it is a pleasure to bear record that these are hers in rich abundance. D. AWilliams ~ KEEP CLEAN "No life can be pure in its purpose and strong in its strife And all life not be purer and stronger thereby." —Owen Meredith. CLEANLINESS is an essential C quality of all culture, refinement, arid beauty. But it is greater than any condition it ever graces: for it is indispensable to health and even life itself. It is the vibrant silver current that vitalizes the moral structure of civilization. It is the iron in the wine of life, that prevents disintegration. Truly, "Cleanliness is akin to godliness." An environment that is not clean breeds misery and disease. The body that becomes defiled is in mortal danger. A life that is polluted soon falls into suffering and generally ends in black despair. The morally corrupted nation is the nation that is wiped from the map by the finger of righteousness. Nature refuses to tolerate uncleanliness, and "The Spirit of God will not dwell in an unclean tabernacle." Nature has a regular and thorough 60 Sessclves for the 'Treasure Chest of Life By Lella M. Hoggan system of house cleaning. She lends us her two greatest cleansers, water and sunshine, in order that we, too, may clean our habitations. When the Master found his Father's Temple defiled, he cleansed it by casting out the thieves and money changers. Should not we, too, cleanse our tabernacles when we find them becoming cluttered with the things that detract from their holiness? And is not a mental house cleaning quite as necessary as a physical one? Fear, anger, hatred, and all of their kin, literally poison the system and lower the morale of anyone who tolerates them. There is a dignity and self-respect in cleanliness. It is a fact, that one may change her mental attitude from one of gloom and forboding, to one of hopeful expectancy, by having a warm bath and changing to clean, pretty raiment. The careful details of personal cleanliness are the badges of culture and refinement, and should be the expression of moral character. "My strength is as the strength of ten Because my heart is pure." David Starr Jordan says, "Not to escape temptation but to master it, is the way of righteousness." And Apostle Paul uttered one of the greatest truths of life when he said, "For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption: but he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting."—Gal. 6:8. The broad, easy road of weakness and sin leads down to degeneration and despair; while the narrow path of self-denial, self-restraint, and self-control,