AGE By Claire S. Boyer
She sorted out her past days quietly, and put the fair ones in a mental vase, distilling days as if they might be rose leaves, the fragrance lingering upon Her face
Relief Society Teachers By Lotta Paul Baxter
MANY are the activities and means of expression in Relief Society work. Whichever line of endeavor one decides to analyze, she is prone to become overenthusiastic about it. One reason why the Relief Society teacher and her work are so interesting is the fact that her work is the oldest division outside of the presidency, and was inaugurated one year after the society was organized. It has stood the test of time, and year by year is growing in importance. For many years the duties and principal activities of the teacher were collecting donations. These consisted largely of merchandise, which were laboriously carried to the business meeting, there to be redistributed to the needy—a task requiring another visit with a heavy load. Her work involved looking after the physical well being of the people on her district, feeding the hungry, nursing the sick, performing the last sacred service for the dead. So skillful and Christlike in manner were these services usually performed, that in countless homes through the intermountain region are heard today expressions of appreciation for these ministrations. In 1916 the General Board prepared and suggested the use of topics to be used in the homes, but not until 1923 were these topics a required subject. They are the uniform outlines published in the Relief Society Magazine each month. At this time the teacher became an educator in a specific field, and every month these topics are discussed in a large number of homes throughout the Church.
THE strength and power of the teacher for good in each community at once arrests the attention of the investigator. A unit twentyfour thousand strong, working in harmony with, and under the direct supervision of, the general presidency—this fact is a testimony of the perfection of the mother organization and an illustration of the ability of groups to work together, when blessed with the spirit of their calling. The general organization is the background which gives strength, dignity, and usefulness to the work of the teacher and makes its existence possible.
THE Relief Society teacher is not a hit or miss visitor, going where she pleases, when she pleases, at any and all times. She is called to do a specific piece of work among a distinct group, with whom she becomes acquainted and in whom she is personally interested. Their sorrows are her sorrows, their joys are her joys. The people of the district become attached to these faithful visitors who come to their homes with such regularity and with such richness of spirit that the people are reluctant to have them taken to another group.
WITHOUT desiring to cause an unsettled feeling in the work of the teaching corps, we nevertheless recommend a change of teachers on certain districts by the ward president whenever she deems such change desirable. Where this procedure has been tried we have noted a beneficial effect both to the visitor and to the visited. Educationally, it 150 has had a broadening tendency. Whether the teacher is left on the district over a long period of time, or whether she is asked to take a new one, rests entirely with the presidency of each ward.
WHAT greater tribute can be paid to any individual than to say she is honest? Honest with herself, with her associates and with her God? In public service, there is frequently a feeling of irresponsibility and sometimes a distinctly dishonest attitude in accounting for funds entrusted to the care of chosen officials. No feeling of this kind should creep into transactions of the Relief Society; for this work sets the teacher apart as a woman who can be trusted. I have before me the 1933 Annual Report, which is a most interesting and informative pamphlet. Adding the three funds handled by the teachers—namely, the annual dues, the general fund, and the charity fund—we have a total of over $175,000.00. When you take into consideration that at a low estimate, five thousand women handled this fund, and that every cent received was duly accounted for and turned over to the proper authority, you must agree that we have much reason for pride and gratitude. In the teacher's hand is a little book in which a sacred record is kept of all donations received on her district. She should never allow that book to fall into strange hands, for no one but the teacher and the ward presidency should see the record it contains.
I HAVE written below a few of the "mechanics" of teaching.
1. Always be prepared with topic and present it as best you can.
2. When approaching homes be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE careful in conversation. Many misunderstandings have drifted in through open doors and windows.
3. Always have the teacher's book with you.
4. Always ask how the donation is to be divided.
5. Never say "This is the first donation received."
6. Never use donations to make change in your home. Mistakes occur.
7. Never let your children make the notation of donation received.
8. Never let the hostess take the book to write in her donation.
These may seem small warnings to make; but their violation has caused much trouble where no harm was intended.
I BELIEVE that in the heart of every woman there is a desire to give to some one something she may possess. It may be material gifts, it may be service, it may be love; sometimes it is all three, and yet she lacks the initiative to express herself and to contact the right individual. The Relief Society teacher has the opportunity to pave the way for the fulfillment of all these desires. None more competent than she to take care of donations. None more resourceful to open the door of service to all who wish to serve. None more capable than she to direct the yearning for love from one woman to another. Over a period of years I have eagerly listened to instructions given and tributes paid to Relief Society teachers and have thrilled to the beauty of all that was said; but I still believe that the possibilities and opportunities in this field have scarcely been opened. We have been good teachers, we can be better; we have comforted many, we can comfort more.
Social Activity in the Relief Society By Achsa E. Paxman
THE Social Diversion in Relief Society is one of vital importance. Every woman needs the play spirit introduced in her work and in the serious thoughts of life. It is nature's way of developing and keeping mothers young and physically fit. Play does for the mind precisely what exercise does for the body—relaxes, strengthens, vivifies. The Relief Society organization is strengthened in many ways where it plans delightful play time or social affairs for the members. What is lovelier than to see Relief Society women of various ages enjoying a well planned social entertainment. One is always impressed with the democratic atmosphere of all these parties. Women poor, women rich, educated women, and women of meager learning are all made welcome and heartily participate in the social atmosphere. For many women, the Relief Society is the only medium of social activity, consequently it is important that the organization plans sufficient social entertainment to meet the needs of all. "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy." "Variety is the spice of life." We may apply this philosophy to Relief Society. An interesting party gives a change from the expected routine; introduces the play spirit and produces relaxation; adds a more intimate friendliness; increases interest and attendance at Relief Society meetings.*
*The National Recreation Association, 315 4th Avenue, New York City, will send suggestions for interesting parties, games, and entertainment programs for a small fee. Write for a free catalogue. A few suggestions: Old time games, 10 cents, Progressive Contest Party, 5 cents, Radio Mystery Party, 5 cents, Twice 55 Games with music, 25 cents, What can we do (Social games and Stunts), 25 cents.
Social gatherings may be marred or improved according to the greetings and reception given the guests upon their arrival. A cordial welcome and a hearty handshake at once helps the recipient to acquire an attitude of sociability, which is a great asset for a successful and enjoyable afternoon. The reception committee should arrange for introductions to be made that all may be acquainted. It is also fine to promote a general handshaking with all as they assemble. The following are suggestive social diversions that every ward may schedule during the year. Opening Social held in September. Party in honor of Visiting Teachers or Outgoing Officers. Christmas Party. Membership Social in February. Anniversary Celebration in March. Work and Business Exhibit Party. Strawberry Festival. Canyon Party or other Summer Festival. Work and Business Day each month also gives a splendid opportunity to introduce varieties of social diversions. The Ward that gives an outstanding Opening Social in the Fall and succeeds with a fine attendance at the Social has attained much toward a successful year.
THE following is a brief description of an Opening Social of 1934: The Presidency sent postcards to 152 each woman in the ward inviting her to attend a Social and Luncheon. Each invitation assigned a small responsibility which added to the personal interest in the affair. Results: 150 women in attendance from a 136 enrollment with 36 children in the nursery. At 2:30 p. m. A delightful program was given which included an original play introducing the Relief Society Magazine. Following the program, games were played which secured the participation of every woman. Then a jolly crowd went to another hall where a delicious luncheon was served on beautifully set tables. Everyone left the social afternoon with joy and laughter in their hearts and a greater love for Relief Society and the friends with whom they had mingled.
Christmas Party. At this interesting time of the year many lovely things can be done to make the party novel and entertaining. One of our wards gave a sumptuous turkey dinner. The long tables were beautiful with Christmas decorations. The delicious food was perfectly served. An unusual program of music along with an original play were presented by Relief Society women. Toasts and gifts of appreciation were given to the honored guests, who were the women of the Relief Society past seventy years. One hundred and fortyfive women enjoyed the afternoon. Indeed, much time and effort was given to make this affair delightfully successful but the good accomplished in uniting the women, in advertising Relief Society, and in the evident RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE joy of the participants was more than compensation for the hours of work required in the preparation.
Work and Business Exhibit Party. Prepare a program including original poems, stories, songs, etc. Introduce contest games as a social mixer. Serve light refreshments. Arrange exhibition of hand work. Visiting Teacher's Socials are among the most important and most appreciated of parties. They may be made simple or elaborate but whatever is done is a gesture of appreciation for the fine service of the teachers and the good they are accomplishing. At least once a year, it is desirable to have a Stake Social in order that the women of the several wards may mingle together. The anniversary Celebration may be chosen for this. Some of the finest entertainment programs and socials have been given by organizations of the Relief Society. It is interesting to note the originality displayed in making these affairs both unique and joyful. A group of women, belonging to another church, were invited to participate with the Relief Society at an Anniversary Celebration. They were delighted with the unusual program and appreciated the welcome accorded them. These women have been greater friends ever since and even send contributions to help in the charity work.