The Gathering By Lydia Burrows Music. READER: "Music, God is its author; and not man. He laid the keynote of all harmonies. He planned all perfect combinations and He made us so that we can hear and understand." Music: "Oh, How Lovely was the Morning." (1827. Joseph Smith in attitude of Prayer.) CURTAIN Music: "Praise to the Man." (1830. The Organization of the Church. Joseph Smith and counselors.) CURTAIN Music: "The Morning Breaks, the Shadows Flee." (1842. The Organization of the Relief Society. First Presidency with Joseph Smith standing.) REAVER: "March 17th, did you say? The Relief Society was organized and we commemorate the day. God's laws seemed to raise woman to a higher plan, She was needed in his cause And must work along with man. So she seemed to lead the race When she found again her place, And from that day in 1842, her work began." CURTAIN Music: "Come, Saints." (1847. Pioneers with Brigham Young around camp fire singing. Eliza R. Snow prays, using "Prayer of the Trail," prize poem; Jan. Mag., 1934.) Come, Ye CURTAIN Music: "In Our Lovely Deseret." (Beehive, State emblem, on stage, center back.) READER: "Gathering from all corners of the earth Come saints from every tongue and clime, To us, they bring their gifts divine." (Nations, in couples, come on stage in native costumes and go into hive, while their National music is played. America goes into hive last and returns with flag.) Music: "Star Spangled Banner." (Congregation) (Couples come out of hive dressed in civilian clothes, and stand on sides of stage.) READER: "Our church is a composite of all peoples, all lands, all ages. Its fundamentals are beauty. One aim, one faith, one goal, the hand of fellowship is extended to all. 4. Music: "Love at Home." (while verse is read) READER: HUMAN TOUCH "°Tis the human touch in this world that counts, The touch of your hand and mine, Which means far more to the fainting heart Than shelter and bread and wine. For shelter is gone when the night is o'er. And the bread lasts only a day. But the touch of the hand and the sound of the voice Sing on in the soul alway." "The L. D. S. Church is a wonderful organization considered from a sociological point of view. Our Word of Wisdom, so say scientists, 170 is an exceptionally fine document and if observed, people would become famous for their physical and mental vigor. "Relief Society members look with pride at our church organization, and the opportunities it offers for self-expression and growth. The door has been opened for woman. Although we are chiefly concerned with home and our children, it is impossible to forego the frequent mention of the Greeks and peoples of ages back, who have bequeathed to us models of architecture, and sculpture, as well as models of the drama, and other literary types, which have served as "'well-springs" of inspiration to all subsequent ages. "Man is that he might have joy. Experience teaches us that service to others, that type of unselfish ser-. Vice, which expects no reward, brings real joy. Such as our angels of mercy who go from house to house, (enter two visiting teachers) who care for the sick, bless the old, help the ones in need, no matter who or where they are, but to them all give heed." (One teacher kneels down by child with bandaged head, then they cross the stage and one pins a rose on an old lady.) READER: "The Relief Society in 1902 felt the crying need for department work as our organization stands out from all others, not because it's the oldest, not because it was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, not because of its size, others may be larger; but primarily because of its effectiveness and efficiency. The spirit of Relief Society is the spirit of service in its broadest and finest sense. It grips those who come under its influence and lifts them heavenward. All women are welcome, all are needed. "The richness of our programs make it interesting to young as well as older ones. It will make woman RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE more attractive, more charming, more successful in her sphere of action. The training she gets in this organization will make her a better wife, better mother and a happier woman. "In 1923 the E. R. Snow memorial poem contest was established in honor of this pioneer poet and great woman leader, not only to perpetuate her memory by bringing it before the readers of our wonderful magazine each year in January, her natal month, but to encourage our ladies to cultivate the gifts of poetic expression and high ideals as she so beautifully exemplified them. 96 poems of quality and worth were sent in. Each year a notable improvement in quality of composition is seen. Most all are worthy of publication in our magazine, which has a circulation of 31,000." (Prize Poem if you want tt.) (Song, "Our Magazine," by chorus dressed in R. S. Colors. Dec. Mag., 1933.) READER: "The magazine comes once a month as a messenger of inspiration and consolation, filled with rare gems, poems, short stories, making us realize today as never before that we must constantly readjust to changing conditions. "Relief Society sisters must keep abreast of Truth. In our organization we have talented women to supervise art, work and business. Really they are the cash registers as well as lending a touch of color and refinement to our homes. (Enter teachers displaying sample of 'year's work.) Everyone is affected by color and order, consciously or unconsciously. We cannot escape from it if we would. In our homes, color creates the atmosphere which has an effect on our thoughts, our moods and actions. If used correctly it is a force that enriches home life. You may have a home beautiful by comTHE GATHERING ing to our art class, 'Work and Business Dept.' "THE BoaRD OF ARBITRATION." (The Presidency enter followed by Secretary.) READER: "Presidents three, where all troubles are ironed out, and then comes one who records our acts and deeds, be they good or bad, who can say? As we weave into this mesh of life, a thread each day. This we hope, that when the last thread shall be woven in, God grant it be love instead of sin. "Tis God to judge, deny the fact who can The proper study of mankind is man.' (Literary Teacher takes her place on stage.) READER: "The literary teacher acts as a guide as we travel over land or sea. How fascinating to have the fellowship of great men, that have gone, to meet men and women with their halos of glory, to travel if only in dreams or fancy. 'Tis like the memory of golden days, the serene midsummer evenings, or the dawn over wild lands, the briar rose, singing of birds, little tales told by the fire of long, long ago. 'Tis the entrance to fairyland, so to speak. The wise literary teacher always brings us safely home with a longing to go again. "We also have one who understands human nature, the Social Service teacher, who with skill and care helps us over many rough places in life, with our joys in rearing a family." (Social Service Teacher comes in while this is being read.) (Mother comes on stage with child, 6 or 7.) READER: "A builder builded a temple, He wrought it with care and skill— Pillars and groins and arches, All fashioned to his will. 171 And men said as they saw _ its beauty, 'It never shall know decay, Great is thy skill, O builder, Thy fame shall endure alway.' "' (Child goes off stage and boy comes in, standing by mother.) READER: "A mother builded a temple With infinite and loving care, Planning each arch with patience, Laying each stone with prayer. None praised her unceasing effort, None knew of her wondrous plan, For the temple; by the mother builded Was unseen by the eye of man." (As the boy goes out a bridal couple come in arm in arm, from other side of stage.) READER: "Gone is the builder's temple— Crumbled into dust, Low lies each stately pillar, Food for consuming rust. But the temple the mother builded Will last while the ages roll, For that beautiful unseen temple Held a child's immortal soul." (Here, come over and kiss mother. She shakes hands with groom, waves handkerchief as they go out.) (Theology Teacher goes in with scroll and stands in center of stage.) READER: "The Theology Teacher is the one who interprets the scriptures. For the last three years we have been studying the Doctrine and Covenants, the book of laws to the church. "Hearken, O ye people of my Church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, hearken ye people from afar, and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together. "For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape, and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall 172 not hear, neither heart that shall not be penetrated. ""God's decrees never fail. "Thus sayeth the Lord, I am willing to make these things known unto all flesh, for I am no respecter of persons." (Pages come in and take hold of scroll and unroll it. Upon tt is written, "The Glory of God is Intelligence.") Music: 'The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning."' (Congregation.) READER: "All in all we are living in a wonderful day. Not withstanding the lawlessness on every hand, while crimes of appalling cruelty are common occurrences, while poverty has stalked through the earth, while war clouds hover over many lands, yet never has there been more opportunities, more more willingness to abide the Golden Rule and more faith to seek first the Kingdom of God and all other things that are righteous. "Wealth may take wings and fly away, but knowledge is everlasting.” (Pages cross to center stage and understanding,. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE take book, which the Work and Business teachers have handed to President. They turn pages on which © are written "KNOWLEDGE," "OPPORTUNITY," and "RELIEF SOCIETY." READER: "Knowledge is the golden ladder over which we climb to heaven. Knowledge is the light which illuminates our path through this life and leads us to a future life of everlasting glory. "Opportunity is knocking at your door. (turn page) "Will you ladies come and join us each Tuesday at two o'clock p.m.? (turn page) "Remember, the clock of life is wound but once, And no one has the power, To tell just when the hands shall stop, At late or early hour. Now is the only time we own, Live, love, toil with a will Place no faith in tomorrow, The clock may then be still." Music: Closing song, "Opportunity," Dec. Mag., 1933.