Class Work By Mary C. Kimball THE Relief Society through its various activities is developing its members spiritually, mentally and physically. One of its major features is its class work. Each week the women assemble in clean, well-ventilated and attractive rooms to listen to and participate in lesson work. These lessons have been prepared by experts in their line. The educational opportunities, the spiritual inspiration and cultural enthusiasm afforded cannot be fully realized. This great educational program has drawn into the Relief Society thousands of women. Many of them who have hungered for educational opportunities, have found in these classes the inspiration, incentive and direction they have longed for. Many have become so well informed that they have been asked where they got their training. Few realize how far-reaching are the effects of the classwork carried on in the Relief Society. It reaches women who live on farms and in cities. The hunger that there is in every normal heart for growth has in Relief Society classwork found appeasement. Thousands of women who have not had the opportunities of a college education are getting training equal to that received in uni-versities through their Relief Society courses, and those who have had the benefits of university work find joy in studying authors they enjoyed years before and widening their knowledge of these authors and their books. The interest there awakened in subjects and people will last through life. The information there gained gives fine material for conversation in the home. Adult education is one of the great movements of the day, and we know of no finer way of carrying on adult education than is done in the Relief Society. Here friends and neighbors, those who know and understand each other, meet under the most desirable conditions near their own home. These women of like ideals but of different intellectual powers, because they love and understand each other, participate freely in the class discussion and ask questions. The information there obtained has been a great help to mothers when their children have asked questions and the children have looked with admiration on their mothers who answered their questions intelligently and gave the help they needed in their school work. One woman who gave excellent service teaching literary lessons in her organization, when visiting her daughter's English teacher showed such knowledge of writers and books that she was asked in what college she received her excellent training. She replied, "I Left school when I was fourteen. My education has come through the classes offered in the Relief Society." One woman lived on a ranch and felt that her life was drab and ugly. She was persuaded to go to Relief Society meetings. She said, "What water is to the thirsty land, these lessons have been to my hungry soul. They changed my life; they gave me an interest and joy; they opened up new fields, and have enriched my life." "THOUSANDS have not only found enjoyment and develop166 ment but direction and impetus in their reading and have had the satisfaction that comes from communicating with great minds through these lessons. Since reading is a creative process, through the impetus of these lessons, these women have constantly reinterpreted books. Their emotions and imaginations have been aroused and often their creative power called forth. Through the rereading of books, they have discovered that great books grow with their maturing experience, that other books do not, and thus they have learned to distinguish a great book from those of less worth. MORE and more people are realizing the need of religion if one is to lead a happy, normal life. Theo-Logical studies during the past years in the Relief Society have given the women a knowledge of the Scriptures and a spiritual uplift. They have studied Gospel Dispensations from Adam down to the present dispensation of the fulness of times. They have considered some social aspects of the life of Jesus, Parables of the Savior, Women of the Bible, Gospel Themes, the Twelve Apostles, Genealogy, The Book of Mormon and The Doctrine and Covenants. Thus have they become familiar with the teachings of the restored Gospel and have been inspired to live better lives. In the testimony meetings following the theology lessons, they have poured out their hearts in gratitude to the Giver of every blessing. In this sacred communion, they have learned to understand each other better and love each other more. N the literary lessons, one of the most readily available sources of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE culture, they have found great delight. The literature has satisfied a soul-hunger. It has brought those who have followed its gleam into communion with great minds, in rapport with beauty of thought and expression, for literature is a storehouse of the best thoughts most beautifully expressed of all the ages. During the years the Relief Society has had literary lessons, it has studied the greatest writers and the greatest books of all time. IN the Social Service Department, lessons have been studied on home economics, public health, social studies of local communities, standards of living, child welfare, personality studies and social reformers. These lessons have been practical and have been applied in the training of the children, in the bettering of homes and communities and the personal improvement of the members. HE Relief Society has made continuous progress since its organization. During its reign women have been accorded greater opportunities than ever before in the world's history. Universities and colleges have opened their doors to them. Suffrage with all its attendant benefits has come. Every field of endeavor is being entered and the achievements of women in many lines are outstanding. One barrier after another has been removed as the women in their Relief Society classes study these things they realize that the key has been turned and that knowledge and intelligence has increased since, their great organization was effected by the Prophet Joseph Smith.