Oo Friendship Formed in Our Work By Inez Knight Allen FRIEND is one attached to A another by esteem and affection." — Webster. Another has said "A friend is one who knows our faults and loves us still." A friend is one who turns a deaf ear to evil report, who shares joys and sorrows and who manifests sympathy and tenderness to another in all kinds of experiences. "THROUGH the Relief Society organization, groups throughout the Church are bound together by the strongest bonds of friendship. Being organized by the Priesthood, and given definite responsibility in behalf of all members at once creates a common interest. Each active member of the group knows that as she does, so each other member puts forth effort and makes adjustments at home in the interest of the work. All have the same objectives. Some weakness and some ability is common to each one. All rejoice over the success and happiness of others. All are eager to help where there is sickness or death in the community. Together they grieve with parents whose son perchance has gone away because he could find no work and whose manhood rebelled against depending on father and mother who are in financial distress. They are concerned with the young woman in love but whose lover is unable to provide necessities to begin independent life. In unison they mourn when one of the flock falls by the wayside in sin. There is a sympathetic tolerant desire to reclaim and prevent repetition. Some _ one's child wins distinction at school, and all feel the reflected honor. Everyone is cheered by the happy marriage of the children and by the birth of the babies. Promotions in the Church among members is cause for thanksgiving. Through the Relief Society organization they unite, pooling their talents and resources to the end of helping all to realize their righteous desires. When there are meetings or conventions, each one on the prograin knows the fear and trembling which accompanies each of the others who have special parts to take, and they pray each for the other to do her best. As each officer seeks in humility the help of the Lord, she knows the others do the same. They are seeking for the good in every one. Confidence is established in the understanding heart of one another, and they exchange experiences dear to them. Through this exchange of human hopes and disappointments, their souls are mellowed with tolerance and tenderness one toward another. They sense the meaning of the Savior when he said, "The Lord maketh his sun to shine on the evil and on the good and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust." Souls of women thus laboring shine through adversity and prosperity. One beholds not alone the face and the raiment but the glorious spirit within. They seem lifted above temporal wealth or poverty, and they mingle in a more spiritual realm of equality, appreciating superior human and permanent values. Slightly paraphrasing what the poet said, they are many souls with but a single thought, many hearts that beat as one. "THE educational plan enables all to grow in knowledge and de168 velop in righteousness. They find keen joy in these studies. In the leisure hours they enjoy one another. Such fine social affairs, small yet tremendous in scope, allow personal relaxation and increase companionship. Thus working together with mutual RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sympathy and similar interest enriches lives with the most precious friendships. One truly feels all are children of the same Father. To laugh and play and sing together, to work and weep and pray toegther is real comradeship. Thank God for true friendships.