Julia Alleman Child By Jennie Brimhall Knight
"Oh, may I learn to love to give, And for the sake of others live. My sweetest joy be mine to know That I have lessened others' woe."
THESE words from the pen of one of her teachers might be said to be the epitome of the life of our beloved sister and coworker, Julia A. Child, who was born September 8, 1873, and died January 23, 1935. It is always sad to say farewell to those we love, but there is compensation in the thought that they have gone to receive their reward and are at rest from pain. Although we shall miss her words of counsel and her expressions of faith, in fancy we may see her sparkling eyes and winsome smile, and hear her pleasant voice. We needs must say that God is just and good. We are consoled with the fact that through the years of labor and close association with her, we have painted a beautiful picture that will hang on memory's wall while time shall last.
JULIA ALLEMAN was the only daughter of Benjamin Alleman and Sarah Starr. Her childhood home, situated on the main street in Springville, Utah, is still occupied by members of her father's family. Julia had a happy childhood. Adored and petted by her two brothers, she was never spoiled. She was affectionately devoted to her family, and being industrious, she found great satisfaction and joy helping her mother with the household duties. Her parents, who were of pioneer stock, thrifty and energetic, made a comfortable and hospitable home where their children's friends always found a hearty welcome. Julia's keen mind, sunny disposition and merry laughter made her a favorite among the children at school in her home town. She began her work at the Brigham Young Academy at Provo while Dr. Karl G. Maeser was the president. Here she was a diligent and apt student. Her popularity among the young folks was evidenced by many admirers. After graduation she taught school for a number of years in Springville. Her work was of such high merit that she filled engagements in various summer school and teacher institutes both in Utah and Idaho. In addition to her professional and home life she devoted many hours as teacher and officer in various organizations of her Church. She was a counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A. Of the Springville Second Ward and held a like position in the LeGrande Ward of Salt Lake City. She later was a member of the stake board and counselor in the Liberty Stake in the same organization. When on April 1, 1924, Clarissa S. Williams became the General President of the National Women's Relief Society, Julia A. Child was chosen as a member of the general board, which position she held until the day she was chosen to be second counselor to President Louise Y. Robison, October 7, 1928. In these positions she has shown marked ability, good judgment and poise. She was chairman of the educational activities of the organization. It was while Miss Alleman was teaching school that she met and finally married George N. Child, then superintendent of the schools of Utah County. To them were born a daughter whom they named Julia, JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD 158 and two sons, John and Richard. Their marriage made of Mrs. Child a dual mother. Mr. Child having buried his charming wife was left with a family of six small children. He chose Miss Alleman to be his wife and their mother. Their family life was quite ideal. They enjoyed many successes together and shared each other's sorrows until death called Mr. Child in the prime of life, July 12, 1932. Mrs. Child faced the situation with surprising faith and courage, and throughout the remaining years, although wracked with pain she still held to her idea of lessening others' woe and did not complain. How well she performed her part as the other mother can best be explained by the words of her stepdaughter who said, "she has been an angel in our home." The world has need of such splendid young people as the children they have left. In All her public life she was recognized as a woman with ability and charm. She was calm in her deliberations, wise in her counsel. She was tolerant and decidedly careful and considerate of the opinions and feelings of others. She was a wise and loyal counselor to President Robison, and they spent RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE many happy hours together, among them being their attendance at the Congress of Women held in Chicago, July, 1933. Mrs. Child participated in the ceremonies at the erection of the Relief Society Monument at Nauvoo, Illinois, on July 27, 1933. She worked earnestly for the advancement of the Relief Society in all the stakes and missions of the Church and wherever she went, her instructions were well received and she always made friends. She gave freely of her time, her talent and her love. Being blessed with faith and unusual patience she taught all of those who were fortunate enough to know her how sublime a thing it is to suffer and be strong.
THE Psalmist said: Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord, and who shall stand in His Holy Place. He that hath clean hands and a pure heart, who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully. If ascending the hill means living the Gospel of Jesus Christ, Sister Child has ascended that hill, and if his Holy place means Heaven, we are satisfied that she stands in his Holy place with her loved ones.