Great Salt Lake and Its Islands By Elizabeth C. Porter-Rissanen The somber islands ride in a sullen sea. Although the white man's knowledge of the Great Salt Lake dates back only a hundred years, the mountain peaks that rise above the surface of this saline sea have already made their own history. The Water of the Lake Most of the islands lack fresh water and are therefore uninhabitable. For the rest, the water of the Great Salt Lake offers the finest bathing in the world. It is so heavy with salt that the human body can float on it like a cork, and it is so dense that it holds the warmth of the sun long after that orb has sunk into its sea burial.: One enterprising matron floated a round dinner table fully set on the buoyant waters and her guests swam up and helped themselves to viands buffet style. While reclining luxuriously on his back, the bather may view the gorgeous sunset, painted with the rugged colors and imbued with the mystery of the North. Nearby is the new Saltair, the modern Moorish pleasure palace, risen, like Venus, new-born, from the sea. Jim Bridger Discovered It Profit is the first thing that lures men into the unknown places, so we find the fur traders in the vanguard of civilization. To Jim Bridger belongs the credit of the discovery of the Great Salt Lake. In fact his description of the saline sea helped earn for him the title of prince of prevaricators. He had found that his stories of Yellowstone Park were not believed, especially when he described pools cool in the bottom and hot on top, so you could catch a fish and cook it on the way out. He was acting as scout for the fur hunters camped on Bear River. They had a rendezvous for their skins in the nearby "Cache" valley. A dispute arose among the men as to the course of the river. Bridger volunteered to settle it as wagers had been posted. He followed the Bear to its mouth where it emptied into the lake, when the immense sheet of water burst upon his view. The scout waded out into the lake and found that it prickled his skin. The only thing that lives in this water is a minute brine shrimp, one of the two things in the world known to have no natural enemies. On the west shore of the lake, Jim Bridger set traps for beaver. New SALTAIR PAVILION AND BATHERS, GREAT SALT LAKE Photo Courtesy Union Pactfic System GREAT SALT LAKE AND ITS ISLANDS 411 When he reported his find, the rest of the trappers sailed down in their boats of skins—Englishmen, Frenchmen, and Americans, in search of pelts. Like the Uite Indians that preceded them, they found the hunting poor. This was in the winter of 1825. Captain Bonneville's Expeditions Captain Bonneville, a young army officer on leave, outfitted several fur-hunting expeditions to this region. He provided them with luxurious equipment. One of these, the Walker party, intended to explore the country, but they found the northwest shore a barren desert. Sorely harassed by Indians, they trekked over the mountains to California. This was in 1832. Bonneville gave his name to the immense fresh water lake which formerly covered the Great basin, of which the Salt Lake is but the shrunken remnant. Fossils of this early time may be found in the cave at Garfield; the old level of the lake may be discerned on the terraces of the mountains. At Garfield the mountains come down to the water's edge. Out in the opalescent sea looms Black Rock, like a medieval castle. On the blue and lavender expanse float the other islands like dim mirages. Terraced up the slopes of the point of the mountain are the Arthur and the Magna plants and the American Smelting and Refining Company, where the copper is extracted from ore that is torn from the mountain at Bingham. Birds of the Salt Lake Gulls, pelicans, herons, and snipe undulate in the water. Except the snipe, their home is on Bird Island. These aquatic fowls nest on this small island, which has neither food nor fresh water. Both of these are brought by the parent birds from the mainland 40 miles away. This is the summer home of the winged colony; for the great white pelicans winter on the Gulf of Mexico and the sea gulls hie to the Pacific Coast. There is a $100 fine for killing a sea gull in Utah because gulls were the savior birds of the pioneers. When the young grain of the settlers was being eaten by vast armies of crickets—bull-headed, blackhumped things, twice as large as a grasshopper—the gulls swept in from the lake and devoured these insects—thus saving the crops. On the Tabernacle grounds a monument has been erected to them—the only statue it is said, ever erected to a bird. A visitor to Bird Island in June thus describes it: We paid particular attention to the nesting habits of the birds, and to the marvelous rookeries similar to those one reads of in the South Seas. When the boat arrived at Bird Island—a small, tapering, brush-covered hill with beaches of gray, wave-worn rocks  Ser tn Fa GR CS Ne tee On Brirp ISLAND, GREAT SALT LAKE Photo Courtesy Union Pacific System or of gray and white sand—innumerable gulls filled the air and covered the rocks; long V-shaped lines of pelicans arose mejestically on steadily beating or motionless wings; great blue herons stood out like picturesque statues from the higher rocks, or slowly rose in graceful flight above our heads. The water was covered with the birds swimming from their rocky coverts; the air tesounded with their shrill cries; in places the sky was obscured by their number. Young pelicans in droves resembling sheep, floundered clumsily over the rocks, trying to reach the water; young herons, barely able to walk or fly, struggled limping from their large willow-built nest, and became entangled in the greasewood. We freed one of these, hopelessly ensnared where it might have perished. Many of the adult gulls, in their comical and needless terror, stood on the rocks with heads thrown back and bills open, uttering long and continuous shrieks, while brownish young of all sizes scrambled over the rocks, injuring themselves in their rush for safety. The Lack of Fresh Water Buffalo Island, the last stand of the almost extinct bison of North America, has sweet water. Some of the islands, really mountain peaks that rise above the sullen sea, are without fresh water, therefore uninhabitable. The scenes in the 'Covered Wagon" in which the buffalo figured, were filmed here. There is an abundance of grass. When the bulls of the herd become too numerous, a buffalo hunt is staged and the butcher shops in the inter-mountain country sell ''buffalo steaks" at this time. Invita- GREAT SALT LAKE AND ITS ISLANDS 413 tions were issued to sportsmen to the "last buffalo hunt" in November, 1926. Among the many stories connected with this island is that of a shipwrecked mariner. As he landed on the desolate side he did not know that it was inhabited. He made a signal of distress of his white shirt, then staggered around until he fell exhausted. Fortunately for him, some herders hunting a depredating coyote came across him lying unconscious among the brush, and rescued him. Fremont Island, named for the intrepid explorer, has a little tragedy of its own. A flock of sheep were left there to forage for themselves. The surface of the lake rose and covered the fresh water springs from which they drank. The poor sheep had pawed all the surrounding earth in a vain search for the lifesustaining fluid. They were all found dead. The Explorations by Fremont John C. Fremont visited the, Great Salt Lake on two of his five expeditions to the Far West. In the fall of 1843, Fremont stood on a peninsula in a terrific storm and looked west at the inland sea. He likened himself to Balboa discovering the Pacific Ocean.: His party, short of provisions, were encamped on the Weber river. (Most of these early voyagers seemed to suffer for want of food and water.) Fremont dispatched seven men to Fort Hall for supplies. Leaving three men in camp, their leader, with four others, including the notorious Kit Carson, dropped down to the mouth of the river in a rubber boat. "Next morning they were out on the lake, fearful every moment lest their air-blown boat should collapse and let them into the saline but beautiful, transparent liquid. At noon they reached one of the low, nearby islands and landed. They found there, washed up by the waves, a dark brown bank, ten or twenty feet in breadth, composed of the skins of worms, about the size of oats, while the rocky cliffs were whitened by incrustations of salt. Ascending to the highest point attainable, they took a surrounding view, and called the place Disappointment Island, because they had failed to find the fertile lands and game hoped for. Then they descended to the edge of the water, constructed lodges out of drift-wood, built fires, and spent the night there, returning next day in a rough sea to their mainland camp." Two years later, in 1845, Fremont again visited this region, camped where Salt Lake City now is, and explored the southern portion of the lake. Stansbury, Gunnison, Lambourne Stansbury Island is named for a railroad surveyor. Captain  Tue Last STAND OF THE BUFFALO Howard Stansbury of the topographical engineers came west in the spring of 1849 to explore the country in order to map out a trans-continental route for a railroad. Beginning with the Great Salt Lake and its islands, he gradually covered the surrounding territory. In a year and a half his observations had extended over an area of five thousand square miles. On leaving he disposed of his wagons and spare implements to local settlers, who in turn provided him with an escort, as a protection against the Indians, on his return to Fort Leavenworth. He fared better than young Gunnison, the astronomer of the expedition, for whom one of the smaller islands is named. His life was one of the sacrifices to the winning of the West. He fell a victim to Indians, who, angered by the abuse of travelers who had passed through, took it out on the next white men they met. Gunnison, in 1853, conducted a survey for a more southern railroad route. He camped on the Sevier, where wood and pasture were abundant. From there he could see the camp of a band of Pah Utes. The savages surprised the Gunnison party when they were at breakfast. The Indians, who had crept up on them, discharged a volley of shots and arrows. Gunnison ran out, calling that he was their friend. He fell, pierced by fifteen arrows. The Utes then fell on the rest of the party. Rescuers found their bodies mutilated, 'but not scalped. The inter-mountain poet, Alfred Lambourne, who died a few years ago, homesteaded on Gunnison Island for two years. He has interpreted the storms of the lake, and described its color vagaries in lyric prose. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE  Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah VoL