What Bird is That? How to Identify at Sight the Birds to be Seen This Month near the Mouth of any Western Canyon. By J. H. Paul, University of Utah "What bird is that?' Of the questions asked by members of hiking or camping parties in the West, this seems the most frequent, especially by strangers. For in the East, most people know the birds. The East is well wooded, and the birds, secure in hiding places among the foliage, are not compelled, as Western species are, to keep at safe distances. Our lack of vegetation, the rarefied air that renders the birds more clearly visible at long range, the greater watchfulness that the perils of open or desert-like regions require because of the more intense struggle for life here, added to the fact that Western birds, not yet well acquainted with man, have learned both to fear and avoid him?all these conditions cause our birds to be more watchful and retiring than Eastern species. Hence, to study our birds, a field glass is necessary and the aid of a nature guide desirable. Bird study pays well in new knowledge and rare enjoyment, as well as in the prestige among her children and other young people that bird knowledge gives to mothers. Gul Leaders at Lakota A few weeks ago a large party?leaders of Mutual girls in Bear Lake stake?met at Lakota, the Mutual home, for a nature hike. To the shore of the lake near Garden City they came from all over the county, one group after another, till some forty people had arrived?young ladies, many mothers, and a few grandmothers. The leader was Mrs. Welker. Her husband, Elder Roy A. Welker, president of the stake, Elder E. M. Pugmire, and other men were present, not merely as aids and advisers, but as enthusiastic investigators of nature. By their watchfulness, attention, business-like attitude, and sensible questions on the topic in hand, this fine group first aroused, then constantly deepened, the appreciation of the nature guide.: Siskin, Goldfinch, Bluebird The weather was just right?cool, with a little rain and a few flakes of snow, making coats necessary as the party started up the canyon that begins within a stone's throw from the  Mutual building; but a pine siskin, alighting on a wire near the home, began his long, twittering melody, detaining every one to get a look at the dainty little singer in russet brown. There this urchin of the air lingered under inspection, as six pairs of field glasses were handed round. Singing away, he kept on till his cousin the goldfinch, brilliant yellow with black evening suit besides, floated near, displaying his golden form to fine advantage. He did not sing, the backward season no doubt discouraging him, though in ordinary Junes he is singing brilliantly. A pair of bluebirds, gliding near, flitted from post to post. Posing with dignified grace, they gave us to understand that while they live among us they are not of us, but belong to a superior race. The male was deep blue, the female grayish blue. They did not sing, but swept about us in the flowing curves made only by the strongest, easiest fliers. After thus greeting our party with a few pleasant "churrs," they circled higher and left for their chosen haunts, the nearby hills. Swallows: the Four Kinds Far overhead swallows, floating like specks in the sky, presently came near. One was seen to have the long, twoforked tail; it was the barn swallow, the two plumes of the long tail being the readiest mark of identification. And there, scarcely a rod from our heads, in the gable of the house, was the nest, which, after endless aerial evolutions, they approached, faintly twittering. "Note the swallows with the white breasts," advised the Guide. "Those that show also a tuft of white on each side ot the tail are the Northern violet-green swallows, the handsomest of American species, being parrot-green and violet above." Observers soon made out the white tail-indicators, learning for the first time that they had long known the handsome creature, but had never before looked at it closely. The other swallows with white underparts, the Guide explained, "are tree swallows, which delight to fly just above the water surface. They are glossy blue above and lack the white patches always shown by the violet-greens at the base of the tail. "Those swallows with whitish breasts crossed by a dark, sooty band are sand martens, or bank swallows," the Guide explained; "and with them is another species just like them but without the conspicuous dark cloud on the breast. The latter are called rough-winged swallows. Both build their nests in holes, which they dig in the banks of streams or chasms." WHAT BIRD IS THAT? 427 "That swallow in reddish brown, like the barn swallow but without the long tail feathers of the latter, is the cliff or eave swallow?the species that builds nests of little halls of mud picked up in wet places and fastened to cliffs or under the eaves of houses." Before the advent of the English sparrow, every town in America had its colonies of eave swallows. The imported sparrow has driven them away?one of the reasons why the sparrow should be destroyed (but only by scientific methods, in winter). Purple martens, large, dark, bluish swallows, the Guide added, "are to be found in the mountains, but are uncommon." So great has been the diminution of their numbers in the last thirty years that few localities now have swallows; and in the few places that still have them, the entire group is butt rarely represented. Warbler, Song Sparrow, Vireo Then began the slow saunter up the wooded canyon, down which comes a large stream of clear, cold water. "Tsweet, tsweet, tsee." sang the yellow warbler from the trees?the only one of our birds that is yellow all over. The belted kingfisher sounded his rattle along the stream. He is crested, big-billed and bluish, brown and white. He kept out of sight, but was seen next morning by those who were "up betimes." Song sparrows sang delightfully their "Maids, maids, maids, hang on your teakettle?ettle?ettle," as Thoreau translates their tinkling melodies. Brown spots on the ashy breast readily identify them. Then the vireos?ever heard but never seen?how they made us long to get a glimpse of them! Like fairy elves they sing continuously from the tree tops, saying always, "A warbling vireo singing! A warbling vireo singing!"" "Well, we know you're a warbling vireo singing," exclaimed one of the party; "but where are you hiding, you dainty bit of music?" We sought him in vain, but we found him not. At last we all gave up and went on?all but one. The President's blood was up. Determined to find the vireo, he loitered till, to his unbounded satisfaction, he viewed the tiny bit of gre2n and gray perched and singing cheerily amid the leaves of the tall lance-leaf cottonwood. Next day, however, on the return from the Lake, the entire company found the vireo; for it sang repeatedly from the same tree till at last we located it, on its nest, singing as it brooded there. To sing on the nest is ja way of the vireo and of the black-headed grosbeak, whose song we heard from afar,  Dove, Bunting, Marsh Hawk Mourning doves went by in pairs, on whistling wings, or cooed from tree and hillside; the songs of robins were incessant and rather melodious; the little lazuli buntings sang througn the trees, the company trying to distinguish their notes from those of the yellow warblers; but it was next day before buntings were observed, beautiful in their sextet of colors? blue, huff, white, black, brown, gray. Marsh hawks soared above mountain and valley, and a Cooper or real chicken hawk swept past. Magpies did their bit with a few clattering cries, as did also, from a distance, a long-crested jay, which, however, was not observed. We have seven jays, none of them being the blue jay. Pee Wee, Tanager, Towhee, Chickadee Wood pewees, calling their name, "pee-wee," flitted about the high tree tops. Returning always to the same perch after picking up a flying insect in the air. Tanagers, gorgeous in lemon yellow, black, and crimson, were observed on the second hike. Arctic towhees sang to us, though we saw none of them; they kept to the ground among the bushes, scratching for an honest living, as is their wont. They are 9 inches long, and brown, black and white. Long-tailed chickadees were there, busily engaged in saving the trees. Clinging underneath the boughs and calling their names, also giving the long whistle, "Phae-dee-dee," little flocks, they flitted quickly in among the boughs. Blackbirds, Pelican, Sandpiper, Kulldeer Next morning, in the cool air and the glow of the sun rising through white clouds, we went out before breakfast' and walked along the shore, which was alive with bird life. Swaying and singing on bending stems were three species of blackbird?the redwing, the yellowhead, and the all-black Brewer, blue-glossed and white-eyed. All three species were frequent among the reeds and rushes or flying overhead, intently busy at finding insect food for their young. The fourth, the cowbird, smaller and with a brown head, we did not see. Here again swallows abounded; and out in the water a line of stately pelicans were seen fishing to fill their stomachs (not their pouches) with fish to be carried to Bird Island in the Great Salt Lake?the food preferred by their unfledged flocks. Spotted sandpipers flew about, alighting on rocks and sandbars, then teetering and bowing in comical fashion, as they called out "Peet-weet" and explored the shallows for their WHAT BIRD IS THAT? 429 insect food. Killdeers filled the air with their cries; and we all but stepped on a killdeer nest?a mere depression in the earth, lined with a few bits of grass and containing three large, blotched eggs, the narrow ends pointing inwards. Two days later, when the Boy Scout leaders also found this nest and three others right near it, each contained four eggs, the usual number in the clutch. The Larger Shorebiwrds Out in the lake, an occasional great blue heron could be seen standing in the shallow water near shore, or a bittern would wing slowly over the water surface. A few willets flew past one party, calling out, "Pill-will-willet;" and birds that may have been avocets and glossy ibis were seen in the distance. Snowy herons were observed far out on the water; and the writer learned of the marvelous colonies of water and shore birds breeding on Mud Island in the northern part of the lake. But had no time to visit them.