JULY, VOL 57, NUMBER 7
To All Relief Society Magazine Subscribers: a In compliance with the directive of the First Presidency, the Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue. In its place an adult magazine will be published by the Church. All the Relief Society lessons through May 1971 will be published in the Relief Society Magazine by the December 1970 issue. Any subscriber whose subscription expires in August, September, October, November, or December may subscribe to the remaining 1970 issues by giving to the Magazine representative 25 cents for each needed issue. Those whose subscriptions extend into 1971 will be notified later of the provisions to be made to recompense them. The General Board expresses its heartfelt thanks to Relief Society presidents and Magazine representatives particularly and to every subscriber for the loyalty shown over fifty-six years in magnificently sustaining this Magazine for the women of the Church. It has a present circulation of 298,250. The General Board bespeaks the sisters' enthusiastic support for the new adult magazine which will be published under the correlation program of the Church by the First Presidency and Quorum of the Twelve. The new magazine will contain material of particular interest to women. 
The Cover: Art Layout: Illustrations: WATERCRESS SPRING ' It is here: along the sluice of ditch And river touching cliff Where sun begins.... Here, springing on the blackest waters, Green unfolds across the silent cold There, after ice has thawed - And winter birds have fled the sky. The time of seasons turns And you and I, | In glad remembering of summers past And ali the bitter-fresh of taste, Return to gather memories And sheaves of watercress. And in the mirroring water When | watch the sky's reflection In your hair. The sundown crimson sunset Colors all the dusky trees. | see the winters of the future In the cliffs, and seize The moment of my spring And count it grace. There is but little time to love And gather home This earth Before we lose our summer place. Marilyn McMeen Miller Radiant Garden in Oregon Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Dick Scopes Mary Scopes I feel gratitude in my heart to all those who have made possible the publication of
The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish. It was a special delight to read the beautiful
message by Elder Mark E. Petersen, "The Blessings and Power of the Priesthood" in
the January Magazine. I was touched to the depths of my heart, my testimony was
strengthened, and my desire to be married in the temple and enjoy these blessings
fully in my own home became greater. I try to put in practice all that I learn from
The Relief Society Magazine. Cecilia Miranda, Buenos Aires, Argentina
I had lived in Salt Lake City, Utah, all my life until we moved here to Alaska nearly
two years ago. The association with the good sisters here has been a choice experience
for me. I find that Relief Society women have the same sweet spirit the world over. I
appreciate and depend on The Relief Society Magazine even more in my activities here,
and it is good to have a companionship with all the dear sisters world-wide.
Mary a D. Beck, Anchorage, Alaska
The poetry in The Relief Society Magazine has always brought me great enjoyment as
its quality and artistry are consistently far above that of most publications.
Jean H. Mathews, Florissant, Missouri
Our entire family enjoys the Magazine. We are away from all our previous homes
"settling in" a new home here in England. I have particularly appreciated the sourdough
and homemade mix recipes. Some of the missionaries here who cook for
themselves are going to give them a try. We all look forward to the next installment
of "Jerusha Spends the Night" [current serial]. Even Dad comes home from his
office to hear the developments. Jerusha reminds us of a dear friend in Moab. The
children, particularly, appreciated the drawings of the characters [by Mary Scopes].
We enjoy the Magazine wherever we are. Mary Etta W. Parkinson, Leeds, England
I felt I just had to write and thank you for giving us that beautiful story "A New
Season for Christy" [Third Prize Story, April 1970, by Joan B. Kearl]. I even had to
shed a tear or two, I was so moved. Sister Joan must be a wonderful woman to have
written such a stirring story, exemplifying so much of beauty and goodness.
Elda L Haycock, Blackfoot, Idaho
I was especially pleased to see Virginia Maughan Kammeyer as the recipient of the
First Prize in the Annual Relief Society Poem Contest ["Afterglow," April 1970]. The
poem is truly inspired. As a convert to the Church, I count Sister Kammeyer as one
of a few special friends who have taught me the meaning of charity. She is not only a
talented woman, but also a choice human being. We should all be grateful for the
many good and gifted women in the Church. Marylou A. Shaver, Rexburg, Idaho
To me, The Relief Society Magazine is like clear water in a dark desert. There are
already enough magazines that "tell it like it is." I am grateful for a Magazine that
"tells it like it should be." I testify that the spirit of Relief Society rides with its
Magazine to all corners of the world and blesses all it reaches.
Sherry Downing, Sewell, New Jersey
I thank my mother for sending me the Magazine as a gift for the last four years.
Sometimes she would ask if I had read a certain story or poem, and if I said "Yes,"
then she would remark "That's good." And if I said "No," she would advise me to do
so— "Read it. It will do you good." And I do and they do. All the stories and articles
in the Magazine are aimed especially for me. Ann D. Egelund, Salt Lake City, Utah
482
Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford
Business Manager Belle S. Spafford
Special Features
Opposite page 481 Tq All Relief Society Magazine Subscribers
485 Birthday Congratulations to President Joseph Fielding Smith
486 Women's Work in Building the Kingdom Elder Franklin D. Richards
493 President Spafford Honored in New York
494 Annual Relief Society Song Writing Contest— Announcement of Winners
Fiction
496 The Secret of Blueberry Hill-Chapter 1 Rosa Lee Lloyd
504 Ronna's Doll Norma A. Wrathall
516 Mama Was a Heroine! Maryhale Woolsey
525 Jerusha Spends the Night— Chapter 7 (Conclusion) Hazel K. Todd
General Features
482 From Near and Far
501 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon
502 Editorial— Two Who Care Marianne C. Sharp
531 Notes from the Field— Relief Society Activities
560 Birthday Congratulations
The Home— Inside and Out
511 My Memory Garden Elaine J. Wilson
512 Meatless Casseroles— Part I Edythe K. Watson
514 Picking Potawatomies Mabel Luke Anderson
522 The Catch-AII Drawer Louise Wynn
523 A Day at a Time Mary Clough
524 Hobby Features— Catherine K. Hiatt and Lucinda H. Cardon
Lesson Department
539 Spiritual Living— The Origin of the Pearl of Great Price
545 Visiting Teacher Message— Truth and Free Agency
547 Homemaking— You Owe It to Yourself to Become a Lovelier You
549 Social Relations— Morality and the Individual
554 Cultural Refinement— A Family Reads and Sings Together
Poetry
481 Watercress Spring, Marilyn McMeen Miller; 490 We Crossed the River, Sadie 0. Clark; 491
Third Nephi, Margaret B. Jorgensen; 500 Cinquain, Ethel H. Harp; 509 Smile Power, Pearle M.
Olsen; 510 A Woman's Touch, Thelma A. Thacker; 515 You Never Knew I Kept All These, Alda
Larson Brown; 522 Wondering, Louise S. Davis; 523 San Francisco, Grayce E. Cutler; 530 Departed
from Desert, Dorothy J. Roberts.
Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ©1970
by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111;
Phone 364-2511; Subscription price 250 a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No
back numbers can be supplied. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter
February 18, 1914, at the Post Office Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate
of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned
unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible
for unsolicited manuscripts.
Birthday Congratulations to President Joseph Fielding SMith July 1, 1970 On his ninety -fourth birthday, the sisterhood of the Church extend
congratulations to President Joseph Fielding Smith. His words
of counsel and of praise have uplifted the hearts of many as he has
expressed his love for Relief Society and his high regard for the
women of the Church from his position as an advisor to Relief
Society for many years. We feel to express gratitude for the
prophet who dwells among us and who has our welfare always at
heart. Much guidance can be obtained from reading and rereading
his words of inspiration delivered at so many Relief Society Annual
Conferences.
In reference to compassionate service he has said: "The good that
has been accomplished in the care of the poor, care of the sick and
the afflicted, and those who are in physical, mental, or spiritual
need, will never be correctly known. This, however, need not be our
concern. The main interest lies in the fact that all of this has been
accomplished through the spirit of love in accordance with the true
spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is clear to see that without this
wonderful organization, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints never could have been completely organized." ("Purpose of
Relief Society," The Relief Society Magazine, January 1964, p. 4.)
On another occasion, President Smith encouraged the sisters
to speak out, saying: "It isn't necessary today for our sisters to be
silent. They can be called upon to teach the gospel of Jesus Christ,
to bear their testimonies and bear witness of the truth in our sacrament
meetings or other meetings of the Church. . . . The Lord
through his wisdom has called upon our sisters to be aids to the
Priesthood. . . . We could not get along without this organization."
("Relief Society — An Aid to the Priesthood," The Relief Society
Magazine, January 1959, p. 4.)
President Smith has often quoted from the Prophet Joseph in
extolling the virtues and outlining the duties of Relief Society. He
has reminded the sisters that they are to behave kindly and charitably
toward their husbands, that they are to remain pure and innocent
in the eyes of God, and live up to the expectations the brethren
have placed on this Society since the time of its divinely inspired organization
in Nauvoo.
We would do well to follow his advice and counsel, to remember
that his words are spoken from a heart filled with love and respect
for womanhood, and always to be thankful that there is an inspired
prophet on the earth today.
May the faith and prayers of Relief Society sisters throughout
the world be manifest in birthday wishes to President Smith, and
may our Heavenly Father continue to bless him with the health and
strength to preside over the affairs of his kingdom.

Franklin D. Richards Women's Work in Building The Kingdom In asking me to prepare this article, Sister Marianne C. Sharp, Editor of The agazine, wrote, " Relief Society sisters have expressed a need for counsel and direction regarding women's work in building the Kingdom. In the midst of the complexities and problems of our Present earthly environment, some words of helpfulness from you would be greatly appreciated." Recently, erence assignments, | was disquote from her; informative letter: In a recent Relief Society meeting we were discussing the lesson, "Work A Road to Personal Fulfillment," and the subject began to elicit Some personal, 486 Womens Work The Kingdom We can be grateful that throughout the ages God has counseled his People and helped them to solve their problems, and his counsel is as applicable to successful homemaking as to other aspects of life. It is interesting to note that as God has admonished his people through his Prophets two words have frequently appeared order and diligence. And order; for it is not requisite that than he has Strength.... It is In Building Elder Franklin D. Richards Assistant to the Council of the Twelve expedient that he should be diligent, that thereby he might win the prize; therefore, all things must be done in order." (Mosiah 4:27. Italics added.) In connection with the matter we are discussing, the immediate prize ls successful homemaking. In this dispensation through the Prophet Joseph Smith the Lord has told us that his house "ig a house of order.. - and not a house of confusion." (D&C 132: 8. Italics added.) Today things to do, s0 many crowding us. In this environment are key words to success an happiness regardless of the activity we are engaged in. In meeting leaders, I frequently ask them what their greatest needs are. Almost invariably they reply that among their greatest needs is better organization of their time and work, Or, in effect, more order and diligence. And it is not infrequent the question, traits of him say, "Don't be too busy to meditate and when the answer comes have the courage to exeprayer, and To be most effective, meditation requires that time be regularly set aside to consider the things that seem to be required of you. Many times you find you have more to do than you can do in the time available. To develop an orderly pattern, consider the things facing you, analyze their importance and list them in the order of their importance. Give the things of prime importance first priority and develop a plan to accomplish them. Planning involves the development of effective ways which will save time and simplify the operation involved. Prayer ls always advisable in planning the effective use of time. My friend who wrote me Tregarding successful homemaking continued in her letter: Your success formula of "plan, Simplify, and Be Strong" is very applicable. Plan: This does not entail long hours of paper work. It can be anything from a small notebook written in at night before bedtime to 4 mimeographed sheet with spaces to be filled in by each given hour. But it must 1, and it must have a place for short-term and e  time average mother has. Kitchen counter tops are Often the Worst "catch-alls " Remove everything but those Items that are in Be Str &: After ave mad your plan, nd Simplified your home SUlroundin   don't let Portant Situations r inte Ptions Prevent you rom following your plan, | isn't being Yude to Plain   a friend t you can't talk n the Phone no but wil] Call er back Owever, it is to keep a Plan flexip]  nough that hould your usband example, cal] With an Unexpected tation to lunch or an afternoon at the beach or lsewhere you can accept 8Taciously and enjoy the time With him. A plan is not meant for work Schedules Only, Pla into day time for Other dressmaking, Cooking, and sports Plan Some Physica] Activity, if only calisthenics Ing the kingdom of God. Hen Called Upon to accept an assignment In the Church, Which jg an important Part of By se  cting first things to do and Working oyt 4 plan to accom. Plish them, we develop orderly habits Which Make jt Possible Properly to Care for oy, families and have time to Serve in build. Ing the kingdom of God. 107:99 ) He has Counseled ys to seek out of the best books words of wisdom and to seek learning even by study and faith. (D&C 88:118.) Study should be rated among those things of first importance. In organizing our time and work, time should be regularly allotted for personal study. In accepting opportunities to serve in the Church not only do we contribute to the welfare of others, but we set a proper example for our children which will be a powerful influence for good in their lives. By selecting first things to do and in working out a plan to do them first, we have taken an important step toward accomplishing them. This is where diligence plays a big part. To be diligent in our work means to be effective and not just busy. ' When the Lord counseled us to perform our assignments in all diligence, he meant whether it was convenient for us or not. To perform our assignments diligently, sacrifice of our time, talents, and means is frequently required but we know that sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven. We are thus entitled to the blessings which are predicated upon obedience to this principle of sacrifice. Being diligent also requires faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and in ourselves, and making up our minds to be orderly and diligent is a good part of developing faith in ourselves. Even though our assignments seem difficult, as we develop our faith and persevere we are able to achieve our righteous objectives. Women's Work in Building the Kingdom President Heber J. Grant used to say frequently, "That which we persist in doing becomes easy to do, not that the nature of the thing has changed but that our power to do has increased." To be diligent one must learn to persevere yes, to endure to the end. To the end of what? Can we endure to the end of a day with the same dedication and enthusiasm we had at the beginning of the day, even though faced with frustrations and problems. Each year has 365 days a day twenty-four hours  each requiring enduring to the end. However, remember what King Benjamin said, "it is not requisite that a man should run faster than he has strength." He undoubtedly meant mental, physical, financial, orspiritual strength, or all combined. In all phases of my personal experience, I have found it wise to "survey large fields but to cultivate small ones." This involves the setting of goals longterm and short-term goals. In surveying large fields, one in effect makes a master plan which he later develops in orderly stages. This is a sound way to proceed and avoid many disappointments which can _ result from over-extending oneself. "Surveying large fields and cultivating small ones" involves the principles of order and diligence and results in growth and development. These are basic principles of eternal progression. Again quoting from my Relief Society friend's letter: I have a daily and weekly schedule with goals my goals for the next four weeks are: 489 July 1970 wr    First Week Plan extra time to prepare Relief Society lesson well. Read again from the story of the Prophet Joseph by his mother. Prepare for the nonmember fireside. Thank-you letters. Second Week Plan to reread The Book of Mormon. Read twenty pages this week. Prepare to teach the Red Cross class. Bake bread take some to Sister Hill and Mrs. Bright. Third Week Read to page 45 in Book of Mormon. Send love package to Bill at BYU. Follow-up on families who attended nonmember fireside. Fourth Week Make side drapes for master bedroom. Buttons buttonholes on Mary's dress. Read to page 65 in Book of Mormon. My Relief Society friend's suggeStions are certainly in harmony with the eternal principles of order and diligence. As has been indicated, these traits can be developed and are key words to success and happiness regardless of the activity in which we are engaged. May we apply these eternal principles in our lives and make our homes truly a bit of heaven on earth and a stepping-stone to eternal life which is the most worthwhile prize of all. On 490 + WE CROSSED THE RIVER (Crossing the Mississippi February 1970, in remembrance of the 1846 pioneer crossing from Nauvoo to Iowa.) A triangle of winter birds fly low, From the river's edge we watch their flight. The river is frozen and covered with snow, The Father of Waters flows deep below, And we cross on the ice with cheeks aglow. The cold, gray clouds keep the sun from our sight, As the bevy of winter birds flies low, From the river's edge we watch their flight. The river is frozen and covered with snow, And a rollicking crowd ventures out on the ice. They race to the channel, as stiff breezes blow, Their gay sweaters sparkle in contrast to snow, The Father of Waters flows deep below; The sun peeps out and is gone in a trice. The river is frozen and covered with snow, But we walk for a mile on the blue-white ice. We crossed the river on ice and snow. From bank to bank we walked with delight. The small children keeping their sleds in tow, The Father of Waters flows deep below. On the lowa side our steps grew slow, As we started the trek to the Illinois site. A triangle of winter birds flew low, On the Mississippi we watched their flight.  Sadie O. Clark PHOTOGRAPH BY PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. | THIRD NEPHI (17: 11-22) "And it came to pass that he commanded that their little children should be brought." (3 Nephi 17:11.) Bring them unto me, he said And they their little children brought, Humbly sending them ahead With blessing and thanksgiving fraught, To him, who then commanded   That the parents kneel; And so they did and then he knelt, Having prayed unto the Father, Radiant in the joy he felt. So glorious were his words That those unglorified Can never comprehend Nor indeed abide Celestial utterance. "Behold, my joy is full,'' he said, His promised blessing drawing nigh, So unto them his word he kept, And then he wept  And so did |.  Margaret B. Jorgensen re TT ST aise, Ad Sse istaledes - ie f aming Candles following the can tate Mothers Distr; l Were honored bia and Puerto Rico m thers who and from om th erican Mother for 1979 Was Chosen. Mrs Mie Doud Eisenhower. The Onorary President Was in attendance Was honoreq h hirty-five ther women Chosen In TeCognition heir not ble a  ndeavor Y-five fields of chi Vvements Were: Comm Nnder Grace Opper, Science: Dr. Do h regg, Advertisin Sylvia Porter, Finance: Virginia H. Knauer, n-Ann Dunha | terior  coration: Mary p A ffairs. Betty S Martin, Insuran test Tecognition. Fe) UNcheon aS a musica] Presentation under the rection of Sister Ellen N. Arnes of the 8eneral board, by | Jersey, and   Mir, Roy Fugal,   air S. Spafforg, Second top row On the "ght, Mrs. G Mittee. 493 Contest Announcement of Winners = The General Board of Relief Society is pleased to announce the names of the winners in the second annual Relief Society Song Contest. The first prize of $100 (sixty dollars for the music and forty dollars for the lyrics) is awarded to Audrey Dotson Beck and Helen Campbell Monson, both of the Denver South Stake Relief Society, for their lovely hymn entitled "The Song of the Righteous." Sister Beck of Littleton, Colorado, wrote the music, and the lyrics were penned by Sister Monson, of Denver, Colorado. The second prize of seventyfive dollars is awarded to Ruth B. Lehenbauer, of Dearborn, Michigan, for her hymn "I Seek Thy Peace." Sister Lehenbauer 494 Audrey Dotson Beck was awarded second prize in last year's contest for "My Cup of Joy." The prize-winning songs are programmed for performance by Singing Mothers choruses by the General Board of Relief Society. The General Board is pleased with the response to the contest, although there were fewer entries than last year. Ninety-three songs were submitted, including four from outside the United States. The committee of eminently qualified judges were impressed with the caliber of the songs. The winners are to be congratulated for their very fine abilities, and appreciation is extended to all others who entered the contest. ds Helen Campbell Monson Ruth Benson Lehenbauer youth in Cedar City, Utah, where she attended the public schools and later the College of Southern Utah. Ruth Benson Lehenbauer was born in Washington D. C., a daughter of Serge and Elizabeth Benson. Her youth was Spent in Maryland where she studied Piano for ten years. She attended Utah State University and was graduated from Brigham Young 495 And then, nearing her sixtyfirst birthday, Aunt Lucinda had left them. She had told Lila only yesterday that she was one of the most contented and grateful women in the whole world. She had known romance even though her sweetheart had not returned from the war; she had reared four children who loved her; and, until six months ago when she had had to retire because her knee hurt so much, she had been the finest principal in the district. Even though the townspeople thought she was severe and unyielding in educational and civic affairs, they respected and admired her. Aunt Lucinda had the McIntyre beauty. She was tall with dark hair and eyes to match and, Lila remembered tenderly, she also had a dignified mysterious charm about her. Hadn't she kept the secret of Blueberry Hill all these years? Lila felt a twinge of conscience at her eagerness to know what that secret was. L. Ila opened the door and stood very still as she looked at Johnny. He was the happy-go-lucky, debonair one of the family. He isn't smiling now, she thought. He looks like a little boy ready to cry for his mother. Lila drew in her breath for courage, but the sweet curve of her young mouth trembled. "Lila Bob!" he said, and the old familiar nickname for Lila Barbara was a heartthrob from her childhood. "I didn't know she was sick. I still can't believe it. Why didn't you tell us? We would have been here!" Lila leaned against the door frame. She was so tired of answerThe Secret of Blueberry Hill ing this same question that had come over the telephone that morning from Elizabeth and Steven, and now Johnny. "Why didn't you tell us, Lila Bob, so we could have seen her again?" Tears of regret misted Johnny's blue eyes, those mischievous laughing blue eyes that had been the beacon light in Aunt Lucinda's life. Just a note from Johnny or Elizabeth or Steven could make her whole day a_ shimmering rainbow. "We'll make everything nice foreach other," Aunt Lucinda had always told them. "We'll work together to send Johnny to art school because he has such talent as a cartoonist. That boy! He can draw anything!" And they all had, Lila remembered now as she looked at Johnny who was a cartoonist for a national syndicate. Everything about Johnny McIntyre spelled success. His carefully tailored gray suit, his blue striped tie, his reddish blond hair, a shade darker than her own, with a natural cowlick that brushed over his forehead Everything but the sideburns was familiar. Aunt Lucinda wouldn't like those sideburns, Lila thought. But she would melt with love for him as Lila was doing now. "Oh, Johnny Johnny," she murmured. Then she was weeping against his shoulder and Johnny was soothing her. "IT know, Lila Bob. You will miss her more than any of us because you lived here with her. I know how you feel." Lila did not answer, but to herself she asked: Do you Johnny? Do you know what it's like to find someone you love gone for- 497 July 1970 ever? To be all alone in a big old house with two floors and a tornado cellar? Lila heard the _ telephone ringing. She went to answer it. "That was Elizabeth. She and Steven are at the airport. Will you go for them, Johnny?" "Come with me," he coaxed. "The house can take care of itself. If anyone comes they can wait for us." "But Johnny! That's not the way Aunt Lucinda would. Want us to do. She was so hospitable." "T know," he admitted. "Funny thing! There was always something good in that old freezer in the cellar. She seemed to know when folks were coming or when a tornado would blow through Skylark. Even though it didn't ever hit our house, we had plenty to help others who were in its path." "The neighbors will come," Lila added. ''We should be home." "Leave the door open,' he argued. "Who will steal anything? This is Skylark not Chicago." Lila looked at him as she dried her eyes. ""We've had thieves in Skylark," she told him. "Things have changed here, too. Only last week Aunt Lucinda said we better lock our doors at night." "No!" Johnny pulled a face. "Don't tell me people in Skylark have to lock their doors. I didn't know we even had a key to this old house." "Two keys," Lila replied. "Aunt Lucinda had them made last week after we saw those strangers coming down from Blueberry Hill. But [ll go with you it won't take long." "Blueberry Hill," he repeated 498 after they were seated in the car and headed down the highway. "How I've wondered about Blueberry Hill! Why wouldn't Aunt Lucinda let any of us go up there, Lila Bob? Do you think there was something dangerous, like quicksand?" "Qh, no, silly. Quicksand comes in swampy country." "Not always," he said. "I saw a cowboy in a western picture who. Got in quicksand." Lila shook her head. "T don't know. All of us were on our solemn honor never to go to the Hill. Even when she went to NEA conventions and I was here alone I never went to the Hill. I just couldn't break my promise to her. The secret she had kept was very sacred to her, Johnny. It was more than just a place. It was sort of a well  like a pledge she had made to herself to keep us from some danger. Something she was determined to live up to." "TI know," he agreed. "I felt the same way. So did Steve and Elizabeth. We kept our promise to her. Remember the time I was down below in the hollow and I saw those strange men going up there? I ran to tell her and she sent me on an errand to the store. I stopped my bike on the highway and looked back. She was climbing up that hill with a determined stride. She had Grandfather's cane in her hand. I know her knee hurt her even then, but I don't think that was why she took the cane. I rode off to the store and when I came back she was in the kitchen making my favorite chocolate-puff cookies. She put a quart of milk in front of me on the table and told me  r a bad time wh nN he wanted; en I went upstate Blueberry Hill and she to College, | had to Work half the Wouldn't sel] it." ay my tuition. = h, I do for the 1 | Ibly to through, We all Wondered Why She Wwouldn't Sell the Hill, espeSed some of Clally When it Was dangerous, But - "I would She said p - We Would h a Playboy if I'g had Work a little har. Ey, Lila Bob. | li: Only a Spot On the Map but it ca Of this 3; n be Proud pert. Tt is Modern jin every Way, even the Canopied entrance from the Bate to the |   he saiq Our old [ | 499 July 1970 "Aren't you forgetting the North River Country Club? Aunt Lucinda told me that Scott Harrington takes you there once in awhile." Lila bit her lip. Aunt Lucinda had thought she was foolish to accept Scott's invitations because he needed a partner for the Club parties. All the business people in town belonged to the Club and Scott Harrington was now president of the bank since his father's death a year ago. He hardly noticed the girls at the bank and only thought of her as little Lila McIntyre in the small loan department. She knew he didn't think of her as an attractive, grownup woman. She was part of the things he took for granted; the warm Skylark sun or the path he took through City Park on his way to the bank each morning after he left his apartment on Center Street where he lived in quiet contentment with his books and good music. Aunt Lucinda must have known that Lila had admired Scott Harrington ever since he had gone to grade school with Steven and Elizabeth. She would laughingly scold Lila for always accepting his invitation when the occasion pleased him. She would say: "He needs a girl who will demand some sacrifice from him; not a sweet little angel like you who needs a man _ who can appreciate her Dresden-like beauty and take care of it." Lila was never quite sure if Aunt Lucinda really disapproved but she went on accepting Scott's invitations, hoping he would really notice that she was grownup now and wore her clothes as well as any woman at the Club, and her her reddish blond hair styled at Paula's. "You need a change," Johnny said suddenly. "Come back to Kansas City with me. There is nothing to keep you here now." Lila lifted her head, looking at her brother. What would happen if she went to Kansas City with Johnny? Would Scott Harrington wake up? Would he miss her when he needed a partner at the Club? Would he even notice that she had left town? "All right, Johnny," she said over the lump in her throat, "Tl go back to Kansas City with you. Somehow I think Aunt Lucinda would want me to go for a change." "T'll show you the _ town!" Johnny promised. "I'll make up for all those little dimes you sent to me when I was in art school." Lila blinked her eyes to hide the tears. She was _ homesick already; and she hadn't even packed her suitcase. So much had to be done. There was Aunt Lucinda's funeral to be planned, the house to be sold, and there was Blueberry Hill. What would Aunt Lucinda want them to do with Blueberry Hill? (to be continued) CINQUAIN The border North of the doorway Makes a flower bed for Grandma. She loves the plot as much as former Spacious gardens. 500  Ethel H. Harp 4 Special Citation as a homemaker from military Post to the White House. Mrs. Richard Dexter (Alta Estella Cutler) Participants; Clara Tilton Neu was accompanist: Melva Barborka, Soprano Soloist; and Kathleen; Spafford, Relief Society, President of the National livered an address at the afternoon meetMrs. Spafford Was given 501 EDITORIAL / Two Who Care ''Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." '  |, Love one another; as | have loved you."' '".. Pray for them which despitefully use you." ''... Go to the house of mourning." ''Judge not, that ye be not judged."' These and many other admonitory words of Holy Writ pertain to the calling of a visiting teacher. The attributes of loving, cherishing, and comforting permeate the visiting teacher's work. It is the very essence of charity the motto of Relief Society. It is a privilege to be found worthy to be a visiting teacher and a blessed calling which requires personal preparation in the realms of Spirituality, physical effort, intellectual activity, and charitableness. An opportunity is extended to two visiting teachers to enter about eight designated homes each month as emissaries of the Lord to the sisters in the home. Before beginning the calls it is well to go over in one's mind the conditions in each home which one may expect to find and resolve and plan with the companion visiting teacher the development of the message in a particular home, where this is felt to be desirable, and how one may make the sister in the home feel that she is cherished  that two visiting teachers do care. In one home may be found loneliness, in another heartache, or there may be sickness. A young mother may be overburdened, or sorrow may have entered a home. Moreover the needs may shift as the months go by. A fervent prayer by visiting teachers humbly offered in behalf of the great visiting teaching work to be accomplished 


Volume 57 July 1970 Number 7 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 502 Lord in in Piration to the Visiting teachers and in a h lowing the r latio Ship t the siste Sin Oomes,. The More r Ceptive visiting teachers are N mak their ViSits, the More they wil be pr Pared to 80 the Second mj 4nd the More blesseq Will their   lings Preliminar to the ISit in th home has bee e attendance t he ViSitin acher m ting Which has fortifieg th Visitin teachers hrough the 'NStruction hich hay been received from th Ir Preside t and th discuss ON which aS been held on th Visiting teg her mes Sage itself Thi eting,   has f, rtifie   Visiting te Chers j; Clr messa eo SPirituality and MPassj * aNd in th Way to add Meaningtu| Ctions to Ords ther need one ho to telephone Or call before the Next VISIt to see What Sister Allen js hearing from her SON in the army? 0 s Sister OSE need + be driy to th doctor? Sister Carr Overburdeneq ith her Ck ther ang young Children? H Visitin  achers will Onfidentj Ily report suc Situations an   queries Of the elief OClety p ident I 4Ssume the furth rection UNder the INSpiration her Calli Visiting tea hers a Not left alone to Carry out their Callings. They Care for the s Sters h Ome and the President Oversees qi and cares for the Visiting teachers he Lord has prov; a Sisterly Ww h goe t Should be uplifted and who Specially Care for atchcare Over h TS daughters a OCiety Sister that the e. 'Y Relief s SuStained IN the knowledge her and She j re are two alon Marian R Boyer. Ith rlene J. Poulsen: Lucile Pp. Peterson Marjorie M. Reeve, anwaring Lila B Walch Elaine B. Curtis Ada J Ones un Lenore C. Gundersen elma R. West Helen g Lach - Kienitz Marjorie C. Pingree Leanor j Brown e - Winters arlene C Dedeking Reba O. Al Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Buehne, llen N Love 503 Norma A. Aia ol gs Long afterward when I remembered Ronna's doll, it was as if I stood again beside my little sister gazing up at it, beautiful, new, beyond reach. My sister must have been four or five that summer, I two years older, and our playmate, Ronna, just between. Ronna was a chunky little girl full of giggles. We had a jolly time together, except when she was determined to dress and undress our darlings. Of course we wanted to share our dolls, we told each other. But how could we stand by and watch them suffer at her unskilled hands? "Ronna, don't be so rough with Crin and Toodles!" I told her one day. "Mama said they might come unjointed if you pull their arms way out like that!" 504 The corners of Ronna's mouth set firmly into her cheeks. "Not either rough!" she retorted. She pulled Toodles' arm from the shoulder socket until the elastic showed, then let it snap back into the pink sleeve. "You are, too!" I cried. "Let me take her." Ronna pulled away, clutching my doll. "Ill put her in the buggy," she said, but her brown eyes still snapped with indignation. My sister had grabbed Crin and scuttled to the safety of the back porch. Crin and Toodles were fairly large dolls. They were well made, the shoulder and hip joints fitted firmly into sockets and were threaded with strong elastic, which was then tied in the middle of the bodies. The wigs were of real hair sewed to a cloth foundation and then glued to the heads. Long lashes enhanced the opening-and-closing eyes. When Santa Y foodles, a brunette Was Tessedein pink Both had dainty ace-trimmed Underwear  conomies Went into their Purchase Price, hen Ronna Came to play, She always told Mama how long she could Stay. Then Play with Crin announced one Ronna's Dolt "Don't make her cry," I said "Mama doesn't like quarreling. And you know you don't have to 80 home yet." "Well, then, let me play with Toodles," 1 won't undress her. But What will I play with?" Smooth head. When I went back to the yard Unfastening the back. "Ronna! Stop! Her head off!"' buggy, and half  xpecting to See Toodles' loosened Pillow. July 1970 sister offered. She rummaged in the buggy and handed me the large handkerchief. "Won't you let me play any more?" asked Ronna, her mouth drooping. "You can help wheel the buggy," I said. We started along the path, wheeling the dolls to sleep. After a few moments I said, "Ronna, why don't you bring your doll sometimes? You don't have to play with ours all the time." Ronna shook her head until her short dark hair flew about her face. "No! I don't want to!" she sald. My sister had reached the front gate and turned back. "Here comes Mama with the play dinner!" she cnied. Mama hurried across the yard, carrying a wide shallow pan. She whisked a white dish towel over the upturned wooden box and set the pan on it. "Well, now, I guess you girls can set your dishes around," she said. Then she went back to the house with her quick, light step, toward whatever task she had left unfinished. We lifted out a plate heaped with jelly sandwiches, whole slices cut into fourths, the syrup pitcher filled with cold milk, and the play dishes. "This is my favorite jelly," I said, taking a bite. "We helped Mama pick the wild currants." "Mine, too," said Ronna, licking the red sweet from a corner of her mouth. "Here come the birds!" I said. "Mama said to eat your crusts!" my sister reminded me. "TI do, most of the time," I answered, tossing one to the hovering birds. 506 "Pour some milk into my cup," said my sister, holding it out. "You can drink one of these little cupfuls in one swallow," said Ronna, giggling. The birds cheeped and fluttered for tidbits, keeping their distance at the edge of the picnic place. We emptied and refilled the cups. The pile of sandwiches disappeared. When Mama came back for the pan and the dishes she said, "It's been an hour, Ronna. But do come again." Sometimes, as on that day, we walked part way with her, trundling the small-wheeled buggies over the dirt sidewalk. On the way we discussed our dolls' ailments, their colds and sore throats, their aches, and their occasional naughtiness. | My sister and I didn't go to Ronna's to play very often. When we did, we stayed out in the back yard making mud pies, patting them flat with sticks, and leaving them in the sun to dry. A week or two later when we were there my _ sister _ said, "Ronna, haven't you got a doll?" "Sure I have!" said Ronna. "I got her for Christmas!" "Where is it? Can we see it?" I asked. "T'll ask my mother." Ronna hurried to the house. In a few minutes she opened the back door and beckoned. With careful feet we walked onto the shining floor of the clean kitchen. Her mother said some word of greeting and stood looking down at us, her hands folded. For the first time that day I was conscious of my _ tousled hair and my dusty shoes. Ronna said, "Come on into the bedroom."'. She led the way and pointed to a shelf. There was the doll, smiling out from the slim box edged with paper lace, her beauty shielded by a lid of transparent Te ee Fs Fe AES ie 8 ie i ei   = = tS en OE "Oh it's  beautiful!" 'It's brand-new!" Ronna beamed. She stood on a stool and lifted the box down. Then she took the lid off and we gazed at the smooth, red-gold curls, the shimmering yellow silk dress, the white slippers and stockings. Ronna lifted the skirt, revealing filmy underwear. "Her eyes open and close, just like your dolls," she said. She tipped the box. Dark lashes curled softly on pink cheeks, like those of any fairy princess. "Real hair, too," Ronna said. "You can touch her, if you want tio." Our fingers were strangely clumsy, fingering the curls, stroking the yellow silk. After a few minutes Ronna put the lid back on the box, climbed iaterial. Our eyes widened. Ronna's Doll onto the stool, and restored it to the shelf. "Come on," she said. We followed her to the back yard. "Ronna, don't you ever play with your doll?" I asked. "Oh, sure, I hold the box, like today," she answered. "But don't you undress her?" I wanted to know. "Or feed her?" asked my sister, thinking, perhaps, of the many times milk had left a sticky trail down Crin's stomach. Ronna bent her head until her dark hair half hid her face. She poked one of the mud pies with the toe of her shoe. "No " she said slowly, "that would spoil her. My mother said so. I have to keep her in the box to keep her nice. Because she cost so much, I guess." "Your doll is sure pretty. Just like new," I said. "We have to go now. Goodbye, Ronna." All the way home our words exploded like popcorn. "Wouldn't it be awful to have a doll you couldn't even play with!" "Do you think it's jointed?" "It was still fastened in the box!" "It's sure pretty, though." "No prettier than Crin and Toodles when they were new." We hurried through the front hall to the bedroom and found our dolls still taking their naps. We snatched them from sleep with kisses. The aura of love that had veiled a dwindling of perfection was pierced by sudden awareness. We smoothed their dresses and combed their matted hair. We searched the bottoms of the buggies and the toy box for their shoes and stockings and bonnets. 507 July 1979 reassuring em brace. "Maybe Santa new wigs for Christmas '+ I ventured. Would bring  _ the hall, "J Can stay an hour va I had just put Toodles in the uggy. "All right. If you won't unI turned reluctantly toward the toy box for Something to wrap around Julia. Her Cheeks, "She's only a play with her! If "Go home then! Doll, a brand-new one. Play with your own doll!" I cried. I glared into  yes dark with anger, at tears Spilling onto flushed Cheeks, "] can't play with 508 my doll! And you know jt! I Ink you're Mean!" Ronna Shouted kitchen. "THY see if Mama is making the Jelly Sandwiches " she said. By the time back "Mama's making them. She Said to take the buggies out under the tree and eat out there," My sister reported. said that Ronna had gone home. But when Mama Set the pan down there were three cups in it. "I brought the big cups today," Mama told us, smiling all] around. "They don't Spill as easily as the dolly cups. Now, set your picnic out." Then she hurried back to the house. We began eating in Silence, glancing Sideways at each other as we took small bites. "Your mother makes good Sandwiches," said Ronna, at last. Jelly squirted at the corners of her mouth. White mustache!" said Ronna, giggling. Somehow our angry feelings disappeared with the Sweet jelly, the fresh bread, and cold milk. "Here come the birds," said my sister. "They can have my crusts," I said, tossing one recklessly. "Your hair won't be curly," Said Ronna. "Won't be anyway," I agreed. Breezes shook the locust tree and a few pods fell on our heads. Giggles mingled with the chirps of the darting birds. Hen Mama Came back to get the pan she Said, "It's been an hour, Ronna. But do come again." A long sigh slipped from between Ronna's lips. "Oh, I will!" She promised. Ronna's Doll By the next summer, Ronna and her parents had moved away from our town. With the beginning and ripenj after summer, Toodles and Crin and Julia and the Teddy bear, Christmas dolls for my own two little girls, one doll with braided hair and a red suit, the other with blonde curls, and wearing a blue formal. "They're lovely!" exclaimed my friend who was shopping with me. "But of course, you intend tokeep them put up forawhile? Too expensive for regular play, aren't they?" It wasn't the had glanced at gloves. Suddenly, out of memory, J Saw the beautiful untouched doll in its box on the shelf. J Saw again the smal] face, wet with tears of rage, and heard a child's voice echoing, "I can't play with my doll! And you know it!" Again my cheeks burned. "I should have let her play with Toodles that day," I said first time she MY mended My friend stared. Me?" with the dolls. They're for!" SMILE POWER Let me sight lonely ones today In throngs | meet, And let me smile lifting Heavy hearts and dragging feet.  Pearle M. Olsen 509 * "ine P inside and out.. A WOMAN'S TOUCH " There was land Dry. Barren, unappealing. Demanding. And taking the very lifeblood and soul Of those who dared to claim it. Then came a woman Whose heart cried out for beauty. With precious seeds and cuttings carried countiess miles Each one a memory of a much-loved garden. Then came beauty  The glory of God's creations Partnered with the woman's tender care and dreams and hopes 'a=. Blossomed as the rose.'  Theima A. Thacker MY c/Vlemory GARDEN Elaine J. Wilson w Today I walked in my flower garden, admiring each lovely color and scent. But I wasn't thinking of the plants alone. I was thinking of people. Most of the plants in my garden are gifts or exchanges from others. I have some small, gray succulents that were given to me by a very wonderful friend. When she was ill I went to help her and, as she regained her strength we walked in her garden and she gave me slips and starts of flowers and succulents. Her friendship is a warm treasure in my life. So, as I look at the star-like succulents and think of her, my inner self glows with warmth, too. Not so with my double Shasta daisies! These come from a friend who fills me with envy because she is so talented. As. I look at the stark white petals, I have to remind myself that I am getting close, too close, to envying her talents. What I must do is work harder to develop my own talents. There are the brilliant orange-red cannas with the deep plum-red foliage. These leaves make attractive floral arrangements, so neat and uncluttered. This is ironic because the woman who gave them to me is a poor housekeeper. But here, again, I must teach myself to be less critical, not to judge. Perhaps I would do no better if we exchanged places. As I look at my many Echeveria, I feel remorseful. How well I remember my young son rushing in to tell me that Mrs. Jones was giving us some hens and chickens. Without thinking, before he had a chance to say more, I snapped, "What will we do with chickens in a city!" After I had finished sputtering, he explained that they were hen and chicken plants. I had to apologize for my abruptness. Now, I have hen and chicks several places in my yard. When I look at them, I try to remember that I am inclined to jump to conclusions. I need to eliminate this factor from my life. I want to develop qualities of understanding and empathy. I think of the man who gave me several rhizomes of iris, saying, "Tris are the poor man's orchid." They are delicately beautiful despite their inexpensive cost. As it is in life, some of the more ordinary values are just as beautiful as those that seem more exotic. Old and tested friendships will, or should, mean more to us than knowing someone of notoriety, just because of who they are. I shall try to let my good friends and neighbors know that I love them and appreciate them and not just make a fuss over someone important. My garden brings much more into my life than bouquets of rainbow colors and perfume. It gives me a chance to evaluate myself and reflect on life's meaning, and to appreciate the goodness all around me. 511 Meatless Casseroles MARGARET'S RICE RING 3 c. Cooked rice, 1 c. Uncooked 4 c. Chopped green pepper rice 1 tbsp. Chopped onion 3 eggs slightly beaten 1 c. Grated cheese (nippy preferred) 1% c. Milk 2 to 3 tbsp. Chopped parsley 1 tsp. Salt 4 tbsp. Melted butter dash of pepper Mix the ingredients together in order listed. Pour into a greased 2-quart mold. Bake in pan of hot water in moderate oven for one hour. Fill ring with creamed peas and carrots or celery or any other combination you may desire. Serves 6 to 8. MILDRED'S MEATLESS LASAGNA 1%  . Chopped onion 2 tsp. Salt 1 clove garlic, minced 1 tsp. Basil (optional) 2 5-0z. Pkg. Noodles 2'' wide 3 tbsp. Cooking oil _ Ym |b. Cheese sliced #2 can tomatoes 1 c. Sour cream 1 tbsp. Chopped parsley  , c. Grated Parmesan cheese. 1 tbsp. Sugar 1 8 oz. Can tomato sauce Brown onion and garlic in hot oil. Add tomatoes, parsley, sugar, and seasonings; simmer one hour. Meanwhile cook noodles according to directions on package. Alternate noodles, sliced cheese, sour cream, Sauce, and grated cheese in 9'-pan. Bake 30 minutes in 350 degree oven. Cut in squares. Serves 8. CATHERINE'S CARROT CASSEROLE 22 c. Grated carrots 1 tbsp. Grated onion 3 eggs, beaten 1% tsp. Salt 11% tbsp. Butter melted 1% c. Grated cheese. 2 c. Cooked rice Cook the carrots in % cup boiling water for 5 minutes. Drain and save juice. Combine carrots with eggs, butter, rice, salt, onion, and cheese. Mix well and pour into greased baking dish. Bake in pan of hot water in moderate oven for 30 minutes. Sauce for Casserole: Measure carrot juice and add enough canned milk to make 2 cups. Melt 4 tbsp. Butter and stir in 4 tbsp. Flour. Stir in carrot and milk mixture. Cook until mixture thickens. Add 1 pkg. Frozen peas and cook until peas are tender. Serve over baked casserole mixture. Serves 6 to 8. PHYLLIS' CREAMED NOODLE RING 1 8-ounce pkg. Narrow noodles 2 tbsp. Grated onion 22 c. Medium white sauce Y% tsp. Dry mustard  y Ib. Cheese, grated 3 eggs, slightly beaten. Cook noodles in boiling salted water, rinse, and drain. Alternate layers of noodles and cheese, in greased 9-inch ring (2 qt. Ring mold). Pour remaining ingredients over noodles. Bake in pan of hot water in moderate oven for 30 to 40 minutes. Turn out on large platter and fill center with creamed vegetables. Serves 6 to 8. (To be continued) 513 .. W This afternoon my grandchildren and I Picking went picking potawatomies. These are the ] 7: small crimson wild plums that grow alon Potawatomies the ditch banks of the fields and   Mabel Luke Anderson and picking them is one of the delightful fall excursions we enjoy. After the first Indian summer days, when all nature is touched with golds and reds, the children start asking when we are going picking potawatomies (even the young ones on whose lips the big word is almost trapped). Last week we did go, but too soon. The plums need to be nipped with the frost to make them sweeter. It was not a trip in vain, though, for we saw the reapers getting in the last of the crops, and harvest fields awaiting the reapers, and heard the "fields of barley sigh like the sea and flow in gentle waves beneath the wind." On such occasions one can try to explain simply the age-old cycle of harvest from the plowing of the land to the gathering of the grains. Meadows were dappled with placid cattle and all contributed to serenity. Autumn has a gentleness all its own. This was one of the golden days, a lovely October day of leisurely mellow sunshine. As we wandered homeward laden with wild spoils of the harvest, the sun was sinking below clouds _tinged with rose and violet, the haze was rising over the fields, the tang of frost was in the air, and the scent of smoldering leaves. We agreed that the charm of October was special. I think the impact of autumn color against the blue arch of the sky cannot be matched at any other time of the year. Walking in the crisp country air, in quiet lanes, is like a balm after fever. There was a lovely silence about everything, but if one looked closely and listened there were live things about. As we rustled through the carpet of fallen leaves, a tiny field mouse went scurrying, Sparrows and starlings cried their objection to our sharing their feast. | remembered that poets tell of "birds singing from autumnal trees." We were lucky enough to see a squirrel fussily harvesting its winter's food. Gossamer threads clung to our faces and clothes. 514 Picking Potawatomies The afternoon was a blaze of color, the gray hills which form the backdrops to our valley were splashed with gold and green, russet and saffron. The fields were splendid from palest tans and yellows to rich brown. Even the weeds along the roadsides were colorful as if to atone for their useless life. On the plum trees, bright crimson fruit, touched with gold, was hanging among the foliage that the fingers of autumn were already painting yellow and bronze. As we walked among the trees, leaf after leaf lost its hold and fell slowly at our feet, unless occasionally whirled away by a playful breeze. Our baskets and buckets were soon filled to the brim with the tempting fruit. We knew why they were also called "squirt" plums. We could not resist one now and then and as we bit on the tough skin, the delectable juice squirted into our mouths. It was rewarding to put our hands up under the leaves and get several of the plump plums, offering a worthwhile vintage to a jellyintent housewife. I knew that soon they would be made into glowing jars of jams and jelly, with that tangy, tantalizing taste that only the wild fruits of the harvest produce. As we went home carrying the precious hoard, I recalled stories I had heard from pioneer lore of how abundantly the wild fruit provided special treats for the pioneers who had to live off the land. Autumn glory surely each year as we leave it we may forget its loveliness, and must go through the same process of wonderment, days of warm, mellow sunshine, the rich coloring of hill and field and meadow, the misty haze and the gorgeous sunsets. One of the best days of my autumn is when we gather the wild plums. YOU NEVER KNEW | KEPT ALL THESE The heart-shaped rock we found beside the spring, A feather from a blackbird's red-tipped wing.. This golden goblet of an April daffodil You found, the day we climbed the topmost hill.? A daisy with its last love-petal clinging.... A seashell with the ocean's song still singing. The time you whispered that we would never part  Yet picked for me this small, red bleeding-heart... This pine cone that you salvaged from the leaves  You never knew that | would keep all these. _ But such small treasures | have not kept in vain,..\. For | have all these memories. To relive again.  Alda Larson Brown 515 Mama Was a Hero-ine! Maryhale Woolsey @ That rain! Nobody in Willow Creek Valley would ever forget it. It was the talk for years to come; the old-timers declaring they had never seen its like in all their days; and the youngtimers declaring they hoped never to see its like in all theirs, again. It began the second evening after Papa started out for Huntington, our nearest railroad station, with a double-bed wagonload of honey to ship East. We had watched him drive away into the very early morning with the sun not up yet and the air crisp, and the team acting even more skittish than usual. "They'll quiet down after they've pulled this load a little while," Papa had said. "I? Ll have to rest them quite a lot. I hope you put up plenty of eats, Lib. 'll want to munch something every time I stop, most likely. 516 PA ples oe 're IP et 1: to do you a week, Jack," Mama said. For days and days Mama had been writing her list of things she hoped he could buy at the town stores. Things she couldn't often get at our country store, which was our post office, too. "Don't worry," she told Papa. "You may think I'm asking you to buy the town out, when you start buying things." Papa said, "Maybe I ought to give it a once-over right now...." He patted his shirt pocket where Mama had carefully pinned the folded-up shopping list. "No, I'll manage. I'll probably just hand the list over to that nice clerk in the Biggs Department Store, and let her get the stuff ready for me. Especially the woman stuff." Then Papa laughed, and Mama laughed, and Bill and Freddie and I laughed, too, because when both Mama and Papa laughed, nobody else could help laughing along with them. This talk had been over the breakfast table. Mama had fixed breakfast while Papa was out doing early chores and hitching up the horses. It has been exciting to get up in the night and do breakfastgetting and eating by lamplight, and to watch Papa climb up to his high wagon seat and sit a moment or two with the reins held tight, just looking around at us all. "You kids be good, now. See you mind Mama all the time." The wagon made queer little groans as the horses started up, and in another minute they were all turning down the lane. Passing the smaller gate in front of our house, Papa looked back and waved to us. We hurried to the porch, from where we could watch Papa cross the creek bridge and turn the corner a little farther on. He would be out -of sight then. Now we would go back to bed awhile, to make up our lost sleep. But I lingered a little longer, making believe I could' see through the hill and think about Papa's long day and wonder. To me it seemed wonderful to think of city people far away a thousand miles, maybe more  spreading biscuits or toast or even hotcakes with the luscious golden honey Papa's bees had gathered from alfalfa and clover fields through the long, hot summer days. And to remember Papa's saying to Mama how it meant a lot to us to get this load of early "prime" onto the eastern markets. He had practically smacked his lips as he said it as if he himself might have been a city man getting a first taste of that sweet, golden, brand-new crop honey! Mama Was a Hero-ine! The rainstorm blew in Tuesday night. The wind's noise awakened us, and the first thing we heard next morning was the patter of rain on our roof. That first day the rain was welcome. It had been many weeks since we had had any. We made rain hats out of folded newspapers, like the soldier hats we made in winter, to march around tables when we couldn't go outside. In the rain, now, we paraded up and down the walk from porch to gate, over and over, and even went out into the roadway where soft dust was becoming soft mud. When Mama called us in, we played games while she carefully unfolded our rainhats and spread the big sheets of paper over chairbacks to dry. The second day of rain was less gay, and we were already tired of staying inside. But when, by late afternoon, the rain was still pouring and the sky's dark grayness not a bit lightened, Mama pinned oilcloth capes around Bill and me and told us to put our rubbers on and come out back and help her carry in more wood frem the big pile Papa had been chopping and piling to last us while he was away. After supper Mama read to us and tucked us all in, smiling and hugging us each in turn, but I didn't go to sleep for what seemed a long time. I saw Mama standing by the front windows, as if hoping Papa would come driving up the lane, when we all knew that Papa wouldn't be coming before Friday night, and it wouldn't even be Friday morning until tomorrow! That night the rain poured fastest and loudest yet, and, 517 July 1970 when we got up next morning, our front and back yards were ponds of water. Freddie saw the ponds first, and as if he didn't believe what he saw from the window, he ran and opened the front door. "Oooh, lookie, lookie!" he exclaimed. "It's a lake out there! Well... Almost a lake." Bill and I scrambled over for a look. The front yard was all puddles, so wide and deep-looking that they did seem like one wide spread of water, dimpling and splashing a little as big raindrops fell into them.   Our woodpile was an island, a small hilly island standing up out of a yard full of that meanlooking, mud-colored water. Freddie, beside me in a moment, exclaimed, '""Mama, is it going to come right in our kitchen? It's trying to come up our steps!" "Do you think," I asked Mama, "it's raining like this all the way to Huntington and raining on Papa?" "T just wish I knew!" Mama said tightly. "I hope he didn't start back here yesterday afternoon... That road." Her shoulders gave a small shudder before she turned back toward the stove. "Come on, boys. Breakfast will be ready before you can count a hundred." We didn't try to argue, that fragrance could only mean cornmeal mush cooking, and we were hungry. "I wish it would stop!" Bill exclaimed, pulling stockings on. "IT'm tired of indoors play. It's no fun anymore." But that morning Mama let us make honey candy, a big kettleful which we didn't finish pulling 518 until past dinnertime. Dinner's lateness, however, didn't matter; we had sampled the cooking honey at every stage from no ball to soft ball and hard ball to the long-awaited crispy crackle, and we weren't hungry at all. In the afternoon we heard a shout from out front. Our nearest neighbor was sitting at our gate on his roan horse looking very wet, with rain making rivers down his black rubber jacket and down the horse's ribs and rump. We all went out onto the porch to hear what he said to Mama. "Thought I'd drop by and see if you're all right, Missus. Jack is away, isn't he?" "Yes, he is, Mr. Babson. He expected to be home before tonight, but I don't know...." "He may have some trouble, that hill road. You folks need anything?" "No, but thank you. I wish this rain would stop pouring down on us." "Tl amble along, then, and take a look at your bridge. The one up by Coles' place is gone. Coles came around collecting a crew to rebuild, rain or no rain. He's gone on to West's ranch, and I'm going by Scott's place to get a couple or so of his harvest hands and keep them out of mischief. Ill be coming back this way and I'll let you know what I see down there." He rode on, and shortly came back again. "Your bridge is all right so far, Ma'am. Can't tell though... I hope Jack makes it early, the creek may be rough tonight... So long, folks!" That afternoon the _frontyard lake as Freddie insisted on our calling it was lapping at the steps of the porch, and around the well's stone foundation. Mama put on her boots and rain cape and carried bucket after bucket of water. She filled all her big cooking kettles and the wash boiler and both washtubs. "Isn't it ever going to stop raining? And why," demanded Bill, "do we have to have all this water inside our kitchen?" "If the rain goes over the well's foundation the water will be too dirty to drink or to cook with. It would take several days for it to get clear again," Mama explained. Freddie went to a front window and stood a long time looking out at the rain and chanting, "Rain, rain, go away... Come again another day but not for a long time." His sober expressions made the rest of us laugh. We all began singing "Rain, rain, go away.. Don't come back for lots of days...." The singing made us feel better, and our supper of ham, potatoes and gravy, and canned peas, tasted very good, especially ending with chopped apples and cookies. We had eaten early. Mama finished first, and got up and ~ went to the windows again, look-   ing out at the sky. "Oh, I wish I knew where our Papa is!"' she exclaimed suddenly. | Later, when both Freddie and the baby were safely tucked in bed, Mama bent over Freddie and said, "Darling, Mama and Eddie and Bill have a job to do, and we have to leave you and Baby here awhile. Can you be a big man and wait quietly until Mama Was a Hero-ine! We get back? It's for Papa we have to do it," she added quickly, when Freddie's mouth opened and his smile changed to an unhappy look. "You'll help us do this for our Papa, won't you?" He nodded gravely and said, "Will Papa be home pretty soon?" "Soon we hope," Mama said. "Goodnight, darling. Sleep tight." In the sitting room Bill and I were waiting, listening, and regarding each other intensely. We were bursting with curiousity, and at the same time feeling more than a little scared. I tried not to show it, but I felt it and was sure Bill did, too. When Mama came in, carefully closing the bedroom door except for a little crack, we sat up straighter, and Bill asked, "Mama, what are we going to do?" "Well... You heard Mr. Babson say that our creek might be pretty rough tonight? Well, if Papa comes along in the stormy dark, he might have trouble with the horses because the water might be a flood and frighten them." "The horses might run away and Papa might get hurt," Bill said as Mama paused. "That's right, Bill. We are going down to the creek and put a light near the bridge so Papa will know there's danger there. Then he'll stop the horses in time, and find out what to do." "But won't the rain make our light go out?" I asked. "Not Papa's new lantern," Mama said. "It has a storm shield. But look... It's starting to get dark, so we have to hurry. Eddie, find your overshoes and Bill's." With warm sweater jackets 519 July 1970 under our oilcloth capes, and Mama wearing her tall boots and carrying the lighted lantern while Bill and I each carried a coil of rope, we soon emerged into the gloomy twilight world of storm. The lane was all soft mud except where small rivers ran along the wheel ruts. About halfway Bill stumbled a waterhidden stone turned beneath his foot, Mama thought it was. She let him hold the lantern while she tied rope around each of us, with spaces between, before going on. "This way," she said, "we can't get lost from each other." As we neared the creek, we could hear a roar of water. We stopped at the bridge and stared hard into the stream which seemed to reach high up its banks and had white edges that curled and twisted. Fear curled inside me; I had questions to ask, but was afraid my voice would shake and tell Mama and Bill what a scarecat I was. I saw Mama take hold of the bridge guide and step out onto the bridge, testing it. I had seen Papa do that once when we were having to ford a stream soon after a summer cloudburst. But Papa had used a pole. "It seems... Solid enough," Mama said. "Now, listen, I'll tie your end of the rope to that fence post back there, and this end of my rope around my own waist. It's a good long rope, it'll reach across -the bridge." "Mama! Do you have to go across the bridge?" Bill asked. "Of course. The lantern must be over there, because Papa must see it before he drives too near. But I'll be all right if you two 520 helpers will remember what I tell you and do it. If I yell, both of you pull hard on my rope. Hang onto it tight, and move back away from the bridge, because a yell would mean I've slipped off into the water, see? When I get across, though, Ill wave the lantern to tell you I'm all right. Do you understand everything?" We did, we assured her. She gave us each a quick kiss and stepped away onto the bridge. The water seemed to roar louder and louder. My heart seemed to stop beating every time the lantern bobbed the least bit, and coldness seemed to freeze me into an ice statue. At last the lantern moved high up and we knew Mama was safely on the other side. She moved on a little farther, and we could see, vaguely, the tree beside the road where she was hanging up the lantern, and tying it to a branch, and, at last, she was coming back towards us. It was Bill who thought about coiling the rope as she came nearer. It seemed to me that water was running, now, over the bridge itself. And, of course, now there was no lantern to watch, which would tell us Mama was safe. Then I saw that its little beam of light seemed to be following her. Faintly I could see the caped shape of her coming slowly nearer. What a joy, after that seemingly endless time, to have her back with us, safe and sound! We hugged and kissed her, not minding the least bit her wetness nor our own. Soon we were sloshing homeward again, and the sloshing had a glad, wonderful sound. Soon we could see a tiny square of light ahead, and knew it was the lamp in our front window, leading us through the deepening dark, our own lamp guiding us home. We had reached our gate when the sudden different sound reached us a loud dull boom, and with it a crashing of wood. An ominous cruel sound among the slithering, splashy noise of the rain. Mama's mann caught, mixed with a queer moaning, "Oh oh.. Like a long loud sigh. "It's gone," she said. "Oh, aren't we glad we went and put a light to warn our Papa!" Inside our house, all was quiet. And warm. We got out of our dripping rain wear and into night things and cuddly crocheted slippers. Mama surprised us with cups of hot chocolate. Then we knelt together and said "Amen'"' to Mama's prayer that our Father in heaven would watch over our Papa wherever he might be this stormy night. And then we went happily to bed. We were eating breakfast, next morning, when we heard shouting. First, quite near, the familiar "Halloo-o0-00-ooh!" that was neighbor Elmy's greeting, different from anyone else's we knew. And then, farther away  and down our lane but indistinguishable as to words, our Papa's voice. We rushed to open the front door and out onto the porch, all of us together. Rain was still falling, but less of it, and the drops barely dimpled the front-yard lake. Our porch steps were above water, and the well's foundation showed plainly. Mama Was a Hero-ine! These I noted in one swift look before my eyes found what they sought: Papa. Papa, riding Eagle, bareback, and _ leading Prince along behind. I never have been able to remember what words ran through the joyous bedlam that followed. I do remember Mama asking, when Papa and Elmy had reached our gate together and stopped, "Where's the wagon?" in an alarmed tone, and Papa's reply, through a wide grin, "On the other side of the creek. The horses could wade, but the wagon has to wait till the water goes down some." After awhile, a sudden hush fell around us. Papa was asking  repeating something he had already asked but said again because Mama was stammering so. "I said, who hung my new lantern down in that tree last night?" Why  I did... I was Bit by bit, we 'told Papa all about it, while Papa just sat and stared as if he couldn't believe it. It was Elmy who said at last, "You're a brave girl, Libbie. A brave girl if I ever saw one. What a woman! Jack, do you know how lucky you are, having a wife like her?" Mama's face was all pinky, and Papa's was even pinker. He said after a long silent time, "She'll do, I guess." I sat still, thinking the great thought our Mama was a heroine, brave as any in a book! I looked out the window, amazed. The sun was shining! The bad storm was quitting, and Papa was safe at home again, and Mama our own Mama had become a hero-ine! 99 521 The Catch-All Drawer Louise Wynn One of the first things I remember about our old house is the catch-all drawer. It was unlike the other drawers in the kitchen. It didn't hold just silverware or just dish towels and pot holders. It held tinkertoys, pick-up sticks, marbles, jar lids, can openers, nails, screws, thumbtacks, paper clips, a monkey wrench, a hammer, a screwdriver, and anything and everything else for which we didn't have a special place. The catch-all drawer was a treasure box for a small child. We could find anything we wanted in it, and it always contained a few things we couldn't even identify. We never had to go all the way out to the garage to find the right nail for hanging up the picture we had just made in Primary. Mother could find the baby's lost diaper pin there. If we ran out of houses and hotels for the Monopoly game, we could be sure to find enough in the catch-all drawer. If we couldn't think of any games to play, Mother would get an empty spool, a piece of soap, and a rubber band from the drawer, along with a knife and toothpick to make a little wind-up machine that would roll wherever we pushed it. When we moved into our new house I was about eight years old. I was helping Mother arrange things in the kichen, and I noticed that one drawer was still empty. I said, "Oh, good, this one will be the catch-all drawer.'"' Mother's quick answer was that we weren't going to have a catch-all drawer any more. ''We're in a new house now, and we're going to do things differently. All those things we used to put in the catch-all drawer are going to be put where they belong." We children found out soon that Mother had similar plans for all areas of our new life. We would no longer throw our schoolbooks and coats on the living room couch when we got home from school. No more dirty hand marks on sinks and towels. No more unmade beds in the morning, no more mud tracks in the house in the winter, and so on. She really did try to change us, but somehow we knew that none of us would change permanently just because of our new house. We were all the same no matter where we lived, and as the strange new house became our familiar home, even Mother would forget to enforce her new rules. The drawer I had chosen to be the catch-all drawer became just that in a few months it had become a habit and a necessity for us as had many other things. As we children grew up, we learned gradually to care for the household articles and we remembered to make our beds and do the dishes without being told, but we never stopped using the catch-all drawer. Now I see in my own married life patterns developing and habits forming just as in my childhood family, and my explanation of this is simple. The catch-all drawer in the new house is my reminder that my future life depends on what I do now as much as what I am now is the result of my actions in the past. _   ooo WONDERING Mother, when you were a girl, When you were just my age, Was 'lectricity invented? Were bustles all the rage? Mother, when you were a girl You had no T. V. Set! Tell me, then, did you and Daddy Dance the minuet?  Louise S. Davis 522 A Day At A Time Mary Clough Several years ago we planted some giant sunflower seeds. They grew taller and taller, and one day we noticed that the leaves turned with the sun during the day. We had always thought it was just the flowers that did so. Eventually the flowers unfolded and became larger than dinner plates and faithfully followed the sun's orbit each day. One night about eleven o'clock we happened to turn a flashlight on one of the flowers. It had been facing west before dark, but now it had turmed again and was facing east, waiting for the sun to come up in the morning. We flashed the light on the others and found they, too, were waiting with faces to the east. We continued to observe them at night and found they were always turned expectantly to the east before midnight. In a few weeks, when they had fulfilled their purpose, they were too heavy with seeds to turn and follow the sun, so they remained motionless with heads bowed to the east. I thought there must be some kind of lesson or inspirational thought to be gained from this, and so I wrote the following lines: NN Vy A DAY AT A TIME pt La Have you ever watched the sunflowers ' aw: ~ That follow the path of the sun?, = SS They slowly turn from east to west Until the day is done. In the darkness they turn east again And before the midnight hour They're awaiting dawn's gentle fingers To strengthen each golden flower. When the dark of night overtakes you And you find you are not through With all the tasks that life requires And you're tired and discouraged, too; You also can look forward To the first faint light of day And ask the Lord to give you strength As you kneel to him and pray; 7 Having faith that he will help you i In his wisdom, so sublime, To overcome the trials of life A As you take a day at a time. SAN FRANCISCO The sea the sky, in mist The city floats, Never static Like the mountains Are static. Frozen waves Are the mountains, The sea and the city move.  Grayce E. Cutler. Ges =~ oe a Catherine O'Donnell Kemp Hiatt, Riverton Stake, Utah, is always eager to learn new methods or kinds of handiwork. Her home and the homes of her family and many friends are beautified by the various types of work she has completed. Her quilts are beautiful creations of many types, and she is always willing to help others to learn the arts she has enjoyed for so many years. Sister Hiatt is the mother of ten children. There are forty-eight grandchildren and. Twenty-two great-grandchildren. All of them have received lovely gifts made especially for them. In Relief Society, Sister Hiatt has served for many years as quilting chairman, and for forty-eight years she has been a faithful visiting teacher. She has performed with the Singing Mothers for many years. All who know her are inspired by her love of life. Lucinda Hurst Cardon, Mesa Stake, Arizona, has been quilting for eighty-one years, or since she was eight years old, and she is still making quilts for her family and for Relief Society. In her patchwork quilts, the materials bring back fond memories of clothing she has sewed. She has made at least one quilt for each of her ten children, forty-seven grandchildren, 103 great-grandchildren, and one great-great-grandchild. In addition to her quilting, she attends eight or ten temple sessions each week. She has been an active worker in the Church organizations, and is still a visiting teacher in Relief Society. Everyone who knows her is impressed by her devotion to the gospel and her love for others. Jerusha Spends the Night Hazel K. Todd Chapter 7 Conclusion @ Jerusha had insisted on Suzey's going with her girl friends to a special movie. Suzey had taken Amy's death very hard, she had had her care so much before Jerusha came. "It will be good for you," Jerusha said. She had finished the dishes and was just replacing the broom to the closet after sweeping the floor when she noticed Paul sitting by the window in the living room. He was_ holding Lynn's letter and gazing out the window in a preoccupied way. "He cares for her," she said to herself, "but he will never do anything about it." She thought a minute watching him from her distance. "Not with things the way they are now." She thought a minute longer, and then she patted her hair into place, took off her apron and folded it neatly on the kitchen table, straightened her shoulders and walked with quick steps over and sat down by him. He turned and smiled at her. "T've been thinking for awhile now," Jerusha began, "that it is about time I went home." He stared at her. "I was just going to spend the night, you remember." "But I thought this was going to be your home, Jerusha." "But [havea little house under a wild crab-apple tree in West Virginia." "We can't do without you. You belong to us!" "Now don't say anything outlandish like that," Jerusha quipped. "You know very well you got along before I came. Besides, you need a new start. That's what makes life get somewhere." He was silent a moment. "I should be getting used to losses," he said. "Now, don't go feeling sorry for yourself. You aren't that way, Paul Wilson!" "I'm sorry," he said apologetically. He looked at her lovingly. "It's just that we have come to love you so much and depend on you. I know we can't be selfish." "Nonsense!" she _ ejaculated. "You know I've had the time of my life." She paused. "You know, I found the two most precious things of my life here. I can't wait to convert all my old friends!"' she chuckled. "That'll be a good project. Besides," she added, "who said anything about divorcing 525 July 1970 myself from the Wilsons? [ll be back to pester you every once in awhile." "At least that will be something to look forward to," he said. She gazed at him tenderly. "T did keep my promise, you know. I stayed as long as Amy needed me." "Yes," he said, "I wish there were some way to show you how grateful I am." She looked down at the letter in his lap. "There is," she said and smilled at him through the corner of her eye. "Just don't let go of that letter. And read it once in awhile." She stood up and laid her hand devotedly on his shoulder. "Good night, son," she said. "TI just took a job teaching Sunday School for as long as I'm here. I've got a lot of studying to do." The next morning Paul was waiting for Jerusha in_ the kitchen before the family awoke. "T've been thinking," he said with his usual courtesy, "it would be best not to tell the children yet that you're leaving." "Of course," she said reassuringly, "I'm not going to run away tomorrow. I'll give you plenty of time to work things out." She added, "And since I don't have Behemoth to ride back in, I have to think about it awhile. Besides, winter is dull traveling with nothing to see but snow and naked trees. Maybe when the spring flowers start blooming, I'll just take a bus tour and end up at my little house." "Maybe you'll change your mind by then." She looked at him fondly but unrelentingly. "Please don't count on it," she said. 526 Christmas was coming, and Jerusha pitched into the preparations with so much enthusiasm that no one in the family could escape the contagion. The Christmases since Dorothy had been gone had not been such happy events as this. Paul had provided gifts for his children. They had put up a Christmas tree. Friends had brought gifts and invited them to dinner, but there had been no one to bake fruit cakes and fancy cookies, to produce trays of fudge and taffy and piles of carmel corn. There had not been holly wreaths on the doors and snow men on the window panes, and a sprig of mistletoe tied with red ribbon from the light fixture in the living room. "I must work extra hard," Jerusha told herself, "to make up for the absence of little Amy." She was arranging a nativity scene on top of the bookcase. She paused and looked at the Indian doll still standing on the shelf with its feather headdress and its fringed jacket. How little Amy would have loved to help her fix the Christmas things! She wiped her eyes with the corner of her apron and scolded herself. "See here, Jerusha Appleby, you know very well little Amy is all night. Where is a better place for a child at Christmas than with her own mother! Fine example you are trying to promote happiness around here and blubbering yourself!" So she pinned a tiny bell on the brown fringe of the doll's jacket and hummed a bit of "Away in a Manger" they had sung last Sunday in Sunday School.       Joe and Suzey picked out the Christmas tree and brought it home, beaming with pride. It was a densely needled pifon with a beautifully tapered top. They stood it in front of the window and covered it with spangles of glory. "It's just right," Jerusha exclaimed to the pair. Joe's dark eyes flashed with pleasure. "We thought you would like it, Jerusha. It just seemed to match you." "Never knew I looked like a tree before," Jerusha laughed, "especially a fat one." That brought a snicker from Dennis, so they hung a few more tinsel bells just to show it didn't matter if she resembled a Christmas tree. Then it was the day before Christmas, and everyone was jittery with excitement. Along in the afternoon the door opened and Ruth Johnson and Lynn came in with their arms loaded with gaily wrapped packages. There were greetings and handshakes and everybody talking at once. "You've driven me_ beyond good sense," Paul declared as he came bringing a few more bright bundles out of hiding and stacked them under the tree on the already extravagant "So what!" Jerusha chuckled. "After all Christmas only comes once a year. Blame it on me. I've never had a family since I was a youngun." And she pulled him under the mistletoe, climbed up on a chair, and kissed him squarely on the forehead. Suzey had such a good time over it that Paul pulled her under the spot and planted a kiss Jerusha Spends the Night on her cheek. And then he grabbed Dennis snickering behind a chair. Dennis took the kiss on his nose as a matter of course, wiping the place with his sleeve. "Don't look at me," Joe ejaculated, gazing about the room as if he needed a place to escape. His eyes caught on Lynn standing under the Christmas tree. He snatched her by the hand and dragged her off guard. Under the magic sprig. "Next!" he said, a peculiar twist to his teasing smile. Jerusha's heart made a queer flip-flop. She waited breathlessly. Paul stood a minute tall and stately, his fine masculine face filled with some sort of strange conflict. He was looking intensely into Lynn's face, blushed pink with excitement. A wisp of brown hair fell over her face, and she brushed it away unconsciously. Then he took her in his arms and kissed her tenderly on the lips. Nobody said anything. They just stood there waiting until he held her from him, looking lovingly into her face as though no one else were there. "Lynn, darling, will you marry me?" he asked. Her eyes sparkled with happiness. "Of course I will, you big lovable lug!" she said, and he drew her head onto his shoulder. Joe broke the silence. He grinned sheepishly. "Here I just try to keep from getting kissed by a man, and I end up with a stepmother." "How about this gang, Lynn, can you take them?' Paul asked. "Never found one yet," she 527 July 1970 said with a wink at Dennis, "that I couldn't handle." Ruth was picking up her coat. "T have a lot of things to do, and I'm sure you don't want to go with me just now, Lynn," she said with mock sobriety. "Tl bring her back," Paul smiled. Ruth stopped at the door and turned, smiling. "Looks like I've lost my Christmas guest," she said, "unless we double up." "At our house!" Jerusha and Paul said almost together, and Jerusha added, "This calls for a real celebration." A few days after Christmas, Jerusha rode. Into town with Ruth to do some shopping. When she returned, she found Paul and Lynn waiting for her. "We want to talk to you," Paul said. Jerusha looked from one to the other shrewdly. "Been plotting something most unreasonable," she said slyly. "I can tell by the looks of you." "Not unreasonable,' Lynn laughed. Then she arose from her chair and came to Jerusha and took her two wrinkled hands in her own. "Jerusha, were afraid you're going to leave because of us, and we don't want you to. We love you. We want you." "You belong to us, Jerusha," Paul said. A lump of gratitude and love arose in Jerusha's throat, but she swallowed it sternly, giving herself a mental poke. "Nonsense! I'm leaving because it's about time I took care of my own house. Probably has cobwebs hanging clear to the floor." 528 "T told you it wouldn't do any good," Paul said to Lynn. "Can't we induce you to stay?" Lynn pleaded. "Nope." She unloaded her packages on the table. "When is this big event going to transpire?" she asked. "As soon as Lynn's school is out in the spring," Paul said. "Good!" Jerusha mused aloud. "Just about time for me to get - things in order. And I think you'd better tell the family now." She chuckled. "They ought to be willing to trade an old wrinkled bag for a pretty young goblin hunter." "You're really hopeless!" Lynn laughed. "But, Jerusha, what are you going to do for a car?" Dennis asked when the aftermath of the news to the family subsided. "You don't have Behemoth any more." "Don't rightly know yet, Dennis," Jerusha said, "probably ride an excursion bus and have the time of my life with a new experience." The winter fled rapidly. Paul was as though he had taken a new lease on life. He whistled about his work, and no more did she find him silent and somber as he went about. Once she caught him with the Indian doll in his hands. He was standing looking at it thoughtfully. "Do you think Amy would ever have accepted it from Lynn?" he asked. "Why, of course she would," Jerusha said. "She just needed a little time." Paul took her hand as he had done that night when she had promised him not to leave Amy. They stood a moment facing each other, remembering, sharing the same poignant cadences of a sweet memory. Then she softly slipped her hand away, placed it fondly on his arm a minute, and then smiled and went on about her dusting. So spring came with its crocuses and its daffodils, its songbirds and its butterflies freeing themselves from their winter cocoons, spring with all its bursting new life. The time for other new beginnings was close. Jerusha had her things in order. The house had been cleaned from basement to attic, the clothes cleaned and pressed, patched, and buttons sewed on. "Don't want to leave any of my neglect around for a new bride," she said. Every time anyone went to town, they brought her back a packet of travel folders. She marked out a route here and a route there. "But I haven't found just the right one yet," she said. And then, one evening after she had noticed curious whisperings for two or three days among the four of them, they suddenly all burst in upon her at once. "There's something we want you to see," Paul said. And Suzey tied a blindfold over her eyes. "Land sakes alive!" Jerusha exclaimed, "I haven't played Blind Man's Bluff for more than fifty years!" They led her from the room and slipped the blindfold from her eyes. "Surprise!" they sang in chorus as her eyes beheld the modest shiny new car. "Mercy!" she gasped, "not for me not another Behemoth!" Jerusha Spends the Night "Not Behemoth, Jerusha. We named it New Start because of someone very near and dear to us who taught us all about new beginnings." Paul put his arm about her shoulders. "It isn't half enough for what you have done for us!" "And I'll bet it won't conk out like Behemoth did either," Dennis said, grinning at her. "And it will take you on any route you want," Suzey smiled happily. She turned to Joe with misty eyes. "And what could you say?" she asked of the jaunty young man whose hard-earned confidences she so cherished. He dropped his eyes to the ground and scraped the toe of his shoe across the dirt. Then he looked into her face with frank admiration. "Just that I hope this car will bring you back." "Every summer, I promise, for an anniversary visit in memory of the day Behemoth broke down." And then she went around the circle of her dear ones and kissed each one, and even Joe made no bones. So the last few weeks marched away, and Lynn and Paul were married and returned from their wanderings. It was a bright summer morning in June. The rose garden was covered with glory. The bachelor's-button row along the fence was a maze of blue waving in the morning breeze. Jerusha was packed snugly in her new car among a pile of going-away presents from so many friends. "It was such a nice overnight stay you invited me on, partner," 529 July 1970 she said to Dennis, standing long-faced with Skeeter and the others. "What'd you have to go for?" he said soberly. "Ah," she said with a sunny smile, "next time I break down in front of your gate, I'll probably be too old to go back." Paul caught her words quickly. "There'll always be a welcome sign, Jerusha." "Your room will be waiting," Lynn promised. Jerusha gazed out over the familiar surroundings that had become so dear to her to the willow tree with the bench where little Amy had rocked her doll, to the ridge where Dennis had gathered stink weeds, to the hen house where she had won Joe. Her eyes rested fondly on them a minute and then returned to her friends. "Next time I break down," she said, "Ill just trade my little house under the apple tree for one at the end of the lane." "We'll do just that!" Paul said, his face lighting. So she rode away down the lane through the gate that had been left open for her. For a minute she looked at the sunflower patch at the side of the road where Behemoth had rested until the junk man was summoned to haul it away. She chuckled to herself softly, blinked a sudden tear from her eye, and sped away down the highway, the wheels in her head beginning to spin out the details of her new adventure. Hemlock greens the streaming miles, And fir communes with the gentle sky. Gold, green, and fallow-brown lie DEPARTED FROM DESERT The checkered fields, quilting all distances. The unwinking black eyes of berries Dorothy J. Roberts Coax, by the roadside. Frail mist weds the sun, And the tossing sea talks in incessant liquid Accent to the shore. Beauty drops Its easy mantle to all periphery While | remember one white lily, Determined, on the blistering hills of sand. 530 Relief Society Activities Since The Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue, stake Relief Society presidents and mission Relief Society supervisors are advised to make no further submissions of ''Notes From the Field," inasmuch as 2 sufficient number of Notes are already on hand for the remaining issues of the Magazine. Palomar Stake (California) Relief Society Pres Fashion Show," February 13, 1970 Palomar Stake Relief Society officers, seated, left to right: Arvella McArthur, First Counselor, Phyllis F. Fox, President; Shirleymae Jones, Second Counselor. Standing, left to right: Mary Stucki, social relations class leader, Amaretta Graves, Magazine representative; Ethel Wallace, commentator for fashion show; Virginia Wynn, Katie Clinger. Lynn Davis; Barbara Adair; Nina Loefke; Betty Wahlen, Rosemarie Bunker. Sister Fox reports: "A delicious roast beef dinner was served to over 300 persons prior to a delightful fashion show. The theme for the event was 'Old-Fashioned Sweethearts.' Sisters from eight wards and one branch participated. "Fashions from the late 1800's and early 1900's were modeled by members of the stake board. Other fashions ranged from evening clothing to at-home clothing. Also modeled was a bridal gown." ERRATUM: On page 234, The Relief Society Magazine, March 1970, the Note From the Field credited to the Central States Mission should have been listed: Central Atlantic States Mission Holds Convention, September 6, 1969. 531 July 1970 East Pocatello Stake (Idaho), Sixth Ward Singing Mothers Present Concert, January 25, 1970 Front row, left to right: Alice Eskelsen, narrator, Cheryl Redd, soloist; Maude Smith, President, Pocatello Sixth Ward Relief Society; Ranae Wright, First Counselor; Ardath Johnson, President, East Pocatello Stake Relief Society; Ethel Clark, Second Counselor, Sixth Ward Relief Society. Second row, left to right: Edna Drake, organist, East Pocatello Stake Relief Society; Mary Diana, chorister, Sixth Ward Relief Society. Sister Johnson reports: ''Our Sixth Ward Singing Mothers presented a concert in sacrament meeting. The group sang Six numbers, and songs were presented by a soloist, two trios, and a sextet. The program was narrated and two talks were presented."   Long Beach Stake (California) Relief Society Makes Red Cross First Aid Program Available to Sisters Seated, Linda Terry. Standing, left to right: Alma Dewey; Burnetta Johnson, Berlinda Hawkins; Carolyn Polly; Rene Page; Estella Young; Anna Barner, Carol McCloud; Jennie Mae Taylor; Max A. Bryan, instructor. Reba Williams, President, Long Beach Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We are making a Red Cross First Aid program available to all sisters in the stake. In February we graduated our first eighteen women, and a new class began in March with thirtysix enrolled. "We have a wonderful instructor in our former stake president, and now stake executive secretary, Max A. Bryan. He has taught first aid to the city firemen, and we feel fortunate to have him. Those receiving the course are trained to give immediate and temporary aid to victims of an accident or sudden ilIness, and better to care for accidents or illnesses in the home." Santa Monica Stake (California) Relief Society Sponsors Nursery Program Seminar, January 30, 1970 Seated, left to right: Doris N. Werner, Counselor, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society; Grace Dimter, Evelyn Astle. Standing, left to right: Nancy Warren; Louise Ahligrim; Mary Kendrick; Laurie Evelyn Bluth, President, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society, reports: "Under the direction of Sister Doris Werner, each ward in the stake was asked to gather teaching materials for the lessons for an assigned month. These materials were displayed at the seminar. One ward prepared a homemade wooden puzzle and some patterns for making flannel board figures to g0 along with one of the lessons. "Several inspiring and informative talks were given to help those in attendance foster a better nursery program. Highlight of the seminar was 4 demonstration lesson given by Jean Wood, using several children. "As a gift of encouragement from the stake board, each ward was furnished with a kit of materials for making rhythm instruments. A buffet luncheon was served by the stake board." 582 *OLA THEME 1980 26 Moun 94 July 1970 South Bear River Stake, Tremonton First Ward Relief Society Sisters Learn Candy-Dipping Skills Homemade candy being boxed by Roberta Fronk and Iris Mortenson, chairman of the candy project. Lrene P. Kerr, President, South Bear River Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Tremonton First Ward of our stake has instituted a successful fund-raising project. Early in October, a special committee begins to shop for choice nuts, chocolate for dipping, and other ingredients which go into making candy. After the planning and shopping, the centers are made and stored to mellow. "Shortly before Thanksgiving, all sisters who would like to participate are called to a two-day 'sweetmeet.' Here the work is carried out in assembly line fashion, with sisters molding centers, applying an extra bottom of coating, repairing rejects, placing the candy on trays. The sisters who are skilled in the art of dipping chocolates patiently teach anyone who wishes to learn. The candy is placed in one, two, and three-pound boxes and stored for holiday use. Over 300 pounds of candy were sold before Christmas. A special booth at the bazaar featured the candy. "Ella Holt is president of the Tremonton First Ward Relief Society." San Fernando Stake (California) Conducts Home Nursing Program Front row, at left: Ina Easton, President, San Fernando Stake Relief Society. Back row, at left: Eva Schaub, Homemaking Counselor. At far right: Sandra Finley, trained nursing instructor. Sister Easton reports: ''We have appreciated the cooperation of the Red Cross in conducting two initial training classes for our home nursing program, as well as for providing the equipment we use. '"'We feel that the program is successful. Already fifty-four women hieuse enrolled in the program, and many more intend to." Weber Stake (Utah) Spanish Branch Actively Engaged In Relief Society Activities Seated in front: Leota Shupe, Counselor, Weber Stake Relief Society; lone Hurst, President. Standing, left to right: Ruby Martinez, Secretary-Treasurer, Spanish Branch Relief Society; Amada Satelo, Second Counselor; Angela Jacabo; Sarah Mitton; Eva Nelson; Roy H. Maughan, Branch President; Emma Poole; Rose Martinez; Consepcion Ramos; Henriatta Barker, organist; Wilma Minjarez, President. Sister Hurst reports: ''The presidency of the Spanish Branch Relief Society are dedicated in carrying out their responsibilities, although the branch is very widely scattered. During the canning season the sisters were taught to preserve fruits and vegetables. Sister Minjarez invited those who could come to her home to learn there. She and her counselors visited the homes of those who were unable to come, taking her own equipment. "The Relief Society is making quilts, and the sisters are carrying a full Relief Society program, although visiting teaching is a challenge because of transportation problems. This branch has just completed its second assessment toward the Ogden Temple. Their projects have been making tamales, enchiladas, pillows, and other articles. We are very proud of their efforts and they are an inspiration to all of us."' 534 EEE EE ee x TG A Garitde-in UOEG  67 yerorey Se - Nw July 1970 Walnut Creek Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Christmas Concert, December 7, 1969 Front row in white dress: Francelle E. Larsen, chorister, Walnut Creek Stake Relief Society; second row, extreme right: Nada Fluckiger, organist. Muriel P. Cottle, President, Walnut Creek Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Singing Mothers concert was enthusiastically received by a large audience, which was most gratifying, as it was specifically a missionary effort. "The concert began by foretelling the birth of Christ in scripture and song. This was followed by joyous music heralding his birth, and we closed with praises to God the Father, and the Son. 'Selections by the individual ward choruses were directed by the ward choristers, and the stake group combined for several numbers. An especially lovely flute obligato was performed by Annette Bristol and a drum accompaniment on snare drums was performed by Patrice Keddington. Narrator for the concert was Beryl Harmon." Ben Lomond Stake (Utah), North Ogden Fifth Ward Uses Unique Quilt To Aid Building Fund Officers of North Ogden Fifth Ward Relief Society, left to right: Alberta Roberts, First Counselor; Norine Jensen, President; Arlene Terry, Second Counselor; Orvil Terry, Bishop; Barbara Leatherow, quilting chairman. Margaret C. Jones, President, Ben Lomond Stake Relicf Society, reports: "A unique fund-raising project was undertaken by one of the ward Relief Societies in our stake. The sisters sold signatures to be placed on a quilt which was presented to the bishop along with a sizeable sum of money for the building fund. Even the young members of the ward were able to sign the quilt. In the center of the quilt is a reproduction of the building. It is a beautiful, artistic quilt and sure to be treasured by the bishop for many years to come." Japan Mission, Hokkaido District Singing Mothers Sing at Conference February 1970 Elsie M. Bills, Supervisor, Japan Mission Relief Society reports: ''Singing Mothers representing the Sapporo, Muroran, Asahigawa, and Otaru Branches of our mission sang at district conference. "Relief Society is progressing very well in this district of the mission and we are very proud of the sisters here. A full program of Relief Society is being carried out in the branches, including a morning and an evening Relief Society in the Sapporo Branch. 'The Singing Mothers were conducted by Masako Ito and accompanied by Tatsuko Koreyasu. District President is Janet Hirano, and her counselors are Hisako Yanagisawa and Hideko Katagiai, with Yumiko Asari as secretary." 536 580 STAG) ~ HOME MAKING Nebo Stake (Utah) Relief Society Holds Homemaking Festival February 19, 1970 Nebo Stake Relief Society officers, left to right: Grace A. Wightman, SecretaryTreasurer; Betty H. Winegar, First Counselor; Delphia F. Holdaway, President; Edith T. Hiatt, Second Counselor; Pearl B. Winnie, homemaking leader. Sister Holdaway -reports: "All of the wards in the 'stake helped to make our Homemaking Festival a memorable occasion. Quilts, pictures, paintings, ceramics, needlepoint, and other interesting articles of handicraft were displayed and help given to those who wished to learn how to make various articles. "The sisters were enthused and happy with the attendance, and felt it was a most worthwhile experience. Refreshments were served by the stake board."' 538 Lesson Department Serre Ceerer res % * - SPIRITUAL LIVING   = Pearl of Great Price Ml * * % * % %* OK KK 6 2K OK KK OK OK KKK KK KKK     Lesson 1 oan - - The Origin of the Pearl of Great Price Reading Assignment: The entire Pearl of Great Price Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help the Latter-day Saint woman to obtain a stronger testimony of the Pearl of Great Price as scripture. INTRODUCTION When The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized on April 6, 1830, two books of scripture were available for the instruction and guidance of the members of the Church. The first of these, the Holy Bible, accepted by Christendom as its guide to salvation, had, in 1820, inspired the boy Joseph Smith to seek guidance from God as to which of all the contending churches was God's Church. In March 1830, the second ancient scripture, the Book of Mormon, was published that modern man might learn that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, the true way of salvation, and that disobedience to God's commandments will bring destruction to modern nations as it did to two great _ pre-Columbian civilizations upon the American Continent. By 1835 therevelationsreceived by the Prophet Joseph Smith were available to the Church under the title the "Doctrine and Covenants of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." Subsequent editions of this book of scripture contained additional revelations. By 1921 this book contained its present number of 136 sections. As the Doctrine and Covenants had developed through several 539 July 1970 editions by the addition and deletion of some materials, so also did the Pearl of Great Price, the fourth standard work of the Church. The Pearl of Great Price, printed firstin Liverpool, En gland, in 1851, was published by Elder Franklin D. Richards, a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles who was presiding over the British Mission. From 1878 to 1921 other editions were published in Salt Lake City. Many printings have been made since that date. THE MODERN BEGINNING OF THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE (Some of the following information was derived from the excellent book The Story of the Pearl of Great P ce, written by Dr. James R. Clark, member of the Brigham Young University faculty.) From 1837, the time the gospel was introduced into Great Britain, until the first printing of the Pearl of Great Price, large numbers of people had accepted the gospel, many of whom had migrated to America. In fact, by 1850 over one-half of the mem bership of the Church, or about 31,000, resided in Great Britain, while 175000 were in Utah Territory, and the rest were in other parts of the United States. Sensing the need to provide members of the Church in Great Britain, two-thirds of whom were converts to the Church of four years or less, with instructional materials, Elder Richards gathered from various Church publications the very important 540 articles with which he made up the 1851 edition of the Pearl of Great Price. CONTENTS OF THE FIRST EDITION Only three of the fifteen items in the first edition of the Pear] of Great Price had appeared in one of the standard works in the 1835 edition of the Doctrine and Covenants had appeared sections 20, 27, and 107. Elder Richards apparently felt that these revelations on priesthood and Church government should be known to the saints in the British Mission through both the Pearl of Great Price and the Doctrine and Covenants. They were contained in the Pearl of Great Price until 1902, the fifth major edition of that book. The following Scriptures were first published in the first edition of the Pearl of Great Price: (1) the revision of Matthew 24, (2) Doctrine and Covenants, section 77, and (3) Doctrine and Covenants, section 87. The following items had appeared in other Church publications, beginning in 1832 until 1850, and are found in the present edition: (1) Writings of Joseph Smith, Part 2 (divided into two parts), (2) Book of Moses (in two parts in the first edition), (3) Book of Abraham, and (4) Articles of Faith. The poem, "Truth," known more familiarly as the hymn "Oh Say, What Is Truth?" was also included from 1850 to 1902. All the Doctrine and Covenants' revelations once in the Pearl of Great Price were deleted from the 1902 edition. One of these, Doctrine and Covenants section 132, appeared in the Pear] of Great Price in the 1878 edition. Class Discussion Wherein does the first edition (1851) of the Pearl of Great Price differ from the present (1921) edition? CANONIZATION The canonization of the Pearl of Great Price as scripture for the Church as a whole was performed in the Fiftieth Semiannual General Conference of the Church held October 10, 1880. After President George Q. Cannon, counselor in the First Presidency, presented the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price to the conference, President Joseph F. Smith, the other counselor, said to the conference: "I move that we receive and accept the revelations contained in these books [Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price], as revelations from God to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and to all the world." ("Fiftieth Semi-annualConference," Millennial Star, Vol. 42 [Nov. 15, 1880], p. 724.) Class Discussion Discuss why it was important for the membership of the Church to accept these two books as scripture: 1. As related to Latter-day Saint belief in continuous revelation 2. As being basic to the restoration of the Church Lesson Department TRUTHS TO MAINTAIN AND DEFEND THE FAITH The ancient scriptures in the Pear] of Great Price are the Books of Moses and Abraham. The Book of Moses was received by revelation, using the Book of Genesis as the guideline. On this matter, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., sald: The Prophet Joseph Smith began a revelatory revision of the Bible, but it was not finished, for which reason the Church has never adopted it as a whole. The parts we accept will be found in the Pearl of Great Price in the Book of Moses and the revision of the twentythird (last verse) and the twenty-fourth chapters of Matthew. (Church News, July 31, 1954, p. 9.) In June 1830, the Prophet Joseph recorded that the Lord "vouchsafed for us a supply of strength, and granted us 'line upon line of knowledge here a little and there a little,' of which the following was a_ precious morsel," and then there followed the first chapter of the Book of Moses, which was not in the Book of Genesis. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1957], Vol. 1, pp. 98-101 [commonly called Documentary History of The Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) It was while the Prophet, with the assistance of Sidney Rigdon, was "translating" or revising the Book of Genesis that the Lord revealed chapters 2 through 8 of the Book of Moses (chapters 6:45-68, and 7, being an "Extract from the Prophecy of Enoch''). The Book of Abraham, the second ancient scripture of 541 July 1970 the Pearl of Great Price, came to the Prophet in an unusual way. Four Egyptian mummies and two rolls of papyrus were sold to the saints in July 1835, by Michael H. Chandler. When the Prophet translated the _hieroglyphics on the papyri, he discovered that they were the writings of Abraham _ and Joseph, who was sold into Egypt. (DHC, Vol. 2, pp. 235-36.) The Book of Abraham is the translation of the writings of Abraham. Having _ translated the plates of the Book of Mormon, written in reformed Egyptian, the Prophet was familiar with Egyptian hieroglyphics. On Monday, November 27, 1967, in a special ceremony at the New York Metropolitan Museum of Art, eleven papyrus pieces once owned by the Prophet Joseph Smith were presented to President N. Eldon Tanner of the First Presidency. (Church News, December 2, 1967, p. 7; Improvement Era, January 1968, p. 12.) The appearance of this material 132 years after it came into the possession of the Prophet was acclaimed by Latterday Saints as important evidence that the Prophet had Egyptian papyri which he translated as the Book of Abraham. The best information available to the Church for almost one hundred years was that the papyri and the mummies were destroyed in the Chicago fire of 1871. (Improvement Era, January 1968, p. 12.) The recovered papyri are only portions of the material possessed by the Prophet. The wellpreserved Facsimile No. 1 of the Book of Abraham is part of the collection. 542 From these ancient scriptures precious truths only alluded to in the Bible are revealed in greater clarity while truths not mentioned in Holy Writ are made known. TRUTHS ALLUDED TO Important contributions elaborated upon in these ancient scriptures and mentioned in the Bible are: (1) the premortal existence of the spirits of men, (2) the antiquity of the gospel of Jesus Christ, (3) the creation of man and other forms of life, and (4) a miscellaneous number of truths. These subjects will form the basis of future lessons in this course. To mention only a few truths not found in the Bible will be sufficient for the purpose of this lesson: (1) the temptation of Moses by Satan. (Moses 1:12-23.) (2) The name Jesus Christ and the expression "mine Only Begotten" (Moses 1:16-17; 4:28, 6:57) are not found in the Old Testament. In other words, the Old Testament, in_ its present form, does not identify the New Testament Savior Jesus Christ as God who gave revelation to the Old Testament prophets. (3) The vision of the beginning of the world to the end received by Enoch. (Moses 6:58-66; 7:1-69.) There are many facts mentioned in the Pearl of Great Price which give greater understanding of the period of the patriarchs and of Moses than does the information in the Bible as it has come down to us. To mention only a few: (1) There were written records from the beginning. (Moses 6:5, 46.) (2) Adam and Eve had other sons and daughters besides Cain and Abel, which explains where Cain got his wife. (Compare Gen. 4:1-2, 16-17; with Moses 5:2-3, 16-17, 28.) (3) The earth as the mother of men is a living organism, yet inanimate to man. (Moses 7: 48-49.) (4) A clarification of the expression "sons of God" as distinguished from "daughters of men." (Compare Gen. 6:1-2 with Moses 8:13-14.) (5) The Lord did not repent that he had made man, but Noah repented that God had created man. (Compare Gen. 6:6; Moses 8:25.) There is a consistency and harmony of truth found in the modern standard works of the Church compared with the Bible which bear evidence to the fact that Joseph Smith was blessed with revelation from a divine source. In _ fact, the three modern book' of scripture are witnesses to the validity of the Bible. Class Discussion Name and discuss one of the teachings not in the Bible but revealed in the Pearl of Great Price that impresses you. PREMORTAL EXISTENCE OF LIVING CREATURES Put yourself in the place of the nonmember acquainted with the teachings of the Bible and think how you would like to know the full meaning of such passages as the following: Then the word of the Lord came unto me, Saying, Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee; and before thou camest Lesson Department forth out of the womb I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. (Jer. 1:4-5.) Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessings in heavenly places_ in Christ: According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world. (Eph. 1:3-4.) Where wast thou when I laid the foundations. Of the earth? Declare, if thou hast understanding. When the morning stars. Sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy? (Job 38:4, 7.) The fact that men and other forms of life existed before this life is clearly indicated in the Pearl of Great Price. (Moses 3:4-5; Abr. 3:22-28.) THE ANTIQUITY OF THE GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST The idea that the gospel of Jesus Christ was known from the days of Adam to the days of Christ is not a part of the common "Christian" creed. New Testament writers, however, indicate that baptism and_= salvation through Christ were known to Old Testament prophets. (Gal. 3:8, 16, 17, 19, 24-26; (1 Cor. 10:2.) These truths were known to the patriarchs and to Moses. (Moses 5:9-12, 58-59; 6:58-66.) THE DIVINE MISSION OF JOSEPH SMITH Joseph Smith received the Lord's appointment as _ his Prophet to open the last dispensation of the gospel. (D&C 1: 17.) By revelation Moses knew that there would be one who would be like him in the last days to restore religious truths. And in a day when the children of men shall esteem my words as naught and take many of them from the book 543 July 1970 which thou shalt write, behold, I will raise up another like unto thee; and they shall be had again among the children of men among as many as shall believe. (Moses 1:41.) That the Bible would be changed and many important truths lost to the world was also known to Nephi centuries before Jesus' birth. (1 Ne..13:23-29; 21:1.) The function of a prophet is to receive the word of the Lord and to. Make it known to the people that they may be led in paths of righteousness. When inspired by the Holy Ghost a prophet's words become scripture. (D&C 68:2-4.) When one considers that Joseph Smith was the means of restoring the Book of Mormon, receiving' the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price, the number of pages of inspired truth which were given us through him outranks those of any other prophet of record. It was foreordained that he should be the restorer of scripture and also reveal scripture for the salvation of men. (2 Ne. 3:6-11, 14-15.) Another function of a prophet is to testify to revelation received by other prophets, for by the Spirit he may know of the truth of former revelations. The Lord said that in a day when the "Christian" religious world would lose faith in the Bible as the word of God, when the Bible's authenticity would be attacked by those who should be its supporters, creating distrust in its message and even in the divinity of Jesus Christ, the Lord would vindicate his prophets of old 544 through his modern Prophet. So he did through Joseph Smith. Class Discussion Viewing the contents of the Pearl of Great Price as one of Joseph Smith's contributions, how does it attest to the mission of Joseph Smith as a prophet? A PROPHECY Elder Franklin D. Richards in his Preface to the first edition of the Pearl of Great Price (deleted in later editions) prophesied that the day would come when Joseph Smith would be known in the world as one of the greatest men who ever lived, and the day would come when the world would recognize him as a prophet of God. The Lord prepared the Prophet for his calling in the eternal worlds before this earth was created. It was known to Isaiah that there would be a "not learned" person who would recelve an ancient book from the dust of the earth that would contain doctrine and increase faith in Jesus Christ. (Isa. 29:12, 24.) That book is the Book of Mormon. Furthermore, Nephi knew that Joseph Smith would be a great seer, even a choice seer, who in the last days would do the _Lord's work and thus perform a work of salvation for men. (2 Ne. 3:6-15.) The impress of his work would be felt among all men, even to the extent that in the millenium the peoples of the earth would come to accept that work. (D&C 1:17-23; 84: 96-102.) Millions had already heard his name, others have accepted him as a Prophet and have had the desire to let many others receive the same blessing. (D&C 103:5-7.) To him was given the promise that the "ends of the earth shall inquire after thy name," and that the priesthood would remain with him forever. (D&C 122:1, 9.) Except for Jesus Christ, no man who has ever lived has done as much for the salvation of men in this world as did the Prophet Joseph Smith. (D&C 135:3.) By the testimony of the Holy Ghost, President Joseph F. Smith said, and many others could say with him: Joseph Smith is a prophet of God  living, not dead; for his name will never perish. The angel that visited him and declared God's message unto him, told. Him that his name should be held for Lesson Department good and evil throughout the world from the day it was spoken until this moment, and from now on until the winding-up scene, the name of Joseph Smith, the prophet of the nineteenth century, has been, is being, and will be heralded abroad to the nations of the earth, and will be held in honor or contempt by the people of the world. But the honor in which it is now held by a few will by and by be increased that his name shall be held in reverence and honor among the children of men as universally as the name of the Son of God is held today; for he did and is doing the work of the Master. (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine [4th ed.; Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1919] p. 606.) Class Discussion Why do you believe that the prophecy concerning Joseph Smith will be fulfilled? VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71) Message 1 Truth and Free Agency Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1971 OBJECTIVE: Obedience to the Lord's principles will bring a divine fulfillment in an individual's life. He was free, incredibly and wonderfully free. Free to live his own life, be himself, and to find out his true identity. No restraints, no one to tell him what to do. He was his own boss. And dad had been very decent about giving him money. Oh, he was truly free. The big city, far from home, was exciting with its endless possibilities. Quickly he found many friends, his kind of people  young, adventuresome, always trying out new ideas, embracing first this one and then. That. There was no limit to what they would not try. In this heady 545 July 1970 world of new values, he began to see how much his family missed by sticking to old-fashioned ideas of morality, such as the denial of free love. All the forbidden things that troubled them were not really bad. Just some old Puritan notions. Drinking was fun, drugs were fun, gambling was fun. It was true that his money seemed to be going fast, but he did not need to worry. It was one for all and all for one; everyone was his friend. It became a very pleasant life. One day, however, the money was gone. Economic want stalked, not only his life, but the area in which he lived. His friends suddenly were out when he called. Those who did take him in were starving as he was. He began to look around him at what "freedom" had brought to him and his friends. When the fun was over, there were the diseased whose lives would be forever marred by sickness. There were children unwanted and neglected. There were those prematurely old, their thinking evil, their lives full of poverty and neglect. Worse, they loved evil, exploiting and preying upon their fellowmen. Gradually he became aware that no one really cared about or for him. When he did find someone to love, affection lasted only briefly and then went out like a tiny flame in the wind. One day he could stand it no longer. He went into the countryside and hired out as a day laborer, but wages were low, and he was hungry all the time. He began to see that freedom was far different than he had imagined it to be. He had tried to find himself; instead, he had 546 become lost. Today many prodigals are as beguiled by the philosophy and enticing face of evil as was the prodigal son of whom Jesus spoke. (Luke 15:11-32.) How are we helping our children and ourselves to avoid mistakes and "lost"? Years from which for some there will be no return? How are we aiding them to understand the way of truth and freedom? Jesus pointed the way, "If ye continue in my word. Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." (John 8:31-32. Italics added.) Man is free to choose, but he must choose God's way or he will not find true freedom. The principles of righteousness are the same today as in the days of Jesus. Freedom is indeed wonderful. President David O. McKay said, Next to the bestowal of life itself, the right to direct that life is God's greatest gift to man Free agency is the impelling source of the soul's progress. It is the purpose of the Lord that man _ become like Him. In order for man to achieve' this it was necessary for the Creator first to make him free. ("Free Agency and Its Implications," Church Section, Deseret News, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 16, 1950, p. 4.) The Lord has said "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." (Luke 11:9.) One must have the faith to act on this promise. Often children and adults reject the way of the Lord because they do not see that the gospel principles were designed to help them in the real world. From the time the child is young we should take the time, the hours necessary, to listen to what is troubling him and help him to understand the application of these principles. We must constantly show an increase of love so that his trust in us grows. (D&C 121:43.) Through such trust we can lead him to understand why the Lord has set limits, why growth entails self-discipline and great effort, and how the Lord is fair, just, and reasonable in his counsel. Lesson Department By prayer, study, and righteous living we use our free agency according to God's plan. The "freedom" from _ responsibility sought by the prodigal son is enslavement. The freedom God intended for his sons' and daughters is light and truth, "for," as Paul says, "the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me free from the law of sin and death." (Rom. 8:2.) HOMEMAKING A Lovelier You Discussion 1 You Owe It to Yourself to Become a Lovelier You "|.. Yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples!" (D&C 93:35.) Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, March 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help each woman accept her responsibility in taking care of her outward appearance. INTRODUCTION To Latter-day Saints, temples are not only havens of spirituality, but supreme examples of all that is lovely and beautiful on this earth. Our bodies are often called "tabernacles of the spirit." ".. Yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples..." (D&C 93:35.) To think of our bodies as temples, therefore, commits us to the task of treating them as temples. A beautiful woman is a woman who emulates her divinity and remembers that, as in our temples of God, cleanliness and modesty are first considerations. A woman who treats her body as a temple is grateful to her Father in heaven for the loveliness of her hair, her special coloring, her features, her skin, and her vitality. Brigham Young admonished the women to make themselves beautiful. Let the sisters take care of themselves, and make themselves beautiful, and if any of you are so superstitious and ignorant as to say that this is pride, I 547 Lord, Y as to the excellency of the heavens, an of the beauty ch dwells in the society 9  the Gods Were you to see an angel, you would 's  peautiful and lovely creature ke yourselves like angels in goodne and beauty. Let the mothers proper ale Discourses of Brigham Young, ComP: John A. Widtsoe [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1966}, pp- 215-16.) MOTHERS SET THE EXAMPLE "Tf there lS anything virtuous, lovely, OF of, praiseworthy, we seek after these things." (13th Article of Faith) As mothers; we must ever keep more guidance, ma seriousness set for our children. Is our to their grooming, pr ourself. Would you have your children practice in the food they eat? Then you as the must refrain ff her own clothes, "Am I dressing qualities of can a mother's appearance ds in the home? To be neat and clean dressed at home for we do for our friends? 5. De we take care in being tastefully dressed when we attend a special function want to feel difficult 10 our society to refrain from artificiality. Modern advertising tells must look good, taste good, smell good. The desire to cling to through dress which is false and iv] establishes a dishonest example for our young appearance should be one of dignity which accepts the added years with grace and pride. Discussion Question When high standards of dress seem to crumble about us, do we maintain our level-headedness and use good judgment in our own choice of clothes? Lesson Department CONCLUSION A woman is often judged by her appearance. First impressions are important. A woman needs to accept the responsibility of maintaining a pleasing outward appearance for herself as well as for others. SOCIAL RELATIONS Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 1 Morality and the Individual Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1971 OBJECTIVE: To show how an understanding of morality makes for an enlightened regard for the individual in our social relationships. WHAT IS MORALITY? Most of us think that morality is the same as chastity. With a little more thought, we might add the idea of honesty, obedience to law, or dealing justly. But important as these concepts are, they are not the whole of morality. Basically, morality is the love of what is right and good. We are moral to the extent that we show that love in our treatment of other people. THE IMPORTANCE OF PEOPLE A moral person has the proper regard for the individual. To be moral is to value human life. The scriptures teach that "the worth of souls is great in the sight of God." (D&C 18:10.) At the Creation God had such high regard for man that he "crowned him with glory and honour" and gave him "dominion over the works" (Ps. 8:5-6) of his hands. Christ's teachings are filled with examples of his regard for people of all ethnic and national origins, poor and rich people, sick people and well people. His regard for people is the essence of his gospel. Eternal life, "the greatest of all the gifts of God" (D&C 14:7), is the prize he would have all his children win. Those winning this prize are to share with Christ all the Father has. Recent space explorations have excited the imagination of the world regarding man's accomplishments and possibilities. In the ways of the world they tell us about the importance of man and represent a "giant leap" 549 July 1970 forward for the mind and spirit of mankind. For example, man need not accept blindly and on faith that the earth is a special place of habitation. The moon walkers have made it clear that the earth is a diadem and with its spectrum of light and color a most inviting planet, especially when viewed by space travelers from the emptiness and blackness of space. The moon may "rule the night" (Gen. 1:16), but man walked and lived on the moon for several hours only because the earth had equipped him to live there. The earth which was created with "plenty and to spare," provided the air, the water, and the food. The act of creation itself (recorded in the first chapter of Genesis), the world as it is being rediscovered from space, and the fact that God trusted man sufficiently to give him "dominion... Over every living thing" and the responsibility to "replenish the earth" as he used its resources (Gen. 1:28) lend credence to the importance of man in the plan of God, and reaffirm what the faithful have always known about the worth and value of human personality. Hopefully, such secular events as space exploration will help man to realize his genius and the importance God attaches to the work of man, the "pearl" of his creation. Question for Discussion Inasmuch as we believe in the importance and worth of people, why is it so difficult to accept them as they are? INDIVIDUALITY To value people truly and to hold them in esteem to cherish 550 them for what they are it is necessary to recognize and accept differences as well as likenesses. It is sometimes more comfortable to work, play, and otherwise associate only with those who look, feel, think, and act as we do. We sometimes criticize, judge, find fault, and even condemn those who are different from ourselves. This is not moral conduct, for the Lord enjoins us to "judge not, that ye be not judged." (Matt. 7:1.) The Lord judges people according to their mghteousness, not according to their superficial characteristics. When the Prophet Samuel chose the boy David above his older brothers to be anointed king of Israel, the Lord said, "Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature... For the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart." (1 Sam. 16:7.) Only the Lord can look in a man's heart; only the Lord can judge him truly. Therefore, we are warned, "I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men." (D&C 64:10.) The Lord may choose an individual or a people to help carry out his purposes in the earth, but all his countless and infinitely varied children are alike to him in their claim upon his love, "and he inviteth them all to come unto him and partake of his goodness; and he denieth none that come unto him, black and white, bond and free, male and female; and he remembereth the heathen; and all are alike unto God, both Jew and Gentile." (2 Ne. 26:33.) But God does not expect his children to be "alike" in the sense that they must all be the same. We should expect people to be different, if we accept the principle of free agency. Among the three and a half billion people living on earth today, no two are the same. Not even identical twins are identical. Each person has his own body structure, physiology, chemistry, and ways of behaving. Differences so vast that they almost defy description help to explain such everyday puzzles as why one child eats heartily and another picks at his food, or why members of the ward have such different ideas about the architecture for a new chapel. To be specific, the nervous system, closely connected with personality, is subject to variations. Investigations, which admittedly are not complete, show that "warm spots," "cold spots," and "pain spots" on the skin are different for each individual. In a recent study, the distribution of pain spots for twenty-one healthy young adults was shown to have a high degree of variation. Under controlled test conditions the right hand of one young man A tested in a particular area  was found to be "highly sensitive over a seven percent area, while a second person B showed 100 percent "highly sensitive" areas. On A's hand 49 percent of the area was free of pain. (Roger J. Williams, "The Biological Approach to the Study of Personality," Theories of Psychopathology, ed. Theodore Milton [Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Co., 1967], pp. 23-24.) This simple difference of Lesson Department sensitivity to pain may explain why some _ highly _ sensitive mothers overprotect their children, while others, less sensitive, may be indifferent to minor injuries to their children. Mothers may mistakenly believe that their children feel or fail to feel pain as they do. Studies of personality yield even wider variations among individuals. No two people react to stress in the same manner. Some appear to thrive on daily crises, while others confronted with these same crises become ill. Differences within the same family are well known. One child accepts responsibility easily and anticipates new challenges with pleasure. Avoidance of responsibility may be the typical reaction of another child in the same family. Family home evenings can be a source of satisfaction to some families because of the enthusiasm and preparations of a particular child who loves this part of the Church program. Question for Discussion Why is an individual enhanced in your eyes by knowing some special quality about him a talent, ability, skill, hope, ambition, or desire for his family or friends, for example? Differences among _ people surely add to the interest, richness, beauty, and challenges of life. These differences can also pose very serious problems unless we learn to recognize and understand them. We need to accept differences and to affirm individuality. Few disasters are more tragic than those that result when a parent has a _ preconceived notion of what his child 551 lounge, Dr. Konopka read the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith, uttered on the occasion of the organization of the Relief Society: This is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads." After reading these words and with the experience of an hour with President Spafford just ended, Dr. Konopka stated that, in her extensive travels in America and Europe as she has been engaged in humanitarian service, this was the first time she had ever seen relief and beauty combined. In giving compassionate servIce, women of the Relief Society have an Opportunity to "reap blessings" as they cause the poor and needy "to rejoice." Social relations are a science as well as an art, and can be greatly enhanced by a true consideration for every human being, regardless of age, physical condition, or educational status. For service to be com passionate, the particular needs, wants, and aspirations of those served must ever be uppermost in the minds and hearts of those who would be the dispensers of service. An adult loses the respect of a child if he classifies that child along with other children. Neighbors, listening and hearing and being responsive to what they hear, promote neighborliness and improve the quality of life in the community. When the heavenly messengers appeared to Joseph Smith in the sacred 8rove, the name "Joseph" was spoken. God, the Father of us all, individualized the fourteenLesson Department year old boy. All men, women, and children like to be identified and mentioned by name whenever Possible regardless of their church affiliation, ethnic origin, or their economic level in society. They are responsive to those who individualize them and accept them as they are. A non-judgmental, accepting approach eases tension, particularly in work with people who have failed, either in their own or others' expectations of themselves, Criticizing these people for their failures by word or action only results in estrangement, closing the door to any further good work that might be accomplished. Criticism and censure create barriers to understanding and are likely to be autobiographical  revealing more about the critic than about his intended victim. The psychological illusion of righteousness, called self-righteousness, can be created by criticism, for in this way in our Own eyes we appear to be better followers that unless their righteousness exceeded that of the Scribes and Pharisees they would "in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven." (Matt. 5:20.) Individualization, acceptance, and a non-judgmental approach candomuch to facilitate and guide in everyday relationships. Pau] reminds us of the importance of charity, "which charity is love." (2 Ne. 26:30.) Question for Discussion In what way can compassionate service by members of the Relief Society 553 July 1970 be more fully realized by the concepts of individualization, acceptance, and a non-judgmental attitude? SUMMARY Morality is basically a warm regard for every human being. It delights in the miracle of creation and the infinite richness of society and people in all walks of life. The moral life truly makes sense to all people whose concern is to serve their fellowmen. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 1 A Family Reads and Sings Together Textbook: Out of the Best Books, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, March 1971 OBJECTIVE: To present selections that can enrich family discussions, provide wholesome entertainment, and strengthen family relationships. MUSIC COMMENTARY The following musical selections are suggested to correlate with the objective of lesson 1. We encourage class leaders to consult with their respective choristers and organists as to the preparation and presentation of them. Title Composers Homing Salmon Del Riego 3013 SSA There Is Beauty All Around Hymns, no. 383 'Mid Pleasures and Palaces Hymns, no. 185 Payne Bishop As indicated earlier in the preview of lessons for 1970-71, the lessons during the coming year will draw upon selections and discussions already printed in the five volumes of Out of the Best Books published during the past six years. It is felt that there are so many excellent se- 554 Publisher Chappel & Co., Inc. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints lections in these books far too many to have been fully covered by any Relief Society group  that another year of stimulating lessons might be developed using the books already in the hands of the Relief Society sisters. New approaches will, of course, be employed in reexamining these and joy unit. Correemphasis, two ement lessons CUS upon the first lesson will fo Lesson Department Many families have never disCovered the rewards and joy that come from reading together frequen tly little children caught July 1970 Books volumes is suitable for family reading and discussion. Some selections, however, seem especially stimulating for family enjoyment and discussion. Among these we particularly recommend the following: Short Stories: "Quality" by John Galsworthy, vol. 1, pp. 124-31 "The Bear' by William Faulkner, vol. 1, pp. 179-97 "The Portable Phonograph" by Walter Van Tilburg Clark, vol. 1, pp. 198-209 "A Christmas Carol" by Dickens, vol. 1, pp. 246-74 "The Happy Prince' by Oscar Wilde, vol. 1, pp. 352-60 "My Little Boy" by Carl Ewald, vol. 2, pp. 8-23 "The Leader of the People' by John Steinbeck, vol. 2, pp. 166-82 "Jacob and the Indians" by Stephen Vincent Ben t, vol. 3, pp. 262-75 "Ordeal by Handcart" by Wallace Stegner, vol. 4, 60-65 "Early Marriage' by Conrad Richter, vol. 4, pp. 121-34 "Learning the River" by Mark Twain, vol. 4, pp. 194-208 "Cipher in the Snow" by Jean E. Mizer, vol. 5, pp. 39-41 "Another April" by Jesse Stuart, vol. 5, pp. 79-86 "The Devil and Daniel Webster" by Stephen Vincent Ben t, vol. 5, pp. 134-47 "Baker's Blue-Jay Yarn" by Mark Twain, vol. 5, pp. 160-65 "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty" by James Thurber, vol. 5, pp. 236-41 Charles Poems: "The Lamb" and "The Tiger' by William Blake, vol. 1, pp. 91-92 and 285-86 "Little Jesus" by Francis Thompson, vol. 1, pp. 94-95 "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" by Samuel Taylor Coleridge, vol. 1, pp. 304-28 "The Death of the Hired Man" by Robert Frost, vol. 2, pp. 183-89 556 "Richard Cory" by Edwin Arlington Robinson, vol. 3, pp. 77-79 "I Like to See It Lap the Miles" by Emily Dickinson, vol. 4, p. 7 "A Bird Came Down the Walk" by Emily Dickinson, vol. 4, pp. 7-8 "Talk" by John Holmes, vol. 4, pp. 209-12 "The Fish, the Man, and the Spirit" by Leigh Hunt, vol. 5, pp. 68-69 "After Apple-Picking" by Frost, vol. 5, pp. 226-28 "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening" by Robert Frost, vol. 5, pp. 266-67 (Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas, Out of the Best Books, vols. 1-5, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1964-69.) Note: Comments and discussions of the above selections will be found in the text. Robert Other selections in the five volumes are also valuable for family reading, especially to focus upon special problems or needs. For example, if a family has teen-age drivers who are not driving as carefully as_ they should, an unforgettable lesson in highway carefulness will result from reading together Karl Shapiro's powerful little poem "Auto Wreck" at the end of volume one. However, the stories and poems in the two lists above seem especially appropriate for almost all family groups. Most children are responsive at much younger ages than adults may realize. Children love literature, both the fascination of stories and the enchantment of the rhythms, rhymes, and imagery of poetry. Few things that a parent can do for a child will be more valuable throughout his life than helping him develop and maintain a love for reading. Beyond the selections in these five volumes, libraries offer other Buy an All Grain Stone Grinding Flour Mill Today Immediate Delivery Also available: High protein wheat for use or storage. For full information, write: & " ALL-GRAIN = FLOUR MILL Dept. R. S. P. O. Box 115 Tremonton, Utah 84337 Openings available for full or part-time sales representatives.   With a TUTTI-FRUTTI juicer it can be a lot of fun. PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS 16 and 23 Days Leaves July 25 *K CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR August 17-30 K HAWAII ALOHA TOUR October 8-21 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Does fruit season get you down? Please your family with delicious drinks all year. Create your own special jellies and fruit syrups   all with a minimum of effort. Greta Ashdown (Tutti-Frutti Headqu.) 612 E. Pheasant Way Bountiful, Utah Phone: 295-1005 Rex Ashdown 769 W. 3650 No. Ogden, Utah Phone 782-7305 Fred and Jean Peacock 3294 W. 3650 So. Granger, Utah Phone 299-1646 Arlene Cooper Box 82, Rt. 1 Idaho Falls, Idaho Phone 523-0399 Velva McBride (Health Ways) 430 Main Ave. So. Twin Falls, Idaho Phone 734-2301 Juicers available in aluminum or stainless steel. 557 July 1970 selections that are equally rewarding. Let us mention just a few books that families might share through hours of pleasant reading together. First and foremost are the scriptures and the writings of our modern prophets, which we should all learn to love for the beauty and truths in them, and which should be part of the daily: reading of all members of the Church. Then, there are classics such as the Iliad and the Odyssey, fascinating works from centuries ago. Many people are afraid to read them, fearing that they will be dull or remote or too difficult. They are quite the opposite; the very reason they are classics is that millions of readers, young and old, in many lands and languages, have been charmed by the excitement of the adventures they unfold. Mark Twain's Huckleberry Finn, a wonderful adventure story when we first read it as children, seems even better when we reread it as teen-agers, and continues to grow greater and deeper, and more thought-provoking when we return to it as adults. Almost everything Mark Twain wrote is delightful for family reading, but Huckleberry Finn is his masterpiece. Tom Sawyer is a wonderful children's book, but Huckleberry Finn is for readers of all ages. Or, if we want a shorter work that will capture the interest of the whole family, we can read together such a warm and emotionally appealing story as The Red Pony by John Steinbeck; or George Orwell's little novel Animal Farm, a brilliantly clever modern satire against communism; or Alan 558 WHEAT MILLS FOR YOUR STORAGE PROGRAM Corona' Grain Mill, model Ictsp for use with wheat, corn, nuts, etc. Easily adjusts for fine or coarse grinding. $11.75 postpaid west of Rockies. $12.75 postpaid east of Rockies. $14.95 postpaid to Canada. Utah residents add 53  tax. Extra plates for Corona mills $1.95 per set, postpaid. '*Special"' quantity prices to church groups. Home Size Stone Ground Flour Mills Grind your own flour! Better health. Free all-grain mill sold. Automatic Cherry Stoner, Only $8.95, postpaid, Other models available. Write now for more _ information.... Eat your way to Corona mill with every Send orders to: SMITHFIELD IMPLEMENT CO. 99 N. Main Smithfield, Utah 84335 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2...555 Zone5 ~.-_--.75 Zone3 _.-_--..60 Zone6 _.---.85 Zone4 __--.-.65 Zone7.~_-.-.- -95 Zone8.. - - -1.05 a 1600 Empire Road, Sait Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Paton's Cry the Beloved Country, a novel concerning modern South Africa, beautifully poetic with its emphasis on love as the solution to the complex problems of our modern world. If we are especially interested in teaching our children to love reading, we should be aware that they are perhaps not ready for the depths and heights and greatness of Shakespeare or Milton or Chaucer. Perhaps they are not ready for the rewarding complexities and difficulties of T. S. Eliot or Henry James or Joseph Conrad. But they can hardly resist the excitement of the novels of Charles Dickens or Robert Louis Stevenson or Sir Walter Scott, or the rhythmical delights of such poems as Browning's "Pied Piper of Hamelin" or Vachel Lindsay's "The Congo" or Edgar Allan Poe's "The Bells," and other poems. Young readers are still charmed by Lewis Carroll's children's classics of a century ago, Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass, which contain such enchanting poems as "Jabberwocky," or with such a modern children's favorite as the little novel Where the Red Fern Grows by Wilson. Rawls. High school readers are challenged by the stirring biographical portraits in the late President Kennedy's Profiles in Courage. Not all books are for all readers, but everyone should make reading a rich part of his life, and anyone who does will be forever richer in mind and spirit. Perhaps Emily Dickinson said it best in two of her poems: There is no frigate like a book To take us lands away, Lesson Department Nor any coursers like a page Of prancing poetry. This traverse may the poorest take Without oppress of toll; How frugal is the chariot That bears. A human soul! (From volume 4, p. 11.) He ate and drank the precious words, His spirit grew robust; He knew no more that he was poor, Nor that his frame was dust. He danced along the dingy days, And this bequest of wings Was but a book. What liberty A loosened spirit brings! (From volume 5, p. 70.) Class Discussion What specific benefits have you and your family enjoyed through reading experiences in the home? Are there values beyond those found in_ the reading itself? =< Happiness is otal plectric living UTAH POWER &. LIGHT CO. 559 99 98 96 95 94 93 92 560 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. Mrs. Elizabeth Rahing Regh Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Estella Cole Cordon Ogden, Utah Mrs. Altera Ericksen Larsen Logan, Utah Mrs. Nancy Smith Palmer Safford, Arizona Mrs. Kristina Sorenson Anderson Monroe, Utah Mrs. Martha Annice Hepworth Hayward American Fork, Utah Mrs. Rosa Bell Warner Lawson Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Mary Nelson Hoopes Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Adria Brough Muir Randolph, Utah Yakima, Washington Mrs. Emojean Dudley Jones Provo, Utah Mrs. Anna Christine Gulbransen Petersen Hyrum, Utah Mrs. Edith Stoddard West Point, Utah Mrs. Emma Nicholena Borg Young Helena, Montana Mrs. Emma Hawkeswood Hammon Clark Roy, Utah Mrs. Emma Baumgartener Hasler Midway, Utah Mrs. Julia Hurst Hawkins Lewiston, Utah Mrs. Johanna Antonia Ibel Holmes Ogden, Utah Mrs. Clara Rachel Slade Rollins Hutchinson Whittier, California 91 90 Mrs. Edna Ryerson Cox Hipshire Troutman Mrs. Janet Thwaites Purdy Salt Lake City, Utah Miss Jeane Hunter Salmon Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Johanna Nielsen Anderson Farmington, Utah Mrs. Florence Romaine Wahi Crandell Snowflake, Arizona Mrs. Maude Smith Griffin Ogden, Utah Mrs. Jeannette Quayle Humburg Montpelier, Idaho Mrs. Rosa Green Kennedy Randolph, Utah Mrs. Patty Orilla Sessions Hatch Scott Mann Lovell, Wyoming Mrs. Amy E. Loader Prince Murray, Utah Mrs. Sarah Ellen Vincent Anson Manila, Utah Mrs. Ida Emma Baker Condie Malad, Idaho Mrs. Emma Johnson Durnell Provo, Utah Mrs. Susannah Stephens Fowler Henefer, Utah Mrs. Lydia Gertrude Cook Fredrickson Roosevelt, Utah Mrs. Myrtle Grimes llwaco, Washington Mrs. Anna Christina Osell Horrocks Los Angeles, California Mrs. Hannah Jane McCleve Jackson Gilbert, Arizona Mrs. Elizabeth Green Thorpe Perry Ogden, Utah Miss Clarissa Raddon Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lydia Knudsen Rawson San Gabriel, California Mrs. Lillian Lestra Haws Cook Terry Bellflower, California ANNOUNCING NEW PAPERBACK EDITIONS from Deseret Book OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS The 1970-71 Cultural Refinement lessons will be based on selections from all five volumes of Out of the Best Books. These books contain selected reading from the world's greatest literature and each volume follows a particular theme. To meet the need Deseret Book will publish all five volumes in paperback editions. They will be the same in size and content as the earlier hardbound editions. The paperback editions will not be ready until August, but orders placed now will be filled in the sequence received. Individual copies priced as follows: Vol. 1 ''The Individual and Human Values'' $2.75 Vol. 2. ''Love, Marriage and the Family' err $2.25 Vol. 3. ''Intelligent Family Living'' $2.25 Vol. 4 ''The World Around Us'' $2.25 Vol. 5 "Community Responsibility' 000 $2.25 SAVE $1.25 Order All Five Volumes Just $10.50 A limited number of hardbound copies of volume 5 are still available at $3.25 each. ET ORDER FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 OR 777 So. Main, Town & Country, Orange, Calif. 92668 Please send me items circled: 123 4 5 Total cost $ vss This must include 25c handling and postage for the first book ordered and 15c for each additional book ordered in the same shipment. Also include 442% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax from California residents ordering from Orange. Paid by: OC check, C) money order, or C charge established account. Name Address City State Zip July 1970 RS. 

