
AUGUST, Vol 57 Number 8
The Reliet Society Magazine AUGUST 1970 The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: \lustrations: COLOR ME HOME Color me rose—dip deep in sunset. Cut sharp the cliffs that hold up the sky. Color my rim—roll in the cedars In walls of olive and deep shadowed green. Silver my bushes—wash clean and polish. Cluster my daisies with sun-setting gold. Color my gorges deeper than midnight— Color river with shadow and sun. Wash in the evening—blue veil the evening Float blue the canyons—the mauve-chiseled walls. Color me evening—blue down of evening. Blue velvet evening. For | Have>come home. 7 —Hazel Loomis Mount Christina, New Zealand Transparency by Three Lions Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Cliff Country Photograph by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 561 

We love The Relief Society Magazine. It has been a choice part of our training program
throughout our married life. My husband and I are eagerly awaiting the next issue.
He is the patriarch of the Whittier Stake, a convert of almost forty-nine years, a person
beloved by all who know him. Ina May Rollins Reinsch, Whittier, California
Thank you for the bound volume of The Relief Society Magazine for 1969. It arrived
safely and in excellent condition. It will take its place in our library beside the bound
volumes throughout the years. I a m constantly referring to the contents of the Magazines,
and am pleased to see our elders using them for references and inspirational thoughts.
Ardella A. Davey, Supervisor, Canadian Mission Relief Society,
Brampton, Ontario, Canada
I wish to express my appreciation to my friend Virginia Helms for sending me this
interesting, informative, and inspirational Magazine— The Relief Society Magazine.
Although I am not of your faith I enjoy all the articles, and particularly the poetry, and
especially the lessons. What a comfort in these days of need.
Geraldine Dennis, Montgomery, Alabama
I was just looking over the contents of the May Magazine when i I came across the
story "Whatever Will Become of Rory!" It just made me sit down and read it right
away. We have a son Rory who is nine years old, and the story, word for word, and
our son Rory are alike. The day the Magazine came the principal of the school had
just phoned to tell us Rory had been in some trouble. When we talked to him about
it he just said, "Mom, I really don't mean to get into trouble. It just happens." The
story made my husband and myself just laugh because we really felt the story had been
written about our Rory. Jolayne Hudson, Calgary, Alberta, Canada
I just had to write and tell you what a lovely issue the May Magazine is, and what a
thrill it was to find my little reminiscence "Whatever Happened to Singing?" a part
of it. I especially enjoyed Sister Pettit's article about her sweet mother ("A Beautiful
Journey," by Aline R. Pettit of the General Board of Relief Society), and the article
"Children Grow Up With Poetry," by May C. Hammond has great cultural value for
use and reference in the home. Olga Milius, Granger, Utah
I was thrilled to read the article "A Beautiful Journey" in the May issue of The Relief
Society Magazine. I recall serving as a visiting teacher in the Las Flores (California)
Ward, where I well remember Sister Lydia Rawson's outstanding monthly message to
us. She and her family are an inspiration to me. Rita B. Crapo, Rexburg, Idaho
We really love The Relief Society Magazine. I even read special things to my husband
and children. It has so much instruction, entertainment, inspiration, beautiful pictures,
and poetry— all in one little Magazine that will fit in your purse.
Shirley A. Harvey, Barre, Vermont
I do enjoy the sensitive poetry from the sisters everywhere published in the Magazine,
besides its many other valuable features and its inspirational helps to me in my position
as one of the social relations teachers in our Brigham Young University Ward.
Lea Diane Seabury, Provo, Utah
I enjoy the Magazine so much and also my position as cultural refinement leader in
our ward. I often think I am learning more teaching cultural refinement than I did
in four years as an English major. judy Shell Busk, Long Beach, California
562


The Relief Society Magazine Volume 57 August 1970 Number 8 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford Business Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 564 Report—19th Plenary Conference of Internationa! Council of Women Belle S. Spafford 583 Keep the Magazines Sylvia Lundgren 584 Relief Society—Arctic Style Marva D. Beck 594 A Grateful Heart Marva Jeanne Kimball Pedersen Fiction 570 The Giving Edith Larson 596 The Suitcase Floy Daun Mackay 601 The Secret of Blueberry Hill—Chapter 2 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 562 From Near and Far 577 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 578 Editorial—The Mother and the Missionary Louise W. Madsen 580 Lucile P. Peterson Resigns From the General Board of Relief Society 581 Notes to the Field—The Relief Society Annual General Conference; Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet; Notice to Subscribers; Relief Society Literary Contests Discontinued 611 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 639 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 587 Treasure From Grandmother's Cupboard Grace Diane Jessen 588 A Rug for Long Wear and Easy Care Edythe K. Watson 590 Born Cooks Pearle M. Olsen 593 Hobby Features—Jane C. Edwards and Jutta O. Carr 595 Shall | Deem Her My Enemy? Cora Hill Arnold Lesson Department 619 Spiritual Living—The Doctrine of the Godhead 625 Visiting Teacher Message—Gratitude 626 Homemaking—Church Standards in Dress 628 Social Relations—God's Morality vs. Satan's Morality 633 Cultural Refinement—A Thankful Heart Poetry 561 Color Me Home, Hazel Loomis; 569 Old Photograph, Vesta N. Fairbairn; 569 On the Crest of a Cloud, Nona H. Brown; 576 ''And Know That | Am God,'' Celestia Rees; 581 My Pen, Margaret B. Jorgensen; 582 Housecleaning Time, Wanda B. Blaisdell; 583 Tall, Alda Larson Brown; 585 A Little Hand, Leah J. Leonard; 586 Small Sanctuary, Dorothy J. Roberts; 589 Reflection, Sandra Lundquist; 592 Earth's Renewal, Maxine R. Jennings; 595 His Father's Keys, Carolyn K. Dickson; 600 The Floweing, Iris W. Schow; 610 Regrets, Ruth G. Rothe; 632 Solace From a Book, Lila L. Smith. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.© 1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription price 25¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office Satt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 563  

A group of United States delegates and observers with President Belle S. Spafford (2nd from left) ad ry ay 3 =e at the Garden Party held at the Grand Palace, Bangkok, Thailand. Report XIX Plenary Conference of International Council of Women Belle S. Spafford @ Kighty-two years ago, upon invitation of the National Women's Suffrage Association, the Relief Society and the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association with the approval of the First Presidency sent delegates to a conference held in Washington D. C. In observance of the fortieth anniversary of the first public "Declaration of Independence" for women which demanded for them social, industrial, educational, and political rights. This Washington conference has been called "the greatest woman's conference ever held." There were seventy-seven women's organizations represented, with a number of distinguish- 564 ed women from foreign countries in attendance. The conference, primarily called to promote woman's suffrage, resulted in the founding of a National Council of Women of the United States to be made up of national women's organizations or organizations whose programs were of national significance, and the formation of an International council of Women to be made up of the national councils of the respective countries. The National Council of the United States was to meet biennially with annual meetings of its board. The International Council of Women was to meet triennially. The councils have survived the changes of almost a century and have proved themselves effective instruments in promoting human _ understanding and social well-being. Relief Society and the YWMIA became charter members of the National Council of Women of the United States, and the general boards of the two Mormon organizations have continued their membership through the years. By virtue of their membership in the National Council of Women of the United States, they have been affiliates of the International Council of Women. The XIX Plenary Conference of the International Council of Women was held at Bangkok, Thailand, early this year (1970). It was under the royal patronage of Her Majesty, Queen Sinkit. The National Council of Women of Thailand was, of course, the host council. The president, Jhunying Usna Pramaj, served as chairman of _ preparations, with Princess Prem Purackatra as advisor. The theme of the Conference was "Living Amid Change." Emphasis was on "Human Resources for Development"; the need to promote human abilities, attitudes, and qualities that would enable women to help in the attainment of fundamental human freedom and peace. The plenary and executive sessions were conducted by Mrs. Craig Schuller-McGeachy, ICW President, who declared that the object of ICW is "The enlightenment of women for the enhancement of Society." The Conference program listed fifty-nine affiliated councils. International Council of Women There were approximately 400 representatives in attendance. During the Conference, five new councils were admitted to membership: Madagascar, Morocco, the Ivory Coast, Botswana, and Nepal. The one representative from Nepal had walked a distance of thirty miles from her place of residence to the airport where she boarded the plane for Bangkok, so important did she regard affiliation with the ICW. On the whole the delegates were trained, experienced women. One writer referred to them as "ladies of professional distinction and proven capacity." They were deeply concerned with human life and human relationships. Throughout the Conference, I was impressed with the fact that human needs, as well as the aspirations and goals of the women of the various nations were very much the same. True, there were differences of opinion as to how best these could be achieved. Difference as to this were, in the main, due to the differing intensity of the problems within the respective nations, national traditions and culture, the degree of development of the country represented, and present national interests and determinations. The United States Council delegation of twenty women (there were two _ observers), which as President of the United States Council I was privileged to lead as chairman, performed extremely well. Each delegate was specially qualified to deal intelligently and effectively with matters under consideration in the section to which she was assigned. Yet competent, experi- 565 August 1970 enced, rational, and forwardlooking as were our delegates, they were restrained in speaking and at no time, in my opinion, could their actions have been interpreted as trying to dominate the Conference. Personally I was extremely proud to belong to the group. Originally fifteen sectional divisions were scheduled, corresponding to the standing committees. Later, some _ were combined. Discussions in these sectional meetings were based upon reports from international standing committees and _permanent representatives of ICW, and on reports of member councils. Sister Florence Jacobsen, President of the YWMIA, served as the NCW/US voting delegate in the very important section, "The Child and the Family." White space does not allow for a report of the discussions of each section, I would like to give a brief report of the section "The Child and the Family" which should be of special interest to Relief Society women, along with a brief report of the sections on "Media," "Films," "Radio and T. V.," and "Press" to which I was assigned and which have great influence on our family life and the attitudes and viewpoints of our children. This subject is under consideration for the fall conference of the United States Council of Women. Sister Jacobsen, in reporting the discussions of the section on the "Child and the Family," said: "We talked of problems from infancy to old age. Of foremost importance was a consideration of the child-parent relation- 566 ships—better and more comfortable communication between the two. It was the feeling of the women that greater responsibility rests with parents in improving and strengthening this relationship. "Employment of youth demanded attention. It was the opinion that one reason unrest is developing among the youth of the world is their excessive amount of leisure time and the lack of challenging employment. They want to work and be productively employed, the women maintained. It was the opinion, also, that youth would be strengthened if more involved in voluntary service programs. "There was lively discussion on drugs—their increasing use, abuse, and control, as well as a consideration of treatment for addicts. The Conference recommended more strict national and international drug laws, along with public education programs and the establishment of treatment centers as helpful solutions to the drug problems. "Sex education was also a topic of discussion. It was the general feeling that sex education belongs primarily in the homes with provision being made for training parents when and how to teach children in this sensitive area of child guidance. The Church and the school are supporting agents," Sister Jacobsen said, "but the spiritual element should remain with the home." Early in the Conference, decision was made to amalgamate the sections of Media, Films, Radio and Television, and Press, and to name the combined section "Mass Media." This was done The President of the National Council of Women of T International Council of Women ~ ty > - wel: 7. * hailand, Jnunying Usna Pramaj (left) is seated with Mrs. Craig Schuller-McGeachy, President of the ICW. The Thai Council was host to the XIX Plenary Conference of the International Council of because discussion revealed a recognition that while each has its own unique features, they are closely related in many ways and a consideration of any one usually leads to a discussion of one or more of the others. Reports of member organizations showed wide differences in the various countries regarding the development, use, and programming of the various forms of mass communication. For example, South Africa and Afghanistan have no TV; some countries have only black and white TV. Canada complained about the flow and impact of U. S. Films into Canada which they "do not necessarily like." The delegate said it was "like sleeping against an elephant. You can't move it and it keeps crowding over into your space." Legal regulations of the various forms of media were discussed, as were their values Women. And evils. They were seen as powerful educational forces which, if guided, might almost revolutionize educational procedures. The evils to which women object are violence, nudity, sex display, and vulgarity in films and other forms of media, along with the false image of woman, particularly in commercial advertising. There were twenty-two resolutions considered, of which twenty were adopted. Some had modifications in the original wording but the general intent was not greatly altered. An important resolution submitted by the U. S. And Canada, however, titled "Peaceful Resolution of Conflict-Peace-Making and Peace-Keeping" was considerably modified due to national interests of some of the countries represented. I didn't see how it could have been otherwise in view of existing conditions. 567 August 1970 The Queen Mother of Thailand greets a number of the United States delegation at the Royal garden party, at the Grand Palace, Bangkok, Thailand. At the left is ICW President, Mrs. Craig Schuller-McGeachy. The thoughtfulness and generous hospitality of the Thai women were evident from the moment we arrived until adieus were spoken. For example, Sister Jacobsen and I arrived near 2:00 A. M. To be met at the airport by two charming Thai women. The entertainment was superb. The Prime Miunister and _ his wife entertained at a reception at Government House; the Lord Mayor of Bangkok at a buffet dinner at Lumbini Park. The Thai Council was host at a Garden Party and Buffet at Nai Lort Park—a _ literal fairyland of lights, music, and dancing, with Western and Thai food attractively served in the garden. This evening was referred to as Thai Evening. By Royal Command, the delegates were entertained in the Garden of the Grand Palace, where they had the honor of shaking hands with the Queen Mother. Homes were also opened 568 to the delegates. The U. S. Ambassador to Thailand, The Honorable Leonard Unger and Mrs. Unger were extremely considerate of the U. S. Council, lending great help with our American Indian Exhibit (as was Pan American Air Lines). Ambassador and Mrs. Unger entertained at a reception in honor of the U. S. Delegation, followed by a dinner for selected guests. Other guests were invited to dinner parties given in beautiful private homes. Mrs. Unger attended a number of the meetings. The articles for the American Indian Exhibit. Represented the finest of our American Indian Culture. Articles were contributed by the Southwest Indian Mission, the Northern Indian Mission, Alaska, and individuals representing tribes throughout North America. Some items were donated through the YWMIA and a large portion through the Indian Relief Societies. A booklet accompanying the display, prepared by Sister Jacobsen of the YWMIA, was a unique and an authentic piece of work. A meeting of Council presidents, which was of special interest to me, led into a proposal that the purposes, organizational structure, and procedures of the ICW be studied and evaluated, including the frequency, plan, and length of the international conferences. Time did not allow for action on this. All in all, the Conference was International Council of Women a broadening experience, enlarging one's understanding of people of the different nations and increasing one's respect for them. The Conference is bound to be productive of good. It created in me a new sense of pride in the U. S. Council and the able women identified with it. I felt the two: Mormon organizations have much to offer organized women of the free world, and in turn, learn from them. Attendance at the Conference taught me, personally, the potency of restraint in leadership. OLD PHOTOGRAPH Beloved, though mine, those eyes, that smile, that face ~ Are alien to our eternity, our embrace. In a far-off season, a time forsaken, The reason forgotten, that picture was taken. Now, happiness-haloed, | am not the same, Am not the portrait in the bedside frame. For love makes eyes More deep and wise. —Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn ON THE CREST OF A CLOUD On the top of the hill is our dwelling place And the fog slithers in from the sea And it gathers the vanishing world outside In its mantle of mystery. As the ghost horses graze in the field below, On the highway beyond them play All the dim circled lights of the passing cars That are hidden in folds of gray, But we stay content in our little house, Like an island upon a cloud, And the children speak softly, as though the spell Would be broken if games were loud. —Nona H. Brown 569 @ Laura refused to let her mind dwell on the fact that in three days she would be alone in the big old house with the gingerbread porches. Instead, she kept her attention fixed on seven-year-old Teddy's sunbleached head bent over the words he was laboriously printing. He looked up, his freckles wrinkling with self-satisfaction. "I'm leaving you a_= surprise, Grandma" he said. "A surprise—for me?" Laura questioned. "It's so you won't miss me You will miss me, won't you?" he asked, suddenly fearful. Laura made a movement as if to hug him, and Teddy hastily covered his printing. "Don't peek. It's the surprise. Can you read my spelling?" "Shall I help you with the spelling?" "Yes, but " Teddy wanted the help, but he was reluctant to 570 ask any word that might -give away his big surprise. He finally settled for dear, grandma, your, loving and grandchild. Laura assured him that from these words she could have no idea of what he was planning for her. The letter took so long it was bedtime when Teddy stopped writing. Tomorrow his mother would come for two days of visiting before she bustled Teddy off home to school. It took the two days for Laura to convince her daughter that she could and would remain in the old home alone. Laura reminded her that she now had neighbors since the Newtons had moved into the long unoccupied, shack-like house across the road. Laura well knew the lonelliness she was facing. Even with Teddy there, she had had her lonely times after her husband Simon died in June. True, she was thankful for Simon's sake that the years of suffering were over, that he was with Heavenly Father where there is no more pain—but she missed him. They had been very close. And now she would miss Teddy also—active, happy-go-lucky Teddy, who could be so thoughtful and loving at the right time. The last morning of his stay, she rose determined to present a cheerful face. When they heard the school bus stop across the road, she joined Teddy on the porch to wave to the nine Newton children, shining in their new school clothes. As they solemnly filed into the bus, they looked just like any other group of children—and for that Laura felt a glow of satisfaction. "T wish I could go with them. It must be fun to take a school bus,"' sighed Teddy. "Mama and Daddy need you, Teddy. They lent you to me all summer. It's their turn now." "I know, but I can wish, can't | eed Yes, he could wish and Laura could wish, too. She could wish that Myrna lived nearer to her. She could wish that the Newtons were different than they were so that she could fill her life with their needs. But wishing would not change facts. When, at last, Myrna and Teddy were in the car ready to go, Laura had a momentary qualm. Perhaps she was wrong to cling to the old home. Then she straightened her shoulders and waved until they were out of sight. She would not falter. She had made her decision. She must learn to live with loneliness. She turned back into the house, now grown so strangely quiet. The Giving The scuff of her slippers on the hardwood floors set up a rhythm: Teddy is gone; Teddy is gone. Somehow her steps led her automatically to the sewing rocker by the south window, from which she had watched Teddy at play all summer. No, she mustn't sit there. The side lawn with its great spreading cottonwood and its sand box looked too empty in the brilliant September light and shadow. She had left the breakfast dishes on purpose, over Myrna's protests—left them so there would be something that needed doing to fill the emptiness. But even the kitchen seemed hushed this morning. The familiar hum of the frig and the tick of the ancient clock accented the quiet. Laura ran hot water into half the double sink. She was usually thankful that Myrna had insisted on her modernizing the kitchen when Simon became bedridden, but today she would have welcomed the old, time-consuming inconveniences. The kitchen, too, looked out on the side yard. In spite of herself, her eyes were drawn to the empty space where whirlwinds of activity had become so normal. Pictures from the long summer flashed before her eyes as she mechanically washed, rinsed, and dried the dishes, arranging them neatly below the counter. Bi first she saw Teddy playing there by himself and remembered how she had worried lest he become lonely here on the farm that was no longer a farm—no animals, no crops—just isolation. But Teddy seemed to have infinite resources for self-amusement. He 571 August 1970 carried on long conversations with his trucks, graders, and tractors. 7 Then she saw three children standing by the fence and watched Teddy as he drew them into his circle of influence, the instinctive host. They were the Newton triplets, part of the mountain family that had just moved down from the hills with ten of their eleven children. The triplets had changed the picture in the side yard, though Teddy's blond robustness dominated the three slim, dark figures that seemed to flow around him. Even his shorts and sleeveless shirts contrasted sharply with the ragged overalls and haphazard tops of Jerry, Terry, and Vi. It was three days before Laura realized that Vi was a girl. The sound augmented. War whoops and gun-fire, cheers and laughter brought the yard to life. And the sound diminished. Four heads came close together in solemn conclave. Teddy was being persuasive, the others just as obviously reluctant. Then, the quartet rose as one, and, Teddy leading, filed toward the house, each with a hand raised as if leading something. Of course—a horse! A knock at the back door. Laura hurried to open it. Teddy, straight-faced, swept an imaginary hat from his head and asked, "Could you spare a bite to eat, Ma'am, for us _ saddle-blistered cowpokes? We've come a long ways since we ate last, Ma'am." "But, of course! Just hitch your horses to the porch rail and come im." The horses were quickly disposed of, but at the door the 572 triplets balked in spite of Teddy's urging. "We're too dirty," said one. "We might track up that nice floor," said another. "Maw told us not to bother nice people," added the one that later turned out to be a girl. "It's no bother at all. Teddy always has milk and cookies at this time. He'd love to have you join him," invited Laura, her heart going out to these forlorn, undernourished-looking youngsters. Bana so the milk and cookies turned out to be sandwiches, too, spread thickly with peanut butter and jam, all of which the foursome devoured asrapidly as Laura could produce them, even while the triplets eyed the neat kitchen with its gleaming appliances. But the next day the triplets could not be induced to share Teddy's lunch. Laura felt her impatience mounting. The need was so obviously there and nothing made her feel better than fulfilling a need. She would call on the children's mother that very afternoon. In the old house across the road, she found a timid-appearing, work-bent woman who seemed embarrassed to have Laura call on her. "The house isn't settled yet," Mrs. Newton apologized, but Laura realized that no amount of settling could put the stuffing back in the davenport, make the round oak heater more attractive, or dress the ragged, barefoot children who hung curiously in the background. Never had Laura exerted herself more to put someone at ease. To some extent she was successful. She learned that the Newtons had always lived far back in the hills because Mr. Newton liked it that way. But now there were teenagers. Theoldestboy— Marine private Tom, home on his first furlough—had persuaded his father to let the mother and children come close enough to town so the school bus could transport them. They had attended a one-room school in the mountains only when weather permitted a ten-mile ride on mule back. The triplets had never been to school although they were Teddy's age. "I'm sure Teddy would love to help them catch up a little," Laura offered enthusiastically. Mrs. Newton's mouth set in a thin line. ''We don't need help," she stated.. Laura must have _ looked surprised for her hostess went on to explain: "Mr. Newton—he says living near town is all right if we don't get like the people that live off the government. We've never needed charity and we don't now." Laura hastened to explain that Teddy was lonely by himself, that he loved to play school, but how can one child play school alone? As a favor, wouldn't Mrs. Newton allow the triplets to join him even though school did always include a mid-morning snack? The idea of a snack at school intrigued all the children. Was it the custom in town schools? Laura explained about surplus milk, only to find that the government's part in the program was a stumbling block. However, it was finally agreed that the twins The Giving could snack with Teddy if Laura had chores for them to do to pay for the food. This deal set the pattern for that whole fantasticsummer. The Newton children were both shy and proud. Laura shuddered to think of the effect on them should they appear at school dressed as she grew accustomed to seeing them. She loved to sew. She could foresee the sewing needs of this one family filling all the vacant hours after Teddy went home. But her offers were turned down. She studied the problem and she prayed. How could she give the much-needed help without offense? Since Mrs. Newton didn't know how to sew, Laura was able to make dresses for the girls while giving the mother lessons. Laura learned a great deal during those lessons. She learned to love and admire the determined little woman, who carried her load so gallantly and so proudly. Belinda Newton might be timid about social contacts, but she never seemed to weary of work and was quick to learn. B33 ut she never took a lesson without paying for it. Laura was kept busy devising jobs. The boys cleaned out her shed and cut wood for her fireplace. The oldest ones painted the rail fence and restrung the grape arbor. The reciprocal help became so complicated that Laura often feared she was getting more than she gave, even though the sewing lessons branched out into other phases of homemaking. In August, Tom _ sent his mother a Japanese-made sewing 573 August 1970 machine from the PX. Laura had never seen anyone as happy as Belinda when she brought her girls over to show Laura the clothes she had made them for the first day of school. Even though the hems weren't quite straight and one dress was a little too long, Laura gave nothing but praise. When to keep still was one of the things this curious summer had taught her. Early in the summer, Laura had discussed the Newton case with Bishop Burns and Sister Johnson, the Relief Society president. However, even though the Newtons were Latter-day Saints, they refused all direct Church aid. They had been out of touch and no amount of talk about the Church Welfare Program made any impression on them. True, they didn't have clothes to go to Church in, but they were out of the habit of going anyway. The best the bishop could do was suggest that various members use the older Newton boys when they had to hire extra help. After one trial, the boys found many temporary jobs. And so Laura was _ pleased when, two weeks before school was to start, the boys and Belinda marched solemnly over to her house and asked advice in buying school clothes with their earnings. She remembered so vividly the quiet pride with which they had counted out the bills and coins. But her heart sank. What they had saved would do little more than buy shoes for the nine school children. She thought a moment. "The first thing," she finally suggested, "is to buy shoes. To fit everyone 574 perfectly, shoes must be new. For other things — pants, shirts, underwear, sox—if the money won't stretch for new ones, you can do what many of our members do—buy at the Relief Society rummage sale next week. Clothes are so expensive nowdays! And of course, the money helps the Relief Society. We are trying to build up our welfare fund. Some poor family will benefit by what you spend there." The Newtons decided they could wear second-hand things proudly if it benefited the poor. And they would count it a favor to be paid for in more split kindling if she went with them as a guide on their shopping expeditions. After buying the shoes, there was only $10.57 left for all the other needs. The rummage sale committee met the day before the sale to sort the donated items and get everything ready. Laura spent her time sorting out things that would fit the Newton children and putting them where they could be easily found. "The next morning she drove her neighbors to the sale early. She had volunteered to open up. By the time anyone else appeared, the Newtons were happily loading Laura's car with enough clothes to see them comfortably through the first weeks of school. The cost, by Laura's careful computation, was exactly $10.50. She lost one battle though. Since she was working at the sale that day, the Newtons refused a ride home. Six miles wasn't far to walk. If she would bring the clothes, that was favor enough. Yes, it had been a full and wonderful summer. And there might still be things the Newtons would let her do for them. She wanted to get all of them active in Church. She and Teddy had made a small start in this direction, yet even as she warmed to this thought, she knew the Newton wall of pride would never really break open for an outsider like her. But thinking back over the summer was no way to spend the rest of her day—her long, empty day. With forced cheerfulness Laura went through the morning ritual—making beds, sweeping, dusting. She even picked fresh flowers and arranged them in the dining room. The glads were so lovely. It was only noon. She ate because this was one of the things Myrna had fretted about. She did up the few dishes. Now what to do? She would look for Teddy's surprise. It was strange she hadn't already run across the letter he had written. | But no amount of looking produced Teddy's note. She began searching in_ unlikely places and came across a box of pictures she and Simon had taken in Hawaii during one of their rare holidays. She became so absorbed in the memories they evoked she didn't look out when she heard the school bus stop. She had just put the box away when, a quarter of an hour later, the doorbell rang. There on the doorstep stood the triplets, still in their school clothes. Their smiles were friendly, yet somehow fearful. Jerry was in the lead, holding out an envelope; Terry carried a _ tightly The Giving clutched bouquet of daisies; and Vi held her arms out stiffly to support a board on which rested a cloth-draped loaf of bread. Laura smiled. "Please come in," she invited, holding the door open wide. "I'm so glad to see you." The children didn't budge. Jerry extended the envelope Ne / | "For me?" Laura asked, and took it. The only word on it was Grandma in Teddy's uncertain printing. The surprise! How clever of him to have it delivered! "Thank you," she said, and then as the children just stood there, she repeated, "Won't you come in?" No one moved. What was she supposed to do? 575 August 1970 "Can't you read it?" Vi asked, and to Laura's surprise she saw that the child was close to tears. "Oh, of course. How stupid of me!"" How could she tell them she wanted to treasure Teddy's first letter in private? Laura tore open the envelope and pulled out the printed message that wandered crookedly down the page. Dear Grandma I no you will mis me I am giving you 3 grandchild to take my plas but don forget me pleez your loving granchild Teddy ps they can play with my toys Tears welled up unbidden. Dear, dear Teddy, but then Laura saw that the smiles were gone and only the fear remained on the three faces before her. Downing her own emotion, she smiled warmly at the triplets. "Three grandchildren! How wonderful! But now you really must come in. I can't have my grandchildren standing outside the door." Shyly but happily they edged into the house. Vi, bringing up the rear, said, "Maw sent you a loaf of her bread so we can stay to supper if you ask us." She hesitated and then added softly, "Grandma." Laura hugged her. "Of course, you're going to stay for supper. And it was so thoughtful of your mother to remember that I never bake bread when I'm alone. The toys are right where you put them. Why don't you all play in the sandbox till our supper's ready?" As she prepared the sort of meal that Teddy loved, Laura looked out the window at the no-longer-empty yard with a heart full of gratitude—gratitude for her seven-year-old grandson and for a neighbor who knew when not to be too proud. "AND KNOW THAT! AM GOD" '"'Be still, and know that | am God."' A bird cannot be heard! The clamoring soul Is deaf with loud disclaim "You are not fair!'' "You hurt my heart!" "You drove the shaft of hatred in!'' Be still. In depth of spirit thought the whisper comes To spirit ears; In strength it moves, in love. The silken cord, Silent, unseen, Eternal, Stronger than the bonds of death. Be still, and know that | am God. 576 —Celestia Rees Jessie Evans Smith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was Signally honored with the presentation of a bronze medal at a meeting of six hundred music directors at the annual conference of the Mutual Improvement Association of the Church in June. The award was given: to Mrs. Smith for her 'Service to Youth" and for her outstanding musical gifts and especially for her 'singing joyfully." At the meeting the President and Mrs. Smith sang a duet. In the Arts Section of the Salt Lake Tribune for June 28th, Mrs. Smith was featured in a special illustrated article portraying her many artistic gifts and describing her "exceptionally rich and beautiful contralto voice and her singing with the Tabernacle Choir since 1918." LaVern W. Parmley, President of the Primary Association of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was named ''Woman of the Year," by La Sertoma International, a woman's international service organization. The announcement was made at the La Sertoma annual convention in Chicago in June. Mrs. Parmley was cited for "humanitarian service to mankind, not only in her community, state and nation, but in the world."' She has been Primary president since 1951, and is the only woman to serve on national Boy Scouts of America committees, and was named a member of the National Religious Relationships Committee of the Boy Scouts in 1968, and was also named a member of the General Scouting Com. Mittee of the LDS Church. Turi Wideroe, an attractive thirty-twoyear-old Norwegian, is the first woman pilot for a major commercial airline in the western world.: Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. J.- Willard (Alice) Marriott, vice. President and director of Mariott's Hot Shoppes, and a member of the Board of the National Ballet Society of Washington D. C. Has been appointed by President -Nixon, Chairman of the John F. Kennedy Center of Performing Arts. The committee will advise the Center's Board of Trustees on cultural. Activities. Mrs. Marriott, a former Utahn living in Washington D. C. Is an active Latter-day Saint and has held many prominent roles in political and Civic -affairs both in Washington and nationally. Mrs.: Paul A. (Lorna) Clayton, an active Relief Society worker of Salt Lake City, has been appointed by President Richard M. Nixon to the Board of Directors of the John F. Kennedy Performing Arts Center in Washington, D. C. Unusually well qualified, Mrs. Clayton was, ten years ago, a member of the organizing board of the Utah Branch of Young Audiences, Incorporated; two years ago a national board member,: assigned to Utah; and as of September first, she will be a member of the national board at large. Queen Elizabeth II of Great Britain and Princess Anne made a nine-week tour of Fiji, Tonga, New Zealand, and Australia in the spring, and were joined by Prince Philip and the Prince of Wales for most of the trip. Mrs. Bernice Gibbs Andersen, of Corinne, Utah, was honored in May as Mother of the Golden Spike Celebration, at Promontory, Box Elder County, Utah. Writer and historian, she applied her enthusiasm and pioneer spirit to the creation of annual re-enactments of the joining of an eastern and a western railroad by the driving of the famous Golden Spike at Promontory in 1869.. 577 Editorial / The Mother and the Missionary @ One of the great contributions the women of the Church can make to the building of the kingdom of God on earth is to prepare their children to be missionaries. Knowing as we do that we are living in the Saturday evening of time, that the second coming of Christ is imminent, that the gospel must be taken to every kindred, tongue, and people, and that the members of the Church must do the Lord's work in this respect, it is apparent that there must be a great corps of young people ready to do their part of the work. A mother readies her children for their calls to be missionaries by creating in them the desire to go on a mission and fostering that desire throughout their growing-up years. She starts very early in their lives to implant the idea of making themselves ready. It is necessary to instill in them a willingness to serve since ''the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind'' (D&C 64:34) of those who serve him. An unwilling or slothful servant is not profitable to the work. The attitude toward a mission call as one of the important opportunities afforded to Latter-day Saints is usually the result of the parents' careful nurture and training. ) A mother prepares her children to be missionaries in two important ways, aS she guides their growth and education in spiritual and religious matters, and as she trains them. In the practical, temporal-aspects of their lives. The spiritual training begins. From the: moment of birth as the child feels the security of the love his parents have for him and as he. Is taught to understand the great love his Heavenly Father has=for him. — Children learn to pray as the family gathers in prayer and with his first attemps to speak, mother teaches him to pray. Early and continuous involvement in Church activities, attendance at sacrament meetings, participation in Church auxiliary programs give him a foundation of understanding. A wise mother encourages attendance at Seminaries and Institutes of Religion to give him a rich store of knowledge.. He should take advantage of opportunities to receive the benefit of counsel and hearing the stirring testimonies of returned missionaries. Habits of study should be well established. Volume 57 August 1970 Number 8 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 578 A mother, anxious to do the Lord's will and to instill in her children the same desire, will assist in holding productive, effectual Family Home Evenings. With her husband she will teach the gospel to her children. Her abiding, burning testimony will inspire them. Sons, honored in their priesthood, understand the great significance of the ordinations to the various offices of the priesthood. Daughters, honored in the wonderful role God has prepared for them, know there is a great work for them to do. The latter-day work has need of the strongest, most faithful, intelligent, and diligent men and women. Practical training is of vital importance. Young men and women who have learned self-reliance, self-discipline, self-control, and selfconfidence meet the rigorous demands of a mission well equipped. Good mothers teach their children to take care of themselves, to be independent to the extent of having firmly grounded habits of personal care. Proper health habits, cleanliness, pride in personal appearance and surroundings, all tend to make successful missionaries. Such simple things as bathing, brushing one's teeth, keeping clothes in good condition, and knowing how to spend money wisely come from good home training. Boys and girls should know how to prepare simple, yet nutritious meals. Good eating habits are essential if they are to keep well and have the strength for their labors. Boys as well as girls should know how to make their beds, keep rooms neat, wash their clothes and to make the best use of time. Some mothers are over-protective of their children who leave home unequipped in the very essentials of taking care of themselves. This is a disadvantage to the missionary and is often a burden to his companion. Early in life parents should provide projects to help the children earn money to be banked in a ''mission account.'' A mission requires all of one's talents and abilities. How fortunate the missionary who has been taught to develop his talents, who has, for instance, had music lessons. Since missionary work is person-to-person and success in approaching people to bring them the gospel depends in a measure on the basic amenities of politeness and courtesy, mothers are encouraged to teach their children good manners, to give them the confidence of knowing what is right to do in social contacts. Poor table manners Leone G. Layton Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Oflene J. Poulsen Aleine M. Young Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Marjorie M. Reeve Alberta H. Christensen Oa J. Cannon Elaine B. Curtis Ada J. Jones Winniefred S. Manwaring Lila B. Walch Zelma R. West Helen G. Lach Mary R. Young Lenore C. Gundersen _Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Fanny S. Kienitz Marjorie C. Pingree 'Reba O. Aldous Johna de St. Jeor Elizabeth B. Winters Darlene C. Dedekind Luella W. Finlinson Beverly J. Pond Alice L. Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Norma B. Ashton Inez T. Waldron Irene W. Buehner Ellen N. Barnes Maurine M. Haycock Anna Jean B. Skidmore Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Amy Y. Valentine Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Marian R. Boyer 579 August 1970 are so offensive to some people as to make them withdraw from further contact. It is important that missionaries know how to act in the homes of the people they contact. The practice of good manners should be simply second nature to a missionary. It is in the home he learns to be courteous and thoughful of others. A mother's work does not end with the preparation of a missionary. He needs her loving support, her frequent letters, her prayers and fastings for his success while he is on his mission. The Lord's work deserves the best efforts of all who have a part in it. The blessings that come to a mother who prepares her children to be missionaries are worth all of the effort required. The quiet satisfaction, the happiness of a goal accomplished, the soul-filling joy that comes from the accomplishments of her children, the spirit with which her home is blessed while the missionary lives close to his Father in heaven, the heart-warming knowledge that her children are actually in the service of the Father, and the assurance that, in all likelihood, they have set the tone of their lives, all are of supreme comfort. Each mother feels a little like Hannah as she gave her son to the Lord's service—an expression of her gratitude for having been given the privilege of bearing and rearing children worthy of the call. —L. W. M. Lucile P. Peterson Resigns From the General Board of Relief Society Relief Society sisters worldwide will miss the influence of Lucile P. Peterson in her work as a member of the General Board of Relief Society. Sister Peterson has resigned from the Board as of June 3, 1970, in order to fill a mission call with her husband M. Blaine Peterson, who has been called to preside over the South German Mission with headquarters in Munich. Sister Peterson has served on the Board since her call on September 29, 1965. During this time she has served on various educational committees and has filled many regional conference assignments including trips to foreign missions. She has inspired the sisters and fostered greater participation in the programs of Relief Society. She was chairman of the visiting teacher committee at the time of her resignation. She has always undertaken the many and varied responsibilities given to her in an attitude of sweet humility and has served with quiet ability and admirable efficiency. Sister Peterson and her husband are sure to be well received by the members and missionaries in Germany, and their service will be valued by many. The united love and best wishes of the Board and the sisters throughout the Church go with them as they continue in their unselfish service to the Lord. May they find joy in this new calling and receive the blessings which they so richly deserve. 580 Vol. 2 "Love, Marriage and the Hem" = 2.25 Vol. 3 "Intelligent Family Living"-______ _Hee eee ee LL 2.25 Vol. 4 "The World Pemmme --.- 2.25 Vol. 5 "Community Responsibility"--- _.22 1 7777 2125 581 CULTURAL REFINEMENT TEACHING AID PACKET A teaching aid packet is available for the cultural refinement class leaders. It will contain four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces, with commentaries (printed in the June and September 1970 color sections of the Relief Society Magazine) to be used with cultural refinement lessons 2, 4, 6, and 7. The kit containing the four art masterpieces and commentaries is available from the Deseret Book Company for the price of $2.00, postage prepaid regular third class mail. Overseas orders should be sent direct to Deseret Book Company by international money order. (These cannot be obtained through the General Board of Relief Society.) If airmail service is desired airmail postage for approximately 12 ounces should be included. All orders for this kit should be placed with or picked up at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or at the Deseret Book Company branches in the Cottonwood Mall in Salt Lake City, Utah, or Orange, California. VISUAL AID KITS No visual aid kits have been prepared this year for the spiritual living lessons, visiting teacher messages, or social relations lessons. Notice to Subscribers In compliance with the directive of the First Presidency, the Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue. In its place an adult magazine will be published by the Church. All the Relief Society lessons through May 1971 will be published in the Relief Society Magazine by the December 1970 issue. Any subscriber whose subscription expires in August, September, October, November, or December may subscribe to the remaining 1970 issues by giving to the Magazine representative 25 cents for each needed issue. Those whose subscriptions extend into 1971 will be notified later of the provisions to be made to recompense them. Relief Society Literary Contests Discontinued As the Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue, the Relief Society Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest will be discontinued. The poem contest (formerly the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest) was first conducted in 1923, and the story contest was initiated as a part of the Centennial observance of Relief Society in 1942. The 1970 prize-winning stories and poems were published in the April Magazine. The General Board extends gratitude and appreciation to the many talented women whose work has contributed to the high literary standards of the Magazine and whose thoughts, clothed in effective language and beauty of expression, have added to the quality and the value of the Magazine. 582 from (6) hat Should I in my pe n With the ol rsonal bo uMes an The first ma One like; ects Virtue," by n. So [ decided to Home," told me d found at ¢ Sibly thy. Ww Save that to Mount the beau throwawa "i could O another new r Sister did to 8° to Zion. * Many reminded me of Onferenc when I was Y lifted m On the Stake © out of MY world of itude. Put €se dear ]j ttle cannot throw As tall 4S Uplands are higher than the low.. As tall as rega} hemlock OF proud p You were kind-tal. Temple-s Oplars Srow. |_| _ &€Nerous. Taj > Pire-tall, as the highest timber. All this - Of you Ward. |. And remember. ® 6 We will look up —Alda Larson Brown 583 Relief Society —Arctic Style Marva D. Beck w It was fourteen below zero on the thermometer outside the dining-room window as the big boys left for school. Daddy had long since left to teach his earlymorning seminary class, and except for the icy windows life went on as usual, with not much thought to the cold outside. This was Relief Society morning, and with Mother being the president, the whole family usually helped to assure that everything went smoothly. Besides, this was homemaking day. That meant an extra trip or two to the car for the big boys to carry supplies and casseroles and salads for lunch. Daddy had made sure that the car was "plugged in" before he left early in the morning. (If we don't have extra heaters in the car and plug them in during the winter the car just won't start! This happens occasionally, anyway, and that means a frantic call to a counselor or a neighbor to get a ride for Mother, two little ones, and mountains of supplies and books!) Well, finally the car started and we edged our way to the church. Luckily we are only about 584 four miles away... Many sisters came much farther. Despite the bitter cold, many faithful sisters were there and we all spent an enjoyable morning quilting, and painting, embroidering, and doing the countless other things that homemaking meeting _ brings. At noon Daddy dropped by and picked up five-year-old Todd to take him to kindergarten. This was such a help, as then Mother didn't have to leave the other sisters especially right at lunch time. On their way to school they came across one of the sisters in the ward who was stuck, and so, in their chivalrous way, they stopped to help her get her stalled car out of the roadway and back to Relief Society. This made them a few minutes later than they expected. As a result Todd was late for school. When he arrived at his room, which is a relocatable building parked adjacent to the regular school building, the teacher had already called the roll and taken the children into the regular school building for gym. Todd went in, realized no one was there, and wondered what he should do. With five-year-old logic he decided there was no school that day and decided to return home. The school is nearly a mile in the other direction from our home! On his way home in the cold he suddenly realized that Mother was not home, but at Relief Society! What should he do? The only logical thing would be to walk to her at the chapel nearly five miles away... In subzero weather! The route he decided to take runs nearly all the way on streets with no houses. Past a local high school, a park, and otherwise unoccupied property. I wonder what people thought as they saw this little tike trotting down this lonely road on such a cold day. Todd reported that about six cars stopped and asked him if he would like a ride. He promptly reported, "No, thank you. My Daddy told me not to get in cars with strangers, and besides I'm just on my way to the Mormon Church." Finally the cold and _ lonelliness became hard, and I guess he continued the last two or three miles with tears streaming down his little cheeks. At the last intersection before he came to the chapel he encountered a fourway stop, and it was difficult for him to cross this busy street. At this point a kindly gentleman stopped and helped him across the street. When he finally arrived at the church nearly two and a half hours later, the initial shock of seeing him turned to concern for frostbite and other effects of the cold. On seeing him walk into the cultural hall where I was sewing, I said, "Todd, what are you Relief Society—Arctic Style doing here?" He smiled through the tears and said, "Mommy, there wasn't any school today, so I wondered if | knew the way to the chapel, and here I am!" We were nearly ready to leave the church and go home. It gets dark about 2:30 in Alaska in the midwinter, and I just wondered what he would have done if he had arrived, found the doors locked, and wandered home again in the darkness. The ironic thing was he had dressed fairly warmly and had his knitted hood to put over his face, but he left it off because he thought if we were on our way home we wouldn't recognize him with it on. We were a mightly thankful family that night as we poured out our hearts to our Father in heaven for the extra protection he had given to our little son and brother. He was surely with this little fellow as he journeyed back to Relief Society. Todd just laughs about it now and says, "I guess I can be a Tenderfoot Scout now... I've got in my five-mile hike!" GO A LITTLE HAND A little hand steals into mine, And | am comforted of pain; We walk the pleasant countryside And she is confident again. This is a strange new world to her And equally as strange to me, But with her hand in mine | walk On this same path more hopefully. She asks me if | know the way— | nod my head, in faith | smile; And am surprised that when | lead How tolerable my own long mile. —Leah J. Leonard 585 a ms of A > SMALL SANETUARE Little sod-roofed cellar, — Blurred by more than the tulle of shadow a Small sanctuary, half-earth, half-heaven, Guarding the stored globes of summer. He,. So tall, leaned through such a tiny door, Harvest in his fingers, our winter store. Still mounded under cloud a So low the rafter of your fragrant dark | It hardly' parts the cool of afternoon.:.. There once the varied orbs, heaped ruby and Waited our hunger on their beds of sand. Such as these knew his hoe, his scythe, his ha —Dorothy J. R all - Treasure From Grandmother's Cupboard Grace Diane Jessen @® When Grandmother died, her dishes were divided into nine numbered piles and each of her children received one according to a number pulled from a hat. My father decided, a few months later, to pass his pile of dishes on to his three daughters. Accordingly, one spring day, my sisters and I brought a dusty box up from the basement storeroom and examined the contents as eagerly as if it were buried treasure. I don't suppose any of the dishes would have brought much money at an auction, but to me they were a kind of treasure. Each one was a priceless gold mine of memories that linked me again to Grandmother whenever I saw it. My first choice from the assortment was Grandmother's large berry bowl. The clear glass was cut in a pattern of daisies and ornate leaves with smooth scallops around the nm. It would hold nearly two quarts of cold raspberries (picked from her own patch in the summer and bottled for winter-time company). It is a reminder of countless meals at Grandmother's round wooden table with that bowl, brimful of red berries, as a centerpiece. Next, I took a round relish plate of pale pink glass divided into four sections with a wide edge cut into intricate diamond shapes. I remember Grandmother's trembling hands bringing it into the dining room on special occasions with sweet and dill pickles, cheese slices, and pickled beets filling the compartments. The brown earthenware milk pitcher, with cheerful flowers winding up its sides under the shiny glaze, became another of my treasures. The pouring spout is badly chipped, but I hardly notice that. This pitcher was an item not reserved for company use but brought to the table for all ordinary meals. Perhaps that is why it seems more completely and uniquely to have belonged to Grandmother than any of the rest. The sweet fresh milk inside this pitcher unfailingly seemed to complement the snowy white tablecloth underneath. My next selection was a set of six water glasses. They are tall, thin, and straight with pink clover blossoms painted on the outside. Grandmother entrusted them to my young hands on several occasions when I begged to help her set the table, and in a small way they became a symbol of her early faith in me. I also chose four cereal bowls of translucent china with slightly rippled rims. They remind me of summer suppers of homemade bread, milk, and radishes that I shared with Grandmother at her drop-leaf kitchen table covered with floral oilcloth. Last, I fell heir to a fawn-colored cream pitcher with an unusual shape and 'design, somewhat like an Aladdin's lamp. It had no matching sugar bowl and it was one item I never remembered seeing in Grandmother's cupboard. Inside was a tiny key to some unknown lock. Perhaps the pitcher and its mysterious key had been tucked in a high 'corner years ago and forgotten. Now it rests on a high shelf in my cupboard where its mystery will probably never be solved. My sisters chose other objects which held special meaning for them. One selected, among other things, an old and delicate pink platter, and the other wanted a set of salt and pepper shakers in the shape of miniature pot-bellied stoves. We cherish our treasures not because of monetary value, but because of the gentle hands that lovingly washed and dried them year upon year and preserved them for us. On special occasions, to the delight of my children, I bring out our "Grandma's dishes" for use, with a warning to handle them carefully. In this day of hard plastic dinnerware, our glass treasurers are a fragile and precious link with the past. 587 PHOTOGRAPH BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS A Rug For Long Wear and Easy Care Edythe K. Watson, Member, General Board of Relief Society = Rug making is a fascinating and ancient art. Women down through the ages have designed and created many varieties of handmade rugs. Homemakers from nearly every land have left a rich heritage of rug making. Our Mormon pioneer women, because of the need, braided and hooked their own rugs for floor coverings. Some of you may still remember those used by your grandmothers. Rug making at home is no longer a necessity, but Relief Society women throughout the Church still take great pleasure in this craft. Some rugs are made solely for service and durability, while others are chosen for beauty and comfort. Relief Society homemaking displays have shown evidence of the ingenuity and creativity of women in pursuing this interesting art. Modern threads and yarns are a sheer delight to work with. They add beauty, long wear, and easy care to the many other desirable qualities of handmade rugs. This lovely crocheted rug displayed in the accompanying picture offers many possibilities in color and versatility. Dark shades were chosen in this instance to match the decor of a library, though the pattern can be equally attractive in white or any desired color or combination of colors. As the rug is made of washable yarn, laundering is no problem. The stitch is simple so it can be made quickly. Here are the instructions: 588 A Rug For Long Wear and Easy Care INSTRUCTIONS You will need 6 skeins of washable rug yarn (gold, brown, and blue were used for the rug in the accompanying picture). Loosely chain 15 inches of single crochet. In second chain from hook, make the Ist puff. (Puff: yarn over and bring up loop three times in single crochet or chain). There will be 7 loops on hook. Yarn over and go through all seven loops. Chain 1 to secure puff. Chain 1, skip stitch, make puff in next single crochet. Chain 1. Continue to last single crochet. In last single crochet make six puffs. Put a marker at beginning and end of these six puffs. A small safety pin or a colored thread will do. Now continue on along side, crocheting a puff opposite each puff on beginning row to last single crochet or chain. (Always chain 1 between each puff.) Crochet six puffs in this last chain. Mark beginning and end of six puffs as before. These six end puffs serve as the basis for the increase to be added. Next row. Continue around with 1 puff, chain 1 in each space, to the increase at the end of the row. In the space between the first two puffs of the six puffs increase make 2 puffs. Chain 1. Next space 1 puff chain 1. Next space 2 puff chain 1. Next space 1 puff chain 1. Next space 2 puffs chain 1. (8 puffs altogether.) This begins the diamond point and continues the pattern increase. There will now be three increases at the end. Continue around side with single puff pattern to the increase at other end of rug and make increase there as was done on first end—2-1-2-1-2. Continue, crocheting same pattern, around rug, adding on each row an additional puff in spaces between double puffs at increase end. This continues to build the number of single puffs between increases as the rug grows in size. Keep the double rows of increase even. Crochet 5 rows of gold yarn, bind off, change color. Crochet 4 rows of brown yarn, bind off, change color. Crochet 4 rows of blue yarn, bind off, change color. Crochet 4 rows of gold yarn, bind off, change color. Crochet 3 rows of brown yarn, bind off, change color. If you wish to use yarn of just one color, you will not need to bind off as indicated with color change. Edging: Single crochet in each space around rug. Two rows of blue yarn, one of gold yarn, and one of brown yarn were used for the edging of this rug. 4 10> Vv REFLECTION Even after all this time they still remain, The deep quiet pools of sadness. Secluded, forgotten, until stirred By a ripple of haunting melody, Or plumbed by a remembered gesture, The turn of a phrase. | see your face in their mirrored depths, And remember how, in later years, we smiled At the memory of tears shed for the short separations Of our youthful love. Perhaps the days of our separation will be soon spent, Your tender, teasing smile again will chide me For this grief. Slowly the waters settle and are still once more. —Sandra Lundquist 589 Born Cooks HAM LOAF Grind left-over ham. Mix half as much cooked rice with the ham. Moisten with enough cream or milk to hold together. Add grated or minced onion to taste. Add paprika to taste and salt if needed. Pour into loaf tin or casserole pan. Bake in moderate oven at 350 degrees. Cut or spoon to serve. BS PUMPKIN PIE FILLING 3 c. Peeled, boiled squash (or pumpkin) Add to mixture: 1 tsp. Flour 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1% tsp. Salt — Y2 tsp. Allspice 1 qt. Milk 12 tsp. Mace Mix and strain together. 2 tsp. Nutmeg 1 beaten egg (if small, use two) Taste mixture to tell if more salt is necessary before baking in crust. Bake in a hot oven (450 degrees) for 10 minutes, then in a moderate oven for about 30 minutes or until well set. This makes filling for 3 pies. OS DILL PICKLES Cucumbers (enough to be covered 1 qt. Vinegar by the vinegar-water mixture) % c. Salt 3 qts. Water sprigs of dill as desired Stir to dissolve salt while heating mixture to boiling point. Pour over cucumbers previously packed in sterile jars with sprigs of dill. Seal. S88 CHILI SAUCE 18 ripe tomatoes (medium size) 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1 large green pepper ~ tsp. Allspice 2 large onions 12 tsp. Ginger 1 c. Vinegar. Pinch red pepper 1 c. Sugar salt to taste Grind tomatoes, green pepper, and onions together. Add remaining ingredients. Boil until thick. Bottle and seal. SALMON CROQUETTES 1 tall can salmon 1 c. Soft bread crumbs 1 tbsp. Minced onion 1 tbsp. Parsley 1 tsp. Lemon juice. ¥g tsp. Pepper 1% tsp. Salt: 1 egg, beaten 1 tbsp. Oil or melted butter Mix all ingredients together and mold into cone or pyramid shapes. Fry, turning often to brown sides. | like to stand the cones in a buttered pan and bake for 30 minutes in a 400-425 degree oven. Makes 8 cones or six if larger ones are wanted. 591 August 1970 VIRGINIA CAKE % c. Cocoa or chocolate dissolved in a "1 c. Sour cream (not too thick) little hot water and cooled: 1 level tsp. Soda in 1 c.: sugar 22 c. Flour Yc. Butter ' Y% tsp. Cloves 2 eggs (whites beaten separately) ' Y% tsp. Cinnamon 2 tsp. Cream of tartar Sift dry ingredients together 5 or 6 times. Mix with other ingredients to which chocolate has been added. Add 1 c. Chopped nuts just before baking. Makes three layers. Put together. With caramel frosting. S88 CARAMEL FROSTING 1 c. Sugar % c. Cream ¥% c. Brown sugar butter the size of an egg Boil six minutes. Add 1 tsp. Vanilla. Stir until cool. Spread. 8 FRUIT SALAD DRESSING Y» ¢. Sugar lc. Boiling water 6 level tbsp. Flour grated rind and juice of 1 orange "pinch of salt grated rind and juice of 1 lemon Add to thickened flour and water mixture. Pour into jar or bowl to cool. When cold. Add whipped cream as desired. 205 CORN FRITTERS To a can of cream style corn add two beaten eggs (1 large or 2 small). Thicken with 1% cups crushed soda cracker crumbs. Salt and pepper to taste. Spoon into patties and brown in oil or shortening. Ee EARTH'S RENEWAL Lyric with April, mountains reach for sky, Pearl-shadowed in the rose and gold of dawn. Above the quickening stream, a killdeer's cry Pours spring's ecstatic melody upon A fledgling breeze. As seedling freshness spills Over the meadow's fragile green and gold, Even the hint of snow returning fills The heart with more of joy than heart can hold! Though coats of storm are wrapped around the elms, (Cloud fringe and sharp twig patterns intertwined Like worn fur. Trappings), though winter overwhelms A leafy freshness with a crystal kind, No frost, returning, stills or censures long The blush of earth's renewal, nor its song. —Maxine R. Jennings 592 Jane Clegg Edwards, Bonneville Ward, East Provo Stake, Utah, keeps her home beautiful inside and out. Her flowers bloom early in the springtime and keep their loveliness until late fall. Is always trim and neat, and her home painted and in good repair. Inside are hundreds of decorative items which she has made herself. Only a few of these are shown in the picture. The doll she is holding was her first childhood doll, for which she has made new clothing from the same pattern as it wore originally. Her two children, six grandchildren, and sixteen great-grandchildren are pleased with the many lovely things she has given to them, and will treasure them always, because they are made with love and great skill. Jutta Obst Carr, Parkersburg Branch (West Virginia), Ohio Mission, is skilled in many kinds of handiwork. She has knitted over thirty sweaters, and makes most of the clothing for her two children. She keeps her home filled with lovely as well as useful items she has made, including embroidered things, quilts, and colorful floral arrangements. Sister Carr came from Germany to the United States about eight years ago, and is now a United States citizen. She has attended Relief Society meetings since she was sixteen, and has served as a visiting teacher for many years. She has served as a counselor in her branch, as chorister, and as a teacher. She has also served as a counselor on the district board, and currently serves as the spiritual living class leader on the district board. A Grateful Heart Marva Jeanne Kimball Pedersen "I'm calling to thank you," came the voice of my dear friend Gayle, over the telephone today. "Thank me?" I was puzzled, for she was the one who had done me all the favors lately. "Yes—for the gospel," she replied. "Your great-great-grandfather isn't here for me to thank, so I'm thanking you." She went on to explain that in her research that morning she had discovered that her ancestors were among the early converts to the Church in Great Britain, being baptized in the River Ribble, which runs through Preston, England, in the summer of 1838. | And with pride and love, I accepted this posthumous tribute to one of the noblest of my forebears, Heber C. Kimball, who helped open the British Mission in 1837. I remembered how in his ordination to the apostleship, he was promised that many millions would be converted by his instrumentality. Surely Gayle is one of those millions. And what of our friendship had her ancestors not heard the gospel? What if Heber C. Kimball had not proved valiant—had not possessed the faith and courage necessary to leave his wife and little ones in the care of the Lord and travel with only money enough to pay his passage to what must have seemed, in those days, another world? In his own words, he went... Because a dispensation of the Gospel had been committed to me; and I felt an ardent desire that my fellow creatures in other lands might hear the sound of the everlasting Gospel, obey its requisitions, rejoice in the fullness and blessings thereof, and escape the judgments which will come upon the ungodly. (Orson F. Whitney, Life of Heber C. Kimball [Stevens & Wallis, Inc. Publishers, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1945], p. 114.) And today I am rejoicing in the blessing of a beautiful friendship made possible by the efforts of my great-great-grandfather preaching the fulness of the gospel in a distant land so many years ago. Today, accepting Gayle's gratitude vicariously for my long-deceased progenitor, whom I hope to be worthy to meet one day, I have a new reason to be grateful to him myself—a reason I have not considered in depth before—a reason which will be ever present in the future, especially as I witness the developing friendship among my six children and Gayle's eight. And I shall wonder how many others of my friends are my brothers and sisters in the gospel because of Heber C. Kimball. And, finally, in my contemplation comes the solemn thought: how many of my descendants will rejoice in coming years because of my missionary efforts? Will their precious friendships be with people whose ancestors I had a part in bringing to a knowledge of the gospel? My patriarchal blessing promises that the spirit of my ancestry will rest upon me, that all the gracious qualities that permeated their lives will give me courage and fortitude to accomplish my mission on the earth. May it be so. I resolve to increase my faith and diligence with each passing day. 594 Shall I Deem Her My Enemy? Cora Hill Arnold I didn't like her! I don't know why. I just simply didn't like her. I am sure those who study these things would have said it was a "personality clash." I found fault with everything she did—not always to myself, I am ashamed to admit. I heard from others that she felt the same way about me. She seemed always to force herself into the limelight, to show everyone how important she was. How I disliked to see her achieve. She was never very friendly to me, and I would pass her with a cool nod or a polite "hello." When I thought about her—which was too often—I was miserable because to dislike a person does make one unhappy. And then one day I heard she was ill. So what? It was not my worry. But it was, and I couldn't forget it. Because I have an active conscience I finally went into my kitchen and stirred up some applesauce cupcakes and swirled a favorite frosting on carefully, not forgetting colored candies for the top. And I took them to her! Her face lighted up with surprise and pleasure, and a warm glow spread over my heart, washing away the angry prejudice at once. As I walked from her home to mine I was smiling and the day was bright and beautiful. Now she is one of my close friends. We have great fun times together. We have much in common and I have found her to be a most choice person with a delightful sense of humor. She has many talents and is extremely modest about them. When she achieves I glow with pride. Someone has said, "Hate is love gone wrong. We hate those whom we might have loved." I only know my loss would have been great had I continued to deem her my enemy. HIS FATHER'S KEYS His father takes my little son On all the errands he must run— The two of them walk side by side. My little son is filled with pride To be on every one of these, Entrusted with his father's keys. At first | longed to rescue them For purse or pocket once again. My mind could only visualize Their loss. But now | recognize The wisdom of his father's act, The existence of a simple fact: Many doors require keys; And faith and love are two of these. —Carolyn K. Dickson 595 (he Suilease Floy Daun Mackay y 7: @ Julie flung open the top of the suitcase on the bed and sat down beside it. The suitcase was only half full—or perhaps it was really only half empty. Julie was going to decide which it was this very day. One more dress would surely make it more full than empty, and that would mean she could leave Hartsville. At first she had tried the objective approach and made a list. She took a piece of paper, folded it in half, and put all the reasons to stay on one side, and all the reasons to go on the other. It didn't work. Somehow, when the disadvantages presented themselves, she got so angry she didn't want to be sitting down writing them all out. Besides, she kept losing the list. (She thoroughly suspected Paul of "losing" it when the disadvantage side got sufficiently long.) 596 Then she had decided on tangible evidence. She put her suitcase at the foot of the bed, and when something just terrible happened she packed a dress. When something good happened she took one out. There were only two problems. Paul kept stubbing his toes on it when it was his turn to get up at night with the baby. The other problem was that what she had thought would be a short-term decision turned into several months— and half her wardrobe seemed always to be packed in that suitcase. Julie ran her fingers over the dresses. She laughed when she realized how long it had been since she had worn the blue knit at the bottom. She had put it in the suitcase the day Mr. Stover's cow fell in the town's water supply. They had been sitting in church when Brother Fuller had announced they would need all the men right after the meeting to come to the small reservoir and remove the cow so the open ditches could fill again and supply the houses with washing water (not drinking or cooking water—that had to be brought from the spring five miles down the road). Julie thought of the first time she had turned on the tap and a dull gray liquid poured out. "Paul! Something is the matter with the pipes." Paul came in and turned on the tap. This time it was brownish-red. "What time is it?" Paul asked. "For goodness sakes, Paul, what difference does that make? You'll have to get somebody to fie it." | "It makes a difference, Julie. If you want clean water here you have to get up early. The water comes to the houses in open ditches. The dirt settles out during the night and, if you are one of the first ones up you can have clean water. By this time in the morning the water is well stirred up." "Paul, please take me away from here. When you said you were going to teach some miners' children who couldn't get down to Hartsville, I really felt we were doing something wonderful... Loving our neighbor and that: sort of thing. I thought it would be... Well, courageous. But it's awful! Just awful!" Paul put his arms around her. "Julie, these children need me. Their parents only went to the third or fourth grade because there just haven't been schools by the mines. They want so desperately to have something better for their children. If we left now, who would come to take my place? They would lose a whole The Suitcase semester of school, maybe more. Please stay." It had been a long time since she had worn the green wool, too. She had been leaving the little store and post office when she saw Jerry Barton race by, followed closely by three other young boys just out of school. "Look out, Jerry!" she screamed, but not soon enough. Jerry crashed headfirst into the telephone booth. His body slumped limply beside the shattered glass. Blood spurted from a deep slash on the side of his head and neck. Julie grabbed the clean diaper tucked beside Troy in the stroller, folded it quickly, and ran to Jerry. Her arms slipped around his unconscious body, her hand applying pressure with the folded diaper. "Billy, run for Jerry's mother. Tell her to bring the car and not to stop to call the doctor. Run, Billy, like you never ran before." Billy ran like a frightened rabbit. "Roger, tell Mrs. Riley to come out here and call the doctor in Fairgrove. We'll meet him in the emergency room of the hospital." Roger left. "Jim, you take Troy over to your house and tell your mother I've gone with Mrs. Barton to the hospital—and Jim, you take good care of my boy." MIs. Barton pulled the car to a screeching halt alongside the booth, dashed out of the car, and started toward Jerry. "Get back in, Ellen. I'll drive." It was Brother Fuller from the store. He lifted Jerry into Mrs. Barton's arms, turned to Julie and spoke quietly. "Pray, Julie, or we can't make it in time." 597 August 1970 The car sped off in a shower of gravel. Julie started off after Troy, ashen faced and limp. Four hours later Brother Fuller knocked at their door to report they had driven the forty-five miles to Fairgrove in twenty-five minutes. Jerry had survived. It was no less than a miracle, but Julie understood the anguish Mrs. Barton had felt. If Troy had-an emergency how could she make it to the hospital in time? There would be no car for Julie. Paul needed it to drive the twelve miles to his one-room schoolhouse at Little Creek. No, a young mother without a car shouldn't be here. And that night she packed away the green wool. The blue sweater had been in the suitcase twice. Julie put it in the night Paul told her they were going to have a_ potluck supper at the church. Julie was elated. There were no movies, no TV in Hartsville. Church events provided their sole entertainment. "When isit?" she asked eagerly. "Next Friday." "Oh, not next Friday, Paul— that's the 28th and you won't get paid until the next Monday. What did they tell you to bring?" "A casserole for eighteen," Paul answered hesitantly. Julie wanted to cry—she wanted to cry so much she became cross. ""'Who ever heard of living in a town with only one little store—a store that doesn't carry bread because the women bake their own—and practically no meat because the men prefer deer and pheasants." Julie disliked wild game, but in despera- 598 tion had given in to deer meat. "Can't you make something out of the deer meat in our locker?" Paul was trying to be helpful. "Paul Scott, how long do you think one small deer lasts when you have to have it every night for three months? Do you know what's left in our locker? Three packages of ribs. Do you know why we've had scrambled eggs for supper the last two nights? Because I'm still trying to muster the courage to eat deer ribs." They were both silent then. Julie wasn't angry with Paul, but, for the moment, she wished he had chosen to stay in Los Angeles. He could have made almost double his present salary there; but Paul had some kind of gnawing inside him. It made him feel that people blessed with good things—education for example—had an obligation to share them with others. Julie's feelings softened as she thought of what a good man Paul was. "Paul," she started, but Paul interrupted. "Julie, I have an idea." Julie brightened. "Yes?" "How about a rabbit casserole?" "Rabbit!" she shrieked. "And what's next—prairie dogs, porcupine?" And with that she went into the bedroom to pack the blue sweater. On Friday she took it out. Thursday, she read in Paul's Sportsman's Magazine that rabbit has a flavor like chicken. She thought about it, got out her cookbooks, and decided her feelings about wild game weren't going to keep her from that dinner. "Paul," she asked timidly when he came home from school, "do you suppose you could try to get us a rabbit or two for the supper tomorrow night?" When she was besieged for the recipe for her "chicken casserole" she never told. She just took the blue sweater out of the suitcase. She put it back the day the gas bill came. When Paul opened the door that evening he found Julie in the hallway carrying an ax. "Where are you going with my ax?" he questioned with surprise. Julie answered calmly, "I am going to convert the gas heater to a wood heater, and I'm about to start my wood supply." As Paul stood dumfounded, Julie started up the stairs. "That's not the way to the chopping stump." "I am starting my wood supply, Mr. Scott, from the useless second story of this drafty, miserable old barn." And up she went. Of course Paul went up after her. "You're joking," he said, as he caught hold of her arm—the one with the ax in it just to be sure— "I mean—you've got to be joking!" "You think I'm joking!" she answered, and thrust the month's gas bill into his hand. "The way you were joking, I suppose, when you told me we were going to have a big three-bedroom house to live in. A fine three-bedroom house it is—two bedrooms upstairs with no heat, and the bottom story so drafty even our relatives won't stay overnight." Paul looked down at the bill and collapsed on the top step. The Suitcase It was $65. Julie marched down to the bedroom, ax still in hand, to pack the blue sweater again. The yellow dress was put in the day she "broke" the sheet. Everything went wrong that day. Troy fell out of the high chair, the pilot light went out on the stove, and she spilled a bucket of wash water all over the kitchen floor. By the time she was able to get the washing off the line, the sheet had frozen. When she pulled it, the whole corner popped off as if it had been pottery. Paul thought it was funny that every other week they would have an automatically turn down corner. Julie didn't laugh—it was on her side of the bed. The gray skirt had been put in the night she was awakened by a sudden shrieking how]. She had sat straight up in bed, eyes wide and heart pounding. "What's that?" "What's what?' Paul had yawned and turned over. "Didn't you hear it?" "It must have been the wind. Go back to sleep." Paul didn't take kindly to being awakened for nothing. Getting up with Troy was enough. Julie wasn't convinced. She leaned back on the pillow, but she didn't close her eyes. She had just decided she might as well try to go back to sleep when the howl came again. It was right beneath their bed. "Paul!" she screamed and pounded his shoulder. "Wake up! It's under the bed!" Paul was awake now. He flicked on the light and blinked his eyes. He looked under the bed, and then finding nothing, shushed Julie into silence so he 599 August 1970 could listen. In a moment the howling began again. Paul gave a relieved sigh, clicked off the light, and climbed back into bed. Bed. "Nothing to worry about, honey. You remember Delyle, the Government trapper? Well, he says there're badgers, coyotes, and bobcats that come into town in the winter to get out of the cold. It's just one of them under the house." "Coyotes badgers bobcats?"' Julie repeated numbly "... Under the house." She stepped out of bed, clicked the light on, and packed the gray skirt. The white blouse was packed just yesterday. Paul's car had skidded off the icy pavement near the turn into the school grounds. Even truck drivers said it was a treacherous piece of road. Paul was lucky, or, as he said, blessed that he wasn't injured. Today the roads were clear, but she wondered about the next storm. Would he make it through that, too? Julie couldn't keep the suitcase at the bottom of the bed any longer. It was either time to go, or time to stay. The balance certainly seemed to indicate a time to go. Troy cried. Julie lifted him gently from the crib and snuggled him to her cheek. "Almost ready for lunch, sweetheart?" Troy giggled contentedly as she carried him into the kitchen and settled him momentanily in the playpen. "Better move this," Julie said aloud, as she picked up Paul's sweater he had _ hastily thrown over the chair that morning. "The color clashes with strained carrots." A wrinkled piece of. School paper fell from the pocket. Julie picked it up and moved toward the wastebasket. It was probably nothing, but she had learned never to throw away any paper, however insignificant or ragged, without looking to see what it was, first. This time it wasn't one of Paul's "idea" notes. The writing was scrawled and smudgy. Dear Mr. Scott: Sally told us kids you wasn't coming back next term. When I told my foks my ma cried. She told us to pray hard so I been praying long as I can. I got a job raking tailings after school and I will give you my 50¢ if you won't go. I love you, Billy Julie studied the wrinkled note until all the words seemed to run together. She folded it carefully and tucked it back in the pocket. Then she looked at Troy. "You be a good boy, Troy. I'll be back in a minute to get your lunch, but right now I've got some unpacking to do." 88 THE FLOWERING Regret is the small taut rosebud, Petals folded tense and new; Repentance is the rose in flower, Spangled with crystal dew. —Iris W. Schow SYNOPSIS: Johnny, Steven, and Elizabeth McIntyre have returned to Skylark, Kansas, when their sister Lila informs them that their beloved Aunt Lucinda, who reared them from the time they were orphaned at an early age, has passed away. They must plan the funeral, and dispose of the estate. They were always forbidden to go to Blueberry Hill, and wondered what the secret or danger of the Hill was. There had been several offers to buy it, but their aunt had refused to sell. Johnny has persuaded Lila to return to Kansas City with him. W "Here they come!" Johnny called out as Elizabeth and Steven walked toward the gate where Lila and Johnny were waiting for them. Lila noticed the tall, darkhaired young man walking between them. Norman Strong! Her heart lifted at the sight of him. Norman had come to Skylark for Aunt Lucinda's funeral! Dear, kindhearted Norman, always nearby when she really needed him. Then she wondered The Secret of Blueberry Hill Rosa Lee Lloyd Chapter 2 if he were on his way to San Francisco and had merely stopped over to pay his respects to the family. He traveled for Hoffman Hardware Company and it could be coincidence that he was on the same plane as Elizabeth and Steven. Anyway, she was happy he came. He was looking at her now with the same wistful smile that she remembered from their childhood. "You knew I'd be here," he said holding her hands in both of his. "When Elizabeth called me this morning I knew I would come if I had to hang onto the wing of their plane. I want to help you, Lila Bob." There it was again, that old nickname from those long ago days. "Norman," she murmured. "I'm so glad you came. Really glad." The moment was very confused as they all circled around Lila. Her regal, beautiful sister, Eliza- 601 August 1970 beth, who was now head nurse at Center City hospital, enfolded Lila in her arms and wept with remorse because she hadn't been here to help Aunt Lucinda. '"'We might have saved her!"' she said, tearfully. "All these new methods we have now to help people and my own darling aunt had to die without one bit of help. Oh, forgive me, Lila, I didn't mean that the way it sounded. I'm just sick about this whole thing." "T know, dear," Lila comforted her. "We all are. But Aunt Lucinda was all right when she went to bed. She was reading when I peeked in an hour later. Dr. Harrison said her heart just stopped beating." ped!" Elizabeth insisted. "Steve and I should have made her have regular checkups and proper attention—there I go again saying the wrong thing!" "She had a checkup last week," Lila said, defensively. "Dr. Harrison said she was good for twenty years." "Dr. Harrison was wrong!" Elizabeth looked down from her regal height and Lila thought, Elizabeth is beautiful when her dark eyes flash with feeling. It was easy to forgive Elizabeth because she did love Aunt Lucinda with a fierce devotion. And she was a nurse and wished she could have helped her. "How about a kiss for your big brother?" Steve cut in. He was the gentle peacemaker in the family. No one ever argued with Steven. Somehow everyone nearly always thought he was right about everything. Lila put her arms around his 602 neck and clung to him for comfort. "We're still blocking traffic," Johnny interrupted. "Let's start for home. Then we can have some real old-fashioned arguments like when we were kids. You can referee, Norman." As they turned the corner onto Clover Street Lila could see a man on the front porch pacing impatiently back and forth. They all recognized Orson Ketchum at once. "Of all people!" Elizabeth said. "Whoever thought he'd be the first one here!"' "Now Elizabeth—" Steven placated her, "he's come to pay his respects to Aunt Lucinda." ""Well—maybe," Elizabeth conceded as she stepped out of the car. "But I'll bet he's come to buy Blueberry Hill. Anyway—let's give him the benefit of the doubt." So they all greeted Orson Ketchum as a friend of Aunt Lucinda's and not as her lawyer who had tried to buy Blueberry Hill for the last twenty years. "T noticed you are locking your doors, too," he said to Lila after the greetings were over. "It's a sad day in this country when us folks out here have to lock our doors day and night." "Signs of the times, Mr. Ketchum," Steven said as they went inside the house. "We didn't have a key to this place when I was a boy. We were honest ourselves so we figured our friends and neighbors were honest, too. But nowadays it's hard to tell the tramps from the citizens. We used to have about two tramps a year drop by. Aunt Lucinda gave them a good meal but they had to work for it. 'We MclIntyres work for everything we have,' she would tell them. 'So if you're well enough to tramp across this country, you're well enough to cut us a stack of wood.' " Orson Ketchum's long face with deep lines from nose to mouth creased into a_ smile. "Sounds just like Lu McIntyre," he said. "A great woman. Strongminded, unyielding, even a little stubborn, but a really great woman. I always called her my beloved enemy. I will miss her—more than I can tell you children. We need more people with her courage and convictions." His voice faltered and he cleared his throat. "There was nothing she wouldn't do to make good men and women of you. And she did sacrifice for you—I can tell you that now." His voice broke again. It was a moment before he continued. "I will miss Lucinda. It's like losing someone you had to live up to. Someone who made you strive harder to be a better person. You all know what I mean. Well—now I'll be going on." He reached in his coat pocket and took out an envelope. "I came to give you this. It's not to be read until after her funeral. That was her request." They all looked at him questioningly as he handed it to Lila. "No..." he shook his head. "No, Lu didn't know she was going to leave us. But she was a woman who took care of things, just in case the unexpected did happen. Good-bye now. My wife and I will be at the funeral. I suppose it will be Wednesday." Lila walked to the porch with The Secret of Blueberry Hill him. "Thank you for coming, Mr. Ketchum," she said kindly. "We all appreciate it so much." "Take care of that letter," he said. "Put it in a safe place." She watched him start down the path; then he stopped and looked at the bright red roses on both sides of it. Suddenly he stooped, picked a tiny bud and put it in the lapel of his coat. It was the first time in her life she had noticed Orson Ketchum even look at a flower. That was a real tribute to Aunt Lucinda, she thought, pensively. Had _ they misjudged him all these years, she wondered? Did people go through life having feelings of prejudice against other people because they didn't understand them? "Qh, Lila!" Susan Wilkins called across the lot next door. "I have a telephone message for you. I wrote it down so I wouldn't forget it." Loita walked halfway across the lot to meet Susan. Sunflowers were a yellow glory all around her. She loved them even though they were sticky this time of year. Home wouldn't be home without wild sunflowers to brighten this vacant lot between the McIntyre and Wilkins' houses. "Mr. Harrington called twice while you were gone," Susan told her. "I didn't know where you were so [ couldn't explain." "Thanks, Susan. I should have told you we were going to the airport." "He seemed real charming," Susan added, smiling at Lila. "He said he would be over later. I wrote it down." Lila folded the note and put 603 August 1970 it in her sweater pocket, with the envelope. "Hello, Miss Lila." She turned to look at the tall boy getting off his bicycle. He leaned it against the wall of the house and walked through the sunflowers toward Lila. It was Casey Wilkins! She hardly recognized him lately since he had let his blond hair grow down over his ears. Only last week Lila had heard Aunt Lucinda refuse to let him mow her lawn until he cut his hair. "Then your lawn will grow real long, Miss McIntyre," he had answered. "I like my hair this way. It's the style." Brunt Lucinda had_ looked him over, head to toes. "Casey Wilkins, now you listen to me. You're a good boy. I've liked your work. I like the way you treat your mother since your father was killed last year and 'you ride your little sister Pearl to school on your handle bars. But the way you've let your hair grow all bushy over your ears and around your neck is downright unsightly." "It's the style, Miss MclIntyre," he had insisted determinedly. "You should get with it." "Get with it!" Aunt Lucinda had repeated to Lila as she stamped into the kitchen. "That boy! Only fourteen, and he told me to get with it. That boy's mother should use a cane!" Lila -had laughed and _ told Aunt Lucinda that Casey didn't mean to be disrespectful to her. "Maybe not," she agreed. "But he'll have to get a haircut before he can have his job back!" The lawn had grown shaggy 604 the past month and so had Casey's hair. Now he walked toward Lila as she stood in the path between their homes. His mother went back into their house. "T just heard—" he said, "about Miss McIntyre, I mean. I feel awful—sad—inside." He looked at Lila as though coaxing her to help him find words to say what he meant. "I feel like something strong and good—has gone out of this crazy world. I didn't even mean to offend her Miss Lila. I wanted to cut her lawn but I didn't want a haircut. She didn't understand—how it is—with a boy these days." His voice stumbled. He kicked at the dirt path. "Ill cut the lawn for nothing, if you'll let me, Miss Lila." Lila looked at this tall, lanky boy wanting to make up for disagreeing with Aunt Lucinda. She wanted to tell him he could have his job back but she could not do it. She wanted to say, oh yes, Casey, you can have your job back even though you haven't trimmed your hair. But that wouldn't be fair to Aunt Lucinda. Casey looked ungroomed with his blond hair lopping over his ears and down the back of his neck. She would be unfaithful to Aunt Lucinda's efforts to help the young people of Skylark if she gave in to his request. _ "Pll have to think it over, Casey," she said. "You know Aunt Lucinda thought you would be a leader at Junior Club. She did make strict rules but someday you will know she was right." "Long hair is in," he persisted. "IT don't want to be out." "No one wants to be out," Lila agreed. "And you don't have to be, Casey. A leader who is a strong character can set the style. He can lead the other boys. She only wanted you to look like a gentleman, Casey." He blinked his eyes and bent his head. '"I—liked her, too," he muttered, "a lot. She was like a—well—". He lifted his head and looked at the big oak tree near the front porch, spreading its long leafy branches over the picnic table and the old swing. "She was like that tree, Miss Lila. Always standing there. Even when the wind blows like a tornado coming, I get up at night and look out the window. If that big old tree is still there I know Skylark is still on the map. I feel okay again. That's the way I felt about Miss McIntyre. She gave me my bike when I needed it for my paper route," his voice faltered again. ""Now—she's gone. I didn't cut her lawn—look at it! Why did she have to die, Miss Lila?" Lila's throat pinched in. She saw the wistful questioning in his young eyes, the tremble of his mouth and she prayed earnestly, Oh, Heavenly Father let me know how to answer him. He is so young; just at the crossroad, neither boy nor man. I want to say the nght words to him. The sky above them was very blue, the Kansas sun was warm and bright; the air was heavy with the fragrance of growing things. A flock of birds flew into the branches of the oak tree. Life about them was serene and peaceful. Lila drew a long breath. "I think her work here was finished, The Secret of Blueberry Hill Casey," she said very carefully. "She was needed somewhere else. After she rests awhile and visits with all our dear ones, she will progress. You learned in Sunday School that we believe in eternal progression. Don't you remember that she told you that work and prayer were the greatest things in life? I am sure there is work in eternity. She would want us to think of her as doing things, planning things, building things. She was a poet at heart, Casey. Many times I have heard her quote the lines, 'Build thee more stately mansions, oh, my soul.' Let's think of her as building more stately mansions." He looked steadily into Lila's eyes. "You mean, doing the Lord's work, Miss Lila?" he questioned. "That's what I mean, Casey. Only you said it better than I did." "Okay," he said slowly. "We'll think of her that way. But—Ill still miss her." Lila breathed a deep sigh of relief as Casey turned and walked back toward his home. Suddenly he swung around and ran back to Lila. "I just thought, Miss Lila. Now we can go up to Blueberry Hill. I promised Miss McIntyre that I wouldn't go and I never did. Neither did little Pearl. But now—it's different. Don't you think so?" Lila's fingers touched the envelope in her pocket. "Not until after the funeral, Casey. Please, let's all wait until we know what she wanted us to do." Lila took Aunt Lucinda's letter from her pocket as she went back into the living room. Elizabeth was resting against the gaily colored pillows on the 605 August 1970 lounge. Steven, Johnny, and Norman were seated in front of her with their feet propped up on the ottoman. They stopped talking when they saw her. "Looks like a pow-wow," Lila said as the men got to their feet. "Come in, join us, suggested, smiling at her. "First I must put this letter in a safe place," she answered, walking toward the mantel. "How's this?" bP) Steven thought, admiring her firm, lean body and lustrous black hair. Her dark eyes were bright and intelligent and she was tall, five feet eleven. She wore her clothes, even her white uniforms, with charm and dignity. But now, Lila noticed, there was a droopy weariness about her posture as though she needed quiet and rest. "Let's go upstairs, Elizabeth," Lila said on a sudden impulse. "A good idea!" Steven agreed. "You girls relax. We'll take care Yo _/ of everything down here." _ 9 Lila and Elizabeth went upA SS stairs together. Carefully she put the letter behind the Dresden clock that Aunt Lucinda had brought back from her European tour before the children came to live with her. The clock had been her most treasured possession. "Everybody, remember where _I put it," she told them. "How can we forget?" Johnny questioned. Elizabeth stood up, stretched her arms above her head. She is so queenly beautiful, Lila 606 on A Hip NOX RAV "IT love this old bedroom," Elizabeth said as she folded the crocheted counterpane and lay down on the bed with a grateful ~ sigh. "We've had such good talks _~right here, Lila Bob. Remember how you came bouncing in here after Norman taught you how to skate when you were only ten years old? We were all so proud of you!" "I remember," Lila mused, sitting down on the side of the bed. "And later on everyone thought it was wonderful that we won the junior prize at the 9. Midwinter Marathon. We skated A Le longer than any other couple." Elizabeth pulled a face and shook her head. "You mean Norman won it, Lila Bob. Johnny told us he practically carried you around that skating rink the last quarter of the race. Even Aunt Lucinda had to agree." Lila's cheeks pinked up. "I know," she admitted. "I would have flopped out at the half if Norman hadn't made me go on." Elizabeth looked closely at Lila. "We were wondering—what are your plans—now?" she asked. Her eyes were warm and loving. "You can't live alone in this big old house. We won't let you. You are very precious to us. It's high time we do something for you." "T_T haven't had time to make plans," Lila answered, "except a short trip to Kansas City with Johnny." "He told us. We all think you should reach out for life and happiness." Lila lay down beside her sister. Did they think she had gone stale here in Skylark, she wondered, achingly. After all she had been needed here. Aunt Lucinda had needed her. Elizabeth talked on in her practical way. She had always thought daydreaming was a waste of time, Lila remembered. You have to do things, she had told Lila last spring—not just wish for them to happen. "We can sell this old house," Elizabeth said. "It could be used as a small emergency hospital. Skylark needs a hospital. Steven and I have always planned to build one here where we could take care of our own townspeople. We are saving our money to start the project. Would you like to join us, Lila? We'll ask Johnny, too. He makes big money now." Lila sat up, looking at her sister. "Money!" she repeated. "Elizabeth, it will take a lot of money to finance a hospital. Even a small one. Think of the new equipment. That is the reason we don't have one in Skylark. Money!"' Elizabeth's eyes narrowed as she looked steadily back at Lila. The Secret of Blueberry Hill "Do you think Scott Harrington's bank will lend us the money? You've worked in the loan department for two years. You should know how his mind works by now." Lila did not answer quickly. She had learned not to make quick decisions or rash promises. "I don't know," she answered, carefully. "Scott has the last word on everything after the board of directors has made its decision. Yes, I have worked there for two years, but, Elizabeth! I really don't know Scott Harrington. He's quiet and aloof at the bank. I have been to the North River Club with him but that is all. That was formal; as formal as Scott is." Elizabeth's eyes were quizzical. "I have wondered about you, Lila Bob. Do you still have that little-girl crush on Scott?" Lila swallowed hard. So Elizabeth hadn't forgotten how Lila used to look at Scott when he came home with Steven. Her blue eyes flickered from her sister's. "You do!" Elizabeth said. "Don't say that!" Lila gasped. "He doesn't even look at me. Not really. Not as a grown-up girl. I'm just little Lila McIntyre in the small-loan department. The kid sister of Steven and Elizabeth. He asks about you both— often. But he scarcely notices me." Elizabeth's eyes went over Lila from her sunny light hair to her shapely feet. "Scott Harrington must be blind or stupid or in a rut," she said, indignantly. Then her voice gentled. "You are such a darling, Lila Bob. Your hair is like our 607 August 1970 mother's was, golden-red and curly. Natural, too. That's such a treat these days when you see all this lank, straggly, unkempt hair. And your eyes are as honest as the sun over Kansas. Your mouth was made to say sweet things and croon to babies. That is why Aunt Lucinda hoped you would marry young. Once she nearly suggested that she had a boy picked out for you." "She hoped it," Elizabeth insisted. "You're not like I am, Lila Bob. Everyone who looks at me thinks I am able to face the world on my own. I guess I am. But you—well, you need love and marriage. And babies. I'll have to get on without those things." Lila's heart quickened. Had she heard a wistful longing in Elizabeth's voice? Did her strong capable sister have a womanly yearning for a home and husband and children? Elizabeth had been away from Skylark for eight years, except for vacations. College, nurse training school had kept her busy. Now she was superintendent of nurses. At Center City Hospital. She was the symbol of success to Lila and yet—there had been a tone of longing in her voice when she spoke of marriage. Elizabeth closed her eyes and lay quietly. Lila thought again how lovely she was. Would there ever be a man equal to Elizabeth, she wondered? One who could match her regal manner and not feel frustrated. Lila leaned back on her pillow and closed her eyes. She wanted everything good and beautiful for her sister, whatever it might be. 608 "You're tired." Elizabeth patted her hand. "Let's try to sleep awhile." Lila pretended to rest but her mind was in turmoil. This was a time of change and crises in her life. Only the Heavenly Father could show her what she should do, she thought as she finally drifted off to sleep. Johnny's voice awakened them. He was standing in the doorway. "Hi, sleepyheads! It's almost five o'clock. Time to wake up." Lila got to her feet. "Oh, Johnny! Why didn't you call me sooner. I should have started dinner. Now I don't know what we'll have to eat!" "Come here, Johnny," Elizabeth said. "I want to talk to you. Dinner can wait." Johnny shook his head. "Not now," he said. "A certain guest downstairs won't wait much longer. Better powder your faces and comb your hair. The great Scott Harrington is_ getting restless." Lila's_ throat pinched in. Scott Harrington was downstairs! Elizabeth yawned as she sat up. "He'll have to take us just as we are," she said. "Without glamor. A fresh white blouse and a dark skirt will be appropriate, Lila Bob." Lila, looking at Elizabeth a few moments later as they went downstairs thought how Elizabeth was always right. She knew the right thing to wear, the right thing to say and the right time to keep still.. Now, dressed in her tailored white blouse and dark skirt, she looked like a cross between Florence Nightingale and Princess Grace. HT il Scott came forward to meet them. Lila noticed he was impeccably dressed in a dark suit and gray tie and his hair was freshly combed. His smile had warmth and friendliness and the priceless ingredient of compassion. He had lost his father, his only close relative, a year ago. "Blizabeth!" He extended both his hands. "It's been a long time since we saw each other. And Lila," his smile included her. "That little girl I have seen every day. She is my right-hand helper." There was a moment when Lila felt that was a special compliment. Then he turned his wholehearted attention to Elizabeth. He touched her elbow and led her to the window seat. "The whole town will miss your Aunt Lucinda," Lila heard him say. - Lila walked over to Steven who gave her a brotherly kiss. "You look rested," he said. "T must start dinner," she told him. 'Everyone will be starving." "That's taken care of," he said. "Johnny and Norman have cooked up a meal." Scott came forward in his - commanding way. The Secret of Blueberry Hill "T want to ask you all to have dinner with me at the North River Club. We _ can have the private dining room. I know you would prefer that—tonight...." His voice trailed off. He was looking at ' Johnny and Norman standing In the doorway of the dining room. Both of them were wearing Aunt Lucinda's kitchen aprons. Beyond them Lila could see the \ table set for dinner. She met Norman's eyes. She au ab \'' knew it was he who had suggested il Hy 'that they start dinner while she and Elizabeth rested. No one had ever been more thoughtful of Lila than Norman. Even in this moment a flash of memory tinkled like a bell. Norman had been the boy who carried her down the mountain to the ski lodge when she sprained her ankle. He had patiently taught her to skate and swim when Steven and Johnny had given up. It was Norman who had walked her to school when she was afraid to go through the Old Hollow alone. Now all eyes were on Lila waiting to hear her answer Scott. Her throat tightened. How could he expect them to accept his invitation when the boys had prepared dinner here at home? But Scott was accustomed to having his suggestions accepted. And his suggestions were really commands. Lila lifted her head and her chin squared off. She would not hurt Norman and Johnny even though she did work for Scott Harrington. Before she could speak she was surprised to hear Elizabeth's voice, gracious, but positive. "I'm sorry, Scott. The boys have 609 August 1970 prepared dinner here. Please stay and dine with us. We would love to have you, but we can't leave now." There was a breathless pause. Lila felt the thump of her heart falling like a hammer. Would Scott say goodnight and leave abruptly? Lila had never heard anyone turn him down before this moment. He met Elizabeth's dark eyes and a sort of challenge passed between them as they looked steadily at each other. Then Scott smiled and Lila thought, it's like watching ice melt in the sunshine. He touched Elizabeth's shoulder. "Of course I'll stay," he said gallantly. "Thank you for the invitation. We can go to the club another time." Lila hurried to the kitchen to help serve dinner. Scott was really a human being, she thought in amazement. All the girls at the bank thought he was a computer without a heart or a soul. A moment later Elizabeth came in. "Whew!" Johnny wiped his head. "That was putting the top man on the spot. I could see little Lila collecting her unemployment insurance." "Thanks, Elizabeth," Lila murmured. "I wouldn't have let Norman and Johnny down for all the jobs in Skylark." "No, we wouldn't! And we didn't!" Elizabeth said. "Now that's over, let's have dinner. I think Steven should ask the blessing," she added. There was a broiled T-bone steak for each one, a baked potato, string beans, cucumber and tomato salad, bran muffins and Aunt Lucinda's blueberry jam. Scott Harrington was a charming dinner guest. He carried the conversation from one moment to the next and every time Lila looked at him he was looking at Elizabeth, waiting for her approval or reply. At last he had found a woman who was a challenge to him. Lila pretended to enjoy her dinner in spite of the little sick feeling that came over her. (to be continued) DS REGRETS Her years were very few upon this earth, The curtain fell too soon upon her drama, So unexpectedly, During the second act; And we who stayed behind to carry on, Wondered if we had played our roles, As well, as wisely, As the parts were written. 610 —Ruth G. Rothe Relief Society Activities Since The Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue, stake Relief Society presidents and mission Relief Society supervisors are advised to make no further submissions of ''Notes From the Field," inasmuch as a sufficient number of Notes are already on hand for the remaining issues of the Magazine. Rose Park North Stake (Utah) Holds Visiting Teacher Convention and Luncheon, February 14, 1970 Front row, left to right: Alice A. Campbell, visiting teacher message leader, Rose Park North Stake Relief Society; Laura C. Miles, former president. Back row, left to right: Fay F. Evans, First Counselor; Faye H. Stephens, SecretaryTreasurer; Martha |. Whitehead, Second Counselor. Sister Miles reports: ''The theme of our visiting teacher convention and luncheon was 'Visiting Teaching, the Heart of Relief Society.' It was carried out in valentine decorations and favors. The program consisted of a presentation of 'The Stranger Within Our Gates,' and music provided by sixty-nine Singing Mothers under the direction of Marilyn Mecham and accompanied by Carolyn S. Wilson. 'Sister Alice Campbell has served as visiting teacher message leader since our stake was organized in 1966, and has held this position in either stake or ward for twelve years. She is a source of inspiration and strength to all of the sisters in the stake." Luana T. Gowan is the new President of Rose Park North Stake Relief Society. 611 August 1970 Moapa Stake (Nevada) Sponsors Literary Contests, Song-Writing Contest, and Singing Mothers Concert March 9, 15, 1970 Left to right: Edith Knight, winner in short story; Carrie Andersen, essay; Yvonne Lyon, cultural refinement class leader, Moapa Stake Relief Society; Lou Jeanne Lewis, poetry winner, Louise Stewart, song winner; Verna Bowler, chorister. Elaine Whipple, President, Moapa Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The winning entries in a literary contest held in our stake were printed in a lovely booklet and distributed at our Singing Mothers concert. The winning song was performed by the Singing Mothers. ''Two concerts were held because our stake is so widely scattered. The sisters had to travel great distances to practices, but we were most pleased with their cooperation and with their performances. We feel that these contests and their winners do much to encourage creativity among the sisters of our stake. Dearborn Stake (Michigan) Singing Mothers Present Spring Concert, April 3, 1970 Front row, at left: Hallie Baker, chorister, Dearborn Stake Relief Society. Seated at the piano: Joyce Michels, stake organist. Marianne Beggs, President, Dearborn Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A lovely narration tied together, fourteen musical numbers presented by our Singing Mothers in their spring concert which had the theme, 'Looks Like Spring Is Here.' ''An essay contest 'What America Means to Me,' was held in conjunction with the program, and two patriotic numbers were sung setting the stage for the reading of the winning essay by Barbara Harris of Ypsilanti Ward. Spanish Fork Stake (Utah) Thirteenth Ward Celebrates Birthday of Relief Society in Old-Fashioned Way March 17, 1970 Morgan Coombs driving Marie Huff, President, Spanish Fork Thirteenth Ward Relief Society, and her counselors Norma Jones and Gloria Anderson on a tour of the ward to extend invitations to the Relief Society birthday celebration. Virginia F. Moody, President, Spanish Fork Stake Relief Society, reports: ''One of the most unique and outstanding events in our stake was the birthday celebration in the Thirteenth Ward. The spirit of 1842 was brought to life by the horse and buggy ride to extend invitations, the authentic pioneer costumes, and the decorations and menu. 'About seventy sisters attended and were delighted with the event. Pioneer furniture and articles were used as decorations. The dinner consisted of chicken and homemade noodles with mashed potatoes, buttered carrots, homemade bread, and home churned butter. The dessert was cake topped with jelly and homemade ice cream. Honey candy and pouches of raisins were favors. An entertaining program under the direction of Clara Arnold was presented to the delight of all.'' 612 August 1970 Alpine Stake (Utah) Climaxes Sewing Classes With Fashion Show, February 19, 1970 Officers of Alpine Stake Relief Society, back row at left: Lurae Ault, homemaking leader; second from right and far right: Erma Burgess, former president; Helen Beck, Homemaking Counselor. Sister Burgess reports: ''A delightful Spring Fashion Show climaxed sewing classes conducted for the sisters of our stake. Sisters from each of the wards were taught basic sewing, alterations, and pattern fitting. Similar classes will be taught in the wards with these sisters as instructors. '"'A clever narration was presented while background music augmented the dresses of well-designed, modest spring frocks being modeled. The clothing ranged from dressy dresses to mother-daughter fashions." Helen O. Beck is the new President of Alpine Stake Relief Society. Murray Stake (Utah) Presents ''Fashions for Teens and Queens," March 14, 1970 Jacqueline Geddes and daughters Debbie and Lori model while LoyDece Jones, stake homemaking leader, narrates. Belva J. Petersen, President, Murray Stake Relief Society reports: ''The stake Relief Society sponsored a luncheon and fashion show which was most popular with the 360 who were in attendance. The ward Relief Societies assisted with the preparation and serving. 'Twenty-seven models presented school clothes, sports wear, suits, knit wear, formals, wedding dresses, and lingerie. All of the clothing was home sewed and very lovely." Monument Park West Stake (Utah) Seventh Ward Presents Relief Society Yesterday and Today March 16, 1970 Front row, left to right: Lloyd Allen, Counselor, Seventh Ward bishopric; Mary Ann Hillyard; Marcia Mansell; Afton Wood. Second row, left to right: Marie English; Marjorie Smith; Ranee Howe; Vilate Jones; Janice Thomas. Top row, left to right: Jim English; Leona Allen; Lillie Ann Bradshaw; Florence Parsons; Dorcas Seymour. Bernice D. Shea, President, Monument Park West Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Monument Park Seventh Ward of our stake presented a most successful birthday celebration with the theme 'Relief Society Yesterday and Today.' "'About 180 sisters joined with their husbands to enjoy an evening of dining and a program consisting of narration, pantomime, song, dance, and fashions. Much of the program was delightfully humorous. Lovely table decorations were done in blue and gold. Everyone who attended felt that it was an enjoyable evening. Organ music was played by Art Cochrane. '"'LaVon Burt is president of the Seventh Ward Relief Society. Director for the birthday celebration program was Gloria Hyland."' 614 August 1970 Utah Stake, Sixth Ward Relates History of the Magazine At Anniversary Celebration, March 17, 1970 Front row, left to right: Clara P. Denham, President, Utah Stake Relief Society; Margo Duckett, Education Counselor, Sixth Ward Relief Society; Gale Conant, Homemaking Counselor; Phyllis Jacobson, SecretaryTreasurer and past president; Vera S. Madsen, President; Laura Hill, past president; Orilla Groneman, past president; Catherine Lund, stake visiting teacher message leader and past president; Vilma Wride, past president. Sister Denham reports: ''Each of the wards in our stake presented an outstanding Relief Society anniversary celebration. Three of the wards used the outlined programs of Compassionate Service. The other wards chose themes based upon the history of The Relief Society Magazine. The Sixth Ward honored all former ward presidents. "The history of the Magazine was related. Stories from the Magazine were retold, and several songs were presented about the Magazine. The hall was decorated with lovely spring flowers in blue and gold. The menu consisted of recipes from the Magazine, with reference to where they could be found."' Sevier Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present '"'Come Unto Me," and Perform at Conference, March 12, 15, 1970 Seated in front, left to right: Astrid Jenson, chorister, Sevier Stake Relief Society; Paulma Pearson, organ accompanist; Marva Cowley, stake organist, who accompanied on the piano. Edna J. Haynie, President, Sevier Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A group of seventy Singing Mothers presented the lovely musical production 'Come Unto Me.' Everyone who attended felt that it was a most uplifting and spiritual presentation. "After seeing the performance our stake president requested that the Singing Mothers present three numbers at stake conference. This was a thrill to the sisters as Elder Alvin R. Dyer and Sister Dyer were present at the conference."' Shelley Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Holds Singing Mothers Concert and Cultural Fair March 25, 1970 Bonita Kelley, President, Shelley Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We were thrilled with the number of entries and the outstanding talents displayed at our Cultural Arts Fair held in conjunction with our Singing Mothers Concert. Chairman of the event was Deona Kirkham, Education Counselor. There were ninety-eight Singing Mothers under the direction of Janet Searle and accompanied by Cheryl Barney and Vita Dye. Our Homemaking Counselor, Mary Crofts, wrote the narration depicting the theme 'Strength of the Nation Lies in the Home.' 'Many paintings, hobbies, writings, ceramics, woodwork, and other arts were displayed. Entries were accepted from the brethren as well as the sisters. Dorothy Fielding, cultural refinement class leader, was responsible. For this part of the event. Refreshments were served to more than 600 people." 616 August 1970 Sanpete North Stake (Utah) Presents ''Mothers of Men'' to Honor Visiting Teachers, April 9, 1970 Front row, left to right: Glenda Staker, cultural refinement class leader, Sanpete North Stake Relief Society; Celestia J. Taylor, member, General Board of Retief Society; Ethel Ericksen, chorister, Sanpete North Stake Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Shirley Black, visiting teacher message leader; Eda Anderson, Spiritual living class leader. Louise B. Johansen, President, Sanpete North Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The theme of our visiting teacher convention this year was 'The Family—Strength of the Church.' The skit entitled 'Mothers of Men,' written by Celestia J. Taylor, was presented to the 427 visiting teachers and their partners. It was a special honor to have Sister Taylor attending, along with Sister Anna B. Hart, formerly a member of the General Board. 'Sister Taylor told of how she had been inspired to write the skit, and encouraged the sisters to make visiting teaching a way to help the mothers strengthen the home. Leland E. Anderson, stake patriarch from Provo, stressed the responsibilities of the priesthood in strengthening the home. Several appropriate musical numbers were performed. 'A special display of Magazine posters and bazaar items were viewed while refreshments were served."' 618 * * % * * % % * Lesson Department ESCESAESETESE ESE SS SPIRITUAL LIVING % * % Pearl of Great Price: | % % AY * AK AK 6 2K 2K 2K KK KKK KK KK Lesson 2 The Doctrine of the Godhead Reading Assignment: Books of Moses and Abraham Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1971 OBJECTIVE: To assist each Latter-day Saint woman better to fulfill her purpose in life by assuring her that God revealed to Adam a true knowledge of the Godhead that Adam's posterity might be reared in light and truth. INTRODUCTION The assumption of all scripture is that God lives. There is no attempt to prove that he lives, but man must rely upon what he has said about himself through his prophets. There was one occasion, however, when Korihor, the anti-Christ of The Book of Mormon, contended with the Prophet Alma over the question of God's existence. (Al. 30:19-48.) Korihor said he did not deny the existence of God, but he did not believe that there was a God, and he charged Alma with not knowing that there was a God, and he asked for a sign. (V. 48.) Alma answered: Thou hast had signs enough; will ye tempt your God? Will ye say, Show unto me a sign, when ye have the testimony of all these thy brethren, and also all the holy prophets? The scriptures are laid before thee, yea, and all things denote there is a God; yea, even the earth, and all things that are upon the face of it, yea, and its motion, yea, and also all the planets which move in their regular form do witness that there is a Supreme Creator. (Al. 30:44.) A FIRST PRINCIPLE OF THE GOSPEL The Prophet Joseph Smith said that it was the first principle of the gospel to know for a certainty the character of God and "to know that we may converse with him as one man converses with another." (Joséph Fielding 619 August 1970 Smith Comp., Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1938] p. 345.) The Savior declared in praying to his Father: "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." (John 17:3.) Class Discussion Why do you think that a knowledge of God is necessary in order for one to receive eternal life or godhood? APOSTATE DOCTRINE OF THE GODHEAD The doctrine of God as known in many of the so-called "Christian" creeds is that there is one God, without body, parts, or passions; consequently, God is a spirit only. The Nicene Creed, formulated in the year 325, declared that there is one God, yet there are three Gods. An excerpt from that creed illustrates this doctrine: "So the Father is God, the Son is God, and the Holy Ghost is God, and yet there are not three Gods but one God." (James E. Talmage. The Articles of Faith [Boston: University Press, 1890], p. 48.) Latter-day Saint belief in the Godhead is expressed in the first Article of Faith, as follows: We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. (Article of Faith 1.) THE DOCTRINE OF THE GODHEAD RESTORED Members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have received, from the many revelations through the Prophet Joseph Smith, a true knowledge of the Godhead. The first of these revelations was the First 620 Vision, received in the spring of 1820, when Joseph Smith was a young man in his fifteenth year. The following account of this experience restored the _ true understanding of two of the three Personages in the Godhead. I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him! (Joseph Smith 2:17.) That God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ are separate beings of flesh and bone, and that the Holy Ghost, a personage of spirit, is the third member of the Godhead, was subsequently revealed. (D&C 130:22-23.) From the Pearl of Great Price we learn that there were three members known to ancient prophets. In the account of the creation, we read the following: And I, God, said unto mine Only Begotten, which was with me from the beginning: Let us make man in our image, after our likeness; and it was so. (Moses 2:26. Gen. 1:26 uses the pronoun "us" but without reference to "mine Only Begotten." See also Gen. 3:22 and Moses 4:28.) In the Book of Moses the Holy Ghost is mentioned as bearing record of the Father and the Son. (Moses 1:24; 5:9.) Men were called upon by the Holy Ghost to repent in the Adamic dispensation. (Moses 5:14.) The same power present today to baptize "with fire, and with the Holy Ghost" was operative in the days of the patriarchs. (Moses 6:66.) An explanation of Figure 7, Facsimile No. 2 in the Book of Abraham reads: "... The sign of the Holy Ghost unto Abraham " THE ETERNAL FATHER Members of the Church know that God the Eternal Father is the literal Father of the Savior Jesus Christ, who is known as his Only Begotten Son, and also of the spirits of all men. He is known as "Elohim." (Talmage, The Articles of Faith, p. 466.) Latter-day Saints are therefore commanded to pray to him, as the Lord addressed his Father: "Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name." (Matt. 6:9; 3 Ne. 20:31; D&C 18:18, 40.) About the Father of us all, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: God himself was once as we are now, and is an exalted man, and sits enthroned in yonder heavens! That is the great secret. If the veil were rent today, and the great God who holds this world in its orbit, and who upholds all worlds and all things by his power, was to make himself visible,—I say, if you were to see him today, you would see him like a man in form—like yourselves in all the person, image, and very form as a man; for Adam was created in the very fashion, image and likeness of God, and received instruction from, and walked, talked and conversed with him, as one man talks and communes with another. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 345.) Class Discussion What significance does the above concept of the Father have for you? THE FATHER TESTIFIES OF CHRIST Of the several instances in the scriptures when God, the Eternal Father, testified of his Son Jesus Christ, four of these times are recorded in the New Testament. (Matt. 3:15-17; Luke 0:22; Matt. 17:1-9; John 12: 23-30.) The Book of Mormon account was on the occasion of the resurrected Savior's appearLesson Department ance to the Nephites. (3 Ne. 11:7.) In our dispensation, the Pearl of Great Price attests to the fact that the Father recognized the authority of his Son Jesus Christ when he said to Joseph Smith: "This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!" (Joseph Smith 2:17.) Elder James E. Talmage pointed out the following regarding some of the ancient prophets: Unto Adam, Enoch, Noah, Abraham and Moses the Father revealed Himseif, attesting the Godship of the Christ, and the fact that the Son was the Chosen Savior of mankind." (James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ [Boston: University Press, 1915], p. 39; see Moses 186931288; 2:1; 472, 3; 6:67; 7:36, 3By 47, 53-59; 8:16, 19, 23, 24; Abraham 3:22- 28.) JESUS CHRIST AND THE OLD TESTAMENT PERIOD A Bible dictionary points out that the name Jehovah is one of the names of God (Exod. 17: 15), and out of reverence for the divine name, the Jews, around 300 B. C., used Adonai or Lord. Thus in the King James Bible "Lord" is used generally for the name of God. (John D. Davis, The Westminster Dictionary of the Bible, revised by Henry Snyder Gehman [Philadelphia: Westminster Press, 1944], p. 287.) In a modern revelation, the voice of Jesus Christ is described as "the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father." (D&C 110:3-4.) This identification of Jesus Christ of the New Testament with the Lord of the Old Testament period is clearly indicated in the theol- 621 August 1970 ogy of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. With the understanding of what God has revealed in this dispensation concerning Jesus Christ, Elder B. H. Roberts, a member of the First Council of Seventy of this dispensation, in reply to a learned rabbi's contention that Jehovah, God of the Old Testament, is the Redeemer of mankind, and, therefore, there was no need for Jesus Christ (Isa. 43:11), called attention to the fact that the Bible prophets foresaw the time when "The mighty God, The _ everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace," would be born. (Isa. 9:6.) Then Elder Roberts proceeded to show wherein the Prophet Isaiah predicted that Jehovah would have a body, for he was to arise from the dead, as the Lord said: Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust: for thy dew [sorrow] is as the dew of herbs [it will pass away], and the earth shall cast out the dead. (Isa. 26:19.) Therefore, if Jehovah is to be born, live, die, and then be resurrected, and if only he can save and redeem man from sin, then the God of the Old Testament becomes Jesus Christ of the New Testament—they are the same. THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE At least twenty-five times in the Book of Moses Jesus Christ is identified as the Only Begotten of the Father, even he who shall come "in the meridian of time." (Moses 7:46.) It was Enoch who pled with God, "I ask thee, O Lord, in the name of thine Only Begotten, even Jesus Christ, 622 that thou wilt have mercy upon Noah and his seed...." (Moses 7:50.) Jehovah saved Abraham from being sacrificed on an Egyptian altar. (Abr. 1:15-16.) In_ blessing Abraham and his posterity, the Lord said: "My name is Jehovah, and I know the end from the beginning; therefore my hand shall be over thee." (Abr. 2:8.) THE BOOK OF MORMON The Nephite scriptures testify that God who led Lehi and his party to the American Continent and inspired the prophets to lead them throughout their history was Jesus Christ. The brass plates brought from Jerusalem by Lehi contained some prophecies of Zenock, Neum, and Zenos. These prophets testified, said Nephi, about the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who would be crucified and buried in a sepulcher, and of the judgments that would come upon _ those at Jerusalem who had rejected the God of Israel. (1 Ne. 19:10- 14.) King Benjamin prophesied of the time when the Lord would be born among men, of his ministry, and of his great suffering for mankind, and that he should be called the Son of God, the Creator, even Jesus' Christ. (Mosiah 3:5-11.) It was the Savior—our Lord Jesus Christ on the American Continent anciently—who said that he was the one who gave the law of Moses and that he had fulfilled the law. (3 Ne. 15:4-5.) The importance of the doctrine that Jesus Christ is God of the Old Testament and also the New Testament was indicated by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., when he said: You will hear... Not infrequently that the God of the Old Testament is different from the God of the New Testament; that the God of the Old Testament has evolved into the God of the New—rather a rapid evolution, if it were true.... When that doctrine is reduced down, it means this: that God is what man conceives him to be; that man creates his God, instead of God creating man. No greater falsehood can be promulgated than that. (Conference Report, September 1950, p. 100.) CHRIST'S WORK Jesus Christ is the Only Begotten, the Son of the Eternal Father in the flesh and the Firstborn in the spirit. He is known as the Creator, for under the direction of the Father, he created worlds. During his mortal life he became man's example as the perfect being, but as President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., said: He came here; he restored the Gospel; he fulfilled the law of Moses; he did away with sacrifice; he declared to the people on this continent that thereafter their sacrifice was to be ''a broken heart and a contrite spirit." (III Nephi 9:20) He lived, he died, was crucified, lay in the tomb, was resurrected, and by that act of sacrifice he made certain that every man and woman born to this earth will be resurrected. This was his work as Redeemer. Now I want merely to leave with you this thought: That Jesus, the Christ, was a God before he came here, was a member-of the. Trinity. He was divinely conceived. He: was half-Deity while he was here, but shackled with mortality. That from here he went to the other side to resume his position in the Trinity, again resuming his full Godship. ("Jesus The Christ—Creator and Redeemer," BYU Speeches of the Year, May 22, 1956.) Jesus Christ is the Mediator between God and man. He is Lesson Department our Advocate who defends or pleads for us. (Luke 22:31-32; John 17:11-26.) He is our Atoner whereby obedient men may return to God's presence. Class Discussion Why is the mission of Jesus Christ as Savior and Redeemer his principal function? GIVER OF REVELATION In his role as God of the Old Testament period, Jesus Christ or Jehovah; after the fall of Adam and his expulsion from the Garden of Eden; communicated with his prophets upon the earth. (D&C 76:12-14.) The Eternal Father has appeared to men on only few occasions, and then to introduce and bear record of his Only Begotten Son. President Joseph Fielding Smith, in speaking of the First Vision received by Joseph Smith, made the following observation concerning the importance of this truth: Had Joseph Smith come home from the grove and declared that the Father and the Son appeared to him and that the Father spoke to him and answered his question while the Son stood silently by, then we could have accepted the story as a fraud. Joseph Smith was too young and inexperienced to know this at the time, but he made no mistake, and his story was in perfect harmony with divine truth, with the divine law that Christ is the Mediator between God and man. (Bruce R. McConkie, Comp., Doctrines of Salvation [Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1954], 1:28.) Class Discussion Discuss President Smith's statement about Joseph Smith and the First Vision. JESUS CHRIST AS "FATHER" The revelations teach that Jesus Christ is both the Father 623 August 1970 -and the Son. He is the Son of God by birth into this life as well as being the Firstborn in the spirit: he is the Father by reason of the work that he has performed. (Eth. 3:14, Mosiah 15:1-4.) The First Presidency (Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, and Charles W. Penrose), in 1916, wrote that Jesus Christ is the Father in these ways: (1) Creator of worlds (Eth. 4:7; Alma 11:38, 39; Mosiah 15:4); (2) the "Father" of those who abide in his gospel (Mosiah 15:10-13; D&C 50:41; 25:1; 11:28-30; 35:1-2; Moses 7:1); (3) the "Father" by divine investiture of authority. The Eternal Father placed his name upon his Son, and, therefore, '"'so far as power, authority, and Godship are concerned His words and acts were and are those of the Father." (The Articles of Faith, p. 471.) The First Presidency continued with this counsel: None of these considerations, however, can change in the least degree the solemn fact of the literal relationship of Father and Son between Elohim and Jesus Christ. THE HOLY GHOST The Holy Ghost, the third member of the Godhead, is the testator or witness of the Father and the Son. By his power men may know the existence and divinity of the other members of the Godhead. (Moses 1:24; 5:9; 6:59-60.) The Holy Ghost as a member of the Godhead is a personage of spirit; that is, he is as a man in form but not tabernacled with flesh and bone. (Talmage, The 624 Articles of Faith, p. 42; D&C 130: 22-23.) Moses, the writer of the Book of Genesis, used the pronouns "us" and "our" when the Lord said: "And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness." (Gen. 1:26.) In a sermon on the plurality of Gods, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: I have always declared God to be a distinct personage, Jesus Christ a separate and distinct personage from God the Father, and that the Holy Ghost was a distinct personage and a Spirit: and these three constitute three distinct personages and three Gods.... We have three Gods and they are -plural.... (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1950], 6:474.) CONCLUSION Latter-day Saints should appreciate the primary functions of the three personages in the Godhead, as given in the following from the Prophet Joseph Smith: Everlasting covenant was made between three personages before the organization of this earth, and relates to their dispensation of things to men on the earth; these personages, according to Abraham's record, are called God the first, the Creator; God the second, the Redeemer; and God the third, the Witness or Testator. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 190.) There exists among the members of the Godhead a oneness that is perfect. As Elder Parley P. Pratt, an apostle of this dispensation, said: "Their oneness consists of a oneness of spirit, intelligence, attributes, knowledge or power." (Parley P. Pratt, Key to Theology [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1965], p. 42.) VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES—Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71) Message 2—Gratitude Northern Hemisphere: First Week, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, April 1971 OBJECTIVE: To remember that gratitude blesses both giver and receiver. "Thanksgiving for a former doth invite God to bestow a second benefit." (Robert Herrick, Thanksgiving, The Home Book of Quotations, ed. Burton Stevenson [New York: Dodd Mead & Company, 1967], p. 824.) "Gratitude is the memory of the heart." (J. B. Massieu, "Letter to Abbé Sicard," The Pocket Book of Quotations, ed. Henry Davidoff [New York: Pocket Books, 1968], p. 122.) Ancient Samaria was built on a hill that lies in a basin surrounded by mountains. The surrounding countryside takes its name from this former capital city of the ten tribes of Israel. And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off: And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God. And fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this stranger. And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath made thee whole. (Luke 17:11-19.) The Samaritans were hated by the Jews of Jesus' day. Descendants of apostate Jews and alien peoples, brought into the area by Alexander the Great, a Macedonian Greek, had adopted a corrupt form of the Judaic religion. Consequently, they were shunned by the Jews and enmity grew between them. Jesus, however, did not share their prejudices. Even though we are told that once the Samaritans would not receive him into one of their villages (Luke 9:51-56), he showed on other occasions that he judged a Samaritan on his faith and worth as an individual, and not as a member of a despised group. In the instance of the lepers, Jesus showed compassion to the Samaritan as well as to the others. This scorned man alone, this stranger, returned to kneel at Jesus' feet and give him thanks. Jesus' response to this expression of gratitude was to teach him the great lesson that faith had made him whole. 625 August 1970 We may well ask ourselves, Are we like the Samaritan, taking the time to express our thanks, or are we like the nine—too busy, too preoccupied, lacking gratitude? Not long ago a man, observing his garbage being collected, took the time to leave his warm house on a cold day and tell these men how much he appreciated their services. Their pleased astonishment showed how seldom someone bothered. As the men stood talking together, it was evident that all felt rewarded. How can we express gratitude to our Heavenly Father, our earthly parents, our spouses, our children, our brothers and sisters, our friends, our bishops, our teachers, our stake presidents, our stake boards, and all those who preside over and help us? If we look about us, we may be surprised at the number to whom we owe thanks. Many make our lives smoother and more pleasant. Do they not deserve thanks? As one expresses his gratitude, he knows within his heart that in the warmth of the ensuing relationship the giver and the receiver are blessed. HOMEMAKING—A Lovelier You Discussion 2—Church Standards in Dress Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, April 1971 OBJECTIVE: To show that one can be attractively dressed and still maintain Church standards of modesty. INTRODUCTION The Prophet Joseph Smith believed that if members of the Church were taught correct principles, they would govern themselves accordingly. All faithful Latter-day Saint women should be aware of "'correct principles" when it comes to selecting and wearing their clothes. We might well ask ourselves how we would dress for a social function if we knew that a prophet of the Lord would be present. 626 WHAT ARE CHURCH STANDARDS OF DRESS? There are those who would like Church standards of dress spelled out in detail for them. But is it not sufficient to quote what our prophets have told us and then be guided by their counsel? Brigham Young spoke to the members of the Church about their clothes, saying, The daughters of Israel should understand what fashions they should have, without borrowing from the impure and unrighteous.... Have your dresses neat and comely, and conduct yourselves, in the strictest sense of the word, in chastity. (Discourses of Brigham Young, comp. John A. Widtsoe [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1966], pp. 214-16.) The Lord spoke to his people in Joseph Smith's day concerning — their dress as follows: And again, thou shalt not be proud in thy heart; let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own hands; And let all things be done in cleanliness before me. (D&C 42:40-41.) Here we are given three timeless standards: simplicity, creativity, and cleanliness. We are not expected to make everything we wear, although the Relief Society sewing courses have enabled many women to achieve the satisfaction of creating their own apparel and enjoying "the beauty of the work of thine own hands." But the basic standards are still applicable. The Prophet Joseph Smith, the Prophet Brigham Young, and our present day prophets have all emphasized that the key to proper dress is modesty, which is defined by one dictionary as "Freedom from _ showiness_ or ostentation. Propriety or decorum in dress." (Funk & Wagnalls Standard College Dictionary, [New York: Funk & Wagnalls, 1966].) Any clothing that is designed to provoke in_ the beholder unwholesome thoughts of envy, lust, or derision (as with freakish or far-out clothes) is clearly unsuitable for Latterday Saints. Our apparel should be clean, attractive in a wholesome way, and in good taste according to the best current standards. Lesson Department SELECTING OUR CLOTHES Clothes speak a very special language. They tell the world whether you are slovenly or careful, modest or immodest, whether you have self-respect or are inconsiderate. Clothes reflect our personality—whether we are quiet, outgoing, reserved, fragile, athletic. Our selection of clothes reflects our personal standards of behavior. Discussion Questions 1. When we choose our clothes, do we remember who we are? 2. Do we realize we are setting an example for our young people? 3. Do we appreciate ourselves, not in an egotistical way, but in a wholesome, constructive way, recognizing our own worth and assuring our proper place in the world? BASIC PRINCIPLES FOR CHOOSING CLOTHES In choosing our clothes, it is well to keep these principles in mind: 1. Fit and Comfort. Do not buy any garment which is too tight or otherwise ill-fitting. If a garment does not feel right for you, don't wear it. You will not look well if you cannot sit, stand, and move freely without embarrassment, no matter how stylish your costume is. 2. Suitability. At all times wear clothing suitable to your age, your size, the occasion, and the weather. 3. Modesty. In_ clothes selection, as in all aspects of life, you must remember to be an example of modesty. You should never be a slave to the fashion of the day, but lke a wise woman, know how to adapt what is currently in style to conform to Latter-day Saint standards. If these three points are kept in mind, you will always look and feel well dressed. 627 August 1970 Discussion Questions 1. Who decides the fashion of the day? 2. Do we permit the fashion of the moment to have more influence over us than the standards of dress approved by our leaders? CONCLUSION You are well dressed when your clothes are suitable to your age, the occasion, your position in life, your particular personality, figure, and personal coloring, but most' of all to the standards of modesty set forth by the prophets. If you are truly well dressed, people will pay more attention to your personality than to your person. Remember that as a representative of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, you have been counseled to be "in the world, but not of the world." (See John 17:14-16.) When you dress according to these standards, you will not only merit the pride, respect, and admiration of your husband but also of your children and friends. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 2—God's Morality vs. Satan's Morality Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, April 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help Latter-day Saint women become more aware of the presence and power of Satan in the modern world by giving guidelines and methods for distinguishing between God's morality and Satan's morality. INTRODUCTION For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so, my first-born in the wilderness, rghteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad. (2 Ne. 2:11.) It is abundantly clear from the scriptures and from the writings and sermons of our Latter-day prophets that Satan is a real personage of spirit, that he and his followers are upon the earth, and that Satan's purpose is to thwart God's work by bringing the souls of men to destruction. 628 It is also clear that this opposing influence is permitted to move among men to provide the quality of opposition which makes it necessary for us to struggle with ourselves. Through this struggle, we build the kind of strength essential within those of us who would ultimately hope to exercise the powers of creation with the attendant responsibilities. Brigham Young expanded upon Lehi's words, which are quoted above, when he said that "Sin is co-eternal with righteousness, for it must needs be that there is an opposition in all things." (Discourses of Brigham Young, ed. John A. Widtsoe [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1941], p. 78; Journal of Discourses, Vol. 10, pp. 2-3.) This suggests that we need to develop the ability to recognize and deal with opposing forces and evil influences beyond the term of our mortal probation. It is_ here, however, that we are tested and that we develop the strength to resist evil as well as the desire to exercise and support righteousness, not in rigid, defensive, selfrighteous ways, but in a mature, open, secure manner which reflects love rather than hate and fear. It would appear from the Savlor's teachings that preparing oneself and a family for life in the celestial kingdom, with all the creative potential implied, involves more than avoiding sinful behavior. The broad definition of morality depicted in the preceding social relations lesson stressed the importance of developing compassion, love, and nonjudging acceptance of others as a part of becoming truly moral. The Savior said it very simply: "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as_ thyself." (Matt. 23:39.) DISTINGUISHING BETWEEN GOD'S MORALITY AND SATAN'S MORALITY In a dictionary definition, the word "moral" is characterized by "excellence in what pertains to practice or conduct; right and proper.... Conforming to a standard of what is good and right. (Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary [Springfield, Mass.: G. & C. Merriam Co., 1961], p. 548.) Lesson Department The essential difference between God's morality and Satan's morality became apparent in the Garden of Eden. Satan's view of what was right and good revolved around the pleasure of the forbidden fruit and the advantages of simply knowing good and evil. God also placed value on knowing of good and evil, indeed saw such knowledge and resulting experience as a prime reason for placing man upon the earth. Perhaps the essential difference between the two views of morality is that God's morality includes the principle of assuming responsibility for one's own behavior as one encounters opportunities for good and evil. God's morality stresses virtuous, righteous, ethical behavior, while Satan's morality ends with self-knowledge, experience, and the freedom to know. Lacking _ responsible, ethical, excellent behavior, Satan's morality becomes a tragic distortion of what is_ truly moral. The whole point of free agency is the emphasis upon and the opportunity for freely chosen, responsible behavior which conforms with what God has revealed as producing eternal growth. Lucifer felt so strongly about his plan of forced good behavior and its rejection that he went to war against God. Lucifer failed in his effort to deprive us of our free agency and to relieve us of responsibility for our own behavior. His only remaining hope is to deceive and beguile. The focus of this lesson is on the adversary's efforts to deceive. Class Discussion In what essentials do God's morality and Satan's morality differ? 629 August 1970 WHAT IS SATAN'S MORALITY? The scriptures say that "the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made." (Gen. 3:1.) In this connection, Brigham Young described Satan's style as follows: The adversary presents his principles and arguments in the most approved style, and in the most winning tone, attended with the most graceful attitudes; and he is very careful to ingratiate himself into the favor of the powerful and influential of mankind, uniting himself with popular parties, floating into offices of trust and emolument by pandering to popular feeling, though it should seriously wrong and oppress the innocent. (Discourses of Brigham Young, p. 69; JD, 2:238.) That the adversary has an organization is evident from Joseph Smith's comments: "In relation to the Kingdom of God, the devil always sets up his kingdom at the very same time in opposition to God." (Joseph Fielding Smith, comp., Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith [Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1956], p. 365.) Satan's morality today seems to be a more vigorous attempt to sell immoral behavior in the name of that which is rational and moral. Satan's current push seems to be less on selling pleasure in favor of selling what is "good" and "right." Look for the half truths and distortions in the following hypothetical advice given by Satan to our youth: (1) Take drugs and you will learn marvelous things about the creative potential of your own mind and the marvelous capacity of your body to experience pleasure. 630 (2) The old rules governing sexual morality are obsolete, unrealistic, unnecessary, and damaging to your fine sensitivities. When your cultural traditions tell you to exercise responsibility in your sexual conduct, what has really been meant all along has been to be intimate only with that person whom you really love and with whom you have meaningful emotional ties. Legal ties and responsibilities are a mere form which are not important. Your feelings and intentions are the important thing. (3) Your body is beautiful and that which is beautiful is good to behold. Dress to emphasize that which is both good and beautiful and this is one way of demonstrating your freedom from old rules of modesty which were irrational and repressive devices invented by your forefathers to manage their fear of their own good impulses. (4) Your forefathers and your fathers have recognized and sometimes effectively used protest as a valid tool for achieving social justice, but have never had the vision or the courage really to achieve their own noble ends. The evidence of their grotesque failures lie all around you: poverty, warfare, controllable but uncontrolled disease, exploitation, and environmental pollution. Reject their inadequate, unmanageable, and unworkable structures and strike out in new directions, with totally new techniques and political arrangements. Demonstrate your own moral courage by tearing at the very roots of the decadent society in which you live. Class Discussion What are the half truths and distortions in each of the above statements? Note the absence of any appeal to personal and socially reponsible behavior. Note the absence of any appeal to selfdiscipline, respect for the teachings and experience of the past, or any appeal to those ideals and standards of noble behavior taught by the Savior and by his prophets. Note the mingling of truth and half truth with blatantly false doctrine. In (1) nothing is said about the disadvantages of using illicit drugs nor about the relationship between self-controlled, conscious behavior and personal development. In (2) nothing is said about the qualities of commitment, loyalty, and sacrifice which are essential to building a strong and secure family. There is no real concern about the training and security of children. Mortals have codified such qualities and concerns into law and God has included them in the eternal nature of our relationships. (3) suggests that modesty is unnecessary and completely overlooks the fact that men's passions are aroused by immodest dress, and disregards such socially tested concepts as propriety and good taste. (4) grossly underrates the accomplishments of the past and overlooks the responsiblity not to change or destroy one form until something more workable and of more value to people has been developed. Chaos, anarchy, and disaster are courted in the name of making society more rational and_ responsive. In view of what we know about the adversary's nature, purposes, methods, and techniques, as well as our own vulnerability and imperfect knowledge, we need all the help we can get in distinguishing truth from error as well as in developing the will to apply true principles in our lives. HELP FROM THE HOLY GHOST A most essential source of guidance in discerning that which comes to us from Satan, is the influence of the Holy Ghost. Jesus said that the Comforter would guide us into all truth. (John 16:13.) The scriptures also make it clear that the only way we can come to know the things of God is by and through the Spirit of God. (1 Cor. 2:10-14.) If we are concerned about disLesson Department tinguishing between truth and error, between God's morality and Satan's morality, our attention can most profitably be focused on the prerequisites for having our lives illuminated by the Holy Ghost. All members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are given the gift of the Holy Ghost through the laying on of hands at the time they are confirmed members of the Church. This ordinance, formally and distinctly, gives us claim to help and guidance from this source in our efforts to live full and righteous lives. Receiving such help is, however, not automatic. Effort is required in the form of faith and desire. Class Discussion What if our faith is weak or the problem at hand has involved personal sin and the breaking of a specific commandment? In this condition, can we still legitimately ask for inspiration, strength, and the power of discernment from the Holy Ghost? Yes, if we have the desire, take steps to strengthen our faith, and consciously develop a repentant attitude and _ behavior. The kind of faith which leads to everlasting: life can begin as a small particle, even so small that it is only a desire to believe. (See Al. 32:26-43.) Latter-day Saint women have a great deal to bring to each other in their efforts to build faith and seek wisdom. The Lord has said, And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith. (D&C 88:118.) There are many other actions available to us for strengthening faith. Some of them are fasting and prayer, attending Church meetings, accepting responsibilities in the Church, freely giving 631 August 1970 compassionate service to others, bearing and hearing testimonies, and consulting with the home teacher, the bishop or branch president about troubling questions and problems. HELP FROM STUDY OF THE SCRIPTURES Our ability te distinguish between good and evil and between truth and error can be greatly facilitated by regular reading of the scriptures. The Latter-day Saint woman who is intimately acquainted with the scriptures knows a great deal about how the Lord has dealt with people in the past, will know more about what is doctrinally sound, and will be more clear about what the Lord expects of her. Through regular study of the scriptures, one can develop good judgment concerning what is right and what is wrong as well as a great desire to choose that which is good and right. SUMMARY Satan and his hosts are as real in the modern world as they have ever been. Satan's doctrine has been labeled as a form of "morality" because it is designed to deceive: One of his major strategies is to incorporate parts of true principles wherever: there is an opportunity for distorting their impact. This lesson suggests that Satan's "morality" can be recognized by the absence of an appeal to that kind of self-sacrificing, self-disciplined, responsible behavior which isin harmony with the Lord's commandments and the teachings of his prophets. The help of the Holy Ghost is essential in discerning the more subtle forms of Satan's "morality." cathe SOLACE FROM A BOOK In a crowded room, | heard the babble of many voices, Saw familiar and unfamiliar faces, yet— | was lonely. | walked beside a rushing brook, Felt spray as it tripped on rock and crag To nourish spawning moss. Again | was lonely. | followed a path through wooded hills, Saw sunlight play with shadows, Heard song of bird, hum of bee, still— | was lonely. Then | found a quiet niche, Opened 'a book, and friends came forth To sing, play, dance, weep, and live. Now | am nevery lonely! 632 —Lila L. Smith CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 2—A Thankful Heart Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, April 1971 OBJECTIVE: To encourage within a woman a spirit of faith and gratitude to God and an attitude of reverence and worship through poetry and the other arts. We thank Thee, gracious Lord of Hosts, For all Thy generous hand Within the circle of our coasts, Show'rs on the teeming land. We thank Thee for the budding flower In summer glory drest, A revelation of the power Through nature manifest. —Theodore E. Curtis ART "Sunflowers" by Claude Monet (1840-1926) French, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York. (Reproduction of Painting, page 448, June 1970) COMMENTARY We are grateful to the great artists in every field for what they reveal to us of the beauty of life that surrounds us and for the truth that is an essential part of what they seek to portray. During the latter quarter of the nineteenth century in France, a group of artists led by Claude Monet (sometimes called the pacemaker of impressionism) were instrumental in discovering or inventing a different approach to painting now called impressionism. These artists were largely concerned with capturing the momentary, the transitory, the spontaneous instant, and fixing it permanently on the canvas. Their great interest was to discover a way to represent the vibrancy of light, color, and atmosphere. Instead of mixing the colors on the palette and then placing them in the space on the canvas, they felt a greater feeling of vibrant light would occur if spots of contrasting colors were placed next to each other on the canvas, then viewed at a distance, allowing the colors to mix in the eye of the viewer. The sensation received was very exciting, more real, and similar to the instant sensation a viewer might have of a first impression. If you will look closely at the juxtaposed spots of color in the painting ''Sunflowers'' you will see the contrasting colors placed next to each other—red against green, yellow next to violet, orange next to blue. The impressionists revelled in the beautiful shimmer of reflected light and the richness of nature. Like ''Sunflowers,'' their works are almost a hymn of praise to the beauty of light. I 633 August 1970 In Volume 1 of Out of the Best Books (p. 49) we wrote: "Through the centuries men of literature, and especially poets, have traditionally been champions of the spirit and defenders of the faith." In Volume 4 (p. 179) we said: "Music delights us when we are happy, comforts us when we mourn, gives courage when we are frightened, stirs us when we are apathetic, sustains us when we are soul-troubled, and fills us with religious adoration when we worship." As we ponder the noble painting and sculpture of Michelangelo and other great masters, or contemplate the messages of our Latter-day Saint artists (for example, "Life from Death," reprinted with commentary in Volume 3, pp. 240-42 of Out of the Best Books), we realize the visual arts can likewise stimulate and deepen our spiritual responses. Throughout the five volumes of Out of the Best Books are found many stories, poems, essays, and discussions which express faith or relate to it in some significant way. In fact, three sections are centered on the subject of faith: pp. 47-107 of Volume 1, pp. 239-82 of Volume 3, and pp. 67-102 of Volume 4. In addition, many individual selections spread throughout the five volumes, also pertain to faith in one way or another. It is not the purpose of this lesson to reexamine all of those past selections. Rather, the purpose here is to bring together from the five volumes a few choice selections, especially some lovely short poems, and review these as expressions of reverence and worship. The month of November, when we celebrate Thanksgiving in the United States and all the world is looking forward to Christmas, seems a particularly appropriate month for such a lesson. Any or all of the following poems may be reviewed as especially suitable for study in this lesson and for use wherever short poems of faith and inspiration may be appropriate. "The Lamb" by William Blake, vol. 1, pp. 91-92. "T Never Saw a Moor" by Emily Dickinson, vol. 1, p. 93. "Little Jesus" by Francis Thompson, vol. 1, pp. 94-95. "The Windhover" by Gerard Manley Hopkins, vol. 1, pp. 96-101. ""God's Grandeur" by Gerard Manley Hopkins, vol. 1, pp. 102-4. "Still Falls the Rain" by Edith Sitwell, vol. 1, pp. 105-7. "The Hound of Heaven" by Francis Thompson, vol. 1, pp. 343-51. Sonnet 146 by William Shakespeare, vol. 1, pp. 453-54. "Death Be Not Proud" by John Donne, vol. 1, pp. 455-56. "And Death Shall Have No Dominion" by Dylan Thomas, vol. 1, pp. 457-58. "The Leaden Echo" and The Golden Echo" by Gerard Manley Hopkins, vol. 2, pp. 347-50. Sonnet 19 "On His Blindness" by John Milton, vol. 3, pp. 108-9. "Lead, Kindly Light" by John Henry Newman, vol. 3, pp. 149-50. "To My Dear and Loving Husband" by Anne Bradstreet, vol. 3, p. 226. "First Lesson" by Philip Booth, vol. 3, pp. 252-53. Sonnet III by George Santayana, vol. 3, pp. 254-55. "The Tide of Faith" by George Eliot, vol. 3, pp. 276-77. "A Good Night" by Francis Quarles, vol. 3, pp. 278-79. Psalms 8 and 23, vol. 4, p. 71. 634 Lesson Department "Crossing the Bar" by Alfred Lord Tennyson, vol. 4, pp. 78-79. "Uphill" by Christina Rossetti, vol. 4, p. 80. "Conversations at Midnight" by Edna St. Vincent Millay, vol. 4, pp. 223-24. In addition to the poems listed above, readers may wish to reread Joseph Mazzini's essay "Faith and the Future" (vol. 3, pp. 248-51). William Jennings Bryan's essay "Faith" (vol. 3, pp. 256-61), and William James's essay "The Will to Believe" (vol. 3, pp. 280-82). We also draw attention to the introductory comments for the section on "The Comfort of Faith" in Volume 4 with the powerful statements on faith by William Faulkner, Presi- | dent John F. Kennedy, and Thomas Carlyle (pp. 69-70). And for any who may have missed it, we reprint here from Volume 4 (pp. 14-15) the profoundly beautiful excerpt from John Donne's "Meditation 17," in which he expresses so superbly his faith in God and his feeling for human interdependence: All mankind is of one author, and is one volume; when one man dies, one chapter is not torn out of the book, but translated into a better language; and every chapter must be so translated. God employs several translators; some pieces are translated by age, some by sickness, some by war, some by justice; but God's hand is in every translation, and his hand shall bind up all our scattered leaves again for that library where every book shall lie open to one another. No man is an island entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main. If a clod be washed away by the sea, Europe is the less, as well as if a promontory were, as well as if a manor of thy friend's or of thine own were. Any man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind, and therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee. Neither can we call this a begging of misery, or a borrowing of misery, as though we were not miserable enough of ourselves but must fetch in more from the next house, in taking upon us the misery of our neighbors. Truly it were an excusable covetousness if we did, for affliction is a treasure, and scarce any man hath enough of it. No man hath affliction enough that is not matured and ripened by it and made fit for God by that affliction.... Tribulation is a treasure in the nature of it, but it is not current money in the use of it, except we get nearer and nearer our home, heaven, by it. Another man may be sick too, and sick to death, and this affliction may lie in his bowels as gold in a mine and be of no use to him; but this bell that tells me of his affliction digs out and applies that gold to me, if by this consideration of another's danger I take mine own into contemplation, and so secure myself by making my recourse to my God, who is our only security. Discussion Questions 1. What responsibilities of compassion, understanding, and happiness are suggested by Donne's statement, "no man is an island''? 2. How can we be "matured" and "ripened" and "made fit for God" by affliction and tribulation? Some readers may think of this great passage as prose, but it is really more poetry than prose, having compression of thought and emotion and the rich imagery of language that characterize poetry. It is intended that poets should have the main voice in this lesson on "A Thankful Heart," for it is to poetry that we turn when we want man's most appealing expressions of faith— to the lovely Psalms of David in the Old Testament, or to some of the beautiful hymns of worship (poems set to music) that we sing in our Sunday Schools and sacrament meetings, or to such poems as the ones listed earlier in this lesson. These are not the 635 August 1970 only poems of faith, reverence, and worship in Out of the Best Books, but they are perhaps the ones most firm as expressions of faith, except for selections by Browning and Wordsworth to be included in special lessons later in the year. Most of the poems in the list are beautifully lucid and will communicate with no special difficulty to all readers, particularly with the aid of the brief discussions in the books. For readers who want the challenge of more complex works, Francis Thompson's 'Hound of Heaven" and the three poems by Hopkins mentioned in the list will be especially stimulating. SUGGESTIONS TO CLASS LEADERS ON LESSON DEVELOPMENT We print here several of the shorter poems as space allows for the benefit of those readers who may not have the books: "'The Lamb"' by William Blake Little Lamb, who made thee? Dost thou know who made thee? Gave thee life, and bid thee feed By the stream and o'er the mead; Gave thee clothing of delight, Softest clothing, woolly, bright; Gave thee such a tender voice, Making all the vales rejoice? Little Lamb, who made thee? Dost thou know who made thee? Little Lamb, I']l tell thee, Little Lamb, I'll tell thee. He is called by thy name, For he calls himself a Lamb, He is meek, and he is mild; He became a little child, I a child, and thou a lamb, We are called by his name. Little Lamb, God bless thee! Little Lamb, God bless thee! 636 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine ts in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2. 55 Zoned... 275 Zone3 _.-_-_..60 Zone6.__.-.85 Zone4 ___._.65 Zone7 ~~..-- 95 Zone 8__ - - -1.05 | tag DESERET FRPeEews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 fotal plectric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Lesson Department ''] Never Saw a Moor" by Emily Dickinson Buy an I never saw a moor, P. - I never saw the sea; All Grain Stone Grinding Yet know I how the heather looks, s And what a wave must be. Flour Mill Today I never spoke with God, Nor visited in Heaven; Immediate Delivery Yet certain am I of the spot As if th rt were given. 1 e cha ere given Also available: High protein wheat for use or storage. Discussion Question What common factors are found in these two poems which add to their appeal? For full information, write: Sonnet 146 by William Shakespeare a P h tre of my sinful earth oe = oor soul, the cen. Rebuke these rebel powers that thee array! Ged ag Why dost thou pine within and suffer Dept. R. S. Dearth, P. O. Box 115 Painting thy outward walls so costly gay? Tremonton, Why so large cost, having so short a lease, Utah 84337 Dost thou upon thy fading mansion spend? Openings available Shall worms, inheritors of this excess, for full or part-time Eat up thy charge? Is this thy body's end? Sales representatives. Then, soul, live thou upon thy servant's loss, And let that pine to aggravate thy store; Buy terms divine in selling hours of dross: A SOUL-TOUCHING GIFT Within be fed, without be rich no more.; So shalt thou feed on Death that feeds Proye™| on men, ur And Death once dead, there's no more |; ¢ W eda J oe dying then. V7) ( Kathy f ny Five prayers Exquisitely bound in white moire with gold lettering Discussion Question What is the central meaning of this sonnet? —_— = zl lother of the 'Brice "Lead, Kindly Light" by John Henry Newman = other of the Cfroom Lead, Kindly Light, amid the encircling His Hers Theirs gloom, — Lead Thou me on! HandKraft Art and Publishing Co. The night is dark, and | am far from na i 6323 ao Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 Lead Thou me on! Please send me ________ copies of Keep Thou my feet; | do not ask to see WEDDING PRAYERS by Kathryn Kay The distant scene—one step enough for at $1.75 each plus 25¢ postage and me. Handling for which | enclose $_ | was not ever thus, nor prayed that Thou a D M.0.0 Shouldst lead me on. —_ — | loved to choose and see my path; but _ = _ = STATE "ZIP Lead Thou me on! 637 August 1970 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR August 17-30 K HAWAII ALOHA TOUR October 8-21 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Betsey MUSIC COMPANY "Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies \ Chenezper ~ Instruments Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS-. 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 638 | loved the garish day, and, spite of fears, Pride ruled my will; remember not past years. So long Thy power hath blessed me, sure it still Will lead me on, O'er moor and fen, o'er crag and torrent, till The night is gone; And with the morn those angel faces smile Which | have loved long since, and lost awhile. Discussion Questions 1. What does the "Kindly Light" in line one symbolize? 2. What does Newman mean in line three when he says: "The night is dark and I am far from home." What is the night? Where is home? 3. What is the implication of the last line of the poem? "To My Dear and Loving Husband" by Anne Bradstreet If ever two were one, then surely we. If ever man were loved by wife, then thee; If ever wife was happy in a man, Compare with me ye women if you can. | prize thy love more than whole mines of gold, Or all the riches that the East doth hold. My love is such that rivers cannot quench, Nor ought but love from thee give recompense. Thy love is such | can no way repay; The heavens reward thee manifold, | pray. Then while we live, in love let's so persevere, That when we live no more we may live ever. These lovely poems center in both faith and gratitude. The two are inseparable. When faith is strong, we are filled with gratitude to God for all that he has given us and for the assurance of all that lies ahead. When gratitude is strong, faith follows naturally, growing richer and deeper with each thing for which we are thankful. 104 Mrs. Amanda Crum Angle 100 99 97 96 95 94 93 San Diego, California Mrs. Annie Catherine Ericksen Benson Logan, Utah Mrs. Jemima Chelnecha Damron Barron Inkom, Idaho Mrs. Anna Kristina: Nielson Busk Elsinore, Utah Mrs. Rosa Oditha Calvin Thomas Meeker, Colorado Mrs. Marcia Armstrong Jolley Provo, Utah Mrs. Gustella Wilkins Larson Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Olivia Malmquist Sandberg Montebello, California Mrs. Anna Marilla Davis Brown Provo, Utah Mrs. Hannah Encora Batty Follett Elgin, Oregon Mrs. Edith Adams Smith Centerville, Utah Mrs. Esther Sperry Farnsworth Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ida May Briles Heryford Red Bluff, California Mrs. Jane Agar Lawton Brainerd, Minnesota Mrs. Isabella King Armstrong Stacey Simpson Laramie, Wyoming Mrs. Josephine Rasmussen Atwood Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Roberta Flake Clayton Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Georgiana Hill Hawkins Winnemucca, Nevada Mrs. Alice Speer Stice Humphrey Lehi, Utah Mrs. Ann Martine McCormick Fredonia, Arizona 92 90 Mrs. Charlotte Norris Wonnacott Long Beach, California Mrs. Ellen Rigby Brown Centerville, Utah Mrs. Lenora Zylks Gibson Rodessa, Louisiana Mrs. Ada Alzina Harper Martin Central, Arizona Mrs. Annie Turner Worley Wellington, Utah Mrs. Abbie Wordsworth Ashcroft Springville, Utah Mrs: Ida Mary Upton Clark Keiraville, N. S. Wales, Australia Mrs. Louise Johnson Coleman Provo, Utah Mrs. Elnora Anderson Jensen Cleveland, Utah Mrs. Olga Petersen Larsen Logan, Utah Mrs. Christina Lindsay Hermosa Beach, California Mrs. Susannah Jane Sly Sampson Delta, Utah Mrs. Rachel King Slutznegger Manti, Utah Mrs. Alice Gygi Magny Buhrley Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Naomi Butterworth Christensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma McCarrell Holmes Vernal, Utah Mrs. Ella M. Ogden Olsen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elvina Clawson Rasmussen Santa Monica, California Mrs. Jennie Hopkins Stewart Lorenzo, Idaho Mrs. Melissa Poulton Wolstenholme Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary E. (Mamie) Gibbons Workman Salt Lake City, Utah 639 BUY ONE BOOK & GET ONE FREE for joining BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB (Purchase $4.95 and choose any $3 Book Free!) 15. Comp. Hist. Of Ch. 6 vols. 4.50 ea. 16. Doc. Hist. Of Ch. —Smith 7vols.4.50 ea. 17 Discourses of J. Smith 4.95 18 Highlights in Life ofPres. McKay 4.95 19 Mormon Doctrine —McConkie 6.95 20 BofM Digest— Hawkes 4.50 NEW BOOKS 21. Out of Best Bks. Vol V Special 3.00* 22. ""Vols.2,3 195ea* 23. Beginnings— ' 4 4 4; x & 7. Teachings of Joseph Smith 3.95 8. Essentials in Church History 5.95 9. Answers to Gospel Quest. 5 vols. 3.25 ea* 20 MORMON CLASSICS: "Books that continue to prove their lasting value!' 1. Mission. Bible 15.50 2. Missionary 10. D&C CommenRearican" 2.50* Triple Combo.11.00 tary 4.95 24. Ancient. 3. Marvelous Work 11. Meet the MorApostles. 2.95 & Wonder 1.95 mons—Green 2.95* 25. Just a Minute— 4. Jesus the Christ— 12. Discourses of Landau 9.90 Talmage 2.50* Brigham Young 4.95 26. Prophecies & 5. Articles of Faith 13. Gospel Doctrine Prophetic Promises —Talmage 2.95* J. F. Smith 4.95 of D&C 4.95 6. House of the Lord 14. Art of Home *Ideal Free Choices. —Talmage 2.95* Making-Hoole 4.25 (Order Other Books!) Please enroll neemeapstioe — and send mea resccataloge the "Review Card" each month or else purchase the that month. For every $20 of non-discounted books | will receive a BOOK! | am purchasing $4.95 now and will receive a $3 book | joining. One per person! (For postage and handling add 25¢ ordered. In Utah add 4%% sales tax.) | have enclosed $ - -.--..--.---- "Beehive 626 "H*' St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 ° an 'The Individual and Human Values" TPO Fetes eer re sens v8©°9990 9950 BoG000000Knn Family Living' $2.25 Around Us"' "Intelligent Vol.4 "The World "Community Responsibility" °° PO CCAR 9NGOOn onan ORDER FROM DE East South Te So. Main, Town & Cou SERET BOOK COMPANY Lake City, Utah 84110 ntry, Orange, Calif. 92668 12345 Please send me items circled: Ordering f-om Salt Lake fornia residents orderin account. KO money order, or O ch Aug. 1970 Rs. Sweeten up your day! A sweet treat recipe from CpthiaLectt LUSCIOUS LEMON BAR COOKIES CRUST 1 cup soft butter 1% cup powdered U AND | SUGAR Dash salt 2 cups flour Combine all ingredients and mix well. Press mixture into 9"x 13" pan. Bake at 350° for 15 minutes, or until nicely browned. FILLING 4 eggs, beaten Y cup flour 2 cups granulated U ANDI SUGAR __ 6 tablespoons lemon juice Combine flour and sugar, mix in beaten eggs and lemon juice. Pour onto the slightly cooled crust. Bake at 350° for 25 minutes, or until set. Cool and sprinkle with powdered U AND I. Yield: 3 dozen 142" cookies. Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, U and I Sugar Company Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. 

