
As the opening year of a new decade approaches we send greetings to
our beloved sisters in all the world. We rejoice with you in the blessings
which flow down from heaven upon the sisters, and the blessings which
attend the work of Relief Society.
At the beginning of a New Year, as is the custom, we examine the
prospects for the success of Relief Society activities. We pause to appraise
the needs of the sisters in this exciting, wonderful dispensation with its
sublime and breathtaking accomplishments. We are fully cognizant ot the
wickedness and evil rampant in the world and endeavor to make Relief
Society a bulwark for the sisters and for the guiding of their families in
withstanding the unrighteous temptations of the world, just the same, we
know the privilege of having been born into the world at this time. The
daughters of God are vital to his work in these latter days.
Never have the prospects been brighter for enlarged membership,
greater activity by more sisters, more opportunities for spiritual and cultural
advancement.
Never has the need for Relief Society been more evident. The sisters
need the companionship of other sisters with like ideals, the strength of a
great God-given organization upon which to depend.
Never has the influence of Relief Society been more widespread, more
accepted by others. Never have the women of the Church had more
opportunity to provide the example of righteous living, proper family
relationships, happy, well-cared-for homes, and refining pursuits.
Never have education materials been more abundant, more helpful for
application to living. Never has there been more work to do, more opportunities
for service. The lonely and benighted souls of many call to Relief
Society for help.
Never has there been greater need for women strong in the faithdedicated,
devoted women to carry the yoke of the Lord.
Look back, sisters. Let the past be the foundation for the present, the
preparation for the future. Give past experience full credit for its achievements.
". . . Ye shall henceforth return no more that way." (Deut. 17:16.)
Look up, sisters. Fasten your eyes upon Relief Society now!" ... ye have
not passed this way heretofore." (Jos. 3:4.) Do not let your veneration for
the past rob you of fullest participation and enjoyment of Relief Society
now.
Relief Society is fulfilling its destiny. We are seeing the prophecies as
to its growth coming to pass. May this New Year carry us farther along
the way.
Affectionately,
General Presidency
From Near and Far It was such a thrill to read the article in the September 1969 Magazine on "The Indians
of Guatemala." I was privileged to be in a group of stake M-Men and Gleaners in 1967
(I think) when Daniel Mich and Brother Tay of Guatemala were in my home town (Provo)
working on the translation of The Book of Mormon. They spoke to our group through
interpreters and told the stories of their conversion and the very story of the dream
Daniel Mich had of President McKay. It was one of the most spiritual meetings I had
ever attended. These men were humble and grateful for the gospel. Although I am
only twenty-two and have been married only two years, I am proud to be a part of
Relief Society and I always read the Magazine and enjoy it. I appreciate the contributions
of t he General Authorities. Anita Davis, Provo, Utah
I have just received my September Magazine, and I cannot express enough all my
gratitude for it. I can hardly wait to relate to my family the testimonies and conversion
of the woman of Guatemala and Brother Daniel Mich, the account of which appears
in Elder Milton R. Hunter's article "The Indians of Guatemala." Since our home
evenings are centered around The Book of Mormon, this will be a most spiritual and
appropriate addition to our next lesson. I thank Elder Hunter for his inspiring article.
The all-too-brief travelogue on Rome by Jean A. Jensen, with its beautiful pictures, is
truly outstanding. I was completely caught up in my fancy and had a most enjoyable
trip with Sister Jensen. The Relief Society Magazine has been a source of strength
and joy to me for many years. Betty M. Embleton, Needles, California
Thanks so much for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. It is always good to know
that no matter where we go in the world the guiding influence of the Church is with us.
it makes me as a Relief Society member feel warm and happy. I wish everyone could
read the material in the Magazine. It could help them in everyday life, as it does my
family and me. Jean Nederbrock, Anchorage, Alaska
I thoroughly enjoy the Magazine. It is like a ray of sunshine for it seems that I always
open the book and read something that strengthens me at that particular time. We as
Latter-day Saint people are blessed in so many ways. I consider the Magazine a
blessing and would like to express my gratefulness to Sister Sue Hedgpeth of Phoenix,
Arizona, for introducing me to the Magazine and for being the influence for our conversion
in 1 968. Now my husband and I and our four children are here in the East,
where it is a little more of a challenge in some ways to live the Church standards. It
is a comfort to have such help as The Relief Society Magazine.
Marilyn Miller, Frederick, Maryland
Today the Magazine arrived with the picture and my poem (November 1969, page 832).
The little girl is so like mine. The soft color is really lovely. This I would frame— except
I can never bear to tear the Magazine. Leora Larsen, Clearfield, Utah
We just moved here from Clovis, New Mexico, and while my husband is at Clark AFB
in the Philippines trying to make arrangements for our housing, I will be living here.
I dearly love the Magazine and the Relief Society meetings which I attended in Clovis
for some three years since my marriage. The Relief Society in Clovis is the only one I
have attended and I can testify of its strength. There are many lovely sisters in Clovis
and I shall miss them. I will look forward to the Magazine here in Oregon and hope to
hear from some of the sisters in the Philippines. Thanks for the Magazine that truly
brightens a lonely wife's days. June L. Moore, Klamath Falls, Oregon

JANUARY 1970 The, Relief Society Magazine Volume 57 January 1970 Number 1 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford Business Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 1 Happy New Year 1970 4 Responsibility of Relief Society Women Joseph Fielding Smith 7 The Blessings and Power of the Priesthood Mark E. Petersen 22 The National Foundation—March of Dimes George P. Voss 30 Binding the Magazine Jennie R. Scott Fiction 12 Jerusha Spends the Night—Chapter 1 Hazel K. Todd 24 The Delicious Fried Banana Stalk Maryhale Woolsey 43 Heart Room for Home—Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Alice Morrey Bailey General Features 2 From Near and Far 19 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 20 Editorial—''A Little Lower Than the Angels'' Marianne C. Sharp 48 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 80 Birthday Congratulations The Home—lInside and Out 29 A Thought for the New Year Mary C. Clough 33 Remembering Annie C. Esplin 34 Quick Mixes of Your Own Joyce L. Jones 37 Always Set a Good Table Betty Jan Murphy 38 Testimony Meeting Anna Kivekas 40 He Fixed It Himself Cora Hill Arnold 41 Hobby Features—Clara Shipley and Grace Ferris 42 Words for the New Year From a Ward Relief Society President Ruth Osman Lesson Department 57 Spiritual Living—Another of Joseph Smith's Contributions Roy W. Doxey 63 Visiting Teacher Message—True Conversion Alice Colton Smith 65. Homemaking—''Her Children Arise Up, and Call Her Blessed " Celestia J. Taylor 67 Social Relations—Purpose and Reward Alberta H. Christensen 72 Cultural Refinement—The Power of Work and the Use of Leisure Bruce B. Clark Poetry 6 Not Where | Serve, But How, Lettice O. Rich: 11 The Poet, Ruth G. Rothe; 22 Apples of Gold, Nona H. Brown; 23 By Beauty Awed, Linnie Fisher Robinson; 29 Sky Wings, Betty W. Madsen; 32 The Rhyme and the Reason, Iris W. Schow; 33 A Sprig of Green Alice Brady Myers; 37 Thoughts of An Earth-bound Wife, Leanor J. Brown; 42 A Miniature Loaf of Bread, Beulah Huish Sadleir; 64 Tomorrow's Embryo, Margaret B. Shomaker; 71 Lessons, Dorothy J. Roberts; 76 Mood, Theodora Graham; 77 Full Cycle, Kathryn Kay; 78 Chilc, My Child, Leora Larsen. The Cover: Winter in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah, Transparency by Hal Rumel, Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press e Frontispiece: A Pattern of Boughs and Branches, Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Studios ® Art Layout: Dick Scopes e Illustrations: Mary Scopes 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.©1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111: Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not _ $ent after subscription expires. Nc back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report _ change of address at once. Giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18; 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Responsibility of Relief Society Women President Joseph Fielding Smith Of the First Presidency [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969] w My dear sisters, here we are again at another conference and where the time has gone, I do not know. I see a few brethren in the audience, and I am sure that we welcome them at this gathering. You know I am a member of the Relief Society because I am one of their advisors, along with Brother Lee and Brother Romney, of the Council of the Twelve, so you will have to put up with me, but we are very happy to be a part of this great and glorious organization. You wonderful women are doing a marvelous work and are to be congratulated on the results, and all I ask is for you good sisters to be true and faithful and magnify your callings in this wonderful organization. Now I think it would be proper for me to give some instructions taken from the Prophet Joseph Smith's writings because sometimes we forget what our duties are, so with the help of the Lord 4 and your faith and prayers, I shall give to you some of the instructions given by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and while I mention the Prophet, let me add that President McKay sends his love and blessings to you sisters and he appreciates the work that you are doing. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: "... Some of our most intelligent, humane, philanthropic and respectable ladies [are members of this society] and we are well assured from a knowledge of those pure principles of benevolence that flow spontaneously from their humane and philanthropic bosoms, that with the resources they will have at command, they will fly to the relief of the stranger; and will pour oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice. "Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness.... We feel convinced that with their concentrated efforts the condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated." I am interested in this Society. | as was the Prophet Joseph Smith, that its rules must be observed; that none should be received into it but those who are worthy and virtuous. '""There must be decision of character aside from sympathy. When instructed, we must obey that voice, observe the laws of the kingdom of God, that the blessings of heaven may rest down upon us. All must act in concert, or nothing can be done. It was better for individuals to magnify their respective callings, and wait patiently till God shall say to them, 'Come up higher.' " The Prophet Joseph Smith spoke of delivering the keys of the priesthood to the Church, and said that the faithful members of the Relief Society should receive them in connection with their husbands, that the saints whose integrity had been tried and proved faithful, might know how to ask the Lord for blessings and receive the answer. President Heber J. Grant once said that his heart was full of gratitude to his Heavenly Father "for the faithfulness and devotion of the sisters of Relief Society who are doing and always have done so much for the comfort and encouragement of those less fortunate than themselves. May our Heavenly Father bless the mothers in Israel and all who are engaged in building up the kingdom of God on the earth. May the peace and blessings of Responsibility of Relief Society Women heaven abide in your homes and be upon you and your loved ones now and forever." The sisters should always "concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in their husbands, whom God has appointed for them to honor, and in those faithful men whom God has placed at the head of the Church to lead His people; that we should arm and sustain them with our prayers. "This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. "If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. Females, if they are pure and innocent, can come in the presence of God; for what is more pleasing to God than innocence if we would come before God, we must keep ourselves pure, as He is pure "You need not be teasing your husbands because of their deeds, but let the weight of your innocence, kindness and affection be felt, which is more mighty than a millstone hung about the neck; not war, not jangle, not contradiction, or dispute, but meekness, love, purity—these are the things that should magnify you in the eyes of all good men If this Society listen to the counsel of the Almighty, through the heads of the Church, they shall have 5 January 1970 power to command queens in their midst." I would like to quote some poetry that I think fits many of us. It is entitled "Where Shall I Work Today?" Master, where shall I work today? My love flowed warm and free. He pointed out a tiny spot And said, tend that for me.. I answered quickly, oh no, not there, Not any one could see No matter how well my work was done; Not that little spot for me. When he spoke he was not stern, But he answered me tenderly, Little one, search that heart of thine; Are you working for them or for me? Nazareth was just a little place And so was Galilee. I am sure we all could take this to heart and do better in our work and not try to be aspiring but be humble in all we undertake to do. I think I have quoted this before: "Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur—if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness.... "When you go home, never give a cross or unkind word to your husbands, but let kindness, charity and love crown your works henceforward; don't envy the finery and fleeting show of sinners, for they are in a miserable situation; but as far as you can, have mercy on them, for in a short time God will-destroy them, if they will not: repent.... "Who are better qualified to administer than our faithful and zealous sisters, whose hearts are full of faith, tenderness, sympathy and compassion." I hope and pray that I have given you something today that will strengthen your testimonies and help you to go through life, and to realize the importance of your callings in this great organization. And may the Lord bless you good sisters and magnify you, and I leave my blessings with you, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. Ck NOT WHERE | SERVE, BUT HOW | do not seek high honor or position, | do not ask to plan or chart the way, For some are called to lead, and some to follow, And all are blessed who serve him day by day. Not where | serve, but how, is all important— How diligent | work in his employ. | do not ask to lead, just to follow The charted course to God's eternal joy. —Lettice O. Rich The Blessings and Power of the Priesthood Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve {Address Delivered at the Stake Board Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1969] @® The priesthood is the divinely established foundation of a happy home life and the Lord is willing to give its blessings to every worthy family. The priesthood can begin to bless each family as it comes to understand and live the gospel of Christ, whether such a family is a newly converted one in the mission field or whether it has been in the Church for generations. It is especially emphasized in the ordinances of the temple. When we understand the facts of our inspired religion and see temple marriage in its true perspective, we recognize this holy ordinance as the foundation of genuine success in family living. It is the base on which we build true happiness in this life and exaltation in the life to come. It is an assurance to each family of the presence of the priesthood in the home and, when properly understood, it opens the door to righteous, God-fearing living as nothing else can. And when the gospel is thus lived, allits resultant blessings are assured. That is truly when the windows of heaven are opened and such blessings are poured out upon us that we can hardly contain them. In our sacred temples the blessings of heaven are bestowed upon the truly faithful and from that holy place they may be carried into our individual homes for the building of stronger family life and more tender, more sacred relationships between husband and wife. The blessings of the priestly ordinances of the temple are the same for men and women alike. There is no difference. In our marriage, when the sealing blessings are conferred, they are given to the man and the woman equally. January 1970 The covenants of obedience administered through the gospel again are the same for both men and women. There is no difference. We do not have two standards in the Church. And the promised blessings are likewise the same. When the Lord tells the obedient that he will open the windows of heaven and pour out such blessings that they can hardly be contained does he segregate these blessings and send some to men and others to women? God is no respecter of persons. So when a young couple, for example, begin their married life in the temple of God, they jointly and together enter into the same covenants under the priesthood and receive the same promises of divine beneficence. When they take this priesthood with them into their newly made homes, what does it mean? It actually means bringing God's power there—his covenant to bless that home—and_ his power to protect and build and sanctify it—his healing influence in times of illness—his inspiration in teaching little ones—his sanctifying influence which can make each home a temple—a place of refuge—a tabernacle of peace. When a home such as this is established, it is more than a residence where a family may eat and sleep and park the car. It is the beginning of an eternal relationship in which a family is bound together forever. Stop for a moment and contemplate this: Husbands and wives are sealed for eternity—and by what? The holy priesthood. 8 Children are sealed to their parents through life, death, and the resurrection. And by what power? The priesthood. When little ones become ill— by what power are they blessed and healed within the walls of their own home? It is the power of the priesthood. And if death invades the family circle, by what eternal power are loved ones held to that family circle until the time of a joyful reunion in the hereafter? It is the power of the priesthood. Every phase of family life is touched by the power of the priesthood if we live the gospel. The rules of family living in such homes are in harmony with the priestly standards God has given us by his divinely authorized servants. Homes thus become' sanctuaries of divine where family prayers are held under the influence of the priesthood; where games are played and songs are sung in a wholesome atmosphere fostered by the priesthood. Every child, like a tender plant, may be guided and influenced and taught the ways of righteousness under the influence of the priesthood. The strength of purity and the debilitating effect of sin, may be contrasted under the light of the priesthood. The Word of Wisdom is loved; chastity is made the moral watchword; honesty is an undeviating standard—all under the influence of the priesthood. Spirituality comes into its own in such a family circle. There can be no true joy without God. A testimony of his great reality can come to everyone in a home instruction — such as this because God is a part of that home. His influence is there. His joy, his peace, his deep satisfactions, his prosperity, his protection, his radiated intelligence serving as a light to our minds, all are there. And as little ones grow up and receive the blessings of the priesthood themselves, we see a continued extension of God's holy power, generation after generation, until in very deed we become an holy nation, a peculiar people showing forth the praises of him who has called us out of darkness into his marvelous light. Should we not then strive to bring the power of the priesthood into every home and honor that priesthood throughout our lives? The priesthood is defined as the power of God transmitted to mankind. Should we not make that power and its divine influence a part of every home? Should not husbands honor and magnify that priesthood? Should not sons seek to obtain it by proper ordination and also honor and magnify it? And should not each mother, wife, and daughter likewise honor this divine power conferred on husband, son, father or brother? And why should wife or mother or daughter thus honor that priesthood? Because the priesthood in the home, properly regarded, has a sanctifying influence, and every wife, mother, and daughter will be blessed through the spirit of peace which it provides. Where the priesthood is properly understood and honored and where its influence abounds, there will be no family quarrels, The Blessings and Power of the Priesthood no disrupted homes, no deception, no infidelity, and no divorce. Rather there will be harmony and joy. Is not. Christ the Prince of Peace, and is not the priesthood his? Is it not truly that which is after the holy order of the Son of God? Then let us all seek to bring it into our homes and recognize in it the source of peace and happiness. So, sisters, encourage your husbands to magnify the priesthood and to act properly in the office to which they have been called. Teach your sons to look forward to the day of their ordination that they, too, may understand its true significance and also honor it. Encourage your husbands to preside with dignity in your homes. Recognize them as the priestly presidents of the family. It will pay you great dividends in harmony in the home. Use your influence to help them to be the kind of family patriarchs you would like them to be. Peace comes from God. He is its only source. Your husbands, like you yourselves, are servants of God. The power they have obtained through ordination is the key to peace. You sisters help that key to turn and unlock the blessings of heaven for your home. Do it by honoring God's priesthood yourselves and encouraging your husbands to magnify it in their daily lives, at home, at work, and in the Church. It is regrettable indeed that some men dishonor their priesthood and they do so in many =) January 1970 ways. It does not appear only in criminal acts of which a few are guilty, not only in being unchaste, dishonest, or even in apostasy from the Church. But in other ways it occurs more frequently. For example, there are few more unmanly habits than the exercise of cruelty in the home, discourtesy to wife or children on the part of a husband or father who may assume that he is the dictator of the home and that "the king can do no wrong." Some men try to increase their own importance by belittling their wives and children, even before other people, making them appear as second class or inferior citizens. Such disrespect can only lead to resentment and many other troubles, and in extreme cases even to divorce. Just as no unclean thing may enter the kingdom of heaven, likewise no unkind person will ever enter there. We merit admittance to that realm only through our humility and sincere obedience to the laws of Christ who loved little children and treated all women—even sinners—with respect. It is he who is the Prince of Peace, and his peace includes peace in the home. It is he who taught us to be kind to one another and that also includes the home. He taught forgiveness, tolerance, patience, and_ longsuffering, all of which are at their best when exercised in the home. Do you suppose that anyone can enter his presence without those basic attributes? And yet such violations are almost habitual in some homes. As brethren create such circum- 10 stances in the home by their own selfishness or short-sightedness, they dishonor and desecrate the priesthood which they bear. Violations of God'slaws in secret are nevertheless infractions of his commandments, and the fact that they may occur within the four walls of a home and not in public does not lessen their seriousness in any degree. Some men present a pious appearance in public, but in their homes behave just the opposite. Such men in a most hypocritical manner dishonor the priesthood. And God despises hypocrites. Not only should men be kind to their wives and children and treat them with loving consideration, but by their own example they must teach their sons to do likewise. Respect for womankind is an integral part of honoring the priesthood. Since the priesthood is actually after the order of the Son of God, the attributes of the Son of God should characterize all those who belong to that order. We must remember That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. (D&C 121:36-37.) It is a good thing to read in our homes as we teach our sons and our husbands some of their rei sponsibilities with respect to the priesthood. But when that heavenly power is recognized for what it truly is and is respected by parents and children alike, it can bring to every family joy unspeakable in this life and a continuation of the family ties throughout all eternity. The home in a sense is like a miniature branch of the Church. The program of the Church should prevail and the priesthood should preside there in love and righteousness, and love and harmony should exist among all present. The gospel should be taught there even more effectively than anywhere else. And this should be done in a relaxed atmosphere. It is in such circumstances that children learn to love and enjoy the gospel, but let us remember that they will obey the gospel only as they enjoy it. We recognize that there are circumstances in many families which deprive them of the daily presence of the priesthood in the home. In some instances, fathers are not members of the Church. In others, husbands. And fathers have passed away. And then we have many good women who have not as yet found the opportunity for a proper marriage. THE POET Ruth G. Rothe The Blessings and Power of the Priesthood But even in these families the powers of the priesthood may be enjoyed. | Faithful wives and mothers may teach their children to pray and to believe and live the gospel. All of our sisters may call for the ministration of their bishops who are fathers of the entire ward. These sisters should also have the ministration of their home teachers, whose influence may be felt continually, not only in their frequent priestly visits, but in their constant nearness and availability to all the homes of the ward or the branch. These brethren may be called upon to bless in time of need. They may counsel and give advice. No family in the Church need go without the inspired guidance of the priesthood of God. So let us recognize the priesthood, then, for what it is—the power of God given to us in this mortal life. And let us remember its purpose—to bless and guide and exalt, and to assure every home of God's omnipresence, not only through the power of his Holy Spirit, but likewise through the physical presence of his duly ordained servants. And for this I humbly pray in the sacred name of the Lord, Jesus Christ, Amen. Using his: artist's touch, | He shapes each word, each phrase, } Blending and shading with intricate care, } That through his craft, *: The beauty he has learned, 1 Will be preserved for all the world to share. 11 Chapter 1 @ The way Jerusha came to live with the Wilsons was quite unusual indeed. But then, Jerusha was an unusual woman. She just came riding along a Utah highway one summer afternoon in her old Packard car with a little black pancake hat sitting on top of the graying hair that curled around her face like a wispy cloud fluff, her trim little body perched atop a cushion to enable her to see over the. Old-fashioned steering wheel. Just where the lane led off to the Wilson farm, the tired old car sputtered, wheezed a couple of times, and then belched out a whiff of black smoke and stopped, never to go again. Dennis, the ten-year-old boy who belonged to the Wilsons, with Skeeter, the dog, was catching grasshoppers along the irrigation ditch. Dennis had just plopped another squirming green orthopter into his pint fruit jar with a hole in the lid when he heard the car sputter and stop. He wiped the grasshopper juice on the fuzzy part of the knee hole of his overalls, pushed the shaggy strands of red hair from his eyes, and scooted over. To the gate where he pressed his freckled nose against the wire and watched the performance, while Skeeter stood with his front paws on the wire beside him. Jerusha had forsaken the useless steering apparatus and climbed out onto the highway in her soft sandals. She padded to the front of the car, pulled up the paint-worn hood and gazed into the internal wires and gadgets that made up the mechanism of the car. "What's the matter, lady?" Dennis asked in a nonchalant voice. ""Won't your car go?" 12 Jerusha turned to the boy and curiously but pleasantly looked him up and down from his straggly mop of red hair, his freckled nose, soiled shirt; and holey overalls, to his bare brown feet. "I'm afraid that's right, Johnny," she said brightly. "It's been sputtering and grumbling for a week now." "My name's not Johnny. It's Dennis," the boy said. Then he offered in dead seriousness, "<aBiwe if you said your prayers, it might go." An amused smile spread over Jerusha's softly wrinkled face. "You don't say!" she ejaculated. "We always say special prayers when things happen that're bad." Jerusha pulled the hood of the car down with finality as if this would be the last time and turned again to the boy. "I'm afraid it would take more than a prayer to make this jalopy £0, but thanks anyway. You see a mechanic back two days ago told me Behemoth's days were about over." "Is Behemoth your car?" "Yep," Jerusha said, "and we've been together a long time." And she gazed reminiscently at the hulk of car. Then, as though to put it behind her, she added, "But there always has to come an end to everything, Dennis. And you have to start over doing something else. New starts, that's what "Are you going to call your husband to come and get you?" Dennis asked. "Don't have any husband," Jerusha said. "Never had any desire for one of those kinds of things." "Well, how you gonna' get home then?" 13 January 1970 Jerusha padded over to the gate and looked at Dennis over her round-rimmed glasses. "I don't rightly know," she said, smiling a crinkly smile down at him. "Don't rightly know if I want to, especially since it's about two thousand miles from here." Dennis looked very concerned. "You see I got tired of staying there anyway. It was time that came to an end, too. That's why Behemoth and me started out across the country." "You could stay with us tonight," Dennis said. "You could sleep on the couch." Jerusha looked appraisingly into the boy's honest upturned face. "I'm afraid your mother wouldn't like you to bring home an old highway tramp," she said with a wink. "But we don't have any mother," Dennis said, "she died. There's just Suzey and Joe and Amy and my dad and me—and Skeeter," he added, patting the dog who wagged his tail appreciatively. For a minute Jerusha continued to look at the boy. She noted with new interest the long unkempt hair, the soiled shirt, and the gaping holes in the knees of his overalls. And then she said suddenly, "Well, thanks, partner. I am right grateful to you. My name is Jerusha." She put out her hand and shook his through the wire. Then she turned to the ancient vehicle resting placidly on the road. "But we'd better get this pile of junk off the highway. Do you think you could give me a hand? We'll just push it off to the side where it will be out of the way until something better can be done about it." 14 "Sure," Dennis said and set, his jar of loot down carefully on the grass. Jerusha's eyes rested on the bottle. "What in the world have you got in your bottle?" she asked. "Grasshoppers." "Grasshoppers? Mercy sakes alive, what are you doing with a bottle of grasshoppers?" she asked with a wry face. Dennis shrugged. "Just fun to catch 'em." And then he added brightly, "I'll give them to the ducks though. They like 'em." So, with some tugging and pushing and a few sharp yaps from Skeeter standing by wagging his tail anxiously, the old car slid over the side of the road grade into a patch of sunflowers. There were a few creaks and bangs. A hub cap fell off with a clatter into some rocks and rolled away down the borrow pit. "Well, that's that," Jerusha said, brushing her hands together and wiping them on a large handkerchief she pulled from her skirt pocket. "And now, let's go home.' She leaned down and picked up the old-fashioned suitcase she had extracted from Behemoth before they sent it packing. "This is pretty heavy, but maybe we can manage together," she said. Dennis shut the gate behind them and picked up the bottle. "Tm real strong," he said, squeezing his free hand onto the suitcase handle beside Jerusha's. "I carry the milk buckets into the house all the time, while Joe feeds the cows." "I'm glad to hear that," Jerusha said. Then they made their way up the lane to the house, lugging the case between them, while Skeeter trotted along at the side sniffing here and there at unseen surprises hidden in the weeds and grass. When they set the suitcase down to rest, Dennis threw a stick to show Jerusha how Skeeter could run and bring it back. The house was a rambling cottage with a promising picture window, but the white paint was dull and somewhat smudged. And the criss-cross curtains at the window looked tired and wilted like a last hot summer day. A few straggling rosebushes ran wild about an unkempt flower bed that was smothered with grass and dandelions. A weary white picket fence with a gate hanging on one hinge separated the house and yard from the barn and out buildings. Along the fence tangled a growth of ragged bachelor's buttons in helter skelter arrangement, bespeaking their self-seeding origin. Jerusha set down her half of the suitcase and dented her finger into her cheek thoughtfully while Dennis looked at her questioningly and set his half down, too. "Are you tired, Jerusha?"' he asked. "I can carry it the rest of the way." But she caught his hand and twined her fingers with his. "Just a minute, Dennis," she said philosophically, "I'm not tired. It's your house that's tired. It needs a new start." He looked at her as if to ask, "How could a house get tired?" But just then the door opened and a girl, probably two years older than Dennis, came out carrying a black and white kitten. Jerusha Spends the Night She wore a blue denim skirt which suggested she was growing too fast and a boy's shirt. Her chestnut hair was pulled back into a pony tail and tied with a red ribbon. She stopped when she saw them and dropped the kitten 'to the ground. Her gaze went from Dennis to Jerusha with questioning brown eyes long lashed and striking. "Where have you been?" she asked the boy. "You missed Primary. Your teacher called to see what happened to you." Dennis caught his breath and bit his lip in disappointment. "Darn it!" he said, "I forgot, and we were going to make birdhouses. Why didn't you call me, Suzey? I was just catching grasshoppers down by the road." Suzey shrugged. "How'd I know? But she said you could come over after supper and she'd help you get yours started." Jerusha listened with interest. Then she prompted Dennis, "I guess. You'd better tell Suzey where you found me," she said quite casually as though she might have been another grasshopper or something he had picked up on the ditchbank. "Well, this here's Jerusha," he said. "Her car broke down, and I told her she could stay with us tonight." Jerusha chose to ignore the look of surprise on the girl's face. She just arranged the lines in her face into a soft friendly smile and picked up the suitcase. "Don't worry about it, Suzey," she said, quite at home, starting for the door. "It's not like I was real company, you know. Maybe I can give you a hand with something inside." 15 January 1970 So the two followed her into the house where she set the suitcase down beside a somewhat battered couch and took off her hat. "I can just lay it over here," she mused and placed it on a stack of newspapers. And then she spotted the little girl crouched behind a big chair. She was holding onto a doll with matted hair wrapped in a worn blanket. The child gazed up at Jerusha with wide, timid eyes. Her gorgeous red curls were almost as tousled as the doll's. Her pink play suit was pinned over her shoulders with two large safety pins that stood out like take-off gear. Jerusha reached out her hand to touch the shining head, but the little girl dropped the doll and blanket and went flitting across the floor, like some moonbeam slipping behind a cloud, to disappear into a doorway to some other part of the house. Jerusha dropped her hand as though she had just let fall a golden apple of Hesperides. She looked at Suzey with questioning eyes. "That's Amy," Suzey said. "She's afraid of strangers. She was just two and a half when our mother died, and she don't ever want to make up with anybody.": To the wheels already turning in Jerusha's head, she quickly set another cog spinning. To the girl standing bewildered and waiting, she said, "You must be the lady of the house. I suppose you have things that need attending to." She glanced out the window at the sinking sun. "I presume you have a meal to prepare. Your father must be coming 16 soon expecting something to eat. What can I do to help?" The girl looked at Jerusha strangely. Then, as though on a sudden reassurance, she _ said, "Dad and Joe are in the hayfield on the other side of the ridge. He told me to make some stew, so I put it on to cook." "TI thought I smelled something good when I came in," Jerusha said. "Now I'm wondering if we couldn't just slip in a few Danish dumplings." She gave an exuberant sigh of real pleasure. "They're delicious, you know." And so, presently, there were dumplings in the stew, biscuits in the oven, and a bowl of fresh rhubarb made from some plants she spotted through the kitchen window. Then she said to Dennis, "You find Amy and gather some of those bachelor's buttons along the fence. They'll make a right nice centerpiece for the table." So it was that Paul Wilson and his son Joe came home from the hayfield and found the table laid with a snowy linen cloth that hadn't been used since Dorothy died. There was a napkin at each plate and a bowl of blue flowers in the center. Paul stared at the table like one in a dream. He was a nice looking man, erect and stately, with dark chestnut hair like Suzey's, only now graying at the temples. His features had a look of strain, his eyes bore the semblance of the pain he had suffered. Jerusha, watching through the corner of her eye, where she stood by the stove dipping dumplings onto a platter, hurried to set the steaming dish on the table. "It's all ready," she said. Teenaged Joe had been standing at the entrance way gaping. He had a shock of brown hair that fell carelessly over his forehead, and his eyes under his arched brows were dark and flashing. He came forward now with a quick stride. He spoke to Suzey who was filling the glasses with milk. But his eyes were on Jerusha. "Hey, Suz," he said flippantly, "what's going on here anyway?" Suzey shrugged, and without answering, looked at Jerusha expectantly.. Jerusha turned and opened the oven, displaying the mounds of golden brown biscuits. "We just thought we'd do a little special tonight, Joe," she said. Then, turning to the father, she added, "My car broke down and Dennis said I might sleep on your couch tonight."' Then, catching a pot holder from the cupboard, she pulled the pan from the oven with a swish. "Now as quickly as you can get ready, this food should be eaten before it gets cold." And that was it. They found their seats and Jerusha took the one left over. Little Amy peered at her furtively from around her father where he had helped her onto a stool. Jerusha smiled at her and made ever so tiny a wink, but Amy drew her head back quickly. Mr. Wilson's eyes went round the table. They came to rest upon Dennis. "Son, will you please say the blessing?" he said. Dennis bowed his head and offered his simple thanks and supplication. And then, with what must have seemed a fitting afterthought to him, he added, "And Jerusha Spends the Night Lord, we thank thee that Jerusha is going to spend the night with us. * * Bana so Jerusha came to live with the Wilsons, to share their ups and downs, to bring again the touch of a mature female into the household, to change their lives and her life with new beginnings. It had come about so easily. On that first morning when Dennis brought in the two pails of foamy 'milk, he had found Jerusha bustling about the kitchen cooking breakfast. "Where's Suzey?"' he asked. "She has to take care of the milk." "T told her to sleep awhile this morning," Jerusha said. "Young girls Suzey's age need a lot of sleep. Show me what's to be done with the milk and ['ll take care of it." So Dennis brought out the big milk strainer and showed her the bottles to fill and put in the refrigerator for family use, and how to strain the rest into the large milk can so Joe could set it where the milk truck could pick it up. He brushed the long hair from his face with his arm while he instructed her. "Who cuts your hair?" Jerusha asked. "Oh, sometimes my dad and sometimes he takes me to the barber when he don't have time." "Did the ducks like your grasshoppers?" "Haven't done it yet," Dennis said, "I went over to my teacher's to start my birdhouse last night." Jerusha listened with interest. "Td like to watch the ducks when you give them those varmints," 17 January 1970 she said. 'And I'd like to see your birdhouse, too." Dennis gave her a quick grin. "Sure, Jerusha, after breakfast." Then Joe came in, walking with a quick stride. He stopped suddenly when he saw Jerusha, and a slight shadow crossed his face, but she paid no attention to it. He said nothing to Jerusha even though her face shone with friendliness. He turned to Dennis. "Where's Suz?" he demanded. "She's sleeping in," Dennis replied without concern. "Well, Ill get her up," Joe~ remarked authoritatively, striding across the kitchen floor. Then, through the window, Jerusha saw Paul coming with a shovel over his shoulder. He stopped and leaned it against the house, and she hurried to start the pancakes cooking. With her back to the open door she felt him watching her. She faced him pleasantly and naturally as though she had always been there and flipped over a pancake. "Good morning," she said, "I suppose you have already worked up a big appetite. I made a lot just to make sure." He smiled, a little confused, his eyes on the platter of eggs and bacon, and then he said apologetically, "This is right nice of you to help out like this. Suzey does pretty well, but we kind of forget what it's like to have a grownup hand doing the cooking." "I'm right happy to oblige, Mr. Wilson," Jerusha said and flipped another pancake. One by one the places filled up at the table. Dennis almost knocked his chair over trying to seat himself with his eyes on the stack of pancakes. Joe sat with a 18 glum stare at the table, and he gave Suzey a black look when she slipped into her chair just in time. Then Amy came tripping in, still wearing her nightgown. She started for her father, and then with a sidelong glance at Jerusha, she detoured around the other side of the table. Paul stood up and quietly looked at Jerusha. "We always have a family prayer together before breakfast," he said. '""We'd be happy if you'd like to kneel with us." Quick to oblige, Jerusha's eyes rested on her first acquaintance. "Dennis said you were quite accustomed to praying," she remarked straight forwardly,"and I guess I don't know too much about it, but I'd be nght happy to join you." Spry as one half her age, she bent her knees and reached down to straighten her skirt. As she did so, her eyes met Amy's peeping at her under the table. The little girl quickly dropped her head onto her arms on the chair seat. Jerusha had a great longing to reach out her hand and touch the child's head _ reassuringly. But under the table was not quite the place to begin her conquest, especially if Amy should decide to scramble away from her. Paul offered the prayer for the family, remembering each member's welfare. He asked for blessings for friends and relatives and the welfare of the Church and its leaders, after giving thanks. And then he mentioned the family's guest. It brought about a peculiar twinge inside Jerusha, so that she felt she would like to shake his hand in friendship. (to be continued) nd €sident of th National Counci| of Presided a € annual Meetings of Cuncil hel nN New rk City in Octob The Council 'NCludes thirty-two Member Organizations rough Which th Council h access to More than tw ty-three ill wome President Spafford Presideqd d Conducted all Meetings, p eSident Floren S. Jacob sen of t Yo N& Women: Utual im Provemen 4SSOCiation also ttendeg th Meetings The SPE€cial 196 "Wom of ONscience"' awar. IS Presenteg to Mrs nie Mae Ba kh f Coll 8€ Station, Arkansas for he 'NSPirationa| leadership, and "he Visio Ourage jn dealing with Causes" Pa ticulary for "bring 'NE pride into Ves of the towns People," ang ¢ encour Inga d teaching €groes to Cast their ¢ St vot Miss Peggy Carey of Long B ach, Califor Nia, has been PPointed the new house C€per at th Ite Ho se, ashington D. C. Sh 'N8S more an Nty-five years of Otel Xperience + the White N to the ned for tion of nature's 8ifts to man, Sylvie de Bois, 5 young Paris &x-deby. Tante, read that the Uniteg States Needed 1,000 traineg Chefs. With a invested some Meet their foreign Genera| friendliness Was enthusiasm for Miss Angie Br ks, forty ne, of Liberia last Septe b 4S electeg President of the Genera] ssembly the Uniteg Nations. € Is the Second woman to be SO honoreq first wa Vijaya Lakshmj andit, fro n Mrs Ray Kirkland, Bountiful, Utah, has come one Of tw ty ASSOCiates Of the a Otographj Ociet f America for 1969, and h reaped Many other honors IN her field Mrs. Dorene Johnson, an eMployee at Hil} Air Force Base, Ogden, Utah, is the Only cer. If Man radiographer iN the United Using, at times, the Potentially danger. OUS (if not handled Correctly) iridium 192 radioisotope She takes X-ray Pictures— and interprets them—of the iNsides of airplanes to detect any POSsible faults. EDITORIAL / "A Little Lower Than the Angels" is the great commandment in the law?"' and the Lord's answer, ''Thou Shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul,. Volume 57 January 1970 Number 1 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor THE GENERAL BOARD | Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer — ing them the way. He! S the great Exemplar. He even taught "... Do good to them that hate you, and pray for them: which despitefully use you, and persecute you."' (Matt. 5:44.) He pointed out the example of the Father in sending rain on the just and the unjust. It helps in daily living to arrive at the conclusion that people are of the first importance. When one is young and able to be independent, life pretty much centers around one's own person, but the passing of years reveals slowly but inexorably one's dependence upon others —dear ones and friends. Friends come to mean more and the tried and true are increasingly valued. The storms and vicissitudes, sorrows, and tribulations beat upon one's life. The time for waiting comes— waiting for someone to help, waiting for needed assistance, even waiting for understanding. How fortunate the older individual who has young relatives, YOUns friends who have learned the importance of people and respond to one's needs in willingness and joy. ''It is more blessed to give than to receive"' might be termed the wellspring of those who bless others. Today while life remains is the time to live the axiom "People are important.": In Psalms we read ''What is man, that thou art mindful of him? And the son of man, that thou visitest him? For thou hast made him q little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and One does well to serve one's fellow man and lift him up, for his destiny 's glorious. —M. C. S. Leone G. Layton Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Amy Y. Valentine \? Aleine M. Young Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Marian R. Boyer Alberta H. Christensen Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Orlene J. Poulsen Winniefred S. Manwaring Oa J. Cannon Lucile P. Peterson Marjorie M. Reeve Mary R. Young Lila B. Walch Elaine B. Curtis Ada J. Jones | Fanny S. Kienitz Lenore C. Gundersen Zelma R. West Helen E. Lach Elizabeth B. Winters Marjorie CPingree Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Jennie R. Scott Darlene C. Dedekind Reba O. Aldous Johna de St. Jeor Alice L. Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Luella W. Finlinson Beverly J. Pond irene W. Buehner Ellen N. Barnes Norma B. Ashton Inez 1. Waldron. Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Maurine M. Haycock Anna Jean B. Skidmore GIVE to the The National Foundation George P. Voss Vice-President for Public Relations When we embarked on this program in 1958, the prospect of conquering birth defects seemed as unlikely as did the chance of wiping out polio in 1938. We won that fight, and, with your help, we think we can win this one. | Scientists supported by the Foundation have already recorded significant advances. Academic and pharmaceutical researchers have also developed vaccines against Rh disease and against rubella. If properly developed over the next two decades, they can wipe out major congenital birth defects. In addition to participating directly in efforts to see that these new weapons are maximally employed, the March of Dimes has embarked on intensive prenatal care and educational programs to reduce the incidence of birth defects associated with prematurity and to reduce infant mortality. Prevention of birth defects is at last becoming a reality, as medical science discovers answers that will spare heartache to countless families. Today the March of Dimes maintains 111 Birth Defects Centers throughout the United States, supports vital research into causes, cures, and prevention, conducts intensive programs in professional and public health education, and fosters community recognition of the need for prenatal care as a safeguard for the health of future generations. APPLES OF GOLD "A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver" (Proverbs 25:11) Like apples of gold in bright pictures of silver Are words fitly spoken, we are told. Some words said to me | have treasured and cherished Far more than mere silver or gold. Kind words, said in love, can strengthen and gladden, Encourage and comfort and bless. Lord, grant me the wisdom to make my words fitting In all of the thoughts | express. —Nona H. Brown 22 presence over all; firs have pierced the snow that fell, As if straining to meet some call. T the hours have passed on that third day, While he who labored saw it face to face; = His love was hovering as now, When God looked down upon this place. PHOTOGRAPH BY HAROLD M. LAMBERT # The summer my brother Bill was fifteen he got his first "regular" job, delivering groceries for the town co-op. "A man-size job, boy," Papa told him. "But if you work hard, doing your very best, you'll handle it fine." And Mama said, _ echolike, "Sure you will, Bill. You can do fine all the time, just doing your best." He started next morning, brisk and confident in new striped coveralls, straw hat, and brightly shined shoes. With a jaunty, "Well, see you tonight!" he emerged from his clustered family and walked away down the road with firm, steady steps. "Good going, Bill!" Mama called at last. Her smile seemed to me different somehow—sort of tight, and her eyes held worry. I wondered why. The 44] Delicious Fried Banana Stalk Maryhale Woolsey In due time Bill reached his first payday. We were all gathered on the small front porch waiting for him; watching him come swaggering up the walk, wearing an ear-to-ear grin and holding his left hand high, waving a little blue oblong of paper towards us. His first pay check! All of us kids, from me down to Freddie and Katie, had been counting the days —almost like before Christmas— waiting to see this wonder. But what, I thought suddenly, was that funny thing he carried over his right shoulder? It looked like a lanky, brown, leafless little tree. Oh, it was—of all things—a banana stalk, with all the bananas gone. '"What's the trophy for?" Papa asked. "I thought when I first saw it, it was a set of antlers; thought you might have been splurging already." "Not me," Bill said. "Didn't I promise to bring my first pay check home so you could all see it? And when I cash it, most of the money is going right into a good old savings account in the bank—for high school this fall, just like I've said all along." The grin was gone and Bill's expression was one of sober earnestness. He rubbed his chin with the back of the hand still holding the check. As if, I thought, he was feeling the fuzz on his chin grown longer since morning. Then he added, "This is a—uh—a bonus, folks. First time the newest employee ever got one right along with his first pay, Hank Burton told me." He marched on, through the sitting room into the kitchen, with all of us trailing after him. We gathered around, watching him lay the banana stalk on Mama's work table. It made a small thud as it turned over when he let go of it. I looked up and saw Mama and Papa looking queerly at each other. "But—whatever is Mama asked. "It's to eat," Bill said. "Fried —like eggplant, Mama. Something new for supper," Bill finished proudly. "F-fried—?'' Mama's voice was faint. "I never in my life...." Papa spoke up. "Tell us more about this—uh—bonus, son. Did Hank Burton give it to you, himself?" "Why why, no. He just was the first one to congrad— con-grat-ulate me, Papa. He gave it for?" The Delicious Fried Banana Stalk me such a whacking thump on my back, he almost knocked me ~ over, and said to me, 'Kid, you're doing okay, aren't you! A whole month's pay, and a bonus the first clatter out of the box.' And he showed me where it was hanging up, right there by my hat, by the back door. And all the others— just about everybody, Papa, came around to me and congratulated me. Even Mr. Lonney—the boss, you know." Bill paused as if out of breath, and the grin—a sort of remembering grin—spread across his face again. "And...?" Papa questioned. "Well just like Mama, I didn't know about cooking banana stalks. I didn't know they were good for anything—and I told Hank that. And he said where had I been all my life, and he told me, 'Why, you eat 'em, kid. You sure your mother hasn't fed 'em to you sometimes, without you knowing?' "' Bill paused, his eyes remembering. "I said I guessed I'd know a long thin crooked thing like a banana stalk, any time. And then Hank said heck, it won't look like that when it's all cooked, because it's in little slices. Sliced and parboiled and dipped in egg and crumbs and then fried, allee samee eggplant; see? And if we folks at our house '-hadn't ever tasted delicious fried banana stalk, well, we've really been missing some treats. I asked him if you salt and pepper it, and he said oh, sure, of course. And then—he offered to help me carry it home, but I said I could do that all right myself. And I said thank you, Hank. And— and that's all, I guess. You can cook it—part of it, I mean, tonight, Mama, can't you?" 25 January 1970 "T'll try, Bill, though I must say, I never in my whole life knew of anybody cooking banana stalk." "Oh, that's all right, Mama. I guess there's lots of things we never heard of, out here in the sticks," Bill said reasonably: "Did you ever know anybody cooking oysters on a half a shell, either? I bet not. Well, I read in a book once, about folks in a real swell hotel ordering oysters on a half a shell; it was in New York or someplace grand like that. I guess we can try fried banana stalk, can't we?" Mama shook her head, looking doubtfully into his earnest gaze. "A banana stalk is just wood, Bill dear. Wood isn't to eat." "Look, Mama, just because we haven't ever tried it, does that prove anything? Look, it's my bonus. I earned it by being an extra-good worker. If I go slice it, now, you will cook it, won't you, Mama? Please!" Bill coaxed. "Of course she will," Papa said. His voice was sort of choked up. "You go right out and slice it. Use my small saw, if you need to, and I'll get the fire going good and hot, and some water ready to parboil it. Bill is right, Mama. He earned that bonus, and the least we can do is be willing to try his—uh—something new to eat." Mama nodded. "You're right, dear, Bill, too. Go ahead, Baill, cut a good batch of slices, and I'll do my best to cook them right." Happy again, Bill shouldered his banana stalk and went out back to the summer kitchen. Mama said to Papa, in a low but indignant tone, "That Hank Burton! He—he ought to be 26 spanked. Bill's so innocent, so trusting." "Never mind, dear. He'll live through it, you'll see. I'll go bring in some wood." Freddie and Jimmy followed him out. Something in their voices puzzled me. But Katie was calling me from the sitting room. I was supposed to be helping her make a new dress for her favorite doll. I went to her, and for the next half-hour she kept me busy, but over her chatter I kept hearing Bill's peculiar tuneless whistle, punctuated with little jerks and swells and pauses that measured his exertions as he worked. I heard, too, the clatter of kettles and pans as Mama got things out, preparing to start cooking. And when Papa came in and dumped an armful of wood into the woodbox, I caught some words he said to Mama: "Better see we have plenty of stuff to go with our fried banana stalk, Lib." "That's what I was thinking, too," Mama responded. "I'm starting a chocolate cake. That will make a good ending, no matter what else." Katie said, "I'm tired of sewing now. I'm going out and run and TUM. An." I wandered back into the kitchen. 'Can I set the table now, Mama?" "Tt's kind of early, but I guess not too. Yes, go ahead, dear." I breathed a big sigh of relief. Setting the table was the one way I could be sure of remaining in the kitchen—and that was something I wanted terribly to do. I wanted to see what was going to happen; something was, I felt sure. All that looking at each other, the way Mama and Papa looked, had made me excited and eager and, yes, a little bit afraid. What was so queer about a banana stalk? I dawdled over the table setting, placing the plates and the knives and forks and drinking glasses with such meticulous attention to spacing, that Mama might have wondered and questioned me, if she hadn't been so busy. Bill was back presently, with a milk pan full of dark drippy rounds about an inch thick, I guess; they were a kind of dark mustard color with darker streaks in them. "IT washed 'em, Mama, so they're all ready to start the cooking. Gee... You making chocolate cake, too? That's fine, Mama." She slipped the cake pans into the oven, then dumped the banana stalk slices into her big kettle where water was already boiling. "I wonder how long they need to parboil... Did Hank say anything about that?" "No, but—well, you stick a fork in potatoes and things, don't you —to tell when they're cooked? I should think." "I guess so,' Mama _ said hastily. She began fixing creamed leftover potatoes and peas, and sliced some ham. Bill stuck by her, wanting to help, but mostly getting in her way—until she thought of letting him beat the eggs and roll dried crumbs for the "egg and crumb dip." On the platter they looked good. I guess you could fry sagebrush chips and they'd look all right, I mean the egg and crumb coating would: look good! But in our mouths—well, one by one we removed the woody flavorless The Delicious Fried Banana Stalk chunks and placed them at the edges of our plates, that is, after eating the egg and crumb coating off them; that was edible, all right. Bill's face got longer and longer. "Do you s'pose they needed to parboil more? Hank ought to have told me, if they take a long, long time," he puzzled. "That Hank!" Mama said. And gently, "I'll betcha he's pulling your leg, Bill. I mean, it's his idea of a joke." "They do things like that to kids just starting on first jobs, you know," Papa explained. "The main thing is, don't let the jokes make you feel bad. You'll have your chances, you know, to turn the laughs around onto him, sometime." "Oh," said Bill. His face seemed to crumple a little. He left the table without finishing his applesauce, but he left not a crumb of his chocolate cake. Ail day Sunday Bill went around with a silent, closed-in look; even through Sunday School he wore it. Mama worried. "T don't want he should get his feelings hurt too bad, this first job," I heard her tell Papa, low, when Bill had gone to bed extra early. "Maybe I had better go to town in the morning, first thing. Maybe if they see me in the store, they won't rub it in as much." "Maybe you should,' Papa agreed. "It would make you feel better, that's sure. Bout time to lay in some more ham and flour, anyway, isn't it?" "Washday will be late,' Mama frowned, "but it will be in a good cause." 27 @- | 'Oh, Hank, I was just going to tell you. It was sure delicious, right to the last bite. Best darned banana stalk—l'll bet you never tasted better, 999 Burton come in. And started getting real busy, just zied, bu cocky as anything and whistling: And Hank and those other men all kept eyeing him see they were "And, finally; Hank walked and glowing; over to Bill and said, quite loud, atched Mama. And Papas Well, Bill, ow d you ike your youd eye And 1 knew tha bonus? Got it all eaten UP alprother Bill was suddenly some ready? And Bill looke around one to be proud of—and all once nearer to becoming a grown- t r A: Thought for the New Year Mary C. Clough @ The Christmas lights have gone out and are being taken down one by one. There must have been millions of them in this city alone, decorating buildings, streets, and trees, and we won't see their cheery, twinkling lights until the next Christmas season. There are countless lights in the sky that twinkle and shine from season to season with such unchanging certainty that they have been used for centuries for directional guidance. There are also human lights, millions of them around the world, that light the way for others. Some of them will fade out before another year is through. Will yours? SKY WINGS Over the still trees where the last light clings, Unfolded in a feathering design Of silver brushed on blue, of widened wings, Clouds lift above the city's darkening line. Look skyward, you who walk the evening street, Heaven is painted there for you to find.. Look up from traffic and the print of feet, Let these bright birds come soaring to your mind. Look up, ah, soon! Before the feathers fade. The world will wait until another sun, But never were mists as delicately made, Never a night so holy as this one. Watching the wave of wings across the sky, Though shadow-bound, |, too, can almost fly —Betty W. Madsen PHOTOGRAPH BY LUOMA PHOTOS 29 Jennie R. Scott Member, General Board of Relief Society @ An opportunity for Relief Society organizations to preserve their issues of the Magazine attractively and yet save the cost of professional binding was demonstrated at the 1968 Relief Society Annual General Conference. Under the direction of the Rose Park Stake Relief Society, whose president is Frances Holtry, and Magazine representative is Doris Hensler, this display was popular and informative. Choose order not chaos Know where on which shelf How to store it? Explore it? Decide for yourself. A permanent soft cover binding for the Magazine was demonstrated, with the use of a kit containing the necessary materials for binding volumes. A binder was displayed with metal rods, sold at the Relief Society Building, and another, a binder of the same general pattern made by using heavy cardboard for the cover, masonite for the spine, and strong elastics for the rods. Magazines with punched holes were included in the display. The Magazines had been taken to an office supply store where holes were punched from the top and bottom as close to the spine as possible. The staples were not removed. Front and back covers were made of naugahide or light poster board. Six-inch by nine-inch art panels (simulated canvas paper for oil painting) were also used for covers. A year's Magazines were held together with one of the following: Ties of heavy cord Loose leaf rings 21," in diameter Fastener of flat metal strips 3" paper fastener (head and 2 prongs) mwOnNr The manila folder box was popular with the sisters who viewed the display, and is an inexpensive way to preserve Magazines. 30 Binding the Magazine MANILA FOLDER Box 4 In the Index tab bottom. Wind a Pipe clea and another jn the middle of the front ner 4round the fasteney heads to hold Paper, if desired. 31 PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLARD LUCE the Home THE RHYME AND THE REASON The battered truck crept up the interstate Packed firmly as a good hard cabbage head With shabby household goods securely bound To place by well-tied cords. No item visible in all that load Of tired necessities but stood in need Of renovation or to be discarded; Each cried its tale of hapless poverty. The flimsy, battered cots that squared the sides Along the load, disclosed their knocks and rust. The occupants, attuned to the slow jog, The gaunt, worn woman and the long-faced man, Passed by with heed for nothing but their route. Then, tightly fastened on the very back To be the last impression the load left, A tarnished sprinkling can, spout slightly bent, Proclaimed the dauntless owner's warm intent. That flowers would burst like reason and like rhyme To bloom wherever one gaunt woman went. —lris W. Schow Annie C. Esplin @ Although many years have passed since I was in my childhood home, there remains a certain something, even now, which enfolds me like a delightfully warm and comforting cloak. It is the priceless sense of security, love and faith our parents conveyed to us throughout their lives. How blessed we were to have such parents at the helm of our happy domain! One especially precious memory is the heartwarming manner in which my father prayed. I have a clear vision of father, mother, and us children, kneeling in morning and evening prayer. The room was always tidy and clean. Firelight flickered, embracing the walls of the room and its occupants. Which served to create a pleasant atmosphere like a benediction. Father approached our Heavenly Father with simplicity and love, quiet grace, and firm, unyielding faith. Always, first to be expressed were humble thanks for manifold blessings he bestowed upon us. Some never-to-be-forgotten phrases were these: 'We thank thee for the light of the gospel, for thy servants, for each other.... Help us so to order our lives that we will be worthy of exaltation in thy presence. Fill our minds so full of good that evil cannot enter. Wilt thou temper the elements for our good.... Help us to live busy useful lives and overcome our weaknesses.... Forgive us for our shortcomings and take the lead of our thoughts, words, and actions. Bless the Authorities of our Church, our missionaries in the field; comfort the heartsof those who mourn. Let thy kind protecting care and guidance abide with us this night." I humbly bow my head, remembering. A SPRIG OF GREEN Just give me a little sprig of green That | may weave it in between The twilight hour and the purple dark— Between layers of winter preceeding the lark. A philodendron cutting will do, Its slender leaf spear reaching through Step and sheath in an endless chain— Reaching, and leafing and reaching again. | do not ask for blossoms of red Or flowering pink in a window bed. Leaf green is enough to urge me on In faith through the shadows before the dawn. —Alice Brady Myers 33 Quick Mixes of YourOwn SS — ae -_— ~ — a ——— a, \. » bed. - aa °. ~ © " ~. Te e. — __ ~~ - _ — +). =; oe Joyce L. J bes" @ Many of the prepared mixes which we find on the grocer's shelves today had their beginning in the kitchen of yesterday's homemaker. In the hurry-scurry pace of today's activity, many homemakers have turned to the prepared mixes as a time-saver. However, the time saved is not always in proportion to the additional cost of the prepared mixes. By using a small amount of time on a less busy day, the homemaker can mix several of her own prepared mixes for use when time is at a premium. Some of my favorite mixes and recipes for their use follow. WHITE SAUCE MIX 2 c. Dry milk (regular, not instant) lc. Sifted flour 1 c. Margarine Cut in margarine until crumbly. Store in covered container in refrigerator. WHITE SAUCE Place measured amount of mix in saucepan. Gradually stir in water, cooking over low heat, stirring constantly. Flavor with salt and pepper. Thin: Y%c. Mix 1 c. Water Medium: '4c. Mix 1 c. Water Thick: %c. Mix 1 c. Water POTATOES AU GRATIN 2 c. Cooked potatoes (cooled and cubed) % to 1 c. Cubed cheese 1 c. Prepared white sauce mix Layer potatoes, cubed cheese, and white sauce mix alternately in a 1-quart greased casserole. Bake at 350° until heated through and cheese begins to melt. CREAMED TUNA 2 c. Prepared white sauce 1 can tuna 1 c. Cooked peas (drained) grated onion pimento Combine ingredients, over hot biscuits. Heat and serve 34 BISCUIT MIX 8c. Sifted flour Y%, c. Double-action baking powder 4 tsp. Salt. 1% c. Shortening Sift baking powder and salt with 2 cups of flour into a large mixing bowl. Add remaining 6 cups of flour. Stir. Drop shortening by spoonfuls on top of flour mixture. Cut in shortening with mixer at low speed till mixture looks like coarse meal. Store in covered container. Makes about 11 cups (2% Ibs.) Do not refrigerate. Will keep 6 to 8 weeks in your cupboard. Recipe may be doubled. Mix in large roasting pan. Biscuit mix may be used in any recipes calling for commercial biscuit mix. Y o \ "a BISCUITS 2% c. Homemade biscuit mix 7% c. Milk Stir milk into biscuit mix. (Mixture should be soft.) Turn onto pastry cloth or board, dusted with biscuit mix. Knead gently 2 or 3 strokes. Pat or roll out %2" thick. Cut with floured cutter. Bake on ungreased cookie sheet, 425°, 12 to 15 minutes. Makes 12 to 15 biscuits. Quick Mixes of Your Own PANCAKES COOKIE MIX 2 eggs, beaten 8 all Purpose flour (sifted) SP. Sugar 4% ¢ S le milk 4 SP. Salt Cc. Homemade biscuit mix 1% SP. Sod Ad Suga milk to €8gs. Stir in bis. Cc Shortening Cult mix Ix Only unti| thorough} dam bubbles Start to break. Mix dry N8redients together Drop Short a S about 16 ening on top bY spoonfuls. Blend at low Me€dium-size Pancakes, Speed of i ixer tip even| blend d; Scrape sig 4nd bo tom of DINNER. IN. A ROLL bow! Frequent; efrigerate kie mix will keep 6 eeks j 1. ] tbsp butter = your Cupboard. To Measure, Spoon lightly! Aa Ped green Pepper into Measuring Cup, leve| with Spatula If Weather Causes lumps to rm, stir " Cooked Mashed Potatoes with fork before Measuring. 2% © Chopped celery or Carrots 2 tbsp. Melted butter Unbeaten egg % tsp. Pepper % tsp, Salt PEANUT BUTTERNUTS 3. Ibe &round beef 3c¢ homemade Cookie mix tsp. Salt Y% ¢. (Packed) brown Sugar Y, tsp. Pepper 1 tsp. Vanilla %¢. Chopped Onion 2 eggs.. Tyl Nut butter Mix €ach of aboy, S€parate| ake 1 2 C chunk-style = recipe biscuit dough and rol} Out into 3 Heat oven to 375 Square Pread e Xture on dough j aspoonf about 114" t on un roll and bake hot oven (400°) for 1 reased cookie Sheet. Press flat with Our and 10 minutes Serve hot with tines of fork ipped in flour Bake at OmMato say 375° about nutes, unti brown Remove at onc to rack 0 Cool, Makes CINNAMON ROLLS about 4 — 1 gg, Slightly beaten 3 bsp. 5 73. Milk 2c homemade biscuit mix 1 tbsp, butter or Substitute CHOCO-cHip DROPS %¢ Seedless raisins or Chopped dates 3 c¢ homemade Cookie mix Yc. Chopped walnuts 1 tbsp. Milk 'bsp. Sugar I" tsp. Vanitiz tbsp cinnamon egg | IX first Nredients together until 1% ¢. Chopped nuts Oard or PasJ] C. (6 oz. Pkg.) Se€Mi-sweet Chocolate i Pieces: eEMaining in. Heat Oven to 375 °. Mix first 4 8redients together for fillin ] - Sprinkle by hand Or electric Mixer until s r jelly roll. Fluffy. Stir in nuts an 35 January 1970 DATE CLUSTERS 3 c. Homemade cookie mix 1% tsp. Vanilla 1 egg lc. Cut-up dates % cc. Chopped nuts % c. (packed) brown sugar Heat oven to 375°. Mix first 3 ingredients by hand or electric mixer until smooth and fluffy. Mix together dates, nuts, and brown sugar; stir into batter. Drop by small spoonfuls about 1" apart on ungreased cookie sheet. Bake at 375° for 10 to 12 minutes until light brown. Remove at once to rack to cool. Makes 4% to 5 dozen. CAKE MIX 8 c. Sifted cake flour 5 c. Sugar Y% c. Double-acting baking power 4 tsp. Salt 2c. Shortening Mix dry ingredients. Drop shortening by spoonfuls onto dry ingredients. Blend at low speed of electric mixer or cut in with pastry blender till consistency of corn meal, scraping bowl and beaters frequently. Makes 14 cups, enough for 4 two-layer cakes. To store, keep in tightlycovered container at room temperature. Do not refrigerate. Cake mix will keep 6 weeks in your cupboard; several months, if stored in cool, dark place. To measure: Do not sift cake mix. Spoon lightly into measuring cup; do not pack. Level with spatula. VANILLA QUICK CAKE Have ingredients at room temperature. Use two 8" round pans. Line bottoms with plain paper (not wax). Do not grease or flour. 3% c. Homemade cake mix %q cc. Milk 1% tsp. Vanilla 2 eggs Combine milk and vanilla; add half to cake mix. Beat 2 minutes at medium speed of electric mixer (or 300 strokes by hand). Add remaining milk and eggs. Beat 2 minutes more. Turn into prepared pans. Bake at 375° about 25 minutes. Cool in pans on rack 10 minutes then turn out on rack. 36 SPICY APPLESAUCE CAKE Use two 8" round pans. Line with plain paper (not wax), do not grease pans. Have ingredients at room temperature. 32 c. Homemade cake mix Y2 tsp. Soda 1 tsp. Cinnamon Y, tsp. Cloves Y_ tsp. Allspice Y%, tsp. Nutmeg lc. Canned applesauce 2 eggs Stir together cake mix, soda, and spices. Add slightly over half the applesauce. Beat 2 minutes at medium speed of electric mixer (or 300 strokes by hand). Add remaining applesauce and eggs. Beat 2 minutes more. Turn into prepared pans. Bake at 375° about 25 minutes. Cool in pans on rack 10 minutes, then turn out on rack. PINEAPPLE UPSIDE-DOWN CAKE Have ingredients at room temperature. Heat oven to 350°. Topping: Melt 3 tablespoons butter or substitute in 8" x 8" x 2" pan. Cover evenly with % c. (packed) brown sugar. Over sugar arrange 5 or 6 well-drained pineapple slices and maraschino cherries. Make batter: 243 c. Homemade cake mix Yo c. Milk 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 egg Combine milk and vanilla; add half to cake mix. Beat 2 minutes at medium speed of electric mixer (or 300 strokes by hand). Add remaining milk and egg. Beat 2 minutes more. Pour over fruit in pan. Bake about 40 minutes. Cool in pan 3 or 4 minutes, then turn out on serving plate. PEACH UPSIDE-DOWN CAKE Follow recipe above, making these substitutions: In topping, use canned peaches instead of pineapple. In batter reduce vanilla to % tsp. And add % tsp. Almond flavoring. Betty Jan Murphy Linda and I took our time reaching MIA class on that memorable night long ago. We slipped into the ladies' room to comb our hair, emerging after an interval with appropriate giggles and teenage chatter.... New teacher tonight. As we entered the classroom, we regarded it with suspicion. There were two small tables in the room carefully draped with cloths. These cloths seemed less ornamental than useful, for bulges and bumps tattled the presence of secret objects beneath them. Sister Milton, the new teacher, smiled a greeting and eased the restless girls into the lesson immediately after prayer. This lesson was a practical one on meals and table etiquette. We all listened with interest, but the high point came when Sister Milton removed the cloths from the mysterious tables. Both were set for dinner. But, oh what a dramatic difference! In the center of one table was a loaf of bread, a carton of milk, the salt and pepper shakers, and a bottle of catsup. The plates, glasses, and utensils were not attractive, they did not match nor complement each other. The other table was set simply but elegantly. A modest floral centerpiece of blue and white garden flowers attracted our attention. The bread was on a plate, the milk in a pitcher. The patterns on the china, glass«vare, and silver were tastefully enhanced by one another. "At which table would you like to be a guest?" Sister Milton asked. We didn't need to answer. | "Always set a good table," our teacher re-emphasized. Through the years I have carried the image of those tables in my mind. A colored place mat, a seasonal centerpiece, a sprig of parsley are little bits of elegance which make a world of difference! THOUGHTS OF AN EARTH-BOUND WIFE | stand in wondrous awe of you Who say, with singular authority, The moon's not blue, Whose feet have trodden lunar soil, Who shoot through space while | do kitchen toil. Those famous feet now rest beneath my table. The world is yours. Will ever | be able To bring my earth-bound self to someday speak (To you) Of homely things, such as a faucet leak! —Leanor J. Brown 37 a - TESTIMONY ME ETING Anna Kivekas Nokia, F inland 4 =) gw "In the Relief Society Ihave to listen to our inspiring lessons. Learned so much: 1 have learned And I am particularly thankful good food for My family, to take classesThey give of their time pride in 4 clean and nice home. And they give of themselves. - - iy Its cleanliness depends on me, on Yes, surely, Beda Virtanen my work. And when J thank thought again, surely that sister Heavenly Father for my children, is happy to be here, with those 1 also thank him for Relief Sobad legs of hers and purdened ciety, where 1 have learned SO with age as she is, I suppose she many useful things about how doesn't get ground too much. To rear and teach children." Why don't I feel the same as she With bent head and downcast about the Jessons, to me they to the young sister testifyingOh, again. Oh, why doesn't anyone But now, with the children all « _. And particularly I wish gone to make their ow? Homes 0 express My thankfulness that I and her husband still a nonmay be 4 member of the Relief member, and especially since she Society. When I come here to had returned to full-time work, meeting it is like stepping into now Relief Society seemed SO disanother world, or at least quite tant, somehow, 35 if it did not another atmosphere. Oh, it ls S0 concern her any more. Well, she difficult for me to explain, but had not been to meetings for a you, sisters, will surely underlong time --- how long was it stand, when I tell you that what really? Three years. + yes, for 1 experience here with you ls three whole years. She had not something [have experienced only been to 4 single Relief Society when as 4 child I was visiting meeting. She almost wished she my grandmother. In her home had not come this time either. There was warmth and security: « |] am so thankful for you Oh, yes; that I felt in our own all, my sisters --° it is such a home, t0°, but at Grandma's pleasure to me to come here and there was something more, 4 feeling of festivity because I was wearing my good clothes, and Mother had told me to behave, and Grandma served her best cookies, and there was a shining white cloth on the table. Grandmother has long been out of this world and it is a long time since I was a child, but that feeling I have experienced anew here in Relief Society. I am_ thankful that I may be here, that I may learn and develop along with you sisters."' But I am not one of you! I don't learn anything new, I am an outsider, I am alone. Beda Virtanen frowned with violent emotion. Suddenly she became aware of the deep silence in the room. Nervously she looked up and met the gaze of the Relief Society president. The president nodded to her kindly and encouragingly. Beda Virtanen rose. "IT wish to express thankfulness to my Heavenly Father that I, too, have a testimony of the gospel," she began in a very formal voice. "For a long time I have not been to meetings, but all the time I have known—and I know now—that this is Christ's own Church, that David O. McKay is the prophet of the Lord." Her voice softened. "A long time ago, when I used regularly to attend meetings I felt like you do It was so wonderful here..." Her voice became muffled and she finished quickly, "I am happy that I have been able to come here again... In spite of all." The meeting was over and the sisters were leaving, chatting happily. Beda Virtanen delayed her going by putting her books carefully into her bag. She did Testimony Meeting not want to go with the others, she would have nothing to say to anyone. "Sister Virtanen." The Relief Society president sat down on the empty chair beside her: "There is something I'd like to talk to you about." "Ves?" "Well, perhaps you have heard that Sister Kantola is moving to another town? In fact, today she gave the lesson for the last time in this branch. We haven't as yet a new leader for the spiritual living class, so now I ask you— the branch president agrees— would you be willing to accept that assignment?" Beda Virtanen was surprised. She did not know what to say. The president continued: "I have a feeling that in you we would get another good class leader like Sister Kantola, atid we will all be happy if you accept." "Well " said Beda Virtanen slowly, "thanks for your confidence.... Do you really think I could.?" "Yes, we do indeed. We are sure of it. So we can trust you to take care of the lesson next month?" "Ye-es "Good. And thank you. But there is another matter. Sister Kantola has also been a visiting teacher. Could you perhaps replace her in that capacity, too?" But afterwards Beda Virtanen could not understand why she had accepted the assignments. If she had not been so surprised she would most certainly have refused. But since she had promised, there was hardly anything else she could do than to give it a try at least. Bd 33 January 1970 Three months later Beda Virtanen once again sat listening to the sisters' testimonies. She had given the lesson, and she knew she had done it well. She felt calm and serene. When she arose to testify, she felt as if she wanted to burst out singing. "T am thankful to my Heavenly Father for my opportunity to serve. In his wisdom he has given us a Society, the success of which depends on each and every, member, on our willingness to serve, on our ability to cooperate. A sister once expressed thankfulness for the sisters who serve as class leaders. For my part, I wish to express my deep gratitude and thankfulness that I am one of those who have been called to serve in that capacity. It has been a blessing to me it is so still, it is every time so rewarding. While serving others we forget ourselves." Looking down at her own hands the Relief Society president sat listening, nodding thoughtfully to herself. He Fixed It Himself Cora Hill Arnold @ He was only six and he knew his father could fix everything. So when his bicycle broke down, instead of crying, he waited for his father to come home. The wise father looked at the problem and said, "Tommy, I can fix this for you in just a few minutes, but you will still not know how it is done. So I will show you how and you mend it yourself. Then the next time your bicycle breaks down, you will know just what to do." The boy grew day by day and, finally, reached manhood. His problems were many and much greater then. And one day the boy—now a man—had a most serious problem. What could he do? What decision should he make? He longed to talk with his father, but he was gone now. So he went to his Heavenly Father in humility and asked him to fix it for him, so everything would come out all nght and his problem would be solved. And as he prayed he seemed to hear these words: "My son, I cannot take away your problem, for it would make you weak, and you would never know how to solve other problems. But, if you will listen closely, I will help you to think for yourself, and you will be able to find a solution. Then next time it will be a little easier, for you will be stronger." 40 Hobby Features Clara Shipley, of Riverdale Second Ward, Ogden, Utah, has used her creativity and talent to fashion many beautiful articles of handwork. She has made over forty appliqué quilts, and the pillowcases, tablecloths, aprons, and other articles number into the thousands. Much of this work has been donated to Relief Society for bazaars. She is also most gracious about baking delicious pies for various occasions. Sister Shipley had five children. There are eleven grandchildren and thirteen greatgrandchildren all of whom have received loving portions of her exquisite handwork. Ive alee ™ by: parece. Ra # |. Eaten several varieties. Her quilts have graced weddings, baby showers, and other events, as well as bazaars, for many years. In serving as quilting chairman in Relief Society, she has passed her talent on to others who were eager to learn it. Her husband has been a great heip to her quilting endeavors by cutting the materials. She in turn works in the yard with him. She also does her own canning and is an excellent cook. There are five children in her family, fifteen grandchildren, twenty-four great-grandchildren, and one great-great grandchild, all of whom have been kept warm at first by baby quilts, later by large ones. 41 Words for the New Year om a Ward Relet Society President Ruth Osman w The beginning of a New Year is upon us. May we as your Relief Society presidency put to you this challenge: A 'self'? Is not something we are given at birth, it is something we are creating as We live our day-by-day life. Whatever that self shall be, barren or productive, depends upon the interests We reach and achieve. The greatest achievement is the making of ourselves. God gives US a New Year, a new month, a new day—each minute, if you will, to take and work something worthwhile into our lives. Can we afford to miss one gift, one opportunity, one second of this New Year? We sincerely pray that each one of us may create our best ''self.'' Relief Society is one of these tools, may we each use it and be able to put our best ''self'' forward. A MINIATURE LOAF OF BREAD A loaf of bread was magic exposed To a young boy's watchful eyes: Hot from the oven—homely composed, Evoked pleasure in anxious sighs. But the miniature loaf seemed his very own, To him, a succulent prize— it was cooled and wrapped in new cellophane He guarded it—saying goodbyes. When he got to his home and was readied for bed— On his pillow rested the prize; Was it only a miniature loaf of bread Or a love-tokened gift, in disguise? —Beulah Huish Sadleir 42 Chapter 8 (conclusion) m "My father is dying in this alien land," said Kim in anguish. They were at the emergency division of their doctor's hospital, where he had met them after a dash by ambulance from their home. The first concern of all of them was, of course, for Father Freeman's mending hip bone. They hung on Dr. Judd's word, and were relieved at his report. "The bone seems to be all right. We'll take extensive X-rays tomorrow. Just now he is dehydrating from the nausea, and from too little intake of fluids the last while." This smote Mary Ann with guilt. Things had moved too fast for her and Kim through Rosemary's and Cary's wedding. "We should have hired a nurse for him through all this," she said. "This was my responsibility," said Kim. "You had your hands full." 'There was the pinched look of a dying animal about him when the nurse let them into his room, a little emergency bed off the main office. She was fixing a bottle to a standard and she inserted a needle into his arm, taped it to a board and left the room, saying: "He'll be all right here until the doctor sees if he needs hospitalization." His eyes were closed and he looked very much like death it- -—— self. Kim rarely wept, but he was weeping now, his face immobile, but the tears flooding his face, furrowing down to drop off his chin. "Speak to me, Dad," he pleaded. "T'll take you home again as soon as you are well, and you'll never have to leave there again, I promise." How could Kim make such a promise? Touched as Mary Ann was at her husband's anguish and the plight of her father-inlaw, this time she did not kneel beside the bed and augment that promise, as she had kneeled by Father Freeman's chair last October when Kim invited his father home "untilspring." Such a promise was too hard to keep, as the other one had been hard, too hard, perhaps, for they were not yet through with the consequences. The spring had come and gone and he was still here. To Mary Ann's surprise Kim's promise had a reviving effect on his father, who opened his eyes, and looked straight and clear into his son's gaze. "Thank you, Kim," he said. "The roses are 43 January 1970 in bloom for Rosemary now." He had written a painstaking letter to Emily and Francine and their husbands as early as April, instructing them to have everything is readiness for the honeymooning couple. Letters had come to assure him the house and yard had been cleaned and made attractive. Victor had gone farther. He had stocked the kitchen with essential food, and it would be like walking into their own domain. Rosemary and Cary would have a wonderful beginning to their marriage in that sweet place, the place where her parents and her grandparents before her had started theirs. The promise had been given and accepted, Mary Ann knew. Now how to keep it. Again, Kim had acted without thinking of her, and this time Mary Ann felt more than a twinge of resentment, as they sat and watched Kim's father, who now seemed asleep. It was amazing as they watched to see the blueness leave his face, the pinched look flesh out and the pink come back to his lips. Maybe, with the care they could give him now, he would be all right. If only Kim had not promised or that his father had not heard that promise! But Kim had promised, and that was that. He had his father's determination when it came to keeping a promise. Yet he had seemed truly sorry to have acted before without previously consulting Mary Ann. That time he had followed his impulse, it was true, but she had been so much in accord with his feelings that it was her impulse, too. This time it was not. There were too 44 many things to be accomplished before it could be remotely. Possible for Kim to take his father home. In the first place, Kim's vacation would not come immediately. Rosemary and Cary planned at least a two-week stay, and maybe longer. When she brought these things up to Kim he said: "I didn't mean a visit, Mary Ann. I meant to live." "Kim! How could you?" Mary Ann said. "Without so much as consulting me? I feel injured, Kim, very injured at your lack of thought for me and for the family." "T meant to consult you, dear, for us to plan it together, but with Dad seeming near death there was no time." "Well!" said Mary Ann doubtfully. "I'm certainly open to discussion." "But closed to suggestion?" ventured Kim. "T suppose so, Kim," said Mary Ann relaxing. Kim could always do this to her, make her see she was unbending. "What suggestion? Your job—this place..." "How about me quitting my job, selling this place and us moving to Utah?" "Kim Freeman, are you out of your mind?" "You think about it, honey, I have been ever since Mr. Shelton made Dad that offer. If Dad's place is good enough for a retirement home for him it should be for us. All the men in the shop talk about all day is getting some little place like that, away from it all, close to hunting and fishing and all that. It is mostly talk and wishful thinking with them. We could do it, and it would be a way of taking Dad back home for the rest of his life." "Retire? You retire, Kim?" "Why not. I'm retirement age, you know. Mr. Shelton is, and he is no older than I am. Besides, he will have his son take over, and I never could get along with that whipper-snapper. I looked for a garage in Mayville and there is none. I could put up one, make enough to keep us going." "But this house, the mortgage?" "We have twelve thousand dollars equity in this house, Mary Ann. You can see yourself we can't pay off the other thirteen thousand on my wages. We stand to lose it all if something happens and we can't make the payments. With our equity we could put two thirds of it in trust or on interest and save it for the time when the girls will want their share of Dad's estate, then pay them off and keep it." "The children." said Mary Ann in a small voice, as she had reserved the most important argument for the last. "The children? James and Carol have already moved to Hawaii. Utah is no farther from Hawaii than Los Angeles, the way they travel. Jennifer and her family are already packed to go. They'd have been gone now except for Rosemary's wedding. Richard and Heidi will be in New York and goodness knows where Tommy will be. If he accepts that offer from the University of Alaska, and if Rosemary and Cary go to Houston, where are the children?" "There's still Barbara," said Mary Ann. Heart Room for Home "Just enough reason to spend our vacations in California and | for them to come to. Mayville for theirs." - "Kim, I feel weak," said Mary Ann, and sat down. He had demolished every argument she had. "But selling this place! You just can't walk out and sell a place like this in five minutes." "T know that, honey. It might take months, but if Dad had it to look forward to." "Kim, I can't just change that fast. The ward, here, our friends —it would be going back to an old way of living—at our age." "We have some good friends in Mayville. Remember how we hated to leave them? A ward is the same all over the Church. People come and go here, too, you know. Nothing stays the same; everything passes." KX im's sad words "Everything passes" haunted Mary Ann for days. Looking back gave one that sense. How could it have been so painless—and so final? The children growing up. What would she give for one hour of them as babies? As little ones coming to the house for bandaids and a kiss to make them well, their falling in love, marrying, and then the grandbabies. Now Barbara's children would follow the same cycle—she had noticed Kirby eyeing the girls who served at Rosemary's wedding, little sisters of her friends, Cary's younger sisters. Everything passes. Enjoy it while you may, but don't look back. This place, now? They had lived here for fourteen years. Had she enjoyed it? Certainly nothing could top their enjoy- 45 January 1970 ment of it at Rosemary's reception. Everything else was anticlimax. She would remember it forever, but would she ever want to repeat the experience? Not without another daughter to marry the man of her choice. When Tommy married the reception would be from some other house. No, this house had served them well, but now it was too much. Too much room and too much expense. It was good to have Father Freeman in the hospital for the few days of Tommy's graduation —their last son coming down the ramp from the platform where he received his diploma, their last son in cap and gown. There were too many last things just now, and they almost overwhelmed Mary Ann. "IT know," said Kim, reading her mind again, as he had before they had all become too hysterically busy to think. "Will we be always living a memory, Kim?" "Tt hope not,- Mary Ann. I went through this weeks ago, when the idea first hit me. Now I am anxious and eager to start a new life, a new life for ourselves. It can be pretty full, you know, the way I look at it." "What happened to Lizbeth?" Mary Ann suddenly remembered. Tommy's answer was not the same now as it used to be. Mary Ann was not prepared for the pain in Tommy's face. "Her soldier boy came back from Vietnam," was all he said. A man had to be prepared for the choice the girl might make. "Ts it final, then?" "IT don't know, Mother dear. There was never any promise on 46 her part—to me, that is. She wouldn't make any, with him overseas, except that if her answer to me was yes, she would call me." "You've changed your mind about a good many things, haven't you, Tommy? You have made it a matter of prayer?" "Yes, Mother," answered Tommy soberly and went to his room. The telephone rang and it was for Kim, Emily calling from Mayville, because, of course, they had called her and Francine to tell them about their father being in the hospital. "We're bringing him home tomorrow, Emily, and he is going to be fine.... What's that? No, you don't need to be prepared for his death. Dad's going to live As long as he wants to, I guess. At least until he gets his feet on his own land, that's for sure." Kim spoke at length about his father's condition, reassuring both his sisters. Francine had gone over to Emily's for the conversation. "Now, you two girls give way and let me talk to Victor. Say, Victor, that was a nice thing you folks did for Rosemary and her husband. We appreciate it and we know they do, too. Victor, is it true that the interstate highway is cutting through a corner of Dad's meadow? Good. No, that's not bad. It's good. Ill tell you later." "Why didn't you tell them we are moving there?" asked Mary Ann when he hung up. Kim looked her full in the face. "Because you hadn't told me, sweetheart?" "You mean it wasn't all cut and dried, that you were waiting for my decision?" "Exactly! You've kept me on tenter hooks for a week, my dear, but I was going to press you for an answer before tomorrow. I had to know what to tell Dad." "You would have broken your word to him if I didn't approve of your idea?" "What do you think? You had me in the same situation Eve had Adam," Kim answered. "By the way, that question I asked Victor. Can you imagine a better spot for a garage than that corner of Dad's meadow? Know something else? You remember one of the men from the shop asking about this place?" "Yes, I do, now that you mention it. Both he and his wife made flattering remarks about our place." "It wasn't flattery, dear. He meant it. Great things are coming about at the garage since Mr. Shelton is leaving. We will now have a president—his son, and a vice-president, John Shane, the man who came to Rosemary's wedding. With this prospect he wants me to sell him this place. What do you say?" "That's wonderful. We'd better sell, don't you think, Kim?" "That's not all," said Kim. "They are getting new machinery and when I asked what was to become -of the old—the stuff I've worked with for the last twenty years, some of it, Mr. Shelton said it was obsolete and he would probably junk it. I asked for an option and got it. I can do anything with that machinery. I'd be lost with the new—at least for awhile." "Kim, it looks as if everything Heart Room for Home was meant to turn out this way," said Mary Ann. "I'm beginning to think of that wonderful old rock house of Dad's, and what we can do with it. Do you think that window?" The telephone ringing interrupted Mary Ann. It was for Tommy, a timid little voice Mary Ann hardly recognized as_belonging to Lizbeth. Tommy bounded out of his room when his mother told him who it was. He said only one word: "Yes?" then looked at his watch. "T'll be there in exactly thirteen minutes freeway time," he said; and literally ran out the door, calling back: "She decided for me. Lizbeth is mine!" "This must be the evening of feminine decisions," said Kim dryly. "Dad, we're going home," he told his father jubilantly. When they got to the hospital. "Yes, I know, but it won't be the same without Rosemary, will it?" "IT mean home to Mayville. Just as soon as you can evict your present tenants. Mary Ann and I are selling out here and coming to live with you, if that's all right with you." "Oh, now! I didn't mean to upset anybody. Are you sure, Kim?" "I've been sure for a long time, Dad. Just waiting for Mary Ann to get used to the idea." "Now don't help me. I can walk by myself," Father Freeman told Kim. "Now, Mary Ann, is this going to put you out?" "No, Dad. It took me just a little more time. I had to move a number of things over to make heart room for it, that's all." 47 Directions for Submitting Notes From the Field The Notes From the Field section of The Relief Society Magazine presents through pictures and descriptive paragraphs the varied group activities and accomplishments of Relief Society organizations in the stakes and missions of the Church. All material for this department should be addressed to the Editorial Department of The Relief Society Magazine, and be submitted by stake Relief Society presidents or mission supervisors. Due to space restrictions, not more than one picture from a stake or mission can be presented during a calendar year. Pictures of an individual cannot be used in this department. Due to the considerable duplication of some special aspects of Relief Society work in the material submitted by stakes and missions, the General Board reserves the right to select pictures which represent a variety of interests. Time of Submission The picture, with complete information, should be submitted as soon after the event as possible, but cannot be used in the Magazine if it is received later than two months after the event. Information to Be Included The date of the event should be listed, and the names of Relief Society officers and others who have fulfilled special assignments with reference to the function or event should be listed. A woman's given name and her last name should be used, not her husband's given name (i. E., Ellen Jackson, not Sister Fred Jackson). In the case of a Singing Mothers group, the names of the chorister and the accompanist, as well as stake and ward officers present, should be given. Do not list more than fifteen names for any one picture. The identifications should read from left to right. No information except the name of the stake or mission written lightly so as not to deface the picture should be given on the back of the picture. Additional information may be included in the letter of submittal or written on a separate page. Preparations for Taking Picture It is suggested that wherever possible a professional photographer be engaged to take the picture. In arranging the group to have the picture taken, be sure that all the faces are visible. Seat the sisters in short rows, so that the faces will be in focus. Where handwork or food is displayed, special attention in arranging the background will be helpful, as light-colored articles will not show up well against a light background. Black and White Prints Required Black and white prints, preferably in glossy finish, are needed for Notes From the Field. Prints should be clear, with definite contrast and detail. Color pictures are not used in this section. Do not submit negatives, kodachromes, transparencies, or color prints. Size of Picture Through processes available at the press, pictures can be enlarged or reduced in size to fit the space available. However, reproductions of small pictures are not as effective as those made from larger prints—up to 8x10 inches in size may be used. 48 stake organist. \ siden, Grand Junctio was ou e (Utah), Sixth Ward Relief Society ing?" May 1969 1 ref Society Pasadena Fashion Show, May 1,1 Relief Society Board, left to right: Helen Dalquist;; mine Ballard, President, Arlene Miller; Helen Jones, Sister Ballard reports: \ hand-fashion opened with children winding the Maypole. Beautiful spring ith a small Maypole table was centered W fashion show displaying their fashion show." ed dresses pe flowers ador and flowers. E\ a ions, an January 1970 South Carolina West Stake Presents ''Gardening Helps"' At Homemaking Day, June 28, 1969 Helen Shaw, President, South Carolina West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Frances Bethune, our homemaking leader, decided that it would be appropriate to have our Homemaking Day around gardening this year, and it was most successful. Our sisters must travel great distances, but they brought the materials for seven displays with them. "'We had a formal garden, patio, rock garden, vegetables, porch, a quiet nook in a garden, and an old-fashioned garden. In addition to these displays, the sisters were asked to bring floral arrangements for the luncheon tables, decorating around a red, white, and blue Independence Day theme, and we were amazed at the talent displayed here. It was a most successful event. The theme was appropriate—''Beautify Your Corner of America.'' North Central States Misson Relief Society Sponsors Leadership Conference, May 24, 1969 Members of the North Central States Mission Relief Society Board, front row, second from left: Colleen Johnson, Magazine representative; Jean Marie Didra, Secretary-Treasurer; Mary B. Ostvig, President; Margaret Ann Abbott, First Counselor; Carmen Lee Dahlgren, Second Counselor; Olga Hansen, visiting teacher message leader. Inset: Marguerite Satterfield, former Mission Relief Society supervisor. Remaining sisters are district executive officers. Sister Satterfield reports: ''Training sessions for the executive officers of the various districts in the mission are proving to be very successful and beneficial. They are held three times each year, and the districts are encouraged to hold them for their branch executives. "A different phase of leadership is discussed by each of the board members. There are. Group activities, and special inspirational words from priesthood leadership. It is a very successful program and has greatly advanced the work of Relief Society in the mission."'; Virginia B. King is the new Relief Society Supervisor in the North Central States Mission. SS care Pe a Se Illinois Stake Relief Society Presents ''Things Lovely'' April 5, 1969 Mary Dyson, visiting teacher message leader, Champaign Ward, and Esstel Flint, President, Farmer City Ward Relief Society. Marnette R. Woolley, President, Illinois Stake Relief Society, reports: ''At our leadership meeting in April we presented a program with the theme 'Things Lovely.' "A wide variety of items was shown including ceramics, afghans, quilts, needlepoint, and crewel embroidery. A special feature of the display was the oil paintings completed during a special class taught as a homemaking project in the Champaign Ward. Sister Claudia Peterson, an experienced art teacher, volunteered her services and each homemaking meeting those sisters interested spent the work time learning to oil paint. Other activities were always available for sisters not wishing to paint. This was a very popular activity, and some beautiful paintings were done. 'Refreshments were served by the stake board and a social hour followed. All who attended were inspired to create lovely things for their homes.'' 52 a ) *: 2 4S 4 January 1970 Western Canadian Mission Relief Society Holds Conference April 26, 1969 Members of the Regina Branch, South Saskatchewan District Relief Society, who modeled fashions they had made, front row, seated, left to right: Maisie Dodman; Beth Spackman, daughter of President N. Eldon Tanner; Mary Bailey; Velma Collins; Ruth Skriver. Back row, standing, left to right: Eileen Tondevold, Evelyn Pilling, Lettie Preete, Wanda Matheson, Gayla Jacobs, Pat Boecks, Gerry Wetton, eamie Ursenbach, Elena Morse, Elsie James, June Mullen. LaNore D. Espenschied, Supervisor, Western Canadian Misson Relief Society, reports: ''We held our first mission Relief Society conference, and it was very successful. The theme was 'Harmony in the Home,' and a copy of a talk by President David O. McKay, with this title was given to each sister. "Many of the sisters had to travel great distances to attend the conference. Members in Edmonton, Alberta, opened their homes to these sisters and their husbands who attended with them. It was an inspiration to see so many Lamanite sisters. There was an outstanding general session, and departmental sessions where there were films, demonstrations, and information. Following these there were displays and a fashion show in the cultural hall. "The conference was closed with the film 'Unto the Least of These,' and a very impressive testimony meeting. The sisters gained much uplift from this conference and had a very enjoyable time to remember." Grand Coulee Stake (Washington) Honors Visiting Teachers May 15, 1969 Front row, seated: Cleotha Smith, Othello Ward, who has served twenty years as a visiting teacher; Lucy Christensen, Royal Ward, thirty years; Melinda Goodrich, Moses Lake Fourth Ward, twenty years; Nellie Chapman, Moses Lake Second Ward, thirty-two years; Mae Eaton, Moses Lake First, fifty-three years. Back row, left to right: Alta Duvall, Moses Lake Third Ward, forty-six years; Aurilla Christensen, Royal Ward (one of the two youngest visiting teachers); Rosemary Bishop, Moses Lake Ward (youngest visiting teacher); Fern Zirker, Warden Ward, twenty-eight years. Inset: Mabel Roylance, Othello Second Ward, fifty-five years service. Eileen S. Peterson, President, Grand Coulee Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A tribute to our visiting teachers was held in the stake center. A delicious luncheon was followed by a spiritual program in their honor. Special recognition was given to the sisters who had the longest record of service, also to the two youngest visiting teachers present. "The Moses Lake Third Ward was honored for having the most visiting teachers in attendance. They received a beautiful floral arrangement as a tribute." January 1970 a yg se BN is ARO ARLE Sell SER 8. NN Humbolt Stake (Nevada), Elko Second Ward Presents Bazaar May 2, 1969 Elaine Dicks, President, Humboit Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The emphasis of the bazaar presented in the Elko Second Ward was on good old Mormon cooking. There was much food to be bought and it was enjoyed by all. The theme was centered around the Maypole. There were several booths focused around the youth, from tiny tot to the teens. Our 'Olde Bake Shoppe' was popular also. A highly successful bazaar was made possible by the hard work of the many involved and the desire of ward members to contribute through purchases. Decoration chairman was Patricia Scott. The presidency of this ward consists of Joyce Giles, Edithdell Black, and Gwen Petersen." a 56 Lesson Department ® = SPIRITUAL LIVING ' The Doctrine and Covenants F L | _ Lesson 103 Another of Joseph Smith's Contributions— Pearl of Great Price: Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Meeting, September 1970 OBJECTIVE: To increase the Latter-day Saint woman's testimony that the Pearl of Great Price was brought forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith through divine inspiration and to enlarge her understanding of God's eternal plan. INTRODUCTION In evaluating the work of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Elder John Taylor said that the Prophet had done more for the salvation of men in this world than any man in it except Jesus Christ. (D&C 135:3.) Among the reasons for this evaluation were The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, and, as Elder Taylor added: ",.. Many other wise documents and instructions for the benefit 99 of the children of men. Among these wise documents is the Pearl of Great Price, a book of modern and ancient scripture. It consists of four parts: The Book of Moses, the Book of Abraham, Writings of Joseph Smith (consisting of two parts), and the Articles of Faith. THE BOOK OF MOSES In June 1830, the Lord revealed some visions received by 57 January 1970 Moses anciently. (Moses 1.) The remaining seven chapters of the Book of Moses were given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in December 1830. Much is restored in this book which is not recorded in the Bible. The Lord revealed to Moses his dealings with Adam, Adam's fall and redemption, the premortality of men, the period in which Enoch reared a generation in righteousness, and Noah's ministry. From this revelation has come renewed information about the plan of salvation. THE BOOK OF ABRAHAM The Book of Abraham, the second book of scripture in the Pearl of Great Price, came into Joseph Smith's possession in an unusual way. Some Egyptian mummies, discovered in Egypt by Antonio Sebolo in the year 1831, were purchased by members of the Church in July 1835, from their owner Michael H. Chandler, who was exhibiting them in the United States. With these mummies were some papyrus rolls upon which were inscribed ancient hieroglyphics. To the great joy of the Prophet it was learned that one of the rolls contained the writings of Abraham, another the writings of Joseph of Egypt. Joseph Smith translated the ancient writings of Abraham, which now constitute the Book of Abraham. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, Vol. 2, pp. 235-36, 348-51 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) On Monday, November 27, 58 1967, in a special ceremony at the New York Metropolitan Museum of Art, eleven papyrus pieces once owned by the Prophet Joseph Smith were presented to President N. Eldon Tanner of the First Presidency. (Church News, December 2, 1967, p. 7.) The best information available to the Church for almost one hundred years was that the papyri and the mummies upon which they were found were destroyed in the Chicago fire of 1871. The recovered papyri are only portions of the material possessed by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The well-preserved facsimile No. 1 of the Book of Abraham is a part of the collection. An interesting incident in connection with Joseph Smith and the papyrus rolls occurred upon their discovery by Mr. Chandler in the United States Customs house at New York City. He was immediately told, while yet in the custom house, that there was no man in that city who could translate his roll: but was referred, by the same gentleman, (a stranger,) to Mr. Joseph Smith, Jun., who, continued he, possesses some kind of power or gifts, by which he had _ previously translated similar characters. (DHC 2:349.) For many thousands of years the Lord had preserved these writings that this dispensation might have the testimony of the Abrahamic dispensation concerning such important doctrines as the premortal existence of man, the creation, and the priesthood of God. WRITINGS OF JOSEPH SMITH This division of the Pearl of Great Price contains material relating to a revision of the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew, and the story of Joseph Smith's ancestry and early visions. In the revision of the twentyfourth chapter of Matthew, clarification is given to the events mentioned by the Savior in the New Testament about the signs of the times heralding the destruction of the Jews in the meridian dispensation and the calamities preceding the second coming of Christ in our dispensation. The difference between the two periods is clearly indicated in the revision of this chapter. (vs. 21-23.) THE ARTICLES OF FAITH In the Times and Seasons, a publication of the Church at Nauvoo, Illinois, on March 1, 1842, an article by the Prophet Joseph Smith appeared giving a short history of his life and also what are known as the Articles of Faith. This account was written to Mr. John Wentworth, editor and publisher of the Chicago Democrat, and has become known to the Church as the "Wentworth Letter." Elder James EK. Talmage wrote an outstanding book discussing these Articles of Faith. Elder B. H. Roberts gave the following comment regarding them: Millions of these "Articles of Faith" have been published; they have been translated into many languages and carried to all the nations of the earth and tribes of men where the New Dispensation of the gospel has been preached. They were not produced by the labored efforts and the harmonized contentions of scholastics, but were struck off by one mind at a single effort to make a declaration of that which is most assuredly believed by the church, for one making earnest inquiry about her history Lesson Department and her fundamental doctrines. The combined directness, perspicuity, simplicity and comprehensiveness of this statement of the doctrine of the church is regarded as strong evidence of a divine inspiration operating upon the mind of Joseph Smith. (A Comprehensive History of the Church, by B. H. Roberts, Vol. 2, p. 131.) Class Discussion Wherein does the Pearl of Great Price differ in its contents from the other standard works of the Church—Bible, The Book of Mormon, and the Doctrine and Covenants? JOSEPH SMITH'S FIRST VISION When one considers the claim of Joseph Smith to having been called of God to open the last dispensation of the gospel, one must believe that in the Prophet's works one will find inspiration and guidance to fulfill the purpose of life. The devout Latter-day Saint learns through his study that the contributions of the Prophet to the salvation of men in this world are significant because they raise men to greater heights of understanding and faith. The First Vision is one of the important revelations from God. Its message to all men is such that few can reasonably doubt the authenticity of the Vision. When compared with other recorded accounts. Of visions of God, this one stands out preeminently as of great worth, not only because of its detailed information but also because of its value as a witness to an unbelieving world of the reality of God's existence. Joseph Smith's testimony of the reality of the First Vision is convincing. (Writings of Joseph Smith 2: 24-25.) | January 1970 We learn of the following saving principles from the First Vision: First, the actual existence of God the Father as a personal Being. Joseph Smith saw God the Father "... Whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air." (Writings of Joseph Smith 2:17.) To know God as a personal Being is a prerequisite to eternal life. (John 17:3.) Second, Jesus is a resurrected Personage, separate and distinct from the Father. "One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!" (Writings of Joseph Smith 2:17.) Third, there is only one true Church. Joseph was told that he should join no church for they had all gone astray. (Joseph Smith 2:18-20.) Fourth, men may have the assurance that sincere prayer is answered. I was one day reading the Epistle of James, first chapter and fifth verse, which reads: If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. At length I came to the conclusion that I must either remain in darkness and confusion, or else I must do as James directs, that is, ask of God. I had found the testimony of James to be true—that a man who lacked wisdom might ask of God, and obtain, and not be upbraided. (Joseph Smith 2:11-13, 26.) In order to achieve salvation, man must "'askGod' forknowledge by which he may walk uprightly before him. (Moroni 10:3-7; D&C 103:36.) Joseph Smith's testimony of prayer and the reality of the future life furnish further reasons for faith in the efficacy of prayer in leading one to salvation. Class Discussion. Of what value is the knowledge of the First Vision to one's personal salvation? 60 THE GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST Among the contributions to salvation-knowledge from the Book of Moses and the Book of Abraham is the fact that the gospel principles of salvation taught by Jesus Christ were known from the days of Adam. Moses learned that faith, repentance, baptism by immersion, and the receiving of the gift of the Holy Ghost were taught to Adam and his posterity. (Moses 6:52.) The authority conferred upon _ worthy men to administer gospel ordinances gave the same validity to those ordinances anciently as it does today. (Abra. 1:2-4; 18, 31; 2:8-11.) Class Discussion Wherein is the justice of God indicated in the fact that the gospel of Jesus Christ was available to people before the time of Christ? Although the New Testament refers to the gospel among the Old Testament people, most "Christian" theologies have not held that people before the time of Christ had these saving principles and ordinances. Thus, the Pearl of Great Price makes a contribution to man's. Understanding of God's relationship with his children. If one knows that God is a personal Being, the Father of men, he accepts the truth that God is just and merciful because he _ blessed Adam and his posterity by providing them with salvation teachings. As revealed, God created man and gave him commandments, and when man broke those laws, the means was provided whereby man might be saved from the effects of sin. (D&C 20: | 17-29.) Men are saved by the same gospel in all ages of the world. Because of similarities in the "Christian" religion and nonChristian religions, some have claimed that Jesus "borrowed" from other religions to formulate his own. Since the gospel of Jesus Christ was known to Adam, it is no doubt true that other religions "borrowed" from those teachings. A WITNESS TO OTHER SCRIPTURES In a world of doubt and skepticism, many witnesses are provided to aid and assist those who will be helped. The consistency of teachings throughout the four standard books of scriptures is a testimony of the truths spoken therein. Each book of scripture may give a certain emphasis to one doctrine or teaching above another one, yet the similarity of teachings is remarkable. | The scriptures testify that God lives. The Pearl of Great Price contributes to this truth because of the experiences of Enoch, Moses, and Abraham, who saw and talked with God. (Moses 7:3-4; 1:2; Abra. 3:11-12.) CREATION UNDERSTOOD Man's purpose on the earth is to receive greater faith in God and to increase his ability to live the commandments. The Book of Moses and the Book of Abraham are plain in establishing these truths: (1) that every person is a child of God, created after his image as a spirit being before the earth was created, and (2) that man's purpose in earth life is to receive a body and then Lesson Department work out his salvation. An account of the spiritual creation of all things, including man, before they were temporally created is as follows: I, the Lord God, made the heaven and the earth; And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew. For I, the Lord God, created all things, of which I have spoken, spiritually, before they were naturally upon the face of the earth And I, the Lord God, had created all the children of men... For in heaven created I them.... (Moses 3:4-5.) It was Abraham's privilege to behold all of the spirit children of God before the earth was created as their future abode. Among these spirits he was numbered as one who was chosen to perform a mission of responsibility upon the earth. (Abra. 3:22-23.) An understanding of man's purpose in life is known from the revelations to Moses, as revealed to Joseph Smith. Probably one of the most enlightening scriptures in all sacred literature follows: For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. (Moses 1:39.) This truth means that God brings about man's resurrection (immortality) through the atonement of his Son Jesus Christ, and also makes man's exaltation (eternal life) possible in the celestial kingdom. Earth life provides the spirit with a body which will become immortal through the atonement of Christ. Without a _ resurrected body, the attainment of godhood would not be possible. (D&C 93:33-34.) To give immortality to his spirit sons and daughters is the work of 61 January 1970 God; to give them eternal life is his glory. (D&C 132:31.) Man, however, may not enjoy his full potential as a child of God unless he proves himself worthy of an exaltation with God his Father. Abraham learned that the earth was the place where man might be proved. And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever. (Abra. 3:24-26.) JOSEPH SMITH RESTORER OF TRUTH The prophet Moses foresaw that in the last days, the Lord would raise up another prophet who would be like him. This prophecy, is given in these words: And in a day when the children of men shall esteem my words as naught and take many of them from the book which thou shalt write, behold, I will raise up another like unto thee; and they shall be had again among the children of men—among as many as shall believe. (Moses 1:41.) Joseph Smith is that prophet (D&C 28:2; 107:91.) Many plain and precious truths were removed from the Bible during the period of the great apostasy. (1 Ne. 13:23-29.) The restoration of those parts of the gospel of Jesus Christ is found in the three modern books of scripture accepted by Latter-day Saints. Not the least of these is the Pearl of Great Price from which we learn of revelations to Moses and to Abraham. 62 Joseph Smith was the instrument in the Lord's hands in restoring ancient salvation-truths for modern people. He stands as a witness to the world of those truths. It was his mission to do a work for the salvation of men that would eclipse the work of earlier prophets. (2 Ne. 3:6-9; D&C 135:3.) Class Discussion Discuss: Joseph Smith was a restorer of gospel truths. IMPLEMENTATION The Pearl of Great Price, consisting of four major divisions, gives material from the ancient writings of Abraham and Moses, as well as information from the Prophet Joseph Smith. The divinity of these scriptures is attested in their consistency with other divine scriptures. They give an enlarged view of such fundamental teachings as _ the purpose of earth life, man's premortality, and the antiquity of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Since all scripture comes into existence by the power of the Holy Ghost, by that same power one may know that it is divine truth. (D&C 68:2-4; 50:21-22.) Therefore the person who desires to learn of the truth of the Pearl of Great Price may receive this knowledge by sincere prayer, as did the Prophet Joseph Smith when he sought truth in the Sacred Grove. An individual value from acceptance of this divine record is the application of its truth regarding the purpose of earth life based upon the doctrine of pre- mortality. To know that a. Preearth life as a child of God gave opportunities for progress to immortality unto eternal life provides motivation for working out one's salvation in this life. Inasmuch as this concept includes the fact that man shall live forever, it provides for decision-making in this life. Every decision ought to be made in terms of the consequences of that decision in the eternity ahead, not for the present life only. The reason for Lesson Department and the fundamental cause as to why man may eventually attain godhood resides in the origin of man's spirit—he has within him the spark of divinity. Every person who sincerely seeks for the fulness of religious truth will find by accepting the Pearl of Great Price a treasure house of revealed ancient truths which bring him to a better understanding of the questions: Where did I come from? Why am I here? VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1969-70) Message 7—True Conversion Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Meeting, September 1970 OBJECTIVE: To remember that true conversion entails humility, repentance, improvement, and righteous works to the end of one's life. "Could you say, if ye were called to die at this time, within yourselves, that ye have been sufficiently humble?... Behold, are ye stripped of pride?" (Alma 0:27-28.) "... Can ye look up to God... With a pure heart and clean hands?" (Alma 5:19.) "... Have ye spiritually been born of God?... Have ye experienced this mighty change in your hearts? Do ye exercise faith in the redemption of him who created you? Do you look forward with an eye of faith?..." (Alma 5: 14-15.) One day in a beautiful European city a young and earnest mission branch president told the saints that President David O. McKay had asked each member to be a missionary and to bring one convert into the Church each year. After the service a blind sister came forward tearfully asking, "How can I do this? I am old and cannot see. I have been in the Church many years. I have no friends that are not members. How can I bring anyone into the Church?" The branch president said, 'Sister, 63 January 1970 if you have faith and a desire to do his will God will show you the way." Some weeks later, this member went on a vacation that included a train trip. During the journey the travelers who sat opposite her helped with her luggage and cared for her needs with special compassion for her affliction. The sister thought, "What can I do to repay them?" In a few moments she leaned across and said, "I want to give you something for your kindness. I have a great gift to give you, if you will accept it." The new friends smiled. How could this woman, obviously not well-off, give them a great gift? Politely, they thanked her and said it wasn't necessary. She gently persisted. One of the women finally said, "I will be glad to accept it." The member sister replied, "This gift is not of money or jewelry, it is a gift of the Holy Spirit. I know that God lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know that living on the earth today is one of God's prophets who reveals to us the word of God. This great gift of knowledge I can give to you." The woman, interested in spite of the odd situation, asked, "How?" "Give me your address and I will send to you two young men who will explain." This was done. Three years later the elderly, blind woman made her way down the Church aisle to ask the then mission president, "President, how many people have I helped to bring into the Church by now?" Tears streamed down her face as he answered, "Your faith has helped in bringing eight souls into the Church, the woman you met and seven of her friends and relatives." True conversion requires us to repent of our lack of faith, to be humble, to share the gospel with others, to try and do the will of our Father in heaven all of our days. GEO TOMORROW'S EMBRYO Come, children hold my hand, As a family let us kneel and Pray, in earthly life, to see A glimpse of our eternity. With time to sift the chaff and weed Then carefully plant the fruitful seed. The harvest yield is what we sow— Tomorrows, now in embryo. —Margaret B. Shomaker ne ee i ee i ee ce ee ree cee es ee Se ere eee ne «: 2 — - HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education eh pa tena EEE Woman's Role in Family Preparedness Discussion 7—''Her Children Arise Up, and Call Her Blessed; Her Husband Also, and He Praiseth Her.'' (Proverbs 31:28) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1970 OBJECTIVE: To point out the mother's role in adequately preparing herself and her children through education and training. INTRODUCTION Life is a continual process of training and education—of the body, of the mind, and of the spirit. If we are not engaged in the building up of our bodies and minds, we are in the process of tearing them down. This is the inevitable law of construction and destruction, and one process or the other is taking place in our lives constantly. The one requires direction and discipline, while the other follows a line of least resistance and so, unfortunately, can take hold of our natures, if we are so inclined. If we are not led in the right direc- 'tion almost from the time of our birth, we are in danger. How great, then, is the responsibility which falls upon us, the mothers, to whom is given the stewardship of the precious lives of our children. Ours is the responsibility as well as_ the privilege of guiding and directing their lives as well as our own. Fulfilling this role is as much a part of family preparedness as any other; in fact, it actually supersedes all others, for education and training are basic and fundamental. TRAINING IN SECULAR EDUCATION Even though both Church and government are strongly in support of education, it is sometimes difficult to keep children interested and challenged. We mothers can do much to make them feel the importance of school and to prevent them from dropping out before they are prepared to meet the problems which will inevitably confront them. Following are some of the suggestions which might be helpful to us as mothers: In addition to their regular formal school education we should see that they have opportunities for cultural and social studies. All children should be encouraged to read good books in their moments of leisure rather than to spend 65 January 1970 these valuable hours in continuous watching of television. They should be exposed to fine music and given opportunity if possible to learn to play some instrument such as the piano, violin, or others; or to cultivate their voices and other talents so as to give beauty and service to others. They should be taught the cultural values of courtesy, respect for law and order, and obedience to authority in the home, the school, and the community. They should be taught to be morally clean, physically fit, and mentally alert. The training in each of these areas comes under our jurisdiction as mothers whether we recognize the fact or not. TRAINING IN SPIRITUAL EDUCATION Are we inclined, as_ busy mothers, to leave the spiritual training of our children to the Church? True it is,-that without the Church we would find it difficult to guide them, for the gospel is, literally, our way of life. Without our example, however, to show them the way and set their feet on the right path, they would indeed be lost, as many children are in this mixed-up world today. Following are some of the ways we can direct our children along these paths: Early in childhood our children should be taught to pray. They should come to realize that prayer is a natural part of their living. We need to establish in them the habit of attendance at all their Church meetings—Sunday School, Primary, M. I. A., priesthood, and sacrament meetings—so that they will stay close to the Church throughout their lives. We need to teach them to be reverent and obedient and to have respect for the Church leaders. Our boys, in particular, should know all through their growing years that they are preparing to go on missions. Every girl and every boy should grow up knowing that to be married in the temple of the Lord is the only way for them. Only by our example and our loving instruction 66 7) can we make these things an integral part of the lives of our children. | HOW DO WE PREPARE OURSELVES? The Latter-day Saint woman has a responsibility to herself as well as to her children in preparing to meet the challenges which confront her. We mothers and homemakers should never feel that our education is complete or that opportunities for learning and _ self-improvement are beyond our reach. On the contrary, there are limitless ways by which we can improve our minds and develop our potential talents and capabilities. The Relief Society itself offers us a wide variety of learning experiences which can broaden our vision and develop every facet of our lives, if we take advantage of them. Everywhere around us are other channels of enrichment through which we may be stimulated to keep our minds alert and our senses aware of the fulness and completeness of life—the abundant life which we were meant to live. CONCLUSION No home is prepared for the future if the members of the family, parents as well as children, are not receiving adequate training, and education—if they are not developing their minds and spirits to their full potential. Our beloved prophet, David O. McKay has told us that "On the proper education of youth depend the permanency and purity of the home, the safety and perpetuity of our nation." (Pathways to Happiness, David O. McKay, p. 61.) SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 7: Purpose and Reward Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study, 1969-70, Lessons 1-5.) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, September 1970 OBJECTIVE: To point out that if a Latter-day Saint woman will keep the ultimate destiny of the family unit constantly in mind, she may be purposefully motivated in her daily living. INTRODUCTION This lesson continues' the theme of the importance of the role of woman but discusses it from a somewhat less theological point of view than did the preceding one. This lesson emphasizes the fact that in order to realize satisfaction and personal fulfillment, a woman must see in the role of wife and mother, both purpose and reward. This should not be difficult for the woman who understands the Latter-day Saint attitude toward the family unit, who understands, through gospel teachings, the importance of the parent-child-parent cycle in the eternal plan. This spiritual background should give meaningful motivation to the activities that are on the day-to-day agenda of motherhood. TO KEEP IN MIND Although children may be greatly desired and loved by people of all cultures and religious beliefs, they are held in a special and peculiar place dmong the Latter-day Saints. The gospel teaches that they are the fleshly tabernacled spirits whose intelligences are coeternal with God and that they did not follow the rebellion of Lucifer. Therefore, they kept their first estate and are entitled to earth conditions which will help them to keep their second estate. This fact places importance and specific requirements upon the homes that Latter-day Saint parents establish. President Clark points out a known but seldom emphasized aspect of parenthood in the following: I would like you to know that no daughter nor no son of yours has ever intruded himself into your family. You invited him in, you invited her in, they are your guests, and you owe to them all that a good hostess owes to her guests. 67 January 1970 I think we cannot hold that too firmly in mind. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 2.) Class Involvement Questions 1. How should the foregoing statements influence a mother's general attitude toward the responsibilities of motherhood? 2. How should they influence her (a) affection for her children? (b) the amount of patience she willingly will use in the training of the children? 3. What, in your opinion, does a good hostess owe to her guest? 4. How might the following good hostess qualifications be applied to the motherchild relationship in the home? A. A good hostess does not embarrass her guest. B. A good hostess establishes a general atmosphere of cheerfulness and good will through her attitude and her speech. C. A thoughtful hostess does not selfishly do all the speaking, but encourages her guest to participate in the conversation. D. The considerate hostess does not ignore the contribution of the guest. E. Ifthe guest volunteers information regarding personal problems, the considerate hostess endeavors to understand and responds with kindness and empathy. Other suggestions may be considered. PURPOSE Through the centuries women and work have been generally inseparable. In addition to the bearing of children, they were expected to do much of the work of field or farm, while the male of the species hunted or explored or engaged in war. A woman's work in many countries today involves the less arduous out-of-the-home physical exertion than in former times. In specific situations a woman's life has become one of physical ease. However, generally 68 speaking, a woman's role still requires long hours, seemingly thankless tasks, and, most certainly, it demands the same fundamental virtues of courage, insight, willingness to work, and unselfish service. Perhaps, being naturally inclined toward tenderness and compassion, these women of the past have found the needs of children and of others sufficient reason for their efforts and enjoyed a sense of personal fulfillment, even in the most difficult circumstances, as they saw their children develop in stature of body and of mind. EVEN TODAY Even today when conditions are considerably better for many women, when opportunities for self-improvement and_ personal enjoyment are numerous, the basic personal needs remain. In order to be happy in her role, a woman should see purpose in her efforts and enjoy a feeling of self-fulfillment. In _ lesson 3 of the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study, President Clark takes us step-by-step through the guiding path of motherhood, painting an overall picture of the mother and child relationship: But the full glory of motherhood is not yet reached when her child comes forth into this world of trial, nor is her opportunity for service passed when her creation breathes the breath of life. Still from the dust of the earth she must fabricate the food that keeps alive and nourishes the little one. She not only feeds, but clothes it. She cares for it by day and watches over it by night. When illness comes, she nurses it with that near divine love that fills her heart. She gently leads its faltering steps, till it walks alone. She helps to frame its first lisps and teaches it the full art of speech. As consciousness matures, she deftly sows into the plastic mind the love of God, of truth; and, as the years flow by and youth comes on, she adds the love of honor, of honesty, of sobriety, of industry, of chastity. She teaches, bit by bit, loyalty and reverence and devotion. She implants and makes part of the growing, virgin intellect an understanding of the restored gospel. She steadies the swaying will when temptation first comes. She builds into the warp and woof of her creation, selfcontrol, independence, righteousness, love of God, and a desire and will to serve him. (Jbid., lesson 3.) The foregoing paragraph enumerates desirable personal qualities which are not acquired in a day, a month, or a year. All of them, in fact, may require a lifetime of consistent effort on the part of both mother and child. As we reread the foregoing excerpt we note the following characteristics: honesty, self-control, sobriety, chastity, honor, devotion, independence, reverence, a love for truth and of God. What a challenge it is to be in a position where one may influence another individual toward developing these qualities! Here is purpose enough for any woman. No Latter-day Saint woman can read this paragraph thoughtfully without being moved by the great human potential and by the magnitude and power of a mother's influence! Discussion Questions 1. Although engaged in the most challenging and rewarding calling in the world, why do some women become discouraged, even to the point of inducing emotional illnesses? 2. Do you think they are dissatisfied with the woman-role generally or merely with particular aspects of it? Lesson Department 3. What practical help can we give the woman who says, "What I do is so - trivial—so unimportant?" 4. How may family relationships be affected if the mother is habitually unhappy with her inherent role? ASK THE WOMAN—SHE KNOWS Emma and Jean have similar economic backgrounds. Both are mothers. Their contrasting comments relative to the role of wife and mother follow: Emma: What is wrong with me? I am busy from the moment I rise in the morning until I go to bed at night— to say nothing of the nights when one or another of our six children is ill and then I'm up half the night. I never seem to catch up—just get the bathroom scrubbed and the dishes washed and it is time to do them over again. Then laundry in the basement, closets to be cleaned, and always another meal just around the corner. I believe the old saying, "A* man's work is from sun to sun, but a woman's work is never done." Sometimes I wish I were a man. What is so important about all this household trivia, the irritation of children's quarrels, and the endless routine of bedroom, and dishes? Ask any woman, she knows, how much work it is to keep up a house. Drab, that's what I call it. Discussion Questions 1. What advice would you give to Emma? 2. Would this attitude, in your opinion, likely be confined to the busy years when children are in the home, or is it likely a chronic attitude? 3. What does Emma need in addition to better home management? Jean also has six children. She speaks of the role of wife and mother in terms of her own mother's teaching. She says: 69 January 1970 Our mother impressed us with the idea that a cheerful disposition is about the best thing a girl can take to the altar. She said it is evidence that one is well on the road to matunity. It helps you to live agreeably with others and with yourself. If you can't enjoy yourself, what on earth are you going to do? In little consistent ways she taught her daughters to see that wifehood, and especially motherhood, are the most exciting and rewarding callings in all the world. Some of the ideas we grew up with we call "Mama's Special Ten." 1. Behonest. If you are honest in your thinking, you have a pretty good chance of developing a sound perspective of yourself and situations around you. 2. There is no substitute for a moral life. Chastity is worth the price, whatever it may be. 3. Refuse to feel sorry for yourself and you will somehow find an inner strength that will help you to endure—often to endure happily. 4. Be willing to work. When women through the centuries have seen what had to be done, they have rolled up their sleeves and have done it. 5. Work toward perfection in yourself but don't demand it in others. Cultivate the attitude of liking things and people who are a little this side of perfection. This makes life easier. 6. Prepare for economic reverses by denying yourself and your family some of the little luxuries you could afford to have. 7. Develop a sense of humor and use it, for it is the human sunshine that helps you take disappointment and it may even dull the sharp edges of adversity. 8. Housework is as drab or as interesting as the housewife. 9. If you are creative you can make beauty from materials most people would cast away. Help children to get creative satisfaction from little things—daisies in a teacup or changing the bed onto the other side of the room. 10. Above all things, remember this: The Lord wants you to be a good mother. Ask him, humbly and earnestly, to help you. He will. 70 THE PRUDENT CARE OF OBJECTIVES For Class Participation Do you believe the following statements? Discuss. 1. In the comments of Emma there is no indication that she has objectives outside the duties of housekeeping. If at one time she did have such specific goals, they likely have been shaken out the window by the duster. Her only reference to the children is that of being irritated by their quarreling. She does not indicate interest in helping them to resolve their difficulties. There is no indication that she is concerned about their moral or spiritual development. Assuming that her negative attitude is habitual, we may say that she cannot see the forest for looking at the trees. 2. Jean's mother was taking good care of her objectives. She saw purpose in the role of wife and mother, and, apparently, personal fulfillment for her came in guiding the children in the direction of those objectives. By enlarging their horizon in practical ways, she was helping them to glimpse the vision of their high destiny. She definitely was concerned with the moral and spiritual development of the children and she apparently knew what many women fail to realize: that their inherent role places them in a position to become an expert in the most important area of life—that of human relations. WHAT SHOULD BE THERE President Clark devotes the latter part of Melchizedek Priesthood lesson 3 to the right kind of home—the perfect home—the home toward which Latter-day Saint parents should direct their guiding efforts. His enumeration includes things, conditions, and attitudes which we know should be in a good home but about which we frequently need to be reminded. We quote from him: If you are going to build the right kind of a home that shall be a place in which you can train, in the ways of God, these spirits whom you have invited to come to you (they are not intruders), then there must be in that home, love. There can be no real home life where there is no love. Next, there must be prayer; a prayerless abode is not a home. There must be in that home, honor. We must be honorable among ourselves, as parents, as children, as brothers and sisters. There must be mutual respect. We must respect one another. Even love will not take the place of respect. There must be example. We, the parents, must set the example... Do not think that your children will walk the straight and narrow paths, if your lives make detours. Patience in abundance and a full measure of charity must be found there. Children must have a welcome.... Therein must be kindliness; loving trust must throw its stalwart arms about them. Faith must cover the home as a kindly light; unbelief must be given no shelter. (Ibid., lesson 2.) Lesson Department SUMMARY All individuals need to have a goal and to see purpose in what they do to achieve that goal if they are to experience satisfaction and self-fulfillment in their personal efforts. The Latter-day Saint mother who understands the ultimate destiny of the earthly family unit in the celestial family of the Father, has such a goal—a glorious goal! She should keep it always in mind in order that it shall not be obscured by the innumerable, patience-demanding activities of day-to-day living. If she does this, she will find happiness in the loving services of motherhood, for she will be purposefully motivated in her daily parental responsibilities. She will realize self-fulfillment in every step each family member makes on the mortal road to immortal glory. Oy OS LESSONS | must learn the length of another path Companioned only by a fallen leaf. Out of silence how to conjure sound And how to bend my brittleness to grief. Learn again the solace of a tear, That parting is not once, but multiplied And sure as shadows on a sunny day Forever dark and certain at my side How eyes may turn in inconsistency, That loss is a hand withdrawing from my own. The gaining and the giving of a freedom, For each must learn at length to walk alone. —Dorothy J. Roberts 71 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 6—The Power of Work and the Use of Leisure Dr. Bruce B. Clark Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5 Community Responsibility, Section Six By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "All true work is sacred; in all true work, were it but true hand-labor, there is something of divineness.'" —Thomas Carlyle 'Without leisure we must live above the surface of things; leisure brings penetration.''—Manly Hall Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, August 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show that both work and leisure can contribute to improvement when balanced wisely. ART ''La Grande Jatte'' by Georges Seurat (1859-1891) French (September 1969 Relief Society Magazine, p. 687.) Commentary on art selection by Floyd E. Breinholt, Chairman, Department of Art, Brigham Young University. When families are united in their work and play, work becomes more meaningful and leisure more enjoyable. A casual observer might say that this painting ''La Grande Jatte'' by Georges Seurat illustrates a popular leisure-time activity—strolling in the park. However, as one looks and reflects, he may find that there is much more to it than that. The reality of the subject has been subjected to stringent refining—not necessarily to improve it— but in order to yield its essence. The unessentials have been dropped away leaving only images of incisive clarity. A heat haze blurs the detail and gives a static quality. One feels as if he had captured a moment suspended in time, in which order reigns. _Georges Seurat lived at the time Impressionism was at its height. However, he believed that this system of painting was too haphazard, so he developed a systematic method of painting, which was highly intellectual, methodical, and almost scientific in approach. He carefully organized the space on his canvas by using horizontal, vertical, and diagonal lines in perfect balance. Then with careful, almost artificial, precision, he placed the confetti-like, round spots of color next to each other, until his canvas was covered in such a way that the colors, being mixed in the eye of the observer, give a sensation of shimmering vibrancy. He called his method Divisionism. Others have called it Pointillism. This painting was first shown in 1886, and it marked the painter's arrival at a maturity in the use of the method he invented. His departure from the established way of painting, and from the Impressionism of his time, opened the way tor later, so-called ''Modern'"' art. Seurat must have worked hard to accomplish what he did at such an early age. (He died at the age of 32.) And, as is the case with many highly creative people, he found his recreation in his work. He said, '"'Art is harmony—harmony comes from placing, side-by-side, contrasting elements and similar elements in tone, in color, and in line." 72 INTRODUCTORY COMMENTS As the preceding quotations and objective make clear, the main point of this lesson is that there should be a happy balance in our lives between work and leisure—perhaps a good deal more work than leisure, but also some time for the rewards that leisure can bring. That there are abundant values in a lifetime of dedication to honest, constructive work should be self-evident to all thinking people. Yet a woman would be wrong if she allowed her life to become so submerged in work and work only that all recreational, aesthetic, and spiritual things were crowded out. Again the need is for a healthy balance. In harmony with this ideal, the selections covered by this lesson are all concerned in one way or another with work and leisure. Some emphasize the values of work and some the rewards of leisure. Some suggest the balance that is needed between work and leisure and some the consequences when there is lack of balance. THOMAS CARLYLE ON WORK Out of the Scotch peasantry came Thomas Carlyle (1795-1881 ) warning the world, like a Biblical prophet, against the evils of materialism, idleness, and _ all things superficial. Although his writing is rough and even clumsy he was a courageous, independent thinker concerned above all with human values; and, however, clumsy his style, he forces us by vividness of phrase and power of idea to listen to his thoughts. His influence has been felt world-wide, with such men as Lesson Department Emerson and Thoreau acknowledging their indebtedness to him. As a young man Carlyle went through a profound spiritual crisis but found his spiritual footing and thereafter in volume after volume of essays was a vigorous prophet, preaching the gospel of work, the worship of heroes, the sacredness of life, the glory of God, and the evil of too much worldliness. He is often opinionated and chaotic in both ideas and style but he is always forceful—this boisterous, explosive, sincere man of faith. Following are some brief excerpts from the writings of Carlyle, who made the strongest statements we know in literature on the values and nobility of work. The excerpts are from two of his most famous volumes, Past and Present and Sartor Resartus. Readers will find them a bit clumsy and hard to read but with great power and even eloquence in their awkwardness: All work, even cotton-spinning, is noble; work is alone noble: be that here said and asserted once more. And in like manner, too, all dignity is painful; a life of ease is not for any man, nor for any god. The only happiness a brave man ever troubled himself with asking much about was, happiness enough to get his work done. Not "I can't eat!" but "I can't work!" that was the burden of all wise complaining among men. It is, after all, the one unhappiness of a man. That he cannot work; that he cannot get his destiny as a man fulfilled. Behold, the day is passing swiftly over, our life is passing swiftly over; and the night cometh, wherein no man can work. The night once come, our happiness, our unhappiness,—it is all abolished; vanished, clean gone; a thing that has been. But our work, —behold that is not abolished, that has not vanished: our work, behold, it remains, or the want of it remains;— 73 January 1970 for endless Times and Eternities, remains; and that is now the sole question with us for evermore. For there is a perennial nobleness, and even sacredness, in Work. Were he never so benighted, forgetful of his high calling, there is always hope in a man that actually and earnestly works; in Idleness alone is there perpetual. Despair The latest Gospel in this world is, Know thy work and do it... Know what thou canst work at; and work at it, like a Hercules! That will be thy better plan Blessed is he who has found his work; let him ask no other blessedness. He has a work, a life-purpose; he has found it, and will follow it! Labour is Life: from the inmost heart of the Worker rises his god-given Force, the sacred Celestial Life-essence breathed into him by Almighty God; from his inmost heart awakens him to all nobleness,—to all knowledge, "self-knowledge" and much else, so soon as Work fitly beings.... Work is of a religious nature:—work is of a brave nature; which it is the aim of all religion to be.... Older than all preached Gospels was this unpreached, inarticulate, but ineradicable, foreverenduring Gospel: Work, and therein have wellbeing.... The thistle that grows in thy path, dig it out, that a blade of useful grass, a drop of nourishing milk, may grow there instead. All true Work is sacred; in all true Work, were it but true hand-labour, there is something of divineness.... Who art thou that complainest of thy life of toil? Complain not. Look up, my wearied brother; see thy fellow Workmen there, in God's Eternity; surviving there, they alone surviving: sacred Band of the Im-_ mortals, celestial Bodyguard of the Empire of Mankind. And who art thou that braggest of thy life of Idleness; complacently showest thy bright gilt equipages; sumptuous cushions; appliances for folding of the hands to mere sleep?... One monster there is in the world: the idle man. As to the Wages of Work there might innumerable things be said.... One thing only I will say here.... The "wages" of every noble Work do yet lie in Heaven or else Nowhere. Not in Bank-of-England bills. 74 Two men I honor, and no third. First, the toilworn Craftsman that with earthmade Implement laboriously conquers the earth, and makes her man's. Venerable to me is the hard Hand; crooked, course Venerable too is the rugged face, all weather-tanned, besoiled, with its rude intelligence, for it is the face of a Man living manlike A second man I honor, and still more highly: Him who is seen toiling for the spiritually indispensable; not daily bread, but the bread of Life.... If the poor and humble toil that we have Food, must not the high and glorious toil for him in return, that he have Light, have Guidance, Freedom, Immortality?—These two, in all their degrees, I honor—all else is chaff and dust, which let the wind blow whither it listeth. Unspeakably touching is it, however, when I find both dignities united; and he that must toil outwardly for the lowest of man's wants, is also toiling inwardly for the highest. Such a one will take thee back to Nazareth itself; thou wilt see the splendor of Heaven spring forth from the humblest depths of Earth, like a light shining in great darkness. LIN YUTANG AND "THE IMPORTANCE OF LOAFING" Most issues have two sides. Carlyle has made a powerful case for the values of work. Something also, however, can be said for the values of leisure. Some excerpts from Lin Yutang's essay "The Importance of Loafing" follow to develop this second point of view. Lin Yutang (1895- ) can be called genuinely a citizen of the world. Born in China, he received his early education in Shanghai, then studied at Harvard and several German universities. Returning to China, he became a professor of English at Peking but later fled mainland China when the Communists took over. Since then he has become recognized throughout the world not only as a fluent spokesman for free China but also as a prominent writer in English, especially in his essays. Among hisimportant publications are My Country and My People, The Importance of Living, A Leaf in the Storm, and Between Tears and Laughter. While studying this lesson on work and leisure, readers will undoubtedly want to contrast the views of Carlyle and Lin Yutang. Surely no one has talked more glowingly of the nobility of work than Carlyle, who even went so far as to call the idle man a monster. At the other extreme, Lin Yutang eloquently defends "the importance of loafing." Before we conclude that the two are completely contradictory, however, we should read carefully what each says. For Carlyle, "all true work is religion" and "all true work is sacred"—but note the emphasis on the word true in each statement. For Lin Yutang, "the man who is wisely idle is the most cultured man''—but again note the emphasis on the word wisely. These qualifying words make a great difference in what each man is saying and indicate that both are aware of the preciousness of time, whether spent in work or in leisure. Culture, as I understand it, is essentially a product of leisure. The art of culture is therefore essentially the art of loafing. From the Chinese point of view, the man who is wisely idle is the most cultured man. For there seems to be a philosophic contradiction between being busy and being wise. Those who are wise won't be busy, and those who are too busy can't be wise. The wisest man is therefore he who loafs most gracefully. Here I shall try to explain, not the technique and varieties of loafing as practised in China, but rather the philosophy which nourishes this divine desire for loafing in China and gives rise to that carefree, idle, happyLesson Department go-lucky—and often poetic—temperament in the Chinese scholars, and to a lesser extent, in the Chinese people in general. How did that Chinese temperament—that distrust of achievement and success and that intense love of living as such—arise? In the first place, the Chinese theory of leisure, as expressed by a comparatively unknown author of the eighteenth century, Shu Paihsiang, who happily achieved oblivion, is as follows: time is useful because it is not being used. "Leisure in time is like unoccupied floor space in a room." Every working girl who rents a small room where every inch of space is fully utilized feels highly uncomfortable because she has no room to move about, and the moment she gets a raise in salary, she moves into a bigger room where there is a little more unused floor space, besides those strictly useful spaces occupied by her single bed, her dressing table and her two-burner gas range. It is that unoccupied space which makes a room habitable, as it is our leisure hours which make life endurable. I understand there is a rich woman living on Park Avenue, who bought up a neighboring lot to prevent anybody from erecting a skyscraper next to her house. She is paying a big sum of money in order to have space fully and perfectly made useless, and it seems to me she never spent her money more wisely. Figuratively speaking, we, too, are so cramped in our life that we cannot enjoy a free perspective of the beauties of our spiritual life. We lack spiritual frontage.... To the Chinese, therefore, with the fine philosophy that 'Nothing matters to a man who says nothing matters,"' Americans offer a strange contrast. Is life really worth all the bother, to the extent of making our soul a slave to the body? The high spirituality of the philosophy of loafing forbids it. The three great American vices seem to be efficiency, punctuality and the desire for achievement and success. They are the things that make the Americans so unhappy and so nervous. They steal from them their inalienable right of loafing and cheat them of many a good, idle and beautiful afternoon. One must start out with a belief that there are no catastrophes in this world, and that be- 75 January 1970 sides the noble art of getting things done, there is a nobler art of leaving things undone. On the whole, if one answers letters promptly, the result is about as good or as bad as if he had never answered them at all. After all, nothing happens, and while one may have missed a few good appointments, one may have also avoided a few unpleasant ones. Our quarrel is not that efficiency gets things done and very well done, too. I always rely on American water-taps, rather than on those made in China, because American water-taps do not leak. That is a consolation. Against the old contention, however, that we must all be useful, be efficient, become officials and have power, the old reply is that there are always enough fools left in the world who are willing to be useful, be busy and enjoy power, and so somehow the business of life can and will be carried on. The only point is who are the wise, the loafers or the hustlers? Our quarrel with efficiency is not that it gets things done, but that it is a thief of time when it leaves us no leisure to enjoy ourselves and that it frays our nerves in trying to get things done perfectly. American engineers in building bridges calculate so finely and exactly as to make the two ends come together within one-tenth of an inch. But when two Chinese begin to dig a tunnel from both sides of a mountain, both come out on the other side. The Chinese's firm conviction is that it doesn't matter so long as a tunnel is dug through, and if we have two instead of one, why, we have a double track to boot — The tempo of modern industrial life forbids this kind of glorious and magnificent idling. But worse than that, it imposes upon us a different conception of time as measured by the clock, and eventually turns the human being into a clock himself.... This is what makes life so hard and hectic.... And Americans have now come to such a sad state that they are booked up not only for the following day, or the following week, but even for the following month. An appointment three weeks ahead of time is a thing unknown in China. And when a Chinese receives an invitation card, happily he never has to say whether he is going to be present or not. He can put down on the invitation list "coming" if he accepts, or "thanks" if he declines, 76 MOOD Sullen sky, cold sand, restless water. Gulls crying, wind blowing, waves roaring. All alone and sad, thinking thoughts of you. —Theodora Graham PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours Southern Temple Tour March 15-21st SS Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Learn a Career with a future Rose Elder Ada Mortensen We offer the finest instruction, latest techniques, finest new and modern equipment. Professional instructors will insure your success in a rewarding profession. Continuous Enrollment VA and Foreign Student Approved Indian Student Approved ant? & te Send now for ae, @ our brochure 3: -: ¢ Lh a) 22 N. Country Club Drive Mesa, Arizona 85201 FULL CYCLE The vines of experience and knowledge burgeon from the seeds of truth, intertwine through their summering, gaining and giving strength each to each, to autumn, their harvest of wisdom. Time winters inevitably but souls springtime into promised joy, fulfilling the covenant. —Kathryn Kay Lesson Department but in the majority of cases the invited party merely writes the word "know," which is a statement of fact that he knows of the invitation and not a statement of intention. But above all, the American's inability to loaf comes directly from his desire for doing things and in his placing action above being. We should demand that there be character in our lives as we demand there be character in all great art worthy of the name. Unfortunately, character is not a thing which can be manufactured overnight. Like the quality of mellowness in wine, it is acquired by standing still and by the passage of time. The desire of American old men and women for action, trying in this way to gain their self-respect and the respect of the younger generation, is what makes them look so ridiculous to an Oriental. The loss of the capacity for loafing is bad enough in men of middle age, but the same loss in old age is a crime committed against human nature. Character is always associated with something old and takes time to grow, like the beautiful facial lines of a man in middle age, lines that are the steady imprint of the man's evolving character. It is somewhat difficult to see character in a type of life where every man is throwing away his last year's car and trading it in for the new model. As are the things we make, so are we ourselves.... We love old cathedrals, old furniture, old silver, old dictionaries and old prints, but we have entirely forgotten about the beauty of old men. I think an appreciation of that kind of beauty is essential to our life, for beauty, it seems to me, is what is old and mellow and well-smoked. Sometimes a prophetic vision comes to me, a beautiful vision of a millennium when Manhattan will go slow, and when the American "go-getter" will become an Oriental loafer.... Policemen will exchange a word of greeting with the slowdevil at the crossings, and the drivers themselves will stop and accost each other and inquire after their grandmothers' health in the midst of traffic.... A glass or orange juice will last half an hour... Punctuated by delightful, chatty remarks, instead of swallowing it at a gulp.... Fire engines will proceed at a snail's pace, their staff stopping on the way to gaze at and dispute over the num- 77 January 1970 ber of passing wild geese in the sky. It is too bad that there is no hope of this kind of millennium on Manhattan ever being realized. There might be so many more perfect idle afternoons. Bd "The Importance of Loafing undoubtedly goes too far in advocating leisurely living. Everyone knows that efficiency, accuracy, and punctuality are generally virtues, not vices. Work needs to be pushed along with energy, projects, and programs need to be completed as expertly as possible, deadlines need to be kept, letters (at least some of them) need to be answered, and fire engines need to hurry to put out fires. But does Lin Yutang have a point? In the rush of twentieth-century living, are we pushed and pressured so constantly from so many sides that we don't have enough time to think, to create, to appreciate the beautiful, or even to experience the spiritual? Do the things we have to do too often get in the way of the things we want to do or, even worse, of the things we ought to do? Do we need to make room in our lives for at least some periods of leisure when the mind can think, the heart can appreciate, and the spirit can commune and grow? Plants are smothered when crowded too tightly in space. Are personalities smothered when crowded too tightly in time? Is it also true that in our modern world we are forgetting how to grow old gracefully and do not have proper respect and appreciation for the beauty of old age? If too much leisure in life is wrong, is it also wrong to have no leisure, or too little? Long ago the Greeks advocated moderation 78 CHILD, MY CHILD Your house is tomorrow with rooms to fill, My house is today, come if you will And visit my light rooms filled with love, In all corners crowded with tokens of A younger yesterday remembered well. You may find a treasure or | shall tell, Child, my child, a rare secret and true, This day was begun a house for you. —Leora Larsen wR wT MUSIC COMPANY '*Singing Mothers'"' '"'Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 ~ Instruments and balance in all things. Is that still the best answer? Question Most readers will undoubtedly enjoy Lin Yutang's essay whether they agree with it or not because it is written so delightsomely. In your opinion is he fully serious in the essay, partly serious, fully right, or partly right? OTHER SELECTIONS IN THIS LESSON In addition to the essays of Thomas Carlyle and Lin Yutang, the text also contains the following selections with discussions: (1) "After Apple-Picking," an excellent modern poem on the pleasure and pain of work by Robert Frost, (2) "Life of Ma Parker," a moving short story by Katherine Mansfield showing a woman whose life is filled with too much work and too little of all the other things that life also needs for nourishment, (3) "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty," a delightful story by James Thurber about a timid man who tries toescape reality through constant daydreaming, and (4) some excerpts from "The Roots of Honor,' a stimulating essay by John Ruskin outlining the responsibilities to society of merchants and other public leaders. Each class leader should choose those selections that she finds most interesting and most appropriate for her group. Lesson Department New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Sait Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _-.55 Zone5.~._-_.-75 Zone3 ___-.-60 Zone6 _._--.85 Zone4 _~___-65 Zone7.~..-_..95 Zone8.__. -1.05 —_— a. DESERET PPews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 TO ALL MUSIC PEOPLE: Have you seen our FREE catalog and latest (pink) supplement listing over 150 SPECIAL OCCASION SONGS by thirty-five L. D. S. Authors and composers —songs written to fill their special needs, and now available to help you fill yours? Selections include choruses, trios, solos, etc. With a variety of themes—spiritual, patriotic, pioneer, home and family, missionary, and others. Many have expressed delight with this unique service. For enough catalogs for your stake ward leaders, and for interested friends, write: Shecial Pim 'Songs 1365 East 4800 South, (Murray-Holladay Rd.) Salt Lake City, Utah 84117 or call Vilate McAllister, 277-7331 ''We Choose to Share, Not Shelve."' 79 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by "anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 102 100 96 95 94 93 92 Mrs. Margaret Clarkston Morgan Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Louisa Caroline Tempest Anderson Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Ismilda Thueson England Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Lee Wilson Myers American Fork, Utah Mrs. Zerviah Greene Smith Logan, Utah Mrs. Ada Sylvester Snyder Richfield, Utah Mrs. Ora Crutchfield Kennewick, Washington Mrs. Anna Marie Anderson Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Huffaker Larsen Los Angeles, California Mrs. Annie Eliza Summers Moore Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Ella Wheeler Reynolds Springville, Utah Mrs. Theresia Klein Redwood City, California Mrs. Annie Cecilia Christensen Larsen Marsing, Idaho Mrs. Hannah Kemp Peterson Salt Lake City, Utah Mirs. Mary Ann Johnston Franks Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Sarah (Sadie) Bullock Holt Raymond, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Hattie M. Redding Owens San Diego, California Mrs. Irene Phippen Voyce Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Laura Jane Cameron Worthen Panguitch, Utah 90 91 Mrs. Rose Ellen Webster Berry Grand Junction, California Mrs. Mattie Smith Colson Portland, Oregon Mrs. Effie Matilda Longshore Dougal San Diego, California Mrs. Hattie Beck Johnson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elisabeth Harries Liddle Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Camma Atkinson Lutz Salt Lake City, Utah | Mrs. Christina Wangsgaard McKay Ogden, Utah Mrs. Cornelia Peters Officer Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Frances Pearl Hight Toolson New Meadows, Idaho Mrs. Amy Eunice Fernelius R. Eldredge Carey, Idaho Mrs. Ruth Ada Coombs Coleman Mesa, Arizona " Mirs. Mary Josephine A. Christensen Centerfield, Utah Mrs. Sarah Elvira Andersen Cook Bonners Ferry, Idaho Mrs. Pearl! Bullen Harrison Logan, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Green Grantsville, Utah Mrs. Annie E. Haag King Denver, Colorado Alma Maria Layman Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eliza Farnsworth Lee Rigby, Idaho Mrs. Anna Homegar Richenbach Bedford, Wyoming Mrs. Eva Lee Russell Ogden, Utah Mrs. Pearl Kennedy Wall Aurora, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Hoge Welker Fortuna, California Mrs. Henrietta Zufelt Wilcox American Fork, Utah From Deseret Book Barely a month old, this new book tells the true story of the singing King family. Now, for the first time, a book that tells how it all began. This is a story of the King Sisters quartette and their determination to make good during the era of the "big bands." It tells of the joys and sorrows that go with achieving stardom. This is also the story of how they managed to maintain a home life in spite of their traveling. Order your copy of this first edition NOW! DESERET BOOK COMPANY "pook 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me _ oe copies of THE SINGING KINGS | Total Boston.| enclose check [] money order [] Charge established account [J Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% | tax when ordering from Orange. Jan. R. S. Mag. 70 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah | 
