
SEPTEMBER, Vol. 57, Number 9
The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: ACROSS THESE HILLS | have no loom to weave this tapestry © When frost-fires spin their crimson in the clefts And lay their tawny shaw! Across the slopes. Why must. My forgetting, fickle mind Yield up the image, pale with time the hue, Or lose beyond recall the ragged way The aspens trail their gold along the creeks? For soon, too soon, as other seasons know, The year will drop its blanket on the land And | will turn heart-whole to peace of snow. The weaver flings his brilliant skeins each year, But | may never come this way again. All things pass, as this, and even now A bright leaf severs from the tree and floats To earth. The setting sun intensifies Magenta tones to purple, deepens blue, But douses light as dullness quenches pain, And. | must hug them into memory, Before the dark decree that all must part, And love these autumn hills into my heart. —Alice Morrey Bailey Early Snow Transparency by Claire W. Noall Z Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press _ Aspens on Mount Timpanogos Photograph by Hal Rumel Dick Scopes Mary Scopes | just wanted to tell you how much we enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. Our whole family reads it. As a home economics teacher, | find many of the articles helpful. We used the sourdough recipes (February 1970, by Edythe K. Watson) in a menu planning contest we entered. Our menus were State winners in Wyoming. Gilda Sims Evanstoh, Wyoming | was so pleased when | opened the July Magazine and found the story ''Ronna's Doll,"' by Norma Wrathall, my niece. | have just written to her about it. This story brings back memories of the days when the young girls of our families played house in the large bedrooms upstairs in the old home. Those were happy carefree days. Every issue of the Magazine is wonderful. | love the poems, especially the one ''You Never Knew | Kept Ail These,'' by Alda Larson Brown. I'm quite a ''keeper of things,'' too. | was attracted, also, by the illustrations for the poem. Mary Scopes is a delightful illustrator. ''Picking Potawatomies,'' by Mabel Luke Anderson was interesting. How we used to enjoy the tangy taste of those plums! ''The Secret of Blueberry Hill,'' by Rosa Lee Lloyd seems to be a good one again, as all of hers are. Lucy W. Jones Salt Lake City, Utah As a child | spent many happy hours in the attic of my mother's home, searching out the poems and stories in her cherished and saved Relief Society Magazines, skipping the lesson material and preachments, but imbibing a testimony of the gospel, nevertheless, by the same lessons and preachments in story and poetry form. The Magazine has helped me to be proud of being a woman, a mother, and a homemaker, and prouder still of being a Latter-day Saint woman. Alice Morrey Bailey Salt Lake City, Utah We really appreciate it that the sisters in the United States have made it possible for us to receive the Relief Society Magazine every month. From this magazine we have been able to gain new strength for our work and new ideas for the Hamburg Stake. Through it we also have gained connection to all the sisters in the Church. To all the sisters who have donated the gift subscriptions, we wish to express our special thanks. Ilse Linds, Hamburg Stake Relief Society President For the first time since | have been in college this semester, | have found time to read my wonderful Relief Society Magazine from cover to cover. Of course, | always like to thumb through the Magazines and look at the pictures, poems, and short stories and the letters in the From Near and Far department, though | might not have time to read any of the articles at that moment. Because of my schedule in college, | cannot attend Relief Society meetings as | should like to do, but the Magazine keeps my spirits intact. | wish to thank all the people who help to put the Magazine together, and for the dedicated love and work that you do in order to bring us this lovely work of art. Lillie Hendricks Big Spring, Texas | have read with interest the special feature ''Japan—Lovely Land of Contrasts (June 1970, by Caroline Eyring Miner). | am a convert to the Church and enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much. It is a constant source of strength and information. | enjoy the lessons and articles on gardening, but hope sometime in the future the Magazine will publish a few articles on gardening in the Las Vegas area. Since we have six stakes and a growing membership in Relief Society, | am sure the ladies would like to know that one can really grow vegetables in this sterile soil. Jean R. Jones Las Vegas, Nevada 642. 

The Relief SOCICTY Magazine Volume 57 September 1970 Number 9 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 644 Temple Marriage: The Lord's Way ElRay L. Christiansen 667 Seeing Switzerland Frances C. Yost Fiction 652 And a Ray of Light May Gleam Lucy Parr 660 The Secret of Blueberry Hill—Chapter 3 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 642 From Near and Far 649 Helen W. Jeppson and Arlene S. Kirton Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society 650 Notice to Magazine Subscribers 657 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 658 Editorial—Welcome the Call Marianne C. Sharp 694 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 720 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 665 Cookies for All Occasions, Mary J. Wilson 676 Brooches Edythe K. Watson 677 A 'Different' Birthday 678 About Fish Linnie F. Robinson 680 An Heirloom Quilt JoAnne Baker 681 A 'Bring and Brag" Table Miriam M. Richins 682 Autumn Portrait of a Spring and Summer Garden Darlene C. Dedekind 684 Reflections Leila Grace Bassford Lesson Department 689 ''La Bonne Mere" by Jean Honoré Fragonard 690 "Little White Girl' by James Abott McNeill Whistler 702 Spiritual Living—The Premortality of Mankind 708 Visiting Teacher Message—Peacemakers 710 Homemaking—Refined Conduct, Self-Discipline, Self-Control 712 Social Relations—Today's Child in Today's World 718 Cultural Refinement—no lesson planned for December Poetry 641 Across These Hills, Alice Morrey Bailey; 648 Nativity Bouquet, Hazel Loomis; 651 Return to September, Pansye H. Powell; 709 Lament, Oneita B. Sumsion; 711 My Pen, Margaret B. Jorgensen, 718 Your Sun Is Yonder, Alda Larson Brown. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ©1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription price 25¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

 643 @ Toa Latter-day Saint, nothing is sO important as to rear his family in such a way as to make possible the associations of its members throughout eternity. God designed marriage in the temples to unite families eternally. It is the institution which makes family life possible. You and I lived in the preexistent world before our mortal lives began. There, we understood that to gain fullness of joy and success it would be necessary for us to be born of earthly parents who would serve as our tutors, advisors, and counselors. Next to the blessings of life is the privilege given of our Father in heaven to direct that life—to accept or reject, to obey or disobey, to choose right or to choose wrong. The right to choose is a choice blessing and at the same time an almost frightening responsibility for in making our choices we 644 Elder ElRay L. Christiansen Assistant to the Council of the Twelve alone determine our destiny in the eternity. The words of a hymn which were written by William C. Gregg set this principle forth in a delightful way. Know this, that every soul is free To choose his life and what he'll be, For this eternal truth is given That God will force no man to heav'n. He'll call, persuade, direct aright, And bless with wisdom, love, and light, In nameless ways be good and kind, But never force the human mind. It is not the purpose or desire of the Lord to have families dissolved: automatically at the end of this life. Rather, it is his purpose and plan to perpetuate family relationships forever! I can think of no concept of truth that is so glorious and so comforting to mortal beings as is this! But he is a God of law and order. Eternal associations of families are realized only upon conformance to the laws, ordinances, and conditions upon which they are promised. For all who will have a _ blessing at my hands shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted from before the foundation of the world. (D&C 132:5.) BLESSINGS AND DESIRABILITY OF A TEMPLE MARRIAGE The blessings of a temple marriage are numerous. Since such a marriage spans our life on earth as well as eternity, some of these blessings are realized during this life and some in the period of existence yet to come. Let us enumerate a few of the reasons which make a temple marriage desirable. First: It is the Lord's way and certainly his way is the best way. The first marriage was that of Adam and Eve. It took place while they lived in the Garden of Eden when there was neither mortality nor death. This marriage was performed by the eternal power of God upon which death can place no limitations. Even though Adam and Eve disobeyed the Lord and because of their transgression they became mortal, their marriage survived death. It was an eternal union. Any marriage performed in the temple by an authorized person, and when sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, which is the Holy Ghost, shall also be "in full force" after death. This is made sure only when the covenants and obligations have been kept through life by the recipients upon whom the blessings and powers were sealed. Temple Marriage:' The Lord's Way This ordinance is the new and everlasting covenant of marriage. This same sealing power was restored in this dispensation by Elijah the Prophet to Joseph Smith (D&C 2:1-3, also D&C 110:13-16), and it has subsequently been given to each successive prophet and president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who may personally delegate it to others. Second: Just as baptism is necessary to bring us into the presence of God, so may the sealing of husbands and wives bring them and their faithful children into the family kingdom, which is the celestial realm of glory, and make their exaltation possible. What would heaven be without the association with those we love? Death need not separate husbands and wives, and death will not separate them if they are sealed according to the ordinance of God and if they are faithful thereafter. There is something assuring and exultant in the knowledge and the assurance that though death may part them, yet in the first resurrection they shall come forth and enjoy the blessings and joy of family relationships. Their family will continue forever; there will be no more partings because there will be no more death. Of course, these blessings are realized only when we live in accordance with the laws of the Lord, or as he says: "and if ye abide in my covenant." What disappointment, what regret, what remorse, will be felt by those of us who should, because of neglect or indifference, fail or refuse to enter into the marrlage covenant according to the 645 September 1970 way God has designed it! To refuse to enter into such a covenant would end with this life the associations of husbands and wives and parents and their children. But those who receive these powers in worthiness and abide by them shall arise when the Lord shall call them and they will be Christ's at his coming. And in the words of Charles W. Penrose: He will call their sleeping dust to life and they will still be joined together. Not only in spirit and in body be reunited, but as happy parents they will come together again, standing at the head of their posterity as Adam and Eve will stand at the head of the multitude who are quickened and raised from the dead. The eternity of the marriage covenant is a glorious revelation. Third: I have on occasions referred to the temple as "The University of the Lord," because therein we are taught the higher purposes and principles of life. We are there taught the reality of God and our personal relationship to him. In those holy places we are taught that we came to earth by design of our Heavenly Father and that we have a divine destiny, which may be attained by charting our course in life according to the restored gospel and by honoring the laws of the Lord. We are there given a "prescription" for happiness and success. Fourth: After a couple has been sealed in the temple as husband and wife, the children born to them are "born in the covenant," and throughout all eternity are the children of their parents. If the children accept the laws and ordinances of the gospel and live them, they will become legal heirs to the kingdom and to all its blessings and promises. The same assuranceis given tochildren 646 sealed to parents who have joined the Church and are sealed as husband and wife after their children are born. In such cases a binding ordinance sealing the children to their parents is administered. Sealed couples who adopt children by civil processes may lave the same privilege. It is inconsistent to consider rearing children with all the care and attention that is required, and then have no claim on them when death comes. This truth gives solace and comfort to the bereaved. Fifth: In the temple we may draw near to the Lord, for after all, it is his house. His spirit is there and gives to the humble and pure, strength through meditation, prayer, and revealed truth. Sixth: The very fact that those who expect to enter the temple must be qualified as to their worthiness is in itself a blessing. The realization that we go to the temple because we are worthy, not necessarily to get worthy, motivates young people to seek the decent things of life. President David O. McKay once said:... The best and noblest lives are those which are set toward high ideals. Surely no higher ideal regarding marriage can be cherished by young people, than to look upon it as a divine institution. In the minds of the young, such a standard is a protection to them in courtship, an ever-present influence inducing them to refrain from doing anything which may prevent their going to the temple to have their love consummated in an enduring and eternal union. (Gospel Ideals, p. 462.) Latter-day Saints who are married in the temple have found added strength to resist evil. This comes from their participation in the higher ordinances and in actually committing themselves to live more Christ-like lives. Such individuals will find that such affirmation made together provides a bond for their marriage which life's worst vicissitudes will only strengthen. There is no more solemn commitment in time or in eternity than marriage vows made in the temple. No force nor power lifts us so high as the keeping of those commitments. THE ROLE OF PARENTS Preparation for life, proper living, and happiness begin in the home! Preparation and plans for marrying the proper person in the proper place should be part of the home training. It is unwise, to say the least, for parents to leave to chance or to others the obligations and privilege of instructing and training their sons and daughters in matters which have such far-reaching effects upon their future as does marriage. If every girl and boy were taught fully to understand the lofty concept of eternal marriage they would want no other. It is not solemnized with the worldly glamor and pageantry, or for show or social prestige, and is not witnessed by a church filled with spectators. It is performed in the presence of parents, oftentimes grandparents, and a few close friends in a lovely sealing room, where that transcendentally beautiful ordinance, in which is given the blessing of association for time and eternity, along with other marvelous powers, outweighs all other provisions offered elsewhere. Temple Marriage: The Lord's Way A young woman or a young man will never marry out of the temple if she or he is sufficiently taught and is fully determined not to do so. How can parents teach and influence their sons and daughters so they will look forward toward marriage and then live to be worthy of it? 1. Start while they are young. Let your warm influence be felt in their formative years. In your own way explain the desirability of a marriage in the temple. 2. Provide for them reading material including talks and articles on the subject by General Authonities. 3. You should teach your children the advisability of associating with those of their own faith and _ religion. Companions in marriage are usually selected from the group with whom they associate. 4. Set a proper example! Create a home that has as its foundation kindness, courtesy, honesty, truthfulness, forgiveness, and apologies. Let your children see in you the sacredness of marriage. As parents, avoid backbiting, criticizing, and disputations. Someone said, "Live with a wolf long enough and you'll learn to howl." So it is with children. They acquire the traits of their parents. 5. Have the wisdom to use the divinely given program, the family home evenings, to help you reach and teach your sons and daughters. 6. Gradually help your children to realize that they lived before they were born—that they are here to determine where and under what conditions they will live after this life ends. Usually this causes them to think and that is good. 7. Plan and do worthwhile things as a family. 8. At the proper time and in the proper way help them to maintain the highest regard for virtue and chastity. The Lord has not withdrawn that divine commandment, "Thou shalt not commit adultery."" Make sure that they realize that happiness can come only through obedience. 647 September 1970 9. Let your children hear you pray for them! Plead with the Lord for their welfare—spiritual and otherwise. President Harold B. Lee once told this heart-warming story: I am thinking of that Mother blessed with a family of girls who kneeled down each night and prayed to God that somewhere there would be a mother rearing some sons worthy to become the husbands of her daughters, and then, the daughters finally married. Intalking with the mothers of the sons, she found that those mothers had been praying ever since their boys were born that somewhere God would be preparing some girls worthy to become the wives of their sons. I say to you, brethren and sisters, such lofty concepts of home, family, and the responsibilities of home and family, are certain guarantees to a happy and successful home. (Conference Report, October 1948, pp. 53-54.) Our sons and daughters may forget much that we tell them, but surely the daily pleading with the Lord of a father or a mother for the protection and guidance of their children will be an everlasting influence upon them. 10. Finally, let them realize the importance of temple ordinances by seeing their parents go frequently to the temple to bring similar blessings to those who have died. Now, the thought may enter the minds of some as to the status of those unmarried women who would have entered into the marriage covenant, but have not had opportunity to do so, under the proper conditions. I take the liberty to quote here a beautiful statement made by President Joseph Fielding Smith in regard to this. Said he: You good sisters who are single and alone, do not fear, do not feel that blessings are going to be withheld from you. You are not under any obligation or necessity of accepting some proposal that comes to you which is distasteful for fear you will come under condemnation. If in your hearts you feel that the gospel is true, and would under proper conditions receive these ordinances and _ sealing blessings in the temple of the Lord, and that is your faith and your hope and your desire, and that does not come to you now, the Lord will make it up, and you _ shall be _ blessed—for no blessing shall be withheld. The Lord will judge you according to the desires of your hearts when blessings are withheld, and he is not going to condemn you for that which you cannot help. (Elijah the Prophet and His Mission, p. 51.) The eternity of the marriage covenant is indeed a _ glorious revelation! A NATIVITY BOUQUET Not orchids, you sent me juniper That crawls with vigor on my land. Not roses, you sent me sage With plumes like running dappled mares. Wild grape, you sent, not camellias, All set in green and nestled In a prim bouquet. | know the hour—the tilt of sun The blue washed air. | know the raptured gathering When I, too, gathered there. 648 —Hazel Loomis Helen Wright Jeppson, daughter of Lucy White and Earl L. Wright, and wife of Don L. Jeppson of Pleasant Green First Ward, Oquirrh Stake, has held teaching and executive positions in al] the auxiliaries of the Church. Her Many positions in Relief Society have Arlene Sonntag Kirton. Daughter of Lena Tadje and Richard Peter Sonntag, and wife of Wilford W. Kirton, Jr., of Ensign Fifth 649 No ti ce ' » « "er "4 we «3 7 as s. = 2 af p re ta P, Ls ef Mme, ITS cre Bers In discontinuing the Relief Society Magazine as of December 1970, there are two choices open to Magazine subscribers whose subscriptions extend beyond the December issue. Subscribers may have their subscriptions transferred to the new adult (only) magazine, issue for issue, or they may have their credit balance refunded. In refunding, twenty-five cents will be paid for individual copies, $1.25 will be paid for six months, and $2.50 will be refunded for a year's subscription. If we do not hear from you by October 1, 1970, we will automatically transfer your subscription issue for issue to the new adult magazine. Should you have already been given a three months' credit on the Era subscription, and a three months' credit on an Instructor subscription, and you had six months' credit coming on the Relief Society Magazine you would then receive a year's subscription to the new magazine. If you desire to have the credit balance on your subscription refunded, kindly paste a copy of your address label from the last issue of your Relief Society Magazine to this form and send it to Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, before October 1. | & REFUND COUPON Since | do not desire to apply my credit balance to me. (Send coupon to Relief Society subscription credit to Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main the adult magazine after December Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.) 1970, please refund the remaining Name Ward Address Stake City State Zip Please attach here mailing label from your last magazine. 650 RETURN TO SEPTEMBER | had forgotten September: Its green leaves melting into orange, Its roses bravely blooming in the wind, Its warm-cool breezes wafting fragrant smoke Across a valley glowing in the light. It is so easy to forget September When April lilacs purple in the sun And June cascades its blossoms to the ground, And even August lures us with the smell Of fresh-cut clover; but September waits In patient expectation that the pause It gives between two seasons will be filled With children's laughter, falling leaves, And mountains donning paisley shawls against The nights when snow puts caps upon their heads. | came back to September, and | now recall That this is a month to treasure every day Of aster amethyst set in chrysanthemum gold And filigree of aspens' thinning leaves. Once more September is a month apart— A brilliant jewel in nature's diadem. —Pansye H. Powell PHOTO BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS And a Ray of Light May Gleam Lucy Parr @ With a sigh of satisfaction, Nora Hudson sank back from her kneeling position. Absently, she brushed at the soil on her hands as she glanced down the row of late marigold plants. In her mind she could already see their blooming, bright color the entire length of the driveway, right through the first frost. Hugh would be pleased that sheshad found time today to get the plants set out. Now he would have time on Saturday for the trimming and spading he had mentioned. ~ Nora' glanced at the angle of the sun and quickly reached for her trowel. Pushing herself with this. Planting meant a further push to have dinner prepared by the time Hugh arrived. He had the * meeting tonight, so she mustn't' be late. Nor could she linger here to, enjoy the fruits of stiff muscles and grimy hands, as she. Lovedto do after a day of gardening. One more glance-at a job well done, and Nora moved toward the back door. She stiffened.. Not again! Stepping behind the screen of the honeysuckle vine, Nora peered toward the front walk. Those two! Her impatience exploded. That made twice in the past week. And no guessing how many. Times in weeks before, even just the times she had caught sight of those two little imps slipping over to her garden. Nora wanted to shout her anger. But, as always, the words did not quite reach her lips. Those two always looked so little, so innocent. Innocent? No. Time after time coming right into the yard, helping themselves to her hard-won blossoms. Hers and Hugh's. This past year as much of his effort and interest as hers had gone into making this final, permanent home a place of beauty. And not a word was being said to stop this depredation. Not from that Mr. And Mrs. Estrada. As if they couldn't see—or didn't care. They couldn't help knowing where the blossoms had come from, time after time. Certainly not from their own yard. In early spring the Estrada family had bought 'the place next door. Certainly early enough to have spaded and planted and made the place look respectable. But no—not an ounce of effort—or pride. Well, perhaps not Cruz Estrada. The man was seldom home before full dark, even on these long summer days. She had heard that he held two jobs. But then at least the woman should have pride to do a little about the way the place looked. Self-pride. Neighborhood pride. But not a spadeful of soil turned this whole growing season. The lawn did get cut on weekends, and the shrubs barely trimmed. Nora let the screen door slam sharply, and then felt a touch of shame. The act had a hateful sound even to her own ears. And as she went about her hurried meal preparations, she found that some of her eagerness and satisfaction for the afternoon's accomplishment had wilted and drooped, like a poorly rooted seedling in the hot sun of her anger. "But it isn't too much to expect," she defended, as potato peelings fell away under her hands. "We waited so long—Hugh and I—to realize this dream of a real home, a permanent home. A place for putting down real roots—roots of friendship, and of trees and shrubs and flowers that spell a real home." The sort of things that mean no more wandering! Nora almost shouted aloud. Glancing at the small green house next door, Nora's impatience welled up once more. What was she to do? If the Estradas meant to do nothing about the thievery of those two, then surely someone must speak of it. To maintain silence gave the impression of condoning the acts. But they were so little, such big dark eyes. Little Carlos couldn't be many months past five, Tomas not yet four. And they still were somewhat strangers. Perhaps she had been remiss, she had not made the effort she might have toward being friendly. But it had been clear from the start that there was at least some language problem. Then so soon after the new neighbors had come, Nora herself had gone to Colorado to help Janet when baby Denise was born. Since then she had seemed continually to be at least one step behind where she had hoped to be in fulfilling the demands on her time. And there had been little opportunity, or encouragement, toward neighborliness. Mrs. Estrada seldom even stepped outside, a few times on the hottest days coming as far as_ the porch. Nora pushed the thought from her mind, turning to plans for dinner and Hugh's arrival. The week passed rapidly. Saturday was a joy with Hugh at home, doing the garden work together in silence or with talk breaks as mood and proximity dictated. Nora could not resist pausing several times to check on the welfare of her row of marigolds. She kept close track of the mortality rate two plants that had succumbed to heat: prostration, two to the ravages of some sneaky, chewing varmint. But the re- 653 September 1970 mainder of the seedlings gave every indication of becoming firmly downrooted. "They wouldn't dare not thrive," Hugh teased when she leaned over the newly planted bed. "They'll grow, if for no other reason than to escape your displeasure at the mere thought of failure." Hugh laughed, leaning on the spading fork. But his eyes said that it was good, the two of them —the dream, right here in living color. On Sunday Ralph and Ellen drove the thirty miles for one of Nora's fix-ahead dinners between Sunday School and early sacrament meeting. As often as not they stayed for meeting in the old home ward. The visits were a pleasure that winter weather and slick roads would all too soon curtail. Nora set the last of the dinner dishes away and untied her apron. After she patted the wisps of hair into place, and slipped into her better shoes again, she would be ready to join the others for the two-block walk to church. "Oh!" Nora barely caught her sharp cry before it could become a wail of dismay. She lifted the kitchen curtain aside. Those two! They had gone too far this time. Simply too far for silence. Up to this point, the little boys had been content with petunias or asters, a couple of larkspurs. Always two—no more or less—one for each, though Carlos usually did the picking. But now! To have them start on her dahlias—the Silver Lady ones! For weeks to have watched the buds form, swell, and open 654 their hearts to the sun, white, flushed pink. And then to have those two take two of the best blossoms. Nora's throat choked on the rush of anger. She could barely form an answer, "Be right there," when Hugh called to question her delay. Along with a touch of lipstick, Nora drew a tight smile across her lips. There was no point in spoiling the remainder of Ralph's and Ellen's visit. And it seemed such a small thing—on the surface. But it was the accumulation of so many small things that had grown too large to bear. The smile settled naturally to her lips, but she had little to add to the conversation as the four of them walked to church, answered greetings of others in the foyer, and found seats in the chapel. Time after time, she pushed anger from her heart, only to feel it rising again. Through the first part of the meeting she felt distracted, out of tune with the service being conducted. And at last she determined that she must take a hand—no longer to look the other way. She would call on the Estradas tomorrow. Speak to the mother. Demand an end to the stealing. It was for the good of the little boys, too, wasn't it? Automatically, Nora put out a hand to help Hugh in holding the hymnbook. She would make every effort to speak calmly, even in a tone of triendliness. She would make that effort. But likely the mother would take exception. Or worse, meet her protest flippantly, the way sO many young mother's now seemed prone to do. Nora's back stiffened in anticipation as her mind searched for words to meet whatever was to come. Without conscious thought she followed the words of the hymn. She had sung it often, the words familiar. And then her voice broke on a sharp note—almost a cry of despair. She felt Hugh turn a little as her hand twitched the corner of the hymnbook. But she held herself still, did not look at him. School thy feelings, O my brother; Train thy warm impulsive soul; Do not its emotions smother, But let wisdom's voice control. Nora's head lifted. She looked directly at Bishop Barnes, half expecting the kindly man to be watching her. Had he guessed? Might he have seen into her heart, to read the anger and turmoil there? Thehymn continued, words entering her heart as never before. Gauge thy wrath by wisdom's standard; Keep thy rising anger down. Rising anger? It had risen out of all bounds. It had risen to block out all else—even the beauty of the sacrament service. With an effort, Nora forced her thoughts to center on Brother Alton, the first speaker. Then the Stoddard girls' duet. Words of the hymn continued in her mind throughout the meeting, and for the rest of the evening. Hugh asked for no explanation of her lapse of attention. And as yet she was unready to give one. She was a long time in drifting off to sleep. Rest would not come until she had at last settled in And A Ray of Light May Gleam her mind what must be done. She would go to see the mother. But in less anger than she had first intended. Next morning, Nora found herself facing the chore with a definite reluctance. Neighbors for more than four months and she did not even know Mrs. Estrada's first name. Perhaps this call need not be made, a part of her mind reasoned. A few words to Carlos and Tomaéas—might not that suffice? Resolutely, Nora tapped on the Estrada door. After a moment the door opened slowly. A puzzled expression on the young woman's face —a pretty face—and then a smile of recognition. "Oh—it is the Mrs. Hud-son. You would please come in?" Nora found herself in a neat, though sparsely furnished room. Bright and clean. She pulled her eyes from the two Silver Lady dahlias in a lovely vase on the table by the window. Later that part must come later. Nora was vaguely aware of the two little boys hanging near the doorway, not quite sure whether to come inside. She was directed to the most comfortable chair in the room. In her halting way, the young woman attempted to set Nora at ease. "So good—that you should call. Not often do I go from house. But one day, and another, brings back strength " "Strength? Then you have been—ill?" "Tll—yes. Very. But now I grow better." And now Nora learned that Consuela Estrada—she asked the name—had lost a baby just days 655 September 1970 before the family had moved here. She had come to this house directly from her stay in the hospital. "And so—the gladness of a home is some saddened that there is not to be another child." The young mother's face grew sad with the words. Then her smile returned. "But now I begin to do more. Now I can care for good home." She put a hand out toward Nora, then drew it back shyly. "So good to have neigh-bor. One to speak with." Consuela Estrada's smile was sweet to see. But Nora could not answer. She was glad that the young woman turned away from her. "And—oh—the flowers you have sent these weeks. From your own garden." Nora swallowed twice and still could not speak. Consuela looked toward the dahlias; sunlight streaked across the outer petals of one of them, making it appear almost translucent. The mother seemed not to hear the small stir of movement near the door. But Nora heard. She saw the quick, frightened expressions on the faces of the two little boys. Bravely they stood where they were, their big eyes looking deep into her own. Still Nora could not speak past the tightness in her throat. Little Carlos took a step toward her. "So much does Mama love things of beauty. Especially the sweetness of flowers. For long, there was not much beauty for her. Until now." Obviously, they had told their mother only a part. It had been for Mama, who loved things of 656 beauty. Nora was not sure how she managed the words—or the smile. "But, now there can be many flowers for your mother." She was rewarded by a lessening of worry in the eyes of the two boys. The mother turned. "So good. That there should be neighbors." And so terrible that Consuela is only partly right in her belief, Nora thought in anguish. Terrible that there had not been neighborliness long ago. Terrible that she had not cared enough to learn of these neighbors, of their heartache and loneliness... Consuela, ill and a stranger. But, oh, thank God for blessed repentance—that there could be a second chance. Time for partially making up, with the fall flowers yet to come. And in the spring—Nora's mind _ raced ahead. In the spring, when Consuela had regained her strength, an opportunity for sharing the knowledge of flowers which had brought such joy to herself, along with slips and starts and seedlings. The dream could be made better by sharing with others who also had waited long. In answer to Consuela Estrada's unspoken need for talk, Nora stayed far longer than she had intended. But she crossed the adjoining lawns with a feeling of freedom such as she had not known for much too long, a feeling of happiness, of gratitude. Gratitude! For this blessing of forgiveness. That there were not deep scars that perhaps could never have been healed. Flowers could be replaced. But a child's feelings—! A hurt. Not to be recalled. a. Ramona W. Cannon Senora Virginia de Velasquez of Panama was chosen coordinator in a seven-milliondollar administrative reform program directed by a commission comprising government officials of ministerial level and leading private citizens. She is one of a number of Panamanian women who have excelled in government administration. Mrs. Margaret Court of Australia defeated Mrs. Billie Jean King of Long Beach, California in the all-English women's singles international tennis championship contest at Wimbledon. This is Mrs. Court's third win, and Mrs. King has also won three times in the great Wimbledon spectacular. Women have been admitted to many universities, for the first time, during 1969 and 1970. Included are Yale, Assumption College, Rockhurst, and Kenyon. Elisabeth Mann Borgese, of Santa Barbara, California, daughter of the German novelist Thomas Mann, is the only woman senior fellow at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions. As senior fellow, she set up the six-day ''Peace in the Oceans" conference which opened at Malta June 28, at which two hundred delegates from sixty nations (including Jacques Piccard, Switzerland, and Clare Boothe Luce, United States) discussed international oceanic problems. Mrs. Marjabella Young and Mrs. Ann Buchwald (wife of syndicated columnist and humorist Art Buchwald) have coauthored a book for young boys, Stand Up, Shake Hands, Say How Do You Do? This is a light-hearted approach to the problem of manners, which once mastered, help to place a boy in command of situations. Women of the United States, according to the World Health Organization's longevity chart, rank twelfth among nations of the world in life expectancy— 73.7 years. Dutch women live longest—75.9 years; Swedish, Norwegian, French, and Icelandic women follow, in that order, and not far behind. Lieutenant Colonel Virginia Bernhisel, formerly of Utah, is assistant for congressional matters to the director of Manpower and Organization for Air Force Headquarters in Washington, D. C., with her office in the Pentagon. Mrs. Mal Englander, a forty-five-year-old grandmother, has been chosen chairman of the board for a proposed First Women's Bank. Of Florida. Nine women are seeking a charter to establish and operate this institution. One function would be to train women to take care of their financial matters. Very few banks managed by women exist anywhere, and it appears this would be the first in America., 657 Editorial / Welcome The Call w ''We would like you to be...."" How many times these words are spoken in the Church! Sometimes they bring a sense of fulfillment to the one being addressed. Sometimes a feeling almost of panic, but always an awareness of one's personal inadequacies and a deep response of humility are present. When one recognizes that the priesthood who do the calling are inspired of the Lord, it is no wonder that the usual mental response is, ''Oh, how can | do that? Oh, why did they ask me?"' Yet the verbal negative responses are extremely rare because of the recognition of authority and the principle of obedience to that authority. Usually in calling a sister to an office in Relief Society her talents and capabilities are observed and she is recommended for the particular strengths she possesses which apply to the particular office to which she is called. That is not always the case, however, and hence the sense of panic which may possess a woman when she feels inadequate for a calling. If she feels capable there will not be much doubt in her mind but that she will accept the calling, other things being favorable, but if she feels poorly prepared and inadequate then she should give the most careful attention to her own ability to fulfill it. In the first place she knows that the calling has come from the Lord through his priesthood. Her Heavenly Father is seeking her progress, she knows, and so it may be the potential to which he is looking. ' A noteworthy example is a sister who was called to be homemaking leader who had never sewed in her life. Her feelings were almost indescribable, but she believed in obedience to authority and inspiration so she sat down seriously to consider how she could ever accept the calling. First thing she enrolled in a dressmaking class and she studied, " San Volume 57 September 1970 Number 9 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 658 observed, and practiced other homemaking skills. She found that she developed a great liking for those skills and today she stands out as a most efficient homemaker, also well known for her capability as a homemaking leader. Her family life has become more meaningful and systematized. Another sister was called to be a cultural refinement class leader. She had not had a college education and felt unfitted for her calling, but relying on the help of the Lord she began to study and turned her attention to the arts. Her activities resulted in a change of attitude and living on her part which has greatly enriched her own life and that of her family and home surroundings. Basic to the acceptance of a call is a belief that if one does her best the spirit of the Lord will guide and sustain her. A woman must go forward in faith. She should not make apologies nor excuses before the sisters as to her weaknesses as that may cast reflection on the ones who called her, but she must go forward humbly and prayerfully. She was not given the calling to fail but to succeed. She has also been given the authority to fulfill her calling, so she must succeed. Each soul is precious in the sight of the Lord and he gives to each of his daughters the opportunity to progress on to perfection. Great growth and development in different fields come to an individual as she fulfills her callings in Relief Society. Through her close association with other officers and members lasting friendships are made in the loving bonds of sisterhood, associations of an enduring nature. To paraphrase a well-known phrase, ''Welcome the call that makes you go beyond yourself.'' —M. C. S. Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred S. Manwaring Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Belva B. Ashton Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Dariene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Rebe O. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Maurine M. Haycock Amy Y. Valentine Marian R. Boyer Orlene J. Poulsen Marjorie M. Reeve Ada J. Jones Helen G. Lach Aline R. Pettit Johna de St. Jeor Beverly J. Pond Inez T. Waldron Anna Jean B. Skidmore Helen W. Jeppson Arlene S. Kirton 659 The Secret of Blueberry Hill Rosa Lee Lioyd Chapter 3 SYNOPSIS: Johnny, Steve, Elizabeth, and Lila McIntyre are making plans for the funeral of their beloved Aunt Lucinda. A childhood friend Norman Strong is staying with them. Lila has dined occasionally with her employer, Scott Harrington, the bank president, but does not feel she really knows him. Scott comes to pay his respects to the family, and seems captivated by the beautiful Elizabeth. @ Scott Harrington said goodnight shortly after dinner was over. "It has been nice to be together," he told them as they walked to the front porch. He hesitated, then he went on. "Your Aunt Lucinda was part of my life, too. She left her mark on everyone who knew her, old and young. She expected us to do certain things and we did them!" "How true!" Steven agreed with a heavy sigh. "I wonder— will Skylark ever have another Lucinda McIntyre?" 660 Lila couldn't speak for the sob in her throat. She walked to the end of the long porch and stood there looking up at the great white moon shining down on Skylark. Oh, Aunt Lucinda, she whispered to herself, I wish P could talk to you again. You knew what each of us needed and now we need you more than ever. She closed her eyes and a gentle peace came to her. Aunt Lucinda would want them to remember everything she had taught them and she had often told them that jealousy was self-depreciation. "Be proud of yourself and what you are," she would advise them. Lila lifted her head, gratefully. Those words were a message to her. She would be proud of herself and look forward to what life had for her. She must let go of the dream she had built up around Scott ever since she was a little girl. After all, he wasn't a knight in shining armor. He was an ordinary man, still charming and attractive, but older, too, as old as Steven and Elizabeth while Lila was only twenty-two. Someone touched her shoulder. Norman was standing beside her. "Let's go for a walk," he coaxed her. "T should help with the dishes," she protested, mildly. "Silly girl! There are three of them to do dishes. Come on." They strolled along Clover Street, hands swinging together. "Someday we'll have sidewalks out here," she said. "I like it this way," he said dreamily. "Country streets and ditch banks and sunflowers in the fields look good to me after those crowded cities." They walked on silently. He smiled down at her. "You didn't eat all your steak," he said. "I cooked that one especially for you." "Well done," she answered, "but juicy, too. That's a clever trick. You do so many things for me, Norman. You always have. And I haven't done any special things for you." He turned her around and made her look up at him. "You are special to me, Lila. Very special. Someday soon—I will tell you—but not tonight. Tonight belongs to our memory of Aunt Lucinda. If it hadn't been for her I might have given up hoping that you would ever —care for me—the way I care for you." A kind of wonder touched Lila's heart. Had Norman cared The Secret of Blueberry Hill for her all these years? Their eyes caught and held. Why hadn't she noticed before that his eyes were velvet brown and very serious. She had thought the wistful look in them had been brotherly tenderness because she was Johnny's sister and Johnny always teased her. "Norman—" she touched his hand. "I can't say how I feel— I'm so confused without Aunt Lucinda. She was so wise, Norman. How can I go on?" "It won't be easy for you, Lila," he answered. "You've been protected here in Skylark from the way some girls think nowadays. I am glad you have been— so is Johnny. Even though he teases you, he's really proud of you, Lila Bob." "I'm going to Kansas City with him after the funeral— just for a short trip." "IT know'—he murmured. "I have to fly to San Francisco right after the funeral, too. I have commitments I have postponed. But anytime you need me [''ll come to you. Remember that." "Thank you, Norman. [ll remember." They strolled on in silence. Norman seemed to realize she was heavy with grief for Aunt Lucinda. She wasn't ready to talk much or make decisions. The moonlight bathed them in silver glory. Norman said, "I can't get used to thinking of the moon as a great round rockcovered sphere of metal. Landing up there was marvelous. We are all grateful for scientific accomplishment, but do you know something?" "What?" she qucaeaa "T'll bet the astronauts who 661 September 1970 landed up there are still intrigued by a moonlit night. The world without the moonlight would be a very dull place. It would be like spring without blossoms or green grass or birds in the trees or the part of us' that reaches out for beauty." "Norman," Lila smiled at him, "you're a poet. I thought you were all tied up with figures and sales reports and business meetings with maybe a game of golf or a ski jump on the side for exercise." His hand closed around hers as they walked on. "You have a lot to learn about me, Lila Bob," he told her. "Shall we go back now? You should sleep better after this walk." "YT will," she said gratefully. "Oh, I will, Norman." Elizabeth and Steven were sitting in the porch swing when they returned. The fragrance of Aunt Lucinda's flower garden made Lila draw in her breath. "Johnny went to bed," Elizabeth told them. "He said he would like to sleep for twenty years." "That boy really worked. So did Norman. They cleaned the house and cooked the dinner," Steven added. "Who did the dishes?" Lila asked. "I shouldn't have run away." "Nonsense!" Elizabeth smiled at her. "The moonlight did you good. It's in your eyes and your hair—even your voice has a silver tone. Thanks, Norman, for taking our little sister on a moon-walk."' "My pleasure," he grinned. Lila thought how young he is, tall and straight, with a freshly scrubbed look like a little boy 662 on his first day at school. Elizabeth stood up. "Bedtime," she said. "Norman, you and Steven can have the twin beds in the front room _ upstairs. Steven and I made them up while you were gone. Come on, Punkin." She took Lila's hand and together they went up to Lila's room. Elizabeth closed the door and kicked off her shoes. "First thing I do when I'm tired," she said. She sat down on the rocker looking at Lila who was stepping out of her skirt. "IT can work twelve hours a day," she went on, "and that's real work, with life and death responsibility, and yet I don't get as tired as I am right now. I guess—it's because Aunt Lucinda isn't here—anymore. She's gone —Lila Bob." Her voice broke and she covered her face with her hands. Lila knelt beside her and held her in a tight embrace. She hadn't seen Elizabeth cry like this before. Elizabeth was the strong one of the family. She was like Aunt Lucinda. "IT know," Lila whispered. "What can we do without her? Who loves us the way she did? She was our mother and our father. We're lost, Elizabeth. Really lost." They clung together weeping. At last Elizabeth said, fiercely: "We have each other, Lila. _ Nothing must ever come between us. Nothing—no one." "No one ever could," Lila assured her, dabbing at her eyes as she got to her feet. She undressed quickly and put on a fresh white nightgown but she was still crying. She realized the struggle in- side her sister. Elizabeth had been aware that Scott was attracted to her. What woman wouldn't be, Lila reasoned? There had been magic between them at the dinner table. And later when he said goodnight, all his remarks had been for Elizabeth. His eyes had lingered on her as though really seeing her for the first time. No doubt Johnny had noticed and the thought that Lila would be hurt had sent him off to bed heartsick for her. Steven, too. And now Elizabeth was torn apart with grief for Aunt Lucinda and anxiety that Lila would be offended. Lila smiled down at_ her through her tears. How did you tell an older, wiser sister that you were able to realize that she had the charm and dignity that appealed to Scott. Someday there might be a way to say these things but not tonight. Tonight belonged to thinking of Aunt Lucinda as Norman had said, of going over in their minds what she would want them to do now that she was gone. Elizabeth dried her eyes with the handkerchief Lila offered her. Her voice was steady again. "Steven and I had a long talk while you were walking. We have decided to ask Scott for the loan for the hospital. He can at least think it over." "T think he will let you have it, Elizabeth. But it will have to be a civic project. Everyone in town will have to contribute. We need a hospital in Skylark. Only last month Toddle Dean nearly died before they got her to Porterville for an appendectomy." "Toddle Dean?" Elizabeth questioned. "Isn't she your friend The Secret of Blueberry Hill who sings in the choir?" "Yes—only now she _ sings solos and most people call her Thelma because she is slender and doesn't bounce anymore. She is such a darling friend. I would like her to sing at the funeral. Not long ago we had a "sing-in" here at home. Aunt Lucinda enjoyed it so much. She asked Toddle to sing a favorite song of hers. It isn't a funeral song but it sort of expresses the way Aunt Lucinda felt about everybody." "What is it?" Elizabeth asked. ""May the Good Lord Bless and Keep You,'" Lila told her. Elizabeth nodded. "If Steven and Johnny agree we'll ask Toddle to sing it. We must have the high school glee club. That was one of her favorite projects. We should have some special kind of flowers for her casket. Something— extraordinary—the way she was." Lila's eyes brightened. "Like Calla lilies," she exclaimed. "Johnny sent her a_ beautiful bouquet of Calla lilies on her last birthday. They came by air from Kansas City. Let's talk to him in the morning." "We will, honey." Elizabeth's eyes closed, "Calla liles—will be perfect." Lila leaned over and laid her head on Elizabeth's breast. "I am so glad you are my sister," she whispered. "Go to sleep little Pie-face," Elizabeth murmured. It was a large funeral. People came from miles away to pay honor to Aunt Lucinda, to express gratitude for all she had done for everyone in the community. So many teenagers and young couples were in the congregation 663 September 1970 that Johnny whispered to Lila: "No generation gap here. I wish some of my far-our friends could see this crowd." "Aunt Lucinda didn't think about anybody's age," Lila whispered back. "She said we all belong to Heavenly Father. Some have just been here longer than others. They deserve a little more cane" Bishop Campbell was a tall, lean man with a lined Lincolnesque face. The poems he chose were an inspiration and today as he talked about Aunt Lucinda some of the heaviness lifted from Lila's heart. She sat quietly between Johnny and Elizabeth. Steven and Norman were _ together further down the bench. When Toddle Dean sang the song she and Elizabeth had selected everyone was misty eyed. It was a farewell to all those who had known her. Lila loved every flower that had been sent. She appreciated the little bouquets of sunflowers from the school children as much as the laurel wreath from the board of education. She sighed gratefully as her eyes lingered on the elegant spray of Calla lilies that almost covered the white casket. What an effort Johnny had made to have it arrive in time for the funeral. Telegrams, telephone calls and, finally, he had contacted a pilot friend of his to bring it in a private plane. Of course it was extravagant, Lila admitted, but it was a symbol of their devotion to Aunt Lucinda. At last it was time for the high school glee club to pay tribute to Aunt Lucinda. Two 664 by two they walked up the aisle. Lila noticed their radiant young faces and the way they were dressed, the girls in gray jumpers and long sleeved white blouses, the boys in gray trousers with white shirts. She leaned forward staring at one boy as he took his place in line. Casey Wilkins, standing proud and tall among them! Casey had had a haircut! No word that had been spoken, no song that had been sung, no flower of gratitude was a greater tribute to Aunt Lucinda than Casey Wilkins' haircut! Lila wept but her heart lifted and sang with Casey. She hoped Aunt Lucinda could look down and smile on him. He had made a supreme sacrifice to please her. After the funeral and the grave dedication, they drove to the airport to see Norman off for San Francisco. Each in his own way told Norman how he was appreciated. Lila walked to the gate with him. Her face was tearstained and her nose was shiny. A swift breeze tumbled her hair into a curly mass. "What a wind!" she said. Huge black clouds gathered together in the sky. The sun was a shadowy blur and a_ weird whistling sound filled the air. "A tornado!" Norman yelled. "Hurry back, Lila. Tell Johnny to step on it! It's a real dilly!" "Don't go, Norman," Lila pled, but he disappeared into the crowd getting on the plane. "Lila—make it snappy!" Johnny shouted to her. Suddenly the whole sky was a black funnel roaring toward them! (to be continued) Con for All Occasions Mary J. Wilson Former Member, General Board of Relief Society STUFFED DATE DROPS 1 Ib. Pitted dates (about 70) 1% c. Sifted flour 13 oz. Package pecan nuts ¥2 tsp. Baking powder Y4 c. Shortening 14 tsp. Soda % c. Brown sugar Y% tsp. Salt 1 egg Y2 c. Commercial sour cream Stuff dates with nut halves and cut into 5 or 6 pieces with scissors. Cream shortening and sugar until light. Beat egg and add to shortening and sugar mixture. Sift dry ingredients, add alternately with sour cream to creamed mixture. Stir in dates, drop on greased cookie sheet. Bake in hot oven (400°) 8 to 10 minutes. Cool and top with - panocha icing. Se Panocha Icing 1 c. Brown sugar (packed) Yc. Milk Yc. Butter, 1% to 2 c. Sifted confectioner's sugar Melt butter in saucepan. Add brown sugar. Boil over low heat 2 minutes, stirring constantly. Stir in milk. Bring to boil, stirring constantly. Cool to lukewarm. Gradually add confectioner's sugar. Beat until thick enough to spread. If icing becomes too stiff, add a little hot water. Ss CAIC 1 isa e] ponrxKc 1 8 d ) 1 c. Soft butter or substitute Y2 tsp. Each—cloves and allspice 1% c. Brown sugar, packed 2c. Buttermilk 3 eggs 6 c. Pecan halves 3 c. Sifted flour 1 Ib. Whole candied cherries 1 tsp. Soda 6 slices candied pineapple, diced % tsp. Salt 2 c. Coarsely diced dates 2 tsp. Cinnamon Cream butter and sugar until light. Beat in eggs. Add sifted dry ingredients and milk; mix well. Pour batter over nuts and fruits and mix well by hand. Drop from teaspoon on cookie sheets. Bake at 325° for 20 to 25 minutes. Makes from 10 to 12 dozen. A CHOCOLATE MINT COOKIES To 2 beaten eggs add 12 cup shortening melted and 1 c. Sugar. Add 2 tsp. Peppermint flavoring and 2 squares of unsweetened chocolate melted. Stir until blended. Add '% cup of sifted flour and 2 cup shredded walnuts. Mix well. Pour this batter into a 9-inch square pan. Bake in moderate oven (350°) for 25 minutes. Cool the baked layer about 30 minutes. Thoroughly blend 2 tbsp. Softened shortening and 1 tbsp. Of cream. Add 1 tbsp. Of peppermint flavoring and 1 cup of confectioner's sugar sifted. Blend well. Spread 665 Land of Peace Frances C. Yost AUSTRIA FRANCE ® On A 30, 1896, a little boy Named Fred Yost celebrated his fourth bj thday on a Steamshi Ica. Red Yost ria, and on and a Popu- September 1970 Italian. In the southeast area is spoken still another language known as Romanish. Agriculture, manufacturing, and tourism are means of livelihood. Almost eight thousand hotels are available nightly. The capital is Berne, the largest city is Zurich. Other large cities are Basel, Geneva, Lausanne, St. Gallen, Winterthur, and Lucerne. The Congress of Vienna in 1815 recognized the perpetual neutrality of Switzerland. In 1919 the peace conference of Versailles reaffirmed this neutrality. Because of it, Switzerland is the seat of international organizations, among them the Postal Union, Telegraphic Union, Literary Property, International Labor Office, The International Red Cross, the World Health Organization, and others. Known worldwide for its high mountains, Switzerland has fifty summits over 12,000 feet high. Its glaciers are numbered by the hundreds and cover almost a thousand square miles. Hydroelectric power is the one resource which is plentiful. Raw products of coal, oil, tar, cotton, silk, cocoa, iron, steel, and copper are all imported. OUR SWISS RELATIVES Ernst Gerber, first cousin to Grandpa, and his beautiful French wife Theresa are here at the Zurich airport to meet us. The more than a hundred-mile ride from Zurich to their home in Arlesheim in a fine English car gives me opportunity to view the magnificent scenery. I try hard to receive a lasting impression of the countryside, for I know I may not pass this way again, and the earth was never dressed more beautifully. Quaint homes among the greenery of forest, grass, and shrubs are adorned with window boxes full of gay flowers of many varieties and colors. The Swiss are a neat people. They never leave a weed to grow. With a fine pride of country, a housewife sweeps up any debris in the street in front of her house. ARLESHEIM The city of Arlesheim, Grandpa tells me, was originally Arles home, and gradually grew into its present size. The beautiful Gerber home at Arlesheim has three stories. The first floor is largely offices for the Gerber business, import-export of fine woods. A goodly number of buildings have, under one roof, both business and living quarters. Doctors usually have their offices in part of their homes. My room on the third floor is decorated in pink, with a large polar bear rug on the floor. The fine furniture is hand carved of exotic woods. My window on the west overlooks a garden growing in a natural appearing state. Tiny white daisies sprinkle the lawn. Vines and trees add a woodland touch. The Gerber garden is a refuge for the finest of Swiss birds. Regu-? 668 Seeing Switzerland—Land of Peace larly each morning at four a bird chorus serenades us. This is not a simple "tweet-tweet." One listening can recognize alto, tenor, bass, and soprano. With such melodious overtures from tiny throats, I realize again the multiplicity of sights and sounds in this lovely land. Switzerland attracts song birds, and they are protected and fed. THE MOUNTAINS AND THE VALLEYS It is from this Gerber home we go forth each day, or for a period of three days at a time, to view the whole of beautiful Switzerland. Someone more wise than I once said "When you visit the people, leave your heart, not words." This I find I must do, for, too often, we only understand with our hearts and eyes and smiles. However, I have a few essential words of German and French, and learn a few more as the days pass. Rested and refreshed, Ernst drives us to the top of one of the smaller mountains. Looking over the valley, one wonders if it is not as God created it. Sunbeams play on field and stream, on fern and shrub, evergreens and edelweiss, the Swiss national flower. In this setting is a huge white wishing rock. At a farm home we stop to see friends of Ernst and Grandpa. It is haying time. Swiss hay is more like wild grass than alfalfa. A young Swiss frau, wearing a dress and no gloves, is feeding the hay into a chopping machine. With a fork, her husband is pitching the chopped hay into a wire silage container, where the patriarch of the family is stacking it. Upon our arrival, the father leaves the work for the younger folks, and he shows us around. His herd of fine Brown Swiss cows awaiting milking are in the barn. We go around the chalet and enter the family quarters. He introduces his wife, who is busy preparing herbs for winter. The kitchen is clean. At one end of the room is a table with two benches which seat at least sixteen. At the far end is an electric stove, and a large built-in oven which would accommodate many huge loaves of bread at one baking. One entire wall is lined with cupboards. The Swiss frau serves us large slices of brown bread, while her husband pours apple juice. This farmer has a small tractor. Most farmers still use horses, or do all their own labor. Farms cannot be broken up among the family. Usually the youngest son takes over when his father is too old to work. Farms cannot be sold for building lots. Trees cannot be cut except when marked by an official tree surgeon. Dead trees are never left standing. OVERLOOKING THE RHINE RIVER Picture yourself standing with me on a high building 'to view the river. Here boats and barges move steadily. To our right is Germany, to our left is France, and we stand on the tip of Switzerland in the 669 September 1970 Basel area. The Canal Du Rhone has been cut through France from the Rhine River to the Mediterranean Sea. When the Suez Canal was operating, many small ships took this route to the Far East. Afternoon of the same day finds us hiking up a mountain to a medieval castle. Ernst gives a lesson in hiking—a slow steady pace, bending the knees slightly and flexing the muscles. As we walk he tells that when he was a very young man during World War I, he was a guide for mountain climbers. The second castle we visit is one which we can drive right up to in the car. The Swiss government preserves these ancient castles, some more than 600 years old, for everyone to enjoy. Often sharecroppers live in houses on the castle grounds. They raise the crops they desire on a sharecrop basis with the government. Trachselwald Castle in the Langnau area was painstakingly built of stone, in fort fashion, high on a hill. The castle rooms encircle a small courtyard where carriages of yesteryear could be safely kept inside the gate. Leading down from the castle proper is a long winding wooden stairway, with overhead shelter. At a lower level yet high on the hill, are several quaint old homes of ancient red brick. We are given a detailed tour—the room where school was held when the castle was in use; the smoke room above the fireplace where hams were cured. Fine old chests are found in each room. Their designs are ornate, and often they have carved or painted names, initials, and dates of long ago. Many fine old churches dot this inland country. Though we visit many, I will mention but one. The Mariastein Chapel was erected in 1636. The interior is well preserved and is rich with gold and statues. A steep stone stairway winds its way deep into the earth where other areas of worship are to be seen. Art is important to the Swiss. The art center in Basel is outstanding. These people did not wait for a grant from the government to buy fine art. Everyone raised money. Even little children contributed. Here Picasso's finest art is displayed. I buy small prints of original paintings which I especially like: Han Kuber's "La Famille," Rembrandt's "David Before King Saul," Vincent Van Gogh's "Mademoiselle at the Piano,' Pable Picasso's "Harlequin," to name a few. Shopping in the quaint stores is most enjoyable. Clerks are so patient, so helpful. At the cleaners the clothes are folded and wrapped. Eggs are purchased at the bakery. People are busy going places, there seems to be little loitering. They are happy, neat, and clean. Long hair and mini skirts are not seen. Seldom do we see a person smoking on the streets. If someone were accidently to drop a piece of paper, the next person would pick it up. Road signs are clever drawings rather than the printed word. Crosswalks will have a picture of a man walking. A school zone sign pictures children crossing. If road repairs are being made a sign portrays it. One sees a picture easier than he would read a sign. Little folks and foreigners can understand pictures. 670 Seeing Switzerland—Land of Peace GENEVA After spending Sunday with the saints at Basel, we start out for Geneva. The car ride is some 200 miles over hill and dale for we choose the scenic route instead of the autoban. The beautiful earth is dotted with ancient churches, castles, and huge red-roofed chalets. Grandpa explains that in times past a family was rated by the size of the roof. So, for social esteem, they put the animals and home under one large red-tile roof. We stop for lunch at Neichatel, a beautiful city on the shores of a lake by the same name. At length we come to the clear mirror-blue lake of Geneva. We realize that we have left the German-speaking area, and are now in the French. Even the architecture is different. Here at Geneva we are dinner guests of Malue Gerber and her handsome French husband Remy Dufour, and their two little girls. Malue, like her father, can sit at the table and direct the conversation in three or more languages. I have the honored seat next to the host, who speaks perfect French and German, but no English. It is difficult for me not to be able to converse with little children, but I have an abundance of balloons in my purse and they are enjoyed by little folks wherever I go. Our tour of Geneva takes us to the Red Cross Building and the League of Nations, to name but two. The Swiss Temple is located at Zollikofen, a suburb of Berne, the capital. This much appreciated edifice was dedicated September 11, 1955, by President McKay. President Walter Trauffer is a fine sociable man. It is German-speaking day at the temple and I enjoy every moment of it. A CHALET HOME Next morning, after a delicious continental breakfast garnished with a generous serving of Swiss cheese, we start for the high mountains to see Grandpa's birthplace. Like most chalet homes, it houses family and animals under the same roof. We see the room where Grandpa was born. It is a rare occasion in Switzerland when a home goes out of the family, as Grandpa's did seventy-three years ago when his family came to Utah as converts to the gospel. Up the mountain from Grandpa's old home we walk to call on cousins. We also walk down the hill to call on others. Again I see the joy Grandpa's coming brings to them. How swiftly their voices thrill over the Swiss words. What fine refreshments they bring forth to share with us. LUCERNE Lucerne is a large tourist attraction. We travel there by car. An oil-topped winding road takes us high on a peak overlooking Lake Lucerne, which reaches out like fingers on a hand. This is the home 671 September 1970 of movie stars and other Americans who have looked the world over for a heavenly place. Here at Lucerne is the famous old bridge across the Vierwaldstadter. The bridge was built originally in the sixteenth-. Century and skirts the prison tower which was built in the same period. Recently the bridge has been rebuilt, with the old rustic flavor still intact. In the gables of the bridge are more than a hundred triangular oil paintings depicting the history and legends of the surrounding country. We find one concerning Joachim Schumacher Yost. It is a swordfighting picture with the castle they defend in the background. The inscription when translated reads: "Call God for assistance who can give the victory." Lucerne is the gateway to the mountain climbing areas which have made this tiny country famous. The Jungfrau, with its great white peak the year around, stands serene. The Matterhorn challenges climbers from all over the world. The Zermatt is sought out by artists for its sheer, lofty beauty. It is on this trip I learn the difference in mountain climbing and mountain hiking: Climbers use the ropes and the chisel and go straight up the sheer walls. THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS IN SWITZERLAND Since the beginning of a mission of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Switzerland, there have been forty faithful men serve as presidents of the mission. Often the other countries affiliated had mission work disrupted during the two World Wars, but in Switzerland missionary work was maintained, though curtailed, during those critical times. Elder M. Elmer Christensen is presently serving as president of the Swiss Mission, with headquarters in Zurich. Here a beautiful mission headquarters is located. President Christensen states regarding the mission: The Swiss Mission has been designated by that term and has been existing as a separate mission from all other combinations during the following periods: November 24, 1851 to January 1854; January 1898 to 1904; February 1940 to April 1946; August 15, 1960 to the present time. There are now 4,672 members of the Church in the Swiss Mission. Of that number 3.577 are in Switzerland and 1,095 live in other areas under Swiss Mission supervision, which include Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Greece, Israel, Lebanon, Turkey, Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Poland, Hungary, Egypt. There are 450 members of the Relief Society in Switzerland and 600 in the total Swiss Mission. Sister Melba M. Christensen is supervisor of the Relief Society in the Swiss Mission. Sister Margaret Becker is president of the Relief Society in the Swiss Stake, and Sister Suzanne Daetwyler is president of the Bern-Lucern District Relief Society. The Swiss Stake was officially organized on the 27th of October 1961 by Elders Henry D. Moyle and Alvin R. Dyer of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The time has come to say goodbye to a beautiful land and her people—Switzerland, land of peace. 672 Typical hotel and restaurant in Langnau, Switzerland Ernst Gerber home in Arlesheim, Switzerland | ADH De 3 ee > ie AGERE G ~ re Hh | Lake Geneva, the largest lake in Switzerland, surrounded by magnificent mountains. Castle at Arlesheim, typical of the many castles in Switzerland. Note how small the carriages had to be to pass through this gate. The castles are preserved for the enjoyment of the Swiss people and for tourists. Old Tower Bridge at Lucerne. The tower, anciently, was used to house prisoners. Beneath the gables of this famous bridge are more than a hundred paintings depicting the history and legends of the surrounding country. Gabled roof of the Tower Bridge, showing historic painting and inscriptions. My. & <=. Wilk it Une le Owes e. Demdy evi \kcn Vex Brooches— -Lovely to Look atFasy to Mak Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society A love of things beautiful has ever been an inherent quality in women. The feminine desire for adornment appears to have been present throughout all ages of civilization. Today one need only to browse among the shops and market places in most any part of the world to find them full of interesting, colorful jewelry, typical of that country and its culture. Though much of the jewelry displayed may be relatively new in design and finish, many of the most attractive pieces are replicas or adaptations of an older craftsmanship. Though probably relatively new in design and finish, they are all replicas, reproductions, or adaptations of the jewelry of some ancient era.. One of the earliest and most useful articles of jewelry was the brooch or pin (known to the Romans as a fibula). Irrespective of name, evidences have been found substantiating their existence and use by the earliest civilizations. They were a necessary invention, since their orginal function was to fasten parts of clothing together. Museum exhibits show fascinating examples of early Egyptian, Roman, and AngloSaxon creations. Some designs undoubtedly served as a basis for the present day safety pin. Down through the centuries as the mode of dress changed, the brooch cr pin became a most valued article. Historians tell us that at one time in early England these pins became so valuable and scarce that they were offered for sale but once each year and then for just two days. Undoubtedly women planned for this important event by carefully saving their money or, if they were fortunate, their husbands provided the necessary funds. The money used came to be known as "pin money" a term which we hear and frequently use today. Modern women have found the brooch a simple yet lovely accessory to a costume. Most of us remember a special brooch worn by our mothers or grandmothers. I have fond memonies of a small delicately hand-painted oval one and a large impressive cameo brooch worn by the grandmothers in our family. Today, costume pins or brooches can be found in almost any color, size, or design. The price range is sufficiently broad to fit most any pocketbook so they are popular with old and young alike. Relief Society in recent years through our homemaking department has introduced several varieties of pins which one can make for oneself. Among them paper maché and simulated antique jewelry. These have been made and enjoyed by many Relief Society sisters. The pins or brooches shown in the accompanying picture are another example of interesting Relief Society handiwork, and I will venture to say few will guess at first sight their ongin. A discarded eyeglass lens forms the shape and frame, add a pretty picture and a little know-how, and the brooch is yours. Won't you try one for yourself to match that special dress or suit? (continued on page 691) 676 To Grase aggre Mer yous wae When Mrs. Mark H. Greene of Salt Lake City observed her eightieth birthday, the greetings and the congratulations from the most important people—her children and grandchildren— A were handmade originals. They were so intimately expressive and so representative of each personality that Mrs. Greene re- "Different" gards them as treasures for long companionship. One card illustrates a bandmaster directing an orchestra which Birthday plays the theme GRANDMOTHER in large important letters; another card displays a figurine made of seashells, hand-painted and effectively arranged. A large and elegantly lettered card— gold on brown—carries the proclamation "Champ of Grandmothers." A grandson expresses himself in no uncertain terms: TRANSPARENCIES BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS TO GRANDMOTHER From your loving—talented charming devoted unselfish hard-working smart clever ingenious honest adorable GRANDSON Who is so much like you, MP Sams Methane de Low oe Sacked upan woth —~¢4 Grandmother Happy Birthday! TRANSPARENCIES BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS Great-grandmother Fisher lived most of her married life in Woolwich (northeast London) on the Thames river. Her husband was one of the heads of the shipbuilding at the Woolwich dockyards. In that locality it was a good thing she liked fish. Today we eat fresh fish from all over the world, and I suppose our cooking is influenced by those in our family who cooked before us. Great-grandmother liked fresh oysters for breakfast, and when she lived with us in Bountiful, Utah, her eyes sparkled when baked fish was served for dinner. She liked trout cooked in sour cream. Her son John Fisher of Bountiful had a private trout pond in the field below his house. Baked Trout in Sour Cream Sauce 4 whole trout (red 1 pt. Sour cream snapper, salmon, 2 tbsp. Grated onion whitefish, or 12 c. Minced celery Ahout other preferred salt and pepper ) out fish) to taste Fish If the fish is whole, place thin lemon slices, some parsley, celery leaves, and shredded carrot Linnie F. Robinson inside. This is good for any whole fish. Combine ingredients for sauce and pour over the fish. Bake 45 minutes in 400° oven. Sprinkle Parmesan cheese over top. If the fish ts frozen it may need 1 hour to cook. | serve green peas with the fish. Lean fish is more tasty if it is larded, and by "larding" we mean inserting bacon strips or salt pork in gashes cut in the sides of the fish to make the meat more fat and juicy. The lean fish include trout, black bass, cod, and the fish of the flounder family. Halibut is especially lean and is more flavorsome fried in deep fat or wrapped in cheesecloth and baked in milk, then served with sauce. Milk removes the strong odor of fish. Whitefish and mackerel do not need larding. Below is another sauce for baked fish. 678 Fish Sauce 1 pt. Salad dressing (homemade or other) 3 tbsp. Chopped sweet pickle dash garlic YQ tsp. Onion juice (optional) salt and pepper to taste Combine ingredients and serve with baked fish. When unexpected company comes I serve a quick seafood casserole and baked potatoes. I wash, oil, and wrap the potatoes in foil and put them in a 400° oven for 50 minutes. Quick Baked Seafood 1 pt. Salad 1 tbsp. Minced dressing or chives or mayonnaise onion 3 tbsp. Creeaam 1 6% 0z. Can or canned cleaned milk shrimp 1_ 4 oz. Can 2 6% oz. Cans sliced picrab, flaked miento 2 tsps. Lemon 1 tbsp. Sugar juice Combine ingredients, salt and pepper to taste, and pour into a casserole and bake in the oven in which the potatoes have been placed twenty minutes earlier. All you need is to get the contents hot and bubbly, about '¥% hour. While the potatoes and seafood bake, | set the table, prepare a tossed salad, and arrange on a tray some of the fruits of the season for dessert. Serves 7-8. Another quick baked seafood is "Quick Baked Lobster." Quick Baked Lobster 4 cans lobster salt and pep- (about 26 oz. _ per to taste total) ¥3 c. Toasted 4 |b. Butter cracker 3 tbsp. Flour crumbs 1 pt. Cream, dash of half-andpaprika half, or 2 tbsp. Melted canned butter milk Yc. Parmesan 1 beaten egg cheese, grated 2 tbsp. Lemon 6 slices juice cooked bacon Fry diced lobster in butter until hot. Stir flour into butter and add cream. Stir and cook until thickened. Add egg and cook only a few seconds more. Remove from heat and add lemon juice, salt and pepper. Pour into a casserole. Combine crumbs, melted butter, paprika, and cheese and sprinkle on top. Bake at 350° for 12 hour. Ten minutes before casserole is done lay bacon strips over the top. 679 PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE AUTHOR An Heirloom Quilt JoAnne Baker I call this an "Heirloom Quilt" because it has my husband's parents' life story on it. The center block is a map of where they were born, later moved, and now live. Just above is a picture of Samantha and Claud and their hobbies. Each block represents something in their lives such as a story about a watermelon or a schoolhouse. They canned many fruits and vegetables and raised horses and cattle. On the bottom are representations of each of their children and their professions. The front is made of one square 31%," x 281/," and twenty squares 161/," x 14%". The back is two pieces 36" x 90" sewed together. I used 7'/, yards for back and front edges, tore four pieces 5" wide, and the rest of this material makes four blocks for the front. Figures were appliqued on small blocks, put together, and then quilted. Left to right: Marilyn Draney, who made the items shown; Emma Bloxham, President Twentyfirst Ward Relief Society; Miriam M. Richins, Education Counselor. A "Bring and Brag" Table Miriam M. Richins The Twenty-first Ward Relief Society, Emigration Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, displays at each homemaking meeting the handicraft of its members on a "Bring and Brag" table. A sign on the wall above the table designates the area as a focal point of the meeting. Each month one member has the responsibility of exhibiting articles she has made. Others are encouraged to add to the display. One sister has been making children's clothing for the exhibit. This is also her money-making project for the ward building fund. Another sister has shown her crocheting and knitting patterns. The variety and high quality of the display have inspired a desire for better workmanship and more artistic creations. This sharing of ideas has proved interesting to the members and has promoted enthusiasm for the homemaking program. 681 TRANSPARENCIES BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS Autumn Portrait Of a Spring and Summer Garden "A garden is a lovesome thing," the poet Thomas E. Brown wrote many years ago, but DasleneC ected we should add, to be honest, not without "worksome" hours. The time spent in selecting, planting, weeding, cultivating, and watering must be allocated to the demands of seed and flower and stem—the growing cycle and the Member, General Board of Relief Society resting season. With careful planning a garden can be a panorama of color from the time the first crocus pushes its way through the snow until a hard frost takes the last blossom of the brave chrysanthemum. Autumn in any land can be rewarding in its cycle of sun and shadow. It is a time of harvesting the beauty of summer-long hours, and it is also the season for planning the springtime garden. The coming of the growing season makes so many demands on the time of the garden maker that all the accomplishments of autumn will be an early harvest of beauty in the green and growing time. Fall Time Activities: 1. Clean up the entire garden.. Remove all weeds before they go to seed. 2. Spade under in a trench the fallen leaves and faded blossoms to enrich the soil during the rest time of winter. 3. Mound over the rose roots with dead leaves and soil for protection against winter cold. 4. Divide perennials. A good rule to follow is to divide in the fall any plant which blooms in the spring, such as irises, poppies, peonies, daisies, primroses, and spring blooming bulbs. Divide in the spring any plant which blooms in the fall, for instance, the chrysanthemum. Apply mulch around young trees and shrubs and perennials. Save the seed of your favorite annuals—zinnias, marigolds, and asters. Place the seeds of each flower in a separate envelope and write on the envelope the name and color of the flower. This autumn activity can save time and money— perhaps provide an unusual gift for a friend. ~S An experimental gardener may explore a lovely, flowerbordered path of interesting surprises by planting seeds in the fall, keeping in mind, of course, the requirements of the climate in your area. Flowers which scatter their own "volunteer" seeds, such as snapdragons and_ sunflowers, could have an experimental planting made in late. Summer or autumn. Pansies planted in the late summer or early fall break into radiant bloom in springtime sunshine, and primroses can do some rapid growing in the three months of autumn. Cosmos are abundant "seeders," and once you have a cosmos "patch" there will be forever in your garden the fragile beauty of long stems, feather foliage, and the indescribable satin of cosmos blossoms. Some varieties of larkspur, and many petunias decide for themselves where they want to be, and many gardeners learn from such floral "accidents" which seeds may be planted in the fall in the areas of their own outdoor environment. Gardening is a_ hobby having multiple rewards— beauty, outdoor enjoyment, a forgetting of worldwide and personal problems in the variable kingdom of the flowers where nature makes the rules and the gardener learns compliance and discovery—learns the ways of autumn and the compensating seasons—spring and summer. Reflections Leila Grace Bassford TRANSPARENCIES BY THE AUTHOR Poplars, Mount Timpanogos, Utah, in background. What beautiful pictures reflections make! Anyone can achieve a greater appreciation for form and color by observing their repeated signatures in nature and in art. The tiniest pool of rainwater may reflect trees and sky, just as the largest lake may. Even the raindrop may reflect a rainbow! The photographer is always charmed and beguiled by reflections. He delights in photographing a clear, unrippled lake, with the mountain that towers above it, the clouds drifting overhead, and the trees and flowers that fringe its borders, faithfully reproduced upon its smooth expanse. Even when a wandering breeze stitches neat shallow ruffles upon its surface, this does not conceal the color and sparkle in the reflection that he sees in the onginal, nor diminish his enthusiasm for making pictures Mount Moran and Jackson Lake, Wyoming. Pond in Millcreek Canyon, Utah of it. Around such places as a boat dock, or in a quiet section of a bay, with the gentle lapping of waves, it is a delight to photograph the reflections that are an integral part of the scene. The universe teems with natural wonders. Reflections are but a small fraction of them. Nevertheless, it can become enjoyable and exciting to watch for and detect these shimmering duplicate images, and the smaller and less obvious they are, the more exciting the game. And this simple pastime costs nothing, trains the eye, and enhances our delight in the infinitude of beauties nature has lavished upon our world. Red Rock Crossing, Oak Creek Canyon, Arizona Santa Fe Springs Second Ward (Spanish) Norwalk Stake, California Celebrates the Anniversary of Relief Society Left to right: Patricia Rebulcara and Luisa Espinosa, representing North America; Elviera Rebulcara and Juanita Villanueva, representing Mexico; Delia Guinaldo and Carmela Valentich, representing Argentina. The Spanish sisters enjoyed a dinner and a special drama written by Carmela Valentich. Six sisters demonstrated the sisterhood of Relief Society and the blessings that come from the same faith and the same teachings for the Relief Society women every where. Nagoya Branch, Japan Central Mission Relief Society Home Nursing Program Chieko Okazaki, Supervisor, Japan Central Mission Relief Society, reports that the sisters in the home nursing program are receiving much important information and are taking part in demonstrations of nursing skills. The program, initiated in June in the Nagoya and Kobe Branches, is being extended to branches in the Osaka area. heh, me - at Ss r) & al ae "LITTLE WHITE GIRL" by James Abbott McNeill Whistler (1843-1903—American) Painting in the National Gallery, London, Transparency by Alpha Photo Associates, Inc. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6, An Affirmation of Spiritual Values Commentary on page 690 687 "LA BONNE MERE" by Jean Honoré Fragonard (French 1732-1806) Courtesy, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston Bequest of Robert Treat Paine, II For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 7, Ideal Family Relationships Commentary on opposite page 688 "'La Bonne Mere"' By Jean Honoré Fragonard (1732-1806—French) Courtesy, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston Bequest of Robert Treat Paine II For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 7 Ideal Family Relationships Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: September 1971 Reproduction of Painting on opposite page Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt Chairman, Department of Art, Brigham Young University Because of the problems, sorrows, and pain in life, we look forward with hope to the millennium, a time of peace and joy. We work toward ideals of perfection perhaps not completely attainable in this life but ultimately our goal. Consequently we should govern our relationships with family and each other in such a way that we come as near to this goal as possible here and now. There are times, however, when the trials seem insurmountable and we are tempted to look for an escape. We dream. We indulge in flights of fancy which may lead to overindulgence. When this happens, progress toward our ideal is thwarted. During the time of the French Revolution there were realists who attempted to isolate and solve the problems. There were also those who sought escape in flights of fancy and overindulgence to avoid the terrible reality of the time. The aristocracy in their court life developed a blindness to reality, as was evidenced by the dalliance, gaiety, sentimentality, and sham which became the surface covering for the corruptness within. Art reflects the society from which it springs. Daumier, the social realist described in an earlier lesson, "Advice to a Young Artist," portrayed the social upheaval and the problems of the common man, whereas Jean Honoré Fragonard painted the veneer, the facade, of the upper classes. At thirty-seven Fragonard married and the influence of this event upon his life is reflected in the changed nature of his subjects. Rather than the frivolity of the courts, he turned more toward the interests of his home and family. "La Bonne Mére" ("The Good Mother") is an example of this change. Study it carefully—a great subject painted by a master with the brush. Although the decorative quality, the idyllic setting, the sweetness, the prettiness seem to supersede the grand theme of the title, it is a great painting because it makes an aesthetically satisfying, well-executed, and truthful statement about the times. Perhaps what we need most is a clarity of vision, or discernment to recognize that which is real and that which is of true worth. Ideal relationships, family or otherwise, are based on sound practical principles which, if practiced, move us toward our goal of perfection. 689 'Little White Girl'' By James Abbott McNeill Whistler (1843-1903—American) Painting in the National Gallery, London Transparency by Alpha Photo Associates, Inc. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6 An Affirmation of Spiritual Values Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: August 1971 Reproduction of Painting page 687 'Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt Chairman, Department of Art, Brigham Young University It has been said that the laborer works with his hands, the craftsman works with his hands and his head, and the artist works with his hands, his head, and his heart. Without the heart it is not art. To describe what heart means is as difficult as trying to describe an aesthetic or spiritual feeling. Such feelings and understandings seem to come only through experience. When all of the variable elements come into harmony—even for a fleeting second—when the pieces of the jigsaw puzzle fall into place, one sees or he experiences a feeling of rightness. This revelation is often accompanied by or gives rise to a wonderfully warm emotional response. The greatness of Whistler's works is due to the feeling of rightness they evoke. His paintings are not intended to tell a story but are purely aesthetic—some would call them spinitual. "The Little White Girl" is a good example of the serene feeling of rightness—the proper blend of subject, content, and form. The aestheticspiritual qualities are evidenced in the wistful purity of her expression and in the simplicity of her white dress. The image lingers in our memory and we recall with pleasure its beauty. It might be interesting to compare this painting with Wordsworth's poem "I Wandered Lonely As a Cloud." Although the subject matter is not the same, the experience is related as suggested by the last stanza: For oft when on my couch I lie In vacant or in pensive mood, They flash upon that inward eye Which is the bliss of solitude; And then my heart with pleasure fills And dances with the daffodils. (Out of the Best Books, 3:5.) 690 The Golden Mask Mary Clough Some of the ancient Egyptian kings ordered massive temples and monuments built, not only to insure their places in history, but also to impress the gods with whom they thought they would be associating after death. Thousands of slaves spent their lives laboring to make sure their kings would have a prominent place in the hereafter. King Tut-ankh-Amen's tomb was one of the more modest ones, consisting of only a few rooms. Perhaps his early death prevented him from erecting a pyramid, but his slaves carved and embossed beautiful art objects of gold and precious stones to adorn his last resting place. He even had a store of wheat as food for his journey into another life. The most fabulous of his preparations was a life-sized golden mask to preserve and enhance his image. When his life ended, King Tut's body and all his treasures were sealed away from earthly intruders. Centuries later, when the tomb was opened, nothing had been disturbed. The wheat was still in its containers, the treasures in their carefully arranged niches, and the golden mask still covered the face of the crumbling mummy which had once been a proud ruler. None of these things had guaranteed him immortality. Imagine his surprise to find he had to face his Maker empty handed and without the golden mask to conceal the lines of unconcern for his fellow men that may have been etched on his face during the years he was commanding his slaves to prepare a happy and prosperous place for him in the hereafter. None of us can take our gold and silver with us into eternity nor cover our faces with a mask to conceal the story of our lives from God; nor should we one day be surprised to find we cannot depend on someone else's work to gain our individual salvation. Each of us must build his own place in the hereafter. A Brooches—Lovely to Look At—Easy to Make (continued from p. 676) Here are the simple instructions: MATERIALS Obtain several eyeglass lenses from an eye doctor—in various shapes. Pictures: Cards or designs from firm wrapping paper can be used. For making pins for teenagers, wrapping paper may be used effectively. Glue (good quality). Contact paper (paper with an adhesive back). Basic pin (usually found at craft shops). Paint brush (fine). Gold paint (small bottle, similar to that used to paint model planes). INSTRUCTIONS Glue design on back of lens. Trim edge of paper. Cover with Contact paper. Trim edge very close. Paint the edge with gold paint. Glue back of pin to contact paper. (Follow directions on the glue bottle.) Let the glue harden one or two days before wearing pin. 691 Special Moment Linda M. Campora oe @ It was a warm autumn morning, and there on a bench amid fallen leaves, I sat with my three sweet children. Birds sang happily from the branches above. It was so peaceful and serene, my fourand five-year-olds felt as though they should whisper. We put the baby on the grass, and for a few moments, said nothing. The cemetery was almost deserted, except for a man mowing the lawn in the distance, and two caretakers preparing a burial plot. We had come this special morning to remember another of our family, our first baby son who had died at four months of age. The children had seen pictures of their brother and had spoken about him occasionally, but this was the first time I had brought them with me to see his grave. I suppose I felt extra sentimental this particular day. It would have been his seventh birthday, and our new baby boy was just four months old. I looked at him, and remembered the sorrow and emptiness followed by great strength and courage given us by our Father in heaven. The children had picked flowers from the yard, and they placed them tenderly on the grave. Of course, they were full of questions. "What is the man digging the hole for? Will our new baby die, too? Will I be a grandpa when I die?" As many times as we had discussed the body and spirit in Family Home Evening, and on other occasions, here was a more choice moment for learning. There under the tree in that beautiful atmosphere, we talked about how the spirit leaves the body at death and goes on to live with Heavenly Father; that our body is a house for our spirit, and so when the spirit leaves, the empty body is placed in the grave until some beautiful morning, when our spirit comes back to our body, which is called the resurrection. I told them how exciting it will be to have a shining, glorious body which will never be weakened by sickness and which can never die again. We talked about what a happy day it would be for all of the members of the family to be together, and what fun we would have with our baby in our new home with Jesus and Heavenly Father. They were so excited, and my son marveled at the power God has and how he could do this. We decided it didn't matter how, only that we know he can and he will. They were quiet again, and with tears forming in her brown eyes, my four-year-old said, "I would like to go to Heavenly Father's house right now." How thankful I am for the gospel. How blessed our children are when they can grow up with this plain and precious understanding of life and death, and not the fears and doubts which come from ignorance. Most important, how careful must we be as parents to teach them to walk uprightly before the Lord. Do we recognize and use these rare and special moments when we can nurture the seeds of testimony which have been planted in their young spirits? We must make them strong for the turbulent days to come. The greatest gift we, as parents, can give, is a lifetime of training in the gospel of Jesus Christ. 692 Lula Holt Shepherd, First Ward, Kolob Stake, Springville, Utah, is well-known for the beauty she has brought into the homes of her many friends and family members. She has given over 100 quilts on various occasions. Numerous dish towels, pillowcases, hot pads, and other articles of handwork have pleased recipients. Sister Shepherd has shared her talent for quilting by serving as a member of the quilting committee. She now sends birthday cards to the Relief Society sisters in her ward. She has served as a visiting teacher for forty years. Sister Shepherd is the mother of seven children, twenty-three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild. Each has a quilt and pair of pillowcases. She enjoys her work and enjoys sharing her talents with others. Isabelle R. Cardon, Benson Ward, East Cache Stake, Utah, has a favorite motto: ''Service is the rent we pay for the space we occupy.'' She has tried to live by this motto since her girlhood. Her seven children, thirty-four grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren have ail benefitted from her many talents. Warm quilts have been especially appreciated by all. Lovely pillowcases and tablecloths adorn each home. She has served in many teaching positions in the auxiliaries of the Church, including cultural refinement class leader in Relief Society. In 1965 she was chosen as the Northern Utah Mother of the Year. ain a. Relief Society Activities Since The Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue, stake Relief Society presidents and mission Relief Society supervisors are advised to make no further submissions of 'Notes From the Field," inasmuch as a sufficient number of Notes are already on hand for the remaining issues of the Magazine. Palm Springs Stake (California), Banning Ward Turns Back Clock To Celebrate Relief Society Birthday March 17, 1970 Banning Ward Relief Society officers, left to right: June Brower, First Counselor; Lorna Cox, President; Colleen Mirci, Second Counselor; Leda Farley, Secretary-Treasurer, representing the original officers. Myrtle Oborn, former President, Palm Springs Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Banning Ward of our stake conducted a meeting in the manner, dress, and style that the first Relief Society meeting was conducted in 1842, using the original minutes as a guideline for a script written by Sandra Stolle. "An old-fashioned dinner was served, and impromptu entertainment as well as planned poems, songs, and pantomimes were enjoyed by all." Pauline Jackson is the new President of Palm Springs Stake Relief Society. Florida Mission, Suwannee District Honors Visiting Teachers May 9, 1970 Front row, left to right: Agnes Dickman, visiting teacher message leader, Florida Mission Relief Society; J. Murray Rawson, Mission President; Anna G. Rawson, Relief Society Supervisor; Ouida Williams, First Counselor; Tottie R. Brown, President, Suwannee District Relief Society; Vela Hawkins, Second Counselor; Ruth Allen, SecretaryTreasurer. Sister Rawson reports: ''The visiting teachers of the Suwannee District of the Florida Mission were honored for their services at a lovely program and luncheon held at Live Oak, Florida. The theme for the convention was 'Our Visiting Teachers —Angels of Mercy.' 'Dolls representing visiting teachers engaged in many compassionate services were used as decorations. Many of the sisters had to travel many miles to attend this convention, just as they travel many miles to carry out their calling.'' 694 September 1970 Box Elder Stake (Utah) Relief Society Holds Fashion Show, March 26, 1970 Front row, left to right: Joyce Whitten, homemaking leader, Eleventh Ward Relief Society; Lennidean Christensen, First Ward homemaking jeader. Back row, left to right: Dorothy Jeppsen, Mantua Ward President; Marva Frost, Ninth Ward homemaking leader; Chloe Sheffield, stake homemaking leader, \va Lou Hansen, Second Ward homemaking leader; Mary Lou Call, Sixth Ward. Bernice K. Rasmussen, President, Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A fashion show, 'Around the Clock Fashions for the Latter-day Saint Woman,' featured lovely fashions modeled by children, young mothers, and grandmothers. "Each ward had its own cleverly written script to present the fashions made by the sisters. Organ music was played during the program by LaRaine Petersen. The Ninth "Ward Singing Mothers presented two numbers with Naone Godfrey as chorister and Janet Long, organist. Refreshments were served and an enjoyable afternoon was spent by' all."' Chicago South Stake (Illinois) Relief Society Presents First Singing Mothers Concert April 24, 1970 Beryl A. Nisbet, President, Chicago South Stake Relief Society, reports: "Sixty Singing Mothers directed by Nada Hall, stake chorister, and accompanied by stake organist Margy Randel, performed their first concert. "In addition to nine numbers performed by the chorus, several vocal solos, a children's chorus, a string quartet, and a vocal reading were featured. "We enjoyed learning and performing together this beautiful music, and were rewarded by a large appreciative audience and an invitation to provide music for stake quarterly conference." | Ensign Stake (Utah), East Eighteenth Ward Relief Society Honors Wives Of All Church Presidents, March 23, 1970 Front row, left to right: Gwen E. Shurtleff, Second Counselor, Ensign Stake Relief Society Presidency; Ferne G. Hunter, First Counselor, Ruth E. Cutler, President; Jessie Evans Smith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith, Loa MacKay, President, East Eighteenth Ward Relief Society; Beth Miller, First Counselor; Margaret Reynolds, Second Counselor. Back row, left to right: Olena Harris; Tasma Dansie; Wilhelmina Freeman; Georgiana Brandley, ida Heywood; Mary MacKay; Vera Ellis; Beth Allen. Sister Cutler reports: "The East Eighteenth Ward of our stake paid tribute to the wives of the Presidents of the Church. A large picture of each sister was displayed on the wall, and they were portrayed by a sister in the ward (pictured) dressed in an authentic or original costume. "Sister Jessie Evans Smith, a member of the Eighteenth Ward Relief Society, was a special guest and her presence added much to the program, especially as she sang vocal solos. "Fach sister representing the wife of a president had done personal research and presented interesting anecdotes and stories about these loyal wives. The Singing Mothers directed by Tasma Dansie and accompanied by Lula Alldredge sang appropriate numbers and a ljuncheon was served."' 696 Are a agi (A =" » September 1970 Montana-Wyoming Mission, Rapid City Branch (South Dakota) Presents ''The Stranger Within Our Gates" May 16, 1970 Seated in front: Bernard Lamke. Seated, left to right: Julie Molen, cultural refinement class leader and director; Shirley Lamke; Darlene Hubbard; Bruce Molen, District Councilman. Standing, left to right: Sheryl Weyland, President, Rapid City Branch Relief Society; Sandra Weiss; Chris Farmer; Dixie Davis, chorister. Freda J. Leckie, President, Montana-Wyoming Mission Relief Society, reports: 'Members of the Rapid City Branch Relief Society presented the dramatization 'The Stranger Within Our. Gates' at the Black Hills District Relief Society Annual Visiting Teachers Convention. "Service to the sisters was stressed by District President Deanne P. Kelly who thanked the sisters for their devotion. A luncheon was served and each sister was presented with a potted plant.'' Boise Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present "'An Evening With Song" February 21, 1970 At far right of second row in dark dresses: Delores Lowder, stake organist; Joan Grover, stake chorister. Standing at right: Genevieve Cresswell, narrator. Lucile Johnson, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Our Singing Mothers numbered sixty-five, representing ten wards and one branch. We were assisted by several musicians in the stake. "The songs on the program told of the beauties of the earth. There were patriotic selections, a parade of flags, and a climax of spiritual songs. The narration featured several inspiring poems and included a tribute to Relief Society and Singing Mothers. "It was a delightful evening, thoroughly enjoyed by all in attendance."' Ashley Stake (Utah) Vernal Sixth Ward Holds "A Family Affair'' Bazaar, April 23, 1970 Front row, left to right: Louise Baxter; Birda Merkley; Shirley Duncan; Betty Stagg; Marilyn Oscarson; Shirley Millett; Glenna Adams; Venice Rooks; Mazie Christensen. Back row left to right: Elizabeth Jackson; Elva Allred, homemaking leader, Vernal Sixth Ward Relief Society; lla Angus; Loretta Reynolds, First Counselor; Carolyn Ellis, President; Birdie Searle, Second Counselor; Joan Robbins, SecretaryTreasurer. Delores Merkley, President, Ashley Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Vernal Sixth Ward of our stake held a very successful bazaar with the theme 'A Family Affair.' There were booths to entice every member of the family, and a turkey dinner was served."' 698 AFFAIR z « 2 = ns; ' September 1970 Deseret Stake (Utah), Oasis Ward Honors Past Presidents at Relief Society Birthday Party March 24, 1970 Former presidents of the Oasis Ward Relief Society, front row, left to right: Hilda Gillen; Jensine Anderson; Betsy Skeem; Erma T. Styler; Ethel B. Stanworth. Back row, left to right: Celia Christensen; LaVeda H. Bishop; Glenda C. Roundy; Ethel M. Stanworth, who also served as president of the stake Relief Society; Beulah W. Rowley; Claire W. Petersen, current President. Dana W. Bishop, President, Deseret Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Oasis Ward honored the past presidents and elderly sisters at a Relief Society birthday party, an annual event in this ward. "This is a very small ward, but it is always among the leaders of our stake in statistics and work accomplished. The sisters have a record of twenty-one consecutive years of 100 per cent visiting teaching."' Moroni Stake (Utah), Moroni East Ward Presents "'Fashions For Living,"' April 29, 1970 Front row, beginning seventh from left: Ivy Anderson, Counselor, Moroni East Ward Relief Society; Uarda Blackham, President; Joyce Nielsen, Counselor; beginning fourteenth from left; Valene Rasmussen, Counselor, Moroni Stake Relief Society; Bessie Cook, President; Edna Christensen, Counselor; Verdeen Jacobsen, SecretaryTreasurer. Sister Cook reports: ''A delightful program planned around the lines of Eliza R. Snow, 'Relief Society is an Order fitted and designed to meet the wants and needs of body and mind,' was enjoyed by 110 members of the Moroni East Ward Relief Society. Fifty participants modeled lovely clothing. Over 225 articles of arts and crafts made by talented members of the ward were displayed. A play, 'My Sister's Keeper,' was presented. Singing Mothers performed and a luncheon was served. It was a lovely presentation." Santa Barbara Stake (California) Visiting Teachers Honored For Faithful Service, May 4, 1970 Left to right: Anna Dee Packer; Muriel Redd; Lillie Smith; Roberta Boden; Nancy Lesue; Marlene Weatherly. Donna P. Bates, President, Santa Barbara Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We honored forty-six visiting teachers for one hundred percent visiting teaching and attendance at report meetings. "The highlight of the evening was a 'period' fashion show using authentic clothing from as far back as 1851. The theme for the narration written by Donna Pence was 'A Visit in Time.' "Lovely displays of antiques were attractive and popular. The refreshment table decorations featured dolls dressed in blue and gold period dresses made by Bessie Anderson, visiting teacher message leader. It was a most enjoyable evening attended by 275 visiting teachers." 700 —_- Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING Pearl of Great Price Lesson 3 The Premortality of Mankind Reading Assignment: Abraham, Chapter 3 Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, December 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, May 1971 OBJECTIVE: To gain a knowledge of premortal life and to examine the present-day value of this knowledge to a Latter-day Saint woman. INTRODUCTION A basic tenet of The Church of Jesus Christ is that all living things are created in spirit form before they have existence in this mortal life. This knowledge which is only lightly touched upon in the Bible is revealed anew that the fulness of truth given in earlier dispensations might come together in the dispensation of the fulness of times. (D&C 121:26-32.) The Patriarch Abraham learned by vision that he was one of those in the premortal world who was chosen before he was born on the earth to be a ruler. (Abr. 3:22-23.) Unto Moses the Lord revealed that all men were created in the spirit before they were naturally upon the earth. (Moses 3:5.) These teachings are 702 found in the Bible but only to a limited degree. (Jer. 1:5; Job 38:4, 7; Titus 1:1-2.) SPIRIT ENTITIES A description of the spirit of man is found in a modern revelation received by -tthe Prophet Joseph Smith: 'The spirit of man [is] in the likeness of his person." (D&C 77:2.) Another revealed experience confirming the truth that the body conforms to the premortal spirit is learned from the visit of the premortal Savior to the brother of Jared on the ancient American Continent. (Eth. 3:14-16; Orson Pratt, Journal of Discourses [Los Angeles: Gartner Printing & Litho Co., Inc., 1956], 3:352. Hereafter referred to as JD.) A CHILD OF GOD Man, therefore, is a dual being consisting of a physical body and a spirit entity. The spirit of man is the literal child of God. (Acts 17:27-28; Num. 16:22; 27:16; Heb. 12:9.) The First Presidency composed of Joseph F. Smith, John R. Winder, and Anthon H. Lund, set forth plainly this important truth in these words: The doctrine of the pre-existence,— revealed so plainly, particularly in the latter days, pours a wonderful flood of light upon the otherwise mysterious problem of man's ongin. It shows that man, as a spirit, was begotten and born of heavenly parents, and reared to maturity in the eternal mansions of the Father, prior to coming upon the earth in a temporal body to undergo an experience in mortality. It teaches that all men existed in the spirit before any man existed in the flesh, and that all who have inhabited the earth since Adam have taken bodies and become souls in like manner. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, basing its belief on divine revelation, ancient and modern, proclaims man to be the direct and lineal offspring of Deity. ("The Origin of Man," Improvement Era, vol. 13 [November 1909], pp. 75-81.) Class Discussion One of the doctrines of the Church is that man is literally a child of God. Discuss the importance to you of this fundamental truth. JESUS CHRIST THE FIRSTBORN As we are the literal spirit offspring of Deity, so Jesus Christ is the literal son of God in the spirit and also in the flesh. Jesus, however, is the firstborn of all the spirit sons and daughters of God, declares a modern revelation: "And now, verily I say unto you, I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the FirstLesson Department born." (D&C 93:21; Col. 1:15.) Latter-day Saints refer to the Savior as their elder brother because of his being the firstborn. (James E. Talmage, The Articles of Faith [Boston: University Press, 1968], p. 472.) That fact is indicated in the following words from Elder Orson Pratt: Have you not read, in the New Testament, that Jesus Christ was the first-born of every creature? From this reading it would seem that he was the oldest of the whole human family, that is, so far as his birth in the spirit world is concerned. How long ago since that birth took place is not revealed; it might have been unnumbered millions of years for aught we know. But we do know that he was bom and was the oldest of the family of spirits.... Does this refer to the birth of the body of flesh and bones? By no means, for there were hundreds of millions who were born upon our earth before the body of flesh and bones was born whom we call Jesus. How is it, then, that he is our elder brother? We must go back to the previous birth, before the. Foundation of this earth; we have to go back to past ages, to the period when he was begotten of the Father among the great family of spirits. (JD, 18:290.) The following word of caution was expressed by the First Presidency and Council of the Twelve Apostles on June 30, 1916, concerning the status of the Redeemer and our relationship to him as our Brother: There is no impropriety, therefore, in speaking of Jesus Christ as_ the Elder Brother of the rest of human kind.... Let it not be forgotten, however, that He is essentially greater than any and all others by reason (1) of his seniority as the oldest or firstborn; (2) of his unique status in the flesh as the offspring of a mortal mother and of an immortal, or resurrected and glonified, Father; (3) of his selection and foreordination as the one and only Re- 703 September 1970 Spirits who have ta bodies Upon this earth, for He is them. He is The Son, as they are Sons or daughters of Elohim. A Articles Of Fait, » PP. 472.73 ) Class Discussion THE SPIRITS OF MEN ARE ETERNAL The Lord revealed to Abraham that Spirits are eternal, for they SNal] exist after, are snolaum, or eternal " (Abr. 3:] 7-18.) It wa the Prophet Joseph Smith Ww revelation, also 3 received Information Concerning the eternity Its: m O the immo al spirit. Where did it come from? All learned Men and doctors of divinity Say that Created it In the beginning: but it js Ot so: the Very idea lessens man in my estimation, I do not believe the doc ne; I know better. Hear It, all ye €nds of the Orld; for God has told me > and if yoy don't believe me, It wil] t mak the truth Without effect, or the intelligence Which Sses is CO-equal [co-eternal] With God himself ~ yet that it b nning? The in telligen no ginning, neither ll it have an end.. There never was a time when there re not Spirits; foy they are CO-equa] [co-eternal] With Our Fa er - in heaven, (Joseph Fielding Smith, Comp., Teachings Of the Prophet Joseph Smith [Salt Lake City: eseret News Press, 1956], PP. 352-53. ) T made, Neither jn. + For man IS spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit element, in €parably Connected fulness of joy; and when Separated, Man that a question of this kind Was asked of the Firs the Church in 1912, and the fo]- lowing reply en: ed in the spiritual personality as the sons or daughters of the Eternal Father. (See Pearl of Great Price, Chap. 3, verses 5-7.) Jesus Christ was the Firstborn. A spirit born of God is an immortal being. When the body dies the spirit does not die. (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine {Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1968], p. 12.) President Joseph Fielding Smith wrote this observation concerning intelligence and spirit: Some of our writers have endeavored to explain what an intelligence is, but to do so is futile, for we have never been given any insight into this matter beyond what the Lord has fragmentarily revealed. We know, however, that there is something called intelligence which always existed. It is the real eternal part of man, which was not created or made. This intelligence combined with the spirit constitutes a spiritual identity or individual. The spirit of man, then, is a combination of the intelligence and the spirit which is an entity begotten of God. (Joseph Fielding Smith, The Progress of Man [Salt Lake City: Genealogical Society of Utah, 1936], p. 11.) VALUE OF THE DOCTRINE OF MAN'S ETERNITY Some "Christian" churches do not accept the doctrine that man lived a pre-earth life. Because of this fact, anti-Christian writers have reasoned that man had no voice nor choice in his creation; therefore, he cannot, in justice— an attribute of God—be held responsible for what he does in sinning. The conclusion reached by them is that the "Christian" God is unjust. The fact that premortality teaches that man lived for countless ages, in fact, forever before this life as an intelligence and spirit being, holds the answer to Many questions of man's earthlife, including the argument of anti-Christian writers. Lesson Department PREMORTALITY AND EARTH LIFE Unto Abraham the Lord said that Abraham was one of those in the premortal life who was "good," and, therefore, he was selected as a "ruler"—'"chosen before thou wast born." (Abr. 3:22-23.) This fact is an example of what we observe in this life— the differences among people as to intelligence, dispositions, and talents. Are these differences to be considered as having their origin in the earth-life? The answer is found in a number of discussions by Latter-day Saint authorities who have considered that the earth-life is but a continuation of the life before this one, and that there is a carryover from the former existence. Elder James E. Talmage said: Every spirit born in the flesh is an individual character, and brings to the body prepared for its tenancy a nature all its own. The tendencies, likes and dislikes, in short the whole disposition of the spirit may be intensified or changed by the course of mortal life, and the spirit may advance or retrograde while allied with its mortal tabernacle. The spirit lived as an _ organized intelligence before it became the embodied child of human parents; and its preexistent individualism will be of effect in its period of earth life. Even though the manifestations of primeval personality be largely smothered under the tendencies due to bodily and prenatal influence, it is there, and makes its mark. (The Vitality of Mormonism [Boston: Gorham Press, 1948), p. 232.) In a modern revelation, it is said that every spirit was innocent in the beginning. (D&C 93:38.) This truth indicates that each person is given a start on the way to eternal perfection. The fact that there were differences among the sons and daughters of 705 September 1970 God in premortality does not suggest that all are not considered precious in his sight. It does mean, however, that he will and does give them opportunities for development in earth-life commensurate with their capacities. He looks upon the apparent superiority of some spirits over others, as given in the following remarks by Elder Parley P. Pratt: Although some eternal intelligences may be superior to others, and although some are more noble, and consequently are elected to fill certain useful and necessary Offices for the good of others, yet the greater and the less may both be innocent, and both be justified, and be useful, each in their own capacity; if each magnify their own calling, and act in their own capacity, it is all right. (JD, 1:258.) These thoughts remind one of what the Lord said to Abraham concerning the differences among his premortal children. (Abr. 3:18-19.) It should be remembered that the reference to "intelligences" is. To an identity we each have composed of our spirit and that part of our eternal nature presently referred to as "intelligence." It is not intended to convey the impression that status in his kingdom or in the Church is based on intellectual capacity, a phrase often equated with intelligence. Many other qualities and virtues, love, faith, humility, patience, kindness, self-effacement, etc. Are as significant in terms of our relationships with God and with others as is intellectual capacity. The term "superior" used in reference to those called to positions of leadership must be construed to mean that they are better qualified to lead, but not necessarily that they are "su- 706 perior" in terms of spirituality or moral qualities. Class Discussion Since all are given opportunities in this life and, since man's conduct in one 'life conditions him for the life that follows, what responsibility does this place upon each of us? FOREORDINATION The premortal sons and daughters of God were foreordained to responsible positions in earth-life because as we have been taught, there was a development of traits and also a testing in the former life. (Orson F. Whitney, Saturday Night Thoughts [Salt Lake City: Deseret News, 1921], pp. 127-29; Joseph Fielding Smith, The Way to Perfection [Salt Lake City: Genealogical Society of Utah, 1935], pp. 50-53.) Elder Orson F. Whitney wrote that the doctrine of rewards and punishments taught in the scriptures applied in the pre-appointment of people to positions of responsibility. (Gal. 6:7.) Examples of this principle of preappointment are (1) Jeremiah and Joseph Smith, as well as Abraham (Jer. 1:5; 2 Ne. 2:22-26); (2) many priesthood bearers (Al. 13:3); (3) the wise men who were raised up to write the Constitution of the United States (D&C 101:80). Elder Talmage expressed the belief that God's knowledge of his sons and daughters in the preearth life was very extensive. He could "see the end of their earthly career even from the first." (Talmage, The Articles of Faith, p. 191.) He also wrote: "Everyone of us was known by name and character to the Father, who is 'the God of the spirits of all flesh' (Numbers 16: 22; 27:16), in our antemortal or primeval childhood; and from among the hosts of His unembodied children God chose for special service on earth such as were best suited to the accomplishment of His _ purposes." (Talmage, The Vitality of Mormonism, p. 229.) Notwithstanding this acquaintanceship and foreknowledge, Elder Talmage wrote: "God's knowledge of spiritual and of human nature enables Him to conclude with certainty as to the actions of any of His children under given conditions; yet that knowledge is not of compelling force upon the creature." (Talmage, The Articles of Faith, p. 191.) f The Prophet Joseph Smith was foreordained to one of the most important missions of this life. That even he could have failed to fulfill this calling is evidenced in a revelation given in 1830 to Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon. (D&C 35:18.) Referring to Joseph Smith we read the following: "... If he abide in me, and if not, another will I plant in _his stead." (Italics added.) Class Discussion 1. Discuss briefly the foregoing scripture (D&C 35:18) as to man's free agency. 2. Discuss the value of your knowledge of the doctrine of foreordination as it should influence the quality of your daily living. SECULAR EVENTS As one considers further the importance of the doctrine of premortality, including foreordination, he is able to see that the Lord is directing the affairs of Lesson Department men not only in religious events but also in other areas of the earth life. The Prophet Joseph Smith once said: Every man who has a calling to minister to the inhabitants of the world was ordained to that very purpose in the Grand Council of heaven before this world was. (DHC, 6:364.) As one thinks of the many prophecies concerning events of a secular nature, one is immediately brought to realize that many happenings concerning America were made known to Book of Mormon prophets centuries before they became history. Some examples of these are found in the vision given to Nephi, such as the coming of Columbus (1 Ne. 13: 12), the Pilgrims (1 Ne. 13:13-16), the Revolutionary War (1 Ne. 13:17-19), the destiny of America as a promised land (1 Ne. 13:17- 19; 2 Ne. 1:1-9; 10:19; Eth. 13:1-10.) SUMMARY We lived for countless ages before we were born on this earth. This important truth, revealed anew, but only partially made known in the Bible, stands as one of the most meaningful doctrines restored in these last days. As spirit beings we lived with our Eternal Father where we were nurtured in principles of truth with the understanding that we would receive an earth-life in which we would prove our loyalty to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. With this concept we are able to understand the purpose of our existence as well as our potential status as eternal beings. Born of Deity, we may reach the 707 September 1970 heights of godhood by obedience to the laws of progression. ~ We may also recognize that from the other side of the veil we have brought gifts and talents to be developed, acted upon, and used for the betterment of ourselves, our associates, and to advance the kingdom of God. The truth is that our life here is purposeful; we are here not by chance but by design; consequently, we have a mission, foreordained, to become eternal mothers and eternal fathers, but only on condition that we accept our responsibilities in this life as God has revealed them. The children born to us here are precious sons and daughters of God, lent to us that they might be strengthened in true principles to receive the opportunity to return home, having fulfilled the purpose. Of their creation. As to the world at large, we may understand, in part, how God governs this world through sending spirits of varying grades of capability to earth in time and in place. We are able to understand wherein God is just because the differences we find among men in this world were, by and large, differences which existed in the premortal life. Man, as a free agent, may choose the path of degradation or exaltation, but God has given him an opportunity to prove himself amid conditions which man anticipated, for he elected to come to this earth-life. (Joseph F. Smith, JD, 25:57)) | VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES—Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71) Message 3—Peacemakers Northern Hemisphere: First Week, December 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, May 1971 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that peace is a goal of the daughters of God. "Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other." (Ps. 85:10.) | The Swiss saints did not fight in World War II, but they well understood that part of the peace was binding up the wounds left from that great carnage. 708 The members of the Church in Austria lived far from the seaports into which came the mercy ships from Church members in the United States. The railroads, airfields, and roads had been bombed almost to shambles by the allies. Little aid trickled in. Hunger and illness were everywhere. As the summer began, the saints in Switzerland sent railroad tickets on one of the few functioning railroad lines for the children of the members in Austria to come and spend the summer with them. Pale, malnourished, ragged, the children set out. When fall came, the members in Austria went again to the railroad station to get their children. As they saw them climb down from the train, the parents stood and wept. They had diffculty in recognizing their own children! Plump, rosy-cheeked, well-dressed, lugging heavy suitcases full of new clothes and needed food, they were messengers from a forgotten world, but not a forgetting world. When God sent the Prince of Peace to earth, that birth was heralded by a multitude of heavenly hosts bringing our Heavenly Father's great wish, "peace, good will toward men." (Luke 2:14.) As the earthly ministry of that same Son drew near its end, his gift, in turn, to his disciples was, "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid." (John 14:27.) ae Lesson Department One day on a _ mountain, probably overlooking the peaceful Sea of Galilee, the Christ's great sermon included the promise, "Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God." (Matt. 5:9.) How are we to bring peace? How can we teach our children to love their enemies, to do good to them? How shall we in our violence-torn world help them to have the courage to "bless them that curse you," (Matt. 5:44) or, as Jesus did when he was reviled, revile not again? (1 Pet. 2:23.) Do we teach them to pray for those who mistreat them? How can we and they learn to overcome evil with good? How can we bind up the wounds of violence? How can we strengthen those who are working—not just crying for peace? How can we develop our capacities to understand others? If we stand in their shoes and look at ourselves as they look at us, perhaps we can gain insight into our own conduct as well as theirs and learn how to help them. The daughters of God are peacemakers "for the kingdom of God is not meat and drink; but mghteousness, and peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost." (Rom. 14:17.) LAMENT Oh, time—why won't you pass? And rush my children past this raucous stage? Ah, time—you went too fast! — Please turn back one brief page. —Oneita B. Sumsion. 709 HOMEMAKING—A Lovelier You Discussion 3—Refined Conduct, Self-Discipline, Self-Control Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, December 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, May 1971 OBJECTIVE: To show that a woman's actions speak loudly in revealing the kind of person she is. INTRODUCTION Becoming a lovelier you involves more than being outwardly attractive. To have beauty from within is as important as having it without. It requires the exercise of selfcontrol and self-discipline. WHAT IS "REFINED CONDUCT'? To be refined is to be courteous at all times, to want to give happiness to others, to speak truthfully, and to be considerate of the feelings of others. A wise mother does not wear one face for company and another face for the family. She does not smile sweetly to a neighbor and then seconds later become rude to her family. What other qualities indicate refined conduct? SELF-CONTROL All of us are guilty of feeling anger on occasion. Blind, unnecessary anger can be a very destructive force in our lives. Many times we become angry unnecessarily because we react to petty annoyances and frustrations: a driver honks his horn at us; someone interrupts us and doesn't pay attention while we're 710 talking; someone doesn't keep a promise to us; the bus we wanted to catch was late; traffic had to get into a snarl when we were hurrying to a plane. If we react to these petty annoyances with anger, resentment, ugly language, self-pity, it is an indication that we are not in complete control of ourselves. Our own peace of mind, the respect of others, and love for each other are destroyed when we fail to control our anger. The Prophet Joseph Smith exemplified self-control. This is evident in the following incident. He was awakened in the middle of the night and dragged outside by about a dozen men who proceeded to tar and feather him. After the horrible ordeal, his wife and friends worked the rest of the night scraping and removing the tar and washing and cleansing his body. The next day was the Sabbath and the people assembled for meeting. In the congregation were some of the mobbers. Still bearing the scars and scratches of the night before, the Prophet preached to the congregation without exhibiting either fear or anger. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co. 1957], 1:261-64.) CONSIDERATION OF OTHERS Are we ever so anxious to be the first in line at a sale that we forget to be courteous? Do we respect others on the highway by observing laws of courtesy as well as_ obeying traffic laws? Do we refrain from unnecessary and lengthy telephone calls and from useless gossip? Do we forget that we can be offensive to others in the little things, such as being late for appointments, talking too long and loudly, and using coarse language? Brigham Young said: If every person who professes to be a Latter-day Saint, was actually a Saint, our home would be a paradise, there would be nothing heard, nothing felt, nothing realized, but praise to the name of our God, doing our duty, and keeping his commandments.... In our daily pursuits in life, of whatever nature and kind, Latter-day Saints, and especially those who hold important positions in the Kingdom of God, should maintain a uniform and even temper, both when at home and when abroad. They should not suffer reverses and unpleasant circumstances to sour their natures and render them fretful and unsocial at home, speaking words full of bitterness and biting acrimony to their wives and children, creating gloom and a Lesson Department sorrow in their habitations, making themselves feared rather than loved by their families. (Discourses of Brigham Young, comp. John A. Widtsoe [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1966], pp. 203-4.) Mothers in Zion must recognize that the mental, moral, and spiritual pattern we establish in our homes will be imitated by our children. We are weaving the character of each child every day through the example we set. If we want our children to be happy, to mature into sound adulthood, and to love us, we must set the proper example before them. They are not just our children; they are individual human beings. They have a right to their opinions. When they speak, they should be listened to as we expect them to listen to us. We should refrain from unnecessary arguments, abusive language, and the tendency to belittle our children as individuals. Quiet, pleasant speech is always in good order. Parents at all times should respect the dignity of their children. CONCLUSION To be refined and courteous, to radiate faith and optimism always, to be warm and accepting, and to control our thoughts and actions will help to bring happiness to those we love and in turn make each one of us a lovelier person. MY PEN Emotion does have many faces, Though they be hid in varied places. Mine—too deep—flow silently Along my veins, Thence through my heart And out my pen—a vein apart. —Margaret B. Jorgensen 711 SOCIAL RELATIONS Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 3—Today's Child in Today's World Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, December 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, May 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help the Latter-day Saint woman more fully understand the relationship between a growing child's attitudes (toward self, family, and church), and his ability to cope successfully with the moral hazards to which he will be exposed. INTRODUCTION It has been emphasized that there are opposing forces all around us and that we need knowledge, experience, and inspiration to distinguish consistently among their respective influences. A growing person's vulnerability to moral hazards is related most importantly to his self-concept and the degree to which he holds himself in high esteem. One's self-concept, in turn, is greatly influenced by the way he is seen and responded to by others. Stress should be placed upon the importance of parents finding a balance between the expression of concern for a child's behavior and the appropriate transfer of responsibility to the child for his own decisions and his actions. Through wise parental guidance and a loving relationship, the young person may be assisted in developing a mature perspective concerning the balance between authority and free agency. Such a balanced view will enable him to cope more successfully with the moral hazards to which he will be exposed. We shall focus first on the hazards which 712 young people face and then on some of the positive qualities necessary in building a moral person. THE HAZARDS An example of the hazards about which parents are currently concerned is the use of drugs. Sociologists tell us that some of the problems which have caused young people to turn to drugs are embedded in the very structure and current actions of modern society. This truly may be an important factor. We find within the Church some people who have a misunderstanding of the principles of authority and free agency and are unable to harmonize the two. Some children feel that the authority of parents and of Church leaders is used to take away their free agency. Parental authority, control, and discipline are a necessary framework for the child's social development. But sometimes this authority is not exercised with good judgment and love, and sometimes it is not relinquished at the rate it should be for the child's best welfare. During this time of relinquishing authority, the parent needs to maintain good and close communication with the child. This often can mean being available for talks at 1:30 in the morning or just when dinner needs to be started. It means listening to the child and respecting his point of view. This may mean admitting that the parent is not infallible, and that the parent will apologize when he has made a faulty decision or taken a wrong action. This means standing by the child when he has made a mistake and reassuring him that he still has the parents' love and confidence. If this'is not done, the child may feel that parental authority is repressive. When parents react in cold and punitive ways (out of their concern and frustration), the young person takes this behavior as further justification for rebellion. This problem can be illustrated by looking in on the Johnson family. Nancy is the second child in the Johnson family. The parents love the Church and try very hard to see that both of the children, John and Nancy, attend to all of their Church duties. If either child ever wanted to miss a meeting, the parents were very anxious and upset and applied pressure on the children to conform. John adapted easily by doing as the parents wished. Nancy, however, was not as easy to direct, and she frequently quarreled with her parents about going to church and about other requests made of her. Until she was fifteen, Nancy usually gave obedience to her parents' wishes, but then she became self-assertLesson Department ive and, on occasion, stubbornly refused to do her parents' bidding. Screaming arguments which took place on these occasions were so painful that a showdown was avoided whenever possible. In school John made the honor roll, while Nancy had only average grades with an occasional failure. The parents felt that Nancy's ability was equal to John's, so they urged her to do as well as her brother and often held him up as an example for her to follow. After age (fifteen, Nancy showed less and less interest in church activities. She did not want to go to Mutual because she said the teachers were critical. In Sunday School she said that they only preached and never listened, and, besides, they took away her good Sunday School teacher. By age sixteen, Nancy was spending more and more time away from home. She had acquired a new set of friends. These friends were quiet and polite, but their standards of dress seemed to reflect dissenting tastes. They expressed themselves as objecting to the conformity and hypocrisy of the "straight" society. They seemed to have lost respect for the traditional and conforming ways of their parents. They were using drugs and said that marijauna had become a symbol of their protest. They felt that LSD represented a way of finding the meaning of life and the expansion of their mental powers. Feeling that school had become irrelevant to the major questions and problems of today, Nancy lost interest in pursuing education. 713 September 1970 By age seventeen, Nancy had moved into an apartment with her friends. Her personal hygiene and dress. Deteriorated (by her parents' standards) and her standards of sexual morality had changed dramatically for the worse. Nancy's standards of personal behavior, the absence of any continued self-development, and apparent deterioration in her own productive performance present to us a sad, but all-too-common story among young people who turn to the regular use of drugs as a focal point for their lives. Questions for Discussion What happened to cause this change in Nancy's life? Perhaps we will never know. ° A more important question might be, "Could anything along the way have altered Nancy's behavior toward a more comfortable incorporation of her parents' standards?" What counsel would you have given to Brother and Sister Johnson to help them develop more effective communication with Nancy? If you had been one of Nancy's teachers in Mutual or Sunday School when she was still fifteen, is there anything you might have done to help change the course of Nancy's maturing years? Should the parents have called this situation to the attention of the home teachers? What responsibility could Nancy's peer group in her ward have assumed in helping her? HELPING CHILDREN TO BECOME MORAL ADULTS In the hazardous path from childhood to adulthood, there is a critical transition which all must achieve—the development of a mature faith and the internalization of gospel ideals. Sociologists 714 would refer to the latter in a more inclusive manner as the internalization of values. On its simplest level, the question is, "Shall I be good because my parents and others won't like me if ''m bad, or shall I be good because I am personally convinced that good behavior is right?" One cannot make effectively this transition from being primarily "other-directed" to being "self-directed" without questioning what adults say about the nature and purpose of this life, as well as the reasonableness and righteousness of specific rules for living. For some, this questioning process is essentially a mental exercise, but for others it may include behavioral experimentation. While young people vary in the nature and extent of their questioning behavior, perhaps the most crucial variable is in the adult response to their questioning and experimentation. Questions for Discussion 1. Why do most parents find it difficult to relinquish controls? Why do some hold on so tightly that they overcontrol? A few of the ideas which might be discussed include fear that the child will fail, fear of parents in their parental role, parents' fear of child's questioning or rebellious behavior that may reactivate old conflicts within parents which may not have been resolved. 2. Why would Nancy's parents engage in screaming arguments with her? This might have been an indication of the intense degree to which they felt threatened with regard to the points mentioned above. It might also have revealed another kind of threat, viz. Loss of parental authority. When a little bit is taken away forcefully, the parent tends to feel that he is losing everything. This intense reaction might also be related to an adult's own discomfort with authority—and that held by others. Such cases suggest that the adult himself has not resolved the potential conflict between authority and free agency. 3. What does it do to children's feelings when we compare their performance with that of a brother or a sister? How does it make a wife feel when her husband compares her cooking and housekeeping, or care of children with his own mother's performance? 4. Why do some parents, on the other hand, release controls too rapidly? What may be the result of this? A child's vulnerability to the hazards of immoral behavior is associated with three major factors which exert a powerful influence on his social and moral functioning. These factors are (1) knowledge, (2) attitudes, and (3) exposure to the hazards. THE IMPORTANCE OF KNOWLEDGE It seems reasonable to assume that knowledge and its proper use will help the child put the hazards he faces in a_ better perspective. The growing child is exposed to a great many formal learning opportunities at school and in Church. Learning facts is an important first step, but children frequently need help in applying these facts to their own lives. Parents can help children to make the vital connections in ways that other teachers can seldom approximate. As parents, one of our most valuable opportunities for the transmission of vital knowledge and helping our children gain a balanced perspective in applying knowledge to their own lives is the family home evening. This process of making knowlLesson Department edge become useful in behavioral terms is the linking of knowledge and values. Values which are unrelated to a sound knowledge base may be needlessly repressive and difficult for parents to defend, unless they are rooted in faith and are at least compatible with existing knowledge. On the other hand, knowledge which has not been linked with values may become associated with either useless, irresponsible, or damaging behavior. It appears that there is a very close relationship among knowledge, values, and perspective. Question for Discussion Can you think of examples where knowledge alone has not moved one to behavior which avoids hazards? It might be said that knowledge is associated with the processes of reason. Values may be rooted in experience and faith as well as in knowledge. Values give direction to the use of knowledge. Perspective grows out of knowledge, existing values, and, most importantly, faith in the revealed word of God. THE DEVELOPMENT OF WHOLESOME ATTITUDES Perhaps the most fundamental and far-reaching attitude has to do with attitudes toward oneself. Those who have been intimately acquainted with the problems of others know that feelings of worthlessness are associated with worthless behavior. By "worthless" behavior we mean _ that behavior that is non-productive and which may be destructive in a moral sense. The development of self-esteem is one of the most basic requisites to other aspects 76 September 1970 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _..55 Zone5 _~_---75 Zone3 -~_-.---.60 Zone6 __--=-.85 Zone4 _-~---.65 Zone7 _~_.--.95 Zone8..~-- - 1.05 a DESERET [RPEws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 CANDLES DIRECT FROM OUR FACTORY 12 COLORS — 12 SCENTS FOR STORAGE, BANQUETS, ETC. Send $4.00* for Prepaid 4-candle sample order. Includes one each 3" x 3', 3" x 6", and 3" x88", plus famous twin-wick, 100 hour, canned storage or camping candle. Request price list. CANDLE KITCHEN, 2335 So. W. Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 487-3297 *Add 18¢ Sales Tax in Utah. 716 of self-development, as well as being the first line of defense against "worthless' behavior. One's self-concept is built, in large measure, upon reactions of other people toward us. If they see us as essentially good and worthwhile, then we feel essentially good and worthwhile. Some parents tend to feel that their most important contributions to their children's development have to do with their health and correcting their inappropriate and naughty behavior. Actually, we know that the most important moments we spend with our children are those moments when we tell them of our love for them and freely demonstrate our affection. Children may also learn to know that we care about them through our approach to discipline. Part of the love message comes from the very fact that we care about their behavior. This caring will not be apparent to the child, however, if it takes the form of deprecating the child or attacking his personality. The parents' attention should be focused on the bad behavior, giving reasons why it is bad, and explaining what that behavior means to other people. It is sometimes necessary for parents to reprove their children sharply. What the Lord has told us about exercising the power of the priesthood also applies to the application of parental authority. (See D&C 121: 41-46.) The self-esteem of a child may be profoundly influenced by the way parents refer to him or describe him to others. Jimmy was taller than most boys his age and always felt embarrassed and depreciated when his father \ Clenezet SN MUSIC COMPANY ''Singing Mothers'' 'Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Instruments 2 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US HAWAII ALOHA TOUR October 8-21] *K ROSE PARADE TOUR VIA SAN FRANCISCO VIA SAN DIEGO Dec. 26—Jan 2 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Lesson Department said to friends, "Come on in, I want you to meet "Tiny.'"' To this day, Jimmy has a difficult time standing up straight. On the other hand, Jimmy felt a glow -: of pride when he overheard his dad say to others, "Jim certainly knows how to handle his money." Such remarks reinforced the good behavior as well as building Jim's self-esteem. Class Discussion Can adults show their disapproval of specific behavior without communicating disapproval of the child? Class members might share examples of their experiences with others that caused them to feel either good or bad about themselves. Another kind of attitude that is important to the building of a moral life is one's attitude concerning the future. If the attitude is predominantly one of gloom and pessimism, then one may feel that he has less reason to engage in constructive experiences and to build strong traits of character. When one listens to some of the arguments supporting the use and abuse of drugs, a common theme has to do with inequality and injustice and inhuman behavior. On the basis of such observations, some persons then refer to themselves and others as alienated from the mainstream of society. They feel that they no longer belong, and even set up their own patterns for living. These actions seem to bring about a growing spirit of revolution. This spirit of revolution takes many forms, running the gamut from a revolution in morals to political révolution. On close inspection, one can detect the absence of true faith in God, 717 September 1970 as well as loss of faith in the ability of the normal social processes to correct injustice and to call forth moral behavior in people. EXPOSURE TO HAZARDS Exposure to hazards is both predictable and unavoidable. The degree of exposure can, to some degree, be limited and controlled by parents in accordance with a child's age and his experience. Parents should keep in mind, however, that the most effective and, ultimately, the only controls on exposure will come from within the individual. At an early age, parental controls should therefore be pointed toward the transfer of responsibility for control to the growing child. In this connection it is important for the individual to realize that unlimited exposure to any negative influence is hazardous, regardless of one's good judgment and wholesome orientation. SUMMARY This lesson recognizes the importance of early and consistent training of a child so that the CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family. No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. Maturing child may gain a wholesome attitude toward himself, his associates, and the Church. Each child will face hazards during his maturing years. His ability to cope with these hazards depends, in a very large measure, on what he _ thinks others think of him. Every person in the child's life plays a part in the self-image the child develops. Adults should be aware of the need each child has for acceptance and success in some facet of his life. Parents, aunts, grandmothers, neighbors, teachers, and ward members can find ways in which to express love and interest in the child who is being left out of the mainstream of activities. Satan has the powerful tool of discouragement to help him destroy the self-image of the unaccepted child. Also, it is necessary for parents to transfer the responsibility of a child's actions to the child and internalize his values. Where love and attention have been given sincerely and freely, and where wise guidance has been used, the child usually can overcome the hazards and become a moral person. YOUR SUN IS YONDER Farewell, you robins... You larks... You bluebirds! Your sun is yonder, in far southern sky. Our sun is here.... We will wait your returning— The magpies... The starlings... The sparrows. And |. 718 —Alda Larson Brown Song for a Lifetime Wilma Morely Despain m@ My father could sing, even when he was tired; and after his mind and body did not give him much to sing about, he could still sing the songs of his youth and the Latter-day Saint hymns he learned early in life. He loved our hymns and counseled us children often, helping us to memorize them while our minds were alert, and while we could retain them for later use and enjoyment. I can still hear him singing while he followed the plow pulled by his prize teams of well-trained horses. He sang his way down the long rows of corn, whether pushing the water through the thirsty rows or dusting them for pirate insects and worms. I have heard him sing when I knew his heart was breaking, after the death of our beloved mother, as he mixed bread at night, as he arose to mix it down so he could bake it, before leaving for work the next morning. I marvel now, that he could sing while caring for six lonely, heartbroken children. After reaching the age of more than eighty years, he did not always know me when I came to see him, nor could he remember what he had eaten for lunch that day, but he could sing the words to nearly every hymn or song he heard played, and all who heard him were amazed. "This ts like a miracle!" Sy - People with limited vision can enjoy a new life with this self-lighted ''seeing aid.'' Standard (3 diopter) model provides brilliantly lighted field of vision covering a full Reader's Digest-size page. Eleven models, including stronger lenses, available. Call or write Magni-Vision, to arrange a demonstration. _—~4 MAGNI-VISION i _A 685 "G'" STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84103 TELEPHONE (801) 359-5378 fotal electric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 719 100 98 o7 96 95 94 93 720 92 Mrs. Olena Hansen Carison Mrs. Matilda Sandberg Andrus Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Alice Paxman McCune Nephi, Utah Mrs. Minna Mandelkow Kirchoff Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Clara Munk Anderson Manti, Utah Mrs. Laura Christensen Watkins Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Wilcox Hovey Cardston, Alberta, Canada Miss Jennie Thackeray Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ellen Brown Berrett North Ogden, Utah Mrs. Zina Nielson Cook Provo, Utah Mrs. Martha Annice Hayward American Fork, Utah Mrs. Ora Mae Kelso Kennewick, Washington Mrs. Euphemia McGreger M. Morgan Sandy, Utah Mrs. Mary Price Willey Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha Lundy Fields Mozingo Goldsboro, North Carolina Mrs. Edith Olesen Schmidt Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Harriet Bird Axelson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Bertha Emanuelsen Bergsjo Logan, Utah Mrs. Martha Ann Henline Glasscock Azusa, California Mrs. Helen Cecelia Sorensen Graham Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Etta Langstaff Miller Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Minnie Belle Young Perry Logan, Utah Miss Jane Price Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nettie Reeder Thatcher Logan, Utah 91 90 Manti, Utah Mrs. Nettie Elizabeth Thatcher Logan, Utah Mrs. Lettie R. Sessions Call Rigby, Idaho Mrs. Emma Buetehorn Hahl Edison, New Jersey Mrs. Emma Peay Jacobson Provo, Utah Mrs. Ada Frances Bryson Jardine Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Phoebe Davis Meyerhoffer Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Viola Smith Petker Arroyo Grande, California Mrs. Martha Abigail Stevens Probst Rupert, Idaho Mrs. Lucy Selina Andrews Ryan Mt. Eden, Auckland, New Zealand Mrs. Mary Hettie White Scott Thompkinsville, Kentucky Mrs. Mary Emeline Barker Ward North Ogden, Utah Mrs. Camilla Rasmussen Bassett Afton, Wyoming; Mrs. Ethel Agusta Strange Bradfield Logan, Utah Mrs. Huldah Amelia Larson Evans Logan, Utah Mrs. Chrissie Jensen Fox Castro Valley, California Mrs. Laura Fitzgerald Gardner West Jordan, Utah Mrs. Jane McNiel Goodsell Logan, Utah Mrs. Alice Eliza Shomaker Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Fannie Winifred Drury Mullin Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Luella Nielsen Peterson Tooele, Utah Mrs. Coral Schliotmann Rawhouser Marysville, Washington Mrs. Myra Irene Sanders Rogers Mesa, Arizona Cultural Refinement Lessons KIT The kit contains 4 full color reprints of paintings by famous masters. These are excellent visual aids tyingin with the 1970-71 lessons. BOOKS Out of the Best Books all five volumes in new paperback versions Same size as the hardbound editions. The cultural refinement lessons for the 1970-71 year will be based on selections from all five volumes. These books, anthologies of the world's greatest literature, will provide hours of satisfying enjoyment. Save $1.25 order all five paperbound volumes as a set, just $10.50. Individually, volume 1 is $2.75, volumes 2, 3, 4, and 5 are $2.25 each. NOW! Cultural Refinement Kit and Book Just $2.00 {. ' 4 ip t a j Salt Lake — Cottonwood Mall Valley Fair Mall Orange, California ORDER FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 OR 777 So. Main, Town & Country, Orange, Calif. 92668 a WotalapGWNGs. This must include 25c handling and postage for the first book ordered and 15c for each additional book ordered in the same shipment. Also include 444% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax from California residents ordering from Orange. Paid by: OC check, ( money order, or O charged established account. Please send me items circled: 1 Sept. 1970 R. S. >= 

