
December, Vol. 57, Number 12
A NIGHT FOR PRAISE This night is one for keeping faith with stars And with all steepled hopes that rise Skyward and far as lifting dream can rise. It is a time of gratitude for earth— The remnant wedge of wings that circles low Above the drift of leaves, surrendering to frost, The root that waits with patience under snow— A night to shelter tenderly the peace From secret altars where the sacrificial fires Of our repentance burn. Unleash the tethered love And name as blest the subtle verities of grief That temper winds and school the heart to wear The face of sorrow with triumphant grace. A night to glean the heirloom sheaves of time, Relive the parable, retrieve the singing harp. Without this manna for our hungering, Without the cross, compassion of his word, Earth would be lost to all eternal purpose. Speak grateful words that he of manger birth Would leave celestial glories for our sake— To meet accusing stone, the final blade. This Christmas night sing joy in reverent phrase— It is a night for kneeling—and for praise. —Alberta H. Christensen The Cover: | Virgin and Child With Joseph From a Painting by Andrea del Sarto Transparency by Free Lance Photographers Guild Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: § 'The Root That Waits With Patience Under Snow'' Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: § Dick Scopes Illustrations: | Mary Scopes 881 

The Relief Society Magazine Volume 57 December 1970 Number 12 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 883 Mothers in Israel Joseph Fielding Smith 888 Birthday Greetings to Jessie Evans Smith Fiction 890 The Family Who Lost Christmas Margery Thompson Pierson 898 The Widow's Might Elaine S. McKay General Features 895 Editorial—Facing Forward Marianne C. Sharp 896 Notice to Subscribers $60 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 889 Reminiscing Doris B. Cox 889 Silent Music Judy Shell Busk 896 On Clear Vision Janell R. Arrington 897 Hobby Feature—Mary Redington and Vivian Glenn 913 Stained Glass Window in the Bonneville Ward Chapel 914 Christmas—A Season for Creative Beauty 916 Beauty and Warmth—Inside and Out 918 Trees of Reflection and Grace 920 Flowers, Fruits, and Greenery 922 Blending Colors for Christmas Cheer 923 Mary and Joseph and the Child 924 Relief Society Booth at the Open House, Utah State Fair 926 Homemaking Display at Relief Society Annual General Conference 927 Visiting Teaching in Alaska 928 Christmas Fun With Felt and Food Edythe K. Watson 930 A Little Bit of Life June B. Jensen Lesson Department 901 Spiritual Living—Lesson 7—The Atonement of Jesus Christ 907 Spiritual Living—Lesson 8—The Lord's Work and His Glory 932 Visiting Teacher Messages—Message 7—Responsibility 933 Visiting Teacher Messages—Message 8—Respect for Those Who Are Different 935 Homemaking—Discussion 7—''Thy Speech Betrayeth Thee" 937 Homemaking—Discussion 8—Making Your Family Proud of You 938 Social Relations—Lesson 7—Self-Control and Discipline 942 Social Ralations—Lesson 8—That We Might Have Joy 947 Cultural Refinement—Lesson 6—An Affirmation of Spiritual Values 951 Cultural Refinement—Lesson 7—Ideal Family Relationships 957 Cultural Refinement Lesson 8—for Southern Hemisphere Poetry 881 A Night for Praise, Alberta H. Christensen; 887 Pointing Spires, Pearle M. Olsen; 893 If | Should Call Them Now, Peggy Tangren; 896 Just So... Dorothy J. Roberts; 900 The Ending Song, Evelyn H. Hughes; 930 For His Tomorrows, Wilma Morley Despain; 934 Splendor in the West, Catherine B. Bowles; 957 Discourse on Leaves, Grayce E. Cutler. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.©1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription price 25¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. The Magazine discontinues publication with this issue. 882 Mothers In Israe] President Joseph Fielding Smith My dear Sisters or 128 years, and has INStilled I am stateful for this Pporint the heart f co tless of Unity to Participate In your ~ OUr good Sisters those desires for ference You are Members o the Ighteousnese Which have been Ereatest women's Organizatj Pleasing to the Lord. IN the world, an Organization May I NOw say a few Words to Which igs 2 Vital part of the king. YOu about your high Position °m of God On earth and which and destiny as, "Mothers in Is IS so designed and op Yated that rael." Some f you may have re. It helps its faithfy] Members Celved Patriarcha} b €ssings jn &ain etern! Life jn Our Fathey' Which yoy Were told in Substance Ingdom "As a Mother in Israe] Shalt tho I bring YOu the love and the and," any event, his Promblessings of the Irst Preside Ise jis the assured Inheritance of the Chu » and ©xpress their all the faithfy] Sisters Of the commendation and 4Ppreciation Chu ch, of all thoge Who love to Sister Belle S Spafford to her 4nd serve the Lord With al] their very able c nselors, to the mem. POWer and h keep the combers of th enera] Board, nd to ndments Which he has £iven all of You other Relief Society 4 mother jn Israe] in leaders the ful] 80spel sense Is the Ighest The lief Societ WaS estabreward tha Can come Into the lished by the Spirit of Nspiration, life woman. This designation S bee Suided hat Splrit has deep and Signifi December 1970 ing, one that is far more than marrying and bearing children in this life, great and important as that course is. In fact, in the full and true sense of the word, the blessing of being mothers in Israel shall come in due course to some who, through no fault of their own, are denied the opportunity to marry and to bear children in this life. For us to envision what is meant by being mothers in Israel, we must have in mind our own position as the spirit children of God the Eternal Father. We must remember that he is a personal being in whose image man is created, and that he has a body of flesh and bones which is as tangible as man's. We must remember that we were born as his spirit offspring in the premortal life and that we dwelt with him in the family unit before the foundations of this earth were laid. Ordinarily we speak freely of our Father in Heaven, but have little to say about our Mother in Heaven. There is, of course, no such thing as a father without a mother, or of children without parents, and we do have some official and authoritative statements about this doctrine, one of which was made by my father, President Joseph F. Smith and his counselors, John R. Winder and Anthon H. Lund, back in 1909. Speaking of pre-existence and the origin of man, the First Presidency in that day said plainly that "man, as a spirit, was begotten and born of heavenly parents, and reared to maturity in the eternal mansions of the Father," that man is the "offspring of celestial parentage," 884 and that "all men and women are in the similitude of the universal Father and Mother, and are literally the sons and daughters of Deity." Eliza R. Snow—who kept the minutes of some of the first Rehef Society meetings held in the Church, and who served as general president from 1866 to 1887— recorded in her great hymn, "O My Father," this glorious truth of celestial parentage, including a Father and a Mother in Heaven. These are her words: In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there. When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, Mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high? Then at length, when I've completed All you sent me forth to do, With your mutual approbation Let me come and dwell with you. Now, the plan of salvation and exaltation which we know as the gospel of Jesus Christ was given to us by the Eternal Father so that we might create for ourselves eternal family units which are patterned after his family. And in his family, while yet in pre-existence, many of the faithful and devoted spirit children were set apart and chosen to come to earth through the lineage of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. This means that the house of Israel was foreknown as a distinct group in the pre-mortal life, which is what enabled Moses to call attention to the day, "When the Most High divided to the nations their inheritance, when he separated the sons of Adam, he set the bounds Of the according t¢ O the children of Israel]. " € are al] also Mean havin aWare that the j; Lord told Abraham h g dren InN the resurrection I act, the he Would be anguage used by th Prophet a father of Many Nations anq °Seph Smith In tea hing this that his Seed wo Id be like th doctrine Ww Stars of heave nd as the Sand which ls Parents of offsprin g." a Triage that Abra 4nd Sarah gai Nant, and Is then true and faithfy] to Promises Made all of ¢ e€ terms "Abrah of that Covenant, the Concernin hi Will be h Sband and Wife forever. Then « SO long as the ©, to their N and glory in all things as hath e > his see Pon their to count € sand Pon the se Shore ye he see 8S," this Could not number them," revelation the Speaks of a "CconThen, ha December 1970 faithful descendants of Abraham, to those of us who are of the house of Israel and who have joined the Church, the revelation continues: "This promise is yours also, because ye are of Abraham, and the promise was made unto Abraham; and by this law is the continuation of the works of my Father, wherein he glorifieth himself. Go ye, therefore, and do the works of Abraham; enter ye into my law and ye shall be saved." We are the seed of Abraham: we are the ones who have right to the blessings of the priesthood, and to the "blessings of the Gospel, which are the blessings of salvation, even of life eternal." If we are faithful and true, it shall be our privilege to go on forever in the patriarchal order, inheriting in due course all of the blessings of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Now I think we should remind ourselves that this life is the time to prepare to meet God, that we are here to be tried and tested to see if we shall qualify to gain the blessings of Abraham and Sarah. This mortal life is itself a schooling, probationary estate. But so also is our life in the family unit. The gospel is family centered; it must be lived in the family. It is here we receive our greatest and most important training as we seek to create for ourselves eternal family units patterned after the family of God our Father. We are in training in our mortal families to operate eternal families in a state of glorious exaltation, where "neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord." 886 Of necessity there are many practical things we must do to be mothers and fathers in Israel and so to live as to gain eternal life. | We must choose to marry right; to have our union sealed in the temple; to enter into eternal marriage covenants. é _ We must choose to have children if we can; to provide bodies, in the household of faith, for the hosts of unborn spirit children of our Father who are yet destined to come to this earth. We must bring up our children in light and in truth, setting for them an example of righteous living, and also teaching them the truths of the gospel. We must see that they are baptized and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost when eight years of age. We must shelter them from the sins and evils of the world as much as we can so they will not be led away from paths of truth and righteousness. We must prepare them to be living witnesses of the truth and divinity of this great latter-day work, and particularly in the case of our sons, see that they are worthy and qualified to go on missions to preach the gospel to our Father's other children. We must—and this above all— so guide and lead them that they will choose proper companions and marry in the house of the Lord and thus become inheritors of all the great blessings of which we have been talking. Now I testify that we are engaged in the Lord's work. This Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is the kingdom of God on earth. In it is found the plan of salvation, and through it we can inherit the blessings of Abraham and all the prophets. I testify also that Joseph Smith was the mighty Prophet of the restoration and that if we shall walk in the course revealed Mothers In Israel through him, we shall have peace in this life and gain eternal life in the world to come, which is my prayer for all of us. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. POINTING SPIRES Symbols of a humble faith; tapered spires Point above the lacy trees in a way To hold my eyes, and warm my heart with fires Of hope that make me want to kneel and pray. | have seen them shine above a loose cloud Rolling in like fog rising from the sod Where people live and toil, speaking aloud Their gratitude while worshipping their God. Firm pointing fills an elemental need Impelling me to lift my voice in praise. Without these symbols others may mislead Me as | grope in darkness for the ways To find a special place with doors ajar Where newer light awaits. There spires are. —Pearle M. Olsen 887 Birthday Congratulations to Jessie Evans Smith The General Board of Relief Society and sisters throughout the world wish Sister Jessie Evans Smith a happy birthday on December 29. Sister Smith, wife of our beloved prophet, has long been admired and appreciated by Relief Society sisters. Leaving a successful career with the American Light Opera Company to return to her native Salt Lake City, Sister Smith did not stop singing. For many years she has been with the Tabernacle Choir, and during that time she sang for benefits, countless Church programs, and, almost daily, for funerals. Sister Smith has often accompanied President Smith on his assignments throughout the Church, and has been called upon to bear her testimony. Following this, she would sing, frequently in duet with President Smith. By way of a message to the sisters 888 ae i, » of Relief Society, Sister Smith gives the following bit of advice: "If we follow the ways of the Lord our pathways will lead us to doing the right thing. The apostle Paul said to the Corinthians in Chapter 3, 'Ye are God's building; therefore, let every man take heed how he buildeth.' One of the greatest responsibilities that is ever entrusted to any human being is that of building his own personality. The chief business of our lives is to build a house that will bear the weight of eternal life. God has entrusted us to use only the finest materials. We should develop the ability to do the right thing instead of allowing ourselves endlessly to do as we please." May her birthday be one of joyful association with her loved ones, and the coming year be filled with blessings and contentment. ne innovat triangle, the kno k Cater-ty m Ock, the Shrill 9 pe instrument. With new of Sound. 889 HE FAMILY WHO LOST CHRISTMAS Margery Thompson Pierson @ They had lost Christmas! Mrs. Day was not sure just where or how they had lost it, whether it had slowly slipped away, or whether it had gone all at once— how she did not know. But this she knew—her family had lost Christmas! When the thought finally sank into her very busy mind it frightened her. To lose Christmas? She must find some way of getting it back and quickly. Mrs. Day thought back over the last few weeks before Christmas, trying to figure out what had happened. There had been many bad days, with so much to do that there seemed to be so little time to get it all done. She had had shopping to do, and wrapping, andmailing, and writing Christmas cards, and decorating the house, and decorating the tree, and the baking, and the regular lessons to prepare, and the rehearsing for the Christmas program, and the costumes to make, and the helping for the ward party, and on and on and on I suppose I just got tired and cross, she thought, all I seem to be able to think about is how much I have to do! That certainly is one way to lose Christmas, and the children have been so cross and quarrelsome. There were four children: Danny four, Lauri six, Don nine, and Lois eleven. Mrs. Day tried to think, tried to remember what might have caused some of the things that had 890 gone wrong with the children the last little while. The two older children: had quarreled just that morning over the use of the bathroom mirror. They had yelled and been unkind. "Mommy, make Don get out of there right away. He's_ just standing in front of the mirror like a rooster strutting to see how gorgeous he is, and if I'm ever going to put this holly in my hair for the program today, I've got to have the big mirror now!" "IT don't know why she's so upset! All the time she spends at the mirror is wasted anyway," Don said. After Lois had obtained the mirror and placed the holly in her hair she had suddenly remembered something. "Oh, Mother, I have to get a gift for Margo for our Merrihand class party next Wednesday. I surely do wish I hadn't drawn her name. She's so different. She just doesn't fit in with the rest of the girls. Why did I ever have to pick her?" My, what a Christmas spirit her daughter had shown! And the younger children were no better! Only yesterday afternoon they had come screaming into the kitchen, "Mommy, Mommy, Laurie has my truck!" "Oh, Mommy, he's such a baby! He won't share anything. Do you know what, big baby, Danny! Because you don't know how to share, Santa Claus isn't going to come to you, so there!"' Danny had started crying and had sobbed, "Mommy, he will too, won't he?" Nine-year-old Don had entered the kitchen and said, "Oh, stop crying, half-pint. Of course Santa Claus will come. It wouldn't be Christmas without Santa Claus, so go build with your blocks!" "Mom, could you lend me five dollars? I've got to finish my Christmas shopping and after I get that football for myself, I won't have enough money for the rest of the gifts on my list." Mrs. Day sighed. "We are all sO wrapped up in ourselves and things that we really have lost the true Christmas. We have such precious little time left to find it. But we must! We must!" Now, how shall I begin? I must find Christmas myself if I am to lead the others. She went into the bedroom and began reading— first the scriptures, Luke and Matthew, and then from other books. In her reading she found heaven brought down to earth for a moment each year, she thought to herself. Oh, my! How far away we have gone. We must find Christmas! And she muttered a silent prayer. "Dear Father, please help me to help my loved ones find Christmas again, its true joy and its true meaning." She called her husband at work and he managed to get home a little earlier than usual, and they had a long talk. That evening after the dessert dishes were cleared away Father called a family council and the family began to talk about the way things were going at their house—and how they had lost the whole meaning of Christmas. Mr. Day said, "You know in our house there is no room in the inn." Donasked, "What do you mean, Dad?" 891 December 1970 "We have come so far from Christmas and love and good will that we have no room in our hearts for the spirit of Christmas to enter, just as the innkeeper had no room for the soon to be born Jesus. Think about that." Little Laurie began to cry. "Oh, I feel so awful! I'm so sorry! I haven't felt at all happy or good about Christmas. How can I find it?" Dad said, "'Let's see if we can think of some things we can do. We are seeing Christmas all around us, we are hearing Christmas all around us, and when Mother bakes and cooks all those goodies we are certainly smelling and tasting Christmas all around us, but we are not feeling Christmas. That's what we've lost, the feeling of Christmas!" Danny said, "Yesterday Laurie said Santa wouldn't come. Will he?" "TI imagine so," said Mother, "but, Danny, do you know it would still be Christmas even if Santa Calus didn't come to you?" "It would?" "Yes, it would. Santa Claus is a wonderful visitor who makes little children happy—but Christmas would still be Christmas with no visit from Santa Claus. You could still feel Christmas in your heart." "T could? How?" "By doing yourself what Santa Claus does—giving to others— thinking of others—and making others happy." "It would be hard, Mother." "T know, dear, but no one is saying you shouldn't have Santa Claus visit. All we're saying is that you should think about other 892 things, too, at Christmas. It is sometimes hard for little ones, but some of the people who have really found Christmas—who come closer than anyone else to the true spirit of Christmas— are little children who really try." Laurie said, "Christmas is really a baby's day anyway." Dad asked, "What do you mean, Laurie?" Laurie answered, "It is the birthday of baby Jesus." Don said, "Mom, Dad, I've been thinking about what you've said and I guess I've really been selfish. I've thought only about me and what people were going to give to me and what I wanted to get. I was having a 'give-me' Christmas. Is that what you meant?" "Yes, Don," answered Dad, "and I'm glad you've begun to see where you had begun to lose the real feeling of Christmas. "Well, what about me?" asked Lois, "I think I've been all right!" Mother asked, "Lois, do you remember your feeling about drawing Margo's name for a gift for Primary?" "Well, I wanted to give a present to one of my better friends." "Think about that for a minute, Lois. How would you feel if you were Margo, not being one of the group—feeling that the others didn't include you or really like you, how would you feel?" "Well, I guess not so good—but it was only a little present!" "No, it isn't, Lois! It isn't just a little present. It's your feeling. And it's all wrong! Why do we give gifts at Christmas, anyway?" Don said, "I know. Because the Wise Men gave gifts to Jesus." "Well, partly," said Dad, "but we give gifts because Heavenly Father gave his Son as a gift to all of us because he loves us and we give gifts to others because we love them. If there is no love given with the gift then why give the gift at all?" Mother said, "Anyway, why bake cookies or send cards or do anything just to do it? If no love is given with the gift then it is an empty gift." "Mom," Lois added, "if I am nicer to Margo and try to get to know her better and try to make her a part of the group, will I be getting closer to what you would like me to be?" "Yes, dear. If you'll just try to overcome these feelings of meanness and unkindness and selfishness, then you'll be growing closer to Heavenly Father and the Christmas spirit. If we all truly tried to put ourselves in tune with The Family Who Lost Christmas the spirit of Christmas by being thoughtful and kind and full of love for others we might begin to see what Christmas is all about. When all men try to be their best we all begin to have a feeling of oneness. When all men are beginning to think about doing good things together heaven can come down for a moment each year. But we must do our part to cause earth to be brought up a little closer to heaven. If each one of us would do his part to make earth more heavenly—to have peace in our hearts—and good will toward our fellow men, maybe this Christmas feeling could spread from a family, to a neighborhood, and further still." Then she added, "You can only find Christmas and keep Christmas in your own heart. Let's make this a doing Christmas! Let's try to find our lost Christmas by doing better and by being better." ae IF | SHOULD CALL THEM NOW The little ones, The timid ones, The gentle ones, Bright of eye and wary, Darting, gathering, hoarding Beneath root and rock, on limb, in hollow tree; Answering my call, ''hiya—hiya,'' The squirrels and chipmunks came From cone-tipped spruce and pine, Leaping logs and stones To my reaching hands, My feeding hands, My stroking hands. If | should call them now they could not come. Deep, deep'in trance-like sleep In chambered tree, in burrowed earth, They cannot banish winter from the woods, Nor hear the murmur in my loneliness. They wait the joyful ''hiya'' of the spring. I, too, am waiting—and remembering. —Peggy Tangren 893 € war efforts Of the racing year b Ppenings, and the Opini We read of Y year Major and Minor OSe living down the years. Irst Pre idencj ] ] » Of new Relief S Relief ASSOCiate ir beloved R Worked UNSelfish| 'for its the Subscrj tio Editors, a elief Societ SUCCess Which j; - Cannon "Manwaring Lila B. Walch ary R. Young Lenore Cc. Anny S. Kienitz i 895 On Clear Vision Janell R. Arrington of yesterday's activities. J quickly reached for warm water and a d the offending film. There! That WaS a real improvement—to See things clearly and truly in the light of this new day. I must surely assist my family members to shine Joyfully accomplished if we do not first view it with dark, discouraged attitudes. It Magazine. Address: Relief Society Business Office, 76 North Main Stre City, Utah 84111. JUST SO Just so, he Stacked the whisper and the rustle Of the Parchment corn, Heaping hubbard, and banana and the Pumpkin at its side. And so, the blue mountain wore its Thin turban of snow And the sky was A turmoil of departing glory. All remain, repeating the eternals Of the ending year. Now to other hands Their yield to another hoe. —Dorothy J. Roberts 896 ee ern We Ce nner tare 8 lon a eS RARE ae aOR oe Yoo se Ranney Bo Sisters Vivian Glenn and Mary Redington are talented members of the Alameda Stake. Sister Glenn lives in the Thirteenth Ward and Sister Redington in the Seventeenth. Both sisters are loved and admired by those who know them. Sister Glenn enjoys making fascinating and entertaining articles for children and adults. She has made over 300 pixie dolls for friends, neighbors, and bazaars. Sister Glenn has one son and one grandson.'In Relief Society she has served for many years as a faithful visiting teacher. Sister Redington was converted to the Church six years ago. She enjoys making detailed and exquisite reproductions such as the temple in the picture. Her home and the homes of many friends are filled with decorative works of art she has created. Although she has no children of her own, the neighborhood children are devoted to her and she to them. She has taught in the auxiliaries and in Relief Society has served as a counselor in the presidency and is a visiting teacher. Both of these sisters scatter sunshine into the lives of all who are in contact with them, and they set an example for others to follow in their devotion to Relief Society and to the gospel. D 897 ~* 9 Widow's Might Elaine S. McKay w Bessie watched the wind hurl snow as it howled through Huntsville. It's a cold Christmas Eve, she thought... Colder than those of the Depression... Colder now that her husband was dead. Before the fire had flickered out, Bessie had heated the iron and made her way up the winding stairs of the stone home to iron the sheets before her eight children climbed into their beds. "Warmmm," purred the baby as she snuggled in her crib. Even Bessie's sixteen-year-old son chuckled and sighed as his feet found where the iron had been. The children were noisily unaware that the iron was heated by bits of slack coal from a supply that wouldn't last the winter. Nor had they ever noticed that the smiling woman who pressed the sheets wore patched dresses 898 and was somehow never hungry. The next morning Bessie would build the fire while the four boys went out to feed and milk old Sally, the only animal not sold to pay debts. The little girls would wait in the kitchen until chores were done. Then all would line up — smallest to tallest — and, at the sound of Bessie's first notes on the piano, would march and sing their way in to the tree. "O come all ye faithful, joyful and triumphant." They had cut the tree themselves and trimmed it with paper chains and popcorn. But there was nothing under it, and Bessie had little to put there. She had bought oranges and nuts. That was enough, she knew, to cause shouts of delight. But, as she sat looking out at the half-buried village, the old question returned, "What can I give my children for Christmas?" After a moment, she saw the answer. In the morning when songs were sung and oranges eaten, Bessie said, "Today, because it's Christmas Day, we're going to do something special. We are going to take gifts to a family who are poor." The house grew quiet. Poor was a word they shunned. Then Bessie, her eyes shining, explained that many people in the world had very little and since they themselves had so much it was only right that they share. They could look through their possessions and find a gift —a hair ribbon, a book, some clothes.... "And I'll make apple pies," she beamed. When the pies were cooled, Bessie placed two in a _ basket where the children had _ put their gifts. She covered all with a bright cloth. At last everything was ready. Then above the excited chatter, a boy's voice demanded, "Mother, why are we doing this when we don't have enough for ourselves?" There. Someone had said it. The smiles vanished. Even the baby was silent. "What we have-is enough," Bessie said softly, "and what we are giving is small. We are keeping and sharing the precious things... Our testimonies of the gospel, this great stone house built by your grandfather, our love for each other, happy memories of what has been, hope for good things that are to come "The Widow's Might" All this is ours to keep. These few gifts we have gathered are ours to share. Come, my son, you may carry the basket." Christmas night was cold, and Bessie again ironed the sheets. Amid the clamor of getting ready for bed, she felt a sense of peace and assurance. She could not know that her sons would fill missions and serve their country in foreign lands. She could not visualize the twelve college degrees, the scholarships, trophies, and awards that would accumulate. Nor could she know for sure that each would marry in a temple. She could not foresee the shared planning, pennies, and prayers that would cause it all to happen. And later that evening as she watched the last embers die in the old stove and felt the house grow cold, she little knew that in twenty-seven years she would be named _ Utah's Mother of the Year.* Bessie knew only that she had given her children something for Christmas that they could never lose. Years from now on a cold winter night when they were far from home, they would find it, small and sacred, in their hearts. And there would be other things she could give to them as days and months went by—little things—like warmed sheets. *"Bessie" is Mrs. Elizabeth Peterson McKay of Ogden, Utah —1969 "Mother of the Year." 899 Mile upon cpaite the: Pinch velidaa gold Are laced with scarlet oak. Blue mists obst Mysterious canyon depths, their strange ehes ~ Dark as the shadowed spruce and pine, and ofc: Sis As Greation's dawn. Oh, might | withhold "9 Some meager portion as a forfeiture. J For now a gold leaf spirals. Down and dies,:; Sent. Winterward upon the breath of frost" _ This shattering gold and scarlet residue eeting with-it all lovely things | knew. é * Oh, change! Bring recompense for what is lo8ts _s ' CAS winter' $ snows are welcomed by the wise.. ~ "a Ay ete aa "s December 1970 of salvation was given to Adam, and from the time of Adam to Moses the fulness of that gospel was on the earth. (Lesson 5, Relief Society Magazine, November 1970, pp. 837-43.) We have learned that Adam with all of those born on this earth had a premortal existence and that the plan of salvation was known in that pre-earth life. (Lesson 3, Relief Society Magazine, September 1970, pp. 702- 708.) ADAM AND THE FALL In an earlier lesson it was indicated that the manner in which Adam, the earth, and all living creatures were created has not been revealed, but that in a day of righteousness this information will be revealed by the Lord. (Lesson 4, Relief Society Magazine, October 1970, p. 781.) With faith in and a testimony of the truth, Latter-day Saints stand upon the secure foundation of revelation (Article of Faith 9), of the past and of that which is to come. When created, Adam and Eve were not subject to death. They were beings of flesh and bone, but they were spiritual in that they had no blood in their bodies. Though they were spiritual beings, they could by transgression of the law become mortal and therefore subject to death. They were not truly immortal in the sense of being incapable of dying. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Doctrines of Salvation, comp. Bruce R. McConkie [Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1954], 1:76; Moses 3:9; Lesson 4, Relief Society Magazine, September 1970, pp. 781-87.) 902 It is recorded that Satan knew not the mind of God, but in his seeking to destroy God's work, Satan influenced Eve to eat the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Eve influenced Adam to partake also of this fruit and thus they became mortal. (Moses 3:15-17; 4:6-25.) After this transgression of the law, the following resulted: (1) they were banished from the presence of God and became spiritually dead (2 Ne. 2:5; 9:8-9; Mosiah 16:1-15; Al. 42:6-11); (2) they became subject to temporal or physical death (2 Ne. 9:6-8; Mosiah 16: 4-11; Al. 12:26-27; Hel 14:16-17; Morm. 9:13); (3). They gained knowledge of and_ experience with good and evil; and (4) they obtained the gift of posterity. (2 Ne. 2:23; Moses 5:10-11; Doctrines of Salvation 1:111.) Elder James E. Talmage wrote that the fall of Adam and Eve consisted of their taking into their bodies food unfit for their spiritual natures. As a result of this they became subject to death. (Jesus the Christ [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1958], pp. 29-31.) Class Discussion Evaluate the fall of Adam and Eve in respect to obedience and the plan of salvation. THE NEED OF A REDEEMER In the premortal world, provision was made for Jesus Christ to atone for the fall of man. (Moses 4:1-4; Abr. 3:22-28; Moses 5:57.) Adam and Eve came under the two-fold penalty of their transgression—spiritual death and physical death. (D&C 29: 41; 2 Ne. 9:6.) What would happen if there were no Redeemer? The two penalties would have taken effect forever. Man would have remained in spiritual death, or perpetual banishment from the presence of God, and his body would have remained in the grave throughout all time. But what would this mean? Jacob, the Nephite prophet, has given the answer to this question: If the flesh should rise no more our spirits must become subject to that angel who fell from before the presence of the Eternal God, and became the devil, to rise no more. And our spirits must have become like unto him, and we become devils, angels to a devil, to be shut out from the presence of our God, and to remain with the father of lies, in misery, like unto himself. (2 Ne. 9:8-9.) To permit this condition would have brought total victory to Satan and doomed all of God's children to endless torment. If God were to allow the defeat of his plan for man, he would violate the covenant he made with him premortally. (Titus 1:2.) Because we are descended from Adam and Eve, all who have lived or shall live upon the earth are subject to physical death. And when we sin, we fall spiritually; we become subject to spiritual death. In order for man to be released from the double penalty of physical death and _ banishment from the presence of God, which is spiritual death, reconciliation must be made to satisfy the demands of justice in the breaking of the law. Not only must the transgressions of Adam and Eve be atoned for but also the sins of their posterity. God's plan to provide an earth life for his children amid _ conditions Lesson Department where they might develop was accomplished by the fall of Adam and Eve; man's individual sins, however, are not required to satisfy the general purposes of God. When the atonement was made for man, he was freed of the transgression or sin committed by Adam and Eve. (Moses 6:54; 1 Cor. 15:21-22; Rom. 5:18.) However, men are accountable for their individual acts in opposition to the commandments of God. Man receives a spiritual death when he sins, but through the atonement of Christ, he may be redeemed from his spiritual fall. (D&C 29:41; Al. 12:16, 18, 31-32; Hel. 14:17-18.) Little children are born into the world innocent and are not subject to spiritual death until they sin after the age of accountability. (D&C 93:38; 29: 46-48; 74:7; Moro. 8:19.) Adam and Eve were helpless in redeeming themselves from the consequences of their transgression. So it is with man. Who amongst men can redeem the body from physical death or reunite himself with God by his own acts? None! Thus the need for a Redeemer, one who could break the bands of death and bring about the return of fallen man into God's presence. The Lord allowed Adam and Eve a probationary period in which they could repent. (Al. 42:4-5.) Adam rejoiced when he learned of the possibility of his redemption: And in that day the Holy Ghost fell upon Adam, which beareth record of the Father and the Son, saying: I am the Only Begotten of the Father from the beginning, henceforth and forever, that as thou hast fallen thou mayest be redeemed, and all mankind, even as many as will. And in that day Adam blessed God 903 December 1970 and was filled, and began to prophesy concerning all the families of the earth, saying: Blessed be the name of God, for because of my transgression my eyes are opened, and in this life I shall have joy, and again in the flesh I shall see God. (Moses 5:9-10.) Eve also was glad when she heard these things, and she said: Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient. (Moses 5:11.) SALVATION THROUGH JESUS CHRIST ONLY When the law was broken in the Garden of Eden, the justice of God, or the law of justice, brought the penalty of the broken law. (Al. 42:14.) To appease the demands of the law of justice, the plan of mercy required that an atonement be made by God to compensate for the broken law. And now, the plan of mercy could not be brought about except an atonement should be made; therefore God himself atoneth for the sins of the world, to bring about the plan of mercy, to appease the demands of justice, that God might be a perfect, just God, and a merciful God also. (Al. 42:15.) Alma informs us that the plan of redemption could not take place without a man's repentance; otherwise, mercy could not take effect and it would destroy the work of justice. If the work of justice were destroyed, God would cease to be God because he is perfect in both of these qualities. (Al. 42:13, 15.) Who, then, would redeem man from his fallen condition? Only God could appease the demands of justice and bring about the law of mercy that man might not 904 remain under the penalty of death of the body and also banishment from God's presence forever. (Al. 34:10-11, 14; 2 Ne. 9:7.) Who is God through whom this redemptive act is possible for the inhabitants of this earth? He who created it under the direction of the Father; he who gave the plan of salvation to Adam and to the prophets; he through whom the Eternal Father of our spirits has given revelation since the fall of Adam; he who voluntarily, before the foundations of the earth were laid, offered himself a ransom; he only is capable of such an act. Class Discussion How does the Lord Jesus Christ fulfill the foregoing requirements? Adam was given the following commandment regarding the one and only Being who could atone for man's sins: Wherefore teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must repent, or they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there, or dwell in his presence; for, in the language of Adam, Man of Holiness is his name, and the name of his Only Begotten is the Son of Man, even Jesus Christ, a righteous Judge, who shall come in the mendian of time. (Moses 6:57.) In our own dispensation, the last one, the Savior Jesus Christ has stated that he is the one and only Redeemer. (D&C 19:15-19; 35:1-2; 38:4-5; 45:3-5.) WHY JESUS IS THE ATONER There are three reasons why Jesus Christ is the only Redeemer and Atoner. First, he is the Only Begotten Son of the Eternal Father in the flesh. (Moses 6:57; D&C 76:23.) The following from Elder James E. Talmage gives the meaning of the term "Only Begotten": Mary's promised Son was to be "The Only Begotten" of the Father in the flesh; so it had been both positively and abundantly predicted. True, the event was unprecedented; true also it has never been paralleled; but that the virgin birth would be unique was as truly essential to the fulfillment of prophecy as that it should occur at all. That Child to be bom of Mary was begotten of Elohim, the Eternal Father, not in violation of natural law but in accordance with a higher manifestation thereof; and, the offspring from that association of supreme sanctity, celestial Sireship, and pure though mortal maternity, was of right to be called the "Son of the Highest.'' In His nature would be combined the powers of Godhood with the capacity and possibilities of mortality; and this through the ordinary operation of the fundamental law of heredity, declared of God, demonstrated by science, and admitted by philosophy, that living beings shall propagate—after their kind. The Child Jesus was to inherit the physical, mental, and spiritual traits, tendencies, and powers that characterized His parents—one immortal and glorified—God, the other human—woman. (Talmage, Jesus the Christ, p. 81.) From his mortal mother Jesus inherited the power to die, and from his Eternal Father he received power over death. (John 10:17-18.) By this power he could die only if he willed to die, and also he could reunite his spirit and body as a resurrected, immortal being. Second, Jesus Christ was the only sinless being that ever lived. (1 Pet. 1:19-20; D&C 45:3-4; George Q. Cannon, (Journal of Discourses, 22:239.) Third, by foreordination in the council of heaven, he received the mission to offer the atonement. He was the God of the Old Testament, even from the beginLesson Department ning of man's mortal life on this earth. (John 6:38; 4:34; D&C 19:2; 20:24.) A summary of these facts was made by President John Taylor in these words: He, in the nearness of His relationship to the Father, seems to occupy a position that no other person occupies. He is spoken of as His well beloved Son, as the Only Begotten of the Father— does not this mean the only begotten after the flesh? If He was the first born and obedient to the laws of His Father, did He not inherit the position by right to be the representative of God, the Savior and Redeemer of the world? And was it not His peculiar right and privilege as the firstborn, the legitimate heir of God, the Eternal Father, to step forth, accomplish and carry out the designs of His Heavenly Father pertaining to the redemption, salvation and exaltation of man? And being Himself without sin (which no other mortal was), He took the position of Savior and Redeemer, which by right belonged to Him as the first born. And does it not seem that in having a body specially prepared, and being the offspring of God, both in body and spirit, He stood preeminently in the position of the Son of God, or in the place of God, and was God, and was thus the fit and only personage capable of making an infinite atonement? (Mediation and Atonement [Salt Lake City: Stevens & Wallis, 1950], p. 135.) WHAT THE ATONEMENT IS What is the atonement wrought by Jesus Christ? In the words of Elder James E. Talmage, this answer is given: The structure of the word in its present form is suggestive of the true meaning; it is literally at-one-ment, "denoting reconciliation, or the bringing into agreement of those who have been estranged." And such is the significance of the saving sacnfice of the Redeemer, whereby He expiated the transgression of the fall, through which came death into the world, and provided ready and efficient means for man's attainment of immortality through reconciliation with God. (Articles of Faith 905 December 1970 [Salt Lake City: The~Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1966], p. 75.) The atonement of Christ was accomplished by (1) his taking upon himself the sins of those who would repent, thus removing from them the necessity of suffering for those sins (D&C 19:15-19); (2) by Christ's giving his life in a manner which spilt his blood. This act of atonement was made in the Garden of Gethsemane when the Savior shed drops of blood. (Mosiah 3:7.) Elder Marion G. Romney, of the Council of the Twelve, reminds us_ that other men have endured death by crucifixion,: but no _ other person, or group of men, ever suffered what the Savior suffered in the Garden. (Conference Report, October 1953, p. 35.) The Redeemer made it possible for all men to receive the resurrection. (1 Cor. 15:21-22.) The questions, how does one accept the atonement for his individual salvation, and who are the beneficiaries of this act of mercy, are reserved for the next lesson. Class Discussion How should the knowledge of the atonement and Christ's_ indescribable suffering influence our daily behavior? SUMMARY Latter-day Saints are true followers of Jesus Christ. They are Christians in the fullest sense of the word because they believe in Christ for what he said he was to the prophets of the Old Testament, to the Jewish people during his mortal ministry, to the Nephite people on the American Continent, and, to the Prophet 906 Joseph Smith, in the revelations recorded in the other modern books of scripture. The Master proclaimed himself as the Son of God throughout his mortal ministry. (John 17: 4-5, 8, 24; Matt. 16:16-17.) As President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., said: I hope none of you will go from here.. With the idea that I am saying that the consciousness 'of his divinity was a gradual growth in him. It was not so, according to the record. That doctrine that it was a gradual growth is a doctrine of the "higher critics" who have worked through it to the proposition that the idea of his being a Son of God was invented by his Apostles after his death, and therefore these critics cast doubt upon Jesus himself. Jesus knew from the beginning, at any rate from the time he was twelve, that he was the Christ. ("Jesus the Christ—Creator and Redeemer," BYU Speeches of the Year, May 22, 1956, p. 5.) Latter-day Saints know that Jesus Christ is literally the Son of God, that he was sinless during his earthly life, and that he was the Creator of this earth and the pre-earth appointed Savior. All of these facts they take literally because the modern proof in the scriptures revealed anew attests to these facts. They know that only in and through Jesus Christ may salvation be received, for he is the only Being who could make an atonement for sin. They are grateful that they are beneficiaries of that offering divine. They know that if the atonement of Jesus Christ were not made, they would become devils in misery forever and ever. In the intense, indescribable suffering of the Son of God, Latter-day Saints have learned that if they could give everything they possess as a gift for what Christ has done for them, it would be only a token of the worth of the atonement. Expressed in the language of President John Taylor, they recognize the truth of the following: The suffering of the Son of God was not simply the suffering of personal death; for in assuming the position that He did in making an atonement for the sins of the world He bore the weight, the responsibility, and the burden of the sins of all men, which, to us, is incomprehensible. Groaning beneath this concentrated load, this intense, incomprehensible pressure, this terrible exaction of Divine justice, from which feeble humanity shrank, and through the agony thus exsweating great drops of blood, He was led to exclaim, "Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me." He had wrestled with the superincumbent load in the wilderness, He had struggled against the powers of darkness that had been let loose upon him there; placed below all things, His mind surcharged. With agony and pain, lonely and apparently helpless and forsaken, in his agony the blood oozed from His pores. Thus rejected by His own, attacked by the powers of darkness, and seemingly forsaken by His God, on the cross He bowed beneath the accumulated load, and cried out in anguish, ""My God, why hast thou forsaken me!"' When death approached to relieve Him from His horrible position, a ray of hope appeared Lesson Department through the abyss of darkness with which He had been surrounded, and in a spasm of relief, seeing the bright future beyond, He said, "It is finished! Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit." As a God, He descended below all things, and made Himself subject to man in man's fallen condition; as a man, He grappled with all the circumstances incident to His sufferings in the world. Anointed, indeed, with the oil of gladness above His fellows, He struggled with and overcame the powers of men and devils, of earth and hell combined; and aided by this superior power of Godhead, He vanquished death, hell and the grave, and arose triumphant as the Son of God, the very eternal Father, the Messiah, the Prince of peace, the Redeemer, the Savior of the world; having finished and completed the work pertaining to the atonement, which His Father had given Him to do as the Son of God and the Son of man. As the Son of Man, He endured all that it was possible for flesh and blood to endure; as the Son of God He triumphed over all, and forever ascended to the right hand of God, to further carry out the designs of Jehovah pertaining to the world and to the human family. (Mediation and Atonement, pp. 146-48.) Latter-day Saints are grateful, for they know Jesus to be the "mediator of the new covenant, who wrought out this perfect atonement through the shedding of his own blood." (D&C 76:69.) SPIRITUAL LIVING The Pearl of Great Price 'Lesson 8—The Lord's Work and His Glory Reading assignment: Moses, chapters 1, 5, 6 Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, October 1971 OBJECTIVE: To point out to the Latter-day Saint woman that the Lord offers her the gifts of immortality and eternal life if she lives to be worthy of these gifts. INTRODUCTION The beautiful view of the earth from thousands of miles in space seen by the astronauts in 1969 should impress man with the fact 907 December 1970 that he is living on an island in a sea of space. As he looks into the heavens from his island-earth, he may be moved to exclaim with the Psalmist: O Lord our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! Who hast set thy glory above the heavens. When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou _ hast _ ordained; What is man, that thou art mindful of him? And the son of man, that thou visiteth him? For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour. Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet: O Lord our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! (Ps. 8:1, 3-6, 9.) For those who lack the understanding of the revelations concerning man, there is an everpresent challenge to find a reason for his existence. Man seeks to find the answers to the questions: Who am I? Why am J here? What is the meaning of life? Class Discussion 1. What is the purpose of life? 2. Do you think the world has lost the knowledge of the purpose of life? If so, why? GOD'S REVEALED PURPOSE OF LIFE FOR MAN All of the standard works of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints contribute to the revealed purpose for which the earth, man, and his environment exist. The Pearl of Great Price provides the most concise statement in scripture: "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the im- 908 mortality and eternal life of man." (Moses 1:39. See also Moses 6: 59; D&C 29:43.) Admittedly, the Lord has provided us with other truths which also indicate purpose in life, but the foregoing truth summarizes the intent of God for man. PREMORTALITY Basic to an understanding of the purpose of life is the doctrine of premortality studied in an earlier lesson. (Lesson 3, Relief Society Magazine, September 1970, pp. 702-708.) Briefly, this doctrine, revealed anew in our dispensation, teaches that men and women are the spirit sons and daughters of the Eternal Father. When born as spirit entities, they differed in their talents, gifts, and powers as men and women do today. Those who have been or will be born on this earth elected to follow the plan of salvation presented in the premortal council; those who rebelled against that plan followed Satan and are seeking to destroy the souls of men. (Lesson 6, Relief Society Magazine, November 1970, pp. 843-50.) In this eternal plan, Latter-day Saints recognize that they are in this earth life by design and not by chance, that there is a definite purpose for this earth life, and that that purpose is made known in God's revelations to his prophets. Class Discussion What bearing does the doctrine of premortality have upon the purpose of life? WHY AN EARTH LIFE? The first fundamental fact is that the spirit entity, male or female, was to be added upon with a physical body made of earth elements. Why? A modern revelation states that "the spirit and the body are the soul of man. And the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul." (D&C 88:15-16.) A necessary part of man's progress and a purpose of his creation is that the soul might receive immortality, or the resurrection. (Moses 1:39.) This means that the physical body must be joined with the eternal spirit forever. Our Eternal Father is a resurrected Being of immortal flesh and bone. (Joseph Fielding Smith, comp., Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith [Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1938], pp. 345-46; also D&C 130:22.) WHAT IS ETERNAL LIFE? It is the work and glory of God to bring to pass man's resurrection and also his eternal life. Included in the doctrine of the resurrection is the fact of the everlasting, conscious existence of the spirit and body combined forever. The spirit of man is already eternal. (D&C 93:29; 131: 7-8.) What, then, is eternal life? It is God's life; that is, he who attains unto eternal life, the greatest gift God bestows upon his worthy children, may become as God is. (D&C 19:10-12; 14:7.) This glory is to receive all that the Father hath, to be made equal with Christ, for they have overcome all things. (D&C 132: 22-24; 84:38; 76:58-60.) What is the purpose for which men are on the earth? Briefly Lesson Department expressed, it is that the spirit being may be united with earth elements (body) to insure a resurrected immortal body. Furthermore, those who receive the highest degree of glory—exaltation of eternal life—receive the powers of godhood. Class Discussion Why is it necessary to have a body in order to progress? WHAT MAKES IMMORTALITY AND ETERNAL LIFE POSSIBLE? There are some fundamental, revealed factors which make the resurrection and godhood possible. These are (1) the atonement of Jesus Christ, and (2) the appointed means by which men and women accept that atonement. In last month's lesson it was written that the atonement was made by Jesus Christ because he was literally the Only Begotten Son of the Eternal Father and through the Father he had power over death, even to bringing about his own resurrection. Furthermore, by reason of his inherited power and because he lived a sinless life, he was able to redeem man from his spiritual fall by bringing repentant man back into God's presence. This decision to be man's Redeemer and Savior was made in the premortal council. (Moses 4:1-4.) THE LAW OF SACRIFICE From the days of Adam the Lord revealed the need for man to offer sacrifice to him. After being shut out from the presence of the Lord, Adam and Eve were commanded that they should 909 December 1970 offer the firstlings of their flocks for an offering. Obedient to this commandment they were later asked by an angel why they offered such sacrifices. Adam said that he did not know but the Lord had commanded _ him. (Moses 5:4-6.) Then the purpose for such offerings was revealed by the angel: This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth. Wherefore, thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forevermore. (Moses 5: 7-8.) As President John Taylor wrote, the atonement of Christ fulfilled all of the sacrifices which were offered from the beginning, and the sacrament is now administered in remembrance of the great sacrifice made by Jesus Christ. (John Taylor, Mediation and Atonement [Salt Lake City: Stevens & Wallis, 1950], p. 125.) Why a blood sacrifice? "... Without shedding of blood is no remission." (Heb. 9:22. See also Heb. 9:19-22; Lev, 17:11.) President Joseph Fielding Smith points out that the ancient revealed practice of offering blood sacrifices had two purposes: (1) it pointed to the sacrifice of the Savior, and (2) it became a ""purifying agency which helped to remind Israel of sin and how to overcome [it]." Here also is the crux of the matter as applied to the sacrifice of Jesus Christ: Since it was by the creation of blood that mortality came, it is by the sacrifice of blood that the redemption from death was accomplished, and all creatures freed from Satan's grasp. In no other way could the sacrifice for redemption of the 910 world from death be accomplished. Blood being the agent of mortality, it had to be returned to Satan and to death, whence it came. The Beloved Son of God was chosen before the foundation of the world to redeem mankind. It had to be a redemptiont * by the shedding of blood; also it had fo be by a God, who had power over death, one who could lay down his body by the shedding of his blood, and then take his body up again by the inherent power which was in him. Jesus obtained his blood from his mother Mary; he obtained his power over death from his Father. Therefore he could and did voluntarily surrender himself to his enemies who crucified him by the shedding of his blood. When he arose from the tomb, he was free from blood, and his body had become subject to eternal law henceforth and forever. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Answers to Gospel Questions [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1960], 3:102-103.) The sacrifice of animals was symbolical or "in similitude" of Jesus' sacrifice. (Heb. 9:11-28; 10: 1-31; Rom. 3:21-27; Eph. 1:7; 1 Pet. 1:18-21.) Jesus instructed the Nephites after his resurrection that, with the discontinuance of the law of Moses, the Lord required the sacrifice of a broken heart and a contrite spirit which would lead to an acceptance of the atonement for their individual salvation. (3 Ne. 9:19-22.) IMMORTALITY According to the scriptures all men will be resurrected. (Moses 7:62; I Cor. 15:20-23; John 5:28- 29; Dan. 12:2; D&C 88:28-32.) The resurrection of which the scriptures speak is the literal raising of the body, both limb and joint. (Phil. 3:20-21; Al. 11:43-45; D&C 129:1-2.) The resurrected body will consist of the spirit entity, the flesh and bones, and spirit element. (D&C 88:27; Al. 11:45; Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 7:163 [hereafter referred to as JD.) The revelations speak of the resurrected body as being physically perfect. (Al. 11: 43-44; 40:23; Roy W. Doxey, The Doctrine and Covenants and the Future [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1969], pp. 105-15.) By the resurrection men are redeemed from death and the grave through the atonement of Jesus Christ. (2 Ne. 9:13; Mosiah 16:7-8; Morm. 9:12-13; Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 84.) Thus, a purpose of God for man is accomplished—his immortality. HOW MEN ACCEPT THE ATONEMENT OF JESUS CHRIST Adam was commanded to have faith in the Lord, repent of his sins, be baptized in water in the name of Jesus Christ, and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, which commandments he obeyed. (Moses 6:52, 64-66.) The Lord told Adam that "This is the plan of salvation unto all men, through the blood of mine Only Begotten, who shall come in the meridian of time." (Moses 6:62.) Children who are under the age of eight, the year of accountability, are redeemed by the atonement of Jesus Christ without these saving principles and ordinances of the gospel. (Mosiah 3:16; Moro. 8:20; D&C 29:46-48; 74:7.) Those also who are as little children, the mentally retarded who are incapable of understanding, are also saved by the atonement without obedience to these principles and ordinances. (Moro. 8:22; D&C 29:50.) They who are eight years of age or over and who have understanding are comLesson Department manded to repent that they may be saved. (D&C 68:25-27; 29:49.) FAITH IN JESUS CHRIST Implanted into every heart is the seed of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ that may begin as passive belief, but when nurtured by obedience to commandments, prayer, and involvement in the workings of the Church, passive belief will grow into faith. A good discussion of the distinctions between belief, faith, and knowledge is found in the writings of Elder James E. Talmage. (The Articles of Faith [Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1966], pp. 96- 100; see also Al. 32:28-43.) Essentially, belief does not necessarily * spur one to action, but faith will do this. Knowledge is to know, whereas faith is to hope for things unseen, with the assurance of obtaining them. (Al. 32:18, 21.) To be saved in God's kingdom requires the power to resist sin after having made covenants with the Lord. Faith in Jesus Christ carries the power to resist sin. When tempted, a person of faith remembers his Savior and the love the Savior has demonstrated for him in offering himself as his Atoner. The person remembers what would have been if that atonement had not been made. (2 Ne. 9:6-9.) Man is always given power sufficient to follow the way of eternal life if he will resist temptation. (1 Cor. 10:13.) THE GIFT OF REPENTANCE The apostle Paul referred to two kinds of sorrow arising out of sin. The "sorrow of the world" is that remorse which turns one 911 December 1970 away from a sin in order to satisfy one's personal needs; as an example, a person might change his life to regain the respect of his family and friends or quit smoking for fear of contracting lung cancer. Though turning from the sin, there still remains the affront to God by breaking his commandments. This kind of sorrow, said Paul, "worketh death." (2 Cor. 7:10.) The sorrow for wrong committed that arises out of knowing that one has sinned against God is the "godly sorrow [that] worketh repentance to salvation." (2 Cor. 7:10.) In this case the sinner seeks to rectify his past conduct by changing his life with God's help, and thus he is made "sorry after a godly manner." (2 Cor. 7:9.) God grants man the ability to repent when he exercises true faith in his Son Jesus Christ. Before baptism in water, man prepares himself to receive covenants in showing the Lord he wants to be one with him. After baptism, repentance becomes the principle of forgiveness whereby one may be kept on the way to perfection by the discontinuance of evil practices. (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1956], pp. 100- 101; Spencer W. Kimball, The Miracle of Forgiveness [Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1969], chapter 12.) WATER BAPTISM Jesus becomes our Atoner for salvation, provided we have faith in him, repent of our sins, and accept the ordinances of water and spirit baptism. (D&C 18:11- 12; 29:17.) 912 Water baptism is the symbol of the atonement when administered by immersion by one having the divine authority. It is the "blood of Christ" which saves, but baptism is the way one accepts it. Paul likened this baptism to the Savior's going down into the grave and rising up to a new life; so also, the repentant person goes down into the water in similitude of Christ's atonement and is raised to a new life, devoid of offense toward God and man, having left sin behind. (Rom. 6:3-6; Moses 6:58-59; Mark 1:4; Acts 2:38; 22:16; D&C 49:13- 14.) SPIRIT BAPTISM The laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost performed by an authorized servant of God also remits sins. Unless one receives both water and spirit baptism, there is no remission of sins and therefore no exaltation. (John 3:5; 2 Ne. 31:17; D&C 19:31.) A purpose of the atoning sacrifice of Christ is to bring man into spiritual union with God that he may regain his presence. Spiritual life is received through obedience to the principles and ordinances by which the atonement of Christ becomes effective for salvation. (D&C 29:43-45; Joseph F. Smith, JD, 23:169-71.) The gift of the Holy Ghost provides gifts to the recipient that he may not be deceived by the powers of men and Satan. Class Discussion Show the relationship between water and spirit baptisms and the atonement of Christ. (continued on page 931) = a RZ) CORONA! Legs | = = om = & =a =: -__ ~~ me A we - NIA) AAG o Nez UT "| I im | | — l l! | | | ce ae ws » EA —_—_ = > SO « ih — = — A - a a en CE —— <2 cae —— 7 wa °° & > -. = aa f cam Se © oe ow Ge SE Oo aR GE cee & 2 eR —ee ee ce Ce "F AeVe) O38«5! (hee RS! (No s Sane Christ in Gethsemane. Stained Glass Window in the Bonneville Ward Chapel, Salt Lake City, Utah Transparency by Lorenzo S. Young. 913 CHRISTMAS A Season of Creative Beauty Home of Paul and Irene Buehner Many lovely and varied decorations are found in the Buehner home during the _ festive Christmas season. The familiar faces of seventeen grandchildren encased in gold frames are featured on a white flocked tree decorated with crystal icicles and gold balls. Irene Buehner has created a_ beautiful Christmas table with a red velvet cloth, hurricane lamps, and holly. Appropriately, above the piano hangs Christmas music, hand penned on parchment paper and framed in red and gold. The gold candles add dignity and grace. "The stockings are hung with care," and on the mantel a candelabrum is _ flanked by miniature trees with tiny balls and lights. Jane Merrill and Jennifer Buehner enjoy the warm fire. Transparencies by {| M. Heslop vane Fao metas Mares ye pes 2. - i. > 3 -: - rs - - - a} — a4, ae bs) bate aaa | Se RAL sae BEAUTY and WARMTH Home of Harold and Marian Boyer Inside and Out | Both sides of the door, inside and out, of the Boyer home in Salt Lake City, Utah, are decorated with red velvet ribbon, holly trees, and fruit. Marian Boyer uses the small mugs for serving Christmas treats, and tasty morsels abound during the season. The table, covered with a red velvet cloth, which is washable, features candlesticks and a cone tree made from miscellaneous decorations which are changed each year. Beads and ribbon adorn the chandelier. A touch of winter's loveliness is brought inside, minus the cold, with a white flocked tree with holly sprays and red satin balls in clusters, and gold lights. Transparencies by | M. Heslop i * Home of Dr. Jack M. Jensen and Winona Jensen A Mexican motif tree brings back many memories for the family of Dr. Jack M. Jensen, Salt Lake City, Utah. Numerous trips to Mexico have helped the family to develop a great love for the Mexican people. During their trips Winona Jensen has looked for decorative motifs which might be placed on a Christmas tree. From her knowledge of the favored colors and the traditions of the people, she has made other decorations in harmony with the land of Mexico. Trees of Reflection and Grace _ i Wid, ae) (o> idea eres ee. Christmas Tree in the Foyer of the Relief Society Building A tall and stately pine tree graces the foyer of the Relief Society building each year. This (1969) flocked tree features red velvet poinsettias and ribbon bows, with miniature gold lights. Ones Transparencies by | M. Heslop A lovely but inexpensive way to create a striking window is suggested at the Orval Fox home in Salt Lake City, Utah. The design was first made on black construction paper and then cut out. Cellophane was cut in the shape of the designs and attached to the construction paper. The cellophane was cut in layers to give intensity and variety to the colors. The finished design was backed with white tissue paper which accentuated the variety of colors. Stained Glass Window and a Glowing Castle Santa's glowing castle was made from a toy brick Designs by Reuben Fox kit, with a light placed inside to make the windows glow. White cotton was arranged on the sideboard for protection and for representing snow. Green Sa nOraltdnd Puacine C. Fox boughs and lights completed the scene. An urn, with unbelievably realistic plastic roses, set in front of a simply decorated tree, creates an unusually effective arrangement. The chairs are reproductions of famous French Provincial furniture. These chairs were carved in Italy, reupholstered by the Pias, and gold. Leafed by Maria Pia.: | TA " » ee > Ze gers 4 YY wa™ a> Flowers, Home of Le Roy and Marta Pia Transparencies by | M. Heslop Fruits, ia <email aac, — and Greenery oe Above the mantel hangs a woven tapestry which Maria Pia learned to make in Brazil, silk flowers, a boxwood garland, and_ baby'sbreath add to the festive appearance of the mantel. An artificial tree decorated with red velvet ribbons and cherubs is placed along the stairway to give the children a last bit of Christmas cheer before ascending to the bedrooms. For a large family, a long table is needed. A green velvet runner, topped with a boxwood garland, white baby's-breath, fruits, and lights, and a center candelabrum, with green candles make an attractive centerpiece for the table. Young LeRoy Pia, now serving a mission in Brazil, drew the picture for the gingerbread house. His father made the frame from cardboard, and the family decorated it. The gingerbread must be glued to the frame while it is still hot, so that it is soft enough to work with. The house can then be decorated to suit the family. A a te ry Ps ~ F. Ff = i B 4 ™ " ( Xa * 6 Ae as Blending Colors for Christmas Home of Walter R. And Ardell Ross Artificial fruit, pine cones, and leaves, sprayed gold, and attractively arranged, form the basis for Ardell Ross' Christmas table. The red candles are even more striking when the table is set with red dishes. A dark green, many-branched _ tree, with multi-colored _ lights, stands near the end of the table and sheds a soft light upon the table. An almost feathery effect is created by the use of pink lights on a white tree. Red poinsettias and golden doves contrast and blend with the pink and white. Around Christmas time it seems fitting that we use as decoration in our homes some reminder. Of that joyful occurrence we commemorate at the Christmas season. Anyone can buy beautiful decorations, but how much more meaning will something beautiful you made yourself have to you and your family! Materials needed: 1. Plaster of Paris heads, hands, and feet for Joseph, Mary, and Jesus (these were 3%" high for Joseph, 3" for Mary and 2" for Jesus). They came with matching plaster hands and feet, except for the baby; for him you may use plastic hands. 2. Styrofoam cones, one 21" tall for Joseph, and one 10" tall for Mary (remember she is seated). 3. Cotton fabric and white water solvent glue or cotton pre-treated draping fabric available at craft stores. 4. Wire strong but bendable and a good quality glue. 5. Paint in desired colors, antiquing, and spray glaze. Transparency by J M. Heslop "The Holy Family" Johna de St Jeor Member General Board of Relief Society Plaster heads, hands, and feet come with holes in them. Insert wire pieces, glue, and allow to dry. Stick wires securely into cones forming shoulders, arms, and necks (with head on top) for both Joseph and Mary, but for Mary, shape wire and secure for sitting position. It may be necessary to pad or wrap with fabric shoulders and legs for a more life-like form. Pose the figures' arms and legs to the desired form. Using a picture of the nativity scene, cut the fabric to resemble the type of clothing used in those times. If you are using pre-treated fabric dip and drape; if regular cotton, dilute glue with water and dip fabric and drape on figure; allow to dry completely. Paint whole with several coats of gesso. Refer to picture, using it as a guide for pleasingly rich colors for the clothing. After paint is dry, apply antiquing, being sure to get it back into the folds of fabric. Wipe off the glaze and allow to dry. Spray with clear finish to acquire a shining, clear, china-like surface. More than one coat of spray may be necessary. Use the same technique for the Child. Organize the three figures in a loving family group. 923 Cultural Retin Transparencies by | M. Heslop Relief Society Booth at L. D. S. Open House Utah State Fair September 11-20, 1970 Under a General Board committee, with Edythe K. Watson as chairman, the Olympus Stake Relief Society Board, with the cooperation of Stake President LeGrand Curtis, prepared this beautifully arranged and informative display. The oil paintings by Clyde Smith (of Olympus Stake) represented the courses of study and services of Relief Society: visiting teaching, compassionate service, Singing Mothers, spiritual living, social relations, and cultural refinement. The artist painted the pictures especially for the display at the fair. They are 30 inches by 48 inches, and all the models are from Olympus Stake. Homemaking arts were illustrated and displayed on a long table covered with an attractive deep blue cloth. Seated on the rocker is lola J. Peterson, President, Olympus Stake Relief Society, demonstrating the making of an afghan. Continuous demonstrations were given which awakened the interest of those who visited the fair and learned more about Relief Society from narrations presented by stake board members and ward Relief Society officers. 925 Homemaking Display at Relief Society Annual General Conference Views of the Homemaking Display held in the Salt Palace, Salt Lake City, Utah, as a part of the 1970 Relief Society Annual General Conference. The center motif was a carousel, with different displays featured around the large hall. The carousel itself was prepared by Emigration Stake under the direction of President Hazel J. Young. Dorotha Smart supervised the construction of the carousel and was assisted in the displays by JaNeanne Webster. Featured around the carousel were items prepared by stakes throughout the Church. The displays included home and gift items, handicraft, foods, pastry and candy, as well as ne items especially designed for children. The nursery display by Modesto Stake, California, under direction of Catherine Openshaw, President, featured activities found in the Nursery Manual. Of special interest were a play rug, a cupboard, and a toy box, as well as visual aid suggestions for each month of the year, as designated in the Manual. Dolls and doll clothes, posters, drawings, pictures, books, and scrapbooks presented additional ideas for happy and constructive nursery hours. A menagerie of stuffed animals, some of them naturalistic, and some imaginative, gave evidence of variety in entertainment for the very young. Es Transparencies by ] M. Heslop This colorful and effective display of various uses for patchwork quilting was prepared by Washington (D. C.) Stake, under direction of President Nona Dyer. Jean Boyd, who designed and stitched the items shown in the picture, is seen seated in a chair (wearing red dress) demonstrating the fine art of patchwork quilting to a visitor interested in the exhibits. Sister Boyd has designed many other articles using this type of quilting and has made extensive demonstrations for the wards in the Washington area. The attractive evening coat is displayed on a model. The coat is beautifully lined and carefully stitched. A different and unique use of patchwork quilting is illustrated by the valance at the top of the picture. Also included are other effective and modernized uses forthe traditional art of quilting. Transparency by J] M. Heslop Marilyn Clawson and _ Sallie Latimer, Fairbanks Ward, Alaska Stake, have walked many miles in bitter cold weather, to answer and fulfill the calling of visiting teachers. They are pictured here in front of the Cardon family home in, February 1970. Photograph submitted by Lois Olson Patchwork Quilting Display a Visiting Teaching in Alaska Christmas Fun With Felt and Food Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society Transparencies by | M. Heslop It has been aptly said that the beauty of a home is order, the blessing of a home is contentment, and the glory of a home is hospitality. The Christmas season, with all its festivity and good humor, is a delightful time to open the doors of our homes and let the warmth of hospitality welcome friends, neighbors, and family. During the years | have made a variety of Christmas table covers for holiday entertaining, from simple cotton ones to an elaborate sequin-studded one. The cover which | use most frequently, however, with the greatest ease and enjoyment is a set of red felt place mats which includes small-sized mats for the accessories, as shown in the accompanying picture. To measure the felt size and shape | used a 15" round tray, a 9" salad plate, and a 4" cup. The centerpiece was made from artificial holly and greens with red "velvet" apples of varying sizes. | chose the velvet-like fruit because its texture blended well with the felt mats. The napkin rings are an added touch. They, too, are easy to make. Cut strips of green felt with pinking shears, or scissors, six inches long and = one inch wide. Lap the ends together and secure with a small felt bow. Add three tiny round beads for giving special interest. Simple red or green napkins complete' the setting. The following is a favorite lunch holiday menu. It is a delight to prepare because the chicken can be cooked, and the cheese ball, salad, rolls, and dessert prepared a day ahead. 928 MENU MULLED CRANBERRY DRINK CHEESE BALL CRACKERS CHICKEN AND BROCCOL| CASSEROLE RASPBERRY SALAD REFRIGERATOR ROLLS JAM OR JELLY RELISH TRAY MINTED CHOCOLATE MOUSSE MULLED CRANBERRY DRINK 3 1-pint bottles Cranberry juice ©. Orange juice 1 c. Sugar Ya tsp. Nutmeg 2 c. Water Ya tsp. Cinnamon YANG, lemon. Juice 12 whole Cloves CHEESE BALL 3 8-02z. Pkg. Cream cheese Yanai chopped pecans 1 5-oz. Pkg. Blue cheese 2 tbsp. Soft butter 1 1% oz. Wedge Roquefort cheese % to % tsp. Garlic powder 2 to 3 tbsp. Finely grated % tsp. Onion Salt Cheddar cheese Ya tsp. Worcestershire Sauce CHICKEN BROCCOLI CASSEROLE 3 ¢. Cooked chicken, cut into Ya to % c. 8rated Cheddar cheese 1" or 144" Pieces buttered bread crumbs 2 cans cream of chicken soup 2 pkg. Frozen broccoli spears 1 tbsp. Lemon juice (Or equal amount fresh Cooked) lc. Salad dressing Place chicken iN buttered Casserole. Combine soup, lemon juice, Salad dressing, and 1% c. Water 1 banana sliced 1 pkg. Raspberry jello 1 # 1 flat tin Crushed Pineapple ] pkg. Frozen raspberries "4 C. Pecans Dissolve jello in water. Add frozen berries. Separate with fork until thawed. Add remaining ingredients. Serves 8. 929 December 1970 HOT ROLLS—REFRIGERATOR Combine and let stand for one hour: Add: 1 cake yeast 2 tsp. Salt Yc. Lukewarm water Y2 c. Sugar 1 tsp. Sugar Y2 c. Butter (or other shortening) 1 egg 142 c. Warm water 5-5'% c. Flour Mix together. Dough will be soft. Cover and refrigerate overnight. Roll out on slightly floured board. Cut into rolls. Place on well-greased pan (| use melted butter). Let rise until double in bulk in warm place (about 1% to 2 hrs.) Bake at 425° for 12 to 15 minutes. Makes 3 dozen rolls. MINTED CHOCOLATE MOUSSE 1 c. Butter (softened) 4 eggs 1 c. Powdered sugar 1 tsp. Peppermint extract 32 squares chocolate 2 tsp. Vanilla melted and cooled 2 c. Chopped pecans Beating is the secret of this dessert. Beat butter and add sugar gradually. Beat for 15 minutes. Add melted chocolate; beat 5 minutes more. Add unbeaten eggs one at a time, beating after each addition. Add flavoring. Place chopped nuts in bottom of paper muffin cups. Add filling. Sprinkle nuts on top. Add cherry, if desired. Freeze. If covered well these will keep for a week or more. Makes 2 dozen. Serve in paper cups. FOR HIS TOMORROWS His own boat, a cardboard box. His playroom is a deep blue sea. He catches fish (his own small socks). My best broom is a tall palm tree. But now, 'I'll help you, Mommy— I'll clean the house and dust it, see!' | wouldn't have him know for worlds How much his help is hindering me. —Wilma Morley Despain A Little Bit of Life June B. Jensen The happy month was over; young parents had taken her away with them. My arms would be empty; no more fat little fingers pulling my nose, or kisses on the back of a little neck, and faltering first steps to admire; but goodbyes were said, and with no tears. I hurried to clean the rooms, put away the crib, think busy thoughts of dolater tasks I had saved. I was doing all right until I found a little sock.... 930 Lesson Department LESSON DEPARTMENT (continued from page 912) ENDURING TO THE END The reason for man's existence was revealed in the beginning: "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Moses 1:39.) That purpose is to bring about the resurrection and eventual godhood, or a fulness of joy, of those who choose the way of life which brings this ultimate exaltation. Whereas all men receive their physical bodies in the resurrection, the powers of God are received only by those who accept Jesus Christ as their Savior and live the commandments in the plan of salvation. The understanding of the purpose of life begins with the doctrine of man's premortality, of his birth as a son of God with the potential of godhood. Provision was made for an earth life wherein man could be proved and tested to determine his worthiness for dwelling in God's presence forever. The body man receives by birth in this life insures that he will receive his physical, flesh and bone resurrected body. Without this body he would be unable to receive a fulness of joy, or eternal life, the second great purpose of existence. In order that God's earth children might understand the way of salvation, the gospel plan was given to Adam who was commanded to teach it to his posterity. That plan, prepared before the earth was created, provided for release from the two consequences of Adam's transgression, spiritual death and physical death. The Divine Being capable of satisfying the law of justice by application of the law of mercy was the Only Begotten of the Eternal Father in the flesh, Jesus Christ, who had power over death and the capability of remitting man's sins. Inasmuch as all men will receive their resurrected bodies unconditionally through the atonement of Christ, the first purpose of. Life is accomplished. But the second purpose—godhood— comes by the application of the principles of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and of repentance and then the acceptance of the atonement by water and spirit baptism followed by continued obedience to the Lord's commandments. These ordinances are directly related to the atonement and therefore are necessary for salvation in God's presence and for exaltation. Erring man is provided the power by which he may continue on his journey to exaltation through his continued exercise of faith and the principle of repentance. He knows that the Savior pleads his cause with the Father by reason of the atonement. (Moro. 6:4; D&C 38:4; 45:3-4.) He knows the tremendous cost of the atonement in terms of excruciating pain, bleeding at every pore. The penitent saint expresses his love for the Savior by keeping his commandments. (D&C 18:10-16;.19:15-19.) He knows that his heart may be purified and joy immeasurable be received in and through faith in Jesus Christ, and knowing these things desires to endure to the end. (D&C 6:13; 53:7.) 93 Lesson Department ch Paul and Barnabas 5. The first ¢ Seek econciliation in Preached, "Fo, SO hath the Lord - — to esp rement -. Careful to £eM everyone aS wort ee d 4 2 ee I f a While and to Consider no One in. Set thee lg O e ferio entiles that thou houldest b 7 Careful not to impose ) alues on Or salvatio Unto the nds of Cthers but to Vite them, through € earth." (Acts 13:47.) Our examples to seek hat we have ow ay we live to be this 8 €amest in teac Ing o ildren to: m lb] id f ot ight of the entiles? There are ~ on i cm when Tate Of others Many Way € should be 1. Humble i €n when needed; 10. Not Builty of Carryj 1 nN the 80spel so that it attracts not r: NE gossip to Others Il. Quick © offer he]; epels others Sensitive always to the roubles and oving friends nd neigh — needs of Others, he ng without the most thought, 1, compassio ate intrusion kind, and Considerate €ople on our Street: 7 If we do Interested In our eighbors () Understand t -.. The Ment were Tegarded a 4POSstates, _. Were Classeq With ered a 800d ¢ Sinners (Matt. Ix. 11, x7. 19), wi att. Xx] 31, 32), with the h December 1970 found him talking with such a woman (and she a despised Samaritan) and know why they "marvelled that he talked with the woman." (John 4:27.) Who would imagine that she would be an instrument of salvation? "And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman." (John 4:39.) To this lowly, sinning woman Jesus gave some of the most beautiful teachings of his ministry. What was Jesus saying to us? Was he not bidding us not to judge but to look within the heart? Was he not calling us out of the world to give up its values and adopt his way of loving? Jesus was monumentally kind to sinners. Many of them he knew would be redeemed if given a chance. Should we do less? A few years ago a group of women were having lunch together. A very attractive and talented woman walked by. When she was out of hearing, one of the women asked, "Did you know that she has been married four times 'and that it is widely held that some of her children are illegitimate?" The woman went on to elaborate. As she was still speaking, one of the group interrupted: "Isn't it wonderful that this woman has learned the great lesson of repentance? She blesses all our lives through her talent. Everyone is richer because of her. She is always gracious and willing. Let us all agree to say nothing of what we have heard today so that it will never be an obstacle to her or her family." Shamefacedly, the members of the group agreed. Does our neighbor work at a very menial job? Does she speak ungrammatically? Does she do things that offend us? Do we shun her as not our equal? The good news of Jesus Christ was that he welcomed the repentant sinner. He understood the hearts of men and women and recognized their goodness when it was present. He was unhampered in his love by awkward customs, despised jobs, lack of prestige, lack of wealth, or lack of power. As we emulate him, respecting and loving the foreigner, the stranger, the sinner, the despised, the one in need, surely our sisters of the world will re-. Spond to our beckoning love. O feel S > Wy * SPLENDOR IN THE WEST The radiant sun is setting Even as my years go by, And patterns of departing Repeat a promise on the sky. For as the hills await the dawn | see the covenant of light And wait renewal of the morning Beyond the darkness and the night. 934 —Catherine B. Bowles po HOMEMAKING—A Lovelier You Discussion 7 '"'Thy Speech Betrayeth Thee'"' Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, September 1971 OBJECTIVE: To alert women to the advantage of using proper grammar and of having a voice that is pleasing. INTRODUCTION One of the most important of all social skills is the ability to talk clearly and correctly. Nothing so quickly demonstrates our charm or lack of knowledge to others as our conversation and use of words. There are several basic qualities which go into the skill of conversing with others, such as the importance of having a pleasing voice and good diction, skill and ease in the use of words, a variety of interests in conversation, the ability to listen, and a genuine liking for people. THE IMPORTANCE OF A PLEASING VOICE Our whole personality comes to focus in our voice and speech. We should be aware of creating pleasant tones when we talk. Clear enunciation and correct pronunciation are important. Voices can be magnetic or irritating. Certainly an important quality of feminine charm is a soft, low-pitched voice. We should become conscious of talking from our diaphragm. We should pronounce words clearly and distinctly. A good voice is an unaffected voice, with a clear, natural tone. Shakespeare said, "Her voice was ever soft, gentle and low, an excellent thing in woman." (King Lear, act 5, sc. 3, l. 274.) What are some techniques we can use to improve our voice? 1. We can practice speaking from the diaphragm. 2. We can use a tape recorder to hear ourselves speak. Listening to our own voice helps us to hear ourselves as others hear us and be aware of needed improvement. 3. We can practice speaking quietly and pitching our voice as low as it will go without strain. Reading aloud and practicing good enunciation is an excellent exercise for voice improvement. 4. We can listen to talented speakers and good radio announcers, noticing the advantages of word sounds that are smooth and unhurried. Discussion Questions 1. Are we conscious of our conversational voice? What does it indicate about us as a person? 2. Does our tone of voice reflect our self-control? How? $35 December 1970 ADVANTAGES OF USING PROPER GRAMMAR It is a well-known fact that habits of early speech are deeply ingrained. Incorrect grammar learned in the home when we're young often stays with us. Unfortunately, children often imltate the poor speech pattern of parents. Using poor grammar is offensive to some listeners and often detracts from the message being conveyed. Correct sentence structure reflects an individual's desire to communicate in accordance with the proper rules of grammar. In the English language, some common errors in grammar are: 1. The incorrect use of personal pronouns. We hear such mistakes as "between you and I" instead of "between you and me" or "A group of we neighbors" instead of "A group of us neighbors."' 2. The incorrect use of verbs. We hear such mistakes as "he begun" instead of "he began" or "I'll lay down" instead of "Ill lie down". VOCABULARY It is a mark of consideration for others to be careful in the selection of words. Words are important conversational tools. It is interesting and challenging to be on the alert for new words and ways to use them. Our vocabulary grows from contact with good writers and good speakers. Words have been called "the tools of the mind." No one can think beyond his vocabulary. To be truthful we might say that our thoughts do not amount to much unless we can express them in words. CONVERSATION It is well to practice the correct pronunciation of difficult words in 936 order that communication be more complete. It is of little value to have a nice voice and correct pronunciation if we have nothing to say. Good conversation is a natural expression of good thinking. It is easy to have a speaking acquaintance with any subject in which we are really interested. A keen awareness of things happening about us can help to make us good conversationalists. If we keep our eyes and ears open, if we are sympathetic and have a sense of humor, we can become exciting conversationalists about many of the daily experiences we have. Listening is part of the art of good conversation and a mark of common courtesy. When someone is talking to us we should listen with our eyes, ears, and mind. Our expression should show that we are following what is being said. WORD OF WARNING "Thy speech betrayeth thee" and, therefore, we not only take care in our manner of speech but we also remember these four 'dons': 1. Don't gossip. 2. Don't exaggerate. 3. Don't criticize others. 4. Don't interrupt. CONCLUSION Elder Richard L. Evans, in his weekly broadcasts from Temple Square, has brought to all the world an appreciation of "The Spoken Word." Speech is one of the choice gifts of God to man. A well modulated voice and the ability to use and pronounce words correctly are important aspects of "'a lovelier you" and an influence for good in the home. —— HOMEMAKING A Lovelier You Discussion 8 Making Your Family Proud of You Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, October 1971 OBJECTIVE: To point out that a pleasing personality, proper attitudes, and good manners are of importance not only to a woman herself, but to her family. INTRODUCTION "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God." (D& C 18:10.) Joseph Smith taught that the human personality, besides being immensely fascinating, is mysterious and elusive, and far and away the most important and precious thing in the whole universe. OF WHAT DOES PERSONALITY CONSIST? Personality consists, first of all, of our physical traits, such as our hair coloring, our skin, our eyes, the shape of our face, our stature, and our figure. We portray our personality to others by the way we talk and walk and stand. Our mannerisms, the way we smile, the clarity of our eyes, the expression of our mouth, the way we shake hands and our manner of greeting people are all personality traits. We reflect our personality through our habits, our grooming, our vocabulary, our thoughts, and attitudes. A PLEASING PERSONALITY A pleasing personality is an asset of great worth. It is built upon the basic foundation of consideration for others. A pleasing personality involves such traits as— 1. Being helpful and willing to go out of your way to help others. 2. Being reliable and dependable in doing what you say you will do. 3. Being tolerant of others. 4. Being honest. 5. Being natural and unpretentious. 6. Being interesting by being interested. 7. Being enthusiastic. 8. Being optimistic. 9. Being considerate and polite. 10. Being gracious in manner. 11. Developing a pleasant voice and a refined vocabulary. Personality is the sum total of an individual's specific behavior. How simple it is to get along with others when we remember to give them the warmth of our friendship, the gladness of our smile, and the strength of our approval. IMPROVING PERSONALITY To improve our personality we endeavor to eliminate displeasing traits of behavior. A check list for ourselves is helpful at times. 1. Do we avoid the use of sarcasm? 2. Do we avoid saying things about others which we wouldn't say in their presence? 3. When we make a promise, are we careful about living up to it? 4. Do we avoid arguments if possible? 5. Do we attempt to dominate people? 6. Do we make fun of people? 7. Do we act and feel as if we are superior? 93/7 December 1970 Cultivation of the habits of behavior that will enrich our own lives and increase the happiness of others is a worthwhile goal. How wonderful it is to know it is possible to overcome negative traits and develop positive ones. PERSONALITY TRAITS IMPORTANT IN A MOTHER Today in the midst of a troubled world, it is vital for mothers to have strength of character and stability. Both are important personality traits. Mothers are facing the challenge of maintaining decent family life in a world which seems to promote irreSOCIAL RELATIONS Living Morally in a Changing World: we on ns en ee oe eee ee ee sponsible living. To meet this situation she needs poise, balance, level-headedness, good sense, and moral stability. A mother's example before her children should be one of abiding faith in God and unwavering belief in Church standards. CONCLUSION Personality is the sum total of all those qualities which make each of us unique and different from all other individuals. Therefore, it is more important to develop a pleasing personality than to acquire material assets in becoming "a lovelier you." ee ee ee oe en Lesson 7—Self-Control and Discipline Northern Hemisphere: Third week, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third week, September 1971 OBJECTIVE: To understand that ''no"' can mean that parents care. INTRODUCTION There are rewards to being a parent and there are hazards. A task for every parent is to reduce the hazards and increase the rewards. Understanding children and their needs at particular periods in their development— sometimes compared to a series of "childhoods'"—can help us to avoid child-rearing mistakes, to relate better to the needs of our children and, thus, to enjoy them more fully. In the lesson today we will address ourselves specifi- 938 cally to the psychological need of every child for control or discipline, which can be defined as training according to rules, instruction in the proper conduct er action, bringing to a state of order. CHILDREN NEED CONTROLS Parents should not fear to set limits, or to restrict their children, or to punish them reasonably when motivated by love. According to King Benjamin, we or ¢ are not to "suffer" (permit or allow) our children to "'transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another." (Mosiah 4:14.) The Father of all chastens whom he "loveth." A Pulitzer prize winner, Phillis McGinley, has written sensitively about the needs of children. She confessed that the longer she lived in a house with children, the less importance she placed on "cooperatively threshing out matters of conduct" and _ giving reasons for all her yeses and noes. She has suggested in her book Sixpence in Her Shoe, that she would provide rules for children to follow and would make the rules just and _ strict. She would avoid arguments. "Children, in their hearts, like laws," Mrs. McGinley states, and since authority indicates order in the world, children and most people wish to support law and receive the freedom which is a result of obedience to law. When parents are too permissive, children become confused and lack stability and direction. Children live rapidly in the few years of their greatest possibilities for learning, and it is difficult for them to participate in "analyzing the logic behind every command or taboo." AGE-RELATED NOES The need for controls does not remain the same in infancy, childhood, and adolescence, but is ever changing. All the controls needed by the newborn, and these are many, are external and are provided almost entirely by the mother. The mother and the infant are so close as to be almost one, and it has been suggested that the infant does not, at first, distinguish between itself and the mother. To ensure consistency and dependability of care for the infant, we need only to make Lesson Department sure that the mother's needs are served, that she has the necessities of life, is free of crippling illnesses, is valued for her own sake, and brings to the mothering role past experiences of herself being mothered. Later, in the next "childhood," during ages approximately one to three, the external controls become more internalized. This is when caring parents will say "no, no" to the child; and, increasingly, the child will say "no, no" to himself, thus relying more on internal controls than external ones. Fathers, by their example and conduct in the home as priesthood bearers, can instill a love and respect for authority and orderliness that will set the pattern of respect that the child will later have for law and order and for the values and authority of society. Class Discussion When we know the importance of selfcontrol, why is it so difficult to say no to our children? Each period of childhood provides teaching and learning opportunities for inculcating a sense of what is right and wrong as pertains to conduct and action. The preschool child, especially, needs good models. It is at this time that the "dos and do nots" are internalized and a conscience more fully developed. Boys identify with their fathers and almost worshipfully think that these fathers can do anything. They try to be like them in every way possible, incorporating their values and actions. Girls similarly pattern after their mothers. Also, — the neighborhood begins to be important in molding personality. 958 December 1970 The "tares" of unbelief and misconduct grow in our midst at the peril of our children. IMPORTANCE OF TEACHING-LEARNING The Lord has recognized the importance of the teaching-learning needs of very young children by giving us the Sunday School, the Primary, and our family home evening lessons. As the example and teachings of parents become an internalized part of the child, reinforced by teachers in Primary and Sunday School, the Latter-day Saint child is ready for baptism and the selfdiscipline of speaking the truth and doing what ls nght. Secular schooling begins in earnest for most children at the age of five or six and continues for many years. It is estimated that when school is in session children are occupied in the classroom or by its demands twenty to thirty percent of the time they are awake. The school's program is pervasive and has a major influence in the lives of our children; and while it ls true that the teachings of the home, the Sunday School, and the Primary provide guidelines for them, it ls nonetheless very important that schools properly reinforce these teachings. We neglect the schools at the peril of our children in the same way children are placed in jeopardy by the inhospitable and evil influences that we sometimes permit in our neighborhoods. School children in the elementary grades learn to do things with others. As they discover other children in cooperative work and play, they become a mutually vital force in molding 940 and influencing one another. The lives of children become inter- © woven. Adults who intelligently involve themselves in school-related activities, through parentteacher-school relationships, contribute to the quality of the education their children receive. DISCIPLINE AND SELF-CONTROL President McKay has defined quality education for us. He has written: I believe that discipline in the classroom, which implies self-control, and which connotes consideration for others, is the most important part of teaching. -- - The best lesson a child can learn is self-control, and to feel his relationship to others to the extent that he must have respect for their feelings. Self-denial is so important and self-control such a valuable quality in human nature, that one man has said truly that the worst eduelse and not that. (David O. McKay, Man May Know for Himself {Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1969], p. 337.) The conscience of a child, so much a part of self-control, ls largely form ed before adolescence, and yet, adolescents seek advice from peers and welcome a Festraining hand from caring adults who recognize and accept their need for identity and independence. Parents will incur suspicion if they are patronizing, for as illustrated in the following -humorous item from Changing Times, adolescents like to think they know for themselves. Mother wrote: Seventeen was 4 bad year for me.-- the year my son was 17, that is. Things were frequently stormy. - - - Once during a particularly emotional argument about his attitudes, he mumbled "You do some things that I don't like, too." That seemed highly reasonable to me as J Mentally reviewed some f my kno SUMMARY allings (like Prying into his Personal] life Y asking him ow he was, or akin In this | Sson Im fee] Builty by ¢ king out the 8arbage OW the j Portan t in his Presence), Outh s If-contro Self-discj With Omplete sincerity I asked im ae the yese; O ror ne to tell me What h had in Mind. Aft ra 5 Pause to g ther Control, he Said, "Wel} a wd actions, ot of times YOu act as t ough you know ° show tha More than | 0." ("Guilty th eneration, " Fro Chang l lplinger Magazine, Vol nN } that these tea -~ 24, No. 2 [February 1979], Pp. 42 a. Legacy. D Y, the gs Parat ission.) Reprinted b "childho ds" are on] efly menen. "oned, byt an effo Adolescents d e need t Mportance of right and eve inde Wrong to set limits for chi] Pendence j; Nticipatio of the dren—y, t to deprive 9 Provoke Imminent}. SPonsibility of fur. But for ¢ 'T Protection and bether educa ton, a mission €mCause w love ©m. The infant Ployment and Marri 8e, they ina State of biological} an somehow have + deny the im. Tion Ide ne Portance of Il prot tio Later is ldespread he learns the Meaning of "No" as a € process begins f PSycholog;. Urgence of Spirit and Cally nternalizin: desire y Ich, jf a Ss. Al standards "Ccountability is er-day Saint Parents tested in 941 December 1970 Class Discussion What is the relationship of permissiveness (where it is excessive) with the very young child to the willful uncontrolled acts of those same children in adolescence? FOR HOME-DOING Accept as a challenge for yourself some act of self-denial or self-discipline in an effort toward self-improvement. SOCIAL RELATIONS: Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 8—That We Might Have Joy Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, October 1971 OBJECTIVE: ''Men are, that they might have joy" (2 Ne. 2:25), and this lesson is designed to heip the Latter-day Saint woman achieve more joy through a healthy balance of the religious, mental, social, and physical dimensions of her life. Father Lehi explained certain dimensions of the gospel to his son Jacob, as recorded in the second chapter of 2 Nephi. A statement by Lehi summarizes the purpose of life and Adam's responsibility in the eternal scheme: "Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy." (2 Ne. 2:25. See also 2 Ne. 9:10; 2 Ne. 27:30; D&C 6:31; 18:15; 42:61.) In the Old and New Testament (Neh. 8:10; Job 38:7; John 16:22) the term "Joy" is used to identify a desirable state of being and a suitable goal for man. It is also used to indicate. One of man's ultimate achievements. Joy is associated with exaltation in the kingdom of the Father, and the term appears to be synonymous with the achievement of inner and outer harmony with God and his purposes. The lessons for this year recognize the need for the Latter- 942 day Saint woman to understand the current life problems of herself and her family that she may discover how to achieve the balance that makes it possible to be "in the world but not of the world." While extended communications media are available to hasten the Lord's work, they are also available to the forces of Satan. Satan has, in effect, been invited to live among us. He can come to us via radio, television, motion pictures, theater, publications, and the public platform. Satan's bid for our time, our energies, our thoughts, and our very souls is relentless and skillful. We must qualify ourselves to acknowledge the Lord and his program and avoid Satan's enticings. The person who has balanced his life patterns has learned to use good judgment, and by virtue of having good judgment, is not apt to submit to Satan's tempta- tions. Four dimensions of our life that are important to keep in balance and that need frequent checking to assure a sufficient but not exclusive focus of our time and energies are religious activities, mental activities, social activities, and physical activities. Satan glories in using partial truths to enhance his work, and some of his tactics are best detected and avoided if we keep these four dimensions in balance. Let us examine each of them and try to understand what the healthy balance is and how we can detect any pattern that lacks balance. RELIGIOUS ACTIVITY When we speak of religious activities needing to be kept in balance in our lives, we must be sure to make the distinction between these activities and spirituality. Spirituality refers to man's relationship with God. Understanding this, we must realize that true spirituality should run through the fabric of all of our activities. As the Lord put it, we should be "doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God." (D&C 82:19. Italics added.) The vitality of this spiritual force will guide us in meeting the problems of the right emphasis and balance to apply to all the dimensions of our lives. Religious activities include such things as a study of the scriptures, service in the Church, and attendance at the numerous meetings available to us during the week. Since many of us suffer more from an underemphasis in this area, we usually need to spend more time and effort on Lesson Department religious activities in order to achieve a balance. The woman who becomes too preoccupied with housework or social events may neglect her religious practice. Occasionally, one overemphasizes religious activities to the exclusion of other life dimensions. Reading the scriptures is a highly commendable and constructive activity, but if one reads only the scriptures to the complete neglect of other materials such as daily newspapers, magazines, journals, or books, he risks a onesidedness that may result in an unbalanced pattern of life. Knowledge of God, spiritual matters, and man's relation to God and to his fellowmen is often enhanced through becoming acquainted with sources of knowledge in addition to the scriptures. Many great scientists, literary writers, philosophers, and social scientists come to a greater conviction of God and his works through their study of the physical world, the history of man and his social adaptations, the many and varied aspects of the great body of knowledge and understanding in all areas of life. One's progress may be impeded if there is neglect in acquiring knowledge of man and his world. It is possible for a wife and mother to pursue her religious practices so enthusiastically and so completely that she seriously neglects her family. Marital disharmony and estrangement from the children may result. A mother must balance her Church work with her role as wife and mother so as to avoid alienation from her loved ones. If she truly understands the gospel of Jesus Christ, 943 December 1970 she will realize what her first and greatest calling is. Question for Discussion What are some ideas that can help a woman fulfill her Church assignments without neglecting her family? MENTAL INTERESTS Man was endowed by God with the ability to learn from God and from other men. The pursuit of knowledge, therefore, is a major activity of mankind. Some of the important aspects of life are discerned only by the spint, but others are acquired through diligent study and the seeking of knowledge through the power of the intellect. A balanced life is one in which intellectual knowledge is gained through formal and informal education. Knowledge of the world and man's interactions in it is essentially an activity of the mind. Although God can inspire or reveal great truths or understanding to his children, he wants us to acquire through our own efforts knowledge of most matters pertaining to life and even to his kingdom. In this dimension of human potential, as in the religious area, the Latter-day Saint woman may err by devoting her life exclusively to intellectual pursuits as an area for growth and advancement. Too little interest and effort in the mental area result in ignorance of the laws of the universe. The intellect is enlarged and expanded through constant effort to learn whatever one is capable of knowing. Narrowness of intellectual interest stifles the God-given capacity to think clearly and to relate spiritual knowledge to the day-to-day processes 944 of life and living. As stated in the Doctrine and Covenants, "'the glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth" (D&C 93:36), and man's highest aspirations should take him into all the areas of knowledge he is capable of learning. To do less than this is to live below our potential for acquiring as much as the Lord would have us know and understand. It can leave us with insufficient ability to make productive use of our God-given free agency. Question for Discussion How could lack of knowledge influence one's free agency? The pursuit of knowledge in a woman's life should be done without neglect of other vital life experiences. Academic excellence is a worthwhile goal or achievement but not to the exclusion of spiritual activities or good social adjustment. Questions for Discussion 1. How can a woman improve her mind as she rears her family? 2. Since so much of the written material in books and magazines is of questionable standard, isn't it better just to read the scriptures? The wife and mother who is overly imbued with her achievement of mental or intellectual growth may attend school, participate in intellectual hobbies, or become overly involved with her intellectual pursuits to the point that she neglects her duties as a mother and wife. A woman may be so eager to grow mentally that a high percentage of her total energy and time is directed to formal and informal educational activities, hence her home is usu- ally disorganized, meals are sporadic and poorly planned, recreation is ignored, and family interaction is minimal and of poor quality. This woman is paying a high price for her intellectual diligence. Her life would be more balanced and productive if she distributed her energy and time among the duties of her home, her family, her social responsibility, and the care of her physical health. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Savior on many occasions spoke directly to the point of man's need to accept responsibility, to evidence interest, and to practice that which demonstrates the brotherhood of man. Our concern for one another, coupled with a practical demonstration of the concern, is a suitable goal for each of us. The self-centered person who sees life as pleasurable self-seeking, with little or no concern for other people, is far removed from the goals of the gospel and from that which will bring him a genuine source of satisfaction in life. Healthy social interdependence is consonant with gospel standards and goals and also with sound _ personal adjustment. The person who shirks his responsibility to other people or who is incapable of considering other people's difficulties as part of his own, misses much that is valuable in life. Personal growth is related to one's capacity to be considerate and thoughtful of others. The small child is completely selfcentered and concerned only with his personal needs and physical gratifications. As the child moves Lesson Department toward maturity, he usually develops a capacity to give consideration to the wishes, problems and preferences of others, as well as to his own. Two scriptures which set forth these aspects of personal achievement are from the New Testament. "He that findeth his life shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it." (Matt. 10:39.) "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets." (Matt. 7:12.) Life can also become unbalanced if one is overly concerned about others and too little concerned about himself. One of the great commandments is to love God and our neighbor as ourself. We are not instructed to love our neighbor and forget ourselves, but to give equal sharing to both areas. Each of us is precious in the eyes of God, and a tendency to minimize our own importance or significance is to discount the value God assigns to each of us. Other people are important, but one's self is important, too. The mother who lives only for her family is not apt to be fulfilling her role in a constructive manner; her wishes, her life, and her time become overinvested to the exclusion of herself. Such an overinvestment is very apt to contaminate parent-child relationships because the mother is living too much through her children and not enough for herself. When this condition exists, the mother's happiness ascends and descends exclusively with the happiness or unhappiness of her child. The child senses this and tends to feel inappropriately responsible 945 December 1970 additional reaction from the individual who undervalues herself Is to give a priority to others' expectations, even When these expectations are inappropriate. One husband, for example, told his wife she responsible for the Marital disimpulsive, Pleasure-seeking and Irresponsible behavior. Question for Discussion PHYSICAL HEALTH The Word of Wisdom, among other scriptures, indicates the importance and value of good physical health. The Latter-day Saint health is contrary to the doctrine of the Church. The human body is the tabernacle of the spirit, and, as such, should receive the important areas. The Individual who is conStantly in search of some "fountain of youth" -ls missing the Opportunity to make more jm- 946 portant and Significant achievements. Good physical health is a boon to personal Srowth and developQuestions for Discussion 1. In what ways is a woman apt to overvalue physical health? 2. How is a wife and mother apt to undervalue her physical health? 3. How cana woman check herself to be certain she is not out of balance in her life? 4. What areas of life is the average woman most apt to neglect? 5. — What different challenges exist for the married and the single woman in maintaining a balanced life? SUMMARY The busy day-to-day activities of the average Latter-day Saint view of life and the Lord's program can result in inappropriate emphasis on one of life's dimensions to the exclusion of others. The Latter-day Saint woman is most apt to achieve genuine joy in this life when she keeps her life balanced and productive in all important areas, ee NC AR OR ret noe ee CULTURAL REFINEMENT | Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family a eee Pe an ee» me enetvelancem stone Lesson 6—An Affirmation of Spiritual Values 'Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, August 1971 OBJECTIVE: To encourage greater spirituality in the life of a woman through an appreciation of spiritual truths found in selections from the writings of William Wordsworth. ART 'The Little White Girl' by James Abbott McNeill Whistler (1834-1930), American, the National Gallery, London. Reproduction of Painting, The Relief Society Magazine, September 1970, p. 687.) COMMENTARY It has been said that the laborer works with his hands, the craftsman works with his hands and his head, and the artist works with his hands, his head, and his heart. Ences a feeling of rightness. This revelation is often accompanied by or gives rise to a wonderfully warm emotional response. The greatness of Whistler's works is due to the feeling of rightness they evoke. His paintings are not intended to tell a story but are purely aesthetic—some would call them spiritual. "The Little White Girl" is a good example of the serene feeling of rightness—the interesting to compare this painting with Wordsworth's poem "| Wandered Lonely As a Cloud."' Although the Subject matter is not the Same, the experience is related as suggested by the last stanza: For oft when on my couch | lie In vacant or in pensive mood, They flash upon that inward eye Which is the bliss of solitude; And then my heart with pleasure fills And dances with the daffodils. (Out of the Best Books, 3:5.) INTRODUCTION;; month we turn attention to WilLast month we devoted alesliam Wordsworth (1770-1850), son to Robert Browning. This another great English poet whose 947 December 1970 writings and _ philosophy are beautifully harmonious with the ideals and doctrines of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. The following introduction to Wordsworth is reprinted from volume 1, Out of the Best Books, pp. 53-54: Occasionally in the world of literature there is a writer so gifted and so wise that he seems to speak with a voice of divine authority. Such a writer was William Wordsworth... Who, a century and a half ago, created poems of such simple beauty and such enduring truth that their appeal and greatness seem forever assured. If we Latter-day Saints take seriously the Lord's commandment to seek words of wisdom out of the best books [D&C 88:118; 109:14], we will do well to study the poems of Wordsworth, for in all literature there are few other first-quality poets who shaped so many religious and ethical truths into works of art. As Coleridge says, Wordsworth was "friend of the wise and teacher of the good," who, in Matthew Amold's words, came to a world of "doubts, disputes, distractions, fears" and brought stability through the "healing power" of his poetry. Judged by his best work... Wordsworth achieves distinction among the world's greatest poets. As Russell Noyes says "Wordsworth was the most truly original genius of his age and exerted a power over the poetic destinies of his century unequaled by any of his contemporanries.""' More than any other poet he stands as the great shaper of the whole romantic movement in western world literature and probably, all things considered, must be recognized as_ the greatest English poet between Milton and Browning. In an age of great poets, Wordworth stands highest of all. His poems are not so challengingly mystical as Blake's, nor so hauntingly musical as Coleridge's, nor so soaringly lyrical as Shelley's, nor so exuberantly variable as Byron's, nor so enchantingly euphonical as Keats', nor so stingingly satirical as Burns'—yet he is greater than all these, for more than any of them he spoke enduring truths in words of beauty, and that is the essence of great poetry. 948 From Wordsworth more than from any other poet we learn, as Ernest Bernbaum says, "the beauty and happiness of plain living and high thinking." SELECTIONS BY WORDSWORTH Since these introductory comments on Wordsworth, we have printed the following selections by Wordsworth in volumes 1 to 4 of Out of the Best Books: "Ode: Intimations of Immortality" (vol. 1, pp. 55-63) Excerpts from The Prelude (vol. 1, pp. 64-66 and vol. 2, pp. 360-64) "Character of the Happy Warrior" (vol. 1, pp. 67-70) "The World Is Too Much With Us" (vol. 1, pp. 229-30) "Michael" (vol. 1, pp. 405-19) "We Are Seven" (vol. 1, pp. 469-72) "My Heart Leaps Up" (vol. 2, pp. 360-64) "T Wandered Lonely As a Cloud" (vol. 3, pp. 4-7) "She Was a Phantom of Delight" (vol. 3, pp. 229-30) "Composed upon Westminster Bridge' (vol. 4, p. 169) (Note: Volume 5 contains no Wordsworth poems.) "THE WORLD IS TOO MUCH WITH US" We reprint here several of Wordsworth's short poems and brief discussions on them. First, the sonnet "The World Is Too Much With Us": The world is too much with us; late and soon, Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers; Little we see in nature that is ours; We have given our hearts away, a sordid boon! The sea that bares her bosom to the moon; The winds that will be howling at all hours, And are up-gathered now like sleeping flowers; For this, for everything, we are out of tune; It moves us not.—Great God! I'd rather be A Pagan suckled in a creed outwormn; So might I, standing on this pleasant lea, Have glimpses that would make me less forlorn; Have sight of Proteus rising from the sea; Or hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn. (Out of the Best Books, 1:229.) DISCUSSION Wordsworth was a champion of ethics and spirituality. He feared materialism and _ hated selfishness. In a mood of high indignation he wrote several memorable sonnets attacking selfishness and the pursuit of wrong goals. The best known and most powerful of these is the famous attack on worldly materialism quoted above. For Wordsworth knew, as few men have known, that most of the evils in the world stem from the minds of people—'"Much it grieved my heart to think what man _ has made of man" (from "Lines Written in Early Spring'")—and he likewise knew that the solution to these evils must come from within, from the very heart of people, a great outpouring of unselfish love: Love, now a universal birth, From heart to heart is stealing, From earth to man, from man to earth; —It is the hour of feeling. (From "To My Sister," Out of the Best Books, 1:230.) He knew that sometimes out of grief and difficulty comes wisdom—"a deep distress hath humanized my soul" (from "Elegiac Stanzas Suggested by a Picture of Peele Castle in a Storm'') —that to do evil is worse than to endure evil, that the greatest, most unselfish love is love of that Lesson Department which seems not to deserve love, that the sweetest moment of life is that filled with genuine repentance, and that the greatest source of strength is the inner resource of the immortal human spirit in harmony with God's teachings. And so in this sonnet Wordsworth cries out that he would rather be a pagan than a materialist who worships wordly possessions and misses the values of beauty and spirituality. Wordsworth would agree with Matthew Arnold, who said that "perfection consists in becoming something rather than in having something." "MY HEART LEAPS UP"' As a further example of Wordsworth's rich insights as a poet, we reprint a small lyric from volume 2: My heart leaps up when I behold A rainbow in the sky: So was it when my life began; So is it now I am a man; So be it when I shall grow old, Or let me die! The child is father of the man; And I could wish my days to be Bound each to each by natural piety. (Out of the Best Books, 2:360.) DISCUSSION Psychologists, teachers, and almost all people nowadays agree that the most important formative years in shaping adult personality and character are the very early years. In fact, some psychologists and educators insist that by the time a child is six or seven most of his adult qualities will have been determined. If this is true, or even partially true, then obviously parents must be as wise as possible in providing the 949 Ment during their Fair seed-time had children 's €arliest Years. Y soul, d I grew up Ostered e by be ty and b fear: Present-q y Psycholo uch favoured In my birthplace, and n; ] §lsts are W Saying, Poets and ie chet beloy Prophets ave been Saying for Senerations. «lp ed Vale to whi € Were 'ransplanted—the 21n up a Child in loose the Way he Should gohich was the Captive of another's toil ecame my prey; and When d Y what the child done exper len Ces, UNndistinguishable motj tensively Testated in Almost as s °rdsworth 's (8) lent as the turf they Masterpiece, The Nor less w Prelude, Which j; Oved we as Plundereis Where the and Mother-birg Childhood that i Had in high Contributed esn MY ©xperiences € many beauty and fear, the attitudes, hat might be Chosen Values, and person from this Ong, Complex Poem to illustrate this ality qualities of adulthood are fixed. Thus Point, we hose Wordsworth €calls, in Ichly Just one Musica] blank-vers lines, two 950 boyish pranks of snaring birds and robbing birds' nests, and then observes, 'though mean our object and inglorious, yet the end was not ignoble." The incidents themselves may have been "mean and inglorious," but the end—the shaping of a mature character— was not ignoble. As we read these passages and think of what they imply, we are deeply impressed with the importance of providing the right environment for children. Discussion Questions 1. Is there danger in providing children too little direction? 2. Is there danger in providing too much direction, or too much restriction? CONCLUSION As a concluding comment on Wordsworth, perhaps the most useful thing we might do is look at his work as a whole and try to identify those poems that represent his very best achievement as one of the world's great poets. Surely among his best poems are "Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey," a beautiful, meditative-descriptive ode Lesson Department of rich music and_ thought; "Michael," the finest of his narrative poems, telling with Old Testament dignity and simplicity the tragic story of an old man and his love for a son who betrays a father's trust; the "Intimations of Immortality" ode, the poem probably most familiar to Latter-day Saints, rich both in artistry and in thought; and a dozen or so sonnets. In the finest of his passages we find dignity of tone, sonority of phrase, and loftiness of thought such as we seldom find elsewhere —"high seriousness" as Matthew Arnold liked to call this combination of qualities. First and last, Wordsworth was a nature poet, describing the relationship between the inner world of man and the outer world of nature. But he was also deep-thinking in other matters, leading us in his poetry to extraordinary psychological, philosophical, and _religious insights that draw us, as The Prelude concludes, to "Faith in life endless, the sustaining thought of human Being, Eternity, and God." CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 7—Ideal Family Relationships Textbook: Out of the Best Books, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, October 1971 OBJECTIVE: To strengthen family relationships through becoming better acquainted with selections in the cultural arts that portray love, understanding, and other family ideals. 951 December 1970 ART "La Bonne Mére'' by Jean Honoré Fragonard (1732-1806), French, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Reproduction page 688, The Relief Society Magazine, September 1970. COMMENTARY Because of the problems, sorrows, and pain in life, we look forward with hope to the millennium, a time of peace and joy. We work toward ideals of perfection perhaps not completely attainable in this life but ultimately our goal. Consequently we should govern our relationships with family and each other in such a way that we come as near to this goal as possible here and now. There are times, however, when the trials seem insurmountable and we are tempted to look 'for an escape. We dream. We indulge in flights of fancy which may lead to overindulgence. When this happens, progress toward our ideal is thwarted. During the time of the French Revolution there were realists who attempted to isolate and solve the problems. There were also those who sought escape in flights of fancy and overindulgence to avoid the terrible reality of the time. The aristocracy in their court life developed a blindness to reality, as was evidenced by the dalliance, gaiety, sentimentality, and sham which became the surface covering for the corruptness within. Art reflects the society from which it springs. Daumier, the social realist described in an earlier lesson, ''Advice to a Young Artist,"' portrayed the social upheaval and the problems of the comman man, whereas Jean Honoré Fragonard painted the veneer, the facade, of the upper classes. At thirty-seven Fragonard married and the influence of this event upon his life is reflected in the changed nature of his subjects. Rather than the frivolity of the courts, he turned more toward the interests of his home and family. ''La Bonne Mére"' (''The Good Mother'') is an example of this change. Study it carefully—a great subject painted by a master with the brush. Although the decorative quality, the idyllic setting, the sweetness, the prettiness seem to supersede the grand theme of the title, it is a great painting because it makes an aesthetically satisfying, well-executed, and truthful statement about the times. Perhaps what we need most is a clarity of vision, or discernment to recognize that which is real and that which is of true worth. Ideal relationships, family or otherwise, are based on sound practical principles which, if practiced, move us toward our goal of perfection. INTRODUCTION:; focus upon selections that illusThe family group is the heart of the gospel. Throughout the five volumes of Out of the Best Books, selections are printed which focus upon ideal family relationships showing love, understanding, trust, and other family ideals. This lesson will review these selections (differing from lesson number one that focused upon selections to be read in family groups for family entertainment and study) and will 952 trate the family as an _ ideal, loving group. Again the role of the woman as wife and mother will be emphasized. In reviewing the material for this lesson, it seems desirable to identify several different types of selections ranging from those that dramatize problems within the family group to those that openly portray ideal family relationships. Class leaders should emphasize the positive examples but may want also to draw attention to the negative ones, because we often learn as much through analyzing problems as through stressing ideal relationships. PROBLEMS IN MARRIAGE AND FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS Selections in the volumes that particularly explore problems in marriage and family relationships include the following: "Birthday Party" by Katharing Brush (vol. 1, pp. 176-78) "Marriage 4 la Mode" by Katherine Mansfield (vol. 2, pp. 62-73) "Too Early Spring" by Stephen Vincent Benét (vol. 2, pp. 319-33) "Home Bunial" by Robert Frost (vol. 2, pp. 334-39) "Dora" by Alfred Lord Tennyson (vol. 3, pp. 161-66) "Clay" by James Joyce (vol. 3, pp. 167- 78) Four of the selections in this list are concerned with misunderstandings or problems in communication within the family— between husband and wife in "Birthday Party" and "Home Burial" and between parents and children in "Too Early Spring" and "Dora." The other two selections, the brilliant "Marriage a la Mode" and the equally brilliant "Clay," depict distorted values and callousness in human relations that destroy family unity, love, and understanding. All six selections give valuable insights into problems that can weaken the family. Another group of selections touches on family problems and illustrates family ideals. These include "Michael" by William Wordsworth (vol. 1, pp. 405-19) which shows the depth ofa father's love in spite of the grief of a son's Lesson Department withdrawal; "Sixteen" by Jessamyn West (vol. 2, pp. 24-32) which shows how a young girl's selfishness starts to change to unselfishness through the death of her grandfather; '""The Leader of the People" by John Steinbeck (vol. 2, pp. 166-82) which dramatizes certain problems in family understanding and communication but also shows the love that can bind a family together in spite of these problems; and the parable of the Prodigal Son (vol. 3, pp. 200-3), which shows a father's love and understanding reaching out to embrace two very different sons. Again, all four of these selections give valuable insights into family relationships. Questions for Discussion 1. What is the value of knowing the negative side of a family situation? A third group of selections is primarily love stories and poems. These include: "The Woman" by Zona Gale (vol. 2, pp. 238-41) "A Garland of Love Lyrics" (vol. 3, pp. 219-38) "Stella's Birthday" by Jonathan Swift (vol. 4, pp. 160-61) "Love Poem" by John Frederick Nims (vol. 4, pp. 162-63) Mark Twain's Family Letters (vol. 5, pp. 93-100) These selections portray the power of love in marriage, not only as a source of happiness in the early years but also as an anchor of strength in the later years. IDEAL FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS The fourth group, which relates most completely to this lesson, portrays families inter- 953 December 1970 reacting in rich, meaningful ways. The families are not without problems, but love, trust, and understanding are rich enough to triumph over the problems and, equally important, help solve them. The selections in_ this group are: **A Christmas Carol" by Charles Dickens (vol. 1, pp. 246-74) "The Sick Child" by Colette (vol. 1, pp. 420-39) "My Little Boy" by Carl Ewald (vol. 2, pp. 8-23) "Mother" by Kathleen Norris (vol. 2, pp. 133-51) "The Happy Journey to Trenton and Camden" by Thornton Wilder (vol. 3, pp. 20-34) "The Cotter's Saturday Night" by Robert Burns (vol. 3, pp. 189-99) "The Secret Heart" by Robert P. Tristram Coffin (vol. 5, pp. 77-78) "Another Apmnil" by Jesse Stuart (vol. 5, pp. 79-86) "Neighbor Rosicky" by Willa Cather (vol. 5, pp. 101-28) "Mother of Comptons" by Milton S. Mayer (vol. 5, pp. 198-203) "A Christmas Carol" is a wonderful old classic showing a family bound together by love and joy in spite of poverty—with the Christmas spirit finally _ permeating even the heart of old Scrooge. "The Sick Child" is a delicate, lovely story describing a little boy hovering near death through weeks of burning fever and a mother who, with protective love, waits anxiously for the moment of crisis to come and pass. "My Little Boy," translated from the Danish, is a delightsome dramatization showing how a wise father tenderly guides his son in growing up, an experience which helps them all—father, mother, and little son—to develop. "Mother" is the description of another wise parent who hum- 954 bly, yet gladly and realistically, accepts and triumphs in her responsibilities of motherhood. "The Happy Journey to Trenton and Camden"' describes still another mother (this time _ portrayed in a drama), showing how she rises to the challenge of being the wise mother for her rambunctious family. "The Cotter's Saturday Night," a poem, describes a humble working family in their evening activities—a sort of old-fashioned family home evening, with the entire family bound together by love and religion in an atmosphere of informality but also firm parental control. "The Secret Heart" is a delicate modern poem portraying a father's love for his sleeping son, giving the son a sense of security that will sustain him all the rest of his life. "Another April' is a modern short story showing how a young mother fulfills her role both as a mother to her little boy and as a daughter to her aging father. "Neighbor Rosicky," one of the greatest of the stories in the five volumes, is a beautiful portrayal of a husband and wife united in a love so deep that it extends beyond each other to embrace and influence not only children but also neighbors and everyone who comes within reach of the couple's influence. Finally "Mother of Comptons" is a portrait of an extraordinary mother who creates an ideal home atmosphere that propels her children on their separate roads to greatness. Any one of these selections would be excellent as the heart of this lesson, and readers are encouraged to reread as many of "MY LITTLE Boy" Tint here Just one epiPonders on Nancia] Status. When he at lot of boy's breast Lesson Department fourteen Others: "So that's 80ne," J Say, My accent betrays 4 certain Melan- "Father. --ISit long til] next Sunday?" "Very long, my boy; ever so many © 80 over the Way and look at the top in the Shop-window It is really a December 1970 keeping with our means. We make the shopkeeper take a solemn oath to keep the top for us till Sunday morning, even if boys should come and bid him much higher sums for it. On Sunday morning, we are on the spot before nine o'clock and acquire our treasure with trembling hands. And we play with it all day and sleep with it at night, until, on Wednesday morning, it disappears without a trace, after the nasty manner which tops have. When the turn comes of the next cent, something remarkable happens. There is a boy in the courtyard who has a skipping-rope and my little boy, therefore, wants to have a skippingrope too. But this is a difficult matter. Careful inquiries establish the fact that a skipping-rope of the sort used by the upper classes is nowhere to be obtained for less than five cents. The business is discussed as early as Saturday: "It's the simplest thing in the world," I say. "You must not spend your cent tomorrow. Next Sunday you must do the same and the next and the next. On the Sunday after that, you will have saved your five cents and can buy your skipping-rope at once." "When shall I get my skipping-rope then?" "In five Sundays from now." He says nothing, but I can see that he does not think my idea very brilliant. In the course of the day, he derives, from sources unknown to me, an acquaintance with financial circumstances which he serves up to me on Sunday moming in the following words: "Father, you must lend me five cents for the skipping-rope. I'll give you forty cents back." He stands close to me, very red in the face and quite confused. I perceive that he is ripe for falling into the claws of the usurers: "T don't do that sort of business, my boy," I say. "It wouldn't do you any good either. And you're not even in a position to do it, for you have only thirteen cents, as you know." He collapses like one whose last hope is gone. "Let us just see," I say. And we go to our drawer and stare at it long and deeply. '""'We might perhaps manage it this way, 956 that I give you five cents now. And then I should have your cent and the next four cents." He interrupts me with a loud shout. I take out my purse, give him five cents and take one cent out of the drawer. "That won't be pleasant next Sunday," I say, "and the next and the next and the next." But the thoughtless youth is gone. Of course, the installments of his debt are paid off with great ceremony. He is always on the spot himself when the drawer is opened and sees how the requisite cent is removed and finds its way into my pocket instead of his. The first time, all goes well. It is simply an amusing thing that I should have the cent; and the skipping-rope is still fresh in his memory, because of the pangs which he underwent before its purchase. Next Sunday, already the thing is not quite so pleasant and, when the fourth installment falls due, my little boy's face looks very gloomy: "Is anything the matter?" I ask. "TI should so much like a stick of chocolate," he says, without looking at me. "Is that all? You can get one in a fortnight. By that time, you will have paid for the skipping-rope and the cent will be your own again." "IT should so much like to have the stick of chocolate now." Of course, I am full of the sincerest compassion, but I can't help it. What's gone is gone. We saw it with our own eyes and we know exactly where it has gone to. And, that Sunday moming, we. Part in a dejected mood. Later in the day, however, I find him standing over the drawer with raised eyebrows and pursed-up mouth. I sit down quietly and wait. And I do not have to wait long before I learn that his development as an economist is taking quite its normal course. "Father, suppose we moved the cent now from here into this Sunday's place and I took it and bought the chocolatestick." "Why, then you won't have your cent for the other Sunday." "TI don't mind that, Father." We talk about it, and then we do it. And, with that, as a matter of course, we enter upon the most reckless speculations. The very next Sunday, he is clever enough to take the furthest cent, which lies just before the summer holidays. He pursues the path of vice without a scruple, until, at last, the blow falls and five long Sundays come in a row without the least chance of a cent. Where should they come from? They were there. We know that. They are gone. We have spent them ourselves. But during those drab days of poverty, we sit every morning over the empty drawer and talk long and profoundly about that painful Phenomenon, which is so simple and so easy to understand and which one must needs make the Lesson Department And we hope and trust that our experience will do us good, when after our trip, we start a new set of cents. (Excerpt from "My Little Boy," by Carl Ewald, Out of the Best Books, vol. 2, Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1966], pp. 13-16.) Questions for Discussion 1. Did the father handle the situation wisely? 2. Specifically, what dangers and lessons in economics for all of us are pointed up in this little sketch? Best of. E The Eighth CULTURAL REFINEMENT LESSON ATTENTION: English-speaking Southern Hemisphere Stakes and Missions we XY a) DISCOURSE ON LEAVES = mY Consider the leaves of summer cAI Which are really of autumn a g~Y As they silently drift to lie Cea Frozen in a pool of light To become winter leaves That once were leaves of Spring green, fragile At a rough touch, snapping Under the quick takeoff Of a bird with black feathers / To fall in the light pool Beside other winters, Now brown-soaked and sunk In new wells of water, Fodder for trailing roots of old trees. Renewing again spring greens, Now summer-turned gold to September, A whirling dervish of scarlet Overtones amid eternal soft Cries of falling leaves. —Grayce E. Cutler 957 December 1970 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US ROSE PARADE TOUR VIA SAN FRANCISCO VIA SAN DIEGO Dec. 26—Jan 2 SOUTHERN TEMPLE TOURS March 14-20 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 BEST WISHES FOR A iby -— Prison *K a (oe 4 DESERET. [REws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 £ PANY '*Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos _ Instruments And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Happiness is total plectric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 958 Wayfaring Man of Grief Barborka and Rober? Peterson 959 99 Mrs. Emma Johanna Ottesen Halverson 9 1 Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Lenora Ann Hudson Sheffield Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada Q7 Mrs. Celinda Twitchell Olson Portland, Oregon 96 Mrs. Elizabeth Walker Stott Portland, Oregon Miss Florence Brown Salt Lake City, Utah ays Mrs. Susanna Clark Westman Long Beach, California Mrs. Minnie Chatterley Harris Lehi, Utah 94 Mrs. Janetta Caroline Johnson Nelson a3 92 960 Murray, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Boehi Peck Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Rose H. Peay Spanish Fork, Utah. Mrs. Clara Parkes Jones Taylorsville, Utah Mrs. Effie Hunter Simpson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Ann Compton Hess Long Beach, California Mrs. Margaret Alzadie Marquess Holt Winslow, Arizona Mrs. Mary Ann Boreham Nelson Lewis Rigby, Idaho Mrs. Nellie Thomas Boyce Humpherys Groveland, Idaho Mrs. Sarah Bullock Holt Raymond, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Isabell Sutherland Harrison Rigby, Idaho Mrs. Edna May Irvine Bell, California Mrs. Florence Ellen Dunford Newton Hunter, Utah Miss Mary Penman Ogden, Utah Mrs. Caroline Hanson Anderson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Agnes Turner Forman Field Jones Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Eliza Coon Thomas Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Pearl Bullen Harrison Logan, Utah Mrs. Bell Arnett Sheets St. Augustine, Florida Mrs. Lucinda Maud Van Leuven Buxton Driggs, Idaho Mrs. Della Shaw Chandler North Ogden, Utah 90 Mrs. Fanny White Morgan Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Eliza Hyer Kemp Dayton, Idaho Mrs. Mary Esplin Chamberlain Orderville, Utah Mrs. Rebecca Jane Lilly Morton, Pennsylvania Mrs. Rosa May Byington Simpson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Annie Isgreen Bevan Sacramento, California Miss Anna Rasmussen Cedar City, Utah Mrs. Mary Slaughter Stephenson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nora Louisa Buchanan Pearson Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Christina Alvina Thompson Davis + Grand Junction, Colorado Mrs. Maud Stahr Brown North Ogden, Utah Mrs. Emily Rasmusson Collet Coutts, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Thankful Halsey Gardner Grigg Vale, Oregon Mrs. Violet Susanna Syrett Anderson Kingston, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Schwarz Jones Chandler, Arizona Mrs. Jenettie Stewart Wood Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Gertrude Helena Nelson Eliason | Moroni, Utah Mrs. Verna Young Smith Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Helen Bryce Merrill Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Clarissa Clark Isaacson Salt Lake City, Utah 1. REMEMBERING THE McKAYS John J Stewart A reading experience about a harmonious marriage that will not soon be forgotten. You'll chuckle at their sense of humor, feel the warmth of their kindness and courtesy toward each other and treasure their sense of values. 2. JOSEPH SMITH, PROPHET OF THE RESTORATION Leon Hartshorn In this book the prophet becomes a living human being with which the reader may get the feeling of walking and talking with the man. 3. INSPIRATIONAL TRUTHS From The Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Written by an author of past Relief Society lessons. Specific scriptures from the Doctrine and Covenants are each illustrated with a story from life which illustrates the application of that scripture in human experience. 4. MORMON ESSAYS D. James Cannon Each week for a year, the author practiced one of 52 principles selected from the scriptures. This interesting book tells the results of this concentrated application of the gospel of Christ. $2.95 $3.95 $3.95 $3.95 Salt Lake — Cottonwood Mall Valley Fair Mall Orange, California ORDER FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 OR 777 So. Main, Town & Country, Orange, Calif. 92668 Please send me items circled: 1 2 3 4 Total cost $ --: sssseeeeertee This must include 29¢ handling and postage for the first book ordered and 15c for each additional book ordered in the same shipment. Also include 4%% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax from California residents ordering from Orange. Paid by: [1] check, (_] money order, or ([) charged established account. Tia. Pith apna anat f=° Has cbemenyDAD soos scvasseressnnets

