					M. E. LITTLE.

[Column 3]
	FOUNTAIN GREEN Sept. 5th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We the sisters of the Relief Society of
Fountain Green feel it our duty as well as a
pleasure to let you know of our prosperity
here as a Society. We are happy to inform
you that we are striving to do good to each
other by meeting together and strengthen-
ing each other in the faith of the Gospel,
pleading the cause of the poor and contribu-
ting of our limited means to afford them
some sustenance. The Society has been or-
ganized six years under the presidency of
Mrs. Polly Ann Johnson who has gained so
far the confidence of the sisters and has al-
so had the honor of establishing the Young
Ladies Society which is beginning to im-
prove, and we hope will gain strength con-
tinually. The young girls are employed in
sewing, quilting, and receiving instructions
necessary for their advancement in the good
cause; some of them are taking encourage-
ment and begin to arise and express their
feelings in their meetings, and realize the
benefits of being born of parents who are
in the Gospel and are trying to teach them
the plan of salvation. Quite a number of
the sisters have renewed their cove-
nants by baptism and almost every week
some few are added to their number. Al-
though we have not been visited here by
Sister Snow and company, yet the sisters
have been benefitted by their visits else-
where, as some of them have heard
their instructions and imparted them to oth-
ers. We are instructed by Sister Johnson
to carry out their counsel and increase in
home manufacture, and secure straw for
hats &c.
	We earnestly desire that the blessings of
our Heavenly Father may rest upon our ef-
forts to do good in this society, and extend
the same wish to all who are trying to do
good in every society throughout the Terri-
tory.
	We subscribe ourselves your sisters in the
New and Everlasting Covenant.
		POLLY ANN JOHNSON Pres't.
				    MARY JUKES Sec'y.	
		TREASURERS REPORT.
Remaining in the treasury in April
and loaned for Emigration, at in-
terest						$ 54 00
Captial Stock in Co-op Store		109 50
Dividends drawn and on hand	10 95
Donations received				22 54
Given to the poor				7 18
Paid for calico for quilts			4 60
Cash in the Treasury			8 40
Due bills on Co-op store on hand	4 65
		MARIA NIELSON, Treasurer.


HOW TO STOP A PAPER.--Do not take
your paper to the postmaster and tell him
to send it back; in nine cases out of ten you
will fail to stop it in this way. Do not at-
tempt to stop it yourself, and write on the
wrapper to discontinue; this is against the
law, and lays you open to fine. Before your
subscription expires send to the editor a
postal card, saying your subscription expires
on such a date; please discontinue at that
time. Sign your name, also the town and
State where your paper is sent, in full. If the
paper has been sent two weeks or more over 
the time for which it was paid, don't send a
postal card it will do no good; rather write
a letter and inclose what is due for arrear-
ages, always allowing that one number will
be sent before the letter reaches the pub-
lisher and his list is corrected. By observ-
ing these simple rules your requests will al-
ways be promptly attended to.--Printers'
circular.


