PEN AND SCISSORS.

	BABIES are described as coupons attached
to the bonds of matrimony.
	WHEN does a lawyer work like a horse?
When he draws a conveyance.
	WHY don't Sweden have to send abroad
for cattle? Because she keeps her Stock-
holm.
	MRS. Gubbins says her husband is like a
tallow candle; he always will smoke when
he goes out.
	PRECOCIOUS boy munching the fruit of 
the date tree: "Mamma, if I eat dates
enough will I grow up to be an almanac?
	"Do you like codfish balls, Mr. Wiggins?"
Mr. Wiggins, hesitatingly, "I really don't 
know; I don't recollect attending one."
	WHEN may the lawyer's clerk be said to 
have seen much of the world?—When he
has witnessed many deeds.
	PRIDE is an extravagant opinion of our 
own worthiness; vanity is an inordinate
desire that others should share that opinion.
—[Cummings.


ANYTHING Midas touched was turned to
gold. In these days, touch a man with gold
and he'll turn into anything.
	"DOCTOR," asked a convalescent, "can I
eat a bit of pork-chop or bacon this morn-
ing?" "Hardly," replied the Medicus, "to
eat the chop would be rash, and the bacon
rasher"
	LYING is like trying to hide in a fog; if
you move about, you are in danger of bump-
ing your head against the truth; as soon as
the fog blows up, you are gone anyhow.
	A rude fellow once told Barnum that he
had never exhibited anything that was not
a bare faced humbug. "Yes, I have," said
Barnum; "the bearded lady wasn't bare-
faced."
	"WHAT do you know of the character of
this man?" was asked of a witness in Court
the other day. "I know it to be unbleach-
able, your honor," replied the witness with 
much emphasis.
	THERE is a village in New Hampshire
that has produced twenty-six editors, and it
was in allusion to this circumstance that a
pious old deacon there remarked, "Yes,
there were twenty-six on 'em, but as they've
all left town, I reckon the Lord won't lay it
up agin us."
	A young and beautiful widow was about
to marry a rich old widower. Her friends
wished to know what she wanted to marry
him for. She replied, "For pure love. I
love the ground" (meaning the estate, prob-
ably) "on which he walks."
	SIDNEY Smith had a maid who used to
boil the eggs very well by her master's
watch; but one day he could not lend it to
her, because it was under repair, so she took
the time from the kitchen clock, and the
eggs came up nearly raw. "Why didn't
you take three minutes from the clock as
you do from the watch, Mary?" "Well,
Sir," replied Mary, "I thought that would
be too much, as the hands are so much
larger."
	THE Boston "Post" says there are only
41,000 lawyers in this country. The Detroit
"Free Press" exclaims that it thought there
were 1,500,000, with Texas to hear from.


