I WILL TRY.

	What a little word I'll try is, but what a
comprehensive meaning it conveys; if we
would always keep this before our minds,
we would accomplish many things that we
do not otherwise. If we try perseveringly
we are almost sure to succeed; there are
many times things placed before us,
which seem hard to do, when if we
will go to work with a trying spirit and
a prayerful heart to God and ask him to help
us accomplish our duty we will be sure to
conquer. If there is anything for us to
learn and we think our task is hard, we
must put away all doubts and try with a
persevering spirit until we have accomplish-
ed our purpose; if we are always found try-
ing to do all things that are required of us
in the kingdom of God, we will never fal-
ter. If we find it hard to keep any cove-
nant we have made, we must be humble
and ask the Lord to help us, and if we do
this with a humble heart we will have new
vigor and feel astonished to see the differ-
ence in placing confidence in God to guide
us aright. "God's ways are not our ways,"
but we ought always to be willing to bring
ourselves into subjection to His will and we
will come off conquerors at the last if we
wait with patience.
	It is an old saying but a true one, that "the
Lord will help those who help themselves,"
then if we want a complete salvation in the
kingdom of God, let us try to do all things
in compliance with His will, for we will
never get what we do not work for. If we
work for the blessings of God, we will get
them for God is just and He will give us what
we merit, can we ask for any more? No, 
not with a clear conscience; then it behooves
us to keep watch for the kingdom of God
and travel with it, for it is hard to catch up
if we get behind, and if we get too far back
we will never attain the same position for
the kingdom of God is growing and will not 
wait for us, and those who persevere will
leave us behind them. Let onward be our
motto, living uprightly before our Heavenly
Father, doing our duty as His children and
setting an example before the world; that it
can be said of us, the Latter-day Saints are
true faithful christians, walking in the path
the Saviour walked in. Let us try to live
our religion and do all things with a cheer-
ful spirit and we will feel happy and carry a
light heart.	
