SPLINTERS.
PERSONAL.
The Prince of Wales will leave Italy Oct.
16th, for India, and will visit Athens on the 
way......King Louis the Second of Bravaria
proposes to celebrate by a general amnesty
the dedication of the monument erected in 
memory of his father......Boucicault is en-
gaged to appear in Philadelphia during the 
Centennial in the "Shaughraun"......General
Butler delivered a lecture on finance and 
currency before the Board of Trade, N. Y.,
Oct. 14......King Kalakaua is reported quite
ill in Honolulu......Mr. Robert Dale Owen is 
gradually improving in health......Tennyson
with his family, are going to make a tour of
the continent......Prof. Leo, of Berlin, has
been engaged for several years preparing a 
new variorum edition of Shakespeare......
Gladstone says he will never resume the 
Liberal leadership.
FOREIGN.
Kossuth was recently defeated as candi-
date for the diet of Hungary......The Egyp-
tian government is making preparations to 
represent the products of their country at
the Centennial......There has been a hea-
vy typhoon at Chee-Foo, China, recent-
ly, which wrecked three European and 
many Chinese vessels several lives were
lost......The excise returns of Great Britain
show that $600,000,000 are annually spent in 
alcohol etc., and more than one-half of it by
the laboring classes......It is reported that an
offensive and defensive treaty has been con-
cluded between China and Burmah......The
military affairs of Cuba are almost at a 
standstill, the recent severe storms there be-
ing one of the causes......M. Anspach, chief
magistrate of Brussels, is gradually trans-
forming that city into a miniature Paris; he
has offered the architect who will build the 
finest house in the Boulevard, a prize of 
1,000 francs......The Russian climate is said
to be materially changing on account of the 
destruction of the large forests--being cold-
er in winter and dryer in summer......It is 
reported that the cholera is subsiding in Sy-
ria; there has been nearly 300 deaths in one
week......Berlin has 140,000 working women 
whose lot is similar to that of working wo-
men all over the world.
GENERAL.
The new Jersey coast this year has yield-
ed a crop of oysters estimated at 4,000,000
bushels......The eighty-one ton gun, com-
pleted at Woolwich, Eng., has been tested
recently; it is for the iron-clad Inflexible,
and the charge consisted of 250 lbs. powder,
1,300 lbs. shot......The house formerly in-
habited by Dante, in Florence, has been 
purchased by that city, and will be fitted up
in the style of the 14th century......A bust
of President Lincoln has been ordered for
the public library at Springfield, Ill......It is 
said that Chicago will have the new-mint
......All the money required for the women's
exhibition building at the Centennial, $28,
000, has been raised.....3,000 persons at-
tended the Operatives Mass Meeting in Fall
river recently......Boston University School
of Theology has just received an accession
of about fifty new students from twenty dif-
ferent colleges.


