		S. A. GRAHAM.

S. L. City.


ST. GEORGE, Sept. 19th, 1875.
SISTER E. R. SNOW:
Minutes of the Annual Meeting of the St.
George Relief Society held August 31st, 18-
75.  After the usual exercises a report of 
the business of the past year was read as
follows:  Donations received by the visit-
ing Teachers, consisting mostly of clothing
and remnants $85,00, cash, $6,55; disbursed
to the destitute in medicine, groceries and 
clothing for the living, and burial for the 
dead 40, 75; $100 has been donated to the 
Temple building at this place, being mostly
orders on the Tithing Office received from
brethren as payment for socks bedding and 
work done. 57 pairs of socks, have also 
been knitted for the same purpose.
Last year, $100 was also donated, mostly
in clothing and bedding for laborers on the 
Temple.
On hand now in the Treasury, in goods
and manufactured articles $135.  In Capi-
tal Stock in the Rio Virgin M. Co, $150;
in capital stock in the St. George Branch of


the United Order, for hats made and fur-
nished $23,78; credit on the books of the St.
George Tithing Office $75,75; amount due
the Society for goods sold $50; donated to
Indians in clothing, 75,75. We have also
one share in the co-operative store.
	The reading was followed by Br. Snow,
advising the Teachers to seek earnestly the
wants of the needy and sick lest some one
might suffer, and urged the President and
her Counselors to empty the treasury if
need be, and trust to our Heavenly Father
for more. He was followed by A. M. Jack-
son on the same subject, when President
Snow proposed the calling of Home Mission-
aries from the members of the Society who
should hold meetings in St. George and vi-
cinity.
	The following Sisters were named and
voted as Home Missionaries. Anna L.
Ivins, Hannah E. Crosby, Minerva Snow,
Elizabeth Beatty, Elizabeth Whitmore, Liz-
zie Calkins, Marietta Calkins, Annie Wood-
bury Hannah Nixon, Sarah A. Church and
Matilda C. McArthur.
	Roll called and Benediction by Jesse W.
Crosby.
	I will add that our roll numbers two hun-
dred and fourteen members; the average
number in attendance being from thirty to
fifty in summer, more in winter.
	I remain your Sister in the Gospel,
				CAROLINE A. JACKSON
			Sec'y St. George R. Society.
	P. S.--At our meeting of September 17th,
most of the Home Missionaries were pres-
ent and bore faithful testimonies to the truth
of the work in which we are engaged as
Latter-day Saints, and expressed gratitude
for the organization of these meetings.
	The following officers were sustained:
Anna L. Ivins, President; Hannah E. Cros-
by, First Counselor; Minerva Snow, Second
Counselor; Hannah G. Perkins, President
of Teachers; Sarah A. Church, Treasurer;
Caroline A. Jackson, Secretary.
							C. A. J.


