WHO IS MOST TO BLAME?

 Is woman usually a seducer? A few
years ago I sought to better my fortunes by
going West to teach in the public schools
of Illinois. I made the long journey en-
tirely alone, was not molested in any way,
and my journey  was most pleasant. I
often chatted with elderly gentlemen about
the change of cars, time of trains, etc. I 
remained in the West about two years, and
then again started homeward alone. One 
day I was sitting in the waiting-room of the
great Union depot of Indianapolis, waiting
for an Eastern bound train which was late.
I had my note-book before me and was
carelessly jotting down thoughts as they oc-
curred. Presently a portly, distinguished-
looking man, somewhat past the prime of
life and elegantly dressed, entered and took 
a seat near me; a map of my proposed route,
which the agent had given me, lay on the
seat beside me.
 "Can I see your map, Miss?" was his first
question.
 I looked up in his face as I handed it to
him. I am no dull student of human na-
ture, and there was an expression in his
eyes which I disliked. But thinking there
could be no harm in talking for a while with
a man as old as my father, whom the next
train would bear from my sight forever, I 
civilly answered his questions as to where I
had been and which way I was going.
 "Do you like teaching?" he asked, after
a while.
 I told him that I did not like it, on ac-
count of the ignorance and prejudices of the
people as to the true method of imparting
instruction.
 "Of course," he asserted, "it must be a 
most wearisome business. Now, how would
you like a position in one of the depart-
ments. Post Office, Treasury, or Agricultur-
al? I am a member of Congress. Just
jot down my name in your book, Hon. W.
-C.-"
 I will not write the name in full for the
sake of the sweet daughter whose pictured
face I once saw. If any man had dared to 
make to that daughter the proposals which
that miscreant afterwards made to me, the
father would have promptly shot him down
on the street. But to return to my story.
I told him I would very much like a posi-
tion in one of the "departments," and if he
would secure it for me I should be under
lasting obligations to him.
	"I should like to have you down in Wash-
ington," he said, jocosely. "My wife and
daughter are absent in Europe; the latter is
finishing her education in Heidelburg."
	So I gave him my address, and we parted 
on very good terms. Shortly after my re-
turn home, he opened a cautious correspond-
ence with me in reference to the situation
in one of "the departments." The Agricul-
tural Bureau seemed to be the department
over which he had the most influence. Af-
ter a certain amount of correspondence he 
seemed to think the victim was ready to fall
into his hands, and he wrote in this wise:
	"I have secured you a light, remunera-
tive position, sorting seeds, etc. You need
not trouble yourself about board and cloth-
ing and such, for I am going to attend to all
that myself. I have taken the dearest lit-
tle cottage just out of the city, and there we
will enjoy each other's society all alone. I 
have arranged to keep my family in Europe
for another year. Next summer we will
spend at my cottage at Long Branch. You
will figure there as my niece. Of course,
your position in the department is a mere
"ruse" to keep down suspicion and save your
name."
	The Honorable Congressman has enjoyed
his cottage alone, or has had a dozen differ-
ent mistresses in it for aught I know to the
contrary.
	Now this is a true story. Suppose that I
had been the foolish and inexperienced girl
that he took me for? What would have
been my fate had I yielded to his tempta-
tion? Might it not have been the Fair
tradegy over again? About the time of his
desertion and the restitution of all things,
what wonder if he had departed suddenly
with a bullet through his cruel heart or
wicked brain?
	Thousands of men in their secret souls to-
day believe that woman was created to be
the slave of their passions, the creature of 
their pleasures. And such men fear to place
the ballot in her hands, for fear that a check
may be given to their debauchery and in-
temperance.--Baltimore Correspondent of
Woman's Journal.


For the EXPONENT.
