THE RELIGION WE WANT.
	We want a religion that bears heavily, not
only on the "exceeding sinfulness of sin,"
but on the exceeding rascality of lying and
stealing; a religion that banishes small mea-
sures from the counters, pebbles from the
cotton bags, clay from the paper, sand from
the sugar, hiccory from the coffee, alum
from the bread, and water from the milk 
cans. The religion that is to save the world
will not put all the big strawberries at the top
and all the little ones at the bottom. It
will not make one-half a pair of shoes of
good leather, so that the first shall redound
to the maker's credit and the second to his 
cash. It will not put Jouvin's stamp on Jen-
kin's kid gloves; nor make Paris bonnets
in the back room of a Boston millinery
shop; nor let a piece of velvet that pro-
fesses to measure twelve yards, come to an 
untimely end in the tenth. It does not put
bricks at five dollars a thousand into chim-
neys it contracts to build with seven dollar
material; nor smuggle white pine into floors 
that have paid for hard pine; nor leave
yawning cracks in closets where boards ought
to join. The religion that is going to sanc-
tify the world, pays its debts. It does not
consider that forty cents returned from one
hundred cents given, is according to the 
gospel, though it may be according to law. 
It looks on a man who has failed in trade,
and who continues to live in luxury, as a 
thief.-Ex.


A statement showing the estimated an-
nual production of gold and silver in the 
twenty-five years from 1749 to 1873, has
been prepared by the bureau of statistics.
The annual average production of gold, ac-
cording to this statement, is $50,300,000,
and that of silver for the fifteen years from 
1859 to 1873, $13,000,000. The production
of gold has, with the exception of one year,
been annually increasing since 1856, and the
production of silver has, with the exception
of one year, been increasing since 1859, the 
production of gold and silver in 1873 being
almost the same.


