THE WORLD IS WHAT WE MAKE IT.

 I wonder if we fully realize this all im-
portant fact. Have we ever paused in our
wild career long enough to even think
about it?
We sometimes murmur at Fate because
we are not as wealthy, or as talented, or as
beautiful, as some one else, forgetting for
the moment, that God, in His infinite mercy
and all wise providence; has created us as
we are for some wise purpose.  As for 
wealth, though we consider it a blessing, it
is transitory and liable to "take unto itself
wings, and fly away;" therefore, we ought
not to value that too highly.
Beauty, of the outward form and face
merely, is also transitory.  Yet there is a
higher, nobler beauty, that emanates from
a meek spirit and a kind and tender heart,
that will last as long as life itself, only be-
coming more pure and chaste as we grow
older, and coming forth from the trials it is
called to undergo even fairer and more pure
than when it started out in its infancy.
Of course it is conceded that our success
in life depends, to a great extent, on the


higher talents we possess, but surely we
ought not to censure Dame Nature, or ac-
cuse her of partiality, in not endowing
us with the higher talents, while those we 
already possess lie dormant, growing rusty
with neglect.
Besides, who knows of the undeveloped
genius in our possession, only waiting for 
something to transpire that will cause it to 
arouse from its lethargy and burst with re-
splendent brightness on an unsuspecting,
incredulous world!  We may approach, even
surpass, the bright star we have held up be-
fore our eyes as a model of perfection.
It behooves us then, my young friends, to
exercise our latent energies; for though we
may fall far short of the mark we have set
before ourselves, it were better than to at-
tempt nothing and accomplish nothing.  If 
we wish for friends we may have them by 
manifesting a gentle spirit, and being kind
and good.  If we desire wealth we may ac-
quire that by laboring for it, though it is
doubtful if we keep it long, as is proven by
every day examples in real life.  People
who have spent strength and every energy
of body and soul to amass a great fortune,
but after they have acquired the glittering
god they worship, have found their trea-
sures, alas for their happiness! swept from
them by one quick turn of the wheel of for-
tune, and they are left to die in poverty and
obscurity. Thus we see that wealth does
not constitnte happiness.
Education, I am happy to say, is, in this 
glorious Republic, free to all.  We can have
it, not merely for the asking, but by aiming
for it, and working for it.
Furthermore, I will guarantee to all, the 
love and respect of numerous friends, if
they will follow my plan, which is, form
your basis on true principles, place your aim
in life high, and work for a purpose.
