NOTES AND NEWS.

 THE DISTINGUISHED French author and
journalist, Edmond About, it is expected,
will come to America next year to write
Centennial letters for several of the leading
French journals.

 TENNYSON'S QUEEN Mary has been dra-
matized and was performed on the stage for
the first time on the 4th inst., at the Arch
Street theatre, Philadelphia. The "Times"
does not speak very encouragingly of its fu-
ture, says it is not an acting play and will
not be likely to run more than a week.

 THE WOMAN Suffrage Club, South Bos-
ton, held a meeting Monday evening Oct.
4th; the greatest interest was manifested
by the members. Mrs. Julia Howe deliv-
ered an address. A committee of ladies
and gentlemen was chosen and appointed to
question candidates for nomination to the 
Legislature, in regard to their views on the
Suffrage question.

 EX-PRIEST GERDEMAN, who left the Ro-
man Catholic church not long since, has
been delivering lectures in Philadelphia,
which have been the subject of much com-
ment by newspaper writers, journalists and
the community generally. His lectures are
said to be eloquent, spicy and strictly in ac-
cordance with facts. He dwells at some
length on the curse of strong drink among
the priesthood. He speaks earnestly of his
devotion to the Catholic religion from child-
hood, and says he would have sacrificed his
life, inch by inch, for the Catholic church
before the dogma of infallibility was de-
clared.
 CHIFE JUSTICE Waite, of the Supreme
Court, in his decision before that honorable
body, denied that the right of suffrage is 
conferred upon any one by the fourteenth
amendment. The decision was made in the
case of Virginia T. Minor of Missouri. The 
"Woman,s Journal," in alluding to this says:
"There never could be any doubt of the
force of that amendment to any one who
read the first two sections of the amend-
ment together; as the first section secures
the full right of citizenship to all persons
born or naturalized in the United States and
subject to the laws thereof! The second
section tacitly admits the power of the
State to limit the right of Suffrage, even
as exercised by males over 21 years of age."
The Journal says "this is conclusive proof 
that the right of suffrage is not one of those
PRIVILIGES or IMMUNITIES secure from
abridgement in the first section." Citi-
zenship as meant in the first section signi-
fies merely "membership of the political
community constituting the nation." Wo-
man's right to such citizenship has been co-
extensive with man's. But the privilege
of voting is something conferred by the
State on whomsoever it chooses. It is clear
that the Constitution has not added the
right of suffrage to the PRIVILIGES and 
IMMUNITIES of citizenship as they existed
at the time of its adoption. And as a his-
torical fact at that time, the rights of men
and women did not include Suffrage."


