By BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

 "Sweet as refreshing dews or summer showers,
 To the long parching thirst of drooping flowels;
 Grateful as fanning gales to fainting swains;
 And soft as trickling balm to bleeding pains,
 Are they kind words."
 What is more heavenly in its character
and tendency than a truly kind and broad
charity; Paul tells us that though we have
every other characterisitc of perfection, and
have not charity, we are lacking in some-
thing most essential. We are all of us prone
to err, to make mistakes in judgment, in dis-
criminating, to look at things from our own
standpoint, forgetting that we are only a
very diminutive part of the creation of God.
We measure others by a very crude and im-
perfect standard which we have raised in
our own minds, and often pass our opinion
upon another's conduct, without ever con-
sidering that it will effect any harm, or have
an influence against them. I believe those
who make human nature their study, and
carefully weigh advantages, opportunities
and circumstances, will be most careful in
passing their judgment upon individual
faults and failings.
 Mankind are all possessed of more or less
individuality, and it is as dissimilar in bear-
ing and effect, as the countenances and ex-
pressions of the individuals themselves;
then there are so many elements which
characterize and form the mind and habits
that exist in various stages of progression in
different places and states of society, that
no one person, unless possessed of the Spirit
of God, ought ever to judge, except by the
most careful and thorough examination and
investigation of  acts, circumstances, and
tendencies, as well as motives past and pres-
ent.
 Would not kindness and tenderness be
better than harsh and hasty judgment?
Perhaps the very one from whom we turn


n disgust has been crushed by neglect,
wounded by unkindness, perchanee inherited
a morbid sensitiveness, impossible to over-
come under opposing circumstances. We
want a more thorough knowledge of the
motives which actuate the human heart be-
fore we can judge each other. We want 
more wisdom than can be obtained at schools
and institutions of learning, to be able to
discriminate judiciously where one's charac-
ter, reputation and honor are at stake. We 
want to have the visions of our minds ex-
panded and our sympathies enlarged, our
love for humanity generously increased,
and then pass judgment first upon our own
acts, probe our own hearts, and when we 
unconsciously reach forth to judge another,
always remember the appropriate suggestion
of Charles Reade, "Put yourself in his
place." Those who can be most lenient to-
wards another's shortcomings, will have
most confidence go in faith and humility
to their heavenly Father for the forgiveness 
of their own.


