HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	To Remove Stains on Spoons caused by using
them for boiled eggs; take a little common salt
moistened between the thumb and finger, and
briskly rub the stain, which will soon disappear.
	Putting Cream on Onions instead of butter, (or 
even a little milk if one has no cream,) removes
much of the strong flavor, and renders them less
likely to affect weak stomachs unpleasantly.
	Lamps are liable to explode when trimming is
neglected. The wick being charred low down in
the tube, the flame obtains access to the oil below.
	To Destroy Ants.—Wrap a piece of gum cam-
phor in cloth or paper to keep it from dissolving
and place it in or about your cupboard or sugar
and it will drive away those pests.
	Washing to Stiffen Fine Lace;—Dissolve a
lump of white sugar in a wine-glassful of cold
water.
	To Wash White Striped Stockings.—Make a
jelly, the night before it is wanted, of the best
yellow soap; wash the stockings in warm water
with a little salt in it, using the jelly instead of
soap; rinse in clear water, also with a little salt in
it; wring as dry as possible, and dry quickly.
	The following method of preserving cider swee
is recommended as superior to any other: "I allow
the cider, after it comes from the press, to stand
until the pomace settles. When this point is
reached I put it in a clear vessel, and let it come
to a boil, skimming off the scum carefully. It is
then put into kegs and demijohns, and tightly
corked and sealed. By this process I have excel-
lent sweet cider, not merely for the entire winter,
but for years. This method would not of course
be available where large quantities are made, but
for an ordinary family it answers admirably."
	Sandwiches for Picnics.—Boil a few pounds of
ham, and chop it very fine while it is still warm—
fat and lean together; rub dry mustard in propor-
tions to suit your taste through the mass; add as
much sweet butter as would go to the spreading of
your sandwiches, and when it is thoroughly mixed,
split light biscuits in halves and spread the ham
between.  These can be eaten without trouble; and
will be found excellent.  Add to them some
oranges, or any other fruit in season, a loaf of
cake—if you are a notable cake baker—a bottle of
cold tea well sweetened, a small lump of ice wrap-
ped in flannel, and you are well provisioned for the
day.


