CONFERENCE ITEMS.
THE FORTY-Fifth Semi-annual Conference
now just passed, has been one long to be re-
membered by the Latter-day Saints.  It was
held five days commencing Wednesday morn-
ing Oct. sixth, and adjourning Sunday after-
noon October tenth.  There were present of 
the first Presidency, President Brigham Young
and Daniel H. Wells. Of the Twelve, all ex-
cept Elder Albert Carrington.  The meetings
were well attended each day, and on Sunday it
is said there was the largest congregation ever
assembled in this city.  President Young him-
self preached several times during the confer-
ence instructing the people in regard to the 
United Order, and many other doctrinal points
President Wells and also different members of 
the quorum of the Twelve delivered excellent
discourses at different times during the confer-
ence, several of the returned missionaries,
President Joseph Young and others.  On the 
third day of the conference Elder George Q
Cannon read a long discourse by President
Brigham Young upon the resurrection, after
which Elder Woodruff made some excellent
and well-timed remarks upon that interesting
subject.  On the morning of the fourth day of 
conference the new tabernacle was dedicated
by prayer, written for the occasion, and read
by Elder John Taylor.  This prayer seemed to 
comprise every subject and idea, which should
have been associated with the dedication, and 
was a most perfect combination of eloquent
and expressive language.  In the afternoon of 
the same day, quite a large number of mission-
aries were called from the different counties
and settlements.  Among them were many 
young elders.  On Sunday, the fifth and last
day of the conference a few more missionaries
were called.  The whole of the preaching dur-
ing the conference has been of a nature
calculated to arouse the people from their
indifference to their religon, and inspire
them with renewed zeal in carrying out
the divine principles, revealed from heav-
en for the establishing of the kingdom of God
upon the earth, and the redemption of man-
kind.  The spirit of God seemed to rest down
upon the speakers and influence them in warn-
ing the people of the consequences of continu-
ing in  following after the fashions of Babylon,
which must inevitably fall, according to the 
predictions of ancient and modern prophets.
The music and singing during the conference
were particularly elevating and inspiring,
the selections of hymns and anthems well cho-
sen and effectively rendered.  The weather was
most propitious, and considering the vast
amount of people and of  little children every
thing passed off admirably and those who


listened understandingly, must certainly con-
sider themselves blessed indeed to be able to
hear so much truth and instruction, from the
mouths of the servants of God.


