HYGIENIC NOTES.

	As soon as a boil becomes hard and inflamed
paint it with iodine. The poison will not be scat-
tered, but will be absorbed by it.
	To Cure a Ringworm.—Paint it with iodine a
few times and it will entirely destroy exery ves-
tige of it.
	For Consumptive tendency or hemorrhage of
the lungs, never overtax the system nor exhaust it
by excesses, eat plenty of wholesome, nutritious
food, sleep eight hours every night, and enlarge
and expand the chest by the right sort of physical
culture and an out of door life. If sedentary in
habits, then be sure to take systematic exercise
daily.
	To Stop Bleeding at the Nose.—It is worth
while to know how to stop the bleeding from the
nose when it becomes excessive. If the finger is
pressed firmly upon thn little artery that supplies
the blood to the side of the face affected, the result
is accomplished. The two small arteries branch-
ing up from the main arteries on each side of the
neck, and passing over the outside of the jawbone,
supply the face with blood. If the nose bleeds
from the right nostril for example, pass the finger
along the edge of the right jaw till the beating of
the artery is felt. Press hard upon it, and the
bleeding will cease. Continue the pressure five
minutes, until the ruptured vessels in the nose
have time to contract.


What is in the Bed-room?—If two persons are
to occupy a bed-room during the night, let them
step on a weighing scale as they retire, and then
again in the morning, and they will find that their
actual weight is at least a pound less in the morn-
ing. Frequently there will be a loss of two or
more pounds, and the average loss throughout the
year will be a pound of matter, which has gone off
from their bodies, partly from the lungs, and part-
ly through the pores of the skin. The escaped mat-
ter is carbonic acid and decayed animal matter of
poisonous exhalation. This is diffused through the
air in part, and part absorbed by the bed-clothes. If
a single ounce of wood-cotton be burned in a room,
it will so completely saturate the air with smoke
that one can hardly breathe, though there can
hardly be one ounce of foreign matter in the air.
If an ounce of cotton be burned every half an
hour during the night, the air will be kept con-
tinually saturated with smoke, unless there be an
open window or door for its escape. Now, the
sixteen ounces of smoke thus formed is far less
poisonous than the sixteen exhalations from the
lungs and bodies of two persons who have lost a
pound in weight during the eight hours of sleeping;
for, while the dry smoke is mainly taken into the
lungs, the damp odors from the body are absorbed
both into the lungs and into the pores of the whole
body. Need more be said to show the importance
of having bedrooms well ventilated, and of thor-
oughly airing the sheets, coverlids and mattresses
in the morning, before packing them up in the
form of a neatly made bed.


