HOME AFFAIRS.
THE HANDEL and Hayden Society which 
has been organized in this city, have been pre-
paring themselves, we understand, to give a  
concert about the middle of November next.
THE ALLEGHANIANS closed their entertain-
ments in Salt Lake Saturday evening 9th ult.,
they drew tolerably full houses; the Matinee on 
Saturday afternoon was crowded and the ap-
plause was general.
A SOLICITATION was tendered by several gen-
tlemen of this city to Mr. Charles Vivian, to 
give another of his entertainments at the thea-
tre, before he returns to San Francisco; he ac-
cordingly complied with their request Thurs-
day last.
IN CONSEQUENCE of Chief Justice White
not having arrived in time to preside at the 
opening of the October term of the Third Dis-
trict Court, Monday the 11th inst., Gov. Emery
re-assigned Associate Justice Boreman to this
district, temporarily.
ELDER R. V. Morris in charge of the Wyo-
ming company of emigrants, arrived in this 
city with the company all safe and in good 
condition, Tuesday Oct. 5th.  They have had 
a speedy and pleasant journey.
THE FOURTEENTH Ward Literary Associa-
tion, re-opened Monday evening, Oct. 4th, at
7 o'clock in the Assembly Rooms, and will hold
a regular series of exercises every week on 
Monday evening, during the season.  The pub-
lic are invited to attend.
A METEOR was seen in this city on the even-
ing of October 12th, just about ten o'clock. It
was in a Westerly direction and descended in a 
North-Westerly at an angle of about 45[degree symbol]. When
first seen it seemed a pale blue tint, but after-
ward appeared a bright glowing crimson and fi-
nally exploded with a sparkling and resplend-
ent flash.
WE HAVE received from Mrs. William Wag-
staff three beautiful bouquets of a variety of 
flowers, among which were many colored ele-
gant dahlias, verbenas, honey-suckles and ge-
raniums, with ferns, grasses, etc, which added
much to their beauty; we accord the lady our 
most sincere thanks for the same, and also the 
luscious peaches which accompanied them and 
we shall not forget the pleasing compliment.
MONDAY OCT. 11th, there was a cheap excur-
sion to Lake Point, and it was well-timed to se-
cure a large party, and people from all quarters
availed themselves of the opportunity to enjoy
it, some of the party took a sea-bath, but the 
water was rather too cool for most people.  The
accommodations at the landing under the new
proprietors "The Southworth's" are very highly
spoken of.
THE DESERET Teachers Association held ad-
journed meetings conference week in the Uni-
versity Building, and elected their regular offi-
cers for the year; President, O H. Riggs; Vice
President, John R. Park; Secretary, F. M. 
Bishop; Treasurer, Karl G. Maeser.  After the 
transaction of necessary business for the season,
the Association adjourned "sine die".
THE MASSIVE and elegant front for the new
Deseret Bank Building arrived last week and 
has been put up.  The front of the story
above will be composed of brick and will be
similar in design to that of the South side of 
the building; the work is rapidly being for-
warded and it is expected it will be completed
before winter sets in.  The side and rear walls
of the new Co-operative Store are now up,
ready for the roof timbers; the iron front is ex-
pected very soon.  These two large new struct-
ures for public purposes are, besides being sol-
idly constructed, quite an addition to the ap-
pearance of the street.
A VERY elegant monument has been erected to 
the memory of the late Prest. Heber C. Kimball,
in the private burying ground belonging to that 
family.  The monument has a granite base and 
surbase; the body is formed into four gothic
panels of white veined marble on which the in-
scription is cut.  The monument is all of home
workmanship and is a fine specimen of artistic
skill.  The inscription is composed of about 1,-
700 letters and gives a concise account of the 
birth, life, travels ministry and death of this
distinguished man.  President Brigham Young
has also added a testimonial in his own words
which reads as follows: "He was a man of as 
much integrity, I presume as any man who 
ever lived upon the earth.  I have been person-
ally acquainted with him for forty-three years,
and I can testify that he has been a man of 
truth, a man of benevolence, a man that was 
to be trusted." On one of the panels is an in-
scription to the memory of Vilate Murray wife
of President Kimball who died Oct. 22nd, 1867.
MR. E. W. Tullidge who recently returned 
from New York, where he has been making ar-
rangements for the publication of his new work,
entitled the, "The Founders of Utah," informs
us that he is convinced the book he has been 
contemplating writing, and which he intends
bringing out immediately after this present
work, will be very popular.  He intends com-
prising and compiling in that work sketches
from the lives of the most prominent women
in this church and Territory.  Woman's work,
mission, sphere etc. are now extensively dis-
cussed, and people interested in these subjects
are especially curious to know something of the 
lives, motives, etc. of women who live in plu-
ral marriage, from one of their own people.
Mr. Tullidge also informs us that his last play
"Ben Israel" will shortly be brought out in 
Boston, by Miss Katharine Rogers and Mr.
Vincent.  We sincerely hope Mr. Tullidge may
realize some pecuniary remuneration from 
his works, as he has labored assiduously
in his vocation, and is certainly a brilliant,
pleasing and attractive writer.
THE VISIT of his Excellency President U.
S. Grant to this city, which took place recently,
was one of special interest and importance to
the people of this Territory.  His position, be-
ing the most elevated one in the nation, enti-
tles him to the highest respect and the most
distinguished attentions.  As soon as it was
authenticated that President Grant and party
were really coming to Salt Lake City, the City
Council held a special meeting, adopting reso-
lutions to give him a courteous, hearty and 
welcome reception, appropriate to his position.
Invitations were accordingly issued to federal,
civil and military officers, and some private
citizens, to constitute a party of welcome to go 
on a special train to Ogden to meet his Excel-
lency, and escort him to the city.  The party
left this city at half past nine, and arrived in 
Ogden at eleven o'clock.  The depot at Ogden
was thronged with people, anxious to avail
themselves of the opportunity of seeing the 
Chief Executive of the American Republic.
The special train on which the President was
traveling arrived in Ogden about half past
twelve o'clock.  His Excellency was standing
upon the platform of the car; the crowds of


people waved their hats as he approached,
which he gracefully acknowledged by taking
off his hat and bowing. The Ogden brass
brand welcomed him with their choicest se-
lections of music. Hon. George Q. Cannon, as
spokesman of the committee, approached Presi-
dent Grant, greeted him, and informed him of
the delegation, and presented to him the com-
mittee and other gentleman who accompanied
them. Soon after the train left Ogden, Presi-
dent Brigham Young, Hon. John Taylor,
Joseph F. Smith, Brigham Young, jr., and the
other gentlemen and ladies of the special train
party were presented to President Grant, who
stood upon the platform of the car, and were
also introduced to the President's party,
Mrs. President Grant, Col. Fred. Grant and
wife, Gen. O. E. Babcock, Hon. Hamilton Borie
ex-Secretary of the Navy, wife and niece,
and Governor Thayer of Wyoming. President
Young's meeting with President Grant was
particularly pleasant and cordial, and President 
Young, in his most happy manner, welcomed
his Excellency to Salt Lake City, and expressed
his desire that his visit might be enjoyable.
The President was met at the Salt Lake depot
by a long train of carriages, and the Sabbath
School children were arranged from the depot
to the Temple block; the most excellent order
prevailed everywhere. In the course of the
afternoon the President appeared upon the
balcony of the Walker House and was intro-
duced to the populace assembled there by Gov-
ernor Emery. On Monday morning President
Grant with his party, Gov. Emery and others,
visited the New Tabernacle; one incident con-
nected with this visit we wish to notice, which
is, Mrs. President Grant, when in the Taberna-
cle while the organ was playing, was deeply
affected, and her heart was drawn out in prayer
and she remarked afterwards that she 
then offered up a prayer to God in behalf of 
this people, "but remember," said she, "it was
a Methodist prayer." After their visit to the 
Tabernacle they drove up to Arsenal Hill to
get a good view of the city, then to Camp
Douglas. The President refused to receive any 
public demonstration. but said his visit was a 
private one, and did not warrant any firing of
cannons, martial music, etc. At one o'clock in
the afternoon he gave a public reception at the
Walker House, and thousands of people were
introduced and had the honor of shaking hands
with him. On the way to the depot President
Grant and party called upon Hon. Wm. Jen-
nings, where they were cordially received, and
refreshments suitable to the occasion served to
them. A select party of ladies and gentlemen 
accompanied them to Ogden. The President's 
private car was decorated with choice flowers 
in a tasteful and ornamental manner; the word
"Welcome" artistically arranged over the mir-
ror. President Grant, Mrs. Grant, Mrs. Fred.
Grant, Gen. Babcock, Ex-Secretary Borie, Gov-
ernor Thayer, Miss Borie and Mrs. Governor
Emery came and sat in the car with the Mor-
mon ladies and gentlemen, and were as socia-
ble and friendly as possible; Mr. Cannon very
politely introduced those ladies who had not
before been presented to the President and his
party. Everything passed off pleasantly; the
President and Mrs. Grant, in bidding the party
good bye, very graciously thanked the ladies
who decorated the car. When the President's 
car was ready to start, his Excellency appeared
upon the platform accompanied by his wife
and some others of their party; hearty cheers
resounded from all sides and the ladies waved
their handkerchiefs in token of adieu. Every
courtesy and attention possible, in so short a
time, was extended, to the President and party
during their brief stay.


