[Vol6 | May 1919 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Current Topics | Title: The Official Round Table]

OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE Conducted by Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. The most important and interestinghappening for women in the last month has been the recognition by the Paris Peace Conference of equal civil rights for the sexes. This surely will put an end to opposition for women suffrage in our nation, as well as in all other enlightened countries. Women everywhere are rejoicing over this triumph of right. The National Woman's Suffrage Association met in St. Louis, March 28 and 29, under the able leadership of Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. Mrs. Emily S. Richards, who is not only a member of our General Board, but is also President of the State Suffrage Association, with Miss Alice L. Reynolds, of Provo, who represents the women of that section, were our delegates at this great convention. The jubilee convention of the National Woman Suffrage Association elected Mrs. C. H. Brooks, of Wichita, Kansas, as permanent chairman of the League of Women Voters to serve until the next national convention of the suffrage association, which will be held in February, 1920, as a centennial celebration of Susan B. Anthony's birthday. By that time it is expected that the federal suffrage amendment will have been passed, and the National Suffrage association will take' the name of League of Women Voters. The League of Women Voters is composed of women of twentyfive states, in which there are more than 13,000,000 women voters. As other states are granted suffrage they become units of the league. The league decided to erect a monument in Cheyenne, Wyoming, where women were first granted the franchise; endorsed a plan of Americanization for the United States, and appointed committees to take up at once the study of laws on citizenship, elections, social morality and hygiene, unification of laws, food supply and demand. The Americanization plan as approved, provides: Compulsory education for all children between the ages of 6 and 16, with school attend- ance provided for nine months of each year; education of illiterate adults; stricter provisions of naturalization; votes for women to be given only to those who are naturalized in their own person or through naturalization of their father or mother or husband, after a residence of five years; naturalization laws to be so changed as to permit a married woman to be naturalized on her own qualifiactions; English to be the language of all public and private schools; oath of allegiance to the United States, as a qualification of the vote of all citizens; establishment of schools of citizenship in all school districts, and an educational qualification for every voter. The Illinois delegation has invited the next national convention to be held in Chicago. The outstanding feature of the convention was the adoption by the women delegates of the League to Enforce Peace and their determination to stand by the Peace Council sitting at Versailles. While women of both political parties may differ from President Wilson in some of his expressed views and points for a League constitution, every woman who loves freedom and an opportunity for self-expression must be grateful to President Wilson and his associates for the splendid recognition afforded them just recently in Paris. Men in high places politically, and men in low places, will have to reckon with women voters in the future. The campaign for the collection of clothing to relieve the terrible conditions in Europe, especially in Belgium, has been eminently successful in this state. The Red Cross has handled the matter with wisdom and dispatch, and the results have been overwhelmingly successful. The Fifth Liberty Loan has found Utah able and willing to meet her obligations to the country and to prove her loyalty through the thrift and patriotism of her citizens. As usual the women did the most of the detail work, and as usual they did it well. The postponement of the April conference was a great disap ointment atheadquarters. The General Board had prepared a full and instructive program for our own two days' conference. This summer many of the Societies will wish for some chance to catch up with lesson work, as so much has been lost because of "flu" conditions. The General Board are arranging some articles on Music and Special Hygiene. They will appear in the Magazine, as supplementary or informal studies. The choir leaders may or may not use the articles as lessons. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. Alpine Stake. A neat little folder has just been received at the general offices of the Relief Society. It is entitled "A Tribute to the Relief Societies of the Church," and was written in commemoration of the first organization of the Relief Society. It is signed by the Presidency of the Alpine stake: Stephen L. Chipman, James H. Clark, and Abel John Evans. In the introduction itstates that this tribute is to be read to every family in the Alpine stake of Zion by the ward teachers for the month of March, 1919. Following this is the date of the first organization, in 1842, with the original officers of the Relief Society. Next are the present general presiding officers, then the Relief Society officers of the Alpine stake. The General Board is indeed grateful for this splendid Appreciaition of the work of the Relief Society and with the spirit which prompted it. Such splendid support as is indicated in this article would make any stake Relief Society successful. The folder closes with the following tribute: "The labors and services of these noble and virtuous women are free, without money or price. Such service cannot be found in all the world, in any other Society known. In fact the organization of the Relief Society, in 1842, was the first known for the women in all the world. "Women as a rule have a keener sense of the needs of sufifering humanity, than have men; in their administration, they are gentle and kind, and become angels of love and mercy to those who are cast down. "They are women of faith, of hope and of charity, and consequently administer spiritual food, as well as physical strength. "They were organized under inspiration, and should receive the earnest support of every member of the Church of Christ. "Reports are made annually, and every cent accounted for that goes through the hands of our sisters. "March 17th of each year is celebrated in all the wards in commemoration of the first organization. "We recommend that every young woman, and especially our married daughters, join this benevolent organization and become active workers. "We solicit the support that the Society requires from our brethren and sisters and friends, with their means and influence. We sincerely hope that the Relief Society will grow and prosper, until every family can be well cared for, and that no one will be found hungry or destitute in our midst. "We also reconmend that as many of our sisters as can, should attend the Relief Society conferences of the Church, so they can keep in touch with the workings of the Society. "Praying that comfort will come to those who need comfort, and that faith will come to those who need faith, and that the poor will always be cared for, is the desire of the Alpine Stake Presidency. "Stephen L. Chipman, " "James H. Clark, "Abel John Evans." Oneida Stake. Mrs. Lucy M. Cutler, first counselor to President Nellie P. Head of the Relief Society of the Oneida stake, departed this life January 30, 1919, of influenza. In the passing of Mrs. Cutler, the Oneida stake loses not only a capable and conscientious officer, but a devoted and faithful member. Mrs. Cutler was a woman who understood and appreciated the gospel and who endeavored at all times to live in accordance with its teachings. During her life she served in various offices in each of the three women's organizations of the Church, and at the time she was chosen counselor in the Stake Relief Society, she was acting president of the Primary Association of the Oneida stake. While Mrs. Cutler was very active in the Church and public work, she neglected none of her home duties. She was the proud mother of twelve children, all of whom are left to love and cherish her memory. Cassia Stake. In a letter from Cassia stake we learn that several of the Relief Society women have attended a Chapter Course in Home Service, given at Twin Falls by the Northwestern Division of the Red Cross. This course, which was under the supervision of Miss Virginia McMechen of the Division office, was very interesting and instructive. Several home institutes have been held in this Division, at Seattle. Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry of the General Board attended the Institute held in Seattle, in June, 1918. The teachers' training classes have been organized in this stake, and the president, Mrs. Tine I. Jack, feels that these courses will be very helpful to the class teachers in the Relief Society. From the stake report recently received, we learn that in spite of the siege of influenza a great deal of work has been accomplished and the membership has an increase of 59 over last year; 492 days have been given in nursing care, and 823 special visits to the sick, in addition to the 257 regular visits made by the Relief Society ward teachers. The sum of $1,300 has been subscribed by ward Relief Societies in Liberty Bonds; and in addition, the individual members of the stake have subscribed to the amount of $8,920. One or two items from the Red Cross report will indicate the activity along that line: number of hospital garments made, 456; hospital supplies, 754; number of knitted articles, 1,254; articles collected for Belgian relief, 1,570. Tahitian Mission. The following very interesting letter has been received from Mrs. Venus R. Rossiter, of the Tahitian Mission: "I am today sending the annual report of the Tahitian Mission Relief Society, and trust that it will not be too late to be included in the 1918 general report; but since at this port all local vessels have been held under quarantine with the Spanish influenza since last November, I have not been able to communicate with the different island branches and get the material to compile the report. "We have had a terrible siege here of the influenza, people dying in such numbers that they could not be buried, and were therefore burned. Entire families were wiped out, and houses are standing empty all around us. "Five of our elders contracted it, but fortunately had very light cases. The rest of us escaped it entirely, for which we are very grateful. "By the report you will see that our members have been very diligent the past year in raising funds for different purposes. The sisters of the Takaroa and Hikueru branches have purchased organs for their respective branches, the Takaroa sisters raising $145 in one day by voluntary donations of $5 each, for that purpose. The remaining amount was raised by diving for pearls, and making coprah (dried cocoanut). "In the erection of a new chapel, at Hikueru, the sisters assisted with the sum of $217.60, and also prepared the meals daily for the brethren who turned out en masse to build it. "You will find enclosed $30 for the Temple Building Fund.' "We all send our love and heartiest congratulations to 'Aunt Em,' and hope that she may yet live many years to lead this great Relief Society work and to inspire and lead us on by her revered presence. "I remain sincerely "Your sister in the gospel, "'Venus R. Rossiter.'^ In the Tahitian Mission there is a total membership of 118. During the last year the theological and home economics lessons have been studied. With the sick, 190 days have been spent, 591 special visits have been made to the sick, 25 families helped, and ten bodies prepared for burial; $292 have been paid for charitable purposes, and $296 for general purposes. RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE CONFERENCES FOR 1919. Relief Society Stake Conferences for May, June and July will be held in connection with the Stake quarterly conferences, v/herever and whenever the latter are to be held. We are advised from the General Church Offices that the holding of quarterly conferences for the next quarter will depend upon health conditions in the various local communities and upon the recommendation of the stake presidents. Relief Society stake officers will, therefore, consult with the stake presidency and learn from them as to whether or not conferences will be held. The Conference dates following have been arranged tentatively pendinglocal conditions. Relief Society Conferences held in November will be held independently. Conference Dates. May 3rd and 4th — Curlew, Alberta, Boise, Maricopa, Raft River, South Sanpete, Wayne. May 10th and 11th — Emery, Millard, Juab, Taylor, St. Joseph. May 17th and 18th — San Juan, Shelley, Bannock, Malad, Blackfoot, Big Horn, Teton, Juarez. May 24th and 25th — Portneuf, Bingham, Pocatello, Young, Bear Lake. May 31st and June 1st — Rigby, Panguitch, Moapa, Idaho, San Luis. June 7th and 8th — Kanab, Morgan, Oneida. June 21st and 22nd— St. George, North Sanpete, Uintah, Star Valley, Union, Montpelier. June 28th and 29th — Sevier, Fremont, Deseret, Duchesne, Parowan. July 19th and 20th — Beaver, Benson, Hyrum, Tooele, Tintic, St. Johns. July 26th and 27th — Wasatch, Woodruff, Cassia, Yellowstone, Snowflake. November (dates to be arranged later) — Alpine, Bear River, Box Elder, Cache, Carbon, Cottonwood, South Davis, Ensign, Granite, Jordan, Liberty, Nebo, North Davis, North Weber, Ogden, Pioneer, Salt Lake, Summit, Utah, Weber. PROGRAM. For stakes holding conferences in connection with quarterly conferences: First Session. Saturday, 2 p. m. Public Session. Quarterly Conference. Conjoint meeting Relief Society and Primary. Second Session. Saturday 4 p. m. Stake and Local Officers Meeting. Third Session. Stake Officers Meeting. (Time and place to be decided by Stake President.) Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary.