[Vol29 | January 1942 | Sequence: 35 | Category: Article | Title: A Tribute to the Relief Society President Rudger Clawson]
A  Tribute  to  the  Rehef  Society  
 President  Rudger  Clawson     3 
In  Retrospect — Chapter  I  
 President  Amy  Brown  Lyman     5 
A  Monument  With  a  Message   Mary  Grant  Judd  11 
Prize-Winning  Poems — Ehza  Roxey  Snow  Memorial  Poem  Contest     13 
Prize- Winning  Story — Rehef  Society  Centennial  Short  Story  Contest     17 
Women  and  the  Church   (Rehef  Society  General  Conference  Address)     
  Elder  Stephen  L  Richards  24 
The  Great  Fig  Tree  (Play,  Relief  Society  General  Conference)   Joseph  J.  Cannon  47 
Children's  Books    52 
Fiction 
The  Wilderness  
 Alice  Morrey  Bailey  17 
There's  Always  a  New  Beginning  
 Mary  Ek  Knowles  -28 
The  Merry-Go-Round — Chapter  Ten    Ahce  Morrey  Bailey  41 
General  Features 
Fashions  of  Yesterday  
  35 
Happenings   Annie   Wells   Cannon  36 
Editorial:   Our  Centennial   
  37 
Notes  to  the  Field: 
Participation  of  Relief  Society  in  Red  Cross  Work    39 
Contributions  for  Relief  Society  Centennial  Memorial  Campanile     39 
Gospel  Standards,  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant     40 
Bound  Volumes  
  40 
Home  Accident  Prevention — No.  IV  
  51 
Lessons 
Theology  and  Testimony— Articles  of  Faith,  by  James  E.  Talmage,  Chapter  7    54 
Visiting  Teachers' — Sabbath  Day  Observance  as  an  Expression  of  Faith     56 
Work-and-Business — Children's   Clothing   
  57 
Literature — Humor  About  and  For  Children      59 
Social  Science — Economic  Aspects  of  Family  Life  
  63 
Mission — "True  to  the  Faith"   
  69 
Poetry 
To  a  Pioneer  Lady   Grace  Zenor  Pratt     4 
Sanctuary  
 Ahce  L.   Eddy  10 
Snow  
 Dott  J.  Sartori  12 
Brave  Privileged  Feet  
 Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard  13 
Spacious  Century — 1842-1942    Vesta  Pierce  Crawford  14 
Centennial  
 Zella  A.  Johnson  15 
The  Rhythm  of  the  Band      
 Marjorie  Rust  23 
The  Second  Mile   Gertrude  Perry  Stanton  34 
And  Tell  of  Time   Mabel  Jones  Gabbott  38 
To  Zaidee  Judith  
  46 
Pioneers  of  Women   Elsie  F.  Parton  74 
PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  BY  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
Editorial  and  Business  Offices:  28  Bishop's  Building,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Fhone  3-2741,  Ex.  243. 
Subscription  Price:  $1.00  a  year;  foreign,  $1.00  a  year;  payable  in  advance.  Single  copy,  10c. 
The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be 
missed.  Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  both  old  and  new  address. 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under 
the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in 
section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Stamps  should  accompany  manu- 
scripts for  their  return.

(greetings 
ViriTH  the  dawning  of  the  New 
Year— our  centennial  year— the 
General  Board  extends  affectionate 
greetings  to  Relief  Society  women 
throughout  the  Church. 
How  happy  and  blessed  we  are  in 
our  membership  in  an  organization 
which  for  one  hundred  years  has  been 
devoted  to  the  cause  of  humanity 
and  the  glory  of  God— a  mission  for 
which  it  was  organized  and  set  apart 
by  its  Prophet-founder. 
As  we  look  back  over  the  long  road 
which  has  been  traveled,  we  can 
visualize  the  brave  women  of  each 
period  who  have  made  their  contri- 
bution and  passed  the  work  on  to 
others,  leaving  their  memories  and 
inspiration  as  a  precious  heritage  to 
those  who  have  followed. 
As  we  review  the  work  of  the  past 
year,  which  is  typical  of  that  of  other 
years,  the  feeling  uppermost  in  our 
hearts  is  one  of  sincere  thanksgiving 
and  gratitude  to  you  dear  sisters  of 
today  for  your  earnest  labors  and 
notable  achievements,  and  to  our 
Heavenly  Father  for  the  manifold 
blessings  and  mercies  He  has  be- 
stowed upon  us  and  upon  our  organ- 
ization. 
While  we  have  cause  for  rejoicing 
in  our  growth,  development,  and  ac- 
complishments, we  are  not  unmind- 
ful of  the  sorrows  and  suffering  in 
many  lands  today,  of  the  unrest 
which  is  spreading  over  the  whole 
face  of  the  earth,  and  of  the  tendency 
to  destroy  instead  of  to  build.  And 
we  wonder  what  the  New  Year  will 
bring.  Our  constant  prayer  is  that 
in  this  New  Year  which  is  especially 
Vera  W.  Pohlman, 
General  Secretary-Treasurer. 
sacred  to  us,  and  which  is  our  most 
important  milepost,  the  forces  of 
evil  may  be  destroyed,  that  misun- 
derstanding, selfishness,  and  hate 
may  be  removed  from  the  hearts  of 
men,  and  that  sympathy,  under- 
standing, and  reason,  and  the  spirit 
of  the  Master  may  enter  therein; 
that  war  may  cease  and  peace  be 
established  in  the  earth. 
It  is  the  plain  teaching  of  history 
that  there  is  only  one  way  to  avoid 
war,  and  that  is  to  remove  the  causes 
of  war.  We  believe  it  is  within  the 
power  of  men  to  put  into  operation 
those  forces  that  would  bring  this 
about,  and  that  this  could  be  done 
if  they  would  carefully  study  and  be 
willing  to  apply  in  their  daily  lives 
the  teachings  of  the  Savior.  Jesus 
said: 
.  .  .  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God 
with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul, 
and  with  all  thy  mind.  This  is  the  first 
and  great  commandment.  And  the  second 
is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor 
as  thyself.   (Matthew  22:37-39) 
Therefore  all  things  whatsoever  ye 
would  that  men  should  do  to  you,  do  ye 
even  so  to  them :  for  this  is  the  law  and  the 
prophets.    (Matthew  7:12) 
If  the  abiding  aim  of  all  the  people 
of  the  world  could  be  the  promotion 
and  practice  of  these  divine  teach- 
ings, which  foster  love  for,  and  faith 
in,  all  mankind,  it  would  be  the 
greatest  step  that  could  be  taken  to 
bring  about  permanent  peace. 
That  we  may  in  our  own  lives  re- 
dedicate  ourselves  to  the  way  of  life 
proposed  by  the  Master  is  our  earnest 
prayer. 
Amy  Brown  Lyman, 
Marcia  K.  Howells, 
Donna  D.  Sorensen, 
General  Presidency.