[Vol29 | January 1942 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Centennial Johnson]

Centennial Zella A. Johnson Third Prize The Master paused, as time rolled back the ages, To choose a gift, a blessing for the earth. He marked a golden sheet in history's pages: "This shall record a boon of greatest worth.. For womankind the world is dark and dreary, But dawning of a brighter day appears. The night shall end; this day shall mark for women, The opening of a glorious hundred years." One hundred years of light and hope and duty, One hundred years of giving and of love, One hundred years of filling life with beauty, One hundred years of blessing from above. That was the gift God chose from all his treasures To cheer the earth and give it life anew; The key was turned, and blessings without measure Have flowed to prove a prophet's words are true. A hundred years He gave to us, my sisters; But they are gone, and now our prayer He hears. "O Father, in thy mercy, look upon us, Help us be worthy of our hundred years. 
  JANUARY, 1942
Teach us, O God, the law of love and patience, ~The law of faith and sorrow for our sin; An understanding heart we crave, our Father, To help the needy and their friendship win." The blessing is for all; we are but chosen To serve the world, to guide and point the way, Reflect the light which comes to us from heaven, The dawning of the great Millennial Day. Teach us the "charity which never faileth" The love which to our Saviour's heart endears. Our gratitude we offer for this blessing, The opening of another hundred years. Your Power OTHING will sustain you more potently than the power to recognize in your humdrum routine, as perhaps it may be thought, the true poetry of life the poetry of the commonplace, of the ordinary man, of the plain toilworn woman, with their loves and their joys, their sorrows and their griefs. Sir William Ostler eo The Praise and Properties of a Good Wife GTRENGTH and honor are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come. She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household; and eateth not the bread of idleness. (Proverbs 31:25-27) King Lemuel THE path of a good woman is indeed strewn with flowers; but they rise behind her steps, not before them. Ruskin + The Noblest Life HE noblest life is the life that loves, that gives, that loses itself, that overflows, as it were, irrigates the great fields of human anxiety and toil; the warm, hearty, social, helpful life; the life that cheers and comforts, and sustains by its serenity and patience and gratitude. Anon. . Prize Winning Story Relief Society Centennial Short Story Contest
ALICE MORREY BAILEY