THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 29, NO 1 Lessons for April JANUARY 1942
THE COVER
Centennial Memorial Campanile
The cover picture is a photograph of the proposed memorial campanile to be erected on Temple Square as a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance. In this bell tower will hang the famous Nauvoo Temple bell. The structure, designed by Lorenzo Young, Salt Lake architect, is to have a black granite base and terrazzo terrace, with the upper part of the campanile of cast bronze. At the top of the granite base an urn containing a light will illuminate the bell at night. The height of the structure is to be thirty-five feet. Four plaques for the base are being designed by Avard Fairbanks, Utah-born sculptor.
While it was originally planned that bronze be used in combination with other materials in the erection of this campanile, the war situation makes it necessary for the Government to restrict the use of certain metals for purposes such as this. Accordingly, the erection of the structure will proceed as planned using permanent materials in so far as they are available, and where necessary substitute materials will be used temporarily.
The General Board of Relief Society accepts voluntary contributions toward the erection of this permanent memorial. For particulars see page 39.
Arrangements for this month's cover design are by Evan Jensen.
RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL SOUVENIRS
Now Available for Purchase
OFFICIAL CENTENNIAL SEAL
The official centennial insignia has been beautifully reproduced in the Relief Society colors, blue and gold, on gummed seals the same size as the reproduction above. These are suitable for use on programs, booklets, letterheads, invitations, place-cards, and for similar purposes in connection with centennial celebrations, or for other purposes during the centennial year.
Price, 10c per 100, postpaid. Not available in lots of less than 100.
OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN
No. 1 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat gold-plated, price $1.10, postpaid.
No. 2 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid-gold front (gold-filled), with 24 carat gold-plated back, price $1.80, postpaid.
Both pins are identical as to design, size, and coloring. Although issued as a feature of the centennial year, this pin bears only the organization date, 1842, and will therefore be appropriate for use after the centennial.
These prices include Federal excise tax.
OUR LEGACY
RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL ANTHOLOGY OF VERSE
This 329-page book contains poems selected from the writings of Latter-day Saint women from 1835 to 1942, including all the prize poems designated in the annual Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest. The relatives of those whose poems are included in this anthology will be especially interested.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
CENTENNIAL COMMEMORATIVE PLATE
This pottery plate, 10½ inches in diameter depicts the first Relief Society meeting held in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842. Brown is the predominating color of the design on this beautiful ivory plate, with costumes in a variety of colors. The plate is bordered with gold-colored wheat heads. The inscription on the back gives information as to the organization, scope, and purposes of Relief Society.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
CENTENNIAL SONGS
A SONG OF TRIUMPH. Words and music by the late Beatrice F. Stevens, 2 pages, 5c per copy. Postpaid.
IN THY FORM, words by Dr. Carlton Culmsee. Music by Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, 7 pages, 10c per copy. Postpaid.
These two songs are punched to fit the loose-leaf RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK.
All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. 29 JANUARY, 1942 No. 1
Contents
Special Features
General Board of Relief Society Frontispiece 2
A Tribute to the Relief Society President Rudger Clawson 3
In Retrospect Chapter I President Amy Brown Lyman 5
A Monument With a Message Mary Grant Judd 11
Prize-Winning Poems Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest 12
Prize-Winning Story Relief Society Centennial Short Story Contest 17
Women and the Church (Relief Society General Conference Address) Stephen L Richards 24
The Great Fig Tree (Play, Relief Society General Conference) Joseph J. Cannon 47
Children's Books 52
Fiction
The Wilderness Alice Morrey Bailey 17
There's Always a New Beginning Mary E Knowles 28
The Merry-Go-Round Chapter Ten Alice Morrey Bailey 41
General Features
Fashions of Yesterday 35
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 36
Editorial:
Our Centennial 37
Notes to the Field:
Participation of Relief Society in Red Cross Work 39
Contributions for Relief Society Centennial Memorial Campanile 39
Gospel Standards, by President Heber J. Grant 40
Bound Volumes 40
Home Accident Prevention No 51
Lessons
Theology and Testimony Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage, Chapter 7 54
Visiting Teachers Sabbath Day Observance as an Expression of Faith 56
Work-and-Business Children's Clothing 57
Literature Humor About and For Children 59
Social Science Economic Aspects of Family Life 63
Mission "True to the Faith 69
Poetry:
To a Pioneer Lady Grace Zenor Pratt 4
Sanctuary Alice L. Eddy 10
SNOW Dott J. Sartori 12
Brave Privileged Feet Eva Willes Wangsgaard 13
Spacious Century 1842-1942 Vesta Pierce Crawford 14
Centennial Zella A. Johnson 15
The Rhythm of the Band Marjorie Rust 23
The Second Mile Gertrude Perry Stanton 34
And Tell of Time Mabel Jones Gabbott 38
To Zaidee Judith 46
Pioneer of Women Elsie F. Parton 74
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.

Greetings Relief Society Executive Officers   Greetings With the dawning of the New Year our centennial year the General Board extends affectionate greetings to Relief Society women throughout the Church. How happy and blessed we are in our membership in an organization which for one hundred years has been devoted to the cause of humanity and the glory of God a mission for which it was organized and set apart by its Prophet-founder. As we look back over the long road which has been traveled, we can visualize the brave: women of each period who have made their contribution and passed the work on to others, leaving their memories and inspiration as a precious heritage to those who have followed. As we review the work of the past year, which is typical of that of other years, the feeling uppermost in our hearts is one of sincere thanksgiving and gratitude to you dear sisters of today for your earnest labors and notable achievements, and to our Heavenly Father for the manifold blessings and mercies He has bestowed upon us and upon our organization.
While we have cause for rejoicing in our growth, development, and accomplishments, we are not unmindful of the sorrows and suffering in many lands today, of the unrest which is spreading over the whole face of the earth, and of the tendency to destroy instead of to build. And we wonder what the New Year will bring. In this New Year which is especially Vera W. Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer. Our constant prayer is that - sacred to us, and which is our most important milepost, the forces of evil may be destroyed, that misunderstanding, selfishness, and hate may be removed from the hearts of men, and that sympathy, understanding, and reason, and the spirit of the Master may enter therein; that war may cease and peace be established in the earth. It is the plain teaching of history that there is only one way to avoid   war, and that is to remove the causes of war. We believe it is within the power of men to put into operation those forces that would bring this about, and that.
This could be done if they would carefully study and be willing to apply in their daily lives the teachings of the Savior.
Jesus said:...
Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.
This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. (Matthew 22:37-39) Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets. (Matthew 7:12) If the abiding aim of all the people of the world could be the promotion and practice of these divine teachings, which foster love for, and faith in, all mankind, it would be the greatest step that could be taken to bring about permanent peace.
That we may in our own lives rededicate ourselves to the way of life proposed by the Master is our earnest prayer. -Amy Brown Lyman, Marcia K. Howells, Donna D. Sorensen, General Presidency. The Relief Society Magazine 
Vol. 29 JANUARY, 1942 No.