[Vol29 | January 1942 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Humor About Children]

LESSON DEPARTMENT 59
Literature Humor In Life And Literature Lesson 7
Humor About and For Children (Tuesday, April 21, 1942) Their little language the children have, as on the knee they sit; And only those who love them can find the key to it. ?F. T. Palgrave A little fun to match the sorrow of each day's growing. Lesson Topics Review of last lesson Need for humor in the lives of children Types of humor children enjoy Humor about children for adults Children's unconscious humor Humor as a bond between parents and children Review of Last Lesson Lesson Six discussed the distinctions made by critics between wit and humor. It was pointed out that wit is more artificial than humor, less kindly, more likely to hurt. In this comparative sense humor results within the object which calls it forth, whereas wit arises within the mind of the one who expresses it. A division of wit into "harmless wit" and "tendency wit" was made by some authorities.
According to these classifications, some satires would come under the latter?those with a sting, directed definitely at groups or individuals.
Also it was pointed out that sometimes wit is not akin to humor. It is merely a concise, apt way of stating facts or observations. The latter part of the lesson was devoted to humor which arises from incongruities in life itself.
This was ?Du Maurier designated as the highest type of humor.
Those writers who have discussed this type show it to be a mingling of pathos with humor, and they illustrate that the laughter which it evokes is mingled with tears.
Illustrations from artists who have achieved this highest type, notably Dickens, Twain, and O. Henry, were presented.
Need for Humor in the Lives of Children We have discussed the point that humor is needed in the life of the individual for the pleasure it brings, for the deep understanding of life and of character it gives, and for the enrichment of personality it brings.
Since the "child is father of the man," then, if humor is good for the man, it is good, too, for the child. He will likely not be able to appreciate humor when he is an adult if he has not learned to do so as a child.
That we learn to do by doing is true in more phases of life than our mere physical activities.
Just as we learn to write on a typewriter or to play a piano by performing those activities, so we learn to be cheerful by being cheerful, to love by loving, to see the incongruities about us and extract fun from them 60 by looking for them and laughing at them.
Adults are inclined to regard the child's world as always carefree and happy. In reality, childhood troubles, as the old poem says, "are biggern meetin' houses." We need only to recall our own childhood to realize the stark tragedy of a broken doll or a lost pet. One of the reasons for this course in humor at the present time is to distract attention from too much trouble and sorrow. If a child is crying, what does the mother do? She tries to make him laugh. So humor serves as a salve and a medicine for the child's injury or disappointment, as it does for the trials and sorrows of maturity. Youth, then, is the natural time for laying the foundation for a later evaluation of humor and for developing an appreciation of all it can give to life. Youth, too, is the time for the cultivation of a sense of humor.
Types of Humor Children Enjoy Psychologists have written learnedly, after careful observation, upon the laughter of infants. We are informed of the age when they begin to laugh, of the age when they laugh.
Very early, these studies disclose, babies laugh at antics of older children. As the psychologist, Sully, in his Studies of Childhood says: So far as I could judge, little sister served as a kind of jester to the baby monarch. He would take just that distant, good-natured interest in her foolings that Shakespeare's sovereigns took in the eccentric and unpredictable ways of their jesters. The sense of the droll became still more distinctly marked at six months.
Among other provocations of laughter at this time were a rapid succession of sharp staccato  sounds from one's vocal organs; and, of course, the sudden reappearing of one's head as in playing peek-a-boo. As children grow older, they continue to laugh at grotesqueness in appearance and in action. 'That is why they like Snow White and The Seven Dwarfs, Pinnochio, Punch and Judy.
They like pantomimes and cartoons, which are other forms of grotesqueness.
Children even.
Find meaningless combinations of words laughable.
After a child has learned to talk, he will often repeat silly lingoes and laugh delightedly over them.
Children love jingles?the Mother Goose thymes with humorous turns; picture books with funny pictures. All too soon, they devote themselves to the "funny papers," which unfortunately are rapidly ceasing to be "funny." Mrs. May C. Hammond, teacher of the first grade in the Brigham Young University Training School, has made, with the help of students who are training to become teachers, a study of what little children laugh at. The following four things lead as laugh makers, according to the study: 1.
Misfortune to others, such as when a chair is pulled out from under someone.
Both the victim and the practical joker laugh. 2. The grotesque, such as when someone mixes up a nursery rhyme; when someone calls out a wrong word when words are being matched; when someone suggests a foolish reason for being thankful; when someone makes such a statement as, "the pilgrims ate corn flakes." 3.
Unexpected happenings,.
Such as when the teacher was telling the children what not to do when telling a story. She said, "Don't pull on suspenders as Henry did?like this." As she illustrated, the suspender broke, and the children laughed.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 4.
Strange words and sounds, such as unusual names. The children laughed at such names as McIntosh, Marchant. Mrs.
Hammond lists the following humorous books among those enjoyed by children: The Story of Ferdinand, Epaminondas, Wiggles, and Dutch Twins.
Most children love humorous verse that consists of extravagance and whimsicality of thought and expression. A Child's Garden of Verse by R. L.
Stevenson is a favorite with most children; it contains quiet roguery and humorous conceits. A few examples follow: The lovely cow, all red and white, I love with all my heart; She gives me milk with all her might To eat with apple tart. When I am grown to man's estate I shall be very proud and great, And tell the other girls and boys Not to meddle with my toys. A favorite is "My Shadow," beginning: I have a little shadow that goes in and out with me,. And what can be the use of him is more than I can see, He is very, very like me from the heels up to my head; And I see him jump before me, when I jump into my bed. The funniest thing about him is the way he likes to grow,... Etc.
They enjoy Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, and Through the Looking Glass, by Lewis Carroll, with their Tweedledum and Tweedledee, the white rabbit with his spectacles, and the Cheshire cat that can go away and leave its grin.
Older children enjoy John Gip- 61 lin's Ride, by William Cowper, and The Adventure of Tam O'Shanter, by Robert Burns. They, and their parents as well, laugh at Christopher Robin's adventures with Pooh and Tigger and Piglet, as presented in the delightful Christopher Robin series by A. A. Milne. It is a question as to who gets more amusement, the grandmother who reads A. A. Milne's delightful books to her four-year-old grandchild or the child to whom the story is read. The following is one of the songs: The more it SNOWS-tiddely-pom, The more it GOES -tiddely-pom, The more it GOES-tiddely-pom, On Snowing. And nobody KNOWS -tiddely-pom, How cold my TOES-tiddely-pom, How cold my. TOES-tiddely-pom, Are Growing. Humor About Children for Adults Besides the Milne books, there are many others supposedly written for the child's level, but which are enjoyed perhaps even more by older people. The books by the Abbe children are full of humor which only adults can fully enjoy. When Patience makes allusions to her parents there is usually a thrust of sly satire beyond a child's comprehension.
Light verse of certain types appeals to old and young alike, such as the quotations which follow: I never knew a purple cow; I never hope to see one. But I can tell you anyhow, I'd rather see than be one. I wish I was a little rock, A-sittin' on a hill, A-doin' nothin' all day long But just a-sittin' still. I wouldn't eat; I wouldn't sleep; I wouldn't even wash? I'd sit and sit a thousand years And rest myself b'gosh! ?Frederick P, Latimer Uncle Simon he Climb up a tree To see What he could see.
When presently Uncle Jim Clumb up beside of him And squatted down by he. ?Artemus Ward.
Small boy, Pair of skates; Hole in ice, Heavenly gates.
Mothers can do a great deal to develop a sense of humor in their children and an appreciation for the right kind of humor, that which has kindliness as its essence. Children's Unconscious Humor In expressing themselves, children, like poets, use similarities which escape most of us.
These expressions are often so quaint and whimsical that they border on the humorous. A little girl living for the first time in an apartment house came to the door and said: "Mother, the lady living in the shelf above wants to speak to you." A small boy speaking of a picnic said: "I would have eaten more, but I ran out of stomach.".
Children often use striking similes and metaphors to express what they see. A little girl came in with ' a bleeding heart blossom, exclaiming: "See our valentine bush is in bloom!"
Upon another occasion, she asked for an iron to press her doll's "withered clothes."
Humor as a Bond Between Parents and Children Laughter and tears are cement which bind hearts together.
When people suffer together, they are drawn together in a close bond that seldom ever breaks.
Parents who share their children's.
Sorrows and disappointments are close to them. It is the same with laughter. It is a human characteristic to want to share ' pleasurable experiences with loved ones. The more mothers and children together see the humorous in things about them, the more they laugh together over what they read, the closer they will be to each other. A woman who had felt a strong aversion to the comic strips in the newspapers discovered that her children and their father had a little world of their own from which she was shut out.
They would talk about Worry Wart, Uncle Walt, Jiggs, Skeezix, and other characters of the "funnies" as if they were friends, and laugh together about things that meant nothing to her. Finally, she began to read the "funnies" for the added companionship it would give her with her family. It also helped her to better understand what amused her children. And that is very important.
People can be judged by what they.
Laugh at. It is important for mothers to know what their children find amusing; it is important for them to help their children to laugh at the right 
 ?JANUARY, 1942 LESSON DEPARTMENT things?good, clean, humor. In the formative years of childhood, the tastes of the later years which have so much to do with the plane of individual culture, are formed. More important than most mothers realize is the cultural value of a wholesome discrimination between coarse and sound humor. That discrimination is at the very core of a child's character. Greatest of all of O. Henry's characteristics is the power of bringing good out of evil, of finding a place for love and laughter, where all around seems misery and sin. Genuine humor. Is replete with wisdom.. Humor is the good-natured side of any truth.... Humor is the sudden light on the funny side of things that often keeps one from saying or doing something foolish?Opie Read wholesome 63
Problems and Projects 1. Discuss the importance of humor in the lives of children. 2. From your observation of your own and other children, what conclusion can you draw as to the kinds of humor children enjoy? 3. Read passages from Around the World With the Abbe Children or some other such book to illustrate humor about children suitable for adults. 4. Give illustrations of "unconscious" humor of children. 5- Relate incidents to show how humor serves as a family bond. 6. Can parents do anything to improve the type of comic strips appearing today? Supplementary Reading Around the World with the ? Children. Stevenson, A Child's Garden of Verse. Milne, A. A., Christopher Robin. Milne, A. A., Winnie, the Pooh. Leaf, Munroe, Ferdinand the Bull. Day, Clarence, Life with Mother.