[Vol29 | January 1942 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Home No]

Home Accident Prevention No. IV MISCELLANEOUS ACCIDENTS POISONS, ANIMALS, FIREARMS, ET CETERA The American National Red Cross, in its publication Home and Farm Accident Prevention, states that the number of accidents and deaths due to the misuse of poisons, the mishandling of firearms and fireworks, and to venomous or dangerous animals as well as the number of accidents and deaths due to bicycle and sled crashes, justify careful consideration being given to their prevention. The publication presents the following cautions: Some dry cleaning fluids are toxic, poisoning the system either through absorption through the skin or inhalation. If they are used, be sure the room is well. Ventilated.
Many poisonings occur in the bathroom. If poisons must be kept on hand, the bottle should be plainly marked. To eliminate the danger of mistaking a bottle at night, pins may be stuck in the cork or otherwise clearly identified.
Poisons should never be within reach of children.
Insecticides should never be stored in or near the kitchen. Be careful of the poisons used for extermination - of rats and mice.
Avoidable contaminations and improper refrigeration are usually behind each case of illness from food poisoning. Therefore, food to be eaten raw should be fresh, clean, free from abnormal odors and _ rotting areas and from mold, and should be washed in clean water.
Cooked foods should be heated to the boiling point, kept free from contamination, and if to be held more than a few hours, subjected to refrigeration. If canned goods are held more than a few hours after opening the can, the same precautions as to refrigeration and recooking should be observed as in the case of freshly-prepared foods.
Discard any discolored food and any having unusual odor.
Destroy contents of any swollen can.
Where there is a reason to doubt foods, they should not be tasted. II. Animals Dispose of cross household pets. To strangers. See that all doors, gates, hinges, latches, stalls, and fences confining farm animals are absolutely secure. III. Firearms Keep guns where the children can't reach them, and take shells out of the guns before putting them away.
Carty a gun with the muzzle pointed to the ground. Don't carry a cocked gun.
Never point a gun at anyone.
Teach children not to threaten others with toy guns in play.
Never joke with guns. IV. Fireworks?Fourth of July Celebration There is no such thing as safe fireworks.
Deaths have been caused by so-called harmless sparklers and by other harmless fireworks. V.
Coasting and Skating These are sports widely engaged in and are not free from accidents. For coasting, hills should be selected which are removed from main arteries of traffic.
Children should be cautioned against "hitching" on to automobiles and trucks. No one should attempt to skate on ice only. An inch or so thick. Firm, sound ice four inches thick may usually be considered all right. VI. Mental Hazards Worry is a contributing cause of accidents in the home.
Anxiety and haste are often the cause of physical injuries.