[Vol29 | January 1942 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: In Retrospect Chapter I Lyman]

O pioneer lady, brave of spirit and true, We who are only women today offer our praise to you, In Retrospect President Amy Brown Lyman Chapter I T the request of the General A Board that I write a series of autobiographical articles for the Relief Society Magazine, I have consented to do so. I assume this task with a deep sense of humility and with the hope that this brief chronicle of some of the events of my life will be of sufficient interest to justify publication. Pleasant Grove, the small village located at the foot of famous Mt.
Timpanogos in Utah County, was my birthplace. I arrived on a cold, brisk February 7 morning in 1872, just twenty-five years after the settlement of Utah and twenty-two years after the settlement of - Pleasant Grove.
Coming at this time, I missed the real hardships of earlier days and enjoyed such advantages as living on a railroad. When I was one year old, in 1873, the Utah Central, the first railroad in Utah, was extended through Pleasant Grove and as far south as Provo. It had been incorporated in 1869 and reached Lehi Junction in 1871. If I could go back to the time of my birth and could choose my own birthplace, I am sure it would be Pleasant Grove. As I think of it today, there could have been for me no more desirable place in which to be born and no other place which could have given me the environment and the particular experiences I had there, and which I now prize so dearly.
Everything connected with my life up to my seventeenth year was centered in this small, interesting country town, which to me is a sacred place and will always be home. In those days of slow transportation and limited communication, country children in America lived a more or less lonely and detached life on isolated farms. 'This, however, was not the case in Utah, where the farm-village type of community which we now know so well, but which was unique at that time, was_ established at the outset.
There was no village life among American farmers anywhere else.
Here the farmers lived together and in closely-knit units surrounded by the areas which they cultivated.
They went out to their farms to work during the day and returned in the evening. In the beginning, it had been quite necessary for them to settle together on the streams which furnished their water supply, and it had been very important for their safety that they live close enough together to protect themselves from the Indians.
This type of country life, thus early adopted, proved so satisfactory that it became the pattern wherever Mormons colonized. It was advantageous economically, socially, and religiously. It provided many types of profitable cooperation; made good schools and recreational facilities possible, which in those days were almost impossible among greatly scattered agricultural settlers; and it also made church-going easy and desirable. The story is told that in those early Page 5 days of isolated living on farms and wooded lands a certain farm woman became mentally ill, and her husband said he couldn't understand how she ever caught such a malady as she hadn't been away from the farm once in seventeen years. In the early Utah towns there were many features which contributed to healthy, normal life. The climate was especially good. The people were sturdy and industrious, and they lived in their own homes. Then, there were always the meetinghouses or churches, which were real community centers, and the schools with their recreational facilities.
There were also music, dramatic and literary societies, and community dances.
There was a friendliness and sociability difficult to provide where people live in scattered conditions or even in large cities. Thus, the children were protected from many of the temptations and evils of city life. In the beginning the settlers in Utah were mostly converts to the Latter-day Saint Church, from various states of the Union and from foreign countries.
Among these converts were educators, musicians, tradesmen, factory workers, craftsmen, farmers, dairymen, et cetera.
This variety in citizenship was an important factor in the development of the communities and in the culture of the people. In Pleasant Grove in my childhood there were a number of the original Utah pioneers, also members of the Mormon Battalion and of Zion's Camp.
These persons had all lived in Nauvoo and had experienced the persecutions there and also the persecutions in Missouri.
There were Indian war veterans and western explorers.
There were many interesting foreigners -Scandinavians, Englishmen, Irishmen, Welshmen, Scots, and Germans.
These foreign-born citizens made us acquainted with the old world, and they, together with the pioneers and returned missionaries,  thrilled us with recitals of their experiences.
Could one find a more interesting environment in which to live? One of the rare occasions in our town was when Brother Philo Dibble, of Springville, came on his periodic visits to present his illustrated lecture on early Mormon history. He had great canvasses ten feet or more high, as I remember them, upon which were painted thrilling scenes with almost life-size figures. These, together with his dramatic descriptions and narratives, held us children spellbound. The scene of the martyrdom at Carthage Jail was so real and was so vividly stamped upon my mind, that whenever I have since visited this historic place I have in my imagination visualized the whole sad episode in all its details. For footlights Brother Dibble used to place a row of tallow candles, which were set up on a plank, at the base of the pictures, and these were lighted as the lecture was about to begin. In addition to the pictures, plaster of Paris busts of the Prophet and the Patriarch were displayed.
These he carefully wrapped in cotton batting while traveling.
Other outstanding events in the community were the celebrations held on July 4 and 24, when interesting street parades were featured and programs given.
There was no evidence of wealth in our community, nor were there any elegant homes, but we had high educational, moral, and spiritual 

  JANUARY, 1942 IN RETROSPECT standards. We had plain living, but high thinking.
Next in importance to the earning of a livelihood was the proper rearing of children.
Providing educational opportunities for children was regarded as highly important. A school was opened the same year the village was founded. The first settlers arrived in September, 1850, and located in a grove of cottonwood trees on Battle Creek.
There were seven families in the company, and that first winter they all went to school men, women, and children. In the group was a teamster, fairly well-educated for that period, who had been hired by a widow lady to drive her teams across the plains. He decided to spend the winter in the valley and was engaged to teach the school. In my childhood and youth we had a good elementary school, but no high school. In fact, at that time, there were no high schools in Utah, and after finishing the elementary schools, in order to get more education children had to be sent away to the Brigham Young Academy at Provo or to the University of Utah in Salt Lake City, both of which gave advanced educational courses including normal training. All of my father's children who lived beyond childhood (sixteen in number) had the opportunity of attending school at the Brigham Young Academy, as did those of many other families. I have heard both Dr. Karl G.
Maeser and Dr. George H.
Brimhall say that in those early days Pleasant Grove sent more young people to the Brigham Young Academy than did any other town of its size in Utah.
Arriving late in the fall, 7 My father, John Brown, born in 1820, was one of the original pioneers of Utah. He was captain of the thirteenth ten in Brigham Young's company, and, with this first group of pioneers, arrived in Salt Lake Valley July 24, 1847. He was. But twenty-seven years of age at that time, and had already crossed the plains as far west as Pueblo the year before (1846) as one of the leaders of the Mississippi Saints.
These southern Saints from Monroe County had been directed by President Brigham Young to start west in that year with the understanding that they would meet his company of pioneers on the - plains. Brigham Young's company, however, was delayed in Missouri due to the Mexican war and other unforseen events and, therefore, did not begin its famous journey until the next year.
When the Mississippi expedition learned from mountaineers and travelers at Pueblo that Brigham Young's company had not yet left the Missouri River, and that 500 members of the company had joined the army, forming the Mormon Battalion, and were now on their way to New Mexico, they decided to spend the winter in Pueblo.
Father and seven of his companions, however, returned to the East in the fall of 1846, and the next year he came with the pioneers to Salt Lake Valley. In the fall of 1847 he returned East again with Brigham Young and others, the main company remaining in Salt Lake Valley.
This was his fourth trip across the country. As pioneer, Church emigration agent, and missionary, he crossed the plains thirteen times with oxen and mule teams, and in 1867 and also in 1869 he made the same trip by rail. His best-loved animal was a mule named "Zeek." In his journal dated January, 1854, he records: "On Christmas night my black mule, 'Zeek,' died. He had taken me across the plains seven times and was the most faithful animal I ever owned." As emigration agent for the Church, father, during one season alone the summer of 1853 met in relays at New Orleans 2,548
Latter-day Saints, took them up the Mississippi in river boats to St. Louis, and there outfitted them with oxen and wagons for the journey across the plains. He served as bishop in Pleasant Grove for twenty-eight. Years, as mayor of the city for twenty years, and as state legislator for nineteen years.
Tennessee was his birthplace. He was the twelfth child in a family of fourteen. He was brought up in Illinois, where at the age of twenty he began teaching school with the view of earning money with which to.
Finish his education.
After he joined the Mormon Church, however, his schoolhouse was burned. He later located in Nauvoo, where he worked on both the Nauvoo House and the Nauvoo Temple.
From here he was sent on two separate missions to the Southern States. ' Father was deeply religious. To the end of his days he was devoted to the Church and to its leaders. No child of his was ever permitted, in his presence, to criticize the leaders of - the Church. He was a loyal and patriotic citizen of Revolutionary stock on both sides. His forebears thus helped to establish the Government of the United States. He had a fine intellect and was unusually well-read. He was a man of rare judgment. He was gentle, well balanced, and had excellent poise. I never saw him angry. He could become indignant at injustice and wrongdoing, and did not hesitate to let this be known, but he believed that emotional upsets and temper tantrums were infantile reactions, most unbecoming, later regretted,. And always to be avoided. We were taught as children to try always to control ourselves and be masters of unpleasant situations. On my visit to the commencement exercises of the University of Michigan a few years ago, I was asked by one of my husband's classmates about the type of men the Mormon pioneers were. She had been reading some books which had made her very curious about Brigham Young and his early associates. I told her that in my early life I had met a number of these men and admired them, but that there was one with whom I was especially well acquainted, and that was my own father. I told her he was one of the cleanest, sweetest, and most righteous men I had ever seen a man with no bad habits, one whose personal standard of living was of the highest order; that he would not indulge in anything of a low or degrading nature, nor would he associate with those who did. My mother, Margaret Zimmerman Brown, was born in Pennsylvania of German parents who had emigrated to this country from Wurtemburg, Germany. Her father, George G. Zimmerman, was educated in a German university, and was a teacher of languages. He served in the German Army in the Napoleonic wars and was taken a prisoner by the French.
After returning to Germany, and while he was still in the army, he made up his mind that he would 8 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JANUARY, 1942 IN RETROSPECT leave the country at the first opportunity because he was opposed to compulsory military training and hated war. He was determined not to rear his children in war-ridden Europe.
After coming to America, he taught languages in high schools and academies in Maryland and Pennsylvania.. My mother's mother was descended from the Hartman-Hoke families. The Hokes were from the middle class. The Hartmans were well-to do and were prominent in the aristocratic circles of Wurtemburg, where many of them held important positions.
Among them were writers, and leaders in political, professional, and educational fields. I shall mention several of them who lived between 1750 and 1890: John George Hartman was court counselor and secretary of the treasury to the Duke of Wurtemburg, and was said to be one of the most influential men in the Duke's service. Michael Hartman and John Frederick Hartman were city mayors. Eberhard Friedrich Hartman, my mother's great-grandfather, was a widely-known educator. His grandson, Karl Hartman, who came from this family of teachers which for 120 years without a break taught in one and the same community, was honored and beloved by all folk school teachers throughout Wurtemburg both for his knowledge and for his great activity in trying to improve the conditions of the teaching profession. In 1850 he was chosen to travel throughout Wurtemburg to study the proposition of advancing bright students by giving them special attention. As head of a normal training school he was sent in 1856 on a tour of Germany to visit the schools and to study the activities of the various states in the training of teachers. He was president of the Folk School Teachers' Association, and editor of the Folk School Teachers' Magazine. In the Wurtemburg parliament he was chairman of the committee appointed to study and revise the school laws.
After my mother's family joined the Church they left Pennsylvania and moved to Illinois, later coming to Utah where they arrived in May, 1851. My dear old grandfather, who spoke fluently German, French, and English, was also a Latin scholar. He loved learning and education and often said to his children, "While you children have been deprived of educational opportunities in this faraway western land where there are no high schools or colleges, you must see to it that your children do have these opportunities."
This ideal of my grandfather's was always held by my mother as a goal for us children. My mother was a partial invalid for a number of years, and during that time she directed the affairs of her household and in addition helped to solve the social and economic problems of many of her friends. She was forceful, dynamic, and efficient, yet she was tender and sympathetic. A strict disciplinarian, she kept both her children and her house "in order."
Some might have thought that she dominated the lives of her children and required too much of them, and probably this was the case, but she was so wise and farseeing, and her judgment was so good, that we had more confidence in her ideas than we had in our own, and usually were willing to accept any plan she had for us without much argument. She was a woman's woman and always maintained that girls should have equal opportunities and privileges with boys.
Mother was one of twelve children, and herself gave birth to ten children. She was born in 1836 and lived exactly ninety-three years.
Following is an extract from a tribute paid to my mother at her funeral by Miss Alice L. Reynolds: "When the day came that I was asked to spend the weekend in the Brown home, I shall never forget the welcome I received when I met Sister Brown. It was hospitality of the highest order. She took me in as a daughter, and from that first meeting to the last time that I ever saw her, it was always sympathetic understanding. And today I stand here before you as a representative of a host of young men and young women in Israel who have shared her home and know of her loving and helpful interest that all who shared it will treasure throughout their lives. We, with her own children, will call her name blessed to the very last generation."