[Vol29 | January 1942 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Happenings Cannon]

35 HAPPEN Annie Wells Cannon NGS To love the Lord and have faith in His infinite mercy gives one courage to meet any emergency. LADY LOUISE MONTAGU, beautiful daughter of the Duke of Manchester, along with a number of other titled ladies, has been working for months in a London tool factory. She says, "There is no reason for titled women to expect praise or favors; all should serve alike in times like these." LOTTIE LEHMANN, Metropolitan soprano, often called "The first lady of song," said when taking out her American citizenship papers, "America is the only soil on which art can thrive." Lily Pons, French-born artist, and Olivia De Havilland, also foreign-born, seemingly have the same opinion, as they, too, have become American citizens. MARY LEILA BAELS, when she became the wife of Leopold III, King of the Belgians, was given to understand that only the children of Atrid, Leopold's first wife, could succeed to the throne.
That should be the least of her worries. IVY LOW LITVINOV, wife of the new Soviet ambassador to the United States, is an English-born aristocrat and a woman of distinguished literary attainments. As official hostess at the "Red Embassy" she has one of the most attractive and interesting homes in Washington. CAROLINE HASLETT, special advisor to Lord Benim and one of England's most important women Page 36 is director and organizer of England's Electrical Association. She lectured in the United States this winter on the wartime industrial effort of 4,000,000
British women. ME. D. D. RICHARDS, 84, a wheelchair invalid, industriously knits sweaters for the soldier boys; while Sarah Chapel Bennett, 97, Jane T. Bleak, 96, and Julia D. Rawlins, go, remarkable for their longevity and activity, received honors recently on their respective birthdays. [SABEL WHITNEY SEARS, 93, who died last month, was born in a covered wagon on the bank of City Creek. She was a charter member and past president of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers. Another prominent daughter of Utah pioneers who died recently was Maud Rosalie Driggs Christensen, 64, an ardent worker in Church and civic. Affairs. Minnie Horne James, another pioneer daughter and Relief Society worker, also died last month. ANNE PARISH'S new book Pray for Tomorrow, and Windswept by Mary Ellen Chase are two of the best books from a literary standpoint published last year, while Boot-Heel Doctor by Fannie Cook is an interesting sociological novel. Ellen Spring by Elizabeth Marion and Women in Crime by Florence Monohan, prison warden, are well worth while.