[Vol28 | November 1941 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Officers Meeting Lyman]

The officers' meeting preceding the Wednesday afternoon department session featured with great effectiveness a round-table discussion on "Problems in Relief Society Teaching," conducted by Dr. M. Lynn Bennion, assisted by Florence I. Hyde, Ensign Stake; 'Thelma J. Ryser, Bonneville Stake; Gwen Jones, Salt Lake Stake; Mae S. Best, Highland Stake.
Magazine space for the conference proceedings does not permit reproduction of the full text of the discussion, but the problems in Relief Society teaching presented during the discussion, and the suggestions made concerning them, are summarized and presented on page 743, of this issue of the Magazine.
Mimeographed copies of "Mediums and 'Types of Humor," were distributed at the literature meeting.
Stakes which did not obtain a copy of this bulletin at the conference may do so upon request to the office 'of the General Board, so long as the supply lasts. In her opening address at the general session in the Tabernacle on the following afternoon, President Lyman informed the thousands in attendance that the méetings of the previous day, featuring the educational work of the Society, had constituted a comprehensive teachers' institute. She spoke of the high standards of Relief Society study courses and expressed appreciation for the mighty work being accomplished through the devotion, earnestness, and efficiency of Relief Society class leaders throughout the Church. She said, "They are not only presenting to us members interesting and valuable facts and in- 

 —NOVEMBER, 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE formation, but they are helping us to improve our lives, our attitudes, our habits of thought and action; in other words, helping us to live more effectively.
They are also helping us to understand, love, and appreciate the Gospel. 'As general and local officers, our advice to our class leaders is the same as that which was given by President Brigham Young to Karl G.
Maeser when the latter was sent to Provo to help establish the Brigham Young University, and this advice they are following. President Young said to Brother Maeser, in substance: Let the Gospel permeate all your teaching; do not attempt to teach even the multiplication table without the spirit of the Lord." Summarized Report of Proceedings A condensed account of the 735 proceedings of the conference, presented according to the order of meetings listed in the schedule on page 730, follows.