Happiness Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964] HlapPINEss is the purpose and design of existence. To gain happiness and to contribute to the happiness of others are foremost goals of living. A happy and contented life has been called "the eternal quest of mankind." To be happy is the ultimate goal of all ambition, all endeavors, all hopes and plans. True happiness stems from a quality within ourselves — a quality that is both innate and acquired. Happiness comes from within and is mostly simple goodness and a clear conscience. No one can be happy without some feeling of satisfaction with himself. In a searching self-scrutiny one usually finds much to be done to bring about this satisfaction with oneself. Self-discipline is a necessary ingredient. As Abraham Lincoln once said, "Most folks are about as happy as they make up their minds to be." Almost every human being can be happier than he is. A more optimistic. Outlook, greater altruism, vigorous social service, facing life's realities and difficulties with firmness, and having a zest for living, characterize the happy person. A sense of humor is necessary. It is sometimes hard 'to realize that, for the most part, one makes his own happiness. While happiness comes from within ourselves its focus must needs be outside ourselves. We must seek it unselfishly, finding ways to bring joy to others. Loving service brings a wealth of joy in return. This we know to be true, for experience has shown us that if we have hurt someone that hurt clouds the sun for us until it is remedied. Contentment is one phase of happiness, contentment with life as it is lived. "To be content with what we possess is the greatest and most secure of riches" (Cicero). This does not deny ambition, preparing for a better life, desiring more of the riches of this world. This does not mean we have to stay at the same level. Rather, contentment is the joy of being happy with what we have along the way. Many young couples with the husband still in school live in rather meager circumstances, yet live in deep contentment. They are preparing for more plenteous living but are happy along the way. There are always those who believe that happiness can be bought; that money, possessions, things to be owned, places to go automatically bring happiness. This is seldom true. "Money may buy the husk of things, but not the kernel. It brings you food but not appetite, medicine but not health, acquaintances but not friends — days of joy but not peace or happiness," according to Henrik Ibsen. Before one sets his heart upon something it would be well to examine how happy they are who already possess it. One definition of happiness for thoughtful examination is: "Thehappiest person is the person who thinks the most _ interesting thoughts." "How essential it is," taught William Lyon Phelps, "to be able to live inside a mind with attractive and interesting pictures on the walls." What a delightful way of reminding us that what we are within may grow more beautiful with the advancing years if we have stored treasures of study, experience, and education in our minds. Nothing exceeds the beauty and happiness of plain living and high thinking. Work, work that is interesting, work that we love is happiness. No one is happy who does nothing. Idleness is anything but happiness. Few persons realize how much of their happiness is dependent upon their work; good hard work that affords an outlet for all their talents and abilities. Real life is love, laughter, and 814 work. To accomplish, to achieve and exceed our goal — this, too, is happiness. Happiness comes to us in many ways. There are moments of transcending happiness, and many moments of quiet happiness in simple, ordinary things. Someone has said that you should not seek happiness as if it were the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow, but among people living a full rewarding life. Each day should bring its own rewards. "Faith is the foundation of all things, including happiness," jis one of President David O. McKay's "Ten Rules to Happiness." With faith nothing is impossible. The peace of mind and serenity of heart that are necessary come through faith in the Lord and understanding and living the gospel. Religious principles are engrained in the hearts of truly happy people. The deepest joys are spiritual in nature. Happiness is love at home. The wealth, fame, power, or riches of the world cannot compare with the joy of love between husband and wife shared and enhanced by loved and loving children. No peace is so sweet, no security so firm, no joy so complete as love at home. This kind of love was with us in our heavenly home before we came to the world and will be with us in our eternal home and family life. True happiness then is love, contentment, self - discipline, work, service, enlightenment, faith, and the blessings of our Heavenly Father. May we all live to experience happiness in its fullest measure.