Report and Official President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General ConInstructions PRESIDENT B ELLE S. SPAFFORD DELIVERING REPORT ference, September 30, 1964]: >,, ' —? Seated back of President Spafford, left to right: Sara |. Tanner, wife of President N. Eldon Tanner; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; Counselor Louise W. Madsen; President Joseph Fielding Smith, Adviser to Relief Society; Jessie E. Smith, wife of President Smith; ida J. Romney, wife of Elder Romney; Elder Marion G. Romney, Adviser to Relief Society. AX regular feature of the Officers Meeting of the General Relief Society Conference is a report of the status of the organization as revealed in the annual report for the previous year, together with new official instructions and a few suggestions from the General Board relative to the conduct of the work of the Society. Figures for 1963 show growth of the organization in both the stakes and missions, and accomplishments reflect good leadership on the part of Relief Society presidents and other officers. ORGANIZATIONS At the close of 1963, there was a total of 389 stake Relief Societies, an increase of thirty-eight over 1962. There was a total of seventy-four mission Relief Societies, an increase of five over the previous year. There were eight new mission district Relief Societies created, making a total of 362. Since , eleven new stakes have been created and two new missions, making a present total of 400 stakes and seventy-six missions, which for the most part, are represented here today. At the close of 1963 there was a total of 6,353 ward and branch Relief Societies, an increase of 362. MEMBERSHIP At the close of 1963 there was an enrollment of 262,002 women, an increase of 13,836 — of whom approximately 3,000 were nonLatter-day Saints. It is recognized that this substantial membership increase has been the result of intensive effort, wisely directed by Relief Society presidents. Relief Society membership is so vital to Latter-day Saint women that presidents are urged to con- 'tinue to be aware of the importance of enlisting as members all Latter-day Saint women within the respective wards, and of bringing into activity the sisters who, for one reason or another, have become inactive. Women, generally speaking, are anxious to contribute their talents and skills to worthwhile programs, if they feel they are genuinely needed. Such contributions from nonmembers or inactive sisters should be invited. They often result in women becoming active members. The work meeting, the Singing Mothers choruses, bazaars, social activities offer excellent opportunities for such contributions. The compassionate services ofttimes require sisters with special skills and aptitudes. Nonmember or inactive sisters may be enlisted for these 816 services. 'T'wo-session Relief Societies, for which instructions are available at the General Board offices, have been found helpful in some wards in increasing membership, particularly where there are a number of working women. Well-conducted nurseries make possible the enrollment and attendance of mothers with young children who otherwise might feel they could not affiliate with Relief Society. As an aid to Relief Society in conducting good nursery programs, the General Board now has available for purchase at the General Board Office a nursery kit which includes a booklet entitled "Our Relief Society Nursery — Book II," and also a book and cut-outs for a one-yearprogram unit entitled 'Living in Jesus' Day." The cost of the kit is $2.25. The Home Teaching Program of the Church provides a valuable new avenue for enlisting women as active members of Relief Society. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents acquaint themselves through their bishops with procedures in making use of this resource. ATTENDANCE Attendance increases are gratifying. During 1963 there was in excess of 7,000 more women present at the regular weekly meetings than during the previous year. EDUCATION Figures show that last year 22,182 class leaders brought spiritual and intellectual development to the Society's 262,002 members. Courses of study were well received and met the interests and needs of the sisters. The theology course for 1964- 65 is a continuation of the study of the Doctrine and Covenants, beginning with Section 76 through 87. The Doctrine and Covenants represents the revelations of the Lord to us in this dispensation, and the sisters have a responsibility to themselves and their families to be familiar with this volume of scripture. The visiting teacher messages, "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants," from the sections to be studied in theology, present, emphasize, and illustrate specific character and personality traits necessary in the conduct of a Latter-day Saint life. The literature course for 1964- 65 is entitled, "The Individual and Human Values as Seen Through Literature." The Relief Society General Board has provided for use in the literature course, for the two years ahead, a textbook entitled "Out of the Best Books," compiled and edited by Dr. Bruce B. Clark, currently Chairman of the Department of English at Brigham Young University, with a chapter written by Robert K. Thomas, a fellow English teacher with Dr. Clark. The textbook may be _ purchased from the Deseret Book Company at the nominal price of $2.95 per copy. Remittance must accompany order. As you know, each Society is authorized to purchase from its funds a copy of the textbook for the use of the class leader. The General Board, however, suggests the desirability of class members as well as class leaders owning their own copies REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS of this text. Not only will this make the lesson discussion more interesting and beneficial, but the book will prove a valuable addition to the home library. The social science course, "Divine Law and Church Government" is concluded during the forthcoming season. The following interesting comment on the course "Divine Law and Church Government" was recently made to me by the president of an overseas stake: "A number of problems formerly encountered with officers who were new in the Church seem to have cleared away as we have studied the lessons on Church Government." NEW COORDINATED COURSE OF STUDY A special announcement relative to a new series of lessons designed to help mothers support their husbands in teaching the gospel in the home, will entail some modification in plans for the work meeting discussions for 1964-65, as well as modifications in a few procedures presently being followed. It is the desire of Church leaders to make a concentrated effort to strengthen parents in teaching the gospel in the homes. In harmony with recommendations from the Church Correlation Committee, a series of twelve lessons for use in Relief Society, beginning in , have been prepared to coordinate with a series of lessons to be used by the Melchizedek Priesthood. In order to accommodate this course, the following procedures' will be followed: (1) Work meeting discussions for October, November, , will be presented as announced in the June Magazine. The last five of this series of discussions will be reserved for use later. (2) In lieu of these five discussions, planned for January through , the new coordinated lessons will be taught in the work meeting, the first of which will be published in the November Magazine. The comprehensiveness of these new lessons makes it seem advisable to allow thirty minutes for their presentation in the work meeting rather than the twenty minutes recommended for the present discussions; (3) Beginning in , the new coordinated lessons will become the social science course and will be presented by the social science class leader October through May, at the regular social science meeting. During the summer months, they will be presented by the social science class leader in the summer' work meeting, in a thirty minute period. As you know, no lesson is planned for the fourth week in December. It will be necessary, therefore, to reverse the order of the social science and literature meetings beginning , in order to accommodate the twelve lessons planned for the coordinated social science course. Only seven lessons will be planned for literature for the 1965-66 year. The new coordinated lessons will be under the direction of the education counselor. It is recommended that the sisters who teach the coordinated lessons in the work meeting meet in the social science department at the 818 leadership meeting January through , and that a portion of the time be used to assist these class leaders. In other words, the stake social science class leader will assist ward class leaders in both the course on Divine Law and Church Government and on the new coordinated lessons. LESSONS FOR INDIAN RELIEF SOCIETIES In order to be more helpful to the sisters of the Indian Relief Societies, a lesson manual for the use of these Societies is being issued by the General Board and is available at the General Board office, price $1.25 per copy. The manual contains three sets of lessons as follows: Theology — eight lessons from The Book of Mormon Literature — eight lessons on Latter-day Saint Church History Social Science — seven lessons on The Essentials for Happy Family Living A set of fourteen pictures; a map for use in the Church history course; and a chart dealing with The Book of Mormon plates suitable to augment the Indian lessons, cost $2.75 plus postage, are available at the Deseret Book Company. Stakes and missions having Indian Relief Societies are urged to encourage their use of these lessons. They should purchase the manual and the visual aids and make regular use of these materials. Some of the Indian sisters may desire to purchase the manual for themselves. A sufficient number has been prepared to allow for this. Indian Relief Societies will use the new coordinated lessons be- ginning in 1965, following the plan as outlined above. NO HANDWORK DURING LESSON PRESENTATIONS A question which has persisted through the years is as follows: May the members do handwork during the presentation of the lessons? The General Board in no way alters the position taken on this matter as early as 1940, which is as follows: The sisters should not engage in sewing or any type of handwork in any Relief Society meeting except the work meeting, which is primarily for these activities. To engage in handwork during the presentation of a lesson divides the attention of the class member, it is not conducive to her active participation in the lesson, since she is less inclined to raise her hand, set aside her handwork, and stand to make her contribution. It is often distracting to a class leader or neighboring class member and carries with it an element of discourtesy.