FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Directions for Submitting Notes From the Field Tue Notes From the Field section of The presents through pictures and descriptive paragraphs the varied group activities and accomplishments of Relief Society organizations in the stakes and missions of the Church. All material for this department should be addressed to the Editorial Department of The , and be submitted by stake Relief Society presidents or mission supervisors or presidents. Due to space restrictions, not more than one picture from a stake or mission can be presented during a calendar year. Pictures of an individual cannot be used in this department. Due to the considerable duplication of some special aspects of Relief Society work in the material submitted by stakes and missions, the General Board reserves the right to select pictures which represent a variety of interests. Time of Submission The picture, with complete information, should be submitted as soon after the event as possible, but cannot be used in the Magazine if it is received later than two months after the event. Information to Be Included The date of the event should be listed, and the names of Relief Society officers and others who have fulfilled special assignments with reference to the function or event should be listed. A woman's given name and her last name should be used, not her husband's given name (i. E., Ellen Jackson, not Sister Fred Jackson). In the case of a Singing Mothers group, the names of the chorister and the accompanists, as well as stake and ward officers present, should be given. Do not list more than fifteen names for any one picture. The identifications should read from left to right. No information except the name of the stake or mission written lightly so as not to deface the picture should be given on the back of the picture. Additional information may be included in the letter of submittal or written on a separate page. Preparations for Taking Picture It is suggested that wherever possible a professional photographer be engaged to take the picture. In arranging the group to have the picture taken, be sure that all the faces are visible. Seat the sisters in short rows, so that the faces will be visible. Where handwork or food is displayed, special attention in arranging the background will be helpful, as light-colored articles will not show up well against a light background. Puget Sound Stake (Washington) Conducts 'Friendship Fair' May 22, 1964 This display of lovely quilts and other articles of handicraft from the Bremerton Second Ward, is representative of the many booths and displays which made this "Fair" an outstanding event, long to be remembered in Puget Sound Stake. Ethel B. Whiting, President, Puget Sound Stake Relief Society, reports: "We sent out and personally distributed 1,000 invitations, not just in Tacoma; but all over the stake, with the help of the presidents and visiting teachers. We had a fifty-minute program at one o'clock in the afternoon, and repeated it at seven o'clock in the evening, with a member of the stake presidency speaking at both programs. A group of fifty Singing Mothers from six wards sang 'Why a Singing Mother Sings' and 'Beside Still Waters.' A panel of four sisters described Relief Society in an appealing and instructive way by means of a question and answer demonstration. The dramatization was written by Violet Nerdin, stake social science class leader. "The cultural hall was beautifully decorated with ferns and spring flowers to represent a garden path. The booths were arranged around the hall, and work displays were placed on tables on the stage, with others below the stage. Two sisters demonstrated cake making at one table, and two more showed how to make gifts out of felt from simple patterns. Beautiful original oil paintings and pastels brought many comments. The handwork was varied and outstanding. In the patio, small tables, covered with blue and gold cloths, were grouped. Two large serving tables were arranged most attractively with punch, cookies, open-faced sandwiches, and fruit breads. There were about 350 in attendance." Mount Graham Stake, Lordsburg Ward (New Mexico) Relief Society Honors First Executive Officers, May 5, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Lillie May Malone, First Counselor; Mabel A. Lines, President; Edith B. Bradberry, Second Counselor; Fannie A. Hill, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, standing, left to right, present officers: Helen G. Richins, First Counselor; Betty Joe B. Farnsworth, President; Maxene R. Jones, Second Counselor. Sister Hill, in the front row, is presently serving as secretary-treasurer. Millie Kelly, President, Mount Graham Stake Relief Society, reports: "This special event honored the first executive officers and also commemorated the thirty-ninth birthday of the Lordsburg Relief Society, which was organized May 5, 1925. This was the first time these four sisters had been together since . What a wonderful reunion! "The program, including a short history of the time these four women served together, was presented by Ruth B. Barnes of Safford, Arizona. A song "Teach Me, Lord,' was beautifully rendered by the Singing Mothers, and a poem composed by Bishop Allen A. Hill was read by him. A skit 'Ye Are on the Lord's Errand' was presented by Helen G. Richins, Grace T. Wright, Louise K. Lytle, Lola D. Richardson, June H. Hill, Elna M. Pace, with Ora P. Nelson at the piano. "Another highlight of the evening was the reviewing of a book on the history of the Lordsburg Relief Society since its organization, complete with pictures of every executive officer, and all other officers and class leaders, except eleven. Several group pictures were also shown. The material was collected and compiled by Fannie A. Hill.