RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	BY [-]h[-] offic rs and members of the Relief Soci-
ety of Nephi, Juab Co., Utah.
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to take from our midst our
beloved President, William Paxman,
	RESOLVED, That we recognize in his death the
loss of a father, a wise counselor and a friend.
	RESOLVED That we treasure up in our minds
and ever hold sacred the wise counsel he has
given, and strive to follow his example ever true
to the cause he so nobly and fearlessly de[-]ended.
	RESOLVED, That we tend[-]r our love and heart
felt sympathy to the bereaved family, his wives
and children and earnestly desire that the Holy


[Column 1]
Spirit may impart comfort and consolation in this
the hour of their sad afflic ion.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the members of his family, a copy to the
“Woman’s Exponent,” also one be placed upon
the records of the Society of each ward of Nephi.
			MARY PITCHFORTH, Pres.
			ELLEN L. GOLDSBROUGH Sec.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Emma Johnson Spa
ford who departed this life Oct. 9, 1897, after a
brief illness of only a few hours. Sister Spafford
was a gentle, unassuming Saint, the guardian
angel of her own home circle making it a para-
dise on earth for those with whom she was there
associated.
	For years she filled the position of president of
the Relief Society of A nabella, and by her
sweet charity and humility gained the sincere
love and confidence of all who knew her. On
Dec. 14, 1890, she was called to the position of
second counselor to the president of the Relief
Society of Sevier Stake, which position she filled
with unswerving integrity until the time of her
death.
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst our beloved sister and co- 
worker,
	RESOLVED. That we the members of the Stake
board of the Relief Society of Sevier Stake, feel
that we have lost a true and faithful worker who
was always willing to do good.
	RESOLVED, That we cherish her memory and
regard her wise counsel as worthy of emulation.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to her family, one published in the “Woman’s
Exponent” and one placed upon the Stake record
of the Relief Society.
					CELIA E. BEAN, Sec.
Richfield, Utah, Oct. 27, 1897.
MARY DEER DAVIES.
	IT is with feelings of heartfelt sorrow that we
record the death of our beloved president, Sister
Mary D[-]er Davies who expired at the residence of
her daughter in Samaria, Idaho, Nov. 13, 1897,
after an illness of less than two days. Sister
Davis was born in Nearth Abbey, Glamorganshire,
South Wales, March 18, 1831, embraced the Gos-
pel in 1849, and shortly afterwards assisted in
translating the Book of Mormon into the Welsh
language.
	She emigrated in 1854, and was married the
same year to David Woodwell Daveis. She made
her home with her husband in Salt Lake City en-
during all the hardships incident to the times. In
1864 her husband died leaving her with a young
family, dependent upon her own exertions.
In 1870 she married John Evans Price and re-
moved w[-]th him to Samaria, Idaho, where she
continued to reside until her death.
	When the Y. L. M. I. A. was first organized in
Samari, she was chosen president, but did not re-
tain the office long, being called to preside over
the Relief Society in 1878, which position she has
filled honorably and efficiently for nearly twenty
years. She was the mother of ten children, seven
sons and three daughter, five of whom survive
her.
	She was a faithful Latter-day Saint, yielding
obedience to every principle of the Gospel that
was revealed to her and maintaining her integrity
to the last. She has finished her work, she has
borne her cross, she has gone to receive her
crown. We have laid her down to rest in peace,
		“Till the rising sun,
		Of the resurrection morn
		Proclaims li[-]e’s victory won.”
						ANNIE BOWEN.
JANE BELL.
	MRS. JANE PELL, an age and highly esteemed
lady of Heber, [-]ied at the residence of her son
William in Bu[-]syille, Nov 7, 1897, at the ripe age
of seventy-four years, one month and twenty-six
days.
	Deceased was the daughter of Charles and
Mary Graham and was born in Amien, Scotland,
Sep. 13, 1823 During her journey to Utah she
buri[-]d her first husband, Frank Ladlaw, and two
sons. She was afterwards married to Wm. Bell
in Salt Lake City who preceded her in death
about twelve years.
	The funeral obsequies of Sister Jane Bell were
held in the Stake house of Heber, Wasatch Co.,
Nov. 9, 1897, and were largely attended notwith-
standing the inclement weather Sister Bell
leaves two sons and two daughters and many
grandchildren as well as a host of friends to
mourn her loss.

[Column 2]
	Sister Bell, better known as Grandma Bell, was
an earnest worker in our Relief Society. She
labored diligently in whatever she was called up-
on to do, always trying to comfort and soothe
others and encourage them in the Gospel. She
was faithful to the very last, her main utterances
being prayers and her last request was for her
sons to stay with the Priesthood She was of
that kind and loving disposition that none can
help but admire.
	We as members of the Relief Society of the
Heber West ward feel that we have lost one of
our most faithful members, but we realize that
she has gained a reward well earned and we
would not call her back, but will ever cherish and
crown with fond remembrances, her name.
		NETTIE MCMULLIN, Sec. pro tem.


