PRENATAL INFLUENCES.

	In the American Text Book of Obstetrics
we find the following: “There exists a
popular belief which was particularly preva-
lent during early times, that the peculiar
sensations, emotions, sights etc., experi-
enced by a pregnant woman are frequently
transmitted to her child, and if these sights
and impressions are particularly frightful
they cause marks and defects on the child.
One of the arguments advanced in favor of
this view is that a belief so universal is
rarely entirely fallacious, especially when
the subject is based upon observation.
	At the present time authors, practition-
ers and teachers differ, but up to the begin-
ning of the 18th century they were nearly
unanimous in the belief that birth marks,
deformities and lack of development phy-
sically and mentally were due to impressions
received from the mother.
	During the past forty years many articles
have been written strongly opposed to the
previously accepted theory of prenatal influ-
ence.
	It has always been extremely difficult to
demonstrate that any deformity or lack of
development in the child was due to an im-
pression which the mother may have re-
ceived before its birth inasmuch as there
seems to be at least one very strong argu-
ment, in that we find no direct nerve con-
nection existing between the mother and
child.
	We must conclude, however, that there
are some unknown laws operating to in-
fluence the unborn child, for in this way
are family traits and features kept in exis-
tence and in this way are the traits, charac-
ters and dispositions of races perpetuated
from one generatron to another.
	But the vital point under discussion is
this:—to what degree are the characters
and dispositions of mankind affected by
prenatal influences?
	From the testimony of the best observers
from the historical and scientific witnesses

[Column 2]
on this subject we can safely say that the
characters and dispositions of mankind are
influenced very much by the conditions
which operate during the period of gesta-
tion. The late Fordice Barker has been
credited with demonstrating the correctness
of the theory of maternal impressions in a
paper read in 1886, before the American
Gynecological Society.
	Let us imagine a mother surrounded with
the most pleasant and happy conditions,
having proper daily habits, refined, intelli-
gent, full of reverence for God, the Great
Creator, loving all good things especially
the little helpless being given her to nourish
and bring into existence. Appreciating
the most glorious privilege of motherhood
and earnestly desiring to perfect herself in
every good quality she would desire her
child to possess.
	Then for a moment look at another wo-
man, immoral, uncleanly, profane, degraded
in thought and action, hating her unborn
child, in fact having murderous feelings to-
wards it. Now can it be possible for this
low, vile woman to bring into existence as
pure, healthy, intelligent, gifted, sweet-
tempered, lovable child as the former mother
referred to?
	For it is not only true that she could not
endow him with those desirable qualities
during his ante-natal life, but that she is
wholly unprepared to teach, guide and
direct his young mind either by example or
precept. And allowing that the prenatal
conditions wield a great influence on the
unborn child, it is also an established fact
that the teaching and training of a child
after birth determines to a great extent the
character, qualifications and avocation.
So as life produces life should it not be an
incentive to every true mother to aspire for
the highest, the purest, the best in all
things? Dr. Cowan says:
	“To have children is a thing greatly to
be desired; but to have children of well
balanced organizations, healthy, beautiful
and possessing the quality of genius in
some one or other direction, is something
every parent should long strive and work
for.”
	Why is it there is so much of the plain
and mediocre of mankind in the world?
Why is it that when there is one success in
life’s endeavor there are one thousand of
failures? Why is it that there is so much
sin, misery, suffering and premature death
and so little, so very little of genuine suc-
cess and happiness? Why is there so much
wrong in life, so little of the right? These
are important questions, yet easy of solu-
tion; for when it comes to be understood
that not more than one child in perhaps ten
thousand is brought into the world with the
consent and loving desire of the parents,
and that the other nine thousand, nine hun-
dred and ninety-nine children are endowed
with the accumulated sins of the parents, is
it any wonder that there is so much sin,
sickness, drunkenness, licentiousness, mur-
der, suicide and premature death, and so
little of purity, chastity, success, goodness
and long life in the world? The reforma-
tion of the world can never be accomplished
—the millenium of purity, chastity and in-
tense happiness can never reach the earth
except through cheerful obedience to pre-
natal laws.
	With educational institutions in the
world—all the benevolent, industrial and
reform societies—all the temperance soci-
eties and all the divines in the world com-

[Column 3]
bined and working harmoniously together
cannot do as much in a lifetime of effort in
the elevation of mankind, as can a mother
in nine months of prenatal effort.
	It is a noticable thing that in the ruling
and guiding of this world there is absolute- 
ly nothing done by chance, from the
growth of the smallest insect to that of the
largest quadruped; from the falling of a
sparrow to the death of a sinner or a
Christian; from the forming of the tiny
crystal of dew, to the laboring of the de-
structive hurricane. In all and through all
and over all is the working of God’s Omni-
potent presence—His unchangable and un-
deviating laws. In the production of off-
spring there too must be a law—a law of
right and wrong, and the non-observance
of this law entails on its violaters the pen-
alty of a sickly, effeminate, mediocre, short-
lived progeny, while its close observance
brings with it an approach to perfection in
form, feature and soul of the new born.
	The influence of a right birthright on the
future welfare of mankind is immense. A
statitican has estimated that every married
couple producing offspring may calculate
upon four millions of descendants in five
hundred years. And then the influence of
well-directed or mis-directed laws in the
conception of a new life does not stop at its
exit from this world. Oh no, it extends
into eternity. Give birth to a human
being under conditions that will make it an
imbecile or an idiot, and the parents or any
sane person will not think that after its
death it will in the next world, bloom into
a Shakespeare, a Milton or Bacon. Endow
a new life with a licentious, gluttonous,
unclean and wicked nature, and no right-
thinking observer will decide that as soon
as such a soul leaves this earth, it will take
on the garments of purity, innocence,
chastity and holiness. Therefore it be-
hooves all parents to see to it that they
learn the law, understand and practice it.
