SEVIER STAKE.
	THE semi-annual conference of the Sevier
Stake Relief Society convened at Richfield
Oct. 22 and 23, 1897, President Elizabeth
B. Bean presiding. An excellent spirit pre-
vailed throughout the conference, although
a spirit of sadness lingered in the hearts of
all present, caused by the recent death of
our beloved sister, Emma Spafford, second
counselor to the president of the Stake.
Many good instructions were given, the
principal speakers being President Bean,
Counselor Thurber, Sister Lucy Hepplar,
Patriarch George W. Bean and Presidents
Seegmiller and Horne.
	The subjects treated upon were Temple
work, the building of a Relief Society house
in Salt Lake, the storing of grain, the care
of our children etc. etc.
	Thirteen presidents each reported her
Society in good condition, active and ener-
getic in good works.
	The conference adjourned for six months
and the sisters departed for their homes,
feeling to praise and thank the Lord for
the feast of spiritual food He had given
them.

[Column 2]
	Ever praying for the success of the “Ex-
ponent” we remain
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
			ELIZABETH BEAN, Pres.
			CELIA E. BEAN, Sec.
	Richfield, Nov. 4, 1897.
DAVIS STAKE. 
	The Relief Society conference of Davis
Stake met at Kaysville Oct. 28, 1897,
President Susan Grant presiding. There
were present on the stand President Hess
and Counselor Hyrum Grant, Sisters J. C.
Howe and L. D. Alder from Salt Lake, Presi-
dent Grant and counselors and others.
Meeting opened by singing “Let us pray
gladly pray.” Prayer by Counselor Hy-
rum Grant. Singing “The spirit of God
like a fire is burning.” Minutes of pre-
vious conference read and approved.
	President Grant then said, “Through the
blessings of the Lord we are permitted to
meet again in this capacity. I am afraid
we do not appreciate the blessings the Lord
is continually showing to us My counsel-
ors and I visited the northern part of the
county, we had good meetings and found
them all doing well. I want to encourage
the sisters to take the “Exponent,” I am
pleased to have Sisters Howe and Alder
with us, also our Stake presidency. I feel
well in pressing forward in the line of my
duty.” The branches of the Society were
reported by their presidents as doing well
and in good running order.
	Sister Howe said she felt somewhat diffident
being a stranger but knew the spirit of the
Lord was with us. The Prophet Joseph
Smith said this Society should be free from
the wiles of the world. The Relief Society
is educational, every member should be
interested in it. If requirement is made of
us we should feel that it is a duty. Spoke
of sustaining home literature, encouraged
the sisters to sustain the “Exponent” and
those who are struggling hard to make a
success of it. We should teach our child-
ren the principles of the Gospel and keeping
the Sabbath holy. “I can say it is good to
be here, I ask God to bless each one of
you”
	Counselor Mary Clark said “I feel happy
in meeting with you, I can truly say the
spirit of the Lord is with us.” Spoke of
the Elders who are abroad preaching the
Gospel, said she rejoiced in reading their
letters and their success. We should be
thankful for the instructions we receive
and be benefited by them. Spoke of at-
tending our meetings, if we will we shall
be better prepared to attend to our duties at
home. Prayed that we might have health
and strength to perform our duties. Meet-
ing adjourned until 2 p. m. Singing Dox-
ology. Prayer by Brother Rouche.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Commenced by
singing “Now let us rejoice in the day of
salvation.” Prayer by President Hess.
Singing “Stop and tell me red man.”
Minutes of the afternoon meeting of the
previous conference read and approved.
	Sister Alder then addressed the meeting:
“My brethren and sisters we have been sent
to you to day as visitors in your Society
conference, and it is not only a duty but a
pleasure in visiting with you. When the
Prophet Joseph organized the Society he
did it as a pattern of the olden times, I think
these organizations existed in the days of
the Savior. Your reports have been ex-
cellent, what a testimony it is that so many
receive the Gospel in different parts of the

[Column 3]
world. When we do anything in the Re-
lief Society we are helping ourselves, these
meetings are just our own meetings and we
can work a little extra to attend them.
Spoke about passing away, said it is like
graduating from one class to another. The
young women will have to take the places
of the older ones. Advised them to take
counsel from their mothers, referred to
Sister Marinda Hyde, how they loved her
as a president, if we live as we should do
and listen to the still small Voice we will 
know what to do, we should be careful how
we train our children, if we raise them as
we should we will have them again even if
they do go astray. Wanted to bear her
testimony that this is the work of God and
asked him to bless us all. 
	President Hess said “I have enjoyed the
spirit of the counsel, it is true that these
meetings are for the women, but the breth-
ren should be interested in them too, I do
not know of anything that is more useful
than the Relief Society, the way they con-
duct their business is good, the minutes are
correct, they bring to our mind what was
said at the last conference.” Spoke about
the necessity of attending our meetings,
said we have it in our power to draw the
blessings of the Lord down upon us if we
live as we should, and we should live so
the Lord will draw near to us and hear and
answer our prayers. Prayed the Lord to bless
the sisters who were laboring so faith-
fully in this organization and to bless us all.
	Sister Alder said “I think there is not a
soul here but what has been benefited, there
is a bond that unites the sisters that work
together. We do need encouragement, it
would not do for us to see the obstacles
that are in our path. I ask my Heavenly
Father to bless you all.”
	Counselor Jane Holt said, “I am pleased
to meet with you and I know that the
spirit of the Lord is here. I can bear my
testimony to the truth of this work and to
what has been said. Let us be diligent and
do our duty, our path is the path of duty
and let us sustain all that are over us. May
God bless us and help us to do right.”
	Counselor Hyrum Grant said, “I am sure
all who are here are blest, and I can say
that I have never heard the presidents give
in their reports with as much freedom as
they have today, these sisters that have
come here today have had the faith and
prayers of the people. Now if we are for
the Kingdom of God let us sustain the
authorities and those that are over us. I
can bear my testimony that this is the
work of God and ask the Lord to bless us
all.”
	President Grant then made closing re-
marks and conference adjourned for three
months to East Bountiful. Benediction by
James Sheffield.
