LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall Saturday, Oct. 30, 1897, Sister E. J.
Stevenson presiding. Singing “O Jesus
the Giver.” Prayer by Sister Mary P.
Silver. Singing “O say what is truth.”
Sister Stevenson made some opening re-
marks, urged the sisters to read the scrip-
tures, especially the Book of Mormon, also
was very earnest in her advice to mothers
in regard to being careful what we said be-
fore our children, felt we had a great in-
fluence over those with whom we came in
contact and what an exertion we should
make to have that influence for good.
	The secretary having arrived the minutes
of the previous meeting were read and ac-
cepted.
	Sister Hannah Wright bore a most ex-
cellent testimony. Singing “The spirit of
God like a fire is burning.”
	Dr. E. S. Barney, who had been absent
from the city for about three months, felt
she had better give an account of her trip.
Said she had been in Colorado with her
brother and that they had had a very happy
time together. She told the sisters not to
be weary in well doing, and made some

[Column 2]
rousing good remarks, touched slightly on
politics.
	Sister Maria Nebeker said she had been
so much mixed up with temporal things
that she felt hungry for the spiritual. The
speaker thought that those who were born
in the Church were more careless than those
who had made greater sacrifices for the Gos-
pel’s sake; therefore she felt to have a
great deal of charity for the young. Asked
the sisters if they did not remember how
happy we were when we asked advice of
every kind when President Young was
alive, hoped those days would come again.
	Sister Martha Morris spoke of prayer,
said if our prayers were not answered in
just the way we expected them to be, the
Lord would show which was best for us.
	Sister Rawlings said she had been absent
for some time and bore her testimony. 
	Sister Maria Barnes spoke of her Temple
work and said when she was in the Temple
it was the happiest days of her life. Re-
ferred to a blessing Aunt Zina Young gave
her in the Temple and how it had been ful-
filled. Said her desire and intention was to
vote for good men,asked God’s blessings on
all our aged sisters and upon President
Woodruff.
	President Zina Young said she had heard
so many sermons today; every word which
had been uttered was a gem. Said she
heard Joseph Smith say that ‘‘he now turn-
ed the key for woman.” She knew that he
had and that we felt it now. Said those
who feared God often spoke one to another,
felt we were truly blest when we did come
together, and made many beautiful re-
marks. Said she knew our sisters were
good and urged the sisters to read the book
of Covenants. She felt proud of the
daughters of Zion and said it was her inten-
tion to visit her daughter in Canada, she
would be absent for some time. Asked the
sisters to pray for her that she might do
much good while there and also come back
home in safety. Prayed God’s blessings
upon us all.
	Sister Margaret P. Young spoke upon
unity and humility, and knew if the peo-
ple would all be more united the Lord
would bless us greatly.
	Sister Sarah Phelps spoke in tongues,
which was interpreted by Sister Elizabeth
Paul and was a prayer for the 
daughters of Zion and the rising generation.
	Sister Julia Samson spoke of the oppres-
sion which the people were laboring under
at the present time and felt that now was
the time which Brother Heber C. Kimball
prophecied of.
	Singing “The trials of the present day.”
Sister Lydia D. Alder felt the truthfulness
of President Woodruff’s remarks when he
said that the end was near. Read from the
Book of Nephi and the Book of Mormon,
felt that the chapter first read applied to us
today but felt that the Lord would work it
around all right for us if we would only be
obedient.
	Sister Mary Silver wondered if we appre-
ciated the privilege which we now enjoy of
having the franchise, felt we were indeed a
privileged people, bore her testimony.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson made a few clos-
ing remarks and announced that President
Horne was at a conference at Goshen.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “There is a feast of fat things” etc.
Benediction by Counselor Elizabeth Webb.

