	MRS. LILLIAN HACKETT CULVER of
Monida, Montana, recently paid a visit to
our city remaining a few days. Mrs.
Culver is a cousin of the late Gen. D. H.
Wells, and also something of a newspaper
correspondent. She was on her way East
to visit relatives in different states, Kansas,
Iowa, Illinois, New York, Massachusetts
and Maine. Mrs. Culver visited Salt Lake

[Column 2]
City in 1883 when Gen. Wells was living
and stayed for some time. In returning
after so many years she was surprised by
the many changes made in old residences
and public buildings. While here she
visited all the places of interest and was
greatly pleased with the Hall of Relics.
	ON Thursday Nov. 18, in company with
Sister E. S. Taylor, General President of
the Y. L. M. I. A., we had the pleasure of
visiting Logan and attending the confer-
ences of the Relief Society and the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Cache Stake. Both these confer-
ences were very entertaining and well at-
tended. The presidency of the Stake were
in attendance, one or more at each meeting,
also other brethren, and the various reports
from all parts of the Stake were quite satis-
factory and indicated the growth and im-
provement, being made in many departments
of organized effort. We expect to receive
the minutes for publication consequently
need not go into details, but will add that
we were delighted with the visit and in see-
ing some friends of early days, especially
some of Ezra T. Benson’s family. Sister
Adeline Benson at the great age of eighty-
four years, in fact she will be eighty-five
next March, retains her good looks and bet-
ter still all her faculties of mind and body;
although not able to go out very much she
converses well on the topics of the day,
reads the newspapers and keeps up with the
times.
	ON Saturday Nov. 20, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne’s birthday anniversary was celebrated
by a few of her intimate friends and co-
laborers at her home in this city. The oc-
casion was a happy one, although the num-
ber assembled was small in comparison to
the multitude of women, who would have
been pleased to honor and congratulate her
on attaining the great age of seventy-nine
years and retaining such good health and so
much of the vigor of life as to enable her to
perform the arduous labors devolving upon
her ln the various callings in which she
officiates among the organizations of the
women of Zion. The party resolved itself
into a meeting and Mrs. B. W. Smith was
chosen to preside. The sisters present each
expressed their love and appreciation of
Sister Horne and said many good things
calculated to stimulate her and each other
in good works and labors of love. Dr.
Elvira S. Barney read a paper prepared for
the veteran lady in whose honor the party
had met, which gave an epitome of the life
and labors of Sister Horne and of the pro-
gression of women in general, and what the
Gospel had done in uplifting mankind.
Many little gifts, mementoes of love and
friendship were given, and delicious refresh-
ments partaken of. Although not present
we also join in fervent congratulations,
hoping for Sister Horne increased vigor of
mind and body to pursue her labors among
the sisters in Zion, and that her very useful
life may be prolonged until her work on
earth is fully accomplished.
	THE Utah Kindergarten Association
gave one of its popular entertainments on
Friday evening Nov. 19, at the residence of
Mrs. Mina M. Cannon. The program was
an excellent one, some of the best home
talent proffered their services for “sweet
charity’s sake.” Mrs. Florence Marian
Dinwoodey who has studied music abroad,
also Miss Della Daynes who is a great favor-
ite and has a sweet, clear voice, Mr. Sales

[Column 3]
recently from London and others. The
superintendent, Mrs. Georgie F. Young,
and a few faithful co-laborers associated
with her have spared no effort or pains to
establish and sustain a Kindergarten in
Salt Lake City, for the training of the little
folks. It has been a great undertaking and
those who look on and criticise know noth-
ing comparatively speaking of the labor and
anxiety it has taken to do the little already
accomplished. If the people generally, and
especially the parents of the small children,
knew how beneficial this kind of training
would be they would assist with a will and
the few would not have to carry the burden
as they do now and have ever since the
enterprise was started. But the ladies are
grateful for the patronage they do receive at
the entertainments and lectures which have
been given, and still feel to persevere in the
good cause, trusting that the people in
general will soon become better acquainted
with the helpfulness of Kindergarten work.
	AN enjoyable reunion of the officers of
the Primary Association of Salt Lake Stake
and invited guests was held on Thursday
afternoon Nov. 18, in the 14th Ward Assem-
bly Hall. The affair was under the direc-
tion of the superintendent of the Primaries of
this Stake, Sister Camilla C. Cobb and her
board of assistants. It was the first event
of the kind and proved to be a delightful
social gathering. The decorations were in
charge of Sisters Ella W. Hyde and Kate
Wells and were very artistic and pleasing.
Nearly every ward in the Stake was repre-
sented by its respective officers. Presidents
Angus M. Cannon and Jos. E. Taylor were
present also Louie B. Felt, General Superin-
tendent and her first assistant, Lillie T.
Freeze and some of the members of her
board, Aurelia S. Rogers of Davis Stake,
and Sisters B. W. Smith, M. A. Freeze and
others. A very fine program had been
prepared and was well rendered. There
were solos, duets and recitations. Among
those that should be especially noticed were
Josie Morris, Frankie Young, Miss Tibbetts
and Shirley Penrose Jones. We have not
space for details but we are told it was a
very excellent entertainment. L. Lula
Greene Richards read an original poem that
she had written for the occasion, which was
very apropos and well received. Remarks
were made by several leading brethren and
guests which were full of encouragement
and due praise for the good work done by
the Primary Associations, and as a matter
of course delicious refreshments in abun-
dance were served to all present by the
young women and girls who are laboring
in this good cause. These good sisters who
spend time and study to make the Primary
Association a success are worthy of com-
mendation and praise for their diligence and
faithfulness in their calling, and we trust
the reunion will be an impetus to those
who are indifferent or unaware of the great
responsibility of those who have been called
to assist in this important work.


