WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
JUAB STAKE.
	THE seventy fourth quarterly conference
of the Relief Society of the Juab Stake was
held in the Nephi Tabernacle, Sep. 10,
1897, President Pitchforth presiding. Sing-
ing “Come we that love the Lord.” Prayer
by President Wm. Paxman. Singing
“Praise ye the Lord my heart shall join.”
Minutes of previous conference read and
approved.
	President Pitchforth was happy to have
the privilege of meeting with us, had en-
joyed listening to the minutes. Spoke of
the spirit of unity that prevailed with the
officers in the Juab Stake, desired that those
who should report would do so with the
spirit of God, and that we would have a
rich flow of that spirit in our midst. She
asked it in the name o[-] Jesus.
	Sister Wilbey, president of the 1st Ward
of Nephi, gave an excellent report of the
ward, the officers were diligent and a unity
of feeling was with them. Singing “When
Joseph his brethren beheld.”
	President Christenson of Levan gave a
good report, they were striving to keep the
commandments of God and do their duty,
the needy were well cared for. She felt
well in the Gospel and desired to do the
will of God.
	Sister Udall, president of the 2nd Ward
of Nephi, gave an excellent report, the
meetings were spiritual and well attended,
the needy were well cared for. The teach-
ers gave excellent reports, and they were
doing well temporally as well as spiritually.
Asked blessings upon all.
	Counselor Hannah Jones was thankful
to her Heavenly Father for health to meet
with us in conference, felt that all present
would rather hear Sister Wells than herself.
Urged the sisters to be faithful and true to
every duty required of them and asked the
Lord to bless all and comfort those who
had been called upon to part with their
loved ones. He alone can give comfort to
the sorrowing heart.
	Sister E. B Wells was glad to be with us
and to see those that were present, but
would have liked to have seen a great
many more. She had visited Sister Zina
Young to see if she had any message to
send to the sisters, and she sent her love
and said to encourage the young women to
help in the Relief Society. Spoke at some
length on the necessity of the young sisters
attending the Society and getting an under-
standing of the charitable work. Said the
young mothers should come and bring
their babies, and have faith that they could
keep them quiet. Spoke very nicely of
the children and said to teach the children
when they are young that they may grow
up pure and holy. Spoke of the informa-
tion needed to remove prejudice from the
women of the outside world concerning the

[Column 2]
Mormon women and the principles of the
Gospel, showing how necessary it was to
have a bureau of information. Spoke of
the need of having a building of that kind
in Salt Lake City for that purpose. Sister
Wells said she would like very much to
hear from President Paxman, prayed God
to bless our beloved Sister Pitchforth, felt
that she had been a very able president in
this Stake. Prayed the Lord to bless all
present and that we might continue in the
good work.
	President Paxman announced that we
would have an evening meeting and said
we had had an excellent time, the spirit of
peace had been with us and the love of God
had been in our midst. It was very grati-
fying to hear such reports as we had heard,
that the Saints were so liberal and the needy
so well cared for. He had been interested
and edified in listening to the remarks of
Sister Wells. She had a good chance of
meeting people that were not in our Church
and of giving the information needed, and
thought it must be something startling for
them to know of the revelations of God in
these days. He was pleased to know that
they were inquiring into these things, it
gave us an opportunity of testifying to the
work established by our prophet, Joseph
Smith. Referred to the storing of grain,
wished we had more of it. “This famine
we have talked about will surely come.”
Spoke of the suffering already in the world,
wished that all would be interested in the
storing of grain, said “God bless the babies;
bring the babies to meeting, I love them.”
Spoke of the young mothers attending the
Society, felt it would benefit them; this
Gospel would be preached to every nation,
tongue and people, and the Lord would
take His own way in doing it. He rejoiced
in all the organization of this Society, and
said “May God bless and sanctify to us all
that has been said.” Was glad to hear
good words spoken of Sister Pitchforth, we
knew her life and hoped the Lord would
spare her, invoked the blessings of God
upon all, asked it in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
	Counselor Kate L. Paxman announced
that it would not be necessary to vote the
Stake and Local officers every three months,
Sister Wells had said it was sufficient every
six months
	President Pitchforth announced that our
evening meeting would convene at 7:30
o’clock, had enjoyed the remarks of Sister
Wells and felt highly pleased with the re-
ports. Singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.” Benediction by Bishop Parks.
Conference adjourned until 7:30.
	EVENING SESSION: Meeting commenc-
ing at 7:30 o’clock, President Pitchforth
presiding. Singing “Redeemer of Israel.”
Prayer by Patriarch Udall. Singing “We
thank Thee O God for a Prophet.”
	Counselor Kate L. Paxman most earnest-
ly desired an interest in our prayers that the
Lord would let His spirit direct what she
might say. Spoke of the blessings ob-
tained by doing our duty and said the ex-
ample was good, in performing our duties
we strengthened each other. Endorsed
what Sister Wells had said about the young
sisters helping the older ones in the Society,
felt that the young mothers were willing to
do all they could to help, there were bless-
ings that could only be obtained by per-
forming our duties here. Prayed God to
bless us with His spirit.


Counselor Hannah Jones was pleased to
meet with us, although it had been a great
effort to come this evening. She was
pleased to hear Sister Wells speak of the
younger sisters becoming workers in the
Society, many of the Older members need
rest, and one by one they are passing away.
Said it was a pleasure to serve the Lord and
bore a faithful testimony of this work, had
been in the Church forty-seven years and
wished to live faithful to the end of her
life. Singing “Mid scenes of confusion.”
	Sister Wells said, “Brethren and sisters I
am very pleased to meet with you, and feel
led to speak of the Prophet Joseph.” Spoke
of his goodness of heart and said he was
one of the humblest of men, was so kind to
children. He loved to hear vocal music
and was fond of poetry, was also very fond
of flowers, thought his favorite flower was
the moss-rose. He loved to see a cheerful
countenance. Spoke of the opportunities of
our young people to become great women,
said the memory of Joseph Smith was sacred
to her and she felt particularly anxious that
ther young people should know of his
wonderful work and power. Related many
other interesting things of Joseph Smith the
prophet, how inspired be was. Spoke at
length on the necessity of the young peo-
ple being educated that they may be able to
take the place of the older members, also
upon humility and of the great blessings
enjoyed in this Church by all. Closed her
remarks by thanking the sisters for their
kind attention and invoked the blessings
of the Lord upon all.
	President Pitchforth felt that the time
had been well spent, bore testimony to all
that had been said by Sister Wells and re-
lated her first experience in this Church.
She desired to go on progressing to the end
of her life and gain the blessings in store
for the faithful. Said to store up grain,
we shall need it, and asked the Lord to
bless all with a continuation of His spirit,
that we may work together in unity.
	Singing “Lord dismiss us with Thy
blessing.” Prayer by President Paxman.
Conference adjourned for three months.
