U. W. P. C.

	THE annual meeting of the U. W. P. C.
was held at the residence of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
Saturday evening Oct. 30, as the regular
day came on Sunday, Mrs. Ruth M. Fox
presiding. After prayer came the business
of electing officers to serve for the ensuing
year. Roll of officers as follows: Honorary
President, E. B. Wells; Past Presidents,
Dr. E. R. Shipp and Ruth M. Fox; elected
Dr. Romania B. Pratt President; Rebecca
H. Doolan and Helen Vilate Kimball, Vice-
Presidents; Isabella Cameron Brown, Vice-
President at Large; Mary A. J. Lambert
Secretary; Aimee Schiller Asst. Secretary;
Lydia D. Alder Cor. Secretary; Edith
Lovsey Asst. Cor. Secretary; Hattie B.
Harker Treasurer. The work of the en-
suing year was not decided upon as a new
program committee was to be appointed by
the president.
	According to previous arrangement
character representations were given by
some of the members. The ladies who
were most conspicuous were first Lydia D.
Alder as the sweet poet Lydia H. Sigourney
in lace mantilla and appropriate costume
throughout. She read the exquisite poem,
Napolion’s Epitaph, from this gifted writer.
Next came Lucy A. Clark as Hypatia, in
flowing raiment, artistically draped, dis-
coursing philosophy with the wisdom of an
ancient sage. Dr. Orielle Curtis made a 
very striking Portia, with cap and gown,
and withal she looked a Doctor of Laws in
very deed, and as she gave the quotation
“The quality of mercy is not strained,” one
might imagine her a real Greek heroine.
Rebecca H. Doolan with soft white hair
and fine lace cap in plain attire made a 
good picture of the late gifted Mormon 
poetess, Eliza R. Snow and read her poem
“Contentment”. Ruth M. Fox was simply
charming in her Quaker bonnet and severely
plain garb, carrying in her hand the scroll
of the Declaration of Independence and
giving the pathetic yet eloquent description
of the scene when the brave little woman
made herself forever famous on that mem-
orable night of the fire at the Capital.
	Ella W. Hyde in Puritan dress read one
of Louise M. Alcott’s sunshiny poems in a 
delightfully characteristic way. Edith R.
Lovsey read Longfellow’s poem to the
flowers, in a most charming style; bedecked
becomingly in fresh and beautiful flowers,
she made a pleasant picture to the eye and
her voice is full of sweetness. Helen Vilate
Kimball as Lady Elizabeth Montague
made quite an imposing appearance, richly
dressed, her tall, stately figure showed to
good advantage as a woman of rank and
title. No one was able to guess her identi-
ty, not even when she read quotations from
this celebrated English author’s “Letters
from the Dead.” Of this lady who was 
born in 1720, and died in 1800, the poet
Cowper said:


“The birds put off their every hue,
	To dress a room for Montague.”
She was even more popular than her illus-
trious kinswoman, Lady Mary Wortley
Montague, whom it is said suffered by the
comparison of her letters with those of Lady
Elizabeth.
 	The great Dr. Johnson said of her: “She
exerts more mind in conversation than any
person I ever met with.” However, her
greatest fame lay in her Essay on the
“Writings and Genius of Shakespeare.”
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt in heavy rustling
silk, her beautiful hair in natural curls, so
exactly like the portrait of Felicia Dorathea
Hemans as we see her in books, with fan and
reticule and scroll making a complete study
of the character, read one of the sweetest
poems written by this favorite author.
	Miss Pearl Russell as Lady Clare in sim-
ple gown with a rose in her hair, repeated
a verse from that charming poem of Tenny-
son’s and looked as timid and as sweet as
the beautiful Lady Clare herself possibly
could had she stepped out from the poem.
Aimee Schiller handsomely dressed repre-
sented the “Scarlet Letter” in a style new
 and unique and her reading was excellent
as well as her choice in the selection.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp with a beautiful dress
black gilk entraine and flowing sleeves
of glistening white that might have been
wings of angels so airy and fluttering they
were, carrying in each hand a luxuriant
bunch of chrysanthemums and accompan-
ied by her two daughters Olea and Ellis on
either side as maids of honor, made a
splendid picture of the Queen of Sheba,
and as she gave the quotation held up first
the bouquet of real flowers and then the
artificial, asking which was the true and
which the false and adding the half had not
been told, overcome as it were with the
splendor and magnificence of Solomon’s
Court.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells came in as Harriet
Martineau the English writer of works up-
on political economy and others rather re-
markable for a woman even in the early
part of this century, her costume such as
she had heard her mother say was worn for
she had lived about the same period as Miss
Martineau.
	Next came Mrs. Lizzie S. Wilcox who
gave the most humorous representation of
all, and strange to state though it was so
well done the classical, scholars of modern
date were not able to guess. She had the
tailor's goose, patches in profusion and
wore a man’s coat, sat at the table not pre-
cisely tailor fashion, however, and the fun
she provoked was quite exhilarating as
Sartor Resartus. After this the meeting
adjourned and the sweet young girls and a
few of the ladies of the club served delicate
refreshments, and there was some music
etc., and a pleasant chat in the pretty par-
lors, tastefully decorated with Autumn
flowers, and so ended the club evening of
October, 1897.


