SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.

	THE Thirtieth Annual Convention will
be held in the Columbia Theatre, Wash-
ington, D. C., beginning Feb. 14, and end-
ing Feb 19, 1898.
	This meeting will be of special interest
and significance as the Fiftieth Anniversary
of the First convention ever held to demand


equal rights for women. No Reform ever
was more imperatively needed; none ever
had greater obstacles to overcome. The
subjection of women was world-wide and of
immemorial antiquity. It was rooted in
the codes and customs of all nations. It
was accepted by men and women alike as
the law of nature and of God. The thought
of equality for women—their right to educa-
tion, to a chance for self-support, to the
control of their own persons, children, earn-
ings and property—had scarcely dawned
even upon the most progressive minds.
	The great movement has steadily ad-
vanced. In this half century a new world
has been created for women. In home and
school, in church and State, in the courts
and in the industries and professions, a re-
formation has been effected, all the more to
be valued because achieved through the
slow processes of evolution rather than the
harsh measures of revolution.
	In the political world, the last stronghold
of prejudice, the rights of women are being
recognized. We have today a President
and Congress elected in part by the votes of
women. The constitutions of Wyoming,
Colorado, Utah and Idaho secure to women
the full suffrage. In the two hundred and
eighty-five incorporated cities of Kansas,
women exercise municipal suffrage. In
twenty-two States they possess school suf-
frage.
	The Twentieth Century belongs equally
to men and women. All citizens of the
United States, all friends from other
countries are cordially invited to co-operate
in celebrating the semi-centennial of the
first convention held for what Wendell
Phillips declared to be “the most momen-
teous reform that has yet been launched on
the world."
	Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Honorary Presi-
dent; Susan B. Anthony, President; Anna
Howard Shaw, Vice-President at Large;
Rachel Foster Avery, Cor. Secretary; Alice
Stone Blackwell, Rec. Secretary; Harriet
Taylor Upton, Treasurer; Laura Clay,
Auditor; Catharine Waugh McCulloch,
Auditor; Carrie Chapman Catt, Chairman
Organization Committee.


