IN HONOR OF AURELIA SPENCER ROGERS.
“AND they that be wise shall shine as
the brightness of the firmament; and they
that turn many to righteousness as the stars
for ever and ever.”
	Who is Aurelia Spencer Rogers? What
has she done worthy of honor? are questions
that might be asked by many of the Latter-
day Saints; but among 3,500 workers in
the great cause to which she has devoted
her life, her name is honored as the Origin-
ator of the Primary Association in Zion.
	She is the second daughter of Orson
Spencer, author of “Spencer’s Letters,”
a valuable Church work, and was born in
Saybrook, Conn., Oct. 4, 1834. Her par-
ents moved to Illinois and she was baptized
when nine years of age. During the ex-
odus from Nauvoo her mother died from
exposure and exhaustion through camping
out in midwinter, leaving a family of five
little children. Six months later her father
was sent to Great Britian to preside over
the mission there and was obliged to leave
his children in the care of his eldest daugh-
ter Ellen, a girl of thirteen years (the late
Sister Clawson, president of the Salt Lake
Stake and one of the most devoted workers.)
During his absence the little family crossed
the plains in President Brigham Young’s
company, taking five months to complete
the journey. Aurelia became the wife of
the late Thomas Rogers and settled in
Farmington, Davis Co. Being the mother
of a growing family whom she desired
above anything to see become good Latter-
day Saints, her soul was pained by seeing
many evil habits creeping in among the
children of her neighborhood particularly
among the boys, for which the Sabbath
School did not seem quite sufficient check,
and her anxious question was “What can
be done to change these conditions?” The
answer came in the inspired idea, “Organ-
ize the children into an association and
teach them the principles of the Gospel.”
This thought was revealed to Sister Eliza
R. Snow and Emmeline B. Wells while at-
tending a conference held in Farmington on
July 10, 1878.
	Deeply impressed with this idea so sug-
gestive of benefit to the children, these sis-
ters immediately laid the matter before
President John Taylor who, with the quor-
um of the twelve apostles presided over
the Church at that time. It met with his
hearty approval and he commissioned Sis-
ter Eliza to choose a companion and com-
mence organizing the children; her choice
fell on Sister Zina D. Young and together
with their sisters time, they visited the settle-
ments and wards, organizing the Primary
Association and instructing the officers and
children in their duties. The first organiza-

[Column 2]
tion was effected in Farmington with Aure-
lia S. Rogers, president; Louisa Haight and
Helen Miller, counselors. The sisters were
set apart by Bishop John W. Hess and his
counselors, Jacob Miller and Arthur Stay-
ner. August 11, 1878, the first association
in Salt Lake City was organized in the 11th
Ward with Louie B. Felt, president; Lizzie
M. Felt, Laura M. White, counselors, and
Maggie Freeze, secretary.
	As the work progressed and Stake organ-
izations were completed Aurelia Rogers
was chosen to preside over the Primary 
Associations of the Davis Stake, and still
later when the General board was called in- 
to existence and enlarged, this worthy and
beloved pioneer was elected to the position 
of an aid. Being built upon a proper
foundation—with the sanction and ap-
proval of the Priesthood from its infancy—
the Primary work was established through-
out Zion and has been sustained as one of 
the most important organizations in the
Church.
	The amount of faith, courage and persis- 
tenence and patient determination required
by the sisters called to labor in the past can
scarcely be estimated, but a deep sense of
responsibility and an abiding love for the
children of the Saints have inspired heroic
efforts in the paths of duty. All honor is 
due them especially the pioneer in this
movement. What are the results of this 
devotion for upwards of twenty years? Only 
the angels can tell, but according to the
last annual report made by the General
board, which included a report from every
Stake in Zion, we can form a little idea of
the good being accomplished.
	There are 484 associations, 2,767 officers
and 33,659 members. There has been
held 13,946 meetings and conferences,
representing the spiritual and moral edu-
cation, 412 entertainments, showing the
mental and social, 56 fairs, showing the in-
dustrial. The Primary Fair is a very inter-
esting and important feature, originated
with Sister Ann Dustin Woolley, of East
Bountiful, the first being held in the Asso-
ciation over which she still presides.
	The nature of the exercises can briefly be
told from a few statistics. Readings from
Church works 24,454; readings and recita-
tions from miscellaneous works 30,259;
testimonies borne 17,174; sentiments mem-
orized and stories related 70,207; manu-
script papers 294; essays, dialogues, histori-
cal sketches and lectures 2,833; musical ex-
ercises, vocal and instrumental 13,804.
	Financially hundreds of dollars annually
are devoted to charitable purposes, mission-
ary work, traveling expenses and the var-
ious enterprises connected with the Church.
Thus we see that the opportunities for
development are varied, tending to the edu-
cation of the children spiritually, mentally,
morally, physically and socially—the spirit-
ual growth taking the lead. Boys and girls
between the ages of four and fourteen are
taught to pray in secret and trained in
forms of public devotion. They are taught
to honor their parents and the Priesthood,
observe the Sabbath day, pay tithes and
offerings as individuals and as associations,


to keep the word of wisdom, have faith in
the ordinance for the healing of the sick, to
respect the aged and sympathize with the
afflicted. In these good things and many
others they are taught and disciplined by
actual doing, all tending to establish correct
sentiments as they grow to man and wo-
manhood.
	It is for such results brought about
through Sister Rogers as an instrument in
the hands of God that we have met to offer
her our heartfelt gratitude and pay the re-
spect due her faithful, loving and successful
labors. Many noble, inspired men and wo-
men have devoted their life’s best work to
the good and happiness of little children,
struggling on alone, their efforts unap-
preciated and finally passing away unhonor-
ed and unsung, long before their bread cast
upon the waters has returned to them even
after many days, but under the Gospel
reign, with its marvelous system of organ-
zation to present and perpetuate the in-
spired thought given to men and women,
their meed of appreciation and praise comes
to them even in this life; it is a sweet re-
ward for all their toil and when they rest
from their labors in the Lord, their works
follow them, and their names are held in
honorable remembrance among the Saints
of God. 
