Counsel Relief Society Bulletin Volume 1 Number 2 Issued by the Officers and Directors of the GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 1914 HUMAN SERVICE has come to be a consideration of political parties, or social organizations, and of educational institutions. THE RELIEF SOCIETY has been an instrument of human service for more than half a century. It ministers to the immediate material wants of the community. It has been pronounced by many students an institution for community charity. THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE at Logan aims, in a very definite way, to make each member of society a more capable producer, a better farmer, housewife, tradesman, agricultural engineer, or business man and thus aims to eliminate want. Its field of work therefore, properly co-operates with the work of relief societies in serving the men and women of the State. While its courses are distinctly practical, it deals in a broad and fundamental way with the basic industries of the State. Liberal instruction is given in the natural and physical sciences, in mathematics, history, English, economics, literature and languages. The College has been slowly built into an embodiment of the State's idealism. Willes-Horne Drug Company News Building, Salt Lake City. Our Drug Store Is Complete TREATMENT PERFECT. PRICES RIGHT. WE SOLICIT YOUR PATRONAGE. Prompt Attention to Mail Orders. Lambourne Floral Dept. EVERYTHING FLORAL. DECORATIONS. FUNERAL WORK. Etc., Etc. Special Notice to Garment Users. It is recommended and advised by the most particular and careful buyers of L. D. S. Garments that TEMPLE BRAND GARMENTS be used exclusively because of their superior quality, fit and finish. Be sure when making your purchases to look carefully in the neck of garments for the words TEMPLE BRAND, found immediately below the approved label. If they are not there the garment is not the APPROVED TEMPLE BRAND, manufactured exclusively by the Salt Lake Knitting Works for the better class of trade and discriminating purchasers. If your local dealer does not handle TEMPLE BRAND GARMENTS send your orders to Salt Lake Knitting Store, 70 Main Street, Salt Lake City. Posted free to all parts of the United States. Prices as follows Best grade of combed cotton, gauze weight $1.00 Best grade of combed cotton, medium weight 1.25 Superior cotton, unbleached, medium weight 1.25 Superior cotton, bleached, medium weight 1.50 Superior cotton, unbleached, extra heavy weight 1.50 Best grade Sea Island lisle, gauze weight 1.50 Best grade combed cotton, heavy weight, fleeced .... 1.75 Best grade Sea Island mercerized, light weight 2.00 Wash shrunk, part wool medium weight 2.00 Wash shrunk, Merino wool, heavy weight 2.25 Wash shrunk, Utah wool, extra heavy weight 3.00 Wash shrunk, imported part wool, light weight, extra fine 3.00 Pure Australian Wool, medium weight... 4.00 Remember that postage is free, also that there is no substitution for Temple Brand Garments, and if you are not wearing them now you will some day. Then regret not having done so before. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE Salt Lake City, Utah Application for entry as second class matter for this publication made at Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Pending.  
INDEX TO LESSON STATEMENTS. 
PAGE Address 1 Genealogy 4 
Home Ethics 6 Home Gardens 7 
Literature 12 Architecture 13 
Relief Society Convention 14 
Books for the Reading Course 15 
Relief Society Home for Women and Girls 1 
Future Activities of the Society 22 

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist. 
1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. 
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City. 
3. SALT LAKE KNITTING WORKS, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City. 
4. CRISMON & NICHOLS, 229-231 So. West Temple, Salt Lake City. 
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., 251-259 E. First South, Salt Lake City. 
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City. 
7. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City. 
8. LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO., 255 South 2nd East St, Salt Lake City. 
9. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH, Salt Lake City. 
10. CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City. 
11. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. 
12. HOTEL UTAH, Salt Lake City. 
13. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. 
14. RELIEF SOCIETY HOME, 36 W. North Temple St., Salt Lake City. 
15. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. 
16. MORRISON BAKING CO., 158 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
17. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City. F. J. NICHOLS C. (1 CRISMON COLD TESTS Melted, Assayed, Purchased Cyanide, Concentration, Amalgamation CRISMON & NICHOLS ASSAYERS and CHEMISTS Office and Laboratory 229 & 231 So. West Temple St. Wasatch 2393. P. O. Box 78 Salt Lake City, Utah Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 S. M. TAYLOR & CO. UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 years in one location 251=253=255=257 East First South St. Salt Lake City, Utah MODERN METHODS COMPLETE EQUIPMENT EFFICIENT SERVICE THE LEADING COMMERCIAL SCHOOL OF THE WEST L D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Highest Efficiency. Lowest Rates. Ask for our Circular. Phone Wasatch 320 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN
Relief Society Bulletin 

Volume 1 Number 2 
Issued by the Officers and Directors of the GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 1914 HUMAN SERVICE has come to be a consideration of political parties, or social organizations, and of educational institutions. THE RELIEF SOCIETY has been an instrument of human service for more than half a century. It ministers to the immediate material wants of the community. It has been pronounced by many students an institution for community charity. THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE at Logan aims, in a very definite way, to make each member of society a more capable producer, a better farmer, housewife, tradesman, agricultural engineer, or business man and thus aims to eliminate want. Its field of work therefore, properly co-operates with the work of relief societies in serving the men and women of the State. While its courses are distinctly practical, it deals in a broad and fundamental way with the basic industries of the State. Liberal instruction is given in the natural and physical sciences, in mathematics, history, English, economics, literature and languages. The College has been slowly built into an embodiment of the State's idealism. Willes-Horne Drug Company News Building, Salt Lake City. Our Drug Store Is Complete TREATMENT PERFECT. PRICES RIGHT. WE SOLICIT YOUR PATRONAGE. Prompt Attention to Mail Orders. Lambourne Floral Dept. EVERYTHING FLORAL. DECORATIONS. FUNERAL WORK. Etc., Etc. Special Notice to Garment Users. It is recommended and advised by the most particular and careful buyers of L. D. S. Garments that TEMPLE BRAND GARMENTS be used exclusively because of their superior quality, fit and finish. Be sure when making your purchases to look carefully in the neck of garments for the words TEMPLE BRAND, found immediately below the approved label. If they are not there the garment is not the APPROVED TEMPLE BRAND, manufactured exclusively by the Salt Lake Knitting Works for the better class of trade and discriminating purchasers. If your local dealer does not handle TEMPLE BRAND GARMENTS send your orders to Salt Lake Knitting Store, 70 Main Street, Salt Lake City. Postage free to all parts of the United States. Prices as follows Best grade of combed cotton, gauze weight $1.00 Best grade of combed cotton, medium weight 1.25 Superior cotton, unbleached, medium weight 1.25 Superior cotton, bleached, medium weight 1.50 Superior cotton, unbleached, extra heavy weight 1.50 Best grade Sea Island lisle, gauze weight 1.50 Best grade combed cotton, heavy weight, fleeced 1.75 Best grade Sea Island mercerized, light weight 2.00 Wash shrunk, part wool medium weight 2.00 Wash shrunk, Merino wool, heavy weight 2.25 Wash shrunk, Utah wool, extra heavy weight 3.00 Wash shrunk, imported part wool, light weight, extra fine 3.00 Pure Australian Wool, medium weight 4.00 Remember that postage is free, also that there is no substitution for Temple Brand Garments, and if you are not wearing them now you will some day. Then regret not having done so before. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE Salt Lake City, Utah Application for entry as second class matter for this publication made at Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Pending. Phone Wasatch 320 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN VOL. 1. February, 1914. NO. 2 ADDRESS. Occasionally inquiries reach the General Board concerning the duties and labors of new Presidents and Officers in the wards and stakes of Zion. The work of this Society has been so long before the people, the method of conducting our meetings, of administering our affairs, has so long ago been settled by tradition and custom that it seems as if all ought to be familiar with them. And indeed, there are only general rules and general lines, which mark our labors. Wards, stakes and individual officers are allowed great liberty in the adjustment of details and in the conduct of their Society affairs. There is one rule, however, which should be written deep in the heart of every woman in this kingdom and conned frequently by those who hold office in this great organization, namely, respect for the priesthood. No woman who slights or neglects this primary law of the Church can hope to have that full degree of liberty and pleasure in her labors which is her privilege to enjoy. We seldom hear the good old-fashioned counsel on this point that used to ring from our pulpits. But it is none the less a saving principle of the Gospel. Obedience to law obedience to the authority of the Priesthood. Everybody is quite willing to admit that we should obey law the laws of health, the laws of chastity, the laws of honesty, the laws of charity, and indeed all law and laws. Even those so-called laws of man, such as city ordinances, should be obeyed. And yet, could there be a law, without a law-giver and without an executioner of the law! What use would there be in having a law if there were no person to pronounce the law, no one to obey or to disobey it. No one to reward those who keep or punish those who break the law. Every community renders obedience to law, with few exceptions. If a law comes in contact with our prejudice or pleasures, we may try to evade the same, although we admit its justice. Today, women are restlessly trying to change laws in their favor. The women of this Church should honor the law of God. What is the Priesthood? It is the power to administer in 2 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN the ordinances of the Gospel. Other churches have ordinances, many of them similar to those obtaining in this church; but none of them have the authority to administer those ordinances. This power and Priesthood was entirely lost during the Dark Ages, when the Catholic Church ruled the Christian world. By the way, there was one woman Pope appeared during those dark and stormy days in Rome. Associated with this Priesthood is the right of presidency. Out of this grows the functions and offices of the presiding authority; of the Church, and of every quorum in the Church. Those who preside over the auxiliary organizations receive their authority from the presiding Priesthood. Women do not hold the Priesthood. This fact must be faced calmly by mothers and explained clearly to young women, for the spirit that is now abroad in the world makes for women's demand for every place and office enjoyed by men, and a few more that men can't enter. Women in this Church must not forget that they have rights which men do not possess. They have their own field, their own duties, their own privileges. It is cowardly to dodge this question in dealing with young women. But let the whole facts be stated. Then women will see how richly they are endowed and how righteously their place in this life and the life to come has been provided for. Women in this Church, choose to be womanly. They choose to honor their fathers and husbands. They choose their own sphere and duties with that calm, and gracious dignity which ensures to them a full life here and eternal happiness hereafter. There are some men, perhaps, that are the inferiors of some women, mentally, morally and physically. But a superior woman is not expected to look up to an inferior man in her own home which is her sphere. When the one man comes who is the right one, he will be just one or more degrees superior in intelligence and power to the superior woman. But to all men, when in their priestly office, women owe the reverence due that priesthood. The man who holds that office and Priesthood may of himself be not the equal of some of the women who are associated with him in his ward or his public labors but if he holds an office in the Priesthood; and is sustained by his brethren in that office, women everywhere, as men who may be under his jurisdiction, should render that reverence and obedience that belongs of right to the Priesthood which he holds. The women of the Relief Society have long ago proved the value of obedience to law, and to law-givers. So that, when we suggest to our new officers that they shall go to their ward or stake authorities for counsel, and shall never refuse RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN I that advice, we are only repeating the same things that have been told in this organization from its beginning. Especially was Sister Eliza R. Snow that great Mormon woman who presided over the Society after we came to these Valleys, and those who have followed her, Sister Zina D. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith and our present President, Emmeline B. Wells these have been insistent in their advice to the sisters to seek counsel of the Priesthood and to honor those who held it. In any case where there is a question arising in your minds or between the members of your board, go to your bishop, or to the president of your stake and ask him or them for counsel Then accept it. The presidency of a stake has complete jurisdiction over the saints who reside in that stake. All the quorums and auxiliary organizations are under their direct supervision, and their counsel on any given point would be final. The same with the bishop of any ward. It is true that the general board of any auxiliary organization has direct charge of the various stake and ward organizations under them to arrange details of work, dates of conferences, mode of; procedure, choice of officers, or plans and arrangements of all kinds. But if the bishop of a ward or the president of a stake should raise an objection to such plans or details, his wish would be paramount in his ward or stake until such time as a harmonious settlement of the question at issue could be obtained between the general officers and that local presiding officer. This is the order of the Priesthood and this should be understood by all members. Men, as well as women, are subject to this law of the Church. Only so could there exist that perfect order which is the cornerstone of this kingdom. We are asked concerning the customs of clothing our dead, washing and anointing the sick, the proper storing of grain, using outlines, choosing new officers; and all these questions come into the rightful jurisdiction of this society, and we will gladly answer according to the precedents of our Society. Yet any and all of these questions might be referred to the ward or stake Priesthood and their answers should be taken as final. We would always be glad to hear of such decisions, but would respect the authority in any given instance. This may be taken as the general rule or law of this Society. Let the sisters of this Society study the organization of the Church, the wonderful plan of its foundation and thus acquaint themselves with the order of the Priesthood. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN SECOND MEETING. GENEALOGY. (Twenty Minutes.) Testimony bearing. WHAT IS GENEALOGY? "Saviors shall come up on Mount Zion." Obediah. Genealogy is the science of keeping and preparing individual and family records, or pedigrees. This science is as old as Adam, as shown by The Pearl of Great Price. All nations have done more or less at keeping genealogies, for property is held in entail, land is bought and sold, on matters of inheritance and pedigree. For the sentimental or ethical side of this subject, there are the motives that move kings and potentates, and in greater degree all men and women, to learn something of their fathers and to be proud of good birth and parentage. These motives are the surface motives but the Lord has planted; in the hearts of His children a desire to keep records of genealogical information for a vital and essential reason they form the basis of the principle of universal salvation. The Christian world does not attempt to tell what will become of those individuals who die without a knowledge of the Christ, but "Mormonism," the Gospel of Jesus Christ, does explain that point clearly. This subject treats of this principle of vicarious salvation. Every man or woman who stands at the head of his or her family should begin the actual work in genealogy by preparing their own personal records and that of their families. They should begin with their own dates and genealogy. Then take their children's, and then their grandchildren's, and so on to the last generation. The precious names and dates of our own fathers and mothers are too many of them left unrecorded. Who were your father and mother? What were their full names? Your grandmother, or your uncle? When and where were they born and reared? What was the color of hair, the size, the general description, and the primal facts of their lives? This is what may well occupy our first attention. For this lesson's practical exercise, write out in a pencil note book your own name. Where you were born. When you were baptized. Who baptized you. When you were married. The name of your husband. When and where was he born? When was he baptized? When were your children born? Where? What are the death dates of all your family? When RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 5 were your husband and sons ordained to the priesthood? When did they start upon their missions? For your own record you should tell just when you were chosen to various offices in the auxiliary organizations. Your own dates of missions or events of importance. All these items are a part of your history. Those who desire can obtain a book, specially prepared by Elder Duncan McAllister, in which will be found places for all this information and much more. It is on sale for $1.25 at the Deseret News Book Store. We ought to begin with ourselves, and then go back to our fathers, and then our mothers' families. When we begin on our genealogical work for the dead, we take the oldest known ancestor. But start now with your own record and you will soon get interested in a work that is both fascinating and most profitable, and which will lead you on and on. Now, let me sound a warning. Don't try to put more than one family in one book, either note book or record book. It is a false economy that would crowd two or more lines or families in one note book or one record book. Books are cheap. Everybody will have plenty of names sooner or later, to fill up many books. And it is distracting and confusing to jumble up lines and families in one book. Keep each family separate and distinct. State relationship always to yourself. Use no initials if you know what they stand for. Write out the full names. If you do not know the Christian name of a married woman, write her as Mrs. So and So. Begin all your work with the pencil note book. Then copy from that into your record book. Mistakes are bound to occur. Omissions also creep in. Genealogists write out all their information first in pencil note books, and then transcribe them in proper records. Use the best ink. Carter's record ink mind Carter's Record Ink is what we recommend. Your country stores will get this if you demand it, and it has the sanction of genealogists. It is safe and practically indelible, and it would be a great calamity for your records to fade, as have some of ours, who did not know this fact years ago. Use soft and good pencils, with good erasers. Write out the names of your husband and family. When you leave this meeting go home resolved to prepare individual records before another month rolls by. CORRECTION. In the opening sentence of the lesson statement, for first lesson, an erroneous application of verse 17, 1st chap, of Luke, was inadvertently made by the writer, who keenly regrets its publication. A reading of the text clearly shows that the matter relates to an important feature of the mission of John the Baptist. i RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN THIRD MEETING Ten Minutes' Talk on Current Topics. HOME ETHICS Civic Pride (Twenty Minutes.) The foundation of every successful home is honesty. There should be honesty of motive in the union of two lives, the husband and wife filled with a genuine respect and love for each other, while they study each other's characteristics and temperament; and above all, they should possess the same religious faith. These two should live in a home built, according to their means, in a simple, honest way, everything corresponding along the lines of beauty, economy and utility throughout, the main and prime object being to better and ennoble their own lives and the lives of their children, if they are blessed with them, and to set a worthy example in the city, town or village where they reside. Honesty points in many directions in our path. Do we live up to what we profess? Are we the true genuine women we wish our friends to believe us to be? Are we, indeed, the loving, loyal, high-souled sisters our Relief Society calling would indicate? If we are, all will be well with us, but if we are not, if selfishness form any part of our natures, if to aggrandize ourselves alone we labor, then we are not true to the high and noble position of a Relief Society officer or member neither are we fulfilling that mission for which our revered; Prophet John Smith, organized our great sisterhood of women in 1842. Our homes are the primary, as well as the finishing and the graduating school for each of us. Here we lay permanently the foundation for every useful enterprise, every honorable life work here we take on the indelible stamp of reliability, of; integrity, of honest doing and dealing with our own household and our fellow-men. Our families represent the community, the state and the nation. The intellectual, moral, physical, political, social and religious impress of the home life radiates out into the ward, the city and the nation. Hence, the necessity from every point of view for men and women in every avenue of life to be honest, live honestly and act honestly every day of their lives. (a) Honesty the foundation of every home. (b) Honest unity of purpose, interest and faith. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 7 (c) Congeniality of temperament and taste in the highest ideals. (d) Are we honest in our lives? (e) What the Relief Society stands for. (f) Honesty of the home reflected in the community, state and nation. HOME GARDENS FOR WOMEN. (Twenty Minutes.) LESSON II. "Raise up, ye women that are at ease." Isaiah, 32d ch., 9th, 10th verse. Perhaps no more frequent objection is made to the introduction of flower and kitchen gardening for women than this statement "It doesn't pay. We can't get anything for our fruit: or our vegetables, and flowers take so much time and we have to carry water to keep them alive. So I can't raise things in my lot." Let our sisters read the whole of the quotation at the head of this lesson. Much of the work that is done by women is both unprofitable as well as unnecessary. Let us leave off some of the things we do and instead do the things that will give us health and home prosperity. Our Heavenly Father has generously created everything needful for the use of His children, and all He expects of us is to learn the proper use of the materials and elements He has so wisely provided. To begin with, interest the male portion of the household get the small boy and his older brothers to assist you in spading and ploughing the garden. This is February, and therefore a good time to talk over the plans for the summer's work. Decide just how much land you can successfully handle, and do not take more. Suggest to the boys and the girls that each may have a bit of land for his or her own individual planting, and give to him or her a chance to raise a few vegetables, a bed of flowers, and some sugar beets which shall be the child's own exclusive property. No better place to inculcate the rights of children to possess their own things and not be interfered with by either parents or other children can be found than in this matter of growing flowers or vegetables. If the piece of land be given for the season to one child let the whole family guard that child's right as zealously as each would his own. The father is easily persuaded to assist the mother in her 8 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN efforts to plough and prepare her soil but the mother, for the; sake of her children, must interest and secure the co-operation of each one of them in this life-giving toil. The next point to be considered is the fertilization of the soil. It is much better to do this in the fall, so that the snows and rains will carry deep into the earth the richness and life-giving principles contained in the various fertilizers. Farmers have an abundance of this material right in our own barnyards and are not dependent upon the expensive and commercial fertilizers. See that the boys pile up the manure properly from week to week, so that another good coat of that material may be spread over your soil in the early spring. The soil after being spaded and ploughed, should be covered in fall with manure, then left to lie till spring when it is again ploughed up, and raked, removing all rocks and clods taken out of it. Another coating of fine manure is required in most instances, for a good garden, when the soil is ready for the seeds of spring-time. Some parts of our country are so fortunate as to require little or no fertilization witness the rich lands of the Salt River Valley but the rule is as stated above. After the severe months of winter, the latter weeks of February bring to us thoughts of green things soon to spring up on the face of the land and our desires turn from the heavy and monotonous diet of winter to the lighter and more succulent early vegetables. The blood needs this thinning and the system loudly calls for the change in diet. It will do us quite as much good to grow the delicious lettuce, radishes, young onions and pepper-grass as it will to eat them when they begin to come in next month. Let us now decide what to plant, how to plant it, and when to plant. Our catalogues and bulletins will here aid us in this choice. Remember, however, that your space must be considered and the choice of seeds and plants must be governed to some extent by the piece of land they are to be put in. For instance, it would be foolish to attempt to grow melons and winter potatoes on a city lot, while corn, melons, potatoes and all varieties of large vegetables can be planted in country lots. Select good seed. It is foolish to think we can raise fine flowers or vegetables from poor or inferior seed. Seeds cost little; and it is usually better to buy them from reliable persons or firms than to try to grow them ourselves. Learn thus early the habits and requirements of the plants you have chosen for your garden, the proper distance between each seed, the depth of plant root and water required and all other features RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 9 of your plants. Some need constant hoeing, others do not. Study all these small matters, for upon this depends the success or failure of your garden. Climatic conditions govern the times and seasons when you shall plant your seeds and plants. In the northern counties, April is early, while in the southern part of our state February sees lettuce and radishes well along. So that no rule can be given on this point. Consult old residents, if this is your first year of experience, and despise not the sayings of veteran gardeners. Use your intelligence in choosing between the extremes of any advice and work early, late and most of the time. Properly planting the right kind of trees, shrubs, and plants on the home grounds means much more than mere beauty it has a decidedly practical side. It is cheaper to beautify the home grounds than to allow them to go bare and uninviting. Decorating the home grounds transforms a house into a home. It makes the house a part of a beautiful picture and surrounds it with such evidence of loving care that it immediately impresses the beholder with the feeling that people "LIVE" in the house that they do not merely exist there. Many a man passing a farm home made lovely by trees and shrubbery has been lifted up above the sordid conditions which surround him and has immediately commenced to transform his own grounds in keeping with those of his neighbor. And so the gospel spreads. The Essentials to the Production of Choice Vegetables, Shrubs, Beautiful Flowers, etc. SOIL. A fair degree of success may be secured from any soil which can be made rich and pliable, but the very best results are obtained from a deep rich sandy loam. There are very few plants that do well on barren sand, a cold, hard, lumpy clay or in the shade of orchard or other trees. FERTILIZERS. A soil which does not need enriching to produce the best results is rarely, if ever, found, so the degree of success we attain is usually in proportion to the liberality with which fertilizers have been used. 10 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN Well decomposed stable manure, where straw bedding has been used is the best; that where sawdust has been used is not so good. Often wood ashes, at the rate of one peck up to one bushel per square rod will be of great benefit. Commercial fertilizers are excellent and may be used at the rate of four to twelve pounds to the square rod. A mass or lump of any of the commercial fertilizers, even if it is not over a quarter of an inch in diameter, is liable to kill any seed or young plant which comes in direct contact with it, so it is very important that they be thoroughly pulverized and mixed with the soil. PREPARATION OF THE SOIL. Rich soil and liberal manuring will avail little without thorough preparation of the soil. It must be made friable by thorough and judicious working; if it is neglected only partial success is possible, and that at the cost of a great deal of hard work. The garden should be well ploughed or dug to a good depth, taking care, if it is a clay soil, that the work is not done when it is too wet. If a handful from the furrow moulds with slight pressure into a ball which can not be easily crumbled into fine earth again, the soil is too wet, and if stirred then, will be hard to work all summer. The surface should be made as fine and smooth as possible with the harrow or rake. It is generally necessary to plough the whole garden at once, and to do this in time for the earliest crops, but the part which is not planted for some time should be kept mellow by frequent cultivation. PLANTING PROPERLY. There is no greater source of disappointment and failure among amateur gardeners than hasty, careless or improper sowing of the seed. To secure germination, moisture, heat and a certain amount of air are necessary. The first steps are the softening of the hard outer shell from the absorption of the water, and the changing of plant food from the form of starch to that of sugar. In the first condition the food is easily preserved, but the plant cannot use it while in its sugary condition it is very easily appropriated, but perishable, and if not used it speedily decays itself and causes decay in the plant. A dry seed may retain its vitality and remain unchanged for years, but after germination has commenced, a check of a day or two in the process may be fatal. There is no time in the life of the plant when it is so susceptible to fatal injury from the overabundance or want of sufficient heat and moisture as at that: RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 11 between the commencement of germination and the formation of the first true leaves, and it is just then that it needs the aid of the gardener to secure favorable conditions. Therefore, the following must be kept in mind First: A proper and constant degree of moisture. The soil should always be moist, never wet. This is secured by making the surface of the freshly dug soil so fine and the pressing it over the seeds so firmly with the feet or the back of a hoe that the degree of moisture remains as nearly uniform as possible. Second: A proper degree of heat secured by sowing the seed when the temperature of the soil is that most favorable to the germination of the seed of the particular plant we wish to grow. Too high a temperature is often as detrimental as one which is too low. As every crop varies in this particular, the gardener should make a careful study of the requirements of each variety he wishes to plant. Such information is usually found on the seed package or in seed catalogues. Third: Covering the seed to such a depth that while a uniform degree of heat and moisture is preserved, the necessary air can readily reach the germinating seed, and the tiny stem push the forming leaves into the light and air. This depth will vary with the different seeds and conditions of the soil, and can be learned only by practical experience. Some very fine seeds and spores are sowed on the top of moist soil, others barely covered while others such as sweet peas, are planted very deep. Fourth: The soil should be in such a condition that the ascending stem can easily penetrate it and the young roots speedily find suitable food. This is usually secured by thorough preparation of the soil before planting. CULTIVATION. After the plant has germinated and become established, not only should every weed be removed as soon as it appears, but the crust which forms after a rain should be broken up and the ground stirred as soon as it is dry enough to permit it. The more frequently and deeply the soil is stirred while the plants are young, the better, but as they develop and the roots occupy the ground, cultivation should be shallower, until it becomes a mere stirring of the surface. A very small garden well cultivated and cared for will give larger returns and be in every way more satisfactory than a much larger one poorly prepared and neglected. 12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN WHAT TO PLANT. What to plant will depend entirely upon the likes and dislikes of the family. However, in a good home garden, crops should be so arranged that there are some vegetables that can be used at any time during the growing season. When to plant these crops is usually indicated on the packages, but a little practical experience will soon put a person right. These subjects are treated in the U. S. Bulletin 257, which will be furnished, with many others, to anyone who applies at this office, through the courtesy of Senator Reed Smoot and Congressman Joseph Howells. The Utah Agricultural College has assisted in the preparation of this lesson and will send further information to any who apply to that College. FOURTH MEETING Ten Minutes Talk on Current Events. LITERATURE. Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin (Thirty Minutes.) LESSON II. Subject: Early Struggles in Philadelphia. Reference: Chapter II, Autobiography. ''The cat in gloves catches no mice." 1. Franklin's first appearance in Philadelphia. Tired and hungry and in working clothes. Story of rolls. 2. Franklin's Self-reliance. (a) Independent at age of 17. (b) Earns money to clothe and feed himself and to take trip home. 3. Work with Keimer. (a) Character of Keimer. (b) Condition of office. (c) First work. (d) Anecdotes. (e) Keimer's plan of religion. (f) Vegetable diet adopted. 4. Governor Keith's Attentions and Plans. (a) First meeting. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 13 (b) Subsequent meetings. (c) Keith's plans and promises. 5. Trip to Boston to Seek Father's Aid. (a) Presents Governor's letter. Father refuses assistance, but makes wise promise, (b) Franklin visits brother's office, (c) Learns valuable lesson from Quakeress on return trip, 6. Franklin's First Great Error. Story of Vernon's money. 7. Franklin's Friends. (a) Miss Read. (b) Charles Osborne. (c) Joseph Watson. (d) James Ralph. (e) Collins. 8. Anecdotes. (a) Franklin returns to animal food. (b) Franklin and friends at composition. Questions. 1. How does Franklin's cure for cold and fever compare with present-day remedies? 2. What advantage was Franklin's trade to him? 3. How did his early life tend to make him reliant? 4. What do you think of the refusal of Franklin's father to assist his son in setting up in business? 5. Relate three instances where Franklin attracted the attention of prominent people because of his attainments. 6. Relate the experiences of Franklin and his young friends in their efforts at literary composition. THE NEW AMERICAN ARCHITECTURE. (Ten Minutes.) Though the California Bungalow has its admirers there are those who think it too sombre a style with its wide projecting eaves and porches for our mountain climate that is nearly half the year locked in frost. Those who prefer a house open to the direct rays of sunshine will appreciate the new American style of architecture, for it seems to be the acme of simplicity. Nothing is used except for necessity. There is no lathe work; all lines are straight and simple. 14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN To a Chicago architect, Frank Lloyd Wright, we are indebted for this, perhaps the greatest inspiration that has been sent forth in the interest of honest house building. The foundation principle of the new American style is utility and when utility is wedded to beauty the union will result in the best art. There is a demand for beauty in the architecture of the home, but if it is to become great art and really take hold of the imagination, the beautiful must be constructive, must be a part of the very stones, the foundation, the walls, the roof, the doors, windows and porches of the building. There are three elements in house making that are sure to make or mar the beauty of a home, these are color, balance and proportions. When you come to select building material the color must be selected. You have an interesting field in which to choose. The most expensive and best fire brick is full of mottled, beautiful tones. Then there are red pressed brick and white pressed brick. Cement, which may be any selected color, and frame, which permits the greatest scope for the exhibition of taste in color are the materials most often used. Are the windows and doors too large or too small for your house? Study the subject of balance in the December, 1913, Delineator. Mr. Wright has made his fame in the new American architecture by a skilfull use of the panel which he uses both in construction and detail of finish. The panel is a vehicle well suited for revealing beautiful proportions, balance and color schemes. Note the Young Woman's Journal, February, 1914. RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION. Under the auspices of the General Board of the Relief Society there will be a three-days' convention held April 1, 2 and 3 in the Bishop's Building, twice daily, at 10 a. m. and at 2 in the afternoon. This Convention is held for the study of Genealogy, and to assist our class conductors and teachers to prepare themselves in this study. Each stake will be expected to send at least two delegates to this Convention bright, active women who are familiar with taking notes and studying outlines. These sisters will be expected to return to their respective stakes and become in turn teachers in this subject in their various localities. At the three days' classes the ten lessons on Genealogy which appeared in our Guide as Outlines will be taken up in detail and given in the form of RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 15 regular lessons to those assembled. We will have specially ruled note books, which will be on sale for 10 cents; these books are prepared by the Genealogical Society for this work. The Lesson Book on Genealogy can be purchased here at our Relief Society at the reduced rate of 20 cents. Although these classes will be held especially for chosen stake delegates of the Relief Society, all saints, both men and women, who may be in the city will be welcomed, to the extent of the seating capacity in the hall on the fourth floor of the Bishop's Building. There are no fees to pay, and only the note books and lesson books to purchase for the study of this subject. BOOKS FOR THE READING COURSE. There is some inquiry concerning the books recommended in our various lessons. We wish to announce that any or all of these books, with the exception of the United States Bulletins, will be sent on application to the city book stores, if the money be sent for them. Those who wish the U. S. Bulletins for the Home Gardening Lessons, of which there are nearly twenty, will please send their names and addresses to this office for these must be sent to Senator Reed Smoot and; Congressman Howell at Washington. The Bulletins will be furnished free, but, of course, could not be sent without the address of those who desire them. In the Art Lessons we would recommend the purchase of "Sadakichi Hartman's History of American Art." It is quite profusely illustrated from photographs and in photogravures, and the subjects cover not only painting, but American sculpture, and the various fields of American Art. The work is in two volumes, 8vo cloth, and is published and sold for $4.00 net. If we can secure several hundred orders for this work we can get it for about $2.00, or just half its retail price. It is published by Himebaugh & Browne, 415 Fifth Ave., at 37th St., New York City. But the orders for it may be sent to this office, and to the Deseret News Book store or the Deseret S. S. Union Book store, of this city. "The American City" is for the use of those who take up the Home Ethics Lessons, and is full of excellent suggestions and ideas for making beautiful surroundings, and sanitary conditions in our cities and in the home. This will be ordered also from the book stores. Cost, $1.25. It will be mailed in ten days after the order reaches here, as it must be ordered from the east. 16 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN RELIEF SOCIETY HOME FOR WOMEN AND GIRLS. The Relief Society Home for Women and Girls was opened formally December 19, 1913, with brief and modest dedicatory services. The Home is situated opposite the North Gate of the Temple grounds, 36 West North Temple St. It represents the culmination of a long cherished hope and plan. Every woman in the Relief Society will rejoice at this new feature of our work. For there are many reasons why we should have such a place in this city. Women, without relatives or friends, come to this city to do work in the Temple, or to visit the conferences of the Church. They have no place to go, and they shrink from seeking lodging in the many public hotels, which offer all kinds of accommodations but security, friendship and association with our people. The hotels are good in their time and place, but not what is needed by such visiting women. Girls, who insist on coming to this city to get big wages, are too often allowed to drift about with no secure quarters where they may lodge until they can secure work, nor a place to go to while one place is exchanged for another or more desirable one. All these needs have been RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 17 felt and realized for a long time by members of the General Board. In the olden days the saints in this city entertained the saints from the country and everybody knew everybody else, and there was no question of lodging houses or hotels. But times have changed; and some of our visitors now feel obliged to seek temporary lodgings in the various hotels and rooming houses. Our sisters do not want nor expect to have this accommodation without paying sufficient to keep up the expenses of the place, for they are possessed of the proper pride and dignity of character which makes them self-supporting under all circumstances. The sisters of this Society have contributed of their mites to build meeting houses, carpet temples, purchase silver for sacrament purposes; have sent money to the missionaries, nursed the sick, educated the nurses, clothed the dead and nurtured the orphan. But the day has come when they are going to be placed in positions where they can do some wise and kind things for themselves. This Home is such an enterprise. "When we were discussing the Home before President E. B. Wells one day she remarked that the Prophet Joseph Smith had given the Relief Society in Nauvoo a home for just such a purpose as this. And the question at once arose is there anything that this wonderful man did not inaugurate and give the initial impetus for? What a Prophet he was and is. We bow to his kindly intelligence and reverence his god-like memory. The plan for establishing such a refuge was laid before the General Board of the Relief Society two years ago, and a Committee was appointed to look into such a project. Mrs. Rebecca Neibaur Nibley was appointed as Chairman of this Committee, with Sisters Elizabeth C. McCune and Elizabeth C. Crismon as the other members. Later on, because of the temporary absence of Mrs. McCune, Mrs. Janette A. Hyde was added to the Committee. These sisters have worked indefatigably to bring about the successful conclusion now manifested. When the Presidency of the Church and the Presiding Bishop were approached, they gave the project their heartiest support. Several houses were offered to the Committee to choose from and after careful consideration the one named was chosen. It is somewhat limited for room and will not be adequate long for the purposes of the Home. But it is a modest beginning, and it was felt wiser to begin thus simply and spread out as occasion may require. The house itself was built for Sister Jane Carrington Young in 1874 by her husband, 18 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN Apostle Brigham Young, Jr., and at her death passed into the hands of the Church. President Joseph F. Smith suggested the name when the matter was presented to him of "The Relief Society Home for Women and Girls," and such it has been named. On the evening of December 19th there were assembled in the cosy parlor of the Home President Joseph F. Smith, Presiding Bishop C. W. Nibley, Elder R. K. Thomas and Elders Arnold Schultess, C. E. Martin and A. B. Olsen, who where there as members of the Temple Quartette. Of the sisters present there were President Emmeline B. Wells, her two Counsellors, Sisters Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L. Smith; Mrs. Rebecca Neibaur Nibley, who had charge of the services as the Chairman of the Home Committee Mrs. Elizabth C. McCune, Elizabeth C. Crismon and Janette A. Hyde of the Home committee Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. ; ; Susa Young Gates' and Miss Sarah M. McLelland of the General Board, and the Temple Quartette, with Sister Agnes McMillian Bolto as the contralto of that quartette. The Chairman, Sister Nibley, introduced the singers, who rendered the hymn, beginning "When Dark and Drear" in a feeling manner. Bishop Nibley offered the opening prayer, and the quartette sang "Galilee." Sister Nibley then expressed her great joy shared by the Board in seeing the completion of this happy enterprise. She related the circumstance of the hurried opening of the Home in July to accommodate the visitors to the N. E. A. But not until the present time had the Committee been able to complete their plans and arrange for the formal dedication of the Home. She spoke of the generosity of the Church in giving the Board this spacious house for the beginning of our Home and they had been equally generous in the assistance needed to further renovate and remodel the place to suit our needs. She referred to the donations made by the Y. L. M. I. A., the Primary Board, the Tooele Stake Relief Society, the private donations of Sisters Annie Watson and Clarissa Smith Williams, Sisters Beatie, Jennings, Crismon and others, all of whom had contributed of their means and furniture to make the Home attractive and suitable. Bedding had been donated in goodly quantities by various Relief Societies, while individuals and firms had also given liberally. The moderate price for the rooms, from $6 to $25 a month, brought the Home within the reach of all the sisters who require its benefits. There had been already seventy-two guests entertained in the Home, and each one had given expression to their great pleasure in finding such a place, permeated as it was with the spirit of kindness RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 19 and charity. Sister Nibley read the House Rules, which were simple and yet effective. There had been non-members of the Church entertained at the Home, but all had united in like expressions of praise and appreciation. She spoke of the Employment Bureau which had been established in connection with the Home and hoped that the Latter-Day Saints girls who came to this city for work would avail themselves of its assistance and protection. The members of the Home Committee were remembered by the speaker and their labors referred to, while those members of the Board (Sisters Sarah McLelland, Edna May Davis and our kind Sister Maria B. Winder), who had served various terms as temporary patrons of the Home, were recalled with grateful words. The present matron, Mrs. Cornelia Home Clayton, is a woman of excellent character and kindly manners and received all who came in the proper spirit, and none were wounded or forgotten in her ministrations. President Emmeline B. Wells next expressed her great pleasure in having the President of the Church and the Presiding Bishop with us on this occasion. It had long been the desire of her heart to see such a place as this provided for the care of the girls and women who need this protection and comfort. She invoked the blessing of God upon all who came here, the priesthood and all who are interested in this good work. President Joseph F. Smith then offered the Dedicatory prayer. He said in part: "Our Father in Heaven; we Thy children have assembled here this evening for the purpose of dedicating this House for the object and purpose for which it is designed. While we call upon Thy name, may Thy spirit direct our minds and thoughts. We are very grateful for this expression of Thy kindness towards us Thy children in permitting us to obtain a Home for those who may seek its shelter. We would always remember Thy kindness and Thy much mercy towards us in all these things. To this end we ask Thee to bless those of thy daughters who have contributed of their means to this enterprise; may they feel abundantly blessed and may their reward be multiplied unto them; for inasmuch as they have cast in their mites may they feel that they have not invested them in that which perishes with the using. To this end wilt Thou bless the General Board of this great Society. May they be united as the heart of one. May they be joined together in the bonds of love and true fellowship; and may each one have a voice in the affairs of this organization, and each therefore feel the responsibility which rests upon all. So wilt Thou bless Thy handmaids. Especially 20 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN bless those who preside over this Society and the sisters who are in immediate charge of this home. May each receive the spirit of her work and calling. Bless the Matron, that she may be inspired in all her duties and labors. That wisdom and great intelligence may go hand in hand with the spirit of human kindness which would pervade this Home. That kindness which is tempered with prudence and wisdom. Let all work together for the good of the whole that nothing out; of harmony with the principles of truth and righteousness may enter or obtain in these walls. Bless and sanctify the sisters who labored to this purpose. And if at times they are called upon to assist the poor or succor the afflicted, may they help and minister in the spirit of charity and love, with the aid of those principles that make for happiness here and hereafter. Father, look upon this Home and bless it we pray Thee. Accept all that has been done and contributed by the Church, and by the sisters who have assisted. Bless this building; preserve it from the devouring elements. May it be solid in its foundations, and safe in its appointments. May it be indeed an abode of peace and righteousness. May the walls of the rooms thereof be filled with the spirit of peace and that spirit which gives us all understanding and joy. May every object desired be realized by all who need that assistance. We dedicate this Home and bless it and ask Thee to sanctify it as a place of peace and rest for the weary. That the poor may not be spurned from its doors, but that they may be ministered to as they need and require. That in the day of judgment we may realize that it may be said of us: "I was an hungered and ye fed me I was sick and ye ministered unto me I was in; ; prison and ye visited me." For inasmuch as we do this unto the least of His children we have so ministered unto Him. We do dedicate and bless this Home, and we do it by virtue of the Holy priesthood invested in us. Amen." Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams then moved a rising vote of thanks by the members of the General Board there present to the Presidency of the Church and to the Presiding Bishopric for their generous gift and assistance. It was unanimously carried. Bishop C. W. Nibley then made a few but most timely remarks. He endorsed the proceedings and the whole project. He complimented the members of the Committee and all the sisters engaged in this Relief Society work. The speaker quoted the words of the Savior "Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness" that should be the ideal of the sisters engaged in this great work. Seek first the kingdom of God. the interests of that kingdom. His purpose and power and not seek our own purposes and desires. We should do RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 21 what we can in the saving of souls, in assisting those who are in need, being prudent and careful in all these matters and in the expenditure of all funds entrusted to our care. "I commend this Society for its work throughout the Church. If we can only hold to the ideals laid down by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the organization of the Society we shall not go astray. I don't believe," said the speaker, "that we appreciate the magnitude and greatness of the work you sisters are engaged in. To be ministering angels, to wear the garb of charity, to bless and teach mankind this is a wonderful work and calling. 'Ye are not of the world for I have chosen you out of the world,' said the Savior. This organization should be different from anything in the world, greater in its scope, bigger in its work than anything the world can do, and not patterned after the foolish habits of those who know not God and His kingdom. Rivet the sayings of the Savior on your minds, sisters, and seek ye first His righteousness. If ever there was a time when we needed to follow the counsel of our leaders and live according to the principles of the Gospel independent of the world and its ways it is now. May the Lord bless this Home and those who come here and those who labor here. Amen." The quartette sang, "We thank Thee, God, for a Prophet," and the prayer of dismissal was pronounced by Elder R. K. Thomas. In closing this article we would like to emphasize the importance and value of the Employment Bureau which we have established in our Home for our Latter-Day Saint girls who desire work in this city. They will be certain to find friends and assistance in securing respectable places. Bishops and parents would do well to note this feature of our work. The prices are moderate and service is prompt and reliable. 22 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN FUTURE ACTIVITIES OF THE SOCIETY. The unrelated work done by the various auxiliary organizations of the Church and the confused and crowding conference dates on which the auxiliaries hold their various conferences, has been the subject of much thought and discussion. Recently a co-relation committee was appointed by the Presidency of the Church, with representatives from the Council of the Twelve Elder David McKay being chairman of that committee and two or more members of each general board. These brethren and sisters have labored now for some time in preparing their comprehensive and excellent report, covering all points connected with conference dates, mode of apportioning time at those conferences, with the study along theological lines to be followed by each organization. This report has not yet been made public but we are pleased to acquaint our own; organization with the matters that it contains belonging to us. According to this arrangement all auxiliary organizations are to hold their conferences at the same time that the stake conferences are in session. That is, the Relief Society, as all the other organizations will have a portion of the time on both Saturday and Sunday when the regular stake conference convenes. The time each organization has for the presentation of its particular work is the same, but the dates are arranged in rotation. The months for the holding of our Relief Society conferences are May, June and July; with the exception of the Salt Lake City stakes and those very close to this city. These are to be held in November. The time given for our work at the stake conferences is Saturday forenoon, with an officers' meeting on Sunday morning between 9 a. m. and 10:25 a. m., and Sunday evening. This gives the Relief Society one private meeting on Saturday morning, an officers' meeting on Sunday morning and a public session on Sunday evening. The rest of the time will be occupied with the business of the stake conference. The study which is to be provided for our Relief Society theological department is to be the same as that taken up by the quorums of the Melchisedek Priesthood. For this year, however, we have been permitted to use our genealogical study in its place. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 23 ANNUAL DUES. Stake officers will be reminded that our Annual Day is approaching. While making arrangements for the festivities and programs which mark that event, let us not forget the annual dues. The officers should explain in the spirit of love and kindness the many and good reasons why the dues have been raised from ten cents to twenty-five cents. This matter was entered into fully and was agreed upon at our annual business meeting of the October (1913) conference, by the representatives of the stakes there assembled. Take up this work of explanation and conversion in due season so that all shall understand and be prepared for this change. Our society is growing rapidly and new lines of activity are springing up. The harvest is ripening fast and our laborers must be prepared to thrust in our sickles and reap. BURIAL CLOTHING. Sister Julina L. Smith, chairman of the Temple Clothing Committee, wishes to thank the saints for their support in this new undertaking. But owing to delays and misunderstandings which arise, the saints residing outside of Salt Lake City are urgently requested to write either to Larkin-Hull Co., undertakers, or to S. M. Taylor & Co., undertakers, both of this city, for anything in this line they may desire. This will prove more satisfactory to all concerned. Those residing in this city are invited to call at the Beehive House for any clothing desired for this purpose. COMMUNICATIONS. All inquiries or communications about our lessons, book, advertising and Bulletin business generally should be addressed to RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN, Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. ICE CREAM SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST" Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc. TWO STORES 55 Main St. 260 State St. Prompt Delivery Phones: Wasatch 3223 3224 THOMAS HULL ELIJAH A. LARKIN GEO. W. LARKIN ALMA J. LARKIN LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO. EMBALMERS AND FUNERAL DIRECTORS. CHAPEL & PARLORS 255 SO. 2nd EAST ST. Phone Wasatch 5132 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH W N. Williams, Supt. . Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y & Treas R. N. Wilson. Asst. Supt Guaranteed Furniture at Lowest Prices Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable. Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Go-Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT Co-op. Furniture Co. Next Door South of Z. C. M. I. THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH AT YOUR SERVICE THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES Preparation to make a life as well as a living. Courses in general science, liberal arts, commerce, and preparation for business THE STATE SCHOOL OF MINES Preparation for all branches of Engineering. A school in the west where a great country is in the making where the building of; highways, railroads, power plants, canals, and commercial and industrial structures of all kinds must push forward rapidly to keep pace with an expanding population a school; in the heart of one of the biggest mining regions of America, where are the greatest copper mines of the world, and the most extensive smelting plants. THE STATE SCHOOL OF EDUCATION Preparation for Teaching in common schools and high schools. A school that has drawn favorable attention from educators of high standing in our country, for its sensitive and sensible attitude In relation to modern educational theory. THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE Offering a combined course in Arts and Medicine (four years.) THE SCHOOL OF LAW Offering full preparation for the practice of law. A young department with high standards, thorough methods, and some novel advantages. All the work in these several schools is fully up to the standard requirements, and is accepted in full by the best Universities in the United States. For full particulars, address UNIVERSITY OF UTAH. Salt Lake City. Utah. SUPPORT HOME INDUSTRY Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes for boys they keep the feet warm and dry. Men's solid Shoes serviceable for the farmer, the laborer, the mechanic. Try our Summit, Bannock, Wyoming or Western Scout Shoes. We manufacture the famous "Mountaineer" or "The Leader" Overalls ask for them. HOTEL UTAH: 500 Rooms. Fireproof Opened June 8, 1911 "The very best of every, thing at sensible prices." Rates for room without bath $1.50 and $2.00. With bath $2. 50 per day and upwards. Under the Management of GEORGE O. RELF BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Board Society General FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Phones Wasatch 3455 and Wasatch 207 Salt Lake City Utah RELIEF SOCIETY HOME FOR WOMEN AND GIRLS ROOMS REASONABLE Employment Bureau in connection with home. 36 West North Temple St. Phone Wasatch 4478 J. Star Printing Company 35 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 1370 Salt Lake City, Utah "Big Oaks From Little Acorns Grow" ''the story of the hot scotch pie IN SIX CHAPTERS CHAPTER ONE JUST THIRTY YEARS AGO With a little old fashioned "pie can," on the corner of First South and Main Streets, T. H. Morrison introduced his now famous "Hot Scotch Meat Pie" to Salt Lake's lovers of good things to eat. The beginning was humble, but, like all great things, it began in a humble way, and surely but steadily won its way into the hearts (and stomachs) of the people, with the result that TODAY, MORRISON HOT SCOTCH PIES ARE A HOUSEHOLD WORD You'll find them served with their inimitable flavor and crisp brown crust, in every up-to-date restaurant Get the Morrison Hot Scotch Pie habit it's a healthy habit, buy them where you see our card take them home for the evening meal but be sure they're Morrison's Hot Scotch Pies. "BETTER THINGS TO EAT" TWO PLACES CORNER MAIN & 1st SO. 158 SOUTH MAIN ST. WHILE LABORING FOR THE POOR AND AIDING THE WIDOW IN WANT, DON'T NEGLECT YOURSELF AND FAMILY Have they the proper protection in case of sickness or death of your bread winner or will you be compelled to look for charity? Has he sufficient life insurance to assure you this protection? JOHN C. CUTLER LORENZO N. STOHL 1st. Vice President. 2nd. Vice Pres. & Mgr. INSURANCE OVER IN FORCE $12,000,000.00 JOSEPH F. SMITH President. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home office, Vermont Building Salt Lake City, Utah C. W. NIBLEY RICHARD W. YOUNG Member Ex. Com.