INDEX TO LESSON STATEMENTS. PAGE  
Relief Society Memories 1  
Editorial Peace 4  
Genealogy 6  
Home Ethics 8  
Home Gardening for Women 10  
Literature 13  
Art and Architecture 14  
Music 15  
Notices 16  

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist.  
1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah.  
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City.  
3. WHITE SEWING MACHINE CO., 29 W. First South St. Phone Was. 5234, Salt Lake City.  
4. CRISMON & NICHOLS, 229-231 So. West Temple, Salt Lake City.  
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., UNDERTAKERS, 251-259 E. First South St., Salt Lake City.  
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City.  
7. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City.  
8. LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO., 255 South 2nd East St., Salt Lake City.  
9. L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES, Salt Lake City.  
10. CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City.  
11. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City.  
12. HOTEL UTAH, Salt Lake City.  
13. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City.  
14. CUTLER BROS. CO., 36 So. Main St., Salt Lake City.  
15. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City.  
16. MORRISON BAKING CO., 158 So. Main St., Salt Lake City.  
17. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City.  
18. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main St., Salt Lake City.  
19. PORTER-WALTON CO., Salt Lake City, Utah.  
20. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City.  

F. J. NICHOLS  
C. C. CRISMON  
GOLD TESTS  
Melted, Assayed, Purchased  
Cyanide, Concentration, Amalgamation  
CRISMON & NICHOLS  
ASSAYERS and CHEMISTS  
Office and Laboratory  
229 & 231 So. West Temple St.  
Wasatch 2.393. P. O. Box 78  
Salt Lake City, Utah  
Established 1860  
Incorporated 1908  

S. M. TAYLOR & CO.  
UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS  
Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR  
The Pioneer Undertaker of the West  
53 years in one location  
251=253=255=257 East First South St.  
Salt Lake City, Utah  
modern methods  
complete equipment  
efficient service  

SPECIAL NOTICE  
SONS & DAUGHTERS of the UTAH PIONEERS  
-THE L D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE was established by your FATHERS for YOU.  
OPEN ALL THE YEAR. Day and Evening Sessions.  

RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN  
ORGAN OF THE WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS  
Vol. I. May, 1914. No. 5  
Editor Mrs. Susa Young Gates  
Business Manager Mrs. Janette A. Hyde  
Assistant Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman  
Advisory Committee Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams  
Mrs. Julina L. Smith  
Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley  
Publishers and Proprietors  
General Board of the Relief Society  
Office Room 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City  
One Dollar a Year Ten Cents' Copy  
Entered as second-class matter on February 18, 1914, at the Post Office at Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.  

RELIEF SOCIETY MEMORIES. The seventeenth of March has come to be recognized as a day set apart for special significance to commemorate the day and occasion when the first woman's society of any great importance was organized, and more especially to emphasize the fact that the organization was effected under the Priesthood and by the authority of the same. It is my idea that this society of women was established previous to any such organization of women in the world. We know that the Prophet Joseph Smith at that time turned the key of knowledge for women, and the record of this edict, if it can be so called, is on the pages of history and the fulfillment thereof is apparent. Since that time woman everywhere among civilized nations has been struggling for greater freedom from the conditions that had existed previously, and very much greater liberty has been brought about towards the elevation of womanhood, until greater progress and a higher civilization for all has been attained. This fact has been proclaimed and reiterated until it has become established in the minds of all our own people, and many others have been convinced of its validity. We need not now dwell especially upon this matter in its broad sense, but we do desire that our sisters in the Church should realize the great importance of this Society and appreciate its benefits, not only in a temporal service, giving relief to the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted; but also in its educational development spiritually, to those who come 2 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN within its influence. Humility brings down the blessings of heaven upon all who really and truly seek to know the will of the Lord, and to observe the rule, "Love thy neighbor as thyself." While perhaps none of us in this mortal state can quite fulfill this commandment, we can at least come nearer to this condition by constantly improving our minds and following the example of the Master. Kind words are like healing balm to those in sorrow or in trouble. Smiles and a cheerful countenance are helpful. In the seventy-two years since this organization was established thousands have been thus benefited but those who have ministered to the needy, the sick and the suffering have received even greater blessing in their own hearts and souls than have those to whom they have ministered. We hold that the best education for women and girls is that which they gain through charity and benevolence; one cannot too deeply appreciate the benefits and results of mingling together in these works of love and usefulness. To enter into any dissertation that would give even a faint idea of the work itself as a whole, would require pages of manuscript; "the half can never be told." But as a Society we are trying to gain from time to time more details of this work and to establish facts that will strengthen the faith of the younger generation and lead them to follow in the footsteps of those who laid the foundation upon which they may build more effectively in the future. The first woman's jubilee that we have knowledge of was held in the great Tabernacle in this city March 17, 1892, when Zina D. H. Young presided and made the opening address. Her counselors, Sisters Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba W. Smith, each spoke eloquently upon the beneficial work in which they were engaged and in the organizing of which they had traveled so extensively. Some of us who were younger wrote papers that were read by Apostle Abraham H. Cannon. Previous to this letters had been sent to all parts of the world where the Relief Society had been organized, asking that the seventeenth of March be celebrated as a Jubilee day at the same time that we observed the day here in the United States. We may truly say, therefore, that this Jubilee encircled the world. There were present at the great meeting in this city and participating in the exercises. President Joseph F. Smith, who offered prayer at high noon Apostles John Henry Smith, ; Abraham H. Cannon, James E. Talmage and President Angus M. Cannon, who also offered prayer. There were many other notable men and women present. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 3 In three years from now will be another Jubilee, the seventy-fifth anniversary; and perhaps the event will be celebrated with greater magnificence than even the first jubilee. Many of those who participated in that memorable occasion in 1892, even among the younger ones, have joined the innumerable company on the other side. But we who are living should continue to testify and prove ourselves diligent in encouraging the generation of younger women, who have all the advantages of this wonderful age, to hold steadfast to the truths revealed through the great prophet, seer and revelator Joseph Smith. Our younger women should be valiant in proclaiming the truths which have been revealed, in defending the faith and bearing record of those who laid the foundation of the principles for which we stand today. It is a notable fact that as a people Mormon women have always voted in a Church capacity the same as men whereas at that early time when the Church was in its infancy, no other people except the Quakers enjoyed that privilege. Looking forward into the future years, with the larger opportunities and the enlightenment of the people, what may not be expected of those who are living today? When one looks at the many activities in which Mormon women of the present day are taking part social, political, intellectual and religious one is compelled to believe that no agency has done more towards correcting the morals and awakening latent thought and promoting self-helpfulness than the Relief Society of Mormon Women. Being among the first, if not the very first of its kind, it has rendered signal service from its inception seventy-two years ago. Its founders and first members have long since passed away not one now remains but the writer of this brief paper has heard the story often repeated by those who were present at the time of the organization and were active in performing the works of charity and benevolence enjoined during the early stages of the work. Perhaps there is no one now living more familiar with the work in the beginning than the writer; and it is her strongest desire that our young women of today be made to comprehend the work of the early members who, without the facilities of the present time, comforted the sad and distressed, visited the widow and fatherless, and were like ministering angels going hither and thither on their errands of mercy and compassion. The Lord must have been very near to the women at that early period and braced them up for the new duty which had been given them of such great value to humanity. Nauvoo the beautiful, on the bank of the Mississippi, was a swampy country. Steamboats coming from New Orleans 4 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN brought the foreign emigrants, many of whom were sick when they landed and required constant care and special attention. But great faith was exercised not only by the converts, but also by those who ministered among them; instances of the power of God were shown. To be sure, the Prophet Joseph Smith assisted and advised the women workers, as did other great men of that day; and they officiated according to the pattern given them by the leaders of the Church. In the light of the twentieth century it is difficult to realize what these heroines had to encounter; but the recollection of their experiences and a comparison with the advantages of the present should appeal to the better nature and higher aspirations of all now engaged in the glorious work, and fill them with determination to render even more active service working; heart and soul and without thought of ceasing for the betterment of the race. "Till the war-drums throb no longer, and the battle-flags are furled In the Parliament of man, the Federation of the world." Emmeline B. Wells. EDITORIAL. PEACE. The month of May, with its world-wide celebrations of peace, suggests the beauty and the value of this ideal condition, while it also brings to mind the dangers and difficulties of its counterfeit. What is peace? It is a condition of mind, it may be ours in the midst of sorrow and affliction, of poverty and alleged disgrace. It may also, however, take its flight in the midst of prosperity, health and congenial surroundings. Too many people fail to weigh their emotions in the balance of good judgment, and are swayed solely by their feelings and impulses. Latter-day Saints, if they but stop to consider, can easily define the quality of peace, and describe the persons who possess it. Peace is the harmony of the human soul with the Infinite will, I have seen mothers weeping over their children, wives desolate in their fresh widowhood, yet deep in their hearts lay the perfect peace that passeth understanding; for peace and joy are not necessarily close companions. The mother's heart may be torn with sorrow over the death of her beautiful babe, but there may be no quality in that sorrow which disturbs the RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 5 deep foundation of her perfect peace. If that mother stands helpless and distraught while her son or her daughter glides over the precipice of personal virtue, or apostasy, peace cannot be hers, for her heart is torn with the bitterness of a second death. If peace is ours when we are in harmony with Infinite law, how are we dispossessed of that exquisite quality? The answer is obvious. If we are out of harmony with our neighbors, with our husbands or wives, with those who are over us in the Relief Society or in the Church, there is no possibility of peace in our souls. We may be unconscious of the source of the constant misery which gnaws at our vitals, but a spirit of disturbance or rebellion against constituted authority in this Church, whether in the home, or in the broader fields of Church activity, will poison the very springs of our peace. But when we have conquered our stubborn pride, or shall have bowed in submission to the proper authority, then comes peace, heavenly peace. It is amusing, if not distracting, to listen to foolish people who see things only from surface indications, talking about the glories of peace. Such people would set aside the discipline of the home, the state, and the nation. They would have us believe that peace is only gained when the child, the youth, the man, or the nation pursues the foolish path of personal and national self-will. It is impossible for each child, or for each individual, to have his own way completely, and not thereby interfere with the rights and privileges of others. There must be a constant submission of one will to another, in order to have peace in a household, in a state, or in a nation. To give and to take is the universal law. Especially is this true in religious matters. He who spake as no man ever spake has told us that He came not to bring peace, but a sword; and He gave the one and only law by which we may achieve in the fullest degree that peace which we so ardently crave. Love thy neighbor as thyself, was his perfect counsel. In other words, seek the welfare of others, in preference to your own, or at least, with equal ardor and justice. Yet, in that consummation comes the point of the sword into our own hearts and into every discussion and problem, both in the home and in the nation. Discipline must necessarily precede peace. Do not forget that, you mothers, and grandmothers, if you would have peace in your homes, in your society, and in your community. Discipline your children and yourselves, before asking for the priceless boon of perfect peace. 6 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN May GENEALOGY Lesson V. (Twenty Minutes.) Approximating Dates. Our students often ask why it is that we are so particular and careful to have no guesswork done with names in Genealogy, and yet that we recommend the approximation of dates and places of residence. A little consideration will convince you that there is no contradiction in our suggestions in regard to these matters. In the first place, we do not guess at facts and dates in Genealogy; or, where so, we clearly state the fact that it is guesswork. Neither do we record a single date or residence place which is, or may be, doubtful, without adding the word "of" or "about." As a matter of fact, guesswork done in Genealogy is foolish, if not criminal, if done without any clues as to the fact that it is guesswork. Let me illustrate this point. A man named David Young marries a woman named Alice Martin. Some people in order to increase the number of names which they may be supplying to a client will add to these two names a Mr. and Mrs. Young as the father and mother of David Young, and a Mr, and Mrs. Martin as the father and mother of Alice Martin. You can readily see that this would soon become mockery, for if it is permissible to go back in this way one generation, why not one hundred generations? And we all know that twenty generations ago there were no surnames known in the world; and to further complicate matters, after people did take surnames, about one thousand years ago, they changed them for any and every reason. They spelled them differently, on frequent occasions, and the number of surnames which have come down to us in an unbroken chain of one thousand years is so limited that trained genealogists know them all. Another complication arises when we remember the fact that the Common Law marriages in Scotland, England and the continent were very common a few years ago. A Common Law marriage was not a Church marriage, and the woman took the man's name only by sufferance; while few if any of the titled and noble families of Europe are descended in a straight, clean line from a legitimate heir of any family. The rule is that only the peasantry and yeomanry of any nation have anything like an unbroken, legitimate pedigree for four or five hundred years. To speak plainly, not one of us may be sure that David Young's father and mother, or Alice Martin's father and unmother, were married. Then why should we assume that known fact on our records? RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 7 Again, some careless people give the birthplace of their forefathers recklessly. If their descendants lived in a certain place, they are quick to assume that the forefathers were born and lived in the same place. This, of course, is vain guesswork. On the other hand, we have a perfect right to state some guess dates and guess facts, if we label them as such. For instance, if we have the record of the marriage of David Young and Alice Martin, and the name of Alice Martin's father given as Henry Martin, we are perfectly safe in assuming that he had a wife and if we do not know her maiden name, we may call her Mrs. Henry Martin. And vice versa, if we found the name of Mrs. Alice Martin as the mother we would name her husband as Mr. Martin. Moreover, if we know that Alice Martin was married at a certain time, we may be reasonably safe in guessing her age to be about 20 when she was married, then that would give us a clue to the birth date of her father and mother, for genealogists have found that a safe average of age between the oldest child and the parents is twenty-three years for the mother, at the birth of her first child. In other words, if we had the birth date of the oldest child, we would assume that the father was twenty-five years old when the child was born, and the mother twenty-three years old. Of course, it often happens that the particular child may be born when the parents are older or younger, but twenty-five years is a fair average, and genealogists who have followed up approximating dates find that this makes a pretty safe average for approximating dates. There are some little clues which aid us in determining whether the person named is an adult or not. For instance, if we were to find the name of David Young as a witness in a will or a marriage certificate, we would know at once that he was a man of mature years, whether there were any other date clues or not. We do not approximate marriage dates under any circumstances birth dates are approximated, and some; times death dates. As an instance of approximating a death date, we would suggest the fact that if a person was named in a record as a widow, or widower, we would be safe in assuming that the widower's wife died prior to his second marriage, or that the widow's husband died prior to her second marriage, and in that case we would write in the death column "Died before" the date of the second marriage. In the same way we approximate the fact of residence. We never place a person's birth in a town when we are uncertain as to that fact, but if we know that an individual lived in a certain town, we write the name of the town and place and the word "of" just before the name of the town; this indicates: 8 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN that it is an approximate or guess statement. In every case where we are uncertain as to the town, shire, or country, in which a person was born, or lived, we place the word "of" with the best and nearest clue town that we have. The students who will bear these instructions in mind will generally be able to make a pretty good and full record of their dates, and at the same time will so carefully place their caution and guess words in front of their facts of birth and residence that anyone will not be misled. Let me summarize Genealogists do no guesswork, unless that guesswork be properly labeled. Dates are approximated when one sure date is given in a pedigree. The rule for approximating dates is, allow twenty-three years between the birth of the first child and the mother, twenty-five years between the birth of the child and the father. The word "about" is used before the guess date. Marriage dates are never approximated. Death dates are approximated if some clues thereto have been given in wills, or in the statement of individuals as being widows or widowers. When it is known where the person lived the word "of precedes the name of the place, indicating that it is not necessarily his birthplace, but his place of one-time residence. MayHOME ETHICS Lesson V. (a) "Work is the gospel of life." (b) Order and system a necessity. (c) Every member in the family should have good and sufficient work for the brain and hands. (d) To become efficient in any branch of business one must be orderly and systematic in the habits of work. (e) Contrast the difference in individuals and homes where the above qualities are practiced and where they are not. (f) Work is necessary to physical and mental health. (g) Our mortal bodies are the homes for our spirits to dwell in. (h) Necessary that the bodies be kept pure and undefiled. Work, System, and Order in the Home. Thomas Carlyle says that "Work is the gospel of life." We feel that this is true, and the more we study the problems of right living, the plainer this is made to our understanding. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 9 The poet Pope said, "Order is Heaven's first law." Therefore, the earthly home should have, as one of its prime factors, order and system, that the work and discipline may proceed with the least possible friction. Every member of the household should have work for the hands and brains to do, systematically arranged and lived up to, in order to accomplish the highest physical destiny of each family organization. Nature teaches this law of order. As intelligent women we have tested the value and force thereof. To be efficient business women, or to adopt a certain profession, we study along the line we are to follow; then, how doubly important that every woman who takes upon herself the responsibility of wife and mother should make preparation for this most important of all professions and business. Care and discretion are needed here, in order that we may regulate our duties wisely. Our Heavenly Father is willing to give help, to bestow wisdom, if we go to Him, in humility and prayer, "Who giveth liberally and upbraideth not." Let us visit a home where work is done with order and system. All perform their several duties properly; there you will find peace, happiness and comfort. All are contented, cheerful and thrifty. Then go into an adjacent home. Here neglect, indifference, extravagance, disorder and indolence reign. Mark the contrast. In the latter home selfishness, discourtesy, wretchedness, sorrow and misery follow this unregulated course. No woman who understands the laws of health will shirk activity. All hygienic advisers will tell you that beauty is attained only by right physical exercise brain work is an absolute necessity for mental health so is physical labor, to a certain extent, while neither is complete without the other. Spiritual life could not long survive without the support of the physical being. The development of body and soul, heart and mind, is accomplished simultaneously, if both are properly exercised. Our mortal structures are the houses in which our spiritual beings dwell. Then, how all-important that we keep our bodies pure, and well sustained, in form and structure. We are given reasoning faculties. We have intellects. We have inspired writings to instruct us, and many other avenues through which to gain knowledge and information, for we have our free agency. Then, how absolutely imperative that at all times we should work with a will, and keep in order our individual and family life, guard sacredly our obligations to God and all His children, thereby making for ourselves and our people a record clear and untarnished. Let us prove worthy all 10 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN our lives to claim the protection and guidance of Heaven. Let us so arrange our work and our time that order and system will guide us every day of the week. Let us utilize the precious moments and opportunities that present themselves for the development of our mental and physical organizations, and our religious desires. MayHOME GARDENING FOR WOMENLesson V. "Thou shalt not sow thy seed with mingled seed." Lev. xix: 10. The moral and spiritual lesson of mingling seeds: "Be ye not unequally yoked together." The question has been asked, Of what use are the lessons on home gardening to our women? Let us say in answer to this query First, to stimulate the: mother to action, and to secure the co-operation of husband and children in assisting to meet the needs there are for a greater variety of vegetables and food products for our own home use. Second, to demonstrate, by word at least, that gardening pays. It occupies a portion of time for the smaller children, cultivates a desire in them to see something grow; and, we hope, a still greater anxiety to work in the garden and to assist mother. Reliability and responsibility start with the light chores of childhood. We feel that the pendulum must swing back and that we shall all have our little garden patches as our mothers had them in olden days. Thus we may find ourselves producing more of life's necessities. With this little beginning, we hope to prove further the real need of home gardening for women. We trust that in previous lessons we have given you sufficient information to have stimulated you to action, and that you will now have ready your plants for transplanting. We can describe to you in no better way the great need of properly worked soil than by giving the following story, told in an old school reader: "A father, upon his dying bed, advised his sons to dig up the garden, as in it was a buried treasure." They dug it up so thoroughly that it yielded an enormous crop that fall, which showed them where the fortune really lay In good tillage. Transplanting. Cabbage and Cauliflower. Cool weather and moist land are desirable for both. These may be grown on ground that RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 11 has been well drained. When transplanting, the young plants should be kept damp and cool. Planting in the cool of the day gives better results. Have the ground moist, and water as soon as your plants are in the ground. Try the red and purple, as well as the white, variety of cabbage. If the cabbage industry is carried on properly, it is one of the most profitable enterprises of the country. A farm of one hundred and ninety acres, located near Chicago, produces about 1,200,000 cabbages annually. Tomatoes, Pepper and Egg Plants. Some provision should be made for a few extra tomato, pepper and egg plants. Take them from the hotbed, keep them in a slightly cooler place, transplant them in paper cups. The soil for egg plant should be equal parts of fine, rich manure and sandy loam. When setting out the plant, shift them quickly, wet the paper cups, tear out the bottoms, and set cups and all in the hill. Let them have full effect of the sun, as this hastens the maturing of the fruit, especially tomatoes. Beware of frost, and keep covered at night when you have only a few plants. Let this be the duty of the children. Potatoes. Light, rich, loamy soil is preferable for potatoes. Do not select your seed from the first crop. Take those that were not matured when the early fall frost nipped the vines. They produce more vigorously, will mature earlier, and yield a decided increase per acre. You will notice that potatoes having the greatest number of eyes are beginning to run out; it is not necessary that seed potatoes should be as large as those grown for market, but they should contain fewer eyes. Place seed potatoes in a dark room. When the sprouting begins to take place, do not allow the sprouts to become too tender, but expose them to light and air, for a few days before the planting begins. Early Rose and Beauty Hebron are both excellent for quality and quantity. Corn. In selecting a space for corn, let the children also popcorn. have a spot, allowing them to plant a few hills of They will be able to sell sufficient to give them their Christmas pin money. Hundreds of pounds are sold in Utah alone. Any soil that is good for field corn is good for popcorn. It should be planted at least twenty rods from yellow field corn, as the wind and insects can carry the pollen dust from one to the other and ruin both varieties. A good table corn is the Sweet Ever Green; on good average soil two stalks to a hill and three and one-half feet part each way is preferable. Cucumbers. And who with a small piece of ground would 12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN be without a few hills of cucumbers? about four seeds in a hill. Plants may also be started in the hotbed and then transplanted. The White Spine is considered one of the best varieties. Watermelons, Muskmelons and Squash. Melons and squash thrive best in temperate districts. They require a rich, sandy loam, with plenty of sunlight and water. They should not be planted too close together, as they pollenate, as in the case of corn, and ruin both crops. We wish to encourage the raising of muskmelon, especially the old-fashioned kind. Flowers. Dahlias are a tuber-like plant and require plenty of moisture. They should be planted about the last of May or the first of June, as they are tender and easily affected by frost. There are many varieties both in shape and color. Poppies, Asters and Pinks. May be sown in the open ground. Asters, however, bloom much earlier if planted in a house box, and then transplanted in May or June. Verbenas and Petunias. Do well in house boxes, transplanted in May or June. Do not crowd together, as they require more room than many other varieties. The double petunias are very beautiful and easy to raise. Plants that are raised in house boxes should be well protected when planted in the open, as they are tender, and the warm sun, or the frosty nights, will destroy all your past efforts with them. For planting vegetables, follow the rules given in the tables in our April issue, on page eleven. A shallow box placed in the window, with well-fertilized soil, makes up in richness what it lacks in depth. In this you may plant mustard and cress, which will serve as the basis for many a green salad. These two plants grow and will be ready for use in from, two or three weeks a constant supply; can be sown at regular intervals, until the ground outside is in condition to give us other salads which cannot be procured from the indoor garden. An abundance of water must be provided for these plants. If they are to flourish, water them frequently, as the warmth of the kitchen will soon dry the soil. Table of Reliable Kinds of Vegetables. Cabbage (white) Wakefield and Sunhead. Cabbage (red) Savoy and Red. Tomatoes Dwarf, Champion, Stone, Beauty. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 13 Peppers Bull Nose, Ruby, King. Watermelons Cuban Queen, Kolb. Muskmelons Jeremy, Lind, Rocky Ford, Montreal. Squash (winter) Golden Hubbard, Boston, Marron. Squash (early) Summer, Crook Neck. May LITERATURELesson V. (Thirty Minutes.) Ten Minutes Talk on Current Events. Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin. SubjectBeginning of Public Career. ReferencesIn the future the lessons will be taken topically, or according to subject, rather than by chapters. Read chapters 5 and 7, Altemus edition, and pages 83-100 and 136145, Crowell edition. Sentiment "He that lives on hope will die fasting." 1. The Junto Club (Altemus, pp. 116-118 and 178-179; Crowell, pp. 83-86 and 144-145). (a) Object of the Club. (b) Methods of study. (c) Collection of books (Altemus, p. 139; Crowell, p. 111). (d) Extension of Junto Club into a system of societies for mutual improvement, 2. Establishes a Newspaper (Altemus, pp. 120-121 and 170-172; Crowell, pp. 87-88 and 138-139). (a) Busy body. (b) Contents of Franklin's newspaper. (c) Policy of paper. 3. Poor Richard's Almanac (Altemus, pp. 167-170; Crowell, pp. 136-137, also p. 262, notes). (a) Nature of publication, contents. (b) Benefits to people. Questions. 1. How was the Junto Club similar in its purpose to the Mutual Improvement organizations in our Church? 14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 2. What class of young men did Franklin associate with him in this endeavor for mutual improvement? What walks of life did they represent? 3. In what way did the Junto Club become a force for the uplift of the community? 4. What kind of material did Franklin use to fill the columns of his paper? 5. What was his answer to people who wanted to use his paper to spread sensational matter? 6. In what way was Poor Richard's Almanac a practical help to the people? 7. What influence would you say it had on its readers? 8. Give quotations from the Almanac showing Franklin's homely wisdom. 9. Tell the story of the woman who made a success of her deceased husband's business which she found in a dilapidated condition. 10. Give other such examples that you may have heard of. 11. How did Franklin make amends to his brother James for deserting him? 12. Franklin uses the word "ingenious" very frequently throughout the book. Give the definition of this word. MayART AND ARCHITECTURELesson V. (Ten Minutes.) "Be it ever so humble, There is no place like home." Thomas Paine. Unity of house, barns, pens, walks, fences, trees, gardens and flower beds. Dependence of each detail upon the successful planning of every other part. Build your house not only to satisfy the needs of its occupants, but to make possible the best use of all the opportunities afforded by your especial building site, the neighborhood and location. How may an adjustment of line be made by grouping of trees with the house? How may a hedge or collection of shrubs be used to balance the design? RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 15 Home Preparation. Assign one of the following topics to each member Design walks for your house. Make a plan for clusters of trees for shade and orchard varieties to suit the lines of your own home. Plan sanitary pens and a garage or barn for your own yard. Make a design for flower beds. Design arrangement for trellises for grapes or hops, etc. Plan a window for flower tables. Design flower boxes for windows, and what shall be planted in them. For enlargement of this lesson, see Mrs. Alice Merrill Home's book, "Devotees and Their Shrines." Price $1.00. MUSIC. The General Board of the Relief Society desire to call the attention of Stake and Ward Presidents to the beautiful music that was rendered by our General Choir under the inspirational baton of our General Chorister, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, at the late Relief Society Conference in this city. The sympathetic accompaniments on the organ and the exquisitely beautiful organ solo rendered by our organist. Miss Edna Coray, are also worthy of the highest praise. Stake and Ward officers, can you not see an opportunity to follow suit along these lines? There are plenty of good voices in the Relief Society ranks, and the possessors thereof are usually quite willing to spend time and effort in the preparation of music for our Ward and Stake meetings if only encouraged to do so. Any information of a special character or questions concerning musical selections suitable for such choirs can be obtained if you will address Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, General Chorister, Room 28 Bishop's Building. 16 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN WHERE ANNUAL DUES SHALL BE PAID. Please do not send money orders or financial affairs of any nature to the President, Secretary or Corresponding Secretary of the organization. All money for yearly dues or for general Relief Society purposes of any nature should be sent to Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Room 28 Bishop's Building. MONEY FOR BULLETINS AND LESSON BOOKS. All orders for Bulletins or Lesson Books, all money to be expended in this direction should be sent to the Relief Society Bulletin, Room 28 Bishop's Building. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief General Board Society FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Phones Wasatch 3455 and Wasatch 207 Salt Lake City Utah A Grafonola for the Ward $25 Upward $10 Cash $5 a Mo. Play over in your Ward House records of the singing of the famous TABERNACLE CHOIR Also any records you want for any occasion dance popular sacred, etc. Daynes-Beebe Music Co. Main St Salt Lake City Utah. Older than the State of Utah Write for Catalogue and FREE calendar. ICE CREAM SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST" Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc. TWO STORES 55 Main St. 260 State St. Prompt Delivery Phones: Wasatch 32233224 THOMAS HULL ELIJAH A. LARKIN GEO. W. LARKIN ALMA J. LARKIN LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO. EMBALMERS AND FUNERAL DIRECTORS. CHAPEL & PARLORS 255 SO. 2nd EAST ST. Phone Wasatch 5132 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH W N. Williams, Supt. Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y & Treas R. N. Wilson. Asst. Supt Guaranteed Furniture at Lowest Prices Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable. Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Go-Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT Co-op. Furniture Co. M. Next Door South of Z. C. I. SEED and NURSERY BOOK FOR 1914 NOW READY This up to the minute Guide Book is brimming full of information that means Dollars to every Planter of Seeds, Plants, Roses, Shrubs and Trees. It gives complete details for Lawn, Garden, Orchard and Farm. Mention this paper and write for FREE COPY. PORTER=WALTON CO. SEEDSMEN, NURSERYMEN & FLORISTS Cor. State and Broadway. Phone Ex. 717 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. Star Printing Company 35 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 1370 Salt Lake City, Utah Ask your Dealer For "MOUNTAINEER" or "THE LEADER" Z. C. M. I. Overalls don't rip. See you get them School Shoes They keep the children's feet warm and dry prevent doctor's bills, CUTLER'S UTAH MADE GOODS Command Attention Buy At Home Approved Garments Bleached or Unbleached 75c Light Weight $1.00 Lisle Thread $1.00 Medium Weight $1.25 Heavy Weight POSTAGE PREPAID. Provo Dress Goods==Suitings==Blankets. SAMPLES SENT ON REQUEST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH HOTEL UTAH 500 Rooms. Fireproof Opened June 8, 1911 "The very best of every, " thing at sensible prices Rates for room without bath $1.50 and $2.00. With bath $2.50 per day and upwards. Under the Management of GEORGE O. RELF We want your name on our mailing list== To get it we will send you post paid a high grade cut glass jelly dish or a heavy solid gold real stone set scarf pin for $1. MONEY REFUNDED IF NOT SATISFACTORY McConahay, the Jeweler 64 MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY MORRISON BAKERY CO. BETTER THINGS TO EAT CORNER MAIN & 1st SO. 158 SOUTH MAIN ST. CAFE WHILE LABORING FOR THE POOR AND AIDING THE WIDOW IN WANT, DON'T NEGLECT YOURSELF AND FAMILY Have they the proper protection in case of sickness or death of your bread winner or will you be compelled to look for charity? Has he sufficient life insurance to assure you this protection? JOHN C. CUTLER LORENZO N. STOHL 1st. Vice President. 2nd. Vice Pres. & Mgr. INSURANCE IN FORCE OVER $12,000,000.00 JOSEPH F. SMITH President. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home office, Vermont Building Salt Lake City, Utah C. W. NIBLEY RICHARD W. YOUNG Member Ex. Com. Counsel