Relief Society Bulletin Volume 1 August, 1914. Number 8 Issued by the Officers and Directors of the GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 1914 HUMAN SERVICE has come to be a consideration of political parties, or social organizations, and of educational institutions. THE RELIEF SOCIETY has been an Instrument of human service for more than half a century. It ministers to the Immediate material wants of the community. It has been pronounced by many students an Institution for community charity. THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE at Logan aims in a very definite way to make each member of society a more capable producer, a better farmer, housewife, tradesman, agricultural engineer, or business man and thus aims to eliminate want. Its field of work therefore, properly co-operates with the work of relief societies In serving the men and women of the State. While its courses are distinctly practical, it deals in a broad and fundamental way with the basic industries of the State. Liberal instruction Is given in the natural and physical sciences, In mathematics, history, English, economics, literature and languages. The College has been slowly built into an embodiment of the State's idealism. Willes-Horne Drug Company News Building, Salt Lake City. Our Drug Store Is Complete TREATMENT PERFECT. PRICES RIGHT. WE SOLICIT YOUR PATRONAGE. Prompt Attention to Mail Orders. Lambourne Floral Dept. EVERYTHING FLORAL. DECORATIONS. FUNERAL WORK. Etc., Etc. THE L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES has an average enrollment of about 100 Nurses in training. The hospital has capacity of 250 beds. The training school is under the direction and supervision of highly trained graduate nurses from schools of national reputation. It gives a three years course in training in nursing in all its branches. For further particulars address the Superintendent of Nurses Dr. W. H. GROVES LATTER-DAY SAINTS HOSPITAL, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 

INDEX TO LESSON STATEMENTS. PAGE 
Historical Gathering 1 
Editorial Faith 5 
Health and Hygiene Lesson I.... 7 
Lesson II 9
Lesson III 11 
Work and Business Lesson I 13 
Salt Lake City's Fly Campaign 14 

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist. 
1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. 
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City. 
3. WHITE SEWING MACHINE CO., 29 W. First South St. Phone Was. 5234, Salt Lake City. 
4. L. C. SMITH & BROS., Typewriter, 379, So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., UNDERTAKERS, 251-259, E. First South St., Salt Lake City. 
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City, 
7. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City. 
8. LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO., 255 South 2nd East St. Salt Lake City. 
9. L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES, Salt Lake City. 
10. CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City. 
11. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. 
12. HOTEL UTAH, Salt Lake City. 
13. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. 
14. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 8 Main St., Salt Lake City. 
15. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. 
16. MORRISON BAKING CO., 158 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
17. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City. 
18. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main St., Salt Lake City. 
19. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City. 
20. JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake. 22. MARION BANKS, Millinery, and Charlton's Suit & Cloak Co., 321 So. Main, Salt Lake. Ball Bearings Give Greater Speed and Stability to the L. C. Smith & Bros. Typewriter (Ball Bearing, Long Wearing) Because of ball bearing typebars, the keys respond as readily as perfect piano keys. The capital shift works with equal ease no lifting of a heavy carriage but simply shifting the light typebar segment, thus insuring absolute accuracy. Another advantage this machine is complete in itself for all kinds of work: tabulating, billing, large envelopes, cards or paper as narrow as a postage stamp. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE To L. C. SMITH & BROS. TYPEWRITER CO. 379 SO. MAIN STREET Salt Lake City, Utah Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 S. M. TAYLOR & CO. UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 years in one location 251=253=255=257 East First South St. Salt Lake City, Utah MODERN METHODS COMPLETE EQUIPMENT EFFICIENT SERVICE SPECIAL NOTICE SONS & DAUGHTERS of the UTAH PIONEERS -THE L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE was established by your FATHERS for YOU. OPEN ALL THE YEAR. Day and Evening Sessions. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN ORGAN OF THE WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Vol.1. August, 1914. No. 8 Editor Mrs. Susa Young Gates Business Manager Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman Advisory Committee Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams Mrs. Julina L. Smith Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley Publishers and Proprietors General Board of the Relief Society Office Room 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City One Dollar a Year Ten Cents Copy Entered as second-class matter on February 18, 1914, at the Post Office at Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

HISTORICAL GATHERING. The Relief Society of the Box Elder Stake of Zion has set the pace, so to speak, for other stakes to follow, if they so desire, in holding a sort of reunion in recognition of the services rendered by those sisters who were first in the field, and who commenced and laid, as it were, the foundation on which to build and enlarge the work of charity and benevolence, opening up the work by devising ways and means by which the society has been enabled to accomplish much good for humanity. President Stohl issued invitations to all the former members now living, wherever they might be, and also asked that the names of members who had died be collected and be enrolled, to make a complete total as far as possible, of those who had in any sense been helpful in bringing about the prosperity and aiding in the growth and success of this magnificent organization. President Stohl has had this meeting under advisement for some time past and has now succeeded in demonstrating what patience and perseverance can accomplish, when many hands are set to work systematically, when forces are united in a given work. This reunion covers a period of over fifty years, back to the time of the first ward organization in Box Elder County. These initial names of those now long since departed awakened memories that were dear to the hearts and souls of relatives and friends, and were tenderly touching. 2 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. We admire the courage of this President, in her efforts to collect all these names and gather as much as possible from the records kept by these faithful Secretaries, when conditions were not so favorable as at the present time. The women of today owe much to the founders of this society who, under difficulties that would seem insurmountable to this generation, established this society that has spread on both continents, wherever a branch of the Church has been organized. It is something over half a century since the sisters in this desert land met here and there, in each others' homes or in the rude log meeting houses, or wherever it was possible, to unite their efforts for charitable purposes with faith hope and prayers, sing the songs of Zion, and make the most of their small means. The Lord blessed them in their work, and it was crowned with success in many cases. The history of these faithful wives and mothers, were it written, would fill many books. We cannot honor them too much language fails in the attempt to do justice to the efforts; made to accomplish the results recorded, alleviating suffering and caring for the needy and helpless. The old saying that many hands make labor light, was self-evident in this gathering and there is every reason to believe that those who made this large assembly an achievement have surely proved that they have very much satisfaction in the results of their noble and unselfish work. The feast was in every sense most enjoyable 600 people were seated. The expressions of delight on every face, told the story of happiness in unmistakable terms. The house was full of faces beaming with pleasure and the yard was filled with women in holiday attire, with sunshine in their hearts which shed its radiance on all that came near. It was a magnificent spectacle to gaze upon and they all seemed full of joy and gladness. There were flowers everywhere in abundance, in festoons and garlands, which, of course, added to the picture, but the radiant faces beaming with delight, were certainly the greater attraction. After the feast, the company repaired to the Tabernacle, which had been artistically decorated by the Y. L. M. I. A. The stand was literally covered with flowers, and when the audience was seated and the organ pealed forth its sweet strains, which were most entrancing, the choir and congregation sang "Glorious Things Are Sung of Zion." Invocation offered by Annie Wells Cannon, after which Sister Farnham sang "Silver Threads Among the Gold." The Secretary opened the old RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. ' 3 record and called the names of the members of the first organization in Brigham City. Fifty-seven answered to the call, but "where are the others?" was the thought of many present, "Where have ye fled, ye vanished? "We ask, ye do not tell." The minutes of the first organization were read after the and were very interesting; the few speakers could not roll call, express what was in their hearts this was very apparent, the heart can feel what the lips cannot utter in fact, it seemed the; occasion was one to call for silent solemnity. It was almost as though one were in the presence of those departed, whose names had echoed through the building when the roll was called. After the services were closed, there was a time of greeting each other and shaking hands, "when the old friends meet together." This was indeed a historical gathering, and we sincerely hope and trust that other Stakes of Zion "will go and do likewise." While we have the memory of those who helped to establish this work we must not forget those who need us today; the assistance we render, whether in word or deed, all comes back to us in blessing and in comfort to add to our own happiness and to help us in our daily lives. There is much to do, there are hearts to cheer, there are expectations to be realized, there are heights to be attained, there are souls to be saved, and there is abundant work for us all. Do we realize the blessings that have come to us as a people, through the gospel revealed in this dispensation? Are we grateful to our Heavenly Father for the blessings we enjoy, life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, our homes and loved ones? How much of up-lifting has come to the homes of this people, through the Relief Society, what love for each other, what hopes engendered and realized, what difficulties encountered and overcome by our faith and our association! What sorrows alleviated that seemed overwhelming! We have most of us learned to be brave under difficulties, and to be cheerful if only for the sake of others. We must not neglect to make honorable mention of the kindness of the brethren who so generously aided the sisters in honoring the illustrious dead, and those witnesses still living, who assisted in opening up the work of the Relief Society, when all was difficult to establish, and. in fact, to convert the people to the idea of the need of such an association. 4 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. This is a momentous age in which we now live, and there are new ideas, new thoughts, new efforts being put forth to bring about the purposes that are destined to make Zion the pride and joy of which the Prophets have foretold. It will not be done without efforts, and therefore we must be wide awake and diligent in the duties pertaining to this organization. In closing this brief sketch of one of the most interesting reunions of the Relief Society ever held, it seems essential to record the names of some of the Stake Presidents who were successful when there was little means to use and the sisters were necessarily compelled to practice the strictest economy to carry out the purposes of the society. Harriet A. Snow, wife of Lorenzo Snow, was the first Stake President, Olivette D Widerborg the next, and Susanna Booth the third. She was followed by Sarah P. Stohl, the present President; although for a time Sister Emilia D. Madsen, counselor to President Booth, acted with goodly credit until Sister Stohl was appointed. There is a very strong Relief Society of sisters in that stake, composed of women who have not acquired our language sufficiently to be able to express their feelings. This society has accumulated means and brought a number of Saints from their native land to Zion. In fact, it is quite remarkable what they have succeeded in doing. The sisters who were invited to speak at this great meeting were surely equal to the representative occasion. The depth of intense feeling was apparent in every one who made an effort to give expression to a few words of congratulation. In fact, at the close of the meeting, the spirit that had pervaded the assembly was more deeply intensified than heretofore. It was an occasion never to be forgotten by those present. The closing prayer was offered by Sister Emelia D. Madsen. Sister Emily S. Richards and Annie Wells Cannon each spoke a few words. President Sarah P. Stohl made a short but very sympathetic address. President Stohl gave a very appropriate address and expressed his great pleasure in being present on such a remarkable occasion. The music was very fine, but no doubt the feeling prevailed that the spirits of the departed were near. The General President of the Relief Society, who had known all the former leaders in this work, made a few appropriate remarks, alluding to the original founders of this society, throughout Zion. The closing prayer was offered by Emelia D. Madsen, then RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 5 there was a social hour of hand-shaking and greeting, with parting words of love and blessings; the scene was pathetic. yet in respects joyful and hope inspiring. EDITORIAL. FAITH. The custom of appealing to physicians for medical assistance in all cases of sickness has become so prevalent even among the Latter-day Saints, that faith in the healing of the sick has been measurably relegated to the rear. It is true, we still send for the elders, but the physician is, or will be, in the house as well, and we are apt to rely more upon his skill than upon the administration of the Priesthood. While if there is a return of health, we are pretty sure to give the credit to the physician. This people are not narrow in their views on the subject of physicians, but we must sound a warning cry in the ears of the women of the Relief Society, that they fail not in their duty to teach lessons of faith in God and in the laying on of hands for the healing of the sick, to their families. In the rise of this Church, faith was the one and the only recourse in all cases of sickness and disease. Simple remedies were administered and were perhaps a part of the household equipment. But the bottle of consecrated oil occupied the most prominent place in the sick rooms of the Latter-day Saints. The pages of the old Millennial Star teemed with the cases of miraculous healings under the hands of the elders. Who is there that has not seen the wonderful healings made manifest among this people from time to time? Is there any lack of power in the Priesthood? On the contrary, there has probably never been a time in the history of the Church when there has been more power and efficacy in the united ranks of the Priesthood than at the present time. What, then, may be the difference? It is an entirely individual trouble: You and I, dear sister, may be at fault. The moment we are sick, do we take a remedy, or hunt up a physician? And if we hear of a neighbor who has been taken ill, is our first question, who is the doctor, or what does the doctor say? Too much of our time in social affairs is spent in discussing medical problems and medical treatment. The children hear all this and 6 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN consequently when they are sick their first thought is not to inquire for a spoonful of consecrated oil, but to lean upon the doctor and his advice. If we are to retain the established principle of faith for the healing of the sick, we must work at it as we would at any other principle or doctrine which we wish to make a part of our lives. Whenever the need arises with ourselves, or with our dear ones, then call in the elders, as we are told to do in the Scriptures, and if we are not healed on their first visit, let us call them in again and yet again. The Lord will surely heal us if we surely call. We sometimes say we need a physician to tell us what ails us. The Lord is perfectly cognizant of our condition, and he is as able to heal one difficulty as another. I wish the sisters would read Alma's description of faith as given in Alma, chapter 32, verses 26-43, in this connection. This is the simplest and finest description of the manner in which we can acquire that wonderful gift of faith ever recorded in the Scriptures. Hygiene is a necessary part of our religion. We should be clean. We should keep the laws of Moses which were the laws of health. We should be hygienic in all our outgoings and incomings. We should keep the Word of Wisdom and the laws of God, but above all, if we are to have abiding health, we should cultivate daily the gift of faith. In closing let me quote that wonderful passage in the eighty-eighth section of the Doctrine and Covenants just preceding the Word of Wisdom. For this is the epitome of all hygienic laws as well as the foundation upon which are erected that flimsy superstructure known as so-called science "Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault with one another; cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary.; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated. * * * And above all clothe yourselves with the bonds of charity as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfection and peace." We have been giving some summer lessons on the laws of hygiene and sanitation in the home. These follow closely the instructions of Moses translated into modern language and usage. But we must not make even these laws the foundation of our health but seek faith in God and the Priesthood as our foundation stones, building up the superstructure of such hygienic laws and observances as ancient and modern wise men prescribe for us. Above all things, let us cleanse our hearts from envy, strife, jealousy and hatred, thus indeed folding about us the mantle of charity which we are told is the basis of all health of body and mind. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. August HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson I. Care of the Ear. (Forty Minutes.) The ear is a delicate organ easily affected by weakness or and it is particularly sensitive in childhood. disease, It consists of three parts, the external or fleshy part, the middle ear or drum and the internal ear. The deafness which is often a sequel of diseases affecting healthy and beautiful children is a dreadful handicap. When such diseases and fevers come early in life the little patients forget the speech they have earlier learned and thus become deaf-mutes. Deafness sometimes follows measles or smallpox, but more frequently it follows scarlet fever and meningitis. There are also other diseases which cause deafness, such as ulceration, thickening, or perforation of the tympanum (eardrum). Deafness may be caused by obstruction of the lining membrane of the Eustachian tube, or from throat diseases which affect the Eustachian tube. Earache is frequently caused by a cold which gives rise to some of the affections mentioned or it may be from a neuralgic pain. Partial deafness or a ringing in the ears may be caused by an accumulation of wax which becomes hardened, causing pressure on the tympanum. A severe slap on the ear has been known to rupture the tympanum and cause deafness. Ear troubles may be avoided by keeping the child in the best possible condition of health. It is now a recognized fact that by exercising care many children grow to maturity without having the so-called children's diseases. In case of pain in the ear hot fermentation or hot dry applications give relief. Sometimes the neuralgic pain that comes from teething may be relieved by putting in the ear a piece of cotton dipped in warm consecrated oil. To remove hardened wax or foreign substances from the ear take the syringe and very gently indeed give douches of warm water to which has been added soda in the proportion of a level teaspoonful to a pint. The ear should be held downward to help the escape of the foreign matter. The greatest care should be exercised or permanent injury may be done the patient. When this treatment does not succeed, then call a physician a specialist if possible. 8 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. Nose and Throat. The nose is not only the organ of smell, but it also bears a most important part in the act of breathing. By passing through the nose the air is both warmed and strained before entering the lungs. Children should naturally inhale the air through the nose, but sometimes obstructive growths occur and the child becomes a mouth breather. The habit of breathing through the mouth is detrimental to the looks; and more important still, it is detrimental to health, as many diseases are contracted in that way. The throat also bears an important part in breathing, and should be kept free from disease. The obstruction to nose breathing most frequently met with in childhood, and one that is very common is Adenoids This disease, which is an enlargement of small glands situated at the opening of the nasal passage with the throat, gives rise to many and sometimes severe troubles. The condition is recognized by the difficulty the patient manifests in breathing, particularly at night. The patient sleeps with mouth open and the breathing is noisy. He is restless and sleep is disturbed. The disease is usually attended by enlarged tonsils, which is also a frequent cause of earache. The sufferers make slow progress in school. Their countenances are affected, and in case of tonsilitis or diphtheria there is an added danger from this trouble. Rheumatism frequently accompanies these conditions, caused by the absorption of poisons which are generated in the system on account of imperfect aeration of the blood. The respiratory passages being closed, it is difficult to get sufficient air into the lungs. As a preventive measure children should be taught to breathe properly and they should be guarded against taking cold. Also they should be kept outdoors as much as possible, night and day. Indoor children are more likely to have these diseases because they are more susceptible to colds and catarrhal conditions. The removal of tonsils and adenoids by surgical operation usually creates a marked improvement in health. Care of the Teeth. The care of the teeth from first dentition is of the utmost importance. Sound and even teeth add much to the expression of the face and to the health of the individual. Their RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 9 chief purpose is for the mastication of food. Well masticated food, being finely separated and mixed with saliva, is much more easily digested than is possible with the mastication produced by poor teeth. Good teeth also assist in clear articulation when speaking. Dental decay is caused largely by acid fermentation in the stomach, and also by particles of food allowed to remain between the teeth. The teeth should be brushed two or three times daily with soft brush and suitable dentifrice. Teeth are injured by using them for cracking nuts, biting hard materials, or by great contrasts in temperature. Very hot or very cold food or drink is liable to crack the enamel and cause decay. Tartar on the teeth is also very destructive. A competent dentist should be consulted at least twice a year. He will remove tartar and fill cavities and greatly prolong the usefulness of the teeth. Crooked teeth should be straightened in childhood or early youth by a capable practitioner. Teeth are sometimes made crooked and malformation of the gums occurs by the infantile habit of sucking the thumb or finger. The habit should be broken without delay. It is pitiful to see mouths disfigured by bad habits when they might be symmetrical and pleasing. Listeners can often add life and interest to the lesson as given by the class leaders by adding their own ideas and suggestion to the discussion which should follow each of these health topics. August HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson II. Note The Health Committee, having been fortunately put into possession of a group of leaflets from the Salt Lake City Board of Health, have changed the August Outlines, giving the following topics in place of those found in the guide, believing them to be best for all parties. Suggestion It is respectfully suggested and earnestly urged that each Relief Society Ward President appoint a custodian to take charge of the literature sent out by our General Board, who is a conscientious and a capable woman, and that this literature be kept where it may readily be used for reference. If the ward has no library started, this will form a 10 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. nucleus for one. If there is a library already, these circulars will prove a valuable addition. Note We are well aware that despite all precautions, children become ill, and people die. But also we know how well it can be proved that the percentage of deaths has been so greatly decreased by the more intelligent and improved methods in caring for human life. How to Take Care of Babies During Hot Weather. Note Find answers in leaflets with above heading. What is the best food for babies? If baby cries should you feed it? What about the baby's sleep? Its clothing? Its bath? Should babies be tossed about or fondled too much? How may baby sickness be measurably prevented? Give the suggestions as to fresh air, and the effect of much heat. What about keeping the house cool and clean? The arrangement of doors and windows? What about baby sleeping out of doors during hot weather? How protect him? Name some things which should never remain in baby's room. Food and Water. What is a mother's first duty? We have already told what is the best food for a baby, but repetition will impress this upon us. Give one of the chief causes of sickness in babies. What about diarrhoea? Nurse Regularly. Give suggestions as to nursing the baby. What about weaning the baby? Bottle Children. What is the best food for children who have not mother's milk. What is your duty in regard to your dairyman and his dairy? What about the care of the milk? How may the milk become contaminated? RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 11 Nursing Bottles and Nipples. Is it needful to have more than one bottle and nipple? Give directions for caring for them. Sleep. What about habits of sleep in babies? Letting the Baby Alone. What about holding a baby a great deal? Do children like to play by themselves when not trained to it? Never relax watchful care, but give them as much freedom as possible. Clothing. Give directions for clothing the baby in summer Bathing. Should babies be bathed frequently? How often? Why do some children not like their bath? What should be the temperature of the bath? Give some of the rules suggested for caring for sick children. Give some of the DON'TS in regard to feeding. (See cover of leaflet.) The Care of Milk in the Home. Read carefully all the directions given in the pamphlet with the above title, and see that each Relief Society member gets a thorough understanding of the matter contained in leaflet with above heading. If there is time, follow with general discussion and helpful experience from members. Note Read and make use of A Warning to Mothers. August HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson in. The Fly, A Disease Carrier Forty Minutes. Typhoid FeverIts Prevention. Note Please be sure to read carefully the leaflets accompanying the Bulletin and get the full meaning of the illustrated page on the fly. Also suggest that each member of the Relief Society shall commit to memory and repeat to herself each day the four Dont's on the illustrated page. 12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. The Fly. What can you say of the fly in regard to filth? How many stages of development of the fly are there? Please name them. Where are the eggs deposited? Describe the stages of growth and tell how long it takes for the fly to become fully developed. How many eggs will one fly lay? Where are the greatest number of flies hatched? Is there any way of eliminating flies? How? Name some of the diseases which are carried by flies. How can footstuffs exposed for sale be protected? What can you, as an individual, do toward exterminating flies? May a neighborhood be kept free from flies? How? How may "bottle babies" be protected from the sickness that is carried by flies? Would you consider the cost in labor, cleanliness and materials too much if you could get rid of flies? Exterminating the Flies. Please name all the methods that can be suggested for exterminating the fly pest in its breeding places. How may mature flies be destroyed? Which is the most efficient way of all for destroying flies? How may they be killed after being hatched? May we not all be justified in assuming that the campaign against the fly will ere long render our cities and our country places entirely free from this dangerous pest? Typhoid Fever, What is typhoid fever? How is the typhoid baccillus, or germ, given off? How is the fever caused? How does the disease enter the system? How may typhoid be transmitted or passed from one person to another? Water Supply. When there is no water system to carry the supply from an elevated source, what may happen to the water? Where there is no sewer system to carry off the waste from homes, tell how the outbuildings become the source of danger. What is the most usual way of carrying typhoid fever? Name three ways in which milk may become infested. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 13 Tell three ways in which fresh vegetables may become infected. Can you give any reason for outbreaks or epidemics of typhoid? Are there any ways of checking or preventing this dreadful disease? Where there is no sewer system what should every home have? Answer: A sanitary privy. Tell all you can about the following points: First Keeping milk supply Second Keeping water supply. Third The sanitary privy. Tell all you can about the sanitary care of a typhoid patient and what should always be done with excreta from the sick room. Also tell what should be done with the washable clothing, the bed linen, and the eating utensils. How dispose of valueless articles from sick room? How to take care of slops from the sickroom when there is a sewer? When there is not a sewer? How should the nurse take care of her hands? What is used for different per cent solutions? What can be said of carbolic acid as a disinfectant? Tell something important to remember about persons apparently recovered from the disease. Note. In general discussions exchange views as to sanitary conditions of your own homes and your own town. It would be interesting and profitable for the sisters to read the inspired sanitary laws taught by Moses to his people as found in Exodus and Leviticus in connection with these modern lessons and suggestions on hygiene. AugustWORK AND BUSINESS Lesson I. "Sisters, do not find fault, especially with the Priesthood of God. Be patient, be charitable, and remember, 'a house divided against itself cannot stand.' " Zina D. H. Young. Ten minutes talk on Current Events. 14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. SALT LAKE CITY'S FLY CAMPAIGN. By W. C. Stark, Secretary Commercial Club. When the Sanitation Committee of the Commercial Club organized the fly campaign in the spring of this year the members of the committee little dreamed that it would receive such unanimous support, for the first year, at least. Articles on the subject, which had been carefully studied by the committee, all made plain that the extermination of the fly was a matter of tedious education and that little of no results could be expected during the first year of the work. Results in Salt Lake City, on the contrary, have been very gratifying and if the accomplishment of the first year may be taken as an indication of what is to follow, we may confidently look for the complete extermination of the housefly here. Very little general public attention has been given to the subject and it was not intended by those in charge that it should be. An effort was made to actively interest those who were in a position to actually catch flies, and a glance at the 1914 fly statistics in the office of the City Board of Health will prove the wisdom and efficacy of this plan. The first move was made early in the spring. It consisted of a booklet addressed to adults. The booklet contained a story of the fly, its habits and its ability to carry disease. It told where flies breed and how often. It urged the co-operation of every one in the campaign about to be launched. These booklets were distributed through the public schools. Much of the success of the campaign is due to the earnest co-operation of all departments of the city, and especial credit is due to the office of the superintendent of schools, the Board of Health and the City Commission. The City Commission, was then petitioned to declare a bounty on flies. Dr. S. G. Paul joined in the petition presented by the Commercial Club with the result that the City Commission declared a bounty of ten cents a hundred until June 15th, and a bounty of fifteen cents a pint after that time and until fall. A little later another booklet was printed and distributed to school children. It also contained a story of the fly but in simpler form than the one used in the previous book. In addition to the story, practical suggestions were given on how to catch flies. Traps were suggested, baits were discussed and particular mention made of the bounties to be paid. A creditable list by Salt Lake merchants was appended prizes, donated appended. The campaign was on. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 15 Slides were placed in all the moving picture houses. The dangers from flies were depicted in cartoon. Special bulletins were distributed, the newspapers responded nobly and flies came into the Board of Health so fast that extra help had to be employed to redeem them. Every advantage was followed. When an abnormal quantity of flies was brought in from any one district an inspector was dispatched on a motorcycle to look up and destroy the breeding places. Many were discovered. Old manure piles, and 95 per cent of all flies are thus bred, were hauled away and obstinate offenders prosecuted. Slaughter house owners were descended upon and made to clean up under threat of fine and imprisonment. Even some private homes were found supporting open garbage piles and made to improve conditions. Meantime the toll of flies had crept slowly but surely to the million mark. On June 15th, when the bounty of ten cents a hundred expired, well over a million flies had been turned in In addition it is estimated that at least another million were caught and killed in the large traps placed in market row and in restaurants. This work was directly in charge of Mrs. Cook, an inspector of the Health Department, who did valiant service all during the campaign. Mrs. Cook is authority for the statement that at least a million flies were caught through this source. They were not presented for bounty and credit is due both employers and employees for the broad-mindedness of their attitude. Some flies are now being turned in for the fifteen cents a pint being paid. There are not many, however, and it was not expected that many would be. The heavy work of this year's campaign is over and the committee feels well repaid for the efforts made. Later in the year plans will be laid for another campaign in 1915. Lessons learned this year will help its success. Everyone has promised to co-operate and the expert advice of the University of Utah is to be given freely. There are at least two school teachers who will give it unqualified support. One is Miss Ida Roberts, who won a special prize of a trip to Yellowstone Park, because her pupils caught more flies than any other grade in the city from May 15th to June 15th. and the other is Miss Mary Rose, who won a second prize, a check for $15 from the Ladies Literary Club, in this same contest. 16 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. MONEY FOR BULLETINS AND LESSON BOOKS. All orders for Bulletins or Lesson Books, all money to be expended in this direction should be sent to the Relief Society Bulletin, Room 28 Bishop's Building. THOMAS HULL ELIJAH A. LARKIN GEO. W. LARKIN ALMA J. LARKIN LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO. EMBALMERS AND FUNERAL DIRECTORS. CHAPEL & PARLORS 255 SO. 2nd EAST ST. Phone Wasatch 5132 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH A Grafonola for the Ward $25 Upward $10 Cash $5 a Mo. Play over In your Ward House records of the singing of the famous TABERNACLE CHOIR Also any records you want for any occasion dance popular sacred, etc. Daynes Beebe Music Co. Established 1860 Older than the State of Utah Write for Catalogue and FREE calendar. ICE CREAM SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST" Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc. TWO STORES 55 Main St. 260 State St. Prompt Delivery Phones: Wasatch 32233224 Every man, woman and child in Utah should spread their bread with Jensen's Butters Blanchard & Four-in-One Even competitors recognize their superiority Premium coupon in each package. W. N. Williams, Supt. Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y & Treas R. N. Wilson. Asst. Supt Guaranteed Furniture at Lowest Prices Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Go-Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT Co-op. Furniture Co. Next Door South of Z. C. M, I. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Board Society General FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Phones Wasatch 3455 and Wasatch 207 Salt Lake City Utah Marion Banks FINE Charlton's Millinery CLOAK & SUIT CO. The right place for AT REASONABLE PRICES practical styles in GOODWIN CORSETS Women's Wear This ad. will redeem 10 per cent on purchase at regular price 321 SO. MAIN STREET, Opp. Walkers Clearance Sale Now On. Come or Send Mail Orders Star Printing Companies 35 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 1370 Salt Lake City, Utah ASK YOUR DEALER FOR Z. C. M. I. Western Scout Shoes The Ideal Out-door Shoe For Men, Youths, Boys, Cheap, serviceable. Used extensively by Carpenters, iron workers, boy scouts, etc. ''MOUNTAINEER" or "THE LEADER" Overalls are honestly made. They don't rip. We are prepared to supply you with all books recommended for RELIEF SOCIETY CLASSES ALSO ALL RELIEF SOCIETY BLANKS, BLANK BOOKS and RECORDS DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE LEADING BOOK CONCERN No. 6 MAIN STREET HOTEL UTAH 500 Rooms. Fireproof Opened June 8, 1911 "The very best of every, thing at sensible prices " Rates for room without bath $1.50 and $2.00. With bath $2. 50 per day and upwards. Under the Management of GEORGE O. RELF SEE McCONAHAY For Diamonds 64 MAIN ST. The Jeweler===Salt Lake $22 and up *'BETTER THINGS TO EAT'* TWO PLACES CORNER MAIN & SOUTH MAIN 158 SO. 1st ST, WHILE LABORING FOR THE POOR AND AIDING THE WIDOW IN WANT, DON'T NEGLECT YOURSELF AND FAMILY Have they the proper protection in case of sickness or death of your bread winner or will you be compelled to look for charity? Has he sufficient life insurance to assure you this protection? JOHN C. CUTLER LORENZO N. STOHL 1st. Vice President. 2nd. Vice Pres. & Mgr. INSURANCE OVER IN FORCE $12,000,000.00 JOSEPH F. SMITH President. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home office, Vermont Building Salt Lake City, Utah G.W. NIBLEY RICHARD W. YOUNG Member Ex. Com. Counsel