Counsel Relief Society Bulletin Volume 1 Number 3 Issued by the Officers and Directors of the GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 1914 HUMAN SERVICE has come to be a consideration of political parties, or social organizations, and of educational institutions. THE RELIEF SOCIETY has been an instrument of human service for more than half a century. It ministers to the immediate material wants of the community. It has been pronounced by many students an Institution for community charity. THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE at Logan aims, in a very definite way to make each member of society a more capable producer, a better farmer, housewife, tradesman, agricultural engineer, or business man and thus aims to eliminate want. Its field of work therefore, properly co-operates with the work of relief societies in serving the men and women of the State. While Its courses are distinctly practical, it deals in a broad and fundamental way with the basic industries of the State. Liberal instruction Is given in the natural and physical sciences, in mathematics, history, English, economics, literature and languages. The College has been slowly built into an embodiment of the State's idealism. Willes-Horne Drug Company News Building, Salt Lake City. Our Drug Store Is Complete TREATMENT PERFECT. PRICES RIGHT. WE SOLICIT YOUR PATRONAGE. Prompt Attention to Mail Orders. Lambourne Floral Dept. EVERYTHING FLORAL. DECORATIONS. FUNERAL WORK. Etc., Etc. Special Notice to Garment Users. It is recommended and advised by the most particular and careful buyers of L. D. S. Garments that TEMPLE BRAND GARMENTS be used exclusively because of their superior quality, fit and finish. Be sure when making your purchases to look carefully in the neck of garments for the words TEMPLE BRAND, found immediately below the approved label. If they are not there the garment is not the APPROVED TEMPLE BRAND, manufactured exclusively by the Salt Lake Knitting Works for the better class of trade and discriminating purchasers. If your local dealer does not handle TEMPLE BRAND GARMENTS send your orders to Salt Lake Knitting Store, 70 Main street. Salt Lake City. Postage free to all parts of the United States. Prices as follows; Best grade of combed cotton, gauze weight.... $1.00 Best grade of combed cotton, medium weight 1.25 Superior cotton, unbleached, medium weight 1.25 Superior cotton, bleached, medium weight 1.50 Superior cotton, unbleached, extra heavy weight... 1.50 Best grade Sea Island lisle, gauze weight 1.50 Best grade combed cotton, heavy weight, fleeced 1.75 Best grade Sea Island mercerized, light weight 2.00 Wash shrunk, part wool, medium weight 2.00 Wash shrunk. Merino wool, heavy weight 2.25 Wash shrunk. Utah wool, extra heavy weight 3.00 Wash shrunk, imported part wool, light weight, extra fine 3.00 Pure Australian Wool, medium weight 4.00 Remember that postage is free, also that there is no substitution for Temple Brand Garments, and if you are not wearing them now you will some day. Then regret not having done so before. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE Salt Lake City, Utah 

INDEX TO LESSON STATEMENTS. PAGE 
The Saving Habit 1 Genealogy 3 
Home Ethics 6 
Home Gardening 7 
Literature 10 
Architecture 11 
Bulletins 12 
Officers' Meeting at Conference 12 
Relief Society Convention in Genealogy 13 
Benefit Insurance 13 
Book on Art and Architecture 15 

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist. 
1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. 
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City. 
3. SALT LAKE KNITTING WORKS, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City 
4. CRISMON & NICHOLS, 229-231 So. West Temple, Salt Lake City. 
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., 251-259 E. First South, Salt Lake City. 
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City. 
7. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City. 
8. LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO., 255 South 2nd East St., Salt Lake City. 
9. L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES, Salt Lake City. 
10. CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City. 
11. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. 
12. HOTEL UTAH, Salt Lake City. 
13. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. 
14. CUTLER BROS. CO., 36 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
15. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. 
16. MORRISON BAKING CO., 158 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
17. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City. 
18. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main St., Salt Lake City. F. J. NICHOLS C. C. CRISMON GOLD TESTS Melted, Assayed, Purchased Cyanide, Concentration, Amalgamation CRISMON & NICHOLS ASSAYERS and CHEMISTS Office and Laboratory 229 & 231 So. West Temple St. Wasatch 2393. P. O. Box 78 Salt Lake City, Utah Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 S. M. TAYLOR & CO. UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 years in one location 251=253=255=257 East First South St. Salt Lake City, Utah MODERN METHODS COMPLETE EQUIPMENT EFFICIENT SERVICE THE LEADING COMMERCIAL SCHOOL OF THE WEST L D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Highest Efficiency. Lowest Rates. Ask for our Circular. Phone Wasatch 320 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN ORGAN OF THE WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS

Vol. 1. March, 1914. No. 3

Editor Mrs. Susa Young Gates
Business Manager Mrs. Janette A. Hyde
Assistant Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman
Advisory Committee Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams
Mrs. Julina L. Smith
Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley
Publishers and Proprietors General Board of the Relief Society
Office Room 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City
One Dollar a Year Ten Cents a Copy
Application made for entry as second-class matter at Post Office, Salt Lake City.

EDITORIAL.

THE SAVING HABIT.

Many of the women in the Relief Society have been reared by careful New England or European mothers who taught them the value of money, time and physical strength. But few of these women have had either the opportunity or the disposition to train their daughters in the same careful way. The spirit of today, and especially the American spirit, is one of reckless waste—a waste of time, of money and of bodily vigor. The very air is surcharged with extravagance with careless habits and pleasure seeking hours, while most of us pawn the present and possess only debt-burdened futures. The want of today is the debt of tomorrow. If the hour be spent strenuously, it matters little whether it be spent in wasteful shopping, in the deceptively cheap picture-houses, or in giving or going to extravagant social affairs. If ten cents be saved with a trifling self-denial of one extravagant expenditure today, a dollar is thrown away tomorrow on the strength of that first economy. Who measures out his hours as he would priceless radium? Who takes cognizance of his days as a miser would of his hoarded coin? Who guards his rare leisure moments from the devastating demands of silly gossiping telephone calls or idle repinings on his own part for past mistakes? What woman maps out her daily and weekly time as would a soldier, or the

2 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN

head of a successful shoe-shop? What girl is taught to choose her studies in school and her hours of relaxation, with the same care that marks the long family consultation over the schooling periods of the boy? Into these questions enter some of the vital principles of the Gospel of our Lord. For the time is very close, and those whose lamps are burning, must learn to conserve time, oil and purchase-money lest they shall be found among the foolish ones. Time, money, vigor of mind and body, these are our resources. Let us consider them for a moment. The experience of centuries has proved that time is saved by an orderly disposition of the moments and hours that comprise the working day. Moreover, habit, that slave or master, will take charge of much of the waste products of odd moments; and if we have formed the "habit" of using these as well as all the other moments profitably, habit will oil the bearings, smooth out the rough places, and practically assume charge of all our time. And the comfort of following quietly in the path of habit. It is not work, nor burdens that destroy the human system, physical and mental, it is the failure to achieve that which we have planned and desired to do, the misery of seeing the hours slip by without the accomplishment of our cherished desires. Or, worse, it is the feeling of tasks piling up while we recklessly permit interruptions of minor importance to squander our moments, skimp our hours and dull our decisions of what to choose out in the multiplicity of duties that confront us after a wasted afternoon. Such unregulated time numbs the sense of choosing, destroys all poise in the human equation, and unfits any woman for wise living. She becomes a straw thrown on the waves of circumstance, a feather blown by the winds of chance, and a whisper breathed into the uncertain ear of fate. When we approach the question of money-spending we are face to face with the great crying evil of civilized society. For the really poor people are those who waste their financial resources, whether it be ten-cent wastes or ten-dollar wastes, We approach the end of our days in fear and dread lest there shall be no provision for our last sickness, no funds to bury us decently out of sight. The habits of saving can be acquired, any time in life, though far more easily in youth than in age; and far more easily can they be acquired in families where that trait predominates than in families where the habit of extravagance has been the rule for generations. But this habit can be, and certainly should be acquired. How? Let the sisters of this Society answer this question.

RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN

Any woman whose strength is thrown recklessly away in doing useless tasks, whose vitality is burned up in her scrambling to keep up a modicum of house-work, so that her strength may be given to clubs and picture shows, or to the incessant pleasure-seeking indulged in by the dwellers in some of our larger cities, she is the bankrupt woman of the community. How shall we save our strength? Is not work—housework healthful? Are we not counselled to take time for recreation? Must we not cultivate our gifts and mental powers? Shall we not attend the places of amusement as chaperons to guard our growing children? Ah, yes, indeed. But just how? just when? just how much? these are the questions which each woman must sternly set herself to answer. The dear, patient women of the Relief Society who read this appeal for saving habits, will need to talk it over among themselves, and then prayerfully and carefully discover if there is not room for improvement even amongst ourselves.

March

GENEALOGY AND TESTIMONY

Lesson II. Ten minutes talk on Current Events.

How to Prepare Home Material: "And a book of remembrance was kept." Pearl of Great Price: 6th Chap., 5th verse.

(a) Personal information on hand.
(b) Bibles; information on loose papers, temple forms, etc.
(c) Information from living relatives and friends.
(d) Writing to relatives, parish clerks, ministers, etc. (Forms for reply may be had at the Genealogical Society's office.)
(e) Tradition, its uses and dangers. Tombstone inscriptions.
(f) Care of genealogical material.
(g) Family organizations as an aid in gathering information and doing temple work.

Some of our sisters may think it difficult to take up these lessons on genealogy without a teacher. But here is a lesson that all can take, without teacher or outside help, if the directions are carefully followed. The personal information on hand may include old letters, old books, bits of papers, scraps of envelopes, all material on which is written the names and data of ourselves or our dead. Where have you, my sister, kept your own name and

4 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN

birth date, the dates of your baptism, confirmation, endowments, marriage, and date of your appointment to office? Where have you kept the data of your father, mother and all your dead kindred? Have you a carefully prepared, a living record, for your own family, and also one or more records for your kindred dead? If not, why not? If you have such papers, gather them all together into one place, go over them carefully, note things that are obscure, add all missing dates and clues that you can procure, and then get a tin box, with a lock on it, and into this box put all your genealogical books, papers, and letters. This is your most precious possession. No jewels or deeds to property are half so valuable as these records of your dead, and of your own living family. For in one hundred years from now there will be nothing left of you, as there is nothing left of your forefathers today, except a few written words on a sheet of paper. Think how important it is that this genealogical data shall be properly prepared and most carefully preserved. Keep a family Bible. Write in the dates and vital statistics of your family. Or, better still, use one of our Society Living Record Books. The old Bibles of our forefathers are reliable and valuable sources of genealogical information. Write to your relatives out of the church for their old Bibles or get at least a copy of the information contained therein. When you do not know your own or your parents' birth, marriage, baptism, death or other dates, write letters to the ward clerks here at home or to the parish clerks from whence you or your parents came. Write to your relatives both in and out of the church. Don't let this day go by until you have written that long neglected letter for the information which you need and which may be easily obtained. Write to the European or American parish minister. He will charge you a shilling or a quarter a name, perhaps, for copying your names, but it is worth the money. Forms for replies, that is, sheets printed with blank spaces for the writing in of birth, marriage and death data, should be sent. This makes it easy for your correspondents to reply and send all the information you need. If you simply ask a few indirect and vaguely worded questions you are apt to get only short and fragmentary replies. If you send, however, a blank such as we recommend, you are almost certain to get back much information that you would not otherwise procure. Be sure and send a stamped envelope for the reply. Write down all that your memory or the memory of your relatives can supply, both historical and genealogical. Even if it is not accurate, write it down, saying that it is "Tradition

RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 6

and then no one will be misled by such information and yet clues are often obtained from such tradition with which to bind up scattered information. Your Lesson book has plenty of information on this subject. Family organizations permit us to work as women, where many times we would not otherwise be allowed to do so. And many men who are too busy to go into the temples, will contribute money if there is a strong family organization where money can be given and used judiciously. Let the sisters set about forming a family organization in each family unit of the church. Here, also, your Lesson book will give you the needed help. A good work can be done by visiting the cemeteries and copying carefully all the information there found concerning our own families. For our ward and cemetery records have been very poorly kept in the early days.

Review Questions.

1. What is genealogy?
2. When was the Genealogical Society of Utah organized?
3. How old is the practice and study of genealogy and where do we go for the first lessons in it?
4. Why did the people of Egypt and Asia keep genealogy?
5. Why should we be so careful and accurate in keeping and preparing our genealogy?
6. How can we become Saviors on Mount Zion?
7. What is the first step a Latter-day Saint should take in preparing genealogy?
8. Why do the Latter-day Saints build Temples?
9. What has the spirit of Elijah done for the world and why has it come to the earth?
10. Have you prepared your own record?
11. What is the condition of your parents' record?
12. Have you formed a family organization?

RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN

March

HOME ETHICS (20 minutes)

Lesson III. Ten minutes' talk on Current Events.

Sanctity of the Family

Love Should Rule: "A house divided against itself can not stand."

Mutual Confidence:

(a) Prayer. Every home should be a house of prayer; the influence of such will reach to the ends of the earth and eventually draw back to its shelter even the hearts of wayward children.

(b) The glorious sisterhood of women opened up by the organization of the Relief Society at Nauvoo, Ill., March 17, 1842.

Home Education is the Foundation of Society.

(a) Home education.
(b) How the conduct of parents affects the children.
(c) Home education as important as the building of a city or nation.
(d) Each word and act has an effect for good or evil.
(e) Young people need anchors.
(f) Pure and refined parents bequeath these tendencies to their children.
(g) No one else does, or should have the influence with children that fathers and mothers have.

If the thoughts of parents were more centered in their homes, and if they were as earnestly exercised in the consideration of ways and means for rightly educating the moral and intellectual natures of their children as in procuring food and raiment for the perishing body, they would render a service to society as important as if they built a city or founded a nation. Fathers and mothers do not always realize the vital importance of their every word and act on the minds of their young sons and daughters. The impressions formed in childhood are lasting, hence the necessity for constant watchfulness in this regard. Home surrounding and influences are strong elements in laying the foundations for a life of happiness and usefulness, in more ways than one. Young people need an anchor; there is a period in their lives when they have sand-bars and danger points to steer past, and if, in their homes, there is the binding chords of a sure anchor those safeguards will bring them into a good harbor eventually, with but few exceptions.

RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 7

No one else does, or should have the power to shape the destinies of our children that the parents themselves possess. Innocence and kindliness are inborn, culture and education acquired; but neither of the latter have sufficient influence without the possession of the former qualities. We have some times met the most perfect ladies and gentlemen in log cabins, and uncouth, ignorant and selfish people living in homes of grandeur and beauty. The costly dress does not indicate the superior character. What is it makes a lady? 'Tis not her outward dress, But a spirit taught by wisdom A willingness to bless. A soul that loves all virtue, A heart both meek and kind, Will mould the human character And add culture to the mind.

March

HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN

Lesson III (Twenty Minutes.)

(a) House boxes. In the propagation of some of the flowering plants and various garden crops, such as tomatoes, peppers, egg plants, etc., house boxes have been found to be very valuable. Especially is this the case when just a few plants are wanted, because it would not be economical to construct a hotbed for the starting of a few plants. The box is constructed so that it will fit the window sill. After the box has been properly made it should be filled with a good friable soil. This soil should not bake, because the tender plants will not grow under such conditions. A good soil can be prepared in the following manner: 3 parts garden loam. 2 parts well rotted manure. 1 part sand. The above parts should all be screened to avoid lumps of soil, etc. Place the box of soil in position in the window, and after the soil reaches a growing temperature of 60 F., the seeds or cuttings may be planted.

8 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN

Mignonette. It is doubtful if there is any flowering plant more universally known or better liked than mignonette. The mignonette, whether grown for cutting or for pots must have the fullest possible light and air on all permissible occasions. Light and air and a cool temperature will just make the difference between stout, heavy spikes and thin, spindling ones. Sow in August for winter house plants. Sow in the same pots as they are to be maintained in, as they do not stand transplanting. Pot should have plenty of drainage in the bottom, and be filled with a good soil.

(b) Hotbeds. Many plants can be advantageously started in hotbeds. The hotbed should be built in a place where there is good drainage so that the fermentation of the manure will not be interfered with by standing water during storms, because this might stop the fermentation to such an extent that the plants will be killed by the cold air. The hotbed should be constructed of good, fresh horse manure, containing straw bedding. The manure should be turned at least two times before putting it into the hotbed. This will cause it to be of uniform texture throughout and an even heat will be the result. The manure should be two or three feet deep and should be well tramped down. It should be piled high and project at least 1½ feet from the frame on all sides. The bed should be about 10 inches high in front and 18 inches in the back. A convenient sized hotbed is one that will carry six, 3x6 feet sash. This will give ample room for many plants.

(c) Early Planting. Lettuce is a hard, cool season, short season, succession or companion crop, requiring mellow, moist soil, quickly available fertilizers and continuous growth from start to finish. Its culture is very easy and simple. It can be grown successfully both spring and fall. In order to secure a quick growth, it is sometimes advisable to apply nitrate of soda after the plants are set. It is sprinkled broadcast on the surface and raked or cultivated into the soil, at the rate of 200 to 300 pounds per acre. It can be sown as soon as the ground can be worked in the spring. Radishes are known chiefly as an early spring crop in America, although they are sometimes grown in the fall. Radishes are usually used as a companion crop when grown in the

RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 9

field. The seeds are quick to germinate and can be sown early in the spring. Onions. Early green onions are secured by planting mother onions or sets late in the fall or early in the spring. Sets or mother onions will respond to almost any kind of soil, except soils containing too many mineral salts.

(d) Early Flowers. There are many beautiful early flowers among which are found the Easter lily, azaleas, rhododendrons, lilacs, metrosideros, spiraea, mignonette (grown in the house), Dutch hyacinth, tulips and violets. They are all handled a little differently, and time will not permit of a discussion of each of the early spring flowers. Bulbs. There are several very pretty flowers that are grown from bulbs, such as the Dutch hyacinths, Easter lilies, and calla lilies. freesias, tulips They require a good, rich soil composed of about 50 per cent rich loam, 25 per cent well rotted manure, and 25 per cent sand. Practically all bulbs are imported from Holland, between the months of August and November. For forcing they should be potted at once after being received. Tulips, hyacinths, and narcissus can be grown in shallow pans, that will hold about 15 bulbs. They require good drainage. Small bits of broken pots or gravel should be placed in the bottom of each pan or pot. Fill pan with soil. Plant the bulbs so that about one-fourth of them remain above the soil. Water as soon as they are planted and store in a cool place at first, so only the root will grow, cover them with about 3 or 4 inches of coal ashes. Leave them in a cool place for a month or six weeks until the roots fill the pot. After taking them out into the light keep them in a cool place for about two weeks, then take them to a temperature above 70 degrees. Dutch hyacinths can also be grown in a water dish. Freesias. These can be started right off in the house and be grown very successfully under home conditions. Easter lilies can be planted in six-inch pots. They should be started slow, like the narcissus, sometimes two or three months being required before the roots are well started. Take into the house the latter part of November for Easter blooming. Calla Lilies are the easiest to force. They are potted in August in rich soil and require much water. After the plant reaches a height of 10 to 12 inches mulch the top of pot with manure. These bulbs are good for years. After the blooming season lay pot and all on their sides in a cool airy place.

10 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN

March

LITERATURE

Lesson III. (Twenty Minutes.)

Ten minutes talk on Current Events.

Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin:

LESSON III.

Subject: Franklin's struggle in England.

Reference: Chap. II and III, Autobiography.

1. Franklin's disappointment in regard to letter of assistance.
(a) Gov. Keith breaks promises.
(b) Franklin left on own resources in a strange land.
2. Work in English Printing Houses.
(a) Spends first year at Palmer's. Writes pamphlet.
(b) Works for Watts. Works at press, in composing room, and at dispatch work.
3. Effects of Franklin's habits of temperance.
(a) On himself.
(b) On companions in printing house.
4. Friendships with landlady in Duke street.
5. Franklin as a swimmer. Effect on health.
6. Negotiations with Mr. Denham for mercantile business.

QUESTIONS.

1. What was the secret of Franklin's success in making friends so readily?
2. Were Franklin's experiences with Gov. Keith a hindrance or a benefit to him? Why?
3. Mention two advantages he had over his associates in the office because of his temperate habits.
4. What opportunities did he have for obtaining books to read?
5. What was the basis of his friendship with his landlady?
6. In summing up, what would you say Franklin gained by his residence in England?

RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 11

March

ARCHITECTURE

Lesson III. (Ten Minutes.)

The Mountain Home:

The mountain home: A screened porch or a series of porches. The dining porch.

The Mountain Home. The mountain home should be a porch, or a series of porches, all screened, with at least one room added, that can in stormy weather be closed in and easily and quickly warmed by stove or fireplace, preferably the latter. The closed room may be provided with a sliding door on one side, that when open will make the room a part of the large porch. The kitchen should be devised to be open or closed tightly, for in stormy weather the food cools quickly and in hot, dry weather the cook must have the cool breeze that generally stirs in the mountains. If the cabin is set on a steep slope where the view naturally becomes the theme of interest and is the cause for selection of the site, the building may be set up on stilts, as it were. Back of the house the earth should be shoveled away to make room for a path and from this should descend the path leading to the water supply the creek. Two rooms may be built below the porch and if more bedrooms be desired the loft (with screens on either end) may be used as a large sleeping porch. There is one absolute necessity for comfort and health in a canyon home, that is good screens no loop-holes left for the curious gnat, horsefly, mosquito, or house-fly. All porches, windows and doors should be screened and even more important than this, the privy should be screened door, window and vault. An adjustable screen at the back of the vault will save life and prevent sickness.

Preparation. Let each member design a mountain home for her own family. In this plan provide for a kitchen with stove and work-table and shelves, bathroom, if possible; if not, means for keeping wash basins and bath tub, etc. A protected porch

12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN

cover for stationary dining table and cupboard for dishes. Place for storing provisions. Clothes presses; book shelves. Suitable place for hammock. Doors leading to creek, privy and necessary windows in kitchen. Screened living porch. Closed room with sliding door on porch.

ABOUT OUR BULLETINS.

Stake Presidents are expected to apportion the Bulletins to Ward Presidents in strict accordance with the average attendance of the various wards, as reported in 1913. It is also suggested that these Bulletins shall be distributed at the Stake monthly meetings, which will avoid extra mailing expense. When the ward officers fail to receive their regular or allotted number of Bulletin, complaints should be made to their Stake Presidents and not to this office. For no wards are or may be supplied from this office, except when they desire to pay for extra numbers. Extra numbers of the Bulletins for Wards or for individuals can be had at ten cents apiece, so long as they last. The January Bulletins are all exhausted. There are still some Guides left, and plenty of February Bulletins, as we printed a thousand extra to supply the unusual and gratifying demands of our friends. Address all inquiries and Bulletin business letters to Relief Society Bulletin, Room 28, Bishops' Building, Salt Lake City.

OFFICERS' MEETING AT CONFERENCE.

To comply with a number of requests, and to oblige our out-of-town visiting sisters at the April Relief Society Conference, it has been decided to hold the regular Officers' meeting on the second morning of our Conference, instead of the Monday or Tuesday morning, following the General Conference, as heretofore. This will enable all our sisters to be present and to take part in this important meeting. As our Relief Society Conference will convene on April 2nd, Thursday, the:

RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 13

officers' meeting will be held Friday morning. The General Conference itself is to be held on April 4th, 5th and 6th, Saturday, Sunday and Monday, which would put our officers' meeting off till the 7th. But our convention will begin on the 7th, continuing on the 8th and 9th. The notice of the change in the dates for our Genealogical Convention follows:

Relief Society Convention in Genealogy.

The Convention which was announced for April 1st, 2nd, and 3rd, is postponed to the following week, owing to failure to secure railroad rates. The Convention will be held on the 7th, 8th and 9th. The tickets of all delegates will hold good till this convention is over, and none should plan to come to the Convention only part of the time. This is a serious matter, sisters, and needs serious attention. If your delegates are sent here to take these lessons, let that be their prime consideration. All lesson matters should give way to this Convention.

BENEFIT INSURANCE FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

The General Board of the Relief Society have been considering for some time the advisability of introducing insurance as one department of our many activities. Insurance has proved to be a step in the right direction in many ways and whatever there is of good or profit for women, this we eagerly seek to incorporate in our work. With this end in view, a letter was addressed to the First Presidency and an answer received. We append both letters, which are self-explanatory. This matter will be laid fully before you at the coming April Conference.

Salt Lake City, Utah, Jan. 21, 1914.

Pres. Joseph F. Smith and Counsellors

Dear Brethren: We would like to know your mind in

14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN

regard to introducing some benefit insurance into the Relief Society. A number of social and other insurance companies for women are doing quite a profitable business in this community, among them being the Ladies of the Maccabees, the Women of Woodcraft, The Rebecca Lodge, as well as others. These fraternal orders for men and women took out of the state last year $177,213.79. The Ladies of the Macabees alone took out $11,455.91. Some of our sisters join those lodges, while others take out the small benefit insurance from regular companies, some of them located in foreign lands. The idea of having a little fund put by with which to meet burial expense is very attractive to our women. Our sisters have contributed liberally to every form of charity and public activity, such as the building of temples and meeting houses, schools and amusement halls; while doing very much towards furnishing these places. Few have acquired the saving habit, and fewer still are inculcating saving habits in the minds of the young children of today. Too many of our sisters, when they die, are left to the indifferent mercy of relatives, or to the ward authorities. They would be glad to be placed where they could have this last liberal service performed without being a burden on anyone. They could, and many would be willing, to pay a small sum monthly which would insure them their modest burial expenses. Some of our young sisters would gladly pay a small monthly sum that would mature in five, ten, or twenty years. While most children could be taught to put by small sums monthly towards paying for their schooling or missions when old enough for that need. The habits of saving would be of more value to them in developing character than the monetary benefits. We have applied to the Beneficial Life Insurance Company which has our President Joseph F. Smith at its head, and which is also officered by our own brethren, to give us rates and details of such a scheme as we have suggested. We enclose a copy of the rate list made out for us. We would expect to work entirely through the powerful, reliable and courteous company named. Agents would be appointed in each ward and stake, but the business details would be handled by the Beneficial Life Insurance Company. What premiums accrued to our Board over and above the running expenses would be turned to Relief Society work.

RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 15

We lay this matter before you, and trust to hear from you as soon as convenient.

We are Your sisters in the Gospel,

Emmeline B. Wells, President.

Clarissa S. Williams, First Counsellor,

Julina L. Smith, Second Counsellor,

Salt Lake City, Utah, Jan. 27, 1913.

Prests. Emmeline B. Wells, Clarissa S. Williams, Julina L. Smith, Relief Society.

Dear Sisters: We approve the suggestion outlined in yours of the 21st inst., to introduce and maintain a system of benefit insurance in connection with Relief Society, believing that this departure from relief work would be a means of supplying an income for the Society itself, as well as be the means of inducing and encouraging our sisters to form the habit of saving means which otherwise would doubtless be disposed of unwisely. It is understood by us that the officials of the company with whom you have been talking in regard to this matter are to render you all the necessary clerical assistance, especially at the outset, also that the company is to furnish the Society with the necessary books, etc., and otherwise co-operate with you with a view to making this movement the success we all wish it to become.

Your brethren,

Joseph F. Smith,

Anthon H. Lund,

Charles W. Penrose,

First Presidency.

BOOK ON ART AND ARCHITECTURE.

Inasmuch as there are so many inquiries for the expensive books on Art and Architecture, the General Board of our Society have asked Sister Alice Merrill Home to prepare a

16 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN

book suitable for our lessons and our Utah home conditions on these subjects, the cost not to exceed one dollar. The book will be illustrated and will contain many suggestions for the improving and beautifying of our modest homes and home surroundings. It will contain a chapter on the architectural designs for meeting houses and Relief Society halls. Some guiding principles in the study of art will be given with illustrations. The book will embrace a two-years' lesson course, or more, and will prove indispensable to all Relief Society workers. Exteriors and interiors will both be treated in a simple, but effective, way. Each ward will, no doubt, require at least one of these books, while officers and members will be glad of this unique and valuable work. We suggest to our officers that they do not purchase other books on this line, but wait for our home product, which will be ready in April. The supply will be limited, and orders may be sent in at once to this office. This is our first attempt to supply and prepare a lesson book, and we trust our friends will support this enterprise liberally.

BURIAL CLOTHES

Relief Society General Board

FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS

Phones Wasatch 3455 and Wasatch 207

Salt Lake City Utah

Star Printing Company

35 Post Office Place

Phone Wasatch 1370

Salt Lake City, Utah

ICE CREAM SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST"

Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc.

TWO STORES

55 Main St. 260 State St.

Prompt Delivery

Phones: Wasatch 3223-3224

THOMAS HULL ELIJAH A. LARKIN GEO. W. LARKIN ALMA J. LARKIN

LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO.

EMBALMERS AND FUNERAL DIRECTORS.

CHAPEL & PARLORS 255 SO. 2nd EAST ST.

Phone Wasatch 5132

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

W. N. Williams, Supt. Clarissa S. Williams. Sec'y & Treas R. N. Wilson. Asst. Supt

Guaranteed Furniture at Lowest Prices

Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable.

Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Go-Carts, Etc.

Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT

Co-op. Furniture Co.

Next Door South of Z. C. M. I.

L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES

The Dr. W. H Groves Latter-day Saints Hospital has a Training School for nurses, which has an average attendance of about one hundred nurses in training. The Hospital, with the new wing, has a capacity of 250 beds, and gives a thorough course in surgical, medical, obstetrical, infant and accident nursing. It is also equipped with a department for giving hydro and electro-therapy treatments. If you want a training equal to any in the United States, take this course at the L. D S. Hospital, If you want to be classed as one of the best nurses in the United States, take a Training at the L. D. S. Hospital. If you want to be the possessor of a diploma which will place you among the best in this profession, take the course given at the L. D. S. Hospital If you want an occupation that will help you through life, take a course of training at the L D. S. Hospital If you wish to become a better citizen, better wife, or better mother, take this course of training. Some schools may give a diploma in six months or a year, but If you are ambitious nothing less than a course at the L. D. S. Hospital will ever satisfy you. Write at once to the Supt. of Nurses for further particulars

Ask your Dealer For

MOUNTAINEER" or "THE LEADER"

Z. C. M. I. Overalls don't rip. See you get them

School Shoes

They keep the children's feet warm and dry—prevent doctor's bills,

CUTLER'S

UTAH MADE GOODS

Command Attention

Buy At Home

Approved Garments

Bleached or Unbleached

75c Light Weight = $1.00

Lisle Thread $1.00

Medium Weight $1.25

Heavy Weight

POSTAGE PREPAID.

Provo Dress Goods==Suitings==Blankets.

SAMPLES SENT ON REQUEST.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

HOTEL UTAH

500 Rooms. Fireproof

Opened June 8, 1911

"The very best of every, " thing at sensible prices

Rates for room without bath $1.50 and $2.00. With bath $2. 50 per day and upwards.

Under the Management of GEORGE O. REYNOLDS

We want your name on our mailing list==

To get it we will send you post paid a high grade cut glass jelly dish or a heavy solid gold real stone set scarf pin for $1.

MONEY REFUNDED IF NOT SATISFACTORY

McConahay, the Jeweler

64 MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY

**BETTER THINGS TO EAT"

TWO STORES

CORNER 158 MAIN & 1st SO.

SOUTH MAIN ST.

WHILE LABORING FOR THE POOR AND AIDING THE WIDOW IN WANT, DON'T NEGLECT YOURSELF AND FAMILY

Have they the proper protection in case of sickness or death of your bread winner or will you be compelled to look for charity? Has he sufficient life insurance to assure you this protection?

JOHN C. CUTLER

LORENZO N. STOHL

1st. Vice President.

2nd. Vice Pres. & Mgr.

INSURANCE OVER IN FORCE $12,000,000.00

JOSEPH F. SMITH

President.

Beneficial Life Insurance Co.

Home office, Vermont Building

Salt Lake City, Utah

C. W. NIBLEY

RICHARD W. YOUNG

Member Ex. Com.