Relief Society Bulletin Volume 1 October, 1914. Number 10 Issued by the Officers and Directors of the GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 1914 HUMAN SERVICE has come to be a consideration of political parties, or social organizations, and of educational institutions. THE RELIEF SOCIETY has been an instrument of human service for more than half a century. It ministers to the immediate material wants of the community. It has been pronounced by many students an Institution for community charity. THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE at Logan aims in a very definite way to make each member of society a more capable producer, a better farmer, housewife, tradesman, agricultural engineer, or business man and thus aims to eliminate want. Its field of work therefore, properly co-operates with the work of relief societies in serving the men and women of the State. While its courses are distinctly practical, it deals in a broad and fundamental way with the basic industries of the State. Liberal instruction is given in the natural and physical sciences, in mathematics, history, English, economic, literature and languages. The College has been slowly built into an embodiment of the State's idealism. Willes-Horne Drug Company News Building, Salt Lake City. Our Drug Store Is Complete TREATMENT PERFECT. PRICES RIGHT. WE SOLICIT YOUR PATRONAGE. Prompt Attention to Mail Orders. Lambourne Floral Dept. EVERYTHING FLORAL. DECORATIONS. FUNERAL WORK. Etc., Etc. THE L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES has an average enrollment of about 100 Nurses in training. The hospital has capacity of 250 beds. The training school is under the direction and supervision of highly trained graduate nurses from schools of national reputation. It gives a three years course in training in nursing in all its branches. For further particulars address the Superintendent of Nurses Dr. W.H. GROVES LATTER-DAY SAINTS HOSPITAL, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. INDEX TO LESSON STATEMENTS. PAGE

Editorial 1  
Work and Business 2  
Genealogy and Testimony 3  
Art 4  
Literature 8  
Home-Ethics 9  
Home Gardening for Women 11  
Notices 13-14  

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY

Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist.

1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah.  
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City.  
3. WHITE SEWING MACHINE CO., 29 W. First South St. Phone Was. 5234, Salt Lake City.  
4. L. C. SMITH & BROS., Typewriter, 379½ So. Main St., Salt Lake City.  
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., UNDERTAKERS, 251-259 E. First South St., Salt Lake City.  
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City.  
7. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City.  
8. LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO., 255 South 2nd East St. Salt Lake City.  
9. L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES, Salt Lake City.  
10. CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City.  
11. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City.  
12. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City.  
13. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 8 Main St., Salt Lake City.  
14. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City.  
15. CUTLERS, 36 S. Main St., Salt Lake City.  
16. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City.  
17. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main St., Salt Lake City.  
18. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City.  
19. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City.  
20. JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake.  
21. MARION BANKS, Millinery, and Charlton's Suit & Cloak Co., 321 So. Main, Salt Lake.  
22. SCRACE'S BAKERY, 24 S. Main, Salt Lake City.  

ADVERTISEMENT: L. C. SMITH & BROS. TYPEWRITER

Ball Bearings Give Greater Speed and Stability to the L. C. Smith & Bros. Typewriter  
Ball Bearing, Long Wearing

Because of ball bearing typebars, the keys respond as readily as perfect piano keys. The capital shift works with equal ease—no lifting of a heavy carriage but simply shifting the light typebar segment, thus insuring absolute accuracy.

Another advantage—this machine is complete in itself for all kinds of work: tabulating, billing, large envelopes, cards or paper as narrow as a postage stamp.

WRITE FOR CATALOGUE To L. C. SMITH & BROS. TYPEWRITER CO.  
379 SO. MAIN STREET  
Salt Lake City, Utah  

ADVERTISEMENT: S. M. TAYLOR & CO.

Established 1860 Incorporated 1908

S. M. TAYLOR & CO.  
UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS  
Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR  
The Pioneer Undertaker of the West

53 years in one location  
251-253-255-257 East First South St.  
Salt Lake City, Utah

MODERN METHODS  
COMPLETE EQUIPMENT  
EFFICIENT SERVICE  

ADVERTISEMENT: L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE

A SUCCESSFUL COLLEGE GROWS

In one year our increase has been forty per cent.

L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE  
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

Day Sessions: seven dollars a month  
Night Sessions: four dollars a month  

RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN ORGAN OF THE WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Vol. 1. October, 1914. No. 10 Editor Mrs. Susa Young Gates Business Manager Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman Advisory Committee Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams Mrs. Julina L. Smith Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley Publishers and Proprietors General Board of the Relief Society Office Room 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City One Dollar a Year Ten Cents a copy Entered as second-class matter on February 18, 1914, at the Post Office at Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

EDITORIAL. Conserving Our Resources. With all Europe at war, with prices in our country steadily rising to unbelievable heights, with famine and pestilence sure to follow close on the heels of war, the women of the Latter-day Saints have much to do. President Emmeline B. Wells has published a call in the Deseret News for the sisters of the Relief Society to form companies and to gather up the fruit that is wasting in so many places and dry it for the poor in the winter season that will come. What else may we do? Many women in the East, in fact all over this land, are storing up flour, fruit, beans, dried corn, clothing, in short all that can be conveniently stored, for two or three years ahead. Shall the sisters of our Society be less cautious and fore-handed than the women of the world? Many of the sisters in Salt Lake City have bought one and two thousand pounds of flour, storing it in their small garrets for lack of proper bins, and they are putting up all the fruit that they can secure for a future possible shortage. The spirit of conservation of all our resources, both within and without the home, is abroad. "Men's hearts are failing them for fear." There is no doubt that this war will bring much suffering all over the earth, but be ye not moved, for "the end is not yet." There may be many more such wars, and many calamities. The Lord has blessed us with most bounteous harvests, 2 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. this year, and this people should not waste their means nor their opportunities. Amusement houses and department stores in this city are alarmed with the falling off of their custom this early in the season. But the people have caught the spirit of rigid economy, and what with unsettled conditions in our own country, and wars abroad in the world, there is need for the most careful summing up of our resources, and of keeping a check on all lines of needless expenditures. There is no occasion for fear or for excitement amongst this people. At one time Apostle Brigham Young was returning from Europe when a great storm arose at sea, which found him whistling and singing in his usual cheerful mood, as he rolled about the upper deck. Approached by one of the elders and asked why he was thus engaged when the rest of the company were on their knees in prayer in the cabins below, Apostle Young replied "I said my prayers when it was calm. I expect the Lord to take care of me in the storms." Thus, we should be calm, restrain all excitement and confusion, but we should go steadily forward in our efforts to lay aside all the supplies that are in our possession. Many of our sisters live in country places, and they will feel it something of a hardship to take care of so much fruit and grain, for there is a surplus everywhere. But let them study carefully ways and means to do this while sisters in the city should husband; their pennies to purchase supplies, and thus both in city and country we will be prepared for whatever may come. And if the famine or hard times do not come this winter, these things will eat nor drink nothing, so that we may renew our stores from year to year, and go to bed at night with the comfortable feeling that we have at least done our duty. Sisters, let us prepare for storms in times of calm and comparative peace, for this has been the advice of our leaders from the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and it is today the advice of President Joseph F. Smith, and of our own Presidency of this Society. OctoberWORK AND BUSINESS Lesson I. "Have we brought gladness unto any heart, or cheered with tender words or acts of love, the lowly or sorrowing, or the poor? If so, 'tis well; angels approve such acts." Emme- line B. Wells. Ten minutes talk on Current Events, RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. October GENEALOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson II. Ten minutes talk on Current Events. Relationship "In thy seed shall all the kindred of the earth be blessed." Acts: 3:25. Following is the prevailing mode of designating relationship: The parents of your father or mother are your grandfather and grandmother. The parents of your grandfather or grandmother are your great grandfather and great grandmother. The parents of your great grandfather or great grandmother are your 2nd great grandfather and 2nd great grandmother. The parents of your 2nd great grandfather or 2nd great grandmother are your 3rd great grandfather and 3rd great great grandmother, etc., etc. The children of your brother or sister are your nephews and nieces. The children of your nephews or nieces are your grand nephews or grand nieces. The children of your grand nephews or grand nieces are your great grand nephews or great grand nieces. The children of your great grand nephews or great grand nieces nieces are your 2nd great grand nephews or 2nd great grand nieces, etc., etc. Your father's brother or sister is your uncle or aunt. Your grandfather's brother or sister is your grand uncle or grand aunt. Your great grandfather's brother or sister is your great grand uncle or great grand aunt. Your 2nd great grandfather's brother or sister is your 2nd great grand uncle or 2nd great grand aunt. Your 3rd great grandfather's brother is your 3rd great grand uncle or 3rd great grand aunt, etc., etc. The children of your uncle or aunt are your (1st) cousins. The children of your (1st) cousins are your (2nd) cousins. The children of your (2nd) cousins are you (3rd) cousins. The children of your (3rd) cousins are your (4th) cousins, etc., etc. The children of your grand uncle or grand aunt are your 2nd cousins. 4 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. The children of your great grand uncle or great grand aunt are your 3rd cousins. The children of your 2nd great grand uncle or 2nd great grand aunt are your 4th cousins. The children of your 3rd great grand uncle or 3rd great grand aunt are your 5th cousins, etc., etc. Rule: The relationship is always counted FROM the heir to the dead. As: John Young (son), b. 6 Mar., 1763, d. 12 Oct., 1839. That is, Brigham Young, the Heir, is the "son" of John. It is very important to establish a relationship from the heir in the family to the head individual. For it is another clue by which to identify the dead. While it establishes our claim to our friends and relatives. Dates, names and relationship might be compared to the features of a man's face. The more clearly we can discern them the better is the chance for identification. There may be and are thousands of John Youngs, and there were certainly over nineteen John Youngs who fought in the Revolutionary War but only one of them was the father; of Brigham Young; so with all our names and relatives. In order to avoid confusion and duplication in temple work, it has been decided by the proper authorities that there shall be a limitation in the line which we are at liberty to follow in our ancestry. The four lines are, the father's line, the mother's line, the mother's mother's line, and the father's mother's line. If we desire to take up collateral lines or to follow back our own ancestors' lines beyond this limitation, we may be permitted to do so if we first secure the consent of the President of the Temple in the district in which we reside. Secondly, we should write to the Deseret News Department of Genealogy notifying any one who may be of that lineage, of our desire to take up the line, and send up a similar notice to the Genealogical Society of Utah. This will make everything clear and avoid confusion. October ART Lesson III. John Singer Sargent. John S. Sargent has been called the greatest portrait painter since Sir Joshua Reynolds, and many rank him with Van Dyke. Even the great American (Whistler divided honors in Europe with his countryman, Sargent. These rivals in art, though both were compared with Velasquez, were totally RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. unlike, both as men and as artists. Whistler, ''the observed of all observers," loved company and fenced with words to the humiliation of lawyer, critic and wit. But for his etchings and paintings he hunted out subjects of which laymen never so much as dreamed. Forever divorced from the commonplace, his art was aloof, poetic and filled with mystery. John Sargent, on the other hand, built a wall of reserve about himself and kept the whole world at a distance. When he mingled in society he never became its life, nor even a part of it. Strange then, is it not, that he should choose his sitters from its devotees, the wealthy, the fashionable and the proud? He painted those who could pay the price which was not small. Five thousand dollars is dear when the artist deliberately paints the worst side of his subject and even keeps true to the model, but ignores beauty. Instead of trying to please his patrons, Sargent often seemed to delight in showing up the shallow, the grasping. And still the crowds came for portraits. Whistler died in 1903, and the writer saw in all the local and international exhibits of 1904, his last pictures hung with crepe. Sargent still paints is perhaps even now painting the; portrait of Emperor William in Berlin or of Franz Josef in Austria his whereabouts is unknown since war so suddenly enveloped Europe with her cultured peoples and treasures of art. Like Whistler and Brush, Sargent sprang from a race of fighters and statesmen, of men of science, whose mothers were artists painters. Whistler's life was one continuous battlefield. He forced recognition for his art, after long struggles. His many jeering, taunting enemies, he silenced with his tongue, but his brush and pen, mightier than legions of swords, won him, before he died, the tribute "As great as Rembrandt." On the other hand, Sargent was recognized from the first. He was born and cradled in Florence, "name to conjure with." where his American parents were resting on their travels. He found painting easy, in fact, he could always paint and draw. This facility enabled him to finish a portrait in one sitting. Lest you should think Sargent one of those "natural born" artists, who thinks he need not study because of his great talent, let me whisper ever so lowly, Sargent thinks it not too much to paint a head and scrape it off thirty or forty times or until it suits him. Then it is very near perfection perfect in color; fresh, clean, simple, vigorous, strong, and never marred by varying moods. That tells you. I hope, what a Sargent portrait means. Sargent, while abroad with his parents, learned to speak six languages with ease. but was loyal to his ancestry, and when 6 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. offered the privilege of English citizenship by Queen Victoria, declined, claiming to be an American. He learned to paint at his mother's knee, and while a boy met Frederick Leighton, an English painter of note, who gave him encouragement. In 1874 he went to Paris and entered the class of Carolus Duran, who soon discovered his unusual talent. He was accepted at the Salon at the age of 22 and the following year showed a painting of his teacher which appeared to be the work of a mature artist. Sargent went to Spain to worship at the shrine of Valasquez; then to North Africa, where he painted his famous "El Jaleo, " now in the Boston Museum of Art. It is a dancing girl, swaying to the rhythm of stringed instruments. Already famous for his portraits, he returned to Paris to open a studio but it was in London that he made his permanent home. There favors and honors were tendered him. After three years he went to New York, his fame preceding him. The Americans crowded him with orders as they did always at each recurring visit home. In 1880 he was commissioned to decorate a hall in the Boston Public Library. "The Frieze of the Prophets," and was well received by the Bostonians. The artist went to Egypt to make preparation for this work by studying Egyptian color, symbolism and life. Edwin A. Abbey, another noted American, had also a commission and the two painters worked together for two years in England. The result was the "Sargent Gallery" and Abbey's "Quest of the Holy Grail," now to be seen in the Boston Library. In 1899 Sargent exhibited, under the Art Students' League, a large collection of his work, mostly portraits. Of his many portraits that of "Marquand" is one of the greatest. In 1907 Sargent was honored by being invited to paint a portrait of himself for the Uffizi of Florence, this privilege is reserved for those who have conquered for themselves. Sargent would have made a great musician. Often he rests himself by playing Chopin and Beethoven. Could Sargent break through his critical shell of reserve more completely we would know better the real Sargent, the greatest Sargent, which has only been suggested in the Boston Library decorations and in one portrait called "Carnation Lily, Lily, Rose." This was only a picture of a child in a garden of flowers. Whistler, who liked to say clever, witty things almost as well as he loved to paint wonderful pictures, called it "Darnation Silly, Silly Pose." George De Forest Brush. George de Forest Brush, the painter of not Madonnas but "Mother and Child" is, in the humble opinion of the writer, the greatest of all Americans in art, save only "Whistler. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 7 He lives in Florence surrounded by the environment of the best Italian art. Brush has created his own style, which is very different from his two contemporaries, Whistler and Sargent. He has chosen to portray the human emotions love of mother for the child, and teaches us the value of a few models well understood over superficial study of many. For years he has painted his wife and brood of little ones. His wife is a beautiful, refined, sensitive Swede. Is there a sweeter beauty than that of the Americanized Scandinavian? If you have the good fortune to visit the great American cities, look for a "Mother and Child" by Brush. There are famous ones in the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, Museum of Boston, Corcoran Art Gallery, and at the Metropolitan in New York City. The writer saw his famous group of Mother and Children. There were ' seven of the latter at last accounts. The cartoons which follow Brush invariably have a stork landing a new baby. The family group, already referred to, seemed filled with the decorative quality, with sentiment, feeling, purity of tone and color, and the handling so dextrous, so free from the appearance of effort, impressed the writer with much the same power as did the work of Whistler, Puvis de Chavaunes and Bottichelli. Brush is a native of Tennessee. He went to Paris and studied under Jerome, remaining at the Beaux Arts six years. He first painted the Indian and was so interested in this study that he lived among the Western red men a year and a half. He won marked recognition by "The Silence Broken" and "The Sculptor and the King," both Indian subjects. Marriage again opened his field and he now devotes himself, in the city of Florence, to painting his beautiful and artistic family, immortalizing them with his work. Artistic Europe will probably be destroyed in the great war now raging. The next art center must be America. It is well that our country has now such splendid art collections and so many artists who are entering the higher fields. When Europe emerges from her wounds she must come to our shores to be taught. Shall we be ready to do for her what she has so long and generously done for Americans? QUESTIONS. What opinion is expressed in Brush? Tell of his models and life. What do you think of his subjects? What does Hafen say of John Sargent? How did he become the greatest modern portrait painter? What effect has work had on his art? What is his sweetest work? What would you call the true 8 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. Sargent? What of Sargent's present whereabouts? If the art of Europe destroyed in the present and approaching wars is where will the new art centers arise? What preparation have American artists made to each are in America, should the other great art centers be destroyed? What work must be done by the American people before they can sustain at home the many gifted Americans who will be forced to return to their native land for subsistence? Why should every American know who are our best artists and be posted on their art work? What do you think of the destruction of Louvain? Do you think the present wars are directly or indirectly the result of commercialism as against art? Where are Sargent and Whistler placed by Hafen? Read Hafen's letter. October LITERATURE Lesson VL (Thirty Minutes.) Ten Minute Talk on Current Events. Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin: Subject: Franklin as a public benefactor. Sentiment: "A quarrelsome man has no good neighbors." 1. Establishes public library. (First project of a public nature.) Altemus edition, pp. 136-143. Crowell edition, pp. 98-100; 111-113. 2. Establishes police force. Altemus, pp. 182-183. Crowell, pp. 148-149. 3. Establishes fire company known as the Union Fire Company. Altemus, pp. 184-185. Crowell, pp. 149-150. 4. Invents open stove. Altemus, pp. 207-209. Crowell, pp. 168-169. 5. In connection with Dr. Bond, establishes hospital in Philadelphia. Altemus, pp. 216-219. Crowell pp. 176-79. 6. Suggested plans for cleaning and paving streets. Altemus, pp. 221-223. Crowell, pp. 180-182. QUESTIONS. 1. How did Franklin begin the first subscription library in America? 2. What name was given to the library? 3. In what year was it established? RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 9 4. What are the benefits of a public library? 5. What use did Franklin make of the library? 6. Compare the original fire company in Philadelphia with a modern fire department in a large city. 7. What advantage was the open stove over the old fireplace? 8. Compare Franklin's attitude relative to patents with that of the inventors today. 9. How were the Philadelphians converted to the idea of lighting the streets? 10. How did Franklin secure funds from the Assembly to assist in the establishment of a hospital? 11. Whenever Franklin wished to promote a scheme, what was his first step in the matter? 12. Name the public benefactions of Benjamin Franklin. October HOME ETHICS Lesson VL Causes of Infidelity and Indifference to the Gospel of Christ: 1. If parents fail to live up to the principles in which they outwardly profess to believe, the child in the home will detect it. The religion that is but a veneer will destroy confidence in the family circle and will create a weakening of confidence, which will result in indifference to religion. 2. Parents have a first duty to teach their offspring the gospel of Christ which has been given solely for a guide to present action and a goal for future effort. How many children would know how to even try to be Christ-like, without this knowledge was obtained from the father and mother? We teach our children what their many pioneer ancestor? have done in the redemption of a desert, but neglect to tell them why they came. Are you assisting your sons to get an understanding of the saving power of the Priesthood and to attend their Quorum meetings faithfully? How to Choose Between Good and Evil. 3. An understanding of art will aid in teaching young people how vulgar and inartistic are rag-time and rag dancing. Take your children to Mutual and Primary, where they will learn the beautiful dances. Help them to distinguish and understand between the vulgar and common and the pure, the beautiful and dignified. Three great principles of art are 10 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. simplicity, dignity and technical rendition. Learn to dance perfectly, daintily, and yet with dignity. In topic 4 we refer to learning the principles of the Gospel so that we may know how to be good. A person once said to President John Henry Smith: "So and So is such a good man!" He asked in reply "What is he good for?" When no: answer seemed forthcoming, he said "Every man and woman: must be good for something, if their goodness is to avail!" From this we glean that we have a second duty as parents, to teach our children technically how to take part in the home activities and how to do something perfectly so that they may sustain themselves and not be a burden. Do you desire that your child shall grow up in purity and truth? Then see to it that idleness shall not destroy him. There is no surer way of training a child in the way he should walk than to teach him how to work, how to make something, how to add to the sweetness of home. There is no better way to teach fortitude, honesty, integrity, courage, dignity and self-respect than by making things with the hands, that are perfect in use and beauty. Not trying once, but daily receiving the same training which must go a long way toward strengthening the purpose and power of the child to live up to the principles of the gospel. There couldn't be a better saving machine than the getting of head and hand to work together in making something of use and beauty. How wicked to allow children to grow up without home cares, with no flowers to tend, no trees, no garden, but only a dirty yard, a filthy house. How dreadfully dulled will be the child who never learns how to play and "play fair." The boy who understands town ball, and plays well, and who "plays fair," will not be the one to raise prices when war gives him such an opportunity. Discussion. To what liberties is a child entitled? When should a boy and a girl be at home? When may the child be trusted away from home influence? Is the street a safe place for children? Why not? When is absence from home dangerous and destructive of modesty and virtue? Do you believe in the chaperone and why? What effect has the parents' example upon the religion of the child? What effect has neglect to teach the gospel on a child? What do you think of hypocrisy? Do you think that a person who does right for personal ends is apt to be a rogue and known as such to the child in the home? Why are work and competence saving powers? Why are idleness and incompetence destructive to true religion? In what way do ugliness, filthiness, the low and inartistic tear down true religion? RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 11 HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN. "Go to the ant, thou sluggard, consider her ways and be wise, which, having no guide, overseer or rules, provideth her meat in summer, and gathereth her food in harvest." Proverbs 6:6 7, 8. Most women, and especially the Latter-day Saints women, have developed wonderfully the instinct of providing against a day of need and want. In the early periods of the Church the teachings of the leaders, on this point, was most emphatic and necessary, for being isolated from the other parts of the world, with no means of rapid transportation, people were forced to raise practically everything they consumed, hence they learned the great and valuable lesson of planting, caring for, harvesting and providing for the next season's wants and necessities. There was never a more opportune time than the present to continue the practice of thrift and industry so wonderfully instituted by our pioneer fathers and mothers. Fall Planting: Do not neglect the golden opportunity now of putting your next year's garden in proper condition. Especially have it well drained and fertilized for bulbs. Rhubarb and asparagus beds should be given proper attention by loosening up the soil around the roots, and giving a good mulching. Great care should be taken in selecting seeds for next season's planting. Only those well matured and from choice plants should be chosen, then dry and sack or place in bottles or tin cans, mark and store them away in a cool, dry place where they will not freeze. Children can be taught to do this work and assist the parents. They will be more anxious next spring to help in the planting if they are taught the value of caring for the supply of seeds this fall. For lack of space in our last issue, pickle receipts and table of syrups was omitted. One pint of sugar to one gill of water makes a syrup of 40 degrees density. One pint of sugar to one-half pint of water makes a syrup of 32 degrees density. One pint of sugar to one pint of water makes a syrup of 24 degrees density. One pint of sugar to one and one-half pints of water makes a syrup of 17 degrees density. One pint of sugar to two pints of water makes a syrup of 14 degrees density. 12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. For preserving cherries, strawberries, etc., a syrup of 40 degrees density is used. For preserving currants, peaches, plums, quinces, etc., a syrup of 24 degrees to 32 degrees density is used. For canning blackberries, blueberries, cherries, peaches, pears, plums and raspberries, a syrup of 14 degrees to 17 degrees density is used. Brine. Ordinary brine is made by dissolving one-half quart of salt in twenty-five quarts of water. By dissolving one quart of salt in twelve and one-half gallons of water the percentage of salt in the brine is 1 per cent in one pound, 2 per cent in two pounds, etc. Allowing one-half-pint of water to each quart of fruit. "We are indebted to the Utah Agricultural College for the above table. In pickle-making use but the best brand of vinegar. Cider vinegar is considered less liable to have mould accumulate than malt vinegar. Pickles should be kept in a dark, cool, dry place and examined often for the first few weeks. If soft white spots appear, drain off the vinegar, add one-half cup sugar to each gallon, scald, and pour over pickles again bits of horse; radish and cloves assist in preserving the life of vinegar. Select fresh vegetables or fruits for pickling, using only porcelain kettles, never metal. "When giving pickles their first scalding, add to % gallon vinegar pulverized alum size of nutmeg; it will make them crisp. Do not add too much alum, as it is injurious. A medium spicing for a quart of pickles is a teaspoon of pepper corns (whole black pepper) same of allspice, a tablespoon of broken cinnamon, 1/2 teaspoon of cloves, mustard seed or horseradish, 1 piece of ginger root an inch long ginger is the most wholesome of the spices. Pickles made at home are more desirable than those purchased on the markets, as the latter are usually colored a beautiful green with sulphate of copper, or made in brass kettles, producing same results in an indirect way, and both are deadly poison. Vinegar should be brought to a boiling point only, as too much heat destroys its strength. Nasturtium pods make excellent flavor for mixed pickles. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 13 Oiled Pickles: 50 cucumbers (dill pickle size). 2 tablespoons celery seed. % pint olive oil. % pint % salt, lb. brown sugar. 2 tablespoons Utah black mustard. 2 tablespoons white mustard. 1 gallon vinegar. 8 good sized onions. Peel, slice cucumbers and onions, put them in layers with salt over night, drain in cloth bag until dry, place in stone jar with spices and sugar, pour oil over top, then cover with vinegar. They are excellent and easy to make. J. A. H. Green Tomato Pickles: 8 lbs. green tomatoes. 1 qt. vinegar. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 4 lbs. brown sugar. 1 teaspoon mace. % teaspoon cloves. Chop tomatoes fine, add sugar and boil one hour, then add the other ingredients and boil about 15 minutes. Try this one, you will not be without it. J. A. H. Spiced Pickled Grapes: Fill jar with alternate layers of sugar and bunches of nice, fresh grapes (either white or black), put in a few whole spices, fill 1-3 full of good, cold vinegar, cover tightly. J. A. H. Syrup does not add anything to the keeping qualities of canned fruits and is not necessary. Sterilization, good jars, good rubbers, lids and cleanliness are the essentials to be relied on. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. We wish to call the attention of the Relief Society officers and members, to the fact that the time is now here to begin active work in the interests of the Relief Society Magazine. It will be remembered that it was decided in the officers meeting at the last April conference that we would publish a monthly magazine devoted to Relief Society work. It is earnestly requested that the Stake Presidents take up 14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. this matter at once and canvas their Stakes to secure paid subscriptions by the October Conference. This is necessary in order to have funds with which to begin work on the publication at once. Every effort will be made to meet the demands of the organization, in making the magazine a medium of instruction, along Relief Society lines, as well as educational and interesting. The price of the magazine will be one dollar in advance per annum, and it will be published monthly. It will require twelve thousand paid subscriptions to make the magazine self-supporting, and we expect each Stake to subscribe for as many as they have had free Bulletins during the present year. ANNOUNCEMENT. Three classes in Genealogy will be held during the Relief Society Conference in the Bishop's Building, Friday, Oct. 2nd, at 2 p. m., and at 5:30 p. m., and on Saturday. Oct. 3rd, at 5:30 p. m. This allows us to have our Relief Society Conference and our class work in the two days, Friday and Saturday, which will enable all to attend both of these important gatherings. Special delegates are not required, although it would be desirable to send those who attended the spring convention where practicable. These classes are held in response to a wide-spread appeal for more help in this work. NEW REPORT BLANK. The committee appointed to prepare a new report blank are at work and will be able to report at the October Conference. WHERE ANNUAL DUES SHALL BE PAID. Please do not send money orders or financial affairs of any nature to the President, Secretary or Corresponding Secretary of the organization. All money for yearly dues or for general Relief Society purposes of any nature should be sent to Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Room 28 Bishop's Building. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 15 RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE SCHOOL The Presidency and General Board of the Relief Society announce that the next class in the Relief Society Nurse School will commence Monday, September 21, 1914, and continue eight months, in Salt Lake City. Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will be the instructor. It is requested that the Stake Presidents will at once consult with their Ward Presidents for the purpose of selecting intelligent and energetic women of suitable age and of good moral character to take this course in nursing. We sincerely trust that members of the Relief Society realize the value and necessity of this Course of Nursing, as it is a fact that 95 per cent of the inhabitants of our country cannot afford to pay the price of a graduate, hospital nurse, and yet our sick of the masses should receive trained and skilful nursing. We can also recommend this course in nursing as a much needed part of every young woman's education.' The tuition for the course will be $20.00, and it is expected that the Relief Society organization in each ward will pay the tuition fee for their representatives. However, any student who wishes to pay the tuition herself may do so, if she is willing to accept and sign the Relief Society Nurse Contract, as published in the July Bulletin, page 14. For full particulars write Clarissa S. Williams. 37 North West Temple, or Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, 79 C street. Salt Lake THOMAS HULL ELIJAH A. LARKIN GEO. W. LARKIN ALMA J. LARKIN LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO. EMBALMERS AND FUNERAL DIRECTORS. CHAPEL & PARLORS 255 SO. 2nd EAST ST. Phone Wasatch 5132 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 16 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. Relief Societies' Headquarters For Approved Garments and Ladies' Utah Made Dress Goods. Postage Prepaid and Samples Sent on Request. CUTLER'S, 36 Main Street SCRACE'S BAKERY and CAFE Fresh Bread, Cakes and Pastry Daily Headquarters for Relief Society Visitors. A GOOD PLACE TO EAT. E. L. SAUNDERS, Prop. Phone Wasatch 1230. 24 So. MAIN STREET THE UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK SALT LAKE CITY Bank It is the purpose of the Bank at all UTAH times to render helpful service, and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and Pleasant. Utah State National Bank Your Account is Cordially Invited JOS. F. SMITH, Pres. ICE CREAM SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST" Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc. TWO STORES 55 Main St. 260 State St. Prompt Delivery Phones: Wasatch 32233224 JENSEN'S BUTTERS ONE QUALITY-TWO PACKAGES "Four-in-One" "Blanchard" FOUR CUBES STANDARD PRINT What a delightful flavor these butters possess! We've off times been asked how we secure it. The secret lies mostly in the cream It's gathered from mile high pastures it's selected --the choicest produced. In making Jensen's Butters, the cream's full flavor is retained. Give Jensen's Butters a trial. W. N. Williams, Supt. Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y & Treas R. N. Wilson. Asst. Supt Guaranteed Furniture at Lowest Prices Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Go-Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT Co-op. Furniture Co. Next Door South of Z. C. M. I. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Phones Wasatch 3455 and Wasatch 207 Salt Lake City Utah A Grafonoia for the Ward $25 Upward $10 Cash $5 a Mo. Play over in your Ward House records of the singing of the famous TABERNACLE CHOIR Also any records you want for any occasion dance popular sacred, etc. Older than the State of Utah Write for Catalogue and FREE calendar. SEE McCONAHAY For Diamonds 64 MAIN ST. The Jeweler===Salt Lake $22 and up We are prepared to supply you with all books recommended for RELIEF SOCIETY CLASSES ALSO ALL RELIEF SOCIETY BLANKS, BLANK BOOKS and RECORDS DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE LEADING BOOK CONCERN No. 6 MAIN STREET ASK YOUR DEALER FOR Z. C. M. I. Factory Shoes A few of our most serviceable lines Western Scout, Utah, Summit, Wyoming. "MOUNTAIN" or "THE LEADER" Overalls are honestly made. They don't rip. Star Printing Company 35 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 1370 Salt Lake City, Utah Marion Banks FINE Charlton's Millinery CLOAK & SUIT CO. Up-to-Date Styles AT REASONABLE PRICES for Ladies and GOODWIN CORSETS Misses. This ad. will redeem 10 per cent on purchase at regular price Moved to 24½ South Main Street WHILE LABORING FOR THE POOR AND AIDING THE WIDOW IN WANT, DON'T NEGLECT YOURSELF AND FAMILY Have they the proper protection in case of sickness or death of your breadwinner or will you be compelled to look for charity? Has he sufficient life insurance to assure you this protection? JOHN C. CUTLER LORENZO N. STOHL 1st. Vice President. 2nd. Vice Pres. & Mgt. INSURANCE OVER IN FORCE $ 1 2,000,000.00 JOSEPH F. SMITH President. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home office, Vermont Building Salt Lake City, Utah C. W. NIBLEY RICHARD W. YOUNG Member Ex. Com. Counsel