Relief Society Bulletin Volume 1 July, 1914. Number 7 Issued by the Officers and Directors of the GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 1914 HUMAN SERVICE has come to be a consideration of political parties, or social organizations, and of educational institutions. THE RELIEF SOCIETY has been an instrument of human service for more than half a century. It ministers to the immediate material wants of the community. It has been pronounced by many students an institution for community charity. THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE at Logan aims in a very definite way to make each member of society a more capable producer, a better farmer, housewife, tradesman, agricultural engineer, or business man and thus aims to eliminate want. Its field of work therefore, properly co-operates with the work of relief societies in serving the men and women of the State. While its courses are distinctly practical, it deals in a broad and fundamental way with the basic industries of the State. Liberal instruction is given in the natural and physical sciences, in mathematics, history, English, economics, literature and languages. The College has been slowly built into an embodiment of the State's idealism. Willes-Horne Drug Company News Building, Salt Lake City. Our Drug Store Is Complete TREATMENT PERFECT. PRICES RIGHT. WE SOLICIT YOUR PATRONAGE. Prompt Attention to Mail Orders. Lambourne Floral Dept. EVERYTHING FLORAL. DECORATIONS. FUNERAL WORK. Etc., Etc. THE L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES has an average enrollment of about 100 Nurses in training. The hospital has capacity of 250 beds. The training school is under the direction and supervision of highly trained graduate nurses from schools of national reputation. It gives a three years course in training in nursing in all its branches. For further particulars address the Superintendent of Nurses Dr. W.H. GROVES LATTER-DAY SAINTS HOSPITAL, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

INDEX TO LESSON STATEMENTS. PAGE 
Loyalty 1 
Editorial Success 3 
Health and Hygiene Lesson II 5 Lesson III 8 
Lesson IV 11 
Notes for Officers 11 

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist. 
1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. 
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City. 
3. WHITE SEWING MACHINE CO., 29 W. First South St. Phone Was. 5234, Salt Lake City. 
4. L.C. SMITH & BROS., Typewriter, 379, So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., UNDERTAKERS, 251-259 E. First South St., Salt Lake City. 
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City. 
7. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City. 
8. LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO., 255 South 2nd East St., Salt Lake City. 
9. L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES, Salt Lake City. 
10. CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City. 
11. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. 
12. HOTEL UTAH, Salt Lake City. 
13. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. 
14. CUTLER BROS. CO., 36 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
15. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. 
16. MORRISON BAKING CO., 158 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
17. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City. 
18. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main St., Salt Lake City. 
19. PORTER-WALTON CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
20. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City. 
21. JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake. 
22. MARION BANKS, Millinery, and Charlton's Suit & Cloak Co., 321 So. Main, Salt Lake. 
23. THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH, Salt Lake City, Utah. Ball Bearings Give Greater Speed and Stability Office L. C. Smith & Bros. Typewriter (Ball Bearing, Long Wearing) Because of ball bearing typebars, the keys respond as readily as perfect piano keys. The capital shift works with equal ease no lifting of a heavy carriage but simply shifting the light typebar segment, thus insuring absolute accuracy. Another advantage this machine is complete in itself for all kinds of work: tabulating, billing, large envelopes, cards or paper as narrow as a postage stamp. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE To L. C. SMITH & BROS. TYPEWRITER CO. 379 SO. MAIN STREET Salt Lake City, Utah Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 S. M. TAYLOR & CO. UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 years in one location 251=253=255=257 East First South St. Salt Lake City, Utah MODERN METHODS COMPLETE EQUIPMENT EFFICIENT SERVICE SPECIAL NOTICE SONS & DAUGHTERS of the UTAH PIONEERS -THE L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE was established by your FATHERS for YOU. OPEN ALL THE YEAR. Day and Evening Sessions. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN ORGAN OF THE WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Vol. 1. July, 1914. No. 7 Editor Mrs. Susa Young Gates Business Manager Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman Advisory Committee Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams Mrs. Julia L. Smith Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley Publishers and Proprietors General Board of the Relief Society Office Room 28 Bishop's Building. Salt Lake City One Dollar a Year Ten Cents a Copy Entered as second-class matter on February 18, 1914, at the Post Office at Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

LOYALTY. Perhaps the title "Fidelity," might be as appropriate as the one I have chosen, for the two subjects are both significant of the ideas I have in mind, in writing this article. There are many beautiful instances of loyalty recorded of ancient times, as well as in the present day. One of the most notable of the former is the exquisite Bible story of Ruth and Naomi, a story which has rung down the ages, without losing a particle of its charm. So great was the fidelity of Ruth, to her mother-in-law, that though entreated to leave her and return to her own people, she could not be persuaded and replied in those memorable words: "Intreat me not to leave thee, or to return from following after thee for whither thou goest, I will go and where thou lodgest, I will lodge thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God. Where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried the Lord do so to me, and more also, if ought but death part thee and me." Ancient history gives us another remarkable instance of this attitude in the story of Damon and Pythias, which has been quoted the world over, as illustrating the strength of the loyalty and affection that united these two historic figures, in such undying friendship as to be an example to all succeeding generations. 2 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. A not less beautiful illustration is furnished in this our own day and time in the loyalty and love binding together the hearts and lives of our revered martyr leaders, Joseph and Hyrum Smith, who even in death were not separated. Those of us who have lived long and passed through varied experiences, are well aware of what it means to have false friends; and none are better able to appreciate to the fullest extent, true and unswerving loyalty, especially among or between those who have interests in common and to whom every trust should be sacred, even without the formality of covenant or promise there is a loyalty in friendship, which is better understood than expressed, and this is the kind that calls forth the highest admiration, especially when observed by those not bound together by common interests. It is one of the most excellent qualities in human nature, and yet people, in general, possess it only in small degree. Loyalty does not always imply loftiness of sentiment or superior education. It seems to be exemplified often in uncultured men and women, who have not even had the advantages of common education. We recall personally many such instances for example, in our own history, the case of Porter Rockwell, whose loyalty to the Prophet Joseph Smith, was almost beyond belief. Realizing that there is much more in the term loyalty than the mere dictionary definition, that it has a meaning quite impossible to express in words, let us, as women, cultivate its true spirit towards one another and toward our own organization, the Relief Society. Let us be loyal to all its interests and hold our membership in its ranks sacred. Let us be loyal to the instructions given by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the beginning, and never depart from his words of counsel. Let us keep ever in mind the Thirteenth Chapter of 1st Corinthians, which was read in one of the first meetings of the Society concerning the value of charity and the other principles laid down at that time progress and advancement in all good works. This will be true loyalty to the teachings of the Prophet, who turned the key of knowledge for all women and made it possible for them to stand upon a higher plane. Let us, of all women in the world, thus prove our loyalty to the Society which the Prophet organized, thus giving assurance of our fidelity to the church, of which we are members, and to the free country, of which we are citizens. EMMELINE B WELLS. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. EDITORIAL. SUCCESS. The measure of success or failure is as varied as the estimates of the persons who judge and decide. What is success for one would be an abject failure in the eyes of another. The successful man of business, the successful professional, the successful writer, or artist, is looked upon by his fellows as a shining example of what men call success, while the recipient of their envious compliments may look upon himself, or herself, as a dismal failure, or they may not. God does not measure us in human scales. How fortunate that this is so, for the successful of this world will rarely be the heroes of the next. What is success? Sisters, what do you look upon as successful achievements in life? If I could hear your answers, I should know what manner of women you are. Do you admire, and set up as ideals, the women in our community who occupy high offices in the Relief Society, or other organizations? Are school teachers, to you, the embodiment of success? Great singers, or musicians, are these your ideals of successful girls and women? Writers, poets, painters wherein does success lie according to your judgment? These are not idle questions I am asking. On the contrary, they are weighed down with character-building thoughts. Our ideals as to success are subject to change with maturity and a better comprehension of life's realities. Who are the successful husbands? And who are the successful wives? Who are the successful mothers, and who are the successful daughters? Are the successful husbands the men who have made money, who have built fine homes for their wives, who have bought automobiles, and who have taken their wives upon foreign trips? It may be so. but it rarely is. As a rule the successful business man has no time for his family. He has no time or sympathy to give to his wife or his children. What home training there may be given to the children comes entirely from the mother, or from hired help. In my way of thinking the successful husband and father is a man of moderate means a man who has kept his nose above the waves of debt, and who has led his family on the upward plane of spiritual rather than of material things. We sometimes hear it said in this Church that only the rich men are put into office. If this were true, which it is not, it would still mean that these same rich men were reared in homes of comparative poverty. 4 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. where both parents had time to father and mother their children. The children of rich men, no matter what their place or position, rarely have had any fathering given them. "Who are the successful wives? They are not necessarily the women who have kept their houses scrupulously clean and who are the best breadmakers in the neighborhood, although both of these achievements make for home righteousness. The successful wives are not the women who give all their time and strength and thought to their houses, or even to their children. The successful wives are the women who learn to balance their lives so that they can give a portion of themselves, unreservedly and with loving generosity, in personal ministrations to their husbands, no matter how exacting the home cares, nor how taxing the responsibilities of the children may be. The wife, to be successful, must preserve sufficient vitality to give generously of love, sympathy, comradeship and service to her husband, whenever he is near her. Who are the successful mothers? Not the women who gratify every wish and desire of their children, and who neglect every other duty and responsibility in life, except that of waiting upon children and giving way to all of their selfish exactions. The successful mothers are the women who have cultivated their intelligence from day to day, so that it has kept pace with the development of their own children. Mind that I say "intelligence," and not intellectuality. For some very intelligent people are not very intellectual, and vice versa. The successful mother has been and is the companion of her children, no matter where their own paths in life may lie. She may or may not be a successful wife, that all depends. Some women are naturally good wives, and some are naturally good mothers a few women are both. But it is a mistaken idea that all the women who are married and who bear children are either successful as wives or as mothers. What a happy thought it is, however, that to the husbands and children of the world, all wives and all mothers are ideal. The Lord did a very gracious thing for mothers when he thus converted the men of the world and helped them to forget the shortcomings of their wives and their mothers. Who are the successful daughters? Not those who think of mother only when they want a favor. Not the daughter who demands constant service from her mother, boundless sympathy and unlimited time, but who has no thought or time to return that mother's priceless service. The successful daughter may be bright or dull, rich or poor if she be sympathetic and tenderly unselfish to her mother, she is truly successful. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 5 This is the accepted day and time when you and I, mothers and grandmothers, can weigh ourselves in the standards of our own ideals, and discover whether we are a success, or a failure, whatever way that decision may turn, this is the day and one when you and I can climb one step further upward on the road to success. July HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson II. (Forty Minutes.) NOTE According to the plan outlined in the Relief Society Guide the work for July and August will consist of lessons on Health and Hygiene. In September the regular work in Genealogy, Home Ethics, Gardening, Literature, Art and Architecture will be resumed. I Care of the Body. Next to a sound mind, a sound body is one of our most valuable possessions. Every care should be taken to maintain or to create health. It is a sin to injure the health through carelessness, vanity, love of pleasure, overwork, or immoderate eating. Fresh air, wholesome food, and proper exercise are essentials of health. The underlying principle in maintaining health consists in the elimination from the body of effete material. This waste material is continually being produced by oxidation and breaking down of the various tissues. The use of water in the economy of the system is of the utmost importance. It is the one universal solvent and the medium by which foods are rendered soluble by digestion and conveyed to the tissues to be assimilated. It distributes the heat of the body and acts as an agent in cleansing, both externally and internally. The skin, kidneys, and bowels eliminate waste from the system and should be kept constantly active. The skin should be kept in health by proper bathing; the kidneys, by drinking freely of pure water; and the bowels, by the use of foods which maintain or promote activity. Fruits or fruit juices are very helpful to most people. Buttermilk is tonic and wholesome in its effects. The appetite, or special craving for foods, is often nature's best indication as to what the body requires. Milk and milk foods are best for children. 6 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. Sudden changes of temperature should be guarded against, whether in the ball room or the kitchen, the tennis court, or the hay-field. Death has been caused by drinking very cold water while the body was overheated from exercise. Different kinds of clothing for the different kinds of weather should be kept at hand. Diet according to the season. Human beings should acquire such habits of caring for the health that all the little attentions will be given almost unconsciously; thus avoiding worry and fret. II. The Bath. Reference has been made to the internal cleansing of the body by the elimination of waste products. The external care of our earthly tabernacle must not be overlooked. Bathing should be given frequent attention. It is important not only as to our health but from an ethical standpoint. The Bath is most essential. Have you ever experienced the discomfort of sitting in public assemblies near some one who did not bathe or change underwear with sufficient frequency? The Bath should be taken more with the idea of keeping clean than with the idea of getting clean. The temperature of the bath should be according to the habit, desire, or need of the individual. There is also much in the purpose for which it is taken. Warm baths are more for cleansing, while cold baths are for purposes of stimulation. A little baking soda or ammonia added to the warm bath softens the water and makes it more cleansing. Care should be taken that children or old people do not suffer from chilliness after bathing. In such a case rubbing the skin or taking exercise should follow, to restore circulation. A warm soda bath followed by good and gentle rubbing of body with olive oil is excellent treatment for fevered children. Every home that can afford it should have a bathroom. When there is no better way an end of a room with comfortable temperature may be screened off for the occasion and a wash tub may be used. If there is no laundry tub then take a swim in the wash basin. The Foot Bath. A foot bath at least should be taken every day; not only for the sake of health and cleanliness, but to promote the comfort of the feet and discourage the growth of corns. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 7 Towel, Soap, Brush and Comb. It is well for each member of the family to have his individual towel, soap, brush and comb. Strict sanitation requires it. The towels may be marked with needle work or indelible ink. When circumstances make needful a common use of towels, be sure, in case of illness, to supply the patient with individual articles. Diseases, and particularly skin troubles, are very readily communicated by general use of towels. Conscience and common sense are our best guides in daily life. Suggestions III Further knowledge may be obtained from local physicians or available text-books on the subjects. Also, members learn much from each other in discussing the subjects. Topics might be divided and given by several members. Time should be reserved for general discussion after the topics have been given. IV Questions. How should health be valued? Name some of the essentials of health? What is the underlying principle in maintaining health? What can you say of the use of water? Methods of elimination of waste products. Give some methods that are helpful. Discuss bathing from standpoint given, and from your own viewpoint. RECIPES FOR BENEFICIAL DRINKS. Apple Water. Take apple parings and cores (or thin sliced whole apples if preferred) and cover with boiling water. Let stand eight or ten hours. Drink several times a day. (Given by Madam Davenport in her "Health and Beauty" talks.) Unfermented Grape-Juice. Twenty pounds of Concord grapes. Boil and put through jelly bag as for jelly. Then take the juice and add three pounds of sugar and boil three minutes, and bottle hot, the same as fruit. (Through the courtesy of Dr. Romania B. Penrose.) 8 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. July HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson III. (Forty Minutes.) Public Health. Public health may best be maintained through the interest and efforts of individuals in accordance with principles of Hygiene. Every member of a community should have at heart the welfare of all the others. The conduct of each day should be prompted by conscience and active interest. When a country is newly settled there is less likely to be sickness of certain kinds; but as the communities get older, and the soil becomes more impregnated with waste matter, it becomes more and more necessary to guard the sanitary conditions and use precautions against sickness. Families as well as individuals should use the greatest precautions against the spread of disease. Very valuable lives have been sacrificed just for want of care. Every community, no matter how young, or small, should have a health committee to look after a pure water supply, drainage and sanitary conditions generally. Quarantine regulations should be carefully carried out. The wonderful preservation of health among the Jewish people is attributed to the observance of the wise Mosaic laws which gave such ample advice on hygiene, sanitation, and the isolation of people who were sick. When nations about them were stricken with epidemics of disease, the law-abiding Jews seemed immune. The topic giver may name some of these Mosaic laws as obtained from the Bible. Consider the Word of Wisdom and the promises made therein. To promote the welfare of the community, the individuals must cultivate habits of cleanliness and niceness. Special habits, such as use of tobacco, narcotics, food or drink that is injurious, must be overcome. All evil passions must be placed and kept under control. "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure." IIA Few Dont's. (They will help to prevent the spread of disease.) Don't sneeze in public. If you must sneeze, use your handkerchief. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 9 Don't cough in public. It is largely a matter of habit. If you must cough, screen it with handkerchief or hand. Don't spit. Above all things, don't spit on sidewalk or in public places. Don't go from any case of contagious disease without having body, and particularly hair and clothing, thoroughly disinfected. Ill Breathing. In the first place, have the best air obtainable. We can live for a time without food or without drink, but we cannot live long without air. We should always sit or stand in an upright position and take deep breaths. Lips Closed. The lips should be kept closed for breathing purposes and the air inhaled through the nose. When children breathe habitually with open mouths, their parents should consult a physician. Drinking Cups. It is a well-known fact that people should have their individual drinking vessels. Some states have laws that do not permit of public drinking cups. On the Pullman cars glasses are not provided unless asked for. It is a good thing when wearied from indoor routine or sitting long, to step outside and with lips closed, head erect, shoulders back and elbows down, to inhale the fresh air slowly, and exhale slowly. Some people raise themselves on the balls of the feet while inhaling and lower themselves while exhaling. Try some of these simple exercises and see how restful and renewing they are. If chilled while out in cold weather, some warmth and comfort may be obtained by taking a few specially long, deep breaths. When leaving a warm room to go out into the cold air, be sure to close the lips before the first intake into the lungs of the changed atmosphere. People whose business requires them to remain much indoors will derive benefit from observing these simple directions. Sleeping porches or outside beds, to supply plentiful fresh air while sleeping, are coming to be considered necessities by many people. Also, there are those who make a practice of eating or living outdoors as much as circumstances will allow. The people whose business requires them to be outdoors have many advantages over the indoor workers, as well as some disadvantages. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. IV Fresh Air in the Home. As people grow in civilization they seem to consider more the need of fresh air in the homes and public buildings. All modern school buildings have special thought and care as to ventilation. Places of public worship should also be well ventilated. If doors and windows were thrown wide open after each service it would be a good practice. No matter how cold the weather, where people sleep in houses, each bedroom slept in should have the windows open every night. It is also a good plan to open wide the doors, letting a full draught of air sweep through the house for a short time each morning. There should be a constant inflow of fresh air into the homes, even in cold weather. Windows lowered slightly from the top give fresh air without exposing the inmates of the home to danger. Or the lower sash may be raised slightly and the space between sash and window filled with a strip of wood or with other material. Fresh air will enter between the upper and lower sashes. A fire on the hearth or in the grate, besides being so cheerful and pleasant, produces a change of atmosphere that is considered very beneficial. VReview Questions. How may public health best be maintained? What about quarantine regulations? To what is attributed the great health of the Jews as a people? Mention some of the Mosaic laws. What bearing has the Word of Wisdom on health? Speak of some of the actions which menace the health of the public. What provision is made in your town for individual drinking cups? What about the air we breathe? What about lips when breathing? Name some breathing exercises. What can you say of outdoor living for health? What about fresh air in the homes and public places? RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. . 11 July HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson IV. Use the pamphlet accompanying the "Bulletin" as your text. NOTE. Reading matter on the subject of the ear may be forthcoming later. I Review Questions. What is the most important of the special senses? Name some of the things which depend upon good eyesight. Name some results of eye-strain. Give some causes of eye-strain. When should the care of the eye begin. How may the eyes of infants and children be cared for? Give one of the most frequent causes of blindness and the per cent of cases due to that cause. Cite the instance given in the pamphlet. Tell some ways of preventing blindness or defective sight in children. What about school work required at home? Can you make any suggestions for improvements in school work? Tell some consequences of reading too long at a time and how to correct it. What can you say of the lighting of school rooms? The quantity and the direction of light? Tell about the effect of artificial light. Tell about the effect in print. What about the effect of motion pictures on the sight? Speak on the diseases mentioned in the text. Tell What should be done in case of the accident mentioned. NOTES FOR OFFICERS. It is desired that all presidents and other officers in the Relief Society, in writing to this office, use their own names written in full. Many are in the habit of using their initials, or their husband's names or initials. The full names of the sisters are preferred. : 12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. Within the last year, a few new stakes have been organized and several old stakes have been reorganized with new officers. It is extremely important that all such changes be reported, as soon as they occur, to the President or General Secretary. The Board is continually sending matter to the various organizations, and when the records do not show the correct names and addresses of officers, serious delays and inconveniences result. The members of the General Board are gratified indeed with the excellent showing that has been made by the Stake officers in collecting the 25c annual dues. In reply to the statement that has come from a few stakes, however, to the effect that they have been unable to collect the dues from some of the members, and therefore have asked if it is necessary for each stake organization to pay 25c for each enrolled member, attention is called to the decision that was reached at a special meeting of the officers held April 5, 1913. After a long and careful consideration of the financial condition of the Society, the following action was taken ''It was moved and carried unanimously that the 10c membership fee in the Relief Society be increased to 25c for each enrolled member." Those in attendance at this meeting were the members of the General Board and representatives from practically every stake of Zion. This action was made necessary because the expenses of this great and growing organization have increased very materially in the last few years. One important item of increased expense is the maintenance of the Relief Society Headquarters, which is a source of pride to everybody connected with the organization. Another item is the traveling expense which has been increased on account of the fact that we are unable to get rates that were formerly allowed us. Other individual expenses are continually made necessary in order to sustain with proper dignity the enviable position we hold as the greatest woman's organization in the world. SPECIAL NOTICE. Members of the Relief Society are entitled to the Hand Book on Art and Architecture (Devotees and their Shrines) at the net price of $1.00, with the addition of 10c postage. All orders at the above price must be received at this office by Aug. 1st, as after that date the contract will expire and the book will be sold for $1.25. at the Deseret News Book Store. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 13 NOTICE. We are sending to our sisters with this month's Bulletin an excellent paper on the "Safe Guarding of the Child's Eye Sight," by Dr. L. W. Snow, who addressed the Relief Society conference on this important subject at the October conference. Salt Lake City, June 11, 1914. The party of sisters who represented our organization at the International Council at Rome, have arrived home and report conditions pointing to a most successful future for council activities. Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams, in company with her husband (Senator Williams), is still visiting abroad, will see all Europe before return home. The Utah division of Farm Women's Movement is very active, sending out literature and coupons to our societies. Its purpose is to assist in the erection of a model farmhouse, to be maintained at the San Francisco Exposition in 1915, where all the latest improved methods of farm household articles and their uses will be demonstrated. We are enclosing also bulletins for our Public Health Committee. We urge our sisters to assist in giving publicity to these bulletins, and to do all in their power toward the extermination of the death dealing fly. The fly trap should be made and used. The Presidency and General Board of the Relief Society announce that the next class in the Relief Society Nurse School will commence Monday. September 21, 1914, and continue eight months, in Salt Lake City. Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will be the instructor. It is requested that the Stake Presidents will at once consult with their Ward Presidents for the purpose of selecting: 14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. Intelligent and energetic women of suitable age and of good moral character to take this course in nursing. We sincerely trust that members of the Relief Society realize the value and necessity of this Course of Nursing, as it is a fact that 95 per cent of the inhabitants of our country cannot afford to pay the price of a graduate, hospital nurse, and yet our sick of the masses should receive trained and skilful nursing. We can also recommend this course in nursing as a much needed part of every young woman's education. The tuition for the course will be $20.00, and it is expected that the Relief Society organization in each ward will pay the tuition free for their representatives. However, any student who wishes to pay the tuition herself may do so, if she is willing to accept and sign the Relief Society Nurse Contract, a copy of which follows Contract. In consideration of obtaining instruction free in the Relief Society Nurse School, I promise to answer all calls made upon me by the Superintendent of Relief Society Nurses where I live, to give thirty days' charity nursing, and also nurse for whatever remuneration may be designated by said Superintendent for the term of one year following graduation. Students who do not wish to sign the aforesaid Relief Society contract may attend the school by paying the usual fee of $50.00. Cost of books $5.00. A course in cooking having special reference to preparing and serving food for the sick and convalescent will be provided for the class commencing after the Christmas holidays. The students to meet the cost, which, however, will be but nominal not to exceed $3.00. Homes where students may assist with the housework for their board and room can always be furnished in good families. Dr. Roberts will also teach a class in Obstetrics and as skilful midwives are needed in every town we recommend this class. For full particulars write to CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, 37 North West Temple Street, Or DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS, 79 C Street, Salt Lake City. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 15 THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH AT YOUR SERVICE. The College of Arts and Sciences Preparation to make a life as well as a living. Courses in general science, liberal arts, commerce, and preparation for business. The State School of Mines Preparation for all branches of engineering. A school In the west where a great country is in the making; where the building of highways, railroads, power plants, canals, and commercial and industrial structures of all kinds must push forward rapidly to keep pace with an expanding population; a school in the heart of one of the biggest mining regions of America, where are the greatest copper mines of the world, and the most extensive smelting plants. The State School of Education Preparation for Teaching in common schools and high schools. A school that has drawn favorable attention from educators of high standing in our country, for its sensitive and sensible attitude in relation to modern educational theory The School of Medicine Offering a combined course in Arts and Medicine (four years) The School of Law Offering full preparation for the practice of law. A young department with high standards, thorough methods, and some novel advantages. For full particulars, address University of Utah, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Marion Banks FINE Charlton's Millinery CLOAK & SUIT CO. The right place for AT REASONABLE PRICES practical styles in GOODWIN CORSETS Women's Wear This ad. will redeem 10 percent on purchase at regular price 321 SO. MAIN STREET, Opp. Walkers 16 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. MONEY FOR BULLETINS AND LESSON BOOKS. All orders for Bulletins or Lesson Books, all money to be expended in this direction should be sent to the Relief Society Bulletin, Room 28 Bishop's Building. THOMAS HULL ELIJAH A. LARKIN GEO. W. LARKIN ALMA J. LARKIN LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO. EMBALMERS AND FUNERAL DIRECTORS. CHAPEL & PARLORS 255 SO. 2nd EAST ST. Phone Wasatch 5132 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH A Grafonola for the Ward $25 Upward $10 Cash $5 a Mo. Play over in your Ward House records of the singing of the famous TABERNACLE CHOIR Also any records you want for any occasion dance popular sacred, etc. Older than the State of Utah Write for Catalogue and FREE calendar. ICE CREAM SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST" Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc. TWO STORES 55 Main St. 260 State St. Prompt Delivery Phones: Wasatch 3223-3224 Jensen's Blanchard Butter (Single Brick) Jensens Butters possess a wondrous flavor a flavor that's irresistible. To secure it, only the choicest cream is used. Every ounce is selected by test. That which doesn't pass inspection is Four-in-One discarded. Jensen's Butters are practically the only butter in which such high-grade cream is used. Still no advance in price is asked. Buy Jensen's Butters. Enjoy their premier quality aid delightful flavor. Tell your neighbors to use them. Jensens Four-in-One Butter (Four Individual Bricks) JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake W. N. Williams, Supt. Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y & Treas R. N. Wilson. Asst. Supt Guaranteed Furniture at Lowest Prices Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable. Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Go-Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT Co-op. Furniture Co. Next Door South of Z. C. M. I. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Phones Wasatch 3455 and Wasatch 207 Salt Lake City Utah SEEDS AND PLANTS Fresh, pure acclimated seeds for lawn, flower and vegetable gardens. Bedding Plants, Choice Cut Flowers, fresh from our greenhouse. Make the "home beautiful." Our free guide book tells how. Ask for it. PORTER=WALTON CO. SEEDSMEN, NURSERYMEN & FLORISTS Cor. State and Broadway. Phone Ex. 717 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. Star Printing Company 35 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 1370 Salt Lake City, Utah ASK YOUR DEALER FOR Z. C. M. I. Western Scout Shoes The Ideal Out-door Shoe For Men, Youths, Boys, Cheap, serviceable. Used extensively by Carpenters, iron workers, boy scouts, etc. 'MOUNTAINEER" or "THE LEADER" Overalls are honestly made. They don't rip. CUTLER'S UTAH MADE GOODS Command Attention Buy At Home Approved Garments Bleached or Unbleached 75c Light Weight $1.00 Lisle Thread $1.00 Medium Weight $1.25 Heavy Weight POSTAGE PREPAID. Provo Dress Goods==Suitings Blankets. SAMPLES SENT ON REQUEST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH HOTEL UTAH 500 Rooms. Fireproof Opened June 8, 1911 "The very best of every, thing at sensible prices " Rates for room without bath $1.50 and $2.00. With bath $2.50 per day and upwards. Under the Management of GEORGE O. RELF SEE McCONAHAY For Diamonds 64 MAIN ST. The Jeweler===Salt Lake $22 and up BETTER THINGS TO EAT TWO PLACES CORNER MAIN & 1st SO. 158 SOUTH MAIN ST. CAF WHILE LABORING FOR THE POOR AND AIDING THE WIDOW IN WANT, DON'T NEGLECT YOURSELF AND FAMILY Have they the proper protection in case of sickness or death of your bread winner or will you be compelled to look for charity? Has he sufficient life insurance to assure you this protection? JOHN C. CUTLER LORENZO N. STOHL 1st. Vice President. 2nd. Vice Pres. & Mgr. INSURANCE OVER IN FORCE $12,000,000.00 JOSEPH F. SMITH President. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home office, Vermont Building Salt Lake City, Utah C. W. NIBLEY RICHARD W. YOUNG Member Ex. Com. Counsel