Relief Society Bulletin Volume I June, 1914. Number 6 Issued by the Officers and Directors of the GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 1914 HUMAN SERVICE has come to be a consideration of political parties, or social organizations, and of educational institutions. THE RELIEF SOCIETY has been an instrument of human service for more than half a century. It ministers to the immediate material wants of the community. It has been pronounced by many students an institution for community charity. THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE at Logan aims in a very definite way to make each member of society a more capable producer, a better farmer, housewife, tradesman, agricultural engineer, or business man and thus aims to eliminate want. Its field of work therefore, properly co-operates with the work of relief societies in serving the men and women of the State. While its courses are distinctly practical, it deals in a broad and fundamental way with the basic industries of the State. Liberal instruction is given in the natural and physical sciences, in mathematics, history, English, economics, literature and languages. The College has been slowly built into an embodiment of the State's idealism. Willes-Horne Drug Company News Building, Salt Lake City. Our Drug Store Is Complete TREATMENT PERFECT. PRICES RIGHT. WE SOLICIT YOUR PATRONAGE. Prompt Attention to Mail Orders, Lambourne Floral Dept. EVERYTHING FLORAL. DECORATIONS. FUNERAL WORK. Etc., Etc. THE L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES has an average enrollment of about 100 Nurses in training. The hospital has capacity of 250 beds. The training school is under the direction and supervision of highly trained graduate nurses from schools of national reputation. It gives a three years course in training in nursing in all its branches. For further particulars address the Superintendent of Nurses Dr. W. H. GROVES LATTER-DAY SAINTS HOSPITAL, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 

INDEX TO LESSON STATEMENTS. PAGE 
Editorial  Insurance 1 
Genealogy 5 
Home Ethics 7 
Home Gardening for Women 9 
Literature 12 
Art and Architecture 13 
Notes on the Relief Society Conference 14 

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist. 
1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. 
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City. 
3. WHITE SEWING MACHINE CO., 29 W. First South St. Phone Was. 5234, Salt Lake City. 
4. L.C. SMITH & BROS., Typewriter, 379, So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., UNDERTAKERS, 251-259 E. First South St., Salt Lake City. 
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City. 
7. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City. 
8. LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO., 255 South 2nd East St., Salt Lake City. 
9. L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES, Salt Lake City. 
10. CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City. 
11. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. 
12. HOTEL UTAH, Salt Lake City. 
13. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. 
14. CUTLER BROS. CO., 36 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
15. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. 
16. MORRISON BAKING CO., 158 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
17. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City. 
18. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main St., Salt Lake City. 
19. PORTER-WALTON CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
20. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City. 
21. JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake. 
22. MARION BANKS, Millinery, and Charlton's Suit & Cloak Co., 321 So. Main, Salt Lake. Ball Bearings Give Greater Speed and Stability to the L. C. Smith & Bros. Typewriter (Ball Bearing? Long Wearing) Because of ball bearing typebars, the keys respond as readily as perfect piano keys. The capital shift works with equal ease no lifting of a heavy carriage but simply shifting the light typebar segment, thus insuring absolute accuracy Another advantage this machine is complete in itself for all kinds of work: tabulating, billing, large envelopes, cards or paper as narrow as a postage stamp. . WRITE FOR CATALOGUE To L. C. SMITH & BROS. TYPEWRITER CO. 379 SO. MAIN STREET Salt Lake City, Utah Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 S. M. TAYLOR & CO. UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 years in one location 251=253=255=257 East First South St. Salt Lake City, Utah MODERN METHODS COMPLETE EQUIPMENT EFFICIENT SERVICE SPECIAL NOTICE SONS & DAUGHTERS of the UTAH PIONEERS -THE L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE was established by your FATHERS for YOU. OPEN ALL THE YEAR. Day and Evening Sessions. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN ORGAN OF THE WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

Vol. 1. June, 1914. No. 6 Editor Mrs. Susa Young Gates Business Manager Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman Advisory Committee Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams Mrs. Julina L. Smith Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley Publishers and Proprietors General Board of the Relief Society Office Room 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City One Dollar a Year Ten Cents a Copy Entered as second-class matter on February 18, 1914, at the Post Office at Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. EDITORIAL. INSURANCE.

The General Board of the Relief Society have been making somewhat of a study through a chosen Committee of the insurance conditions in this state looking to the establishment of an Insurance Benefit plan in the Relief Society. We gave in a former Bulletin the letter from this Board to the Presidency of the Church, and their favorable reply to our suggestion, but it must be remembered that it takes time and thought to establish anything so important and so complicated as insurance, for women who have had no experience in handling such business. Our investigations have brought to light several interesting features connected with the insurance companies operating in this state. Most, if not all, of the women's insurance companies of the United States have associated themselves with Lodges, or Hives, as they are termed. These Hives meet regularly in social functions and programmed entertainments. There are some secret grips and passwords connected with the initiation of the candidates into the Hives or Lodges. This is a striking feature, and when the president of one of the great organizations was asked why this secret sign and grip formula was used in her initiation ceremonies, she replied that such a feature was very attractive to the human mind. Secret signs, grips, passwords, and insignia were as old as the 2 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. race, and all people are influenced more or less by the secret charm attached to such phases of human beings associated together for any purpose whatsoever. She told the writer to observe how popular this feature was in school fraternities, among the young people of the United States, and this suggestion certainly came in the nature of a surprising shock, for personally I was not aware at that time that the custom of using passwords, grips, tokens, and signs was at all prevalent amongst any class of people except the Masons. However, the statement is quite true, and its methods of introducing a candidate into any of these insurance Hives or Lodges is practically universal. The social side of the Hive and Lodge work is also made attractive through well selected programs, through the careful cultivation of all the arts of courtesy and gentle manners, which in reality form the asset of all insurance agents. The women of this society may be considerably surprised to learn how many women belonging to our Church have aligned themselves with these Lodges and Hives. Some of them, when questioned, say that the reason for their joining is on account of the pleasant social features connected with the regular meetings held in any special Hive or Lodge. Others say frankly that they want the insurance benefit of the Hive or Lodge, and accept the other features simply to get the insurance. Now, be it understood most emphatically that we have no quarrel with any of these Lodges or Hives, for all of them, so far as we know, are composed of very estimable women, while their business affairs are conducted after the most approved and honorable methods, but we do object seriously to our women joining with any organizations outside of those which are approved by the authorities of the Church. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, we seek after these things. We are preparing now to offer all of the benefits and blessings both financially and socially to the members of this Society in our own ranks and strictly among ourselves. This is not the time nor the place to make any arguments in support of the foregoing statements. There will be time enough to discuss these principles in later issues of the Bulletin. Just now we are concerned only in presenting for your consideration some facts and reasons why you will be asked to accept the Insurance Benefit plan as a part of the Relief Society work. Before leaving the subject of the benefit insurance companies, operated by women in the United States, let us inquire a little into their financial requirements. The rule for RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 3 these companies is that the candidate pays two dollars for an initiation fee into the Lodge or Hive. After that she pays 35 cents a month dues to the Lodge or Hive. Please notice, sisters, that this is 35 cents a month, not 25 cents a year, as our sisters are now asked to contribute to the general expense fund of this great and rapidly growing Relief Society. This 35 cents a month is distributed between the local Lodge and the Supreme Hive, whose headquarters are in the eastern states. The two dollars initiation fee and the 35 cents monthly dues do not have any bearing financially on the insurance question of the candidate. The candidate must pay for her insurance, either monthly or quarterly, according to previous arrangements, outside of her Hive or Lodge dues. If she takes out $100, $200, $500 or $5,000 worth of insurance, she actually pays more in proportion than we are arranging to pay in the Relief Society for the same insurance, and this in addition to her lodge dues. Moreover, when any social affair is given at which refreshments are served in the local Hive (and, by the way, that is quite frequently), the members are expected to furnish the cakes and other articles of food used for refreshment. Again let us emphasize the fact that these statements are not made in any sense of criticism for the energetic women outside of this Church who are making such success of their insurance labors, but they form a basis of argument and permit us to present our facts before our members in comparison, and with some degree of clarity and precision. And now what are the benefits to be derived by the members of the Relief Society who desire to take out either a burial insurance, a mission insurance, for young children, or school insurance for such children, or indeed for women who desire straight life insurance? What are the benefits? In the first place, the almost unknown virtues of saving are taught and inculcated by this method of forced saving, and it surely does become irksome at times to pay dues in insurance matters, yet long experience teaches us that the irksomeness of discipline is the best character-moulder next to human life. We are an extravagant people, as all Americans are. Mothers humor their children with all sorts of needless expenditures, and themselves keep no account, nor take stock of financial, personal conditions. Grandmothers too often live on the scant patience and scrimped generosity of children and children-in-law. These elderly women face the prospect of death and burial with more or less shrinking dread, not because they fear for the spiritual future, but because their own life experience teaches them that niggardly children are 4 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. apt to breed life-long quarrels over the death and burial expenses of an elderly relative or parent or, on the other hand, that their death and burial expenses will create a burdensome debt which may last through years, souring the memory of the overgenerous children left behind who face the necessity of meeting extravagant burial expenses. We may philosophize all we will in regard to the reverence due old age and our own tender emotions toward our aged parents and relatives, but would we face the actual fact of a more or less expensive funeral for that same parent or relative, and we ourselves already staggering under unbearable loads of debt and depression? Sympathy, affection, loyalty, and tender emotion fly out of the window. There is the hundred or two hundred dollars' debt to meet, and easy-going, or selfish-minded sons-in-law are very apt to refuse to lend a hand in the payment of the debt. How few grandmothers retain the ownership of their own homes! They are cajoled and persuaded by bustling sons, or coaxing daughters, and daughters-in-law, into disposing of their property rights in their homes, for the brilliant prospects of their children and children-in-law. Alas, alas, how many such mothers and grandmothers, right among our own people, eat the bitter bread of dependence and wonder why Providence permits them to suffer from their own weakness and lack of common sense. The laws of the universe are not founded on sentiment, much less on sentimentality, and the human being must abide by the results of his own, or her own actions. The kindness that breeds extravagance and selfishness in children will grow its own crop of forgetful and cruel children. Another class of women who have perhaps reached a measure of worldly prosperity still look forward with dread to the uncertain conditions that may surround their last obsequies. To these the insurance offered by the Relief Society will come as a boon and a blessing by the payment of a trifling sum weekly or monthly, in which a woman can be assured of sufficient money at her death to bury her decently and independently out of sight without taxing a single relative or friend left behind. Oh, the comfort of going to rest at night and tucking under one's pillow the thought that no matter how soon death might approach, there is ample provision for comfortable burial expense made by one's self and independently provided for one's own burial. In the matter of any mission or school insurance, the exceedingly low rates which we are prepared to offer, makes possible two of the very best conditions that can be offered to the children of the Latter-day Saints. By the payment of a trifling RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 5 sum weekly or monthly, a boy or girl, can be assured of sufficient money to have a year's schooling in an eastern university, or to send him upon a mission, and more or less assistance while he is there. What an object to work for! What an ideal to place before the mind of a growing boy when he is preparing himself financially, as well as spiritually, for the greatest event that can happen in his young life, namely, a mission. How every honorable and unselfish emotion is struggling in the breast of parent and child who assists in the foundation of such a purpose. Insensibly the boy or youth will look forward to such an event as the culmination of his young life's purpose. Then consider what the saving habit means to an individual or to a family, when children are taught the value and importance of putting five or ten cents weekly into an insurance fund. The object for which they thus save will be settled firmly in their own minds for the future benefit of themselves and all associated with them. To be able to have one, two, or three hundred dollars saved up in small monthly sums, and draw it out in the course of ten, fifteen, or twenty years, is something to work for. which stimulates the best there is in every boy. He is to be the future wage earner of a family, and this early lesson of thrift and economy, of saving for a definite purpose, lays the strongest possible foundations in his character. Is this object worthy of our best endeavors? Our agents will be chosen and equipped in due time, and when they get out among the people they will be able to explain in greater detail this plan of benefit insurance. We speak for them and for the work in general your hearty support. It must be understood by our sisters that only those who are enrolled as members of the Relief Society can take out the insurance as given by us. June GENEALOGY Lesson VI (Twenty Minutes.) Numbering. In preparing the data for pedigrees and for genealogical information of all kinds for use in the Temples, it is necessary that we give all possible marks of identification that will help us to identify the dead through their surnames, and places of residence, and their relations to the living heir. There is 6 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. also another necessity, and that is that the names of our dead shall be so placed in our records that we can readily put them where they belong when taking them out on Temple sheets, or recording them after the Temple work is done. In order to do this carefully, orderly, and clearly, it has been found necessary to number each name, and that that name shall retain its number always. Children in orphans' asylums, individuals in penal institutions, and indeed in many public institutions, are numbered. It was an old-fashioned custom in the pioneer schools to number the pupils. Numbers are symbols as much as Christian and surnames are; and, in order that the students of these lessons shall have the forms used in this society, you will find a sample sheet numbered in the Genealogical Lesson book. The value of numbering is too great to detail here, but it may be stated that individuals whose names we record are numbered consecutively. The first name being number one. the second number two, the third number three, and so on. If number one and two are parents, and number three, four, five, six, and seven, are children, when number three occurs again as the parent of other children, it would be confusing unless he retained his original number, and that is what is done. If he was number three in the original entry, the three would be, repeated when his name occurs the second time; but when it is repeated, we write the name in red ink, so that the eye may catch it quickly and readily know that this is a repeated number. The same with all numbers. The repeated numbers in the lead pencil notebook have a dash under them and over them, in order to distinguish them for the eye to catch quickly. A cross is placed against the name or number of any child who appears the second time in a record, as the head of a family, so that when we see a cross against a name we understand that this name will occur again on a subsequent page in the record. It sometimes happens that we secure the additional information, or names of children or husbands, or wives, of which we were ignorant when we first recorded the family. When that is the case, if it is only one child, say, or another wife, the one name might be crowded in under the others and numbered the same as the last child with the addition of (a) which would make it (8 a). If there is considerable additional information, say three or five more children in a family, the whole family would better be repeated in later pages or books with an entry stating that the family first appeared on page so and so, and that this is a continuation of the family; but when this is done, the names of the family RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 7 which were entered in the first place should be numbered in red ink with the same numbers that they had in the first place, while the additional names are numbered in consecutive form the same as any other name. Perhaps a little study of a sample page will be more useful than any further explanations which might be given here. A study of pages 48 and 49 in the lessons in genealogy will illustrate this principle of numbering. June HOME ETHICS Lesson VI. Economy in the Home. Economy in the home is very necessary for the promotion and security of a substantial foundation for the family. Want comes to many people who do not practice economy in early life. Our greatest financiers have often been boys of poor parentage who had many hardships to meet early in the beginning of their careers, but through strict economy and the careful use of time and means, they managed to save something each month. We need not go out of our own state to verify this declaration. In our best-kept homes and the happiest surroundings, this custom of economy will always be found in evidence everywhere. We do not mean closeness, nor penuriousness, but the care and proper regard for our own and other people's things, and their right use, and the correct place in which to keep them. In the home every daughter should be taught the use of money, and the ability to audit the expenses of the home, keep a strict account of her expenditures throughout the year, know what her income is, and where she has spent it. No young woman has a right to marry a good young man if she can be only an ornament. The time is past when this, if it ever were the case, brings happiness. In this enlightened age, as much is expected from a woman as from a man. His sphere in life is different, but none the less important. Every small child should have its savings bank, then if later he or she can take out insurance, well and good. In a well-ordered home, the mother and each daughter should have some line of work to superintend; the making of clothing, mending and darning, marketing, cooking, and dusting, etc. What an economy of time it is if every one has a system, and sees that it is correctly carried out in each department! 8 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. We do not believe in the so-called economy where inferior articles are used in the building of a home, making of a home, or in the living, but in choosing the best materials always and in using care to protect and guard them from injury. It is strictly economical to always use only the best of everything. Domestic economy is as important as a bank account, because, it is what will produce the funds to be banked. It is often the small leaks, and what may be thought unimportant losses, that sometimes are the serious drains in our homes. A competent housekeeper will always watch these points, and correct them as soon as discovered. We should not only have the daughters take an interest in the careful expense of the family living, but the help in the house should be instructed as well. Respect shown towards those employed in the home begets respect from them to us. If we are kind and considerate of their best interests, they will usually take an interest in us and in our homes. If we practice economy of the best kind, in all that we do, we readily find the members of the household practicing the same rules. The economy, the comfort, and the pleasantness of all the surroundings in our homes are largely dependent upon the mother's attitude. Fathers and sons build the houses, but mothers and daughters certainly provide the interior arrangement, as we find them to a greater or less degree, and their influence has a great deal to do with the success or failure of the family. The lives of many girls are ruined by the indulgence of parents. Mothers, there is no economy in rearing girls who are helpless, who have had no responsibility in the parental home. Review. (a) Economy in the home is necessary for the promotion and security of a substantial foundation. (b) Many of our greatest financiers have been boys of poor parentage. We need not go out of our own state to verify this. (c) In our best kept and most prosperous homes, economy is in evidence everywhere. Girls should be taught the use of money, and to (d) audit and keep their accounts. (e) Our daughters should share in the responsibility of the homes. (f) Girls have no right to marry good young men unless responsibilities of they are willing to help bear the home-making. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 9 (g) We believe in the savings bank; and in the economy that always uses only the best materials in building homes, in furnishing them, and in the living of the family. (h) Mothers, wives, and daughters make the atmosphere of the interior of the home. (i) There is no economy in rearing a helpless family of daughters and sons. June HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN. Lesson VI. "Ask ye of the Lord rain in the time of the latter rain; so the Lord shall make bright clouds, and give them showers of rain, to every one, grass in the field." (Zech. 10:1.) Weeding. By digging the whole garden just as soon as the soil is in condition, the early germination of weed seeds will be aided, and as soon as they appear above the ground can be killed by proper cultivation. Some gardeners think that so long as the weeds are exterminated and the soil watered, nothing more is required. Watering. Great care should be exercised in the use of water, especially in the early stages of plant life. A heavy watering of the soil, whether applied with hose or by nature, or sometimes by the ever generous sprinkling cart, will pack most soils down so hard that they become almost impervious to air. Air should be present in the soil to assist in the decompositions and chemical changes that must continually go on in the conversion of plant-food into forms that the plants can use. Proper cultivation, constant stirring about, pulverizing and aeration of the soil, are essential, especially in the beginning. The amount of water to apply can only be determined by experience with the type of soil being used. A general rule to follow is to water thoroughly, but not often, as soon as dry enough. After the application of water, cultivate to prevent the formation of a surface crust. Second Planting of Corn, Peas, etc. We wish to encourage the planting of a second crop of peas, corn, etc., that we may have an extension of the production of green vegetables so complimentary to securing good health. When planting seeds in mid-summer, prepare the surface of the soil before you are ready to sow. Aim to get the seeds earth is covered while the soil is still damp, be sure that the 10 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. pressed firmly around the seeds on all sides. This is an important point to remember, also planting should be much deeper than in early spring, since we are more sure that the earth is cool and moist deeper down than near the surface. Gardening is one of the privileges and pleasures that should be enjoyed by a large majority of families. May the time soon come when more interest will be taken in the production of the home supply of fresh vegetables. Asparagus Bed Left to Seed. Do not cut asparagus after the middle of June. It should be left to seed and dry down for the fall mulching and fertilizing, thus giving it a better start for the next year. Drying Apples, Peaches, Corn, etc. Last fall, while visiting through some of the country towns, we saw bushels of plums, peaches, and apples still hanging on the trees, while the ground was fairly carpeted with these delicious fruits. It seems so strange, and we who have to purchase these fruits must pay the price for those that are wasted on the ground or left for the frost to spoil. Would it be possible to have fruit dried on shares? Or hire boys and girls to assist in preparing it for drying? It is strange that in our country stores, as well as in the city, we find imported evaporated fruits. If there is a demand for dried fruits, why not supply the demand with our own home-grown products, which are much better in flavor and taste, and requires less time in which to cook? Then, too, there is the fact that we are using instead of wasting the bounteous gifts of our Creator, and are also giving employment to hundreds of boys and girls who are out of school. We are placing on the market better and more suitable fruits for which people are willing to pay a good price, and at the same time the purchaser is made to feel that he has received something for his money. After the process of drying has been accomplished, each kind of fruit should be placed by itself, marked according to name, and sold for its value. There is a great deal of difference in the cooking qualities of apples for instance, one would pay more for Astrakhan or Golden Duchess than for the eating, or ordinary table apples dried. In preparing them, be as careful as if you were going to bottle the fruit, taking all the skin off. See to it that the whole core is taken out. Fruit should not be too ripe before drying, as then it loses much of its flavor and juice. Choose good, sound fruit, peel, core, and place on tables or boards covered with a clean, white cloth, in the sun cover with white mosquito; netting to keep out the flies and other insects, turn often, and RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 11 leave out in the open until all moisture has evaporated sack in clean bags, tie, and mark. Good dried apples can be sold at any time of the year at from 8c to 10c per pound. They are very successfully dried in the house or on the summer porch, strung on white thread and hung up where the heat of the sun can reach them. They are white and have a fine flavor when cured in this way. Dried Corn. Sweet corn should be plucked while tender and young, boiled in the inner shuck until the milk has set, then husked off, cut from the cob, placed in the sun, and covered with white mosquito netting. Do not allow it to become damp, or it will turn dark. Stir it often, and dry until all moisture has evaporated. Then place in sacks marked and well tied and keep in a cool place. There is a great demand for home-cured corn, and it finds a ready sale at 12c to 15c per pound. Have yours of the very best, and it will keep you busy supplying the demands. Peaches, Apricots, Plums, and Pears are all Peeled, Stoned, and Cored. They are dried in the same manner as description herein given for apples. A much higher price is usually paid for these fruits than for apples, because they are more difficult to handle. Some of our young people do not know what dried fruit looks like. Let us teach them by having them assist us in drying this season's crop. Food Values of Fruits. In all our experiences we are convinced that with a sufficient fruit diet the average man or child has thrived better than on a diet which does not contain a sufficient amount of fruit food value. The body requires the acids contained in the various fruits such as malic and citric acid, and we are not at our best unless the body is supplied with these as well as with mineral matter, such as potatoes, salts, phosphorous, iron, lime, and others which are also found in fruits. The sugars in fruits are distinctly valuable, they are the one kind which stands ready for our direct assimilation, requiring less work for the body than the ordinary cane sugar; these sugars do not require so much making over in the intestinal tract, and are of greater value in relieving muscular fatigue; for the relief of such fatigue we recommend grapes, sweet cherries, apples, gooseberries, raspberries. We also call attention to the dried fruits which contain a great quantity of sugar. Prunes contain 32 per cent, English currents, 54 per cent, raisins, 61 per cent, figs, 48 per cent, dates. 66 per cent. Aside from the sugar value of fruit, it has another which should not be overlooked, and that is as 12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. a laxative. Of course, green vegetables aid in a similar way, but should not be relied on wholly. For this purpose use a judicious mixture of both vegetables and fruit for the best results. Of dried fruits, figs, prunes, peaches, apricots, pears, and apples in the order named, as these appear to be the most useful. They should always be washed thoroughly in lukewarm water, soaked in cold water over night, then cooked in the water in which they have been soaked, using a double boiler or casserole, and placing on the back of the stove to simmer, for two or three hours or more. For best results, if not for taste, sugar should never be added. June LITERATURE Lesson VI. (Thirty Minutes.) Ten-Minute Talk on Current Events. Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin. Subject: Franklin's Plan of Life. References: Altemus edition. Chapter 8, beginning page 147, and Crowell edition, pages 117-132. Sentiment: "Beware of little expenses; a small leak will sink a great ship." 1. The thirteen virtues as outlined by Franklin with precepts added. 2. Order of arrangement according to Franklin's idea's. 3. Rules adopted for practicing these virtues; book, method of marking, etc. 4. Scheme of employment for the twenty-four hours of a natural day, or daily program. 5. Benefits derived from practicing the virtues. 6. Franklin's prayer. Questions. 1. What was the object of the plan of life? 2. What obstacles did Franklin encounter in trying to overcome his faults? 3. How did he compare his method of eradicating faults with that of the gardener? RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 13 4. Give the motto selected from Addison's Cato. 5. Give the motto on wisdom selected from the Proverbs of Solomon. 6. In studying himself, how was Franklin surprised? 7. Which scheme gave Franklin the most trouble? 8. Tell the story of the axe and apply it. 9. In his old age what were Franklin's observations on his "scheme of life?" 10. Why was religious sentiment avoided in arranging the scheme? 11. Give the relation between virtue and happiness. 12. What two qualities are mentioned as a foundation for worldly success? 13. Why was "humility" added to the list? 14. How was it practiced? 15. What does Franklin say about "pride?" June ART AND ARCHITECTURE Lesson VI. (Ten Minutes.) I. Topic Lee Greene Richards, Painter. Tell of his parentage and gift. How did his mission to England aid in his art career? What honors did he win in art study abroad? Where did he study in Paris? What has he painted for the Relief Society? What for the memorial cottage at Sharon, Vermont? Where was the hearthstone obtained which adorns this cottage? Why are flowers kept on the mantel under pictures of Lucy Mack Smith and Joseph and Hyrum? Who has visited this shrine the memorial cottage? What are Lee Greene Richards' greatest qualities as a painter? Which of his paintings, if any, have you seen? II. Topic M. M. Young, Sculptor and Painter. Parentage, gift, honors, study, monument to sea-gulls. Story of the locusts, and sea-gulls averting destruction to the crops. Monuments to Joseph and Hyrum, in the Temple block. Other art productions. The story of these two artists are in the book which Mrs. Alice Merrill Home is publishing, "Devotees and Their Shrines," a handbook of Utah art. The publishers promise the book for June 1. 14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. NOTES ON THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. With a large attendance from practically all of the stakes of the Church, the annual conference of the Relief Society was held on April 2 and 3. At the opening session, President Emmeline B. Wells extended a cordial welcome to those in attendance. The response was given in a few well chosen words by Dicy W. Henderson, president of Pocatello stake. Stake reports were made as follows St. Johns stake, by E. L. S. Udall; Yellowstone, by Julia A. Miller; Bingham, by Elvira C. Steele Snowflake, by Nellie W. Smith Duchesne, by; ; Aroetta Hale Holgate; Alberta, by Grace Cazier. Dr. Stauffer gave an address on "Diseases of the Nose and Throat," in which he spoke of the effects of adenoids and disease of the tonsils on the mentality of children, and gave valuable suggestions. The second session of the conference was devoted to a discussion of the "Guide" and "Bulletin." Counselor Clarissa S. Williams gave a general discussion of the subject. The following named speakers gave addresses on the topics indicated Professor J. Leo Fairbanks, "Civic Pride;" Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, "Home Ethics;" Professor John Henry Evans, "Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin." The important features of the business meeting on Friday morning were short discussions as follows: "Official Publication for the Coming Year," by Counselor Clarissa S. Williams; "Betterment Work," by Sarah M. McLelland; "Nurse Class," by Elizabeth Crismon and Dr. Margaret C. Roberts; "Burial of the Dead." by Julina L. Smith; "Insurance," by Janette A. Hyde; "Peace," by Emily S. Richards; "Membership Fund," by Sarah J. Cannon; "Public Health," by Alice Merrill Home. With regard to Relief Society report blanks and record books, it was reported by Counselor Clarissa S. Williams that a committee has been appointed and is at work investigating the advisability of remodeling them so as to meet more adequately the present needs of the Society. This committee expects to make report at the October conference. Additional remarks were made by President Emmeline B. Wells. At the closing session, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth read a paper on the subject, "What the Relief Society Has Done for Women." Janette A. Hyde treated the subject, "Home Gardening for Women." Remarks were also made by Susa Y. Gates, Elizabeth C. McCune, and Romania B. Penrose, of the General Board. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 15 The closing address of the conference was made by President Emmeline B. Wells. She paid a high tribute to the late Susan Noble Grant, a member of the General Board, who had passed away since the last conference. Attention was called particularly to the happy disposition and guiltless life of the deceased. President Wells expressed herself as being proud of the Relief Society, as an organization, and she was well pleased with the earnest efforts of the members who are striving to keep up the standard set for the organization in the beginning. On motion of Elvira C. Steele, President of the Bingham stake, a rising vote of thanks and appreciation was given to President E. B. Wells for her long, faithful and efficient service as editor of the "Woman's Exponent." Genealogical Convention. The Genealogical Convention was held as scheduled, at the close of the General Conference of the Church. About four hundred delegates attended. These delegates represented the sixty-five stakes of the Church, and some of the missions. The Convention lasted three days, and much interest and enthusiasm were manifested throughout the session. New Board Member. Miss Sarah Eddington has been appointed a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Susan Noble Grant. Miss Eddington has long been an efficient worker on the board of the Y. L. M. I. A., and comes to us ably prepared and with a wide experience. Marion Banks FINE Charlton's CLOAK & SUIT CO. Millinery The right place for AT REASONABLE PRICES practical styles in GOODWIN CORSETS Women's Wear This ad. will redeem 10 per cent on purchase at regular price 321 SO. MAIN STREET, Opp. Walkers 16 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. MONEY FOR BULLETINS AND LESSON BOOKS. All orders for Bulletins or Lesson Books, all money to be expended in this direction should be sent to the Relief Society Bulletin, Room 28 Bishop's Building. THOMAS HULL ELLJAH A. LARKIN GEO. W. LARKIN ALMA J. LARKIN LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO. EMBALMERS AND FUNERAL DIRECTORS. CHAPEL & PARLORS 255 SO. 2nd EAST ST. Phone Wasatch 5132 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH A Grafonola for the Ward $25 Upward $10 Cash $5 a Mo. Play over in your Ward House records of the singing of the famous TABERNACLE CHOIR Also any records you want for any occasion dance popular sacred, etc. Older than the State of Utah Write for Catalogue and FREE calendar. ICE CREAM SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST" Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc. TWO STORES 55 Main St. 260 State St. Prompt Delivery Phones: Wasatch 3223--3224 Jensen's Blanchard Butter (Single Brick) Jensens Butters possess a wondrous flavor a flavor that's irresistible. To secure it, only the choicest cream is used. Every ounce is selected by test. That which doesn't pass inspection is Four-in-One discarded. Jensen's Butters are practically the only butter in which such high-grade cream is used. Still no advance in price is asked. Buy Jensen's Butters. Enjoy their premier quality aid delightful flavor. Tell your neighbors to use them. Jensens Four-in-One Butter (Four Individual Bricks) JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake W. N. Williams, Supt. Clarissa S. Williams. Sec'y & Treas R. N. Wilson. Asst. Supt Guaranteed Furniture at Lowest Prices Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable. Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Go-Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT Co-op. Furniture Co. Next Door South of Z. C. M. I. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief General Board Society FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Phones Wasatch 3455 and Wasatch 207 Salt Lake City Utah SEEDS AND PLANTS Fresh, pure acclimated seeds for lawn, flower and vegetable gardens. Bedding Plants, Choice Cut Flowers, fresh from our greenhouse. Make the "home beautiful." Our free guide book tells how. Ask for it. PORTER=WALTON CO. SEEDSMEN, NURSERYMEN & FLORISTS Cor. State and Broadway. Phone Ex. 717 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. Star Printing Company 35 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 1370 Salt Lake City, Utah ASK YOUR DEALER FOR Z. C. M. I. Western Scout Shoes The Ideal Out-door Shoe For Men, Youths, Boys, Cheap, serviceable. Used extensively by Carpenters, Iron workers, boy scouts, etc. MOUNTAINEER" or "THE LEADER" Overalls are honestly made. They don't rip. CUTLER'S UTAH MADE GOODS Command Attention Buy At Home Approved Garments Bleached or Unbleached 75c Light Weight $1.00 Lisle Thread $1.00 Medium Weight = $1.25 Heavy Weight POSTAGE PREPAID. Provo Dress Goods==Suitings==Blankets. SAMPLES SENT ON REQUEST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH HOTEL UTAH 500 Rooms. Fireproof Opened June 8, 1911 The very best of every, thing at sensible prices." Rates for room without bath $1.50 and $2.00. With bath $2.50 per day and upwards. Under the Management of GEORGE O. REYNOLDS SEE McCONAHAY For Diamonds 64 MAIN ST. The Jeweler Salt Lake $22 and up BETTER THINGS TO EAT TWO PLACES CORNER MAIN & 1st SO. 158 South Main St. WHILE LABORING FOR THE POOR AND AIDING THE WIDOW IN WANT, DON'T NEGLECT YOURSELF AND FAMILY Have they the proper protection in case of sickness or death of your bread winner or will you be compelled to look for charity? Has he sufficient life insurance to assure you this protection? JOHN C. CUTLER LORENZO N. STOHL 1st. Vice President. 2nd. Vice Pres. & Mgr. INSURANCE OVER IN FORCE $ 12,000,000.00 JOSEPH F. SMITH President. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home office, Vermont Building Salt Lake City, Utah C. W. NIBLEY RICHARD W. YOUNG Member Ex. Com. Counsel