[Vol12 | December 1925 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The Semi-Centennial of the Brigham Young University]

The Semi-Centennial of the Brigham Young University
Last month a number of important anniversaries occurred which were appropriately celebrated. Perhaps the one that attracted the most attention was that of the semi-centennial celebration held at the Brigham Young University, Provo City, Utah. Many old students returned to their Alma Mater, and greetings were the order of the hour. The most important feature of the celebration was the address delivered by Dr. Herbert E. Bolton, head of the Department of History of the University of California, on the "Mormons" and the development of the West. The address was comprehensive in its scope, extraordinary in its scholarship, and most fascinating in the manner of its presentation. It is seldom that any one is privileged to hear so masterful an address. His closing words sent a thrill to the heart of every student of the institution, to every lover of education in the audience, and filled the people with a sense of pride because of achievements wrought by good leadership and hearty cooperation. We include Dr. Bolton's tribute to education:
[LEWIS HALL, THE FIRST HOME OF THE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY, AND THE SURVIVORS OF THE ORIGINAL 29. FLOAT IN SEMI-CENTENNIAL PARADE]
Education
"Young and the founders believed in education. In Nauvoo they had maintained schools and established a university. They maintained schools for their children on the dreary march to the Basin. In the pioneer days every new settlement, as soon as it had planted crops, opened a school, in the open air, in tents, in log houses, in adobe buildings. Worthy of remembrance among Utah heroes are the pioneer teachers who taught in those little adobe schools. Every city charter provided for schools and grammar and high schools were soon established.
"At the top of the system were placed the colleges and universities. It is the boast of Utah that the first law of the state of Deseret provided for building roads and bridges and the second for a state university. That institution, founded in 1850, was the first university west of the Missouri. In an appeal to patrons of learning throughout the world the first chancellor, Orson Spencer, declared that, 'The emigrant outcasts of all nations will find here the cheapest terms.' It is neither arrogant nor extravagant to say that this institution is forthwith prepared to teach more living languages classically than any other university on the face of the earth; and as to the matter of dead languages, we leave them mostly to the dead." The university was opened in 1851. Tuition was eighty cents a week. Teachers' salaries were paid in potatoes, cabbage, and lumber. "Instead of being drawn on the bank, they were drawn on wheelbarrows."
Brigham Young the Founder
At the head and center of all these remarkable doings for more than a quarter of a century was Brigham Young. Of course, he had many able lieutenants. Wherever Brigham led, the "Mormons" followed. Wherever Brigham directed, the "Mormons" went. He was the head of their Church, their spiritual guide, their mentor in every-day conduct. He led them across Iowa. He directed their march to the basin. Against other advice he determined the location for the new Zion. He chose the site for the capitol and for the temple. He was generally the titular and always the real head of the secular government. He directed the founding of new colonies, the development of industries. He stamped the life of the community. He established the public school system. He signed the act for the founding of the state university, and shortly before he died, as a special means of carrying on education under the direct influence of "Mormon" ideals, he endowed and founded two "Mormon" institutions of higher learning. One was the Brigham Young College. The other was this institution whose founding half a century ago we now celebrate. On that eventful day he made all you young people before me and the generations to come his heirs. No wonder you revere his memory.
It is certainly a cause for gratification that 50 years after the founding of the institution, one who is not numbered among us religiously, should come to us and should pay such high tribute to the Great Founder.