[Vol11 | October 1924 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: National Conference of Social Workers]

National Conference of Social Workers The fifty-first annual meeting of the National Conference of Social Work met in Toronto, Canada, June 25 to July 2, 1924. The attendance was large as usual, with between 3,000 and 4,000 delegates present, and the interest was keen throughout the week.

Utah was well represented at the conference, there being in attendance the following delegates: Mrs. Louise Y. Robison and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, of the General Board of Relief Society; Miss A. A. Buffington and Miss Kate Williams, of the Charity Organization Society; Mr. Arthur L. Beeley, of the Y. M. M. I. A. General Board, who is now in attendance at Chicago University; the Rev. Mr. Carver and wife, of Ogden; Judge C R. Biadford of the Juvenile Court.

The group of delegates who had gone from Utah was augmented by President and Mrs. Joseph Quinney of the Canadian mission, and about twenty-five _ missionaries, men and women who are working: in the Canadian mission.

The Utah delegation had gone to Toronto with an invitation to the conference to hold its next annual meeting in Salt Lake City, and so conspicious and effective was the work of the delegates that the meeting was lost to Denver by only a narrow margin.

The efforts of the Utah group in the interest of securing the meeting received much favorable comment and after the stereoptican pictures of Salt Lake and Utah scenery were shown at the close of one of the evening sessions to three thousand people, the Utah delegation was beseiged with inquiries and a general desire was expressed to bring the conference to Utah in the near future.

The National Conference of Social-Work is fifty-one years old.

It began as a part of the American Social Science Associa-, tion in 1874. The first meeting was attended by only the secretaries of three state boards of charities, and at the 1924 conference there were nearly four thousand in attendance.

The object of the conference is to facilitate discussion of problems and methods of practical human improvement; to increase the efficiency of public and private agencies and institutions devoted to this cause; and to disseminate information with respect to welfare, work, The conference consists of ten permanent divisions as follows: Children, Delinquents and Correction, Health, Public Agencies and Institutions, The Family, Industrial and Economic Problems, The Local Community, Organization of Social Forces, Public Officials ee NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF SOCIAL WORKERS 505 -and Administration and Immigration.

The officers consist of a president and three vice-presidents, elected annually, and a genera!

Secretary whose office is permanent.

The general secretary is a paid worker and manages all the details of the organization.

After the election of officers each year, chairmen are appointed by the executive officers for each of the divisions. _ These chairmen choose their own committee members with the approval of the executive committee, and immediately make tentative outlines for the program for the next year's conference.

The president of the 1924 conference was Miss Grace Abbott, director of the Children's Bureau at Washington, D. C. In her opening address she made a plea for normal opportunities for all American children.

The delegates to the conference are specialists in every phase of social and welfare work.

The speakers are men and women of national and international repute, including professors from the great universities, philosophers, government experts, and social workers, representing all types of social welfare.

Among the many noted speakers, at the 1924 meeting, were a number of women, the foremost of whom are: Miss Grace Abbott, Miss Edith Abbott, Miss Jane Addams, and Mrs. Mabel W. Willebrandt, United States assistant attorney-general.

Over sixty meetings were held in the ten divisions, and the subject of health, physical and mental, received much emphasis, as did also the subject of law enforcement.

In every section pleas were made for greater interest in human life, and particularly the conservation of the youth.

The importance of normal living conditions and of opportunities for the young were featured, and social workers were urged to institute preventive programs, ? through education and legislation, as well as to give attention to present needs and distress "The service for the weak and heavy laden, for the least amongst our brothers, is not a sentimental ideal, but a law of life on which, in the end even self preservation depends."?Dr. Alice Saloman.: MRS.