prompted by a sense of propriety and a consciousness of self-insufficiency. He was a sinner, knew it, confessed it, and was on the way to becoming a saint. The Pharisee was a sinner, too, knew it, would not confess it, and was on the path of pride that goeth before a fall.
The declaration of Jesus as to the religious quality of the two men is strikingly representative of the truth that he who is righteous in his own conceit, there is more hope of a sinner than of him. There is a vast difference between being righteous in one's own conscience and in being righteous in one's own conceit; one is hypocrisy, the other is honesty.
The immediate purpose of this parable was, no doubt, emphatically to denounce the religious pomposity of the Pharisee, and to approve of the relative sincerity and toleration of the publican. The parable reached down the ages and will reach on to eternity with the mighty lesson that "he who exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted."
People unconsciously play the Pharisee in many ways: neighbors exulting in a fancied superiority, and parents priding themselves on having been so much better than are their children. Usually this self-exaltation ends in a finding-out that reveals the sand-pile foundation of the brag-castles. There is, however, a commendable, consistent kind of self-recommendation such as the Master himself made use of: "I am the life and the light of the world, follow me."
The Pharisaical tendency seems to have a radical root based on some universal human trait; the undesirability of which is laid bare in this parable. In Papini's Life of Christ we find the following: "Sinners, when they recognize the evil which is in their hearts and abjure it with true humility, are nearer to the Kingdom than pious men who daub themselves with the praise of their own piety."
The Parable of the Rich Fool. Luke 12: 16-21,
This parable denounces the delusion of self-security.
"And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully:
"And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow my fruits?
"And he said, This I will do: I will pull down my barns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods.
"And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry.
"But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall
"There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day:
"And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of sores,
"And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table: moreover the dogs came and licked his sores.
"And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom: the rich man also died, and was buried;
"And in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.
"And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his fingers in water, and cool my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame.
"But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things: but now he is comforted, and thou art tormented.
"And beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed: so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot; neither can they pass to us, that would come from thence.
"Then he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou wouldest send him to my father's house:
"For I have five brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment.
"Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them.
"And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent.
"And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead."
Comments: Evidently this parable was presented to a mixed multitude. It was especially directed to the unphilanthropic rich of the day, and taught the lesson to all for all time that greed and godliness are so opposed to each other that there never can be a place in heaven for anyone who grasps the good things of this world and holds them with a hand of selfishness.
Here was the rich man who lived to dress and eat and parade his power; a Judean Epicurean living only for the hour; with haughty head and icy heart and grasping hand, he led his life of luxury. There was the beggar, not an indolent street lounger, but an unfortunate cripple who could not walk, "which was laid at his gate full of sores." His destitution and helplessness furnished a condition by which the heart of the rich man could become an icicle or a fountain of love.

The rich man developed pride and the beggar developed patience; one grew in greediness and the other grew in gratitude; and thus the gulf widened into a chasm over which angels cannot ever bear messages. The great laws of compensation and the eternal fitness of things make impossible even a miracle that would transport a "greedist" from the climate of habitual cold heartedness to that of a kingdom of kindness, "in the twinkling of an eye." The trail of experience must be climbed, the neglectful rich shall feel the pinch of spiritual poverty, and the gluttonous wealthy shall sense the pangs of spiritual hunger.
Angels carried Lazarus into the bosom of Abraham. What is the bosom of Abraham? It is no doubt the approval of God; but it is also the consciousness of a condition that would make the society of the generous Patriarch enjoyable.
The rich man died and lifted up his eyes in hell. This was no doubt the disfavor of God, and was it not, too, a realization of the total absence of the sources of selfish gratification? Nothing of his wealth could follow this rich man, and he had sent nothing of it before him. Treasures of heaven he had none. Habituated to plenty, he found himself in poverty, spoiled with sycophant praise he found himself in the midst of censure.
What is the impassable gulf? Whatever else the gulf may be, it is character-difference. The patient, grateful, humble character of Lazarus could neither go nor be taken to a place of spiritual discomfort; for these qualities of soul are the very essence of spiritual comfort. The greedy, unappreciative, haughty character of the rich man could never make way to the place of Abrahamic comfort because these selfish characteristics are incompatible with soul happiness.
Was not the hell also the quickened consciousness of guilt in the form of neglect?a going wrong by leaving the right undone? This miserable poor rich man looked up out of his torment and then began to climb up. When his heart went out for the safety of his brothers he gave evidence of coming out of the cell of selfishness, and when he made a stronger plea for his brothers than he had made for himself he showed real Christian courage. In his argument with Abraham his head was wrong but his heart was right. He could feel for his brothers, they were almost a part of him, but he could not understand that special service must precede special consideration. Lazarus, the once neglected beggar, is now recognized as a source of much needed help. "Send Lazarus," the rich man called, when he begged to have his parched lips moistened. "Send Lazarus," he cried, when he wanted his brother warned. His petition for his own relief was answered by citing him to the
provisions of the great law of compensation. Had he sympathized with Lazarus and given the beggar relief, the rich man would have been sharing the beggar's afflictions, and been entitled to gracious consideration. His first plea for the sending of Lazarus to warn his brothers was answered by a suggestion that they give heed to the messengers already sent, and his final appeal was met with a declaration in effect that those who will not be guided by the regularly revealed word of the Lord would not be guided by the words of a special messenger.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Discuss this proposition: The publican prayed; the Pharisee said his prayer.
2. Why was the parable of the Pharisee and the publican a better way to strike at the self-conceit of the Pharisees than the direct denunciation made to his disciples and recorded in Luke 12: 1?
3. Explain the difference between the aloofness of the Pharisee and that of the publican.
4. Give an illustration of commendable self-recommendation.
5. What sin is especially denounced by the parable of the rich fool?
6. Discuss the proposition: Ease without anxiety is like heaven without helpfulness.
7. In what way is an accounting demanded of each of us every night?
8. Show that Jesus taught by the parable of Lazarus and the rich man what he has proclaimed to us through Joseph Smith. See Doctrine and Covenants, 56: 16.
9. What does the bosom of Abraham, spoken of in the parable, mean to you?
10. What is the impassable gulf spoken of in the parable?
11. How could the rich man of the parable have sent some of his wealth before him into the world of spirits?
12. What would happen to heaven if greed were permitted to get there?
LESSON II (Second Week in December) Work AND BUSINESS