[Vol11 | October 1924 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Conference of American Prison Association, Juvenile Agencies, and National Probation Association During the recent joint national conference of the American Prison Association, the National Juvenile Agencies, and National Probation Association, held in Salt Lake City, August 15 to 22, the Relief Society headquarters were flooded with visitors from the east and from the west, all eager to learn of the welfare work done by the Relief Society and by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The visitors were men and women of renown in the field of prison reform and probation work, and are devoting their lives to benefit humanity. They are all agreed that the most potent social work is preventive work and they were especially interested in the efforts being made by our Church to conserve family life, to promote health, and to supervise the leisure time activities of the youth. They also asked concerning family and individual rehabilitation work in the Church. As far as possible, details of the work of the Church itself and of the various auxiliaries were discussed and explained to the visitors, who were most interested in all they could learn of our people and institutions. Detroit Relief Saciety Visits Kirtland Temple Some very beautiful, interesting and unique souvenirs have just been received at the Relief Society office from Mrs, Lucy Wright Snow of Royal Oak, Michigan. These souvenirs are in the form of broad white ribbon badges, upon which are printed the words of the hymn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning." They were used by the members of the Detroit Relief Society in a recent trip to the Kirtland Temple where the Society was permitted to hold religious services. The excursion party consisted of forty-one Relief Society women who felt it a special blessing to be able to visit the historic Kirtland temple, where so many important events took place in the early days of the Church, and to hold a service within its walls which was probably the first L. D. S. Meeting held in the edifice since the Latterday Saints left Kirtland in 1838. After speaking of the very interesting meeting, Mrs. Snow writes: "I can assure you we sang the song enclosed, with enthusiasm and vigor, shouting the hosannas in very deed," ? 520 ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Morgan Stake. Relief Society ward conferences were held in Morgan during April and May. The stake board outlined a suggestive program on "Service" which was carried out in every ward. The stake board members made their annual excursion to the Salt Lake temple on May 22. Eighty. Per cent of the members were in attendance. Dr. Richards and Mrs. Conover of the Bureau of Child Hygiene, ? State Board of Health, were in Morgan county, July 14, 15 and 16, and with the assistance of the Relief Society, established health centers at Morgan and Devil Slide. Ninety children were examined and organizations effected at each place. New Zealand Mission. The Relief Societies in New Zealand are making excellent progress under the able leadership of Mrs. Martha J. Wright, who is assisted by able counselors, a secretary, and eight board members, all of whom are Maoris. Hese far-away workers are very much interested in the annual report of the Relief Society, which was published in the May issue of the Magazine, and have sent to the General Board an expression of appreciation for the work of the organization and for the privilege of being members thereof. According to President Wright, no other factor is more potent in the New Zealand Mission than the Relief Society. Gunnison Stake. Regular weekly meetings were held in the Gunnison stake wards during the months of July and August, where special lessons outlined by the stake board were used. The subjects discussed were: July?Modern Revelation Essential, Doctrine and NOTES FROM THE FIELD 521 Covenants?Nature and Purpose; Obedience. August?Word of Wisdom, Tithing, Sabbath Day. The last meeting in August consisted of a social devoted to enlistment. Preceding this meeting it was the plan to visit every home in the stake and to extend a special invitation to those not members to join the organization. Cassia Stake. A very interesting pageant known as the Mother's Day Pageant, was given by the Cassia stake Relief Society on Mother's Day. The pageant was given in the opera house and the cast consisted of between 65 and 70 people. On the 24th of July the pageant 'Come, come, ye Saints" was presented by the Cassia stake at the city park. Very successful ward conferences have been held throughout the stake during the last few months, with varied programs. During the summer, the stake board members have devoted their spare time to replenishing the burial and temple clothes department.. Pioneer Stake. At the quarterly conference of Pioneer stake held Sunday, August 3, 1924, Mrs. Caroline S. Hyde was released as counselor to President Mary A. Cutler of the stake Relief Society. Mrs. Hyde left Salt Lake, June 6, 1924, with her husband, President Charles H. Hyde, who has been called to preside over the Australian mission. Mrs. Hyde will have charge of the Relief Society work of this mission. This is the second mission of President and Mrs. Hyde to Australia, as they presided there thirteen years ago. Mrs. Hyde has always been a faithful and earnest worker and her 
 counsel and advice have been appreciated by all with whom she served. Prior to her departure, the stake board held a testimonial for her at the home of Mrs. Emily C. Willey. A very pleasant afternoon was spent, and as a token of their esteem, Mrs. Hyde was presented with a leather traveling bag. Tahitian Mission, In the Papeete branch of the Tahitian mission, there is to be found a very active up-to-date Relief Society. The weekly meetings are conducted under the direction of the missionaries with the following local presidency, shown in the accompanying picture: Terai a Tefanau, president (center); Taumatagi a Mariteragi, first counselor (right); Katupu Tehina a Turoa, second counselor (left). The regular Relief Society outlines are used as far as possible. The work meeting is a real feature of the organization. Here quilts are made and baskets and bags are woven, all of which are sold and the funds used for the benefit of the sick and those in need. REORGANIZATIONS Rigby Stake. On April 13 the Rigby stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Elizabeth Hart, who had resigned as president, and her coworkers were honorably released with grateful appreciation for their faithful service, and new officers were installed. The Rigby stake Relief Society board gave a banquet and testimonial in honor NOTES FROM THE FIELD  523 of the out-going president, counselors and board members, Wednesday evening, June 29, in the amusement hall of the stake tabernacle. About fifty guests were seated at the banquet table. After partaking of the sumptuous banquet an interesting program was rendered during which a sketch of the lives of President Elizabeth J. Hart and Counselor Mary E. Call was read by Delia Bramwell. Mrs. Hart and Mrs. Call have been connected with the Rigby stake Relief Society for many years. Mrs. Hart was chosen second counselor in 1914, and Mrs. Call chosen treasurer when the stake was first organized in 1908. Attention was called to the fact that although Mrs. Hart has served only six years as president of the Rigby stake Relief Society, much constructive work has been accomplished in that time, and she, with her officers and board members, have been faithful and untiring workers. Rigby stake covers a large territory with Roberts ward fourteen miles to the west, Melba twenty miles on the east, and Palisade sixty miles away, and therefore a great deal of time has been spent by the stake officers in traveling about. At the close of the program Mrs. Lettie E. Call in a well chosen speech, presented each of the following officers with a handsome piece of silverware: Elizabeth J. Hart, Mary E. Call, Hannah Hatch, Mary Crystal, Adelaide Westerberg, Della Groom, Martha Ballantyne and Mary A. Nelson. The new executive officers are as follows: President, Lettie E. Call; first counselor, Phoebe Cordon; second counselor, Cora C. Burton; secretary-treasurer, Stella F. Brossard.
To My Son and Daughter
By Claire Stewart Boyer
She has the world at her feet, my son, But you have the world in your hands; Fearfully silent she dreams and hopes, But you are the one who demands.
She gazes at life with a wondering eye, Scarcely daring to ask for its joy; You reap in the harvests that lie in your path And command life to give you much more.
You sweep through the ages the strength and the force, 'Tis your glory to get and to give,? But 'tis she, with her prayers and her dreams and her love, Who can tell you, my son, how to live.