[Vol42 | January 1955 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
[Literature: Adam Bede by George Eliot (Mary Ann Evans) Briant S. Jacobs]

We can safely conclude that the scene, texture, movement, and at least some of the main characters are autobiographical. And with what loving care does she handle each character or family group as she plucks them 61 out of her memory-bag and on her page draws them into life. But often, in life as in literature, it is in those unspectacular, routine days of leisurely, serene contentment when nothing "happens" worthy of entry in a diary or newspaper that the most sustaining essences of the good life are to be found. If we might accept this last statement as her purpose in writing the warm, gentle, meandering introduction, then we see how closely the ponderous, yet delightful movement of this first section matches her idea. Country life is beautiful, quiet, healthy, vigorous, and good. So, then, are the characters who live in the scenes she portrays. While the book is named for Adam Bede, while Mrs. Poyser ls the earthy, truth-speaking comic character; and the central tragic figure is Hetty and her betrayal into child-murder, the heart of the story lies within the community as a collective, mutually sustaining unit. George Eliot takes us to dairies, farms, birthdays, weddings, carpenter shops, schoolrooms, and _ the open fields so that we may see the individual members of the wholeness that is Hayslope Village. Her peaceful, contented pace is dominant from the first page: The afternoon sun was warm on the five workmen there, busy upon doors and window-frame, and wainscoting. A scent of pine-wood from a_ tent-like pile of planks outside the open door mingled itself with the scent of the elder-bushes which were spreading their summer snow close to the open window opposite; the slanting sunbeams shone through the transparent shavings that flew before the steady plane, and lit up the fine grain of the oak panelling. On a heap of those soft shavings a rough, grey shepherd-dog 62 had made himself a pleasant bed, and was lying with his nose between his fore-paws, occasionally wrinkling his brows to cast a glance at the tallest of the five workmen A panoramic view of the countryside near Hayslope again details in real, living tones the pastoral peace of this "pleasant land": High up against the horizon were the huge conical masses of hill, like giant mounds intended to fortify this region of comm and grass against the keen and hungry winds of the north; not distant enough to be clothed in purple mystery, but with sombre greenish sides visibly specked with sheep, whose motion was only revealed by memory, not