[Vol42 | January 1955 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Fiction | Title: New]
[New Serial "Green Willows" to Begin in February]

BUCK, Nobel and Pulitzer prize winner in the field of literature, and' member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, has written her life story in a new autobiography, My Several Worlds. She relates the humorous and tragic happenings of her many vears in China, and of her adjustments to American life. In the 1930 oa Page 29 —— VOL. 42 DITORIAL c~2Y JANUARY 1955 Mlorning and the New Year ae (Psalms 5:3), THE coming of the New Year means a new beginning for all of us. No matter where we may stand in the journey between our past and our future, the coming of another year brings fresh opportunity, brighter vision, and opens the door to accomplishment. The New Year is like morning, when the way to unknown treasures is opened, when the pathway lies unmarred before us. It is the time in which the Lord has given us another chance to prove ourselves worthy of his metcies which "are new every morning." Many of our activities, our ideals, and our aspirations partake of the spaciousness of the New Year and of the measure of morning. Suppose we are to take a journey, perhaps to a place we have never seen before, the sea, or the mountains, or to another city. A journey is traveling into a new experience. And even if it be a journey toa familiar place, there may have been changes in the land, or it may be another season. Always, too, we may meet strangers who can lift our spirits, oF people who need to walk briefly with us to see some inviting aspect of life which we can reveal to them. All journeys, neat and far, are new in their significance — they are new, like the year and the morning. Meeting a new friend, or one who is to become a friend, has the possiPage 30 in the morning will I direct my prayers unto thee, and will look up" bilities of giving us new growth of the spirit and an entrance into the beauty and strength of another personality. It is our opportunity to bestow something of our own perspective upon one who may have been looking upon life from a different point of view. A new friendship may be the threshold of new pleasure and new illumination. Even more humble activities are as a journey into the delightful unknown, A woman's day ls often composed of a series of exhilarating experiences. Prosaic tasks may assume great expectancy and promise, if they are performed with a feching of adventure and anticipation. The whir of a sewing machine in making a little girl's dress, the further stitches in needlepoint, even the matching 0. Colors and shapes in patches for mending—these are small adventures, but they may be tributary to the satisfying wholeness of homemaking. Expectancy and anticipation prevail in the challenging efforts of re-decorating a home—new color on the walls, the harmony of tints and tones in rugs and draperies, a kitchen cheerful all over again in a different decoration. Even so familiar an act as to open a book may partake of the nature of regeneration. Not long ago an elderly woman opened the Bible and turned to the Book of Psalms. Her EDITORIAL scriptural reading, for the most part, had been confined to the New Testament, and she had not experienced for sometime the lofty language and the noble thoughts of the Psalms. She turned the pages teverently and said, "To me, this is a new thing." 'To her there was the presence of morning and the clement of discovery. In the sacred pages. She read also Psalm 102, which describes the beauties of Zion, "For thy servants take pleasure in her stones, and favour the dust thereof." And the elderly woman had found words which expressed her deep thoughts, for she had so long loved her own humble home and the encircling land, even so much that she had loved its stones and dust. But never before 31 had she found the right words for so deep a realization. Any great and good book gives to us the spirit of newness and of morning. The most precious of all new treasures given to women are the children, lovely as morning, and having within them infinite possibilities, which mothers may help to develop along the wide pathways of life's responsibilities and joys and achievements. The year is new, and it is the time of morning, a time of closeness between the heavens and the earth. "For lo, he that formeth the mountains, and createth the wind... That maketh the morning... And treadeth upon the high places of the earth, The Lord is his name" (Amos 4:3). —V. P. C.