[Vol42 | January 1955 | Sequence: 41 | Category: Poem | Title: Back Fence Neighbors Christie]
Clayton,  50;  "The  Difference,"  by  Ing  Smith,  57;  "On  Measuring,"  by  Mabel  Jones  Gabbott,  71; 
"New  Years  Prayer,"  by  Vesta  N.  Lukei,  71;  "Back  Fence  Neighbors,"  by  Christie  Lund 
Coles,  71;  "Playtime  Is  Over,"  by  Ivy  Houtz  WooUey,  72. 
PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  BY  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIElF  SOCIETY 
Editorial  and  Business  Offices:  40  North  Main,  Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah,  Phone  4-2511;  Sub- 
scriptions 246;  Editorial  Dept.  245.  Subscription  Price:  $1.50  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year; 
payable  in  advance.  Single  copy,  15c.  The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No 
back  numbers  can  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report  change 
of  address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new  address. 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under 
the  Act  of  March  8,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in 
section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned 
unless  return  postage  is  enclosed.  Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only. 
The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts. 

Qjrora    1 1 ear  an a  Sfc ar 
I  have  been  a  subscriber  to  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine  for  more  than  thirty- 
five  years,  and  had  access  to  the  Wom- 
an's Exponent  when  my  mother  was  a 
Rehef  Society  president. 
— Mrs.  Arthur  Eskelsen 
Midvale,  Utah 
I  have  been  sent  to  the  hospital  so 
much,  and  when  I  would  come  out  they 
would  send  me  to  a  different  place.  I  am 
a  shut-in,  seventy-eight  years  old,  and  I 
haven't  walked  a  step  alone  for  seven 
years.  I  have  a  cane,  and  a  nurse  has  to 
hold  me  while  I  move  my  limbs.  I  love 
the  Magazine  to  read  to  keep  my  mind 
off  the  rain  clouds  and  the  war  clouds. 
I  have  taken  the  Magazine  every  year  but 
one  since  1921.  I  feel  like  I  ought  to 
take  the  Magazine,  because  my  father's 
aunt,  Jane  Snyder  Richards,  years  ago, 
was  an  officer  in  Relief  Society.  I  have 
been  in  her  house  a  lot  of  times. 
— Laura  M.  Atwood 
St.  Helens,  Oregon 
I  enjoy  the  poetry  and  stories  in  the 
Magazine  very  much,  as  well  as  every- 
thing else  ....  I  don't  know  of  another 
place  we  could  get  literature  that  would 
compare  with  it.  I  always  especially  en- 
joy the  "From  Near  and  Far"  and  "Notes 
From  the  Field"  departments.  I  watch 
them  closely  to  see  if  any  of  my  old 
friends  from  the  "Y"  might  be  there. 
— Peggy  J.  Hardin 
Kermit,  Texas 
I  enjoy  our  Magazine  very  much.  I 
have  a  friend  I  let  read  my  Magazine,  and
