[Vol42 | January 1955 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Fiction | Title: Grandmas | Author: Martineau]
[Grandma's Responsibility _ Mary C. Martineau]
and  so  it  was  as  the  days  went  by. 
Jimmy  found  his  way  to  Grandma's 
house  again  and  to  Grandma's  cook- 
ie jar  again  and  again.  Jimmy 
smiled  at  Grandma  and  Grandma 
smiled  at  Jimmy. 
And  that  might  have  been  the 
last  of  it,  if  the  telephone  hadn't 
rung  so  wildly  late  one  night.  When 
Grandma  said  "Hello,"  a  vexed 
voice  said  loudly,  "Mrs.  Gray,  I 
wish  you'd  come  over  in  the  morn- 
ing and  get  your  cat.  We  can't 
have  our  bedroom  window  up  be- 
cause he  keeps  jumping  in  to  find 
our  children.  He  adopted  our  chil- 
dren when  your  daughter's  family 
was  away.  They  used  to  live  in  this 
house  once  you  know.  I'm  sick 
and  tired  of  this  cat." 
"Oh,  thank  you  for  calling  me," 
said  Grandma  happily.  "I  will  be 
right  over  in  the  morning." 
Next  morning,  Jimmy  went  with 
Grandma  to  get  Puff,  for  it  was  he 
all  right. 
"Grandma,  may  I  carry  him?" 
asked  Jimmy,  as  they  were  return- 
ing triumphantly  with  their  prec- 
ious burden. 
"Yes,  Jimmy,"  said  Grandma, 
lovingly  placing  the  big  gray  and 
white  cat  in  Jimmy's  eager  little 
arms.  "He  is  yours  to  have  and  to 
hold." 
Hew  Serial     (^reen    V(yuiows     to    iJO 
egin  in 
3reh 
ruary 
\  new  serial,  "Green  Willows,"  by  Deone  R.  Sutherland,  will  begin  in  the  February 
-^^  issue  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine.  This  entertaining  and  realistic  story  nar- 
rates the  adventures  of  Lillian  and  Pat,  two  young  friends  who  complicate  and  help  to 
straighten  out  the  problems  of  Pat's  three  unmarried  aunts:  Agnes,  Margaret,  and  Karen. 
Mrs.  Sutherland,  a  daughter  of  George  Cecil  Robinson  and  Linnie  Fisher  Robinson 
of  Magna,  Utah,  is  a  young  wife  and  mother  of  two  sons,  who  now  lives  in  San  Fran- 
cisco, California,  where  her  husband,  a  doctor,  is  serving  his  internship.  Seven  short 
stories  and  a  serial  by  Mrs.  Sutherland  have  appeared  in  The  Relief  Society  Magazine 
since  1948.

mi unosa S 
ggs 
Courtesy  National  Cotton  Council 
6  eggs 
2  packages  frozen  spinach 
3  tablespoons  shortening 
2  tablespoons  flour 
2  cups  hot  milk 
Yz   cup  shredded  cheese 
salt  and  pepper 
2  tablespoons  shortening 
Hard  cook  eggs.  While  eggs  cook,  cook  spinach  according  to  directions  on  pack- 
age. Make  cheese  sauce  by  melting  shortening  in  top  of  double  boiler  over  hot  water. 
Stir  in  flour.  Add  hot  milk  gradually,  stirring  constantly.  When  thickened,  add  cheese, 
stirring  to  melt  cheese.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cover  and  keep  sauce 
hot.  When  eggs  are  done,  run  cold  water  over  them.  Shell.  Cut  eggs  crosswise 
into  halves.  Remove  yolks.  Slice  whites  thin  and  add  to  cheese  sauce,  reserving  a 
few  slices  for  garnishing,  if  desired.  Drain  spinach,  add  2  tablespoons  melted  short- 
ening. Arrange  in  well-greased  shallow  baking  dish  or  in  individual  bakers.  Pour 
cheese-egg  sauce  over  spinach,  letting  spinach  show  at  edges.  Press  yolks  through  sieve, 
making  a  mound  of  yolk  on  top  of  each  serving.  Set  under  broiler  for  2  or  3  minutes, 
keeping  dish  at  least  3  inches  from  heat.  Serve  with  corn  muffins  and  crisp  relishes. 
(Makes  6  servings) 
Page  37

cJhere  Us  a  cJime  for  cJormality^ 
Helen  S.  Williams 
'THHERE  are  certain  places  and  special  occasions  where  formal  elegance  of  floral  ar- 
■■•     rangements  must  be  used.  The  table  pictured  opposite  is  a  perfect  example  of  formal- 
ity at  its  loveliest.  This  table  was  originated  and  executed  by  Florence  Williams  for  an 
afternoon  reception  where  approximately  2,000  people  attended. 
The  table  was  set  in  a  spacious  room  with  high  ceilings.  The  walls  and  draperies 
were  a  soft  sage  green — a  perfect  setting  for  the  colors  and  flowers  used.  Of  course  the 
table  had  to  be  scaled  to  the  size  of  the  room,  and  it  had  to  be  beautiful  from  all 
angles,  for  there  were  those  who  were  seated,  and  those  who  stood  to  be  served,  and 
there  were  many  who  viewed  it  from  a  distance. 
Had  the  table  or  its  appointments  been  too  small  or  less  sensational,  the  effective- 
ness of  its  beauty  and  color  would  have  been  lost  completely  in  the  magnitude  of  the 
surroundings. 
To  do  unusual,  beautiful  tables  Florence  Williams  dares  to  be  dramatic  and  com- 
pletely original.  One  rarely  forgets  the  table  decorations  which  she  does  because  they 
are  never  ordinary. 
For  this  table  she  decided  to  use  a  beautiful  old  Paisley  shawl  for  her  tablecloth. 
The  shawl  belonged  to  her  husband's  mother.  It  had  never  been  used,  and  for  years 
had  been  wrapped  in  tissue  for  safekeeping.  Safekeeping  for  what?  thought  Florence. 
Here  was  a  precious  old  heirloom  five  yards  long  which  would  be  perfect  for  this  special 
occasion.  The  center  of  the  shawl  was  a  bold,  daring  black.  It  would  be  a  perfect 
background  for  golden  flowers,  brass  bowls,  massive  candelabra,  and  tall,  tapering  candles. 
The  border  of  the  shawl  combined  all  the  glorious  shades  of  autumn.  The  rich 
golds,  copper,  and  brass  colors,  the  reds  and  the  yellows  that  blanket  our  hills  and 
mountains  when  the  first  frost  touches  them  in  the  fall,  this  lovely  old  heirloom  had 
captured  in  its  woven  border.  All  these  warm,  deep  colors  of  Indian  summer  gave  a 
richness  and  elegance  to  the  table. 
With  the  Paisley  shawl  as  the  basic  note  for  the  table,  Mrs.  Williams  had  a 
startling  and  unusual  setting  for  the  magnificent  centerpiece.  As  you  see,  the  flowers 
were  arranged  in  a  half-circle  design.  This  half-circle  design  is  basically  excellent  when 
using  a  large  or  massive  centerpiece  on  a  long  table,  and  it  is  particularly  good  when 
used  in  a  raised  or  footed  container.  The  length  of  the  rhythmic  line  was  extended 
from  the  focal  point  of  the  raised  Cupid.  This  gave  a  harmonious  feeling  of  flowing 
rhythm  and  balance  for  the  long  table  and  large  room. 
The  container  was  an  old-fashioned  brass  jardiniere,  polished  to  dazzling  bright- 
ness. It  had  been  turned  upside  down,  and  on  top  of  it  rested  a  great  flat  brass  bowl. 
This  was  filled  with  a  solid  mass  of  flowers — yellow  daffodils.  These  daffodils  were 
bordered  with  daisies  that  had  been  dyed  in  colors  to  repeat  the  border  of  grandmother's 
Paisley  shawl.  Shimmering  green  magnolia  leaves  framed  the  round  bowl  and  blended 
into  the  soft  greens  of  the  surrounding  draperies.  Then  the  brass  Cupid,  holding  a 
ivw  flowers,  topped  the  entire  floral  design  and  kept  the  table  in  perfect  proportion. 
It  was  a  picture  of  harmonious  colors — the  black  cloth,  the  brass  container,  the  yellow 
and  rust  flowers,  and  the  Paisley  border. 
Florence  filled  the  big  brass  bowl  with  twigs  and  stems,  then  covered  the  greens 
with  fine  chicken  wire.  This  made  a  firm,  solid  container  to  hold  the  flowers  in  posi- 
tion. The  daffodils  had  been  cut  to  about  two-inch  stems.  This  was  the  depth  of 
the  bowl. 
Poge  38
