[Vol42 | January 1955 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Wallflower | Author: Bailey]
[Wallflower — First Prize Story Alice Morrey Bailey]

She made one last, desperate effort at WALLFLOWER composure when they looked up in surprise at her coming home so early, and alone. It had been arranged for Daddy to pick her up at 10:30. "How was the dance, baby?" her father asked. "Fine! Just fine!" Mary Ellen said brightly, but her voice came out high and brittle. "What's the — matter, dear?" Mother asked. "What went wrong?" 'Nothing! Everything was just..." she began, but in her mind Johnny Ray was singing "Let Your Hair Down and Cry," and she did. "... Was just horrible," she flung back over her shoulder, as she raced to throw herself on her bed. Her mother followed and tried to talk through her anguish, asking questions until she had pieced out most of the story, even the part about asking Jerry to dance. "I don't think that was shameful, Mary Ellen," her mother said. "I think it was a generous impulse that came straight from a kind heart." "Kind hearts aren't popular any more, Mother. You just don't understand." "T understand more than you think, dear. I've been through all this myself, when I was your age." "Things were different then." "No, this is just a phase." "Oh!" groaned Mary Ellen, unable to bear more, and broke into fresh sobbing. "Pll never go to another dance. Never, in my whole life," she said wretchedly. "Not even the Teen Green?" Mary Ellen hesitated. The 'Teen Gold and V7 Gold and Green was the high point of the year, but she had driven her stakes. '""No," she said. AS the days wore on, though, and the girls talked of the coming dance, Mary Ellen thought wistfully and sadly of it. In unguarded moments she wanted to go, but she had only to think of the last dance to change her mind. "Mother, would it be all right if I go to a show on that night?" "Which night, darling?" "The night of the Gold and Green?" "It don't know. I'll think about it," her mother answered absently. That had always meant consent before, but somehow Mary Ellen felt vaguely disappointed. It was almost as if she had asked, instead: "Mother, is there the least little hope that I will go to the Gold and Green?" and her mother had said "No." It didn't help matters to talk to Jerry. He was wheeling past on his bike, but he pulled up short when he saw her. "Hi, Mary Ellen." "Hi, Jerry." "You going to the dance?" "t don't think so," Mary Ellen told him. "Gee whiz! I'm going." "Are you, Jerry?" "You bet! I'm going to be the best dancer around. And when I am, I'm not going to dance with Geneva Anne—evet." With that he cut a figure eight on his bicycle and rode off. He hadn't said a word about her asking him to dance, but Mary Ellen felt as if he had made a kind of apology. You ought to go. 18 Anyhow, he had been friendly, as if the terrible thing had never happened, so he must not absolutely despise her. Maybe it was a phase, as Mother said, and if you didn't keep going and keep trying, you never would dance. Mary Ellen began to be sorry she had said she wouldn't go, but it was too late now. Besides, she didn't have anything to wear. All the other girls were getting their first formals. It made her feel like an orphan. Maybe she was an orphan, and Richard and Mildred Field were not her parents at all. She could almost hear them talking in some dim past. "Look, Milly. Someone has left a baby on our doorstep." "Oh, how awful! Whatever shall we do with it?" "I don't know. Maybe we should keep it. Somebody has to take care of the poor little unwanted thing." Perhaps she was an orphan, a sort of stepchild. It might explain certain things—lack of understanding of her problems—lack of interest, like her mother looking directly at her while she related the craziest, most hilarious goings-on at school, and then not laughing, but saying instead something like, "Did you remember to buy bread at the grocery store?" Anyone could tell Belva Jean's parents were real, her father dancing with her, her mother making her brothers dance with her. ARY Ellen was even more sorry she had taken such a definite stand when her father brought her the silver sandals and the taffeta dress. It was her first real date dress—pink, ballerina length, scalloped at neck and hem, with rhineRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 stones dotted here and there like shimmering drops of dew on rose petals. Rhinestones crusted the straps of the silver sandals, and the little silver handbag which was tucked in the folds of the dress. It took the utmost self-control for Mary Ellen to keep from shouting, screaming, or swooning at their beauty. She reached toward them, but drew back. If she so much as touched a little finger to them, all her defenses would crumble, and she would go to the dance. It would be twenty times as horrible to sit on an empty bench wearing these, for then she could no longer pretend she had just dropped in to look at the dancers, or that she was only casually interested. 'The girls' anno took place in her imagination. "Look at Mary Ellen—all dressed up and no place to go." "Poor thing! She must have had some fantastic notion somcone would ask her to dance." "How fantastic!" "How utterly fan Mary Ellen sensed, rather than saw her father's face in an agony of waiting. She drew a deep breath and recovered her composure. "Daddy, it is very exquisite, the most exquisite I have ever seen." Still he was waiting, so she floundered, "Of course they aren't exactly what I would have bought for myself. Still, I would wear them, if I were going to the dance." It was then her father's face fell, but her mother's cool voice cut in over her head. "Pm sure we can return them, Rich, and no harm done. Mary EIlen doesn't want to go to the dance, and I don't blame her one bit." >? WALLFLOWER ARY Ellen caught her breath. She had been braced for argument if anyone tried to make her go, but she hadn't meant to go that far—to return the beautiful clothes. Mothers should better understand the desires of a daughter's heart. No doubt true mothers did. "Swing around, swing around...' Daddy sang suddenly, turning up the radio and starting to dance. "Come on, Millie." He grabbed Mary Ellen's mother and danced her around the living room. Mother laughed and_protested, and finally disengaged herself. "Such goings on, and me with supper to get," she said.