[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | December | Issue: 14 | Title: Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting. | Author: Unknown]

LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. 

	Minutes of Oct. 14, 1898, Counselor E.
J. Stevenson presiding. Singing “Come
hither all ye weary souls.” Prayer by Sis-
ter J. C. Howe. Singing “Glorious things
are sung of Zion.” Minutes read and ap-
proved.
	Sister Stevenson made opening remarks,
exhorted the sisters not to follow the fash-
ions of the world and gave good counsel.
	Sisters H. M. Wright, Ellen Barton and
another sister, also Sister Black, each bore 
good testimonies of the truth and regarding
experiences in their own lives.
	Sister Mary A Freeze spoke of the good
instruction she had received from Sister
Eliza, Sister Zina and others. Sister Eliza
had told the sisters not to pray to the Lord
to have their trials removed, but ask Him
to give them faith to live above them.
	Sister Brixen had just returned from a
trip to the old country, her native land. 
When she was away she thought of her sis-
ters here at home in Zion. She visited two


[Column 1]
branches of the Relief Society over there
and told them of our meetings and the
unity among the women here. Many of
them were anxious to emigrate. Sister
Brixen felt these meetings had prepared her
to understand the Gospel that she might be
able to instruct her dear sisters in foreign
lands, she thought every sister should be
interested in Relief Society work.
	President Elmina S. Taylor felt thankful
for our aged sisters, and that she had been
privileged to associate with them. Spoke
of the trials she passed through because of
the opposition of her family in joining the
Church, but there was nothing on earth to
tempt her to deny her religion, wondered
how many would fall by the wayside, she
could see that many were departing from
the truth but prayed that all present would
be preserved faithful.
	Sister M. A. Hardy expressed her grati-
tude, was glad she remained faithful, had a
strong testimony to bear.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde had a testimony of
the work of God, had always been associated
with Sister Young and other good and
noble sisters, it had been a trial to her to
assist in the work of the society, but she
was thankful she had accepted the position
she now held and knew it had benefited her.
	Sister M. O. Brown thought it was easier
for some to remain faithful than others.
The Gospel principles seemed familiar
when she first heard them, felt it was beau-
tiful, every family ought to be interested.
	Another sister gave her experience and
related incidents of a visit to relatives in
Canada.
	Counselor Stevenson said the Lord had
opened the way and she had got some
genealogy of her family. Gave good ad-
vice to all present, exhorting them to be
faithful.
	Singing, Doxology. Adjourned for two
weeks. Benediction by Sister Alder.

	Minutes of Oct. 29, 1898, President M.
I. Horne presiding. Singing “O, say what
is truth.” Prayer by Counselor Webb.
Singing “Who are these arrayed in white?”
	The president alluded to the organization
that led to these meetings and believed
President Young was inspired of the Lord,
realized that He preserved His children and
those who trusted in Him from the world
and its turmoil. We must acknowledge
His hand in all things and seek for wisdom,
knowledge and discernment. These are
the days of proving and days of temptation.
Let us set an example worthy of imitation,
be firm, steadfast and watchful that Satan
may not deceive us. Those around us can-
not take the spirit of God from us if we are
in possession of it by obedience. Now that
winter is coming she wanted the presidents
to look after the poor and see what they
need.
	Counselor B. W. Smith spoke upon the
necessity of being true and faithful, and to
teach our children to be honest and virtu-
ous so they can resist temptation. Sister
Smith had selected an article to read in the
meeting, Sister Hyde read it, it was a de-
scription of the deplorable condition of the
morals of the world, and how incompetent
religious denominations were to cope with
the existing evils. A prophecy was next
read of the Prophet Joseph Smith’s in re-
gard to war.
	Counselor Webb said, “We cannot be too
humble and charitable, we must set a good
example and be careful of little things,
visit and comfort the sick and exercise faith

[Column 2]
and it will be a blessing to ourselves and
others to whom we minister.”
	Sisters Rawlins, Nuttall and Morris each
bore excellent testimonies and made excel-
lent remarks on interesting subjects.
	Counselor Stevenson said it is one of the
commandments given to the Saints to meet
together often, and we should teach our
children the principles of the Gospel and
prepare them for life; also spoke urgently
of the work in the Temple, which was a
blessing to the living and the dead.
	Sisters Leaker and Wright, Nellie Taylor
and Julia Woolley spoke of the goodness of
God and the blessings of the Gospel and
testimony of the truth, and President Horne
read a letter from Brother Bassett about
teaching singing to the Relief Society and
asked for the vote of those who would join
a class in singing; but the sisters did not
feel they could at present. She also wished
some of the sisters to visit Dr. Robert’s
nursing class.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks by
singing “We thank Thee O, God for a
prophet.” Benediction by Sister L. D. Alder.
