[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | December | Issue: 14 | Title: POLITICS. | Author: Unknown]

POLITICS.

	Politics! Politics!! Party! Party!! Party
politics, till one’s soul is sick of the words
and all their paltry meanings! The parti-
sans of every party plow the whole field of
history, past, present and to come, for roots
of laudation of their party. According
to them every blessing which ever did,
does now, or ever will, descend like rain on
the just and the unjust, from a famine in
India or the sinking of a hostile fleet, to six-
teen chickens at one hatch, is directly trac-
able to the wisdom, forethought and phil-
anthropy of Our Party; and all the ills of
life from a cyclone or a labor strike to old
Brindle dead in the lucern patch, or a sliver
under your thumb nail, was just as surely 
caused by the ignorance, greed and general
mismanagement of Your Party.
	When one party puts a name at its head
that bristles with as many serpents of men-
ace as the head of Medusa, and you talk of
scratching it off, what an outcry is raised
about “going against the party.”
	When two equally good and efficient men
are named on different tickets for one office,
and you choose to take into consideration
some difference—we will say in physical
strength or financial circumctances, to
favor the less fortunate, you raise another
hullabaloo about “damaging the party!”
I say “To Blazes with party” if it makes
slaves of the voters.
	In the present campaign scarcely a wo-
man’s name appears on any ticket. Since
woman’s citizenship is part of the State
Constitution, and since women are human,
they ought to participate in the privileges
as well as penalties of humanity. Canvas-
sers have been very active in calling at the
homes of the voters to inquire if they were
duly registered, and to recommend either
self of self’s party to your kind considera-
tion.
	You perhaps take the liberty to ask if
there was no woman in that or any other
party who could be trusted to fill that or
any other office. Some professed to be as
much at a loss as the questioner, and some
indulged in wild guesses.
	After carefully sifting the bushel of chaff
you find at the bottom a single grain of—
smut, which says “A woman’s name weak-


[Column 1]
ens the party ticket, because—because—the
women voters will not vote for a woman.”
	Fellow women, is this contemptible thing
true? or is it only a dingy veil used to
screen the faces of the men voters who will
not vote for a woman?
	If it is true let us begin down at a b c,
and organize little Civil Government classes
and study the Declaration of Independence,
the Constitution of the United States, and
the condition of society and of the country
at the time these documents were framed.
As we advance we might brush up on the
Salic Law the Common Law and give spec-
ial attention to such points, as Marriage
Laws, Guardianship of Minors, Inheritance,
The Widow’s Incumbrance, and many
shining spots where light is to be obtained.
As side studies we might look into some of
the procedures of the Courts of Common
Pleas and learn by eye and ear witness how
the laws materialize in practice; and if, after
completing the course in these branches of
education, we still decline to vote for wo-
men, our case is hopeless; and our masters
should pierce our ears with awls against the
doorposts, that we may remain their ser-
vants forever.
	If it is not true that we prefer in all
cases to vote for men, if the clean sweep of
women’s names from all the tickets is only
a selfish grab of our brothers at the “hon-
ors and emoluments” of public duty, we
should express our displeasure in plain, un-
equivocal terms, and see that it does not
happen another time.
	One canvasser whom I asked concerning
this matter said, “All those men offered
themselves for those places and women did
not. I think that is the way it happened.
People must ask for what they want in this
world.”
	“Is that not branding us a nation of
office seekers?” I asked. “Well, yes, that’s
about the size of it,” he replied.
	Fellow citizens, is this true? Are we a
nation of office seekers? Is there no other
and better way of distributing public trusts
than placing them in the keeping of men or
women who importune for them? Is our
political maxim “To the victor belong the
spoils?” Where then is patriotism? Dead
or only sleeping?
	Oh, that we could be patriots without be-
ing partisans, and that principles of pure
right, not time-serving policy, could be the
mainspring of our actions, private and pub-
lic! Would we could hear more about the
general weal of our whole country, and less
about the East and the West; more about
developing the grand resources, and less
about “Corners and Giant Trusts;” more
about prosperous rural communities, and
less about millionaires.
	Would that the poor might receive such
aid and favor as would lift them out of their
misery, rather than be given additional bur-
dens of taxation and the necessity of paying
“protected” prices for the necessaries of
life. Would that “protection” would pro-
tect the weak as well as the strong, the con-
sumer as well as the producer.
	If protection be the great beneficence we
are told, then give us plenty of it, that our
crying needs may be satisfied. Why should
not timber, water, coal etc., as well as land
belong to the general government as trustee
in trust for the public? They are all mat-
ters of general and urgent necessity, and
monopoly by the few against the many
should be made impossible.
	Why should not railroads, banks and all

[Column 2]
other public service, as well as postal ser-
vice, be taken in charge by general and
municipal government, for the benefit of
the public? Such protection would pro-
tect alike the great and the small.
	Until some such desirable ends have been
accomplished let no man boast overmuch of
his party; and as for one small unit of the
body politic, Yours Truly will belong to
no party. Thus I close the door against
the temptation to become an office seeker;
and if I honor and choose to vote for Frank
J. Cannon because he had the courage to
draw back from that protection which pro
tects “only the favored few,” no party
lash can be laid on me for doing so. If I
choose to scratch the name of some candi-
date whose private character is immoral, no
one can say me nay. If I choose to vote
for a woman, I reserve the right to do so.
	Rather than be a party hack, I will be
written down to the end of the chapter,
