[Vol33 | July 1946 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Opportunities at Brigham McDonald]

One does
OPPORTUNITIES AT BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY 437 438 not have to defend himself in discussions or stand up for his beliefs as often as in other states. Therefore, many Jack 2 good knowledge of the gospel, something which every Latter-day Saint should have. Attending Brigham Young University has been an experience which I shall never forget. I only wish that I could thank all those who have been responsible for it. Moana Ballif from Provo, Utah, says: I came to Brigham Young University because: First, I believe the gospel of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and I had a keen desire to be in a school where my education would be guided by the standards it teaches. I wanted to come to a university which was founded and developed so that young people could learn their religion while they were learning other facts in other fields. Second, I wanted to live at home while I got my education. The adjustment to college life is difficult enough without having to adjust to a completely new home environment and living habits. The advantages of living at home with sympathetic and understanding parents are many and varied, and constitute a very valid reason for staying at home for my college education. Third, it is doubtful if there is any other campus in the world where a person can associate with people of uniform backgrounds who have been taught a recognition of the value of high moral codes. I believed that here at B. Y. U. I could find students with whom I would be proud to associate and from whom I could select friends and companions. Fourth, I believed that here on this campus I could find men and women expertly trained and brilliant in their fields under whom I could study. Here, education was for the asking only, and with a little effort on my part I could come as near the ultimate in cultural education as anywhere in the United States. Here, I could find a philosophy and an education within my grasp. Here, I could study with professors who could lift me into the realms somewhere near the stars.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY 1946
Fifth, I decided that here was a school rich in a tradition which I wanted to have. Here, social life was given consideration on the campus. And, most important, the social program was filled with activities of a high standard in which | could participate and enjoy without being forced to decide between lowering, my standards or ignoring social life. Sixth, and finally, this was a school that I could help to build. It was a growing school on_ the road to unlimited development.
Here was an institution dedicated to the principle of eternal progression, and, I thought, with all humility, that maybe I, too, could add a little bit to that pathway of eternal progression. I wanted to be one of the students who made positive the work of the men who founded this university with faith that others in the world might see our good works and realize the value of the gospel and what it means. Edith Russell, from London, England, writes: Oxford ? remote and unassailable.
Study laborious striving to understand the obscure; without help, save that of prayer; without purpose, save that of self-vindication. A dread of ignorance and a passionate urge to emulate greatness.
Absurd longings.
Futile counting of pennies to buy the printed heritage of other men's brains. And then, democracy spilling over the ramparts of America, invading English shores. Opportunity. The distant University of Brigham Young opening wide its doors. Incredible. The consummate understanding and provision of God. 1 love it all; the quiet symphony of the great library; the muted music of struggle and achievement; the solemn tenor of slow-moving minds and the stimulating lilt of eager brains. And here, too, one may estimate with clearer eyes the noble heritage to which he is heir; feel the weight of it; experience the thrill of it; somewhere find the courage to accept it; and apply himself, vigorously, to carry it in his own two hands and lay it like balm on the wounds of the world.