[Vol33 | July 1946 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: The Settlement of Jensen]
Faith and perseverance characterized the people in this great undertaking. The saints donated liberally of their scanty funds and work on the temple was donated freely, following the advice of Brigham Young when he said to the bishops: "Now bishops,  if any person should inquire what wages are to be paid for work done on this temple, let the answer be 'Not one cent.''"" From the unbroken terrain was hewn the oolite to build the edifice and the protecting wall. The best the people had to give in skill and industry was put into this great temple, and in eleven years it was completed. On the spring morning of May 20, 1888, the dedicatory services began. 'These services were repeated on the three following days in order to accommodate the many saints who desired to attend the sacred dedication.
Although schools were established as soon as possible after the settlements were founded, and, during the winter months, men and women gifted in the art of teaching were called, or, by choice, acted as teachers, the early days in Sanpete Valley did not provide many educational opportunities. President Canute Peterson and other community leaders felt that there was a great need among the people for a school which would provide training beyond the grammar grades. The pioneers believed that their children should have educational advantages near their homes so that they might become leaders in their own communities. In 1888, the Sanpete Stake Academy was established at Ephraim, and, although it was, in the beginning, a school comparable to our modem high schools, it served as an institution of higher learning. Not only did its students come from all over Sanpete County, but from other counties as well. The beginnings of this Academy were humble, but through faith and persistence the school prospered and grew, and
THE SETTLEMENT OF SANPETE VALLEY 445
Presidents of the Manti Temple: Daniel H. Wells, Anthon H. Lund, John D. La McAllister, Lewis Anderson, Robert D) Young, and Lewis R. Anderson. The enthusiasm and spirituality of its was erected and the old one torn students were sources of strength down. That broadened the horizon for the the enthusiasm and spirituality of its students were sources of strength that broadened the horizon for the people of the Valley. This college, originally a Latter-day Saint institution, is now a State-supported junior college, and stands as a monument to the vision and the determination oft hose early pioneers. Construction of a courthouse was begun in 1864. The original building consisted of one room, built of adobe, and plastered on the outside. In 1873, an additional room, built of stone, was added, and a porch built on the west side. Additional improvements were made later and the building was in constant use until 1937, when a new building was erected and the old one torn down. The first means of communication with the outside world, aside from trips made on horseback or by horse or oxen-drawn conveyances, came in December 1866, when the Deseret Telegraph Line was completed to Manti. This placed Sanpete in direct  communication with the capital city, and gave the farmers and stockmen valuable information on the prices of grain and cattle, thus advising them when to start by team or horseback to market their products.
