[Vol33 | July 1946 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Article | Title: Suggestions and Instructions on the Educational Program 1946-1947]
Suggestions  and  SJ^nstructions  on   the 
Kbaucational  [Program — iqj^G-j^j 
r^OURSES  for  the  coming  educa- 
tdonal  year,  1946-47,  October 
through  May,  are  as  follows: 
Theology  -  "Church  History" 
(Third  and  final  year). 
Visiting  Teachers'  Messages  — 
"Our  Pioneer  Heritage:  Pioneer 
Virtues." 
Sewing— A  course  in  the  funda- 
mentals of  sewing,  optional  for  use 
by  wards  and  branches.  (See  "Notes 
to  the  Field,"  page  450  of  this  is- 
sue of  the  Magazine  for  instructions 
to  Relief  Society  officers.) 
Literature— "America  as  Revealed 
in  Its  Literature." 
Optional  Lessons  in  Lieu  of  Liter- 
ature- "The  Gospel  as  a  Way  of 
Life."  (Instructions  concerning  the 
selection  of  one  or  the  other  of  these 
two  courses  for  the  third  Tuesday  of 
each  month  may  be  found  in  "Notes 
to  the  Field,"  page  450  of  this  issue 
of  the  Magazine.) 
Social  Science— "The  Family  in 
the  Gospel  Plan." 
The  aim  of  the  courses  to  be  giv- 
en in  Relief  Society  during  the  sea- 
son 1946-47  is  to  make  Relief  Society 
members  better  Latter-day  Saints, 
better  mothers,  and  better  citizens; 
and  thus  to  strengthen  the  Latter-day 
Saint  home.  In  order  to  accomplish 
these  purposes,  the  General  Board 
Page  472 
presents  lessons  on  Church  doctrine; 
lessons  in  literature  to  interpret 
America  as  a  land  of  freedom,  call- 
ing attention  to  the  need  of  uphold- 
ing the  Constitution  of  our  land; 
lessons  on  fundamental  concepts  of 
Latter^lay  Saint  family  life;  and 
simple  lessons  on  sewing. 
The  General  Board  feels  that  the 
diligent  study  of  these  various  cours- 
es will  give  to  Relief  Society  mem- 
bers a  well-rounded  development  in 
matters  essential  to  Latter-day  Saint 
women  in  this  day. 
TccLching  in  Relief  Society 
Depending  upon  the  skill  of  the 
teacher,  many  and  varied  methods 
of  conducting  a  class  period  may  be 
followed.  All  Relief  Society  teach- 
ers are  not  equally  trained  in  teach-