[Vol33 | July 1946 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

Selected Page 446
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon N March 1946, Anna Eleanor Roosevelt, wife of the late President Roosevelt, presented to President Truman, for the American people, beautiful and historic Hyde Park, the birthplace of her husband, Franklin D. Roosevelt. WILHELMINA of Holland, sixty-six years old, and queen since she was ten, mingles with all types of citizens and probably knows more about her people than does anyone else in her country. She dresses plainly, and, like her subjects, received only half a ton of coal last winter. BEFORE the war, a well-to-do English woman, in a journalistic plea for more practical education, told of the helplessness of her "class," untrained for household tasks. Throughout Europe, generally, manual labor has been considered unbefitting the "higher classes." Madame de Gaulle, wife of the retiming. Provisional president _ of France, is one example of countless women who have met the hard-work challenge heroically. During the war years in France, and in England where she was a refugee, she did all her own housework and made the dresses for her young daughters, besides. Giving community service. ? MADAME E GOUIN, wife of the new president of France, is known as one of the best furniture designers in her country. Le | 4 ESS and Margaret Truman, wife and daughter of President Truman, received some public commendation for taking fruit juice in preference to the prevalent alcoholic drinks at a reception in Washington. BERTHA A. KLEINMAN, well known poet of Mesa, Arizona, recently received a letter from King Carl Christian of Denmark, conveying his thanks for her ode written and dedicated to Denmark at the close of the war. N 'THE first post-war International Congress of Women, which was held in Paris, women from thirty-five countries participated. ABEL HENDRICKS POND of Richmond, Utah, has been honored as "The American Mother of Utah for 1946" by the American Mothers' Committee of the Golden Rule Foundation. Mrs. Pond _received many visitors and many letters of congratulation. A box of flowers and a letter were received from Acting Governor E. E. Monson on behalf of the State of Utah. The Benson Stake Relief Society presented Sister Pond with a lovely bouquet in appreciation for her nineteen years as a stake board member and her four years as counselor to Relief Society Stake President Leona R. McCarey. Page