[Vol33 | July 1946 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Sewing Committee]

JULY 1946
Lesson I Choosing the Right Clothes For Tuesday, October 8, 1946
Women were made to give our eyes delight A female sloven is an odious sight. 'Tis woman's duty to be charmingly dressed. It is not a question of how much money she spends, but the intelligent manner in which she spends her money. If the fundamental principles of sewing and good grooming are adhered to, a woman can be as correctly dressed in cotton as in silk or velvet.
Every girl should be taught how to sew correctly and effectively. It is an accomplishment that is not only an economy but a means of attaining individuality and smartness, and one that brings rich rewards in relaxation and satisfaction. A wardrobe made by an individual may be twice as extensive as one purchased ready made. The first step in dressmaking is to choose the proper styles, fabrics, -and colors suitable to you and your personality.
Study yourself in the mirror. It is your truest critic.
Become familiar with your weak points Edward Young (early 18th century) as well as your strong points.
Study your posture, your walk, your facial expression, and your hair-do.
Comb your hair in various ways and choose the most becoming style.
Accent your attractive features. You can give the illusion of gaining inches in height and losing pounds in weight through the proper choice of styles. Don't be afraid of changing your styles.
Colors that were not becoming to you at twenty may be best for you at forty, and visa versa.
Learn to be individual; never copy another person. The clever clothes worn by someone else may appear dowdy and unattractive on you.
Suggestions to Class Leaders: Bring materials of different colors, patterns, and textures.
Drape them on women of different types for good or bad effects.
Experiment with different necklines. Textbook References: The Complete Book of Sewing, Book Presentations, N. Y. 1943, I and II. Line  As Revealed in its Literature Elder Howard R. Driggs Preview of Lessons for 1946-47 HISTORY tells what man has done; literature reflects how he felt about it.
Within the songs, stories, orations, drama, and other types of creative expression may be felt the heartthrobs of a people. If these creations are in consonance with fact; if they are true to life, and particularly if they are true to truth, they help make of history a living reality. Our central purpose in this series of studies is to discover and enjoy literature that "rings true" to the inner spirit of America.
This means an alluring search for the gold nuggets that lie in the common sand and gravel. It means a careful testing LESSON DEPARTMENT of literary selections to separate the true from the false to find that which is soundly based on the fundamental principles of real Americanism..
These principles are rooted in true religion. Our nation, someone has said, was Bible-born.
Certain it is that literature which truly reflects its inmost spirit is soundly democratic in the highest sense is in accord with the spirit of true Christianity. We shall do well to discover and foster such upbuilding literature. It is protective and patriotic to do so.. In carrying forward this important study, a series of lessons covering two years' work is planned.
During the first year, the unfolding epic of America, viewed in the high lights of its literature, will be presented. For the second year, a more intensive study of chosen types of truly American literature will be made.
From such lessons, rich in content and systematically followed, should come a clearer vision of America as our founding fathers began it, and as our pioneers carried it "from sea to shining sea."
Here is a wealth of good reading and spiritual uplift. In offering it, there is clear realization of a vast, rich field. A temptation will be constant for teachers and students to stray away from the main road to alluring byways.
This must be resisted if the goal a clearer understanding of America, and more devotion to this land of liberty is to be achieved. Let that beacon light be the guide, and rich rewards from the work will be won.
Units of Study Lesson 1. Our American Indians in Literature 485
Inwoven with the epic of America's making in vital ways is the story of the red men. To get a more appreciative understanding of this colorful race the first Americans we know is the aim of this study.
Better understanding of Indians, their nature, their admirable traits, their helpful contributions to our developing settlement and civilization, will come as worthy literature portraying Indian life and thought is studied.
This may be found both in what expression we have from Indians themselves, and in that produced by authors who have caught something of their true nature and spirit. Latter-day Saints have a special interest and added knowledge and light for a deeper insight into this alluring theme.
Lesson 2. Colonial Founders of America in Literature Columbus, led by inspiration, opened a new world.
Following the great discoverer came folk of varied types seeking adventure, gold, and opportunity for greater freedom. So far as our own land is concerned, most of these liberty seekers wanted a place where they could worship God according to the dictates of their own conscience.
This study will be centered mainly on these courageous, God-fearing souls who builded better than they knew.
From them has come to us a heritage that grows richer with the passing years. Our part is to get closer to the Bible loving folk who dared the wide sea in their frail craft, and planted on the shores of our America their homes, their churches and schools.
From some of these homes came many of the founders of our faith.
Lesson 3. America's First War for Freedom in Literature Man's struggle for liberty a long, hard upclimb through the ages flames into brilliant reality during our Revolutionary War. Songs, stories, orations and essays truly expressive of this fighting epoch, will help bring its inner significance to us.
This literature is vibrant with aspiration and courage of a people who visioned clearly their "inalienable right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." To secure this right they went through the fires of testing conflict. It is a precious 486 heritage they have bequeathed to us one we should study with devotion.
Lesson 4.
Youthtime of a Nation Dedicated to Freedom Winning a war is one thing; winning a lasting peace is a sequence of as profound significance. In the story of the drafting and adopting of our Constitution, is drama of quiet intensity not often realized by those who live under its provisions and protection. The Lord has told us that this great charter of freedom is God-inspired. We shall do well to understand it better to get closer to the story of its making.
Some of the literature to be studied in this unit will help achieve that result.