[Vol33 | July 1946 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Pioneer Stories and Lyman]
Giga 57. Pioneer Stories and Incidents Indians on the Plains President Amy Brown Lyman This is the first in a series of true pioneer incidents to be published by The Relief Society Magazine in honor of the 1947
Utah Centennial celebration AMONG the many problems confronting the Mormon pioneers, both on the plains and afterward in "the Valley," were those connected with the Indians.
Notwithstanding the precautions taken by the pioneers, and their desire to deal fairly with the Indians, many trying situations presented themselves. On their part, the Indians naturally resented the white people and, to add to the difficulties, there was enmity among the various Indian tribes.
While the Indians on the plains, mostly Pawnees and Sioux, were apparently friendly to the pioneers, they were mercenary, and the temptation for them to steal horses and cattle was often too great for them to resist.
Their method was to follow the pioneer tram quietly and stealthily, and, in the darkness of night, to creep in among the animals, cut their ropes, and foment a stampede. In most cases the animals would scatter in all directions, and the Indians usually succeeded in making off with some of them. In the Journal or the pioneer John Brown, we read: Next day we... Reached Ash Hollow near the Platte. We camped near the brush in the hollow after dark... I came on the second watch that night. The first guard told us to keep a sharp lookout. The mules were very uneasy. One man discovered something near where a Page 440 mule was staked, and threw a bone at it, supposing it to be a dog, but it ran off like a man half bent.
About this time I discovered a horse going loose across the corral. I went and examined the rope which was about six feet long. I felt the end of it and pronounced it cut and immediately alarmed the camp and turned out all hands. We found several horses cut loose and one mare and two colts missing. We kept everything close till morning when a search was made and a trail up the hollow in the sand showed where the three animals had been driven off, and nine pairs of moccasin tracks in the trail were found.... Six men followed the trail that day but could find nothing (Autobiography of John Brown, page 8). On the return trip of the pioneers across the plains (September 20, 1847) at LaBorte in the Black Hills, pioneer Brown wrote: About an hour by sun we went to drive in our animals to start our journey. Brother G. A.
Smith and myself had got about halfway to the horses when the guard gave the alarm that the Indians had charged upon the herd and we could hear them yelling and firing their guns. We, not having our arms with us, ran back to get them. I got my rifle and started back to the herd but had not gone more than 100 yards when I met the Indians, who were coming on both sides of the river and over the hills some two or three hundred in number. We were soon mixed up and the greatest confusion prevailed for a few minutes. Our animals were all secured but eleven head which the Indians succeeded in running off at the beginning. No one was hurt during the whole struggle.
