[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | October | Issue: 5 | Title: DOMESTIC SCIENCE, AND HOME. | Author: Unknown]

DOMESTIC SCIENCE, AND HOME.
	Home is the resort
Of love, of joy, of peace and plenty, where,
Supporting and supported, polished friends
And dear relations mingle into bliss.
	Home: That word touches every fiber
of the soul, and strikes every chord of the
human heart with its angelic fingers.
Nothing but death can break its spell.
What tender associations are linked with
the home: What pleasing images and
deep emotions it awakens: It calls up the
fondest memories of life, and opens in our
nature the purest, deepest, richest gush
of consecrated thought and feeling.
	To the little child, home is his world.
He knows no other. The father’s love,
the mother’s smile, the sister’s embrace,
the brother’s welcome, throw about his
home a heavenly halo, and makes it as
attractive to him as the home of angels.
Home is the spot where the child pours
out all his complaints, and it is the grave
of all his sorrows. 
	Childhood has its sorrows and its griev-
ances; but home is the place where these
are soothed and banished by the sweet
lullaby of a fond mother’s voice. Ask the
man of mature years, whose brow is fur-
rowed by care, whose mind is engrossed
in business, -- ask him what is home.
	He will tell you: It is a place of rest, a
haven of content, where loved ones re-
lieve him of the burden of every day life
too heavy to be continuously borne, from
whence, refreshed and invigorated, he
goes forth to battle again. Every home
should be as a city set on a hill, that can-
not be hid. Into it should flock friends
and friendship, bringing the light of the
world, the stimulus and the modifying
power of contact with various natures,
the fresh flowers of feeling gathered from
wide fields. The influences of home per-
petuate themselves. The gentle graces
of the mother live in the daughter long
after her head is pillowed in the dust of
death; and the fatherly kindness finds its
echoes in the nobility and character of
sons, who come to wear his mantle and
fill his place. While, on the other hand,
from unhappy, misgoverned, and ill order-
ed homes go forth persons who shall make
other homes miserable, and perpetuate
the sorrows and sadness, the contentions
and strifes, which have made their own
early lives miserable. 
	If we would have a true home, we must
guard well our thoughts and actions. A
single bitter word may disquiet the home
for a whole day; but, like unexpected
flowers which spring up along our path
full of freshness, fragrance, and beauty,
so do kind words and gentle acts and
sweet disposition make glad the home
where peace and blessings dwell.
	No matter how humble the abode, if it
be thus garnished with grace and sweet-
ened by kindness and smiles, the heart
will turn lovingly towards it from all the
tumults of the world, and home, “be it
ever so humble,” will be the dearest spot
under the sun.

[Column 2]
	Home in one form or another is the
great object of life. It stands at the end
of every days labor, and beckons us to its
bosom: and life would be cheerless and
meaningless did we not discern across
the river that divides it from the life be-
yond, glimpses of the pleasant mansions
prepared for us.
	Home should be so truly home that the
weary, tempted heart, could turn towards
it any where on the dusty highways of
life, and receive light and strength. It
should be the sacred refuge of our lives,
whether rich or poor.
	How can children repay parents for
their watchings, anxieties, labors, toils,
trials, patience, and love? Think of the
long years of unwearied toil, of their deep
and soul felt devotion to the interests of
their offspring. Every day should they
give them some token of love.
	Every hour should their own hearts
glow with gratitude and holy respect for
those who have given them being.
	There is an enduring tenderness in the
love of a mother to her son that trans-
cends all other affections of the heart.
	It is neither to be chilled by selfishness,
weakened by worthlessness, nor stifled
by ingratitude. She will sacrifice every
comfort to his convenience; she will sur-
render every pleasure to his enjoyment;
she will glory in his fame, and exult in his
prosperity.
	If misfortune overtakes him, he will be
the dearer to her from misfortune; and if
disgrace settles upon his name, she will
still love and cherish him in spite of his
disgrace.
	If all the world besides cast him off,
she will be all the world to him. A father
may turn his back on his child, brothers
and sisters may become inveterate, en-
emies, husbands may desert their wives,
wives their husbands; but a mother’s love
endures through all.
	 In good repute, in bad, in the face of
the world’s condemnation, a mother still
lives on and still hopes that her child may
turn from his evil ways and repent; still
she remembers his infant smile that ever
filled her bosom with rapture, the merry
laugh, the joyful shout of his childhood,
the opening promise of his youth; and
thinking of these, she never can be
brought to think him all unworthy.
	Too frequently the effect of prosperity
is to render the heart cold and selfish;
but the heart will never forget the hal-
lowed influence of happy home memories.
It will be an evening’s enjoyment to which
the lapse of years will only add new
sweetness.
	Such a home memory is a constant in-
spiration for good, and as constant a re-
straint from evil. A constant endeavor
should be made to render every home
cheerful. Innocent joy should reign in
every heart.
	There should be found domestic amuse-
ment, fireside pleasures, quiet and simple
they may be, but such as shall make
home happy, and not leave it in that irk-
some place that will oblige the youthful
spirit to look elsewhere for joy.


[Column 1]
	Make your children helpful and useful,
and you will make them happy. Let
them early form habits of neatness, and
when you are weary you will not have to
wait on their carelessness.
	Teach them to give you courteous
speech and manners, and they will live to
honor you. Never reprove the little ones
before strangers; for children are as sen-
sitive, if not more so, than other persons,
and wish strangers to think well of them.
	When reproved before any one with
whom they are not well acquainted, their
vanity is wounded. They have self re-
spect, and such mortification of it is
dangerous. Praise spurs a child on to
earnest effort; blame when administered
before visitors, takes away the power of
doing well. It is the parents duty to
make their children’s childhood full of
love and childhoods’ proper joyousness.
Not all the appliances that wealth can
buy are necessary to the free and happy
unfolding of childhood in body, mind and
heart. But children must have love in-
side the house, and fresh air and good
play and companionship outside.
	The gleeful laugh of happy children is
the best home music, and the graceful
figures of childhood are the best statuary.
	The organization of the home depends
for the most part upon the woman. She
is necessarily the manager of every family
and household. How much there depends
upon her intelligent co-operation.
	Man’s life revolves around woman. She
is the sun of his social life. The comforts of
every home mainly depend upon her—
upon her character, her temper, her
power of organization and her business
management. The idea is fast gaining
ground especially among the younger
girls of today that in order to have a home
where they can be really happy they must
have a house with all the improvements
of modern times, a vast amount of money
must be spent in costly furniture most of
which is fit only as an ornament to a
room rather than being of real use to the
family. Then too all members of the
family must be kept from the most cheer-
ful room in the house in order that it may
be kept ready for callers. To me the en-
nobling influences that do so much to
make stronger characters, and conse-
quently each day assist in making this a
better world, cannot be felt in such a
home, all the real home love, the real
home feelings are wanting. We are not
satisfied merely with a dwelling place, our
home must be comfortable. I do not
mean warmth, good furniture, good eat-
ing and drinking. I mean cleanliness,
pure air, order, economy; in a word home-
thrift and domestic government. Wealth
is not necessary to comfort. A poor
man’s home, moderately supplied with
the necessaries of life, presided over by a
cleanly, frugal housewife, may contain all
the elements of comfortable living, want
of comfort is for the most part caused,
not so much by the absence of sufficient
means, as by the absence of the requisite
knowledge of domestic management.
	I believe that the woman who would
make her home comfortable must be
systematic in her every day routine of
home duties. The woman who starts out
in the morning without first planning her
day’s work will be the woman to whom
housework is a perfect drudgery. But
let her plan her work, let her go at her

[Column 2]
work with a determination to accomplish
it in so much time, and let her be pleas-
ant and cheerful always; then will the
home duties become the greatest pleasures
she will ever know. Another eminently
household quality is punctuality—How
many grumblings would be avoided in
domestic life by a little more attention
being paid to this virtue. Late breakfasts
and late dinners, cleanings out of time
and washings protracted till midnight,—
what a host of little nuisances spring to
mind at the thought of the unpunctual
house wife.
	The unpunctual woman like the un-
punctual man, becomes disliked because
she consumes our time, interferes with
our plans, causes uneasy feelings, and
virtually tells us that we are not of suffi-
cient importance to cause her to be more
punctual. To the business man time is
money, and to the business woman it is
more—it is peace, comfort and domestic
prosperity.
	How often we hear it said that “clean-
liness is next to Godliness.” Where then
if not in our home should this quality be
found?
	If we would have our homes a place
where God’s holiest angels would be
pleased to dwell we must have it a place
where order and cleanliness prevail. How
many times have we entered the house of
a friend, and found every room, every
dish, every book, every piece of furniture
out of its place; the floors all littered up
with everything, so completely covered
with dust that your friend would have to
take her apron and remove the dust from
a chair before she could invite you to be
seated.
	Do you remember the feeling that came
over you when you entered that home?
Do you remember how you longed to flee
from there and return to the peace and
quiet of your own fire-side. If such would
be the influence of such a home over a
stranger, imagine what it would be over
the child reared in such a place. Could
he come from home with the spirit of
God so implanted in his soul that tempta-
tion would be an easy matter to be over-
come, would he come from such a home
with any great desire to return, when the
errand that called him forth was per-
formed.
	Suppose the home you entered had
been so well managed that in all the
house there was not one room, one arti-
cle of furniture, one dish out of its place.
Suppose there were snow white curtains
at the windows, well swept carpets on
the floors, and in the grate a warm cheer-
ful fire. Do you think your stay in this
home would have been such a formal
call? Why I have been in such homes
when it seemed utterly impossible for me
to tear myself away from their peaceful,
quiet, comfortable influence. Such a
home is the sweetest type of heaven.
	The mother who would make of her
home a heaven for her family is the one
who each night plans her work for the
following day. She is the one who arises,
and has each member of her family arise,
at an hour so early that sufficient time
will be given each one to prepare for the
duties of the day before him. Her break-
fast will be served at a certain hour each
morning and at such an hour that all may
enjoy not only his meal but the spirit of
love and peace that should prevail in a
true home. Immediately after the morn-

[Column 3]
ing meal is served and the morning greet-
ings are over the mother takes up her
labors for the day, Remembering first
of all those who are so near to her—she
goes into their sleeping rooms and throws
open the doors and windows and allows
plenty of good fresh air and sunshine to
enter which does so much in the promot-
ing of health, Many persons I believe
do not appreciate this blessing which
God sends alike to all his children, but
when we stop to consider the many dis-
eases and even death which have been
caused by the inmates of the house
breathing the foul air which has been
allowed to remain there for days at a
time, we would consider fresh air and
the bright sunshine among our greatest
luxuries. All the clothes from every bed
should be thrown entirely back in order
that they may become well ventilated
and purified by the air before the bed is
made. I am here reminded of a few lines
of poetry which is self suggested and runs
as follows:
	Do you wish to be healthy!
	Then keep the house sweet;
	As soon as you’re up
	Shake each blanket and sheet.
	Leave the beds to get fresh,
	On the close-crowded floor.
	Let the wind sweep right through—
	Open window and door.
	The bad air will rush out
	As the good air comes in,
	Just as goodness is stronger
	And better than sin.
	Do this, it’s soon done,
	In the fresh morning air,
	It will lighten your labor
	And lessen your care.
	You are weary—no wonder,
	There’s weight and there’s gloom
	Hanging heavily round
	In each over-full room.
	Be sure all the trouble
	Is profit and gain
	For there’s headache and heartache,
	And fever and pain
	Hovering round, settling down
	In the closeness and heat;
	Let the wind sweep right through
	Till the air’s fresh and sweet.
	And more cheerful you’ll feel
	Through the toil of the day;
	More refreshed you’ll awaken
	When the night’s passed away.
	The thrifty housewife who has well
considered the duties of the day will have
cleared the breakfast table, assorted the
dishes, put cooking utensils to soak and
put the dining and living rooms in order,
next she has looked through store closet
and refrigerator and made a list of food
to be ordered, having washed the dishes
and prepared any dish that may require
long cooking, will next make the beds
neatly and put the sleeping rooms in
order. Her house is now in order and
she is free to pay attention to other
duties of the day.
	The wise mother will select for her din-
ing room the most cheerful, and pleasant
room in her home. Let this always be a
bright airy place where the rays of sun-
shine can penetrate each corner,
	Give the arrangements of this room
your most careful attention and above all
make it a place of comfort and rest. Do
not have your room filled with furniture
that must be watched constantly for fear
of a mar or scratch, but let the air of


[Column 1]
freedom pervade the very atmosphere.
Place here such pictures, as will bring to
the mind of the dwellers therein pure,
ennobling thoughts.
	A few flowers in the window sweetens
the air, makes the room look graceful and
refreshing. The flower is a companion
that will never say a cross thing to any
one, but will always look beautiful and
smiling. Does it not appeal to you that
this is just the room in which to serve
your meals. Man does not live to eat, but
he certainly eats to live, and the perfect-
ion and beauty of his spirit is largely con-
ditioned upon the health of his body—
since in a large measure the daily food
conditions the health of the body, every
possible care must be taken to have the
greatest amount of good come from the
food. For this reason, it is imperative to
have pleasant surroundings, those that
are most conducive to cheerful and festive
train of thought and good nature. If the
mind is soothed and at rest, the food
taken is much more beneficial to the
body. No matter how plain, how simple
the food may be the thoughful mother
will exert every effort to serve each meal
in a proper manner. First of all she will
see to it that the room is clean, freshly
aired and dusted and the table in its right
place. In setting the table it is a good
plan to have a thick piece of canton
flannel cloth to lay first on the table.
	This cloth will not only protect the
table from the hot dishes, but will pre-
vent the sound of dishes being set down
upon the table.
	On top of that lay the table cloth per-
fectly straight, with no wrinkles. It is
preferable to use a white cloth, no mat-
ter how cheap the material, for even
then it can be kept white and well laun-
dried, and to the looks appeals to our
better self, makes the plainest food
sweeter to the taste. Much labor can
be saved if the table linen, after using,
is properly cared for by the crumbs be-
ing removed and folded neatly in the
creases and carefully iaid away,
	We may consider a few simple direc-
tions for setting the table.
	Where soup, meat, vegetables and des-
sert are served, the table can be set as
follows: First set a plate for each person,
at the right side of the plate place
a knife with the sharp edge towards the
plate; next to the knife a soup spoon
with the open side of the bowl up. At
the left place a fork, next to the fork the
napkin. If bread and butter plates are
used, place them at the left; put the
glass of water in line with the end of the
blade of the knife. Put a mat for the
meat dish before the carver, and on each
side of the table for the vegetables.
Place the carving knife at the right of the
carver and the fork at the left and a
table spoon in front of him. Put a table
spoon where each dish of vegetables is
to be placed, also at the other end
of the table. Have the dessert
plates with the necessary silver for each
one—teaspoon or knife or fork depend-
ing on the dessert—placed on a side table
near at hand. Fill the glasses with wa-
ter and place a pitcher of water on the
table. If you use pickles or catchup,
place them on the table. Remove the
soup dishes and bring on the meat and
vegetables. Put the warm plates before
the carver. Remove the remaining din-
ner and bring on the dessert.

[Column 2]
	Perhaps there is no branch of domestic
science in the home which is of greater
consequence than that in the preparation
and cooking of the food.
	A good cook must know how to take
“left over,” keep them fresh and sweet,
and out of them make other nourishing
preparations.
	If there is one kind of food that seems
more precious than another it is bread.
As bread is the staff of life, we should be
very careful not to waste any. The
Lord has abundantly blessed us in these
days with plenty. When we read of the
priyatione of the pioneers of this coun-
try, when flour was almost worth its
weight in gold, and when our mission-
aries abroad have testified of its value
and longed for even a crust, we should
sense the importance of wisely using this
great boon to the best advantage. There
are many ways in which odd pieces of
stale bread can be put to use. Steamed
bread, milk toast, bread pudding, cheese
toast, dressings for fowls, drying, rolling
and sifting odd pieces of bread, placing
in a clean, dry jar can be kept any
length of time and used for a variety of
purposes.
	Economy should be the watchword in
every household, and one illustration in
this direction will suffice to show how the
frugal mother can have a variety of
dishes from a very small outlay.
	In the making of soups, by a little tact,
the use of a fair sized bone, such as can
be bought for fifteen or twenty-five
cents, can be used in a variety of ways.
You first make your stock by boiling the
meat, which is strained, cooled and all
fat removed.
	This stock can be kept for a week in
a cool place. A little potato hash can
be made from the meat. If any of this
remains, the flavor can be changed by
adding fine chopped onions and fried
into patties. From this stock you can
first make a good vegetable soup, and
what is left over strain and make a to-
mato soup by adding a spoonful of corn
starch and the tomato juice and season-
ing to taste.
	The potato juice thus used is put up
when the regular stock of tomatoes are
prepared for the winter, by being well
cooked, strained, and bottled, ready to
use for such a purpose. If any of tke
stock is left, make into a clear soup the
rest.
	Many other illustrations in this direc-
tion might be given to good advantage,
but time will not permit. But having
been requested by our worthy president to
relate some of my first experiences, I
venture to offer the following:
	On account of the ill health of my
father when I was about eleven years of
age, our family leased a home in a little
country town.
	The farm was stocked with the usual
supply of horses, cows, pigs and poultry.
It was usual for my parents to visit in
town once a week, and on such occasions
it fell to my lot to prepare whatever
meals were had in their absence. As
there was plenty of fruit on the premises,
we were allowed to help ourselves, and
like growing children always are, my
brother and I not being able to content
ourselves till dinner time, were appeas-
ing our appetites with an apple. The
thought occurred to my brother that it
would be a good idea to have some of

[Column 3]
those delicious apple dumpling, such as
mother made. I readily consented, be-
lieving that I could easily accomplish the
task, as I had previously watched mother
make them. After all preparations had
been made and extra precautions taken
to insure success, we sat down to
feast upon them, but, alas! to my great
disappointment, they were heavy and
appeared as so many balls of lead, and
my brother laughed so heartily that I
persuaded him to throw all of them to
the pigs, and extorted a promise that the
matter should be kept a secret. Noth-
ing was said till next morning, when my
brother was engaged in attending to the
animals and reported to father that one
of the pigs was ill. My father hastened to
the pen and suggested that the animal
was only sleeping, and requested the boy
to awaken it, and at the same time giv-
ing the grunter a poke with his cane. It
was of no use, however, and they were
about to remove the body, when the
thought suggested itself as to how the
pig had died. On close investigation it
was discovered, to my great mortification
and embarrasment, that it had been one
of my dumplings.

	Let the table be the happy eating
place of a merry group, and not simply a
dull board where the members come only
to eat; and lastly, but not least, let the
house all day long, be the scene of
pleasant looks, pleasant words, kind and
affectionate acts.
	Let the sitting room at evening be the
place where a merry company settle
themselves to books and games, until
the round of goodnight kisses are in or-
der.
	I think of no work to which a woman
is called that presents as many interest-
ing problems, or that should be fuller of
interest to the broadly-educated woman.
Almost every science is brought into play
in the equipment and management of a
home.
	May we, as mothers who have sons
and daughters growing up around us,
ever think of the responsibility of keep-
ing alive the home feeling in the hearts
of our children, and thus perpetuate the
virtues and graces with which our heav-
enly Father has endowed us.
