[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | October | Issue: 5 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. | Author: Unknown]

	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		MORGAN STAKE.
	The Morgan Stake conference was held
August 17th in the stake house with a
fairly good attendance.
	The General Board was represented by
Sisters P. Y. Beatie and C. S. Thomas of
Salt Lake City. The several branches
were reported as doing the best they can
under the circumstances in which they
are placed. Some are too busy to at-
tend meetings much, but on the whole
there are enough faithful workers to keep
the Relief Society work rolling on in the
Morgan Stake. The Stake Presidency of
the Relief Society make regular visits.
				ANNIE W. CLARK,
							Secretary.
		WASATCH STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Wasatch stake was held June 16, 1905,
in the stake tabernacle, and was well
attended by stake authorities and local
officers.
	Sisters Margaret A. Caine and P. J. M.
Farnsworth, representing the General
Board, were also present.
	Sister Ann Murdock related an instance
that she heard at the first Relief Society

[Column 2]
meeting held in Salt Lake City, that the
Relief Society should spread from north
to south, from east to west; she had lived
to see this fulfilled.
	A lecture was given by Sister Johanna
Jensen on Charity.
	Recitation, “Thy will be done,” Sophia
Lake.
	The visiting sisters gave encouraging
remarks to workers in the Relief Society
cause, also dwelt on need of charity, re-
finement and gentleness among the sis-
ters and girls. Emphasized the necessity
of keeping the lives and memories of the
pioneers fresh in the minds of the sons
and daughters of Zion.
	President Wm. H. Smart desired the
sisters to be loyal to their file leaders and
loyal to all their spiritual and tempo-
ral interests. Paid a glowing tribute to
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, also to the
stake presidency.
	The reports from the various ward of-
ficers given at officers meeting indicated
the work to be progressing in this stake
of Zion.
		SARAH K DUKE, Secretary.
		KANAB STAKE.
	Minutes of the Kanab Stake Relief
Society conference, held at Kanab Sep-
tember 4, 1905. Stake Counselor Eliza-
beth Pugh present and presiding.
	Sang “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Prayer by Counselor E, J. H. Lewis
of the Kanab Relief Society.
	Counselor Elizabeth Pugh made a few
opening remarks; said President Seeg-
miller and Counselor H. E. Hoyt were
absent; also regretted that the visiting
sisters from Salt Lake were unable to
meet with us. A letter from President
Seegmiller, also one from Sister Emme-
line B. Wells were read.
	Sister Pugh reported that President
Seegmiller and Counselor H. E. Hoyt
had visited the stake three months ago,
filled up all vacancies, and that now each
society was in good order.
	The different wards of the stake were
represented and reported by an officer of
each Relief Society as in fairly good work-
ing order, teachers alive to their duties
as a rule, meetings held regularly, and
those in attendance feeling well.
	Instructions given at the conference
were: referring to the duties of the mem-
bers of the Relief Society, our duties to
each other, care for the sick, looking
after the poor and needy, have a watch-
care over the children, our neighbor’s as
well as our own, sustain those in author-
ity over us, and live so that we may have
a claim upon the blessings of the Lord.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Sang “Praise to the man.” etc.
	Benediction by Sister J. W. Seaman.
			PERSIS A. SPENCER, Sec.
		NEBO STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of Nebo
Stake Relief Society convened in the
Spanish Fork 1st ward meeting house
October 9, 1905, at 10.30 o’clock, Pres.
Lilyus C. Page presiding.
	Mrs. Estella Davis rendered a song-
	Pres. Mary A. Hallam, of Spanish Fork
2nd ward briefly welcomed all present at
our conference; prayed for the spirit of
the Lord to be with us.
	The Leland ward was reported by
Prest. Markham with doing the best they
can under the circumstances—have forty
bushels of wheat on hand.


[Column 1]
	Sister Sarah Swenson reported the
society of the 4th ward of Spanish Fork;
they own meeting house and granary,
have between 400 and 500 bushels of
wheat on hand.
	The Salem ward society was reported
by Pres. Mary Ann Pierce: Own meeting
house and granary, have nearly 500 bush-
els of wheat, The teachers are doing a
good work; some have visited every
month.
	Sister Harker, one of the missionaries
from Salt Lake City, felt very pleased to
hear and partake of the good spirit of our
meeting; said we came here not to do
our own will, but the will of the Father.
We should make home the most beloved
place on earth. Spoke of the teachers as
being the backbone of the society. En-
couraged the secretaries to be prompt in
copying their minutes and in sending in
their reports. Her remarks were full of
encouragement and blessing for the sis-
ters.
	Recitation by Sister Rhoda Robinson.
	President Holt invited all to stay and
have lunch.
	Adjourned, after singing and prayer,
until 1:30, o'clock.
	Afternoon meeting recovened. After
the opening exercises, a hymn was sung
by Sister Ann Lewis.
	Stake Counselor Henry Gardner said
he did not know of an organization of so
much importance in the Church as the
Relief Society. The sisters had been
pioneers and home builders. Had some
business to present in behalf of Sister Page,
who was desirous of being released from
the presidency of the Nebo Stake Relief
Society. Proposed that the sisters give
her an honorable release and thanks for
her labors in the past, which motion was
unanimously sustained.
	Sister Eliza J. Dixon was chosen and
unanimously sustained to fill her place as
President of the Relief Society of the
Nebo Stake.
	Sister Page felt very thankful for the
way in which the sisters had sustained
her; felt that they had prayed for her
as well as sustained her.
	Sister Dixon felt that the sisters had
made a mistake in saying that she would
make a better president that Sister Page.
Felt thankful for the support the sisters
had given the presidency in the past,
and prayed they would support her in the
future.
	A song was sung by Sister Anne Rowe.
	Sister Harker was thankful for the
spirit of unity that had been made mani-
fest; spoke of the woman's building; said
we will have one in connection with the
memorial building. Referred to holding
ward conferences, also explained how to
keep up a contingent fund.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp was the next
speaker, who said, we have all been sit-
ting so long, asked all to arise and rest a
while, went through some exercises; felt
glad to look into the faces of the brothers
and sisters. Had been a member of the
Relief Society many years before realiz-
izing the importance of the work and
what it meant when Joseph Smith organ-
ized the Relief Society. We should be
grateful for the privileges and blessings
we enjoy. The greatest honor we can
have is to be a true wife and noble moth-
er; thought we should have charity one
for another. Do not give way to our tem-
pers. Be careful not to wound the feel-

[Column 2]
ings of our little children. Let us learn
to love one another, and be united one
with another; attend to family prayers
morning and evening; spoke of the nurse
class to be taught this year; prayed the
Lord to bless each one of us.
	Sister Page felt that we had had a good
time today, and pleased with the way we
had been entertained-
	Conference was adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Patriarch Wil-
kins.
		MARY F. BROWN, Sec.
SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the
Snowflake stake was held at Snowflake
August 11, 1905.
	After the usual opening exercises, Pres-
ident Emma S. Smith addressed the
meeting and said: It is a good plan for
the sisters to attend the priesthood meet-
ings. We need the instructions given
by the brethren. I am thankful for the
confidence they repose in us and hope we
will be worthy of it. The sisters have 
offered many prayers for me; and I am
very grateful to them.
	Counselor Driggs said the Stake Board
had visited all the branches of the society
with one exception. They are in good
condition, and the sisters have an excel-
lent spirit.
	Sister Eliza S. Rogers rendered a solo,
accompanied by Mrs. Marie West.
	Sister Janet M. Smith spoke on tithing.
	Bishop John Hunt spoke of the perse-
cution some of our people are receiving
at the present time, and alluded to the
remarks which had been made on tithing.
It is a true principle, and will benefit all
who practiee it.
	Duet by Misses Jennie Kartchner and
Wilmurth Flake, accompanied by Mrs.
Marie West. 
	Counselor Mary J. R. West said, My
ardor in the suffrage work was dampened
when the women of my nation tried to
unseat Senator Smoot.
	President Jesse N, Smith said: “Sister
Smith has placed her resignation as stake
president of the Relief Society at the
disposal of the brethren. She has been
an invalid for many years, and consider-
ing her impaired health at the present
time, ft is not deemed wise to tax her
strength too greatly. She is a prayerful
woman, and one who devoutly believes
the Gospel.” The name of Sister Mary J.
R. West has been selected, and it is sug-
gested she act as Sister Smith's succes-
sor, and on motion President Smith's
resignation was accepted, and a vote of
thanks tendered her and her counselors
for their many years of service.
	President Jesse N. Smith proposed the
name of Sister Mary J. R. West to fill
the vacancy caused by Sister Smith's re-
lease. Vote unanimous.
	President Emma S. Smith thanked the
sisters for releasing her. Said she had
had taken pleasure in the work, and
loved the sisters who had labored with
her.
	Counselor Mary J. R. West paid a
tribute to the faithful labors of Sisters
Smith and Driggs.
	At the close of the meeting the congre-
gation flocked around the outgoing offic-
ers, to express regret at parting with them
and to congratulate Sister West on her
new position.	
	Later Sister West chose Emma L.

[Column 3]
Smith and Belle H. Flake as counselors,
and they were set apart by President
Jesse N. Smith and Smith D. Rogers.

	September 14, a special conference
was called, and we were honored by a
visit from Sisters Dusenberry and Beatie,
of the General Board. Our new presi-
dent, Sister West, who had been to Hol-
brook to meet the sisters, also came in
with them.
	All the ward presidents were in attend-
ance, which is an exceedingly rare occur-
rence in our stake. The branches of the
Society were represented in very much
the same condition as at the last confer-
ence.
	Sister Phebe Young Beatie was intro-
duced as a daughter of President Brigham
Young, and a step-daughter of our dear
Aunt Zina, a relationship she is pleased
to own. She spoke of sewing parties as a
good way to get the sisters enthused, the
benefits of the Kindergarten and the
Nurse's class. Explained in detail what
would be required of the girls who took
the course and the manner in which
homes were prepared for them. Encour-
aged the girls to take the course, as it 
is a profitable employment. Every girl
should learn a useful trade, even if she is
ever so wealthy.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry spoke
on the influence we wield; the irrepar-
able injury done to children by ignorant
mothers, and of the home, its decorations,
etc.
	In the evening an entertainment was
given in honor of Sisters Smith and
Driggs. The house was decorated for
the occasion, and there was a large at-
tendance of both old and young.
	Counselor Dusenberry gave the open-
ing address, which was a beautiful tribute
to the life and labors of these two sisters.
	Sister Beatie extended congratulations,
and gave excellent advice to the young
people. Sentiments expressive of love
and gratitude were given by all the
branches of the Society present, for each
of the sisters.
	President Jesse N. Smith also made re-
marks, and both guests of the evening
expressed gratitude for the honor shown
them and the gifts ef the sisters.
	President Mary J. R. West thanked
all who had contributed to the success of
the evening and approved the sentiments
voiced by the speakers.
	The program was enlivened by several
musical selections, and all seemed well
pleased to close an interesting day in such
an agreeable manner.
		DELLA F. SMITH, Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Miss Flora Clift Stephenson, who has
just died, had been elected triennially for
33 years to the school board of Edin-
burgh, Scotland, and had for some years
past been president of the board. She
had also been presented with the freedom
of the city for her great services to the
cause of education. The Scotch are re-
garded as conservative and the Americans
as progressive; yet imagine what commo-
tion there would be if a woman were
placed at the head of the school board in
any large city of this country, outside the
four equal suffrage States.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
