[Vol46 | July 1959 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Fanny | Author: Belliston]
Fanny Steenblih Kienitz Appointed to General (Board of Relief Society Elsie M. Belliston FANNIE STEENBLIK KIENITZ ANNY (Fenneken) Steenblik Kienitz was appointed a member of the General Board of Relief Society May 13, 1959. In her life the gospel has been in very deed a way of life. The rich experiences it has brought to her span the ocean and reach into the mission field. She was born in beautiful Arnhem, Holland, to Frederik and Janna Tempelman Steenblik. Her parents accepted the gospel and came to America in time for Fanny to enter kindergarten. In Salt Lake City, Fanny's father, the Dutch shop owner, became a farmer and dairyman. His family grew until it numbered eleven. 'They understood the sacrifices that are made by converts to the Church who come to a strange land to make their home. Sister Kienitz grew up in the schooling of the Church and assisted in ward activities and entertainments, and served in positions of secretary, teacher, and counselor in ward auxiliaries. She married Willard Smith in the Salt Lake Temple. They were blessed with one son, Willard Steenbik Smith. She was sustained in the long illness and death of her husband by her faith and her loyal family. Two years later she was called to the East Central States when that mission was organized. She served as mission Relief Society president under the direction of Mission President Miles L. Jones, for the two years of her mission. She returned home to the care of her son. And the activities in her ward and stake. Her son Willard Steenblik Smith and his wife Emily Bringhurst Smith are the parents of four children. When she married William H. Kienitz she. Moved to Emigration Stake, and, in 1950 when University Stake was created, she became its Relief Society president. In 1956 she was appointed group leader of the Relief Society Presidents Department of the Salt Lake Welfare Region.: Sister Kienitz has great willingness and capacity for work. She is anxious to consider others' points of view. She has a humble heart and great faith in our Father and the gospel of Jesus Christ.