Mothers of Yesterday By Claire S. Boyer With the great fund of scientific knowledge now at hand upon the subject of child training, the mothers of today cannot help wondering how the mothers of yesterday succeeded so well with so little information. That they did succeed remarkably well is not a mere assumption, it is true. Although the mothers of yesterday may not have known the science of child training they certainly had developed the art. Science is systematized knowledge, art is skill in the use of knowledge. And though their knowledge may not have been extensive they used their small store wisely indeed. The three fundamentals of child training, were ever present in their daily living. They may not have been recognized or classified but they were employed.. The mothers of yesterday had faith. Their belief in God put them in harmony with themselves, each other and the universe. This spirit of harmony created the atmosphere of home. It made possible the growth of love. Love never blooms except in the soil of faith. And home is not home without love. Mothers of yesterday had hope. Their hope bore the brand of healthy optimism. No matter what the condition of weather, crops or health they were hopeful of the outcome. They knew how to smile. Smiling was a habit. It was their natural attitude to be cheerful and the joy of living is that rare quality that seems so seldom to brighten the attitude of parents today. Look at the lines in the faces of our grandmothers today. There are more smile wrinkles than worry wrinkles. That is proof that hope overcame fear and discouragement. Mothers of yesterday knew the true use of charity. Charity meant to them?giving themselves. That included kindness, thoughtfulness, consideration. That meant withholding criticism, slights, jealousies. It demanded understanding. They made a slow thoughtful effort to understand others. Snap-judgments and prejudices did not flourish so easily. They considered it their business to understand. And that is all science is trying to do today?to help us understand, to help us, be happy and to give us faith in the divine as it reveals itself in nature and in our children. And if we have all scientific knowledge and lack faith, hope and charity we are building our structures upon the sand.