Mother Love By Ida R. OM lived alone with his father on the outskirts of the village. Even Tom's father could see little worth while in the boy and his neighbors and schoolmates shunned him. His red tousled hair, freckled face, and ill kept person made him the laughing stock of the community. As he slouched his way up the aisle and into his seat the students tittered and nudged each other. "Tt looks like his hair is on fire. You'd better be careful and not get too close," said Ted to Selma, his next-door neighbor, in a semiwhisper. Then he winked mischievously as he noted the color rising in Tom's face and slowly mounting to the very roots of his hair. "And see those clothes! Looks as though they had descended from Father Adam. I'll bet they were the only things saved from the flood. Gee! But he's a real catch and no fooling. He ought to be in a museum or a traveling circus. He'd sure make a hit and I don't mean maybe." Ted chuckled at his own cleverness, Tom shifted uneasily in his seat' as he heard the unkind remarks of his tormenter. He clenched his fists as he eyed the well-kept person who left no stone unturned to make him miserable. "Attention!" called the little teacher as she turned to the blackboard. "Here are your exercises for tomorrow. You may copy them before proceeding with the lesson." Alldredge MBE:: BRENT, the new school teacher, had heard the unkind remarks made by Ted and noticed the amused faces of the children. Her mother heart was touched with pity as she said to herself, "Poor, neglected waif. Surely there is a way to get beneath that ungainliness and touch a responsive chord to that better inner self. For if God created us equal, he must have forgotten Tom or else fate has indeed been unkind." Her heart warmed toward him and she determined to find a way. Day after day she studied "Shiftless Tom," as he was nicknamed by his classmates. ?And each day he became more of a problem. Still she did not give up but her determination grew. She must help him to find himself. He should not grow to manhood in that hopeless, careless way. She must learn more about him. She decided to detain him, if possible, after the rest were gone and by questions perhaps bring out the facts which she needed. 'One afternoon as the students filed out of the little room she touched Tom upon the shoulder and asked him to remain. Immediately she saw the smouldering fire in his eyes light up and then die down again as he slumped into his seat. "What's the matter now? I ain't done nothin'. But I guess you're like all the rest. Somehow I thought you might be a bit different, but it's no use. I'm no account nohow. That's what they all say, even my dad. I'm sort of used to it, so fire away." MOTHER LOVE Tears filled her eyes as she sat down beside him and slowly shook her head. "I didn't keep you in because I wanted to punish you, Tom. But 1 thought perhaps you would tell me something about yourself so we could be better acquainted. I want to be your friend." Tom timidly looked into her face and then said awkwardly: "You look as though you sort of meant it and no foolin', Let's shake. But pshaw, it ain't like havin' a real pal nohow, someone to go fishin' with and one that you can tell your secrets to. You wouldn't enjoy them kind of things." "Why not, Tom? I love to fish and all my life I've been wanting a boy to tell me his secrets." Again her eyes filled and she choked back the lump that rose in her throat... OM moved uneasily as he looked up at her. He had never seen anyone cry. But the next moment he was reassured by her smile. "Perhaps we can go fishing some Saturday and I'll make some cookies ? and we'll eat lunch under the trees, while you tell me the names' of the different [birds and wild lowers. How would you like that?" "Gee, but you're a corker. Let's shake on that too." "And now, om, as we walk home together tell me about your mother. Surely she is your friend?" A tear slowly trickled down his cheek, but he hastily brushed {it away as he said in a husky voice: "I ain't never had one since I can remember. Sometimes when I feel lonesome and I see other kids with theirs, I try to think what mine was like. And then I see as pretty a face as God ever made, if there 265 is a God. But I guess there ain't none or else He forgot me." Again he brushed away a tear as if ashamed of his unmanliness. "Forgive me, Tom, I didn't know. But perhaps since we are both lonely we might belong to each other. You see I must have been forgotten, too, for I've never known what it meant to be called "Mother". Yet often in my dreams I've seen the face of my son and then when | waked my arms were empty. If he'd only given me one boy like you, Tom, I'd have been the happiest mother in the whole world." Without a word Tom grasped her hand in his own dirty one and then dashed away home. "Poor boy! But I have reached him at last," she whispered to herself, as she stood looking after him. HE following morning Tom came earlier than usual. His hair was combed and his face and hands looked as if they had been scrubbed for an hour. Instead of slouching in as usual he walked with his head up. With an understanding smile Mrs. Brent greeted him and her heart warmed more than ever to the motherless boy. He wore the same ungainly clothes but even the students noticed the change and instead of the usual titter they looked in astonishment. Even Ted refrained from his usual taunting remarks. Tom's father began to look upon his son with new interest as he noticed that each morning he became more careful in his person. And instead of the old indifference he greeted him with a shy "Hello Dad," followed by a sheepish grin. Perhaps he would amount to something after all thought his father. One morning Mrs. Brent was surprised to find that Tom was not 266 in his seat at the usual hour. She wondered if he could be ill. But a moment later her face lighted up as she saw him push open the door. She could scarcely believe her eyes, but there he stood carefully dressed in new overalls and clean shirt. He was received with dignity by the students and Mrs. Brent was saying over and over to herself: "He has found himself at last." She and Tom could scarcely wait for their usual trip into the woods. How fresh and restful to sit under the trees while the birds warbled their songs of joy. And more and more Tom opened up his heart to that mother love which warmed and cheered him. He was fired with new ambition as she unconsciously pointed out higher ideals to him. He determined to live up to them and secretly vowed that he would someday make her proud of him. As the season drew to a close they both looked reluctantly into the future for their paths must separate. Tom's father had promised to send him to school in a neighboring town while she must continue her work without him. The closing of school was at hand and Tom was graduated with honors. He received his diploma while his father watched his manly figure with growing pride. The years that followed were busy ones for "Aunty Brent" as she was now lovingly called by all of the village. But she was never too busy to follow Tom in his career. Proudly his father told her of the record he was making and he never failed to express his gratitude for the part she had played in Tom's life. From high school he went to college RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and finished at the head of the class. His name was upon the lips of many who had once shunned and ridiculed him. It was Mother's Day. The little valley was bathed in sunshine. The birds sang their songs of greeting and all the world seemed happy. But somehow Aunty Brent felt lonely indeed. In fact Mother's Day always saddened her for it reminded her of the empty years ahead of her. Why had she been denied the greatest gift of all?motherhood? Why was her life so barren? And yet how full it had been in service to others. "All mothers are remembered today by some little token of love," she said bitterly to herself. "The whole world is paying homage to them while I, who would have gladly given my life to have shared that blessing, must live and die childless." "Why could not one little neglected waif claim my heart?" She thought of the early years of her married life. She and John had been so happy together, but as the years rolled by and they began to realize that they were deprived of the great blessing of parenthood, the first shadow was cast over their lives. Still they did not give up hope until John had been called away, thus leaving her doubly bereft. She pushed back her breakfast untouched and slowly began her preparations for the services. The Sunday before it had been announced that there would be a special speaker for the occasion. She took her seat in the back of the hall while the mothers were ushered to the honored seats in the front. The program commenced MOTHER LOVE with the usual tributes. Songs and stories were rendered by old and young, while love glowed from their faces. Daintily dressed children gave a beautiful carnation to each mother. Never had Aunty Brent felt more lonely. The speaker was announced. "We have selected as our special speaker this morning one who has never known a mother's care. But we are very proud of him and his accomplishments. We now present to you Mr. Thomas Kearn, known in his school days as Tom. As he rose to his feet and stood in silence looking over the congregation his eyes finally rested upon Aunty Brent, seated in the back of the hall. Her heart thumped until she could scarcely breathe as she recognized her Tom, so tall and stately. There was a mutual understanding as they remembered their pledge to each other. Tears gathered in his manly eyes as he quickly made his way down the aisle and gave her a son's kiss. Then before the astonished audi267 ence, conducted her to the front. With his arm about her he said. "God gave to the world many wonderful mothers whose children will live to call them blessed. Some are young and others have grown old in service. May those sons and daughters in turn, serve them in their declining years. But no less great is that childless mother whose very soul cries out for that blessing which is denied her, yet in her mother love reaches out to those who are neglected. May God bless Aunty Brent whose love was all I knew. To her I owe all that I am." Once more he stooped and with eyes swimming with tears, which he was not ashamed to show, he placed within her hand a bouquet of carnations, the loveliest of them all. And as the beautiful strains of "That Wonderful Mother of Mine," echoed through the room he proudly bore her down the aisle.