Mothers in Israel. In this series of articles, we now present the name and por- trait ofour honored President Emmeline B. Wells. February is her birth month, and it is fitting that we link her thus to this day and time. We have all heard and known much of Sister Wells as a writer and publicist, but few outside of her immediate circle know what a wonderful contribution she has made to the Church and to her country through her numerous and able posterity. Prac- tically all of her descendants are superior in intellect many of the; daughters are very fair to look upon. President Wells had one son born in Nauvoo, who died in infancy. She was the former — wife of the then presiding Bishop of the Church Bishop Newel K. Whitney, by whom she had two lovely daughters, Isabel and — — Melvina. The oldest Isabel who afterwards married the well- known public citizen, Septimus W. Sears, was born in a wagon on the block where now stands the Hotel Utah. Mrs. Sears has had eight children and seven grandchildren. She is spending the later years of her life in free and happy service in the Salt Lake Temple, where she is honored and loved by all her associates. Her sister, Mrs. Mell Woods, has had five children and has five grandchildren. She also has always been fair to look upon, and is a leader in social and literary circles in her home in northern Idaho. — One of her daughters Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon is locally— famous as a gifted writer, an excellent public speaker, a wise legis- lator and publicist, a devoted mother of twelve splendid sons and daughters and eleven grandchildren. She is the mother and grand- niother of twin boys, whose picture we here present. Mrs. Cannon kindly has prepared the accompanying poetic pen-picture of her mother, as a mother. All of the children and grandchildren of Mrs. Wells possess marked literarv and artistic ability, and all are proof of the law of Z ~ '^ :/; — U5 <u ^^ "^ OJ D « o, "^ ti — MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 65 inheritance. The two daughters who died in their young woman- hood, were prominent figures in the Hfe of this pioneer city and state — "Emmie," as she was famiharly known, heing a leader in the young circle which formed the ol Wasatch Literary Society. 1 She was beloved of all who knew her. "Louie" was as beautifid and gifted a girl as ever graced a mortal home. Xone who ever saw or knew her but admired and loved her with unspeakable af- fection none can forget or cease to love her. ; Both were gifted singers, and Louie was acknowledged to be one of Utah's finest contralto singers. We are pleased to present the full list of our remarkable Presic^ent's gifts to the world, the Church, and the nation: ^frs. Wells had one son born in Nauvoo, who died in infancy. She hi 1 two daughters, as has been said, by Bishop Whitney, Isibel and Melvina. After the death of Bishop Whitney in the \'alley, she married Daniel H. Wells. By him she had three daughters Em- : meline, Annie, and Louise. Her oldest daughter, Isabel Modelena Whitney, married Sep- timus W. Sears, April, 1869, and their children were as follows: Sidney Whitney, Herbert Whitney, Isabel S., Septimus Whitney, Lucile L., Emma W., Eugene S., and Brenton AI. E. Isabel S. married Charles W. F. Buckholz an:l three chil- dren were born: Marian, Lucile, Hermann. Septimus married Esther Julian; one boy, Sidney R. EmmaW. married John Gillette Roberts two children, Mar- ; garet and Ruth. Brenton M. E., married Inez A'^an Sant and has one cliiUl Robert. Eugene S. married Eleanor Isabel Rhein. — Mrs. Wells' second daughter Melvina Caroline Whitney niarried Wm. Woods> and their children were as follows Daisie: D., \'erona M.. Leslie and Winnifred I. and Percival. Daisie married Harry Allen and ha:l two children — Martin and Thomas. A'erona AL married Barrymore Nugent Hillard and had the following children: Llelen, Robert and Barrymore. Enimeline and Louise died in their votmg womanhood, beloved and mourned by all. Annie Wells married John O. Cmnon, and their children are: Geoi'ge O. Cannon. I ouie CAndrew. AlTrgtret C. Clayton, Dan- i( H. Cannon. Fl'-'^nor \(VH' Cuvon Gl-^ceased), Emmeline C. 1 Alartineau, Cavendish W. Camion, Katharine Cannon, Abram H. Co,v^-l^v. David W. Cannon. John O. Cannon, Jr.. and Theodore L. Cannon. The grandchildren are as follows: deorge O. Can- non, Jr., Woodward D. Cannoii, Shirley Cannon, Richard C. An- drew. Denton C. Andrew, Elizabeth Andrew, John O. .Andrew, William D. Clayton, Ruth Clayton, Sarah Clayton and Alary Martineau (deceased). 
 AN INTIMATE SKETCH OF HOME LIFE. On the twenty-ninth of the current month the venerable presi- dent of the ReHef Society, and the subject of this sketch, will have attained the ripe age of eighty-eight years, almost a century of life, filled to the very limit with wonderful experiences and activ- ity. One who has given so very much of her time and talents in public service is thought of largely, if not entirely, in a public way, and yet the very sweetest and most delightful touches of her nature are those of home life, where, in that broad and tender field,her spirit shone in untrammeled and perfect motherhood. It is not to me an easy task to draw aside the curtain and disclose home pictures. An innate delicacy, deep sentiment and peculiar sensitiveness surrounds the homelife, making it too sacred a thing for public view in every family especially do I think this true in this par- ; ticular instance, because there has been so marked a difference between her public and her private life, and because those traits and high ideals, which at the same time allow public service, shield with equal zeal the innermost thoughts and activities of the home. It is, therefore, with a degree of hesitancy, and yet with the most tender and sympathetic feeling, that I comply with the request to sive to the readers of The Relief Society Magazine some glimpses into the home life of my mother. Like the princess in the fascinating fairy tale, "The Sleeping Beauty," I would ask you, dear reader, to close your eyes and go with me into the realm of memory. Memory, after all, is more or less a fairy tale, because all the sorrows and trials and pains, are so mellowed with time that their sharp points are cut away, and the grayness and mist of years make them sacred and beau- tiful, while the joys and pleasures and delights shine with even b'ighter luster. 'Twas New Year's Eve. The younger children had at last retired, leaving rather reluctantly, because they knew full well that the living room would soon be a scene of pleasant entertain- ment and good cheer for the older members of the household, as they waited for the sound of bells and whistles which would usher in another cycle of time. The coals glowed brightly in the big fire place, and the odor of bayberry candle, burning according to old New England cus- tom down to the socket, filled the room with fragrant incense. Just the hour and environment for sweet recollections and fond mem- ories to throng the mind and as we waited and looked at the very; pretty little figure of mother, sitting close to the hearth, looking into the tumbling red coals, we knew something rich and enter- taining was in her thought. :; MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 67 Reverently we closed our books when mother began to speak "We, in our New England home, always made a great deal of New Year's and Thanksgiving. It was then we feasted and gave our presents, when I was a little girl." "But," I asked, "what did you do on Christmas?" "Oh, we kept Christmas just like Sunday, a very sober, sol- emn occasion. I believe the big parlor used to be opened, and we were allowed to go in and read. I had a perfect horror of that parlor, because it was always kept closed to us children, except on Sundays, and holidays, and even as a little child I made up my mind that when I owned a home, no room would be too good for the children." "It never was, mother, I'm sure of that, nor anything of yours because with you it was always the children first, and my, ; what splendid things you used to do for us! But the best of all were the songs and poems you taught us while you sat sewing or mending, and we played around you. Do you know when I first started to school I could recite 'Lochinvar's Ride,' 'Twenty Years Ago,' 'Bingen on The Rhine,' and ever so many other pretty poems, and my little friends thought me wonderful. When my teacher asked me where I learned these things she thought you wonderful, and came to borrow your books to use in the school, only to find that in the rich storehouse of your mind were the beautiful songs and verses you had taught your children." "Yes," she replied, "memory is a good substitute for books when one has had to leave them on the way, as I did. I felt worse to leave my books than any other of my belongings, when we were driven from Nauvoo, and in those days there were not many books either, like there are now. That is one thing I always have tried to teach you children, to have a love and care for good books. Once I loaned a Bible, it was just a small Bible, bound in yellow leather, and when I got it back there were some leaves torn out and do you know I was so indignant that I never loaned that family another thing! Perhaps, after all, that had a good efifect, for they were continually borrowing everything, and I never could refuse the worst of neighbors the least little thing, if I had it to lend." "Perhaps," I ventured to say, "you generously.needed a shock, for I well remember seeing you sew one night by a dip-light while your neighbor, giving a party, was using your last two tal- low candles in your best and only candlesticks." "Goodness me, the sewing I used to do by those dreadful dip- lis:hts, rows upon rows of fine tuckingfor shirt bosoms for Bishop Whitney, and the boys, Horace and Orson, and such tucks and ruffles as we used to put in our baby clothes — whipping, over- casting, hemming, and running stitches with the finest of needles - -I don't suppose you girls could even thread them now." 68 RliLIIil' SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "No," 1 laughed, "the sewing- machine is good enough for me in these rushing days but you taught your girls to sew as beau- ; tifully as you did yourself; only, hand sewing now is an art, ont a necessity." Slowly she rose, that graceful little woman, and walked across the room to look out upon the night and, standing there in the; bow of the window holding back the holly-draped curtains, which fell in folds around her, it was like a framed picture of the long — ago her beautiful hair, as white as the feathery snow without, which the wind was piling in huge drifts against the fences, crowning her furrowed face which, as she turned, was expressive of the thouohts within. "Sometimes," she said, "I feel like 'the last leaf upon the tree," when I think that scarcely any of the friends of my genera- tion are left to recall with me the days that are gone. There was Mother Whitney, then Louisa, Martha, Lydia Ann and Han- nah, women with whom I lived in closest intimacy, closer than sis- ters, rearing our children in the same household, all gone and; your father, too. all save Susan and myself, and both of us nearly ninety. Then the belove friends with whom so many years I 1 worked in the Relief Society: Sister Eliza. Aunt Zina, Sister Kimball, Aunt l^athsheba. Sister Richards, Sister Home, and oh, so many others whose names I now recall, and whom I loved as much as if bound by kindred ties, closer, perhaps, because our faith and work were so in tune with our ever}^ day life. They all are gone, and you, the women of this generation, speak of me as the link between the present and the past." "Well, grandn-'a," said one of the boys, "you're sure a pre- cious link, all set with brilliants which illumine this generation and generations yet to come." The sweet face briohtened with this little flattering hurl, as in less sober accents she said:"Speaking of illuminations, you re- member, of course, the night J^ne came home from his mission, and the big house at the head of Main Street was illuminated with rows of candles in every window, in honor of the event. People came from all over the city just to see the illumination. Compare that with what Ave see now. when everv night on top of the Te-iToleton. where the old house stoofb there are rows of won- derfrl lio-bts of which no one thinks at all." "Why," asked one of the boys, "illuminate because June came home?" "P)e-"ause," she nuietlv answere b again seating herself, "June was the fi'"st of all the bovs in the family to go on a mission, and every mother in the family was just as interested as if he were ber own son. That is the way we taught our children, that each l)rother and ^sister was just as dear and precious as those of their own mother, and occasions like this brought us all together in: MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 69 closer harmony. He came about seven o'clock, and there was to be a big family dinner in the long dining room. I remember T had been cooking all day.'' "( )h, grandma," one of the girls interrupted, "you never!" cooked "Indeed, I did, though I must say I never liked cooking very much. Still I always made the dough-nuts for these parties, and prepared the dishes of baked beans. T suppose that's because of my New England training." "Well," I said, "your dough-nuts were the best ever, and so were your 'apple fritters' and 'minute pudding' goodness, mother,; 1 had almost forgotten, myself, that you knew how to cook!" "Well," one of the boys remarked, "you surely had accom- plishments. I wish we had some of those fritters now." "Perhaps if you had, they wouldn't seem so good compared with the fine fruit cake, mince pies, and other things you have today. It's like the candle to this wonderful electric light which with a touch of the button illuminates a room to a hundred candle power." Continuing, she said "I wonder if you remember the front room in the old house lieforeit was remodeled, and the fireplace with the andirons? Those old andirons were my mother's, brought all the wa}^ from Massachusetts." "Yes, I guess I do," I answered; "it was on that chimney place we hung our stockings and in front of that fireplace you read to us and taught us how to read, and it was there you taught us how to pray. They talk of kindergartens in these days, as if it were a new method. I think, mother, you always had the method of teaching every thing as if it were play instead of work. You made it all so interesting. That is how the history of our people seems so much a part of us, because when you were busy with your house-work or sewing, at the same time you would tell us such beautiful stories, not always, but often church history, and with it all such wonderful testimonies of the gospel that we can never forget but must needs carry in our memories and tell again to our children. In your quiet way there was always so much reverence and respect for those in authority, when you mentioned their names, that I used to approach the men and women wdio were leaders in the Church with awe, almost fear, because T deemed them so much greater and better than we were. I am glad of that, glad in my heart that at your knee and from vour teaching I learned the proper respect for the authority of the priesthood and the reverence due to those whose age and posi- tion entitle them to such respect." "But." puts in thoughtful Louise, "when you beo^un yoiu" " editorship and public work, these things must have changed 
 "Oh no, not much you see the older girls were married, and; the younger ones were in school all day, and with a good maid at home I think I had more time than ever with my girls, for if they were not helping me in the office I was helping them with their studies. Then as they grew up, our home was a delightful gath- ering place for young people. Do you know, children, three liter- ary societies have been organized in my home, the first, the Wa- satch Literary Society, which is sometimes spoken of as a fore- runner of the Mutual Improvement Association? That's where your Uncle Ort and Uncle Bud began their literary work, and your Uncle Hebe and Laron Cummings and others first discovered their histrionic ability. We had some accomplishments in our own family, too, the girls could play and sing and recite, and they brought to the home some of the brightest and finest girls and boys in the community." "But, grandma, did you stay in the room with the young folks all the time?" asked an inquisitive youth. "Yes, if I wanted to we used to have some very fine times, ; [)laying intellectual games —not cards and nonsense like you do now, and we used to have some very amusing and entertaining conversations. Then after I had my little paper, my office was a place where numberless inquiring strangers came to learn of our people it was like a bureau of information and among them have; ; been many distinguished men and women whom it has been my great pleasure to invite to my home and introduce to my girls. Let me see, what was the name of that beautiful southern woman writer? Oh, yes. Madam Lavere she was perfectly delighted be- ; cause I gave her a ghmpse of a 'Mormon' household, and she wrote me a delightful letter afterward thanking me for the oppor- tunity; and so did Kate Tannet Woods, Edmund Russell, Kate Field, and many others; and these things no doubt were rather nice occasions for my girls, but not half the education nor the value that the beautiful little meetings were which the sisters often held in my house, and where you were permitted to be present and to hear the glorious testimonies borne by Sister Home, and Sister Eliza Snow, and the rich history told by Sarah M. Kimball, Sarep- ta Heywood, Elizabeth Howard, and others; and the wonderful singing of Mother Whitney, with its beautiful interpretation by Aunt Zina." "Yes, I know, mother dear, and all these privileges I hope I ever will be grateful for, but more grateful still that I have such a wonderful little woman for a mother, whose great dower to her children, her testimony of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the teachings to them of the gospel of Jesus Christ, has made them rich in deed, and whose tender sympathy and strength of purpose have never failed them, in sorrow or in joy; and who, among her many graces and accomplishments, can MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 71 boast of a loving posterity of six children, twenty-five grand- children and twenty-five great-grandchildren to rise and call her blessed. But goodness, the whistles are blowing! It's a happy New Year to you, and now, good night and pleasant dreams." As wideawake as ever, she answers, "It is good morning, and the dreams — well, I've shown you some pictures, any way." . Annie Wells Cannon. ECHO OF THE GENEALOGICAL CONGRESS. We are still in close touch with our recent Genealogical Con- gress in San Francisco, this time through the January issue of the Utah Genealogical Magazine, which contains the proceedings of Utah Geenalogical Day, at the Exposition. That was indeed an epochal day for Utah. And' we suggest to our readers that they secure this number of the Genealogical Magazine, for it is full of vitally interesting matter for us all. We have often been asked why we did not include the picture of the genial and able railroad official— — Mr. C. L. McFaul who managed the details of our excursion so successfully and delight- fully. We, therefore, present to you, with our mutual congratulations and good will, Mr. Charles L. McFaul. Mr. McFaul, the ladies of the ReHef Society! Mr. McFaul was all that other accomodat- — ing and capable railroad men are and more. There were many tiresome problems, many unlooked-for complications, much unnecessary trouble caused, which most men would have dismissed with a careless or curt word. Not so with Mr. McFaul. He was courteous and helpful under even the most trying conditions, and stimulated everyone else to be likewise, through his unfailing good humor and patience. We shall not soon forget the gentleman nor the debt of gratitude we owe him. We call particular attention to the article on the work done by the ReHef Society Extension Department in genealogy, in the Utah Genealogical Magazine, for this will be the foundation for our future historians who will turn with close interest to the gene- sis of a movement which has begun, but which will never end while time lasts, ^^'c' arc at the threshold of mighty events.