GENEALOGY. Family Associations. Most women, when approached with a suggestion to begin their temple work, make the excuse that they are not rich, are not the heir, or that they live at a long distance from a temple. These excuses can all be met with the advice to form a Family Organization. What is impossible to one lone individual becomes easy and pleasant when undertaken by a well-organized group of persons. The single, small contributions make a great sum. The heir will usually be glad to unite with all members of the family, and appoint a temple committee who will have charge of the vari- ous phases of the temple work for the family. Genealogical super- visors are requested to study the chapter on Family Organization, found in the Genealogical Lesson Book, to present this week's lesson. Suggestions 1. After explaining the lesson, let the supervisor proceed to organize a model familv organization right in the class. Let nomi- 
 nations be made for a president, two vice-presidents, secretary and treasurer. Then appoint, or nominate, three to form a Temple Committee, and three for an x^musement Committee. This object lesson will do more towards teaching each woman how to organize her own family, than all the theory in the book. 2. Every woman in the Relief Society is requested to spend at least one day in official work for the dead during 1916. By official, we mean work done for the Relief Society charity lists, which are names furnished to the Genealogical Committee by those who are not financially able to do their own temple work. Where there are no such lists in a ward, they can be obtained from the Chief Recorder in any one of the four temples. Where the sister lives too far from a temple to comply with this suggestion, she may donate sufficient means to the Gene- alogical Committee of her ward, which will provide a substitute for her. Our reports are arranged to cover these official days spent in the Temple, as well as other official days thus spent. The Jordan and Davis, Liberty and Cache stakes lead all others in this beautiful charity temple work. QUESTIONS. Have you a family organization? If not, why not? Why can we do more in an organized way than as individ- uals? Who is the proper heir in a family? What does your lesson-book say about Family Organization? Did you enjoy and understand the model organization just formed in your class? Have you spent one official day in the temple this year? If not, why not? What do we mean by "official day"? What has your ward done about temple work in the past? What plans can you suggest to improve your work in this line? OUT-OF-DOOR STUDY. WINTER WALK. Give a prose sketch or poem on your "Winter Walk." A. Bring a drawing or picture you have made of something B. you saw during your "Winter Walk." C. What vital impression was made upon you by this ex- perience? What use will this winter landscape study be to you when you go to the next art exhibition? GUIDE LESSONS. 115 D. Describe a winter landscape that has deeply impressed you at some time of life. A WINTER WALK. The writer took her "Winter Walk" in December. It was not a 'propitious day for study of the snow blanket, but excellent for observation of winter mountain foliage. We went in search of winter decoration for luncheon tables for a very great and festive occasion. Luckily there were several artists on the lunch- eon committee, and there was no money with which to buy the usual cut flowers. The artists determined that this decoration should not be commonplace. We shook or scraped the light snow from the wild mountain holly, (Oregon Grapes), now green, and scarlet, and satin- leave L We gathered stacks to take back to town. We gathered armsfull of the low, bushy green "box" growing under the bare n-aple and scrub-oak. Down in the sheltered banks of the creek, we pulled, from clumps of joint grass, the tall daintily marked pines —fit for pipes of Pan, had the weather not been too cold for piping!From long stretches of wild rose gardens we stripped twigs (thorned, too), with the wild, read roseberries. We went home with arms filled, and the decorations were not common- place, and were much admired. MARCH LANDSCAPE STUDY. The study of the March landscape has most to do with the sky. The sky must be the theme. The ground is neutral in color. The interest of this month centers in windy weather. The sky shows queer-shaped patches of deep blues, and ultra marines, and splotches of purples, and gray, and big white billowy clouds. Take your March walk on a windy wash-day, after your clothes are hung out. Take the little "finder." Look for a picture with the line of clothes blowing straight out in the foreground. In the background, you will note the cloud-filled sky will make a repetition of your line of blowing clothes both in color and feeling of motion. A wonderful time of day for this picture is often in the twilight with cottage window red with the lamplight within, in the background. Or you may find an attractive foreground in a line of purple willows following creeks or surrounding ponds. The sky is sure to complete the picture, if there are clouds. The snowing and blowing day makes a beautiful subject for pictures. A. You should find at least two pictures in your March Walk and tell which has the best foreground and which the best background. 
 B. Prepare yourself to describe a windy day's sky. C. Study bursts of sunshine and sha^'ow. When clouds ob- scure the sun's rays, it is called a "Gray Day. Many- love this manifestation of nature. D. Study to describe two "March Gray Days." E. Prepare yourself to describe a scene with sunshine burst- ing- through dark clouds. Don't make much of the ground, but confine yourself to telling the color and motion of the clou Is. TWILIGHT STUDY. A. Make a special study of March twilight on a blowy, cloudy evening, just before rain. Have a house with firelight shining through the windov/ and there will be red or yellow in the sky to repeat the color of the firelight. B. Make a study of twilight indoors with blinds up and a firelight. Have a family around the fire, and note the effect of the two lights, and the shadows made by the firelight. Be pre- pared to describe such a scene. What is the Jacobean style? Describe the Classic Period. Contrast the modern method of building and the medieval method ( note 2, page 125 ). W'hat is the style of St. Pauls, Figs. 4 and 5, Lon'^^on? Name its architecture. Describe its exterior and in- terior. Radcliffe Library, Oxford. Fig. 6. The Classic Revivals. Describe the Bank of England, and name its architect. Tell what you can of the architecture of the British [Museum. What can you say of the Mansion House? Fig. 7. Fitz William, Eg. 8. Describe the Victorian Gothic. Tell what you can of the Parliament House, Westminster, Fig. 9. Tn what ways do the present British architecture an French arch- 1 itecture surpass the other? LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in March. HOME-MAKING AS A PROFESSION. f. As a Trade or Profession. 1. Meaning of trade. 2. Meaning of profession. a. Learned profession. b. Unlearned profession. c. Home making classified. 3. The human importance of the work. a. Preparations necessary. GUIDE LESSONS. 11/ IT. Methods of Acquiring- Preparati'on. 1. In youth. a. At home. In the schools. b. 2.In maturity. a. In the school of experience. b. Desire for improvement. c. Means of improvement. d. Interest of church. III. The Beauty of Home Work. 1. Drudgery vs. routine. a. Meaning- of drudgery. b. Meaning- of routine. 2. Cultivate desire. a. To learn. b. To practice. Home-Making as a Profession. Roll call: Why I am Glad I am a Woman, or. Reasons for Joy in Womanhoocl, or. What may this Study of Home Economics (';) ''' nie "'' Home Economics stands for the ideal home life, for to 'av uii- hampered by the traditions of the past." /. Home Economics as a Trade or Profession. 1. A trade is an occupation in which the worker is instructe ^ in the performance of certain tasks with the responsibility or power of directing assumed by another. Such is the trade of carpenter, mason, brick-layer, plumber. 2. The work which involves the responsibilit}^ of having th? many tasks correctly done is in the nature of a profession. Thus the work of the architect or contractor is a profession. fa) The term ''learned profession" is often used. That in- volves the spending of much time, and may be money, in the learn- ing of the chosen profession, and is usually done by means of at- attendance at schools and colleges. Such is the profession of law, me'Hcine, architecture and all the liberal arts. (b) One may learn to assume the responsibility in the per- formance of great tasks by hard knocks in the school of exper- ience onlv. Such would not be termed a learned profession. Th ^ Inisiness of a contractor may l)e classed here. (c) In the light of the above definitions where may the great work of home-making be classed? It is simply universal: that is, there are workers of all classes and intelligences engage ' in this occupation. But the woman who is the most successful in making a home is in every sense engaged in a learned profes- 
 sion —the greatest one on earth. For she has to initiate, plan, direct, and carry out operations which involve in greater or less degree all the sciences and arts known to man. She also deals with those subtler spiritual powers which make or mar his per- sonal happiness and influence his soul's salvation. 3. The importance of this work, as regards children, can scarcely be over-estimated. Mrs. Fisher has indicated the great responsibiHty of parents when she says: "We might conceivably have undertaken to build railway bridges, even though the lives of multitudes depended on them we might have become lawyers and; settled people's material affairs for them or even as doctors set- ; tled the matter of their physical life or death. But to be re- sponsible to God, to society, and to the soul in question, for the health, happiness, moral growth and usefulness of a human soul, what reflective parent among the whole army of us has not had moments of heart-sick terror at the reahzation of what he has been set to do?" (a) Can any sane person feel that this important work should be undertaken at marriage by girls who rely upon chance occupa^'ons at home, supplemented by the much abused "mother instinct"? Do you not feel that all the long years of youth should be devoted to preparing, in a pleasant though serious manner, for this beautiful work of mother and home-maker? And that all during the years of life one should be alert and active in securing improvements in the performance of this God-given occupation. One may never know too much about it. "There should be no more question as to the need of education and training for the woman who selects the food, clothing and works of art, which minister to the highest welfare of a family, than there is for the need of study on the part of the farmer, manufacturer or the artist who produces them." //. Methods of Acquiring. ,^ (1) The young woman of today has no excuse for answer- ing "not prepared" when life demands that she assumes her natural place as home-maker. '-- (a) The ideal way for her to learn her profession is to be a willing helper in a well ordered home always as Mother's first assistant. There she learns, through actual hand contact, the methods and the practice of the scientific truth she has learne 1 in the school room. 4. Mother hasn't time to teach her the theory as well as the practice — even though she knows it. So the schools must sup- plement this home training, and give boys and girls an intimate understanding of these truths that they are to use most in their after life. All truth is good, but life is so fleeting that one must choose that most worth while. GUIDE LESSONS. 119 (a) Those who are mothers and grandmothers today need not feel cheated because the schools didn't teach such things in their time. All that God requires of any of his children is that they make the most use of their opportunities, be they few or many. Our grandmothers, many of them, were beautiful housekeepers and splendid mothers. They learned their lessons in the hard school of experience and with the price of much unnecessary suf- fering. Their daughters may now start life with much of the wisdom they end it with, but the daughters must go on, improve an learn other lessons. 1 (b) All that is necessary is that the desire for improvement remain with one to the end of- life, for the absence of growth is death. (c) There are many ways in which the mature woman of today may keep up-to-date in matters pertaining to better homes. First, she should keep an open mind and, by means of observation of others in their homes and methods of daily life, find things to avoid, or to accept and make part of her own life. There are so many good books and magazines published that one can never hope to keep up with all of them. But one should be alert to find new books that will be of particular benefit and also if possible to be conversant with at least one good home magazine. In addition there are the extension and correspondence schools provided by the Government and State educational au- thorities which make possible the bringing of new truth and in- spiration to our very doors. So the wide-awake woman of today, be she 16, or 60, or 90 years old, cannot fail to improve her con- dition of life unless she is wilfully blind or lazy. Just a mention must be made of the splendid work being done by our own Church in providing through all its auxiliary organ- ization lessons which, if accepted, will make the life of every wo- man in the community richer and more truly useful. in. A book could be written on the beaut}^ and benefits of home work. Here let it be understood that no work in which man engages on earth can give the soul satisfaction, the complete joy which is experienced by the mother who has raised a noble family and always made a happy home for them. (1) And in no sense can this work be termed drudgery, unless the one who undertakes it is totally unprepared for it. The performance of a task by rote, in which the mind takes little or no account, may be termed drudgery. To avoid this, the first es- sential is the proper training. "Whenever one's knowledge of a subject passes the stage of drudgery and becomes a science, its performance immediately becomes a pleasure. The ability to do a thing in the highest known perfection, or even a little better than any one else, is always a source of delight, and it matters little what that something is." 120 RELIRI' SOCUiTY MAGAZINE. (a) All human work possesses a certain amount of routine of work that must be performed over and over again in the same manner. This is unavoidable with conditions of mortality. Even the artist who paints the most glorious conceptions of nature must clean his brushes and his palate and even his studio. If he cannot afiford an assistant, he does it himself. Yet one never hears an artist going around complaining about the drudgery of cleaning his materials! All work must accept its known routine, but the worker must use brains to make the routine as little as possible and to keep its place in the back ground as does the artist. 2. The essential thing for all to learn is to love their work, to see its possibilities as well as its difficulties, and to make their work their servant instead of their master. This can be done by the home-maker as well as by the doctor. (a) Indeed the first essential to all good work is joy in the doing of it. So the girl must learn her job just as seriouslv as the boy learns his. In this the present mothers can do much in n-'aking home work as pleasant as possible. (b) Practice every day finding something uplifting and helpful to your loved ones and do not hesitate to let your daughter or her friend hear you speak of this phase of home work. We — always find what we look for if it is improvement why it is at; our very door knocking for entrance. Will you not let it enter? QUESTIONS. 1. Is home-making a trade, or a profession, and why"^ Name some trades and professions not mentioned in the lesson. 2. Give your opinion as to the sufficiency of "mother in- stinct or "home instinct." in a girl's life. 3. What is the most important phase of home-making, and \vh\' is it so? 4. Do you think home-making shoul be studied as are all I professions of men, and why? 5. What is the ideal way of becoming proficient in home- make? Discuss. 6. How may the oh'er women of tolay improve their home conditions? a. What need has a perfect housekeeper of studving home economics? 7. Do you enjoy housework, and why? a. What is the part you like best, and why? b. What is the part you like least, and why? 8. Define drudgery an 1 routine. a. Under which class do household tasks fall, and why? GUIDIi LBSSOXS. 121 *). How may the love of home duties be planted in the lives ( f young- men and women? a. How may the mother of a girl "who hates house work" change this fatal opinion. 10. ^n vour opinion, must every human l^eing, who is born a woman, engage in house work? a." H she truly dislikes it, may she with honor engage in the work she loves, and have her home work done for her? What is your solution of this dif- ficulty? 11. Are you doing all in your power to make possible bet- ter homes in your community? Name five ways in which you nii:^ht imjirove in this respect? THOU SHALT BE A BLESSING. (Gen. 12:2.) Thon shalt be a blessing; Let thine heart be strong; God shall s-ive thee courage, Fill thy Hps with song. Fear not thou the future, Tlirough each clay shall shine Tokens of God's p^oodness Over tliee and tliine. Thou shalt be a blessing Through the corning year; He the great Debverer Ever will be near; Strengthening each purpose That is good and true. And in times of weakness He will bear thee through. Tl^nu shalt be a blessing; Fear not thou to see Tasks yet unattempted, Wliich are waiting thee. What thy need requireth Surely He will send, Who with watchful kindness ShaU thy ways attend. Thou sliaU be a blessing; .'\nd in days to come. When God calls His servants To their blessed Home, He will not forget thee. Or thy work of love; All shall be rewarded Li those courts above. — Selectee, Attention To Subscribers Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 1 % discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscrip- tions sent into this office must be accompanied with $ 1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves. Please Use Our Subscription Blanks UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters —and sons—to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation, Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. '" Utah's Most Popular Mui'u House"' Here are some o£ the things we are going to _ ^ __. ir^lOrr Fin out and man coupon today. give away FKLL »• -,...,. be Wing Machine Daynes-Beebe; Music Co 45 Main St. Salt Lake. Utah. R.S.M. D f • . rvelrigeraiOi: Please send me full information as to how ^ : j ^^^ obtain one or more of these beautiful Morris Chair \ premiums FREE. Vac^umCleaner | l^^rZIZZZZZZZ^^^^^ Hall Chime Clock Kitchen Cabinet You don't have to purchase o?ie penny's -^ "^-yHan uuorth, to get premiums. "Older than the State of Utah" — The Most Interesting, Z. C. M. I. Inspiring and Beauti- ful Scenic Sections School Shoes of the West ARE REACHED VIA For Boys Including Are made for service Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon they will keep the boys' Shoshone Falls feet warm and dry. Yellowstone Park Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River Z. C. M. I. Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts ALLOVERS Pacific Coast Excursions are the ideal Daily to November 30th play garment For Dtstriftive LiUrature, aidrtss for boys and D. E. Burley, girls. Cheap, General Passenger Agent, O. S L... Salt LaksCity, Utah serviceable. English and American ARCHITECTURE By GEO. M. ALLEN is in Mrs. Home's Art Book, DEVOTEES AND THEIR SHRINES. Send to this office or to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned. PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID It's FREE-send for the little book "Cameos" Three thousand words on Cameos Not a Catalogue, but an interesting, instructive article on Cameos The only book of its kind published W. M. McCONAHAY, Jeweler 64 Main Street. Salt Lake City Cameos in Rings, Scarf Pins, Neck Chains and Brooches, write about them It is Summer in Winter in CALIFORNIA Mid- winter Excursion TO CALIFORNIA January 29, 1916 18,500,000 People Carried 839,000,000 Passenger Miles July 1 to November 30, 1915 the SOUTHERN PACIFIC NOT ONE INJURED SAFETY plus COMFORT A SERVICE " CONVENIENCE = SATISFIED SCENERY " COURTESY TRAVELER Don't Worry, ask C. T.. McP V/L, District Passenger Agent, ^ Second Floor Walker Bank Building Salt Lake City, Utah