Home Economics. Department. Janette A. Hyde. The General Board of the ReHef Society has solved the prob- lem of giving to the members of the Society the same advantages of training in Home Economics, which the younger members of our communities have been receiving through the splendid courses given in our State and Church schools. By co-operating with the Utah Agricultural College, we are now prepared to offer a good course in home economics, and we will be greatly assisted by having expert teachers sent to the various cities and counties whenever we require that assistance. The great advantage of having our lesson work presented at the Agricultural College, institutes and roundups, held in different parts of the state, and as named in the following outline, will ap- peal to every woman in the Society. Through the generosity of Congress, each state receives ten thousand dollars yearly to give all women in each state through the extention division, an opportunity for scientific training in all branches of domestic labor. Our own Agricultural College has mapped out a very efficient and thorough plan to carry this work to the homes of the women of this State. And when we learned that this course was open to all women, regardless of political, re- ligious, or other qualifications, we approached Dr. Widtsoe and Dr. E. G. Peterson with a request for help in the course we con- templated introducing in our own Relief Society Guide. Both these gentlemen, with Miss McCheyne, who is in charge of this particular division of work, cordially agreed to meet any plan we might propose with both lesson outlines and expert help and teaching for local or general conventions. Indeed, they did more; they generously offered to co-ordinate our work so that it would find a place in their own regular round-ups. The General Com- mittee appointed by the Relief Society Board, to have charge of this work are Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman with Miss Sarah Eddington. The committee appointed by Dr. Widtsoe and Dr. Peterson to co-operate with our committee is Miss Gertrude McCheyne, Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe, Mrs. Lorin Merrill, Mrs. Hazel Love Dunford, Mrs. Effie Ensign Merrill, Mrs. E. D. Ball. Stake Presidents have been asked to co-operate with us in this great undertaking, by appointing women to super- vise the work and be present at the institutes and conventions in their particular localities, whenever possible; but if more con- venient, they may attend the Round-up in any other district. These conventions will not onlv encourage us in our oiu' daily labors. < o o J o J J o u H o s < 3 
 87 but will be as well a means of assisting us to systematize and scientifically organize our home work and business. At the Housekeepers' institute and conventions our delegates will have the subjects given them from our outlines as found in the January issue of the Magazine. Our Relief Society del- egates will also have the privilege of taking up any other special courses, that they may receive a thorough under- standing of the Home Economics courses, so that they may return to their wards qualified to give the lesson work to the members. Moreover, the delegates will receive special pedago- gical instruction on- how to teach the lessons in their wards. It must be understood that our lessons, which are taken from the Outlines, have been — — in our case specially applied to our Re- lief Society women, who are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. If any other sect or organized body of women were to use the outlines, they would of course modify the lessons and outlines to suit their exact needs. However, all this has been definitely dis- cussed and understood by the Agricultural College authorities in conference with our committee. We suggest to Stake and Ward Presidents that they invite all women who may desire this excellent course to attend the sessions, and indeed, to join our Society, without distinction of religion or condition, if such candidates are accepted by the local branch thus appealed to. And where any home economics work- ers are found in the cities or wards, invite them to a place on your Home Economics committee. MRS. ROREr's recipes. As Demonstrated August 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 1915. Fricasse of Chicken. — Disjoint chicken. Cover with boiling water in a casserole, mold and cook three-quarters of an hour. Add one teaspoon ful of salt, level tablespoonful of flour, moisten with half cup of milk, a saltspoonful of pepper. Cook 15 minutes. Cover with dumplings made bv sifting together one cupful of flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, one-half teaspoonful salt. Add — milk to moisten about half a cup. Cook ten minutes longer and serve. Ragout of Beef zvith Dtiinplings— One pound of beef, one small onion, two tablespoonfuls of suet, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one pint of boiling water, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of coloring, and one teaspoonful pepper, if desired. Put the suet and onion in the oven until the onion becomes soft, then pul in the meat and leave in oven until it is well seared, then add the (\nur. \\:\\vr;\nd seasoning. Bake three-quarter? of an hour. ; 
 Steak Stanley — One pound chopped raw meat, a tablespoon- ful of salt, a staltspoonful pepper, four bananas, two tablespoonfuls butter, two tablespoonfuls flour, half-pint milk, two tabelspoon- fuls dry horseradish. Add salt and pepper to meat and form into four steaks. Grease pie dish, arrange steaks and put in oven. Remove skins from bananas, put them into another pie dish, pour over a little melted butter, dust with sugar and put in oven. Make half a pint of white sauce, add the horse radish and a little extra salt and pepper and stand if over hot water. Turn steaks once. When done and ready to serve put horseradish sauce in bottom of heated platter, stand steaks in sauce, put bananas on top and serve. Caiinclon of Beef. — Pound chopped raw beef, cupful bread crumbs, tablespoonful grated onion, teaspoonful salt, tablespoonful chopped parsley, saltspoonful pepper, one whole tgg. Mix in- gredients, form into roll six icnhes long, wrap in greased paper, put on pie dish, cover the bottom of dish with water, add level tablespoonful butter and bake in quick oven half an hour, basting over the paper once or twice. Remove paper, dish the cannelon on heated platter, pour around tomato or brown sauce. — Honolulu Ham Trim neatly a thick slice of ham, put in large casserole, cover with four potatoes, pare and cut into slices add cupful milk and a dusting of pepper. Bake in slow oven half an hour or until potatoes are tender. — White Sauce. Two tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoon- fuls of flour, one-half cup of milk. Rub the butter and flour to- gether, then add milk; stir over the fire until it reaches a boiling point. MISCELLANEOUS. Before trying to pull threads in linen, run a very damp piece of, cloth along the line where the thread is to be pulled. It will surprise you how easily your thread will pull while your cloth is damp. — A Porch Cofufort. A useful idea in porch furniture is to have a shelf inside the porch rail, about one foot wide and one foot from the porch floor. The men will find an excellent foot rest, the women, a shelf for workbaskets or books. And just what the children want to sit on. — For a Sunny Back Porch. Select a pole lima bean plant which not only gives the desired shade, but also provides a vegta- ble for the summer, also saves poling the beans, and economizes the garden space. Relief Society women, try this bean; it will be the envy of your friends and neighbors. Much can be done toward freshening a room left shabby by winter's use, by using a pot of paint and a few yards of flowered chintz, cretonnes or hand painted linens. The variety of chintzes HOME ECONOMICS DEPARTMENT. 89 shown by the department stores is great enough to meet any par- ticular requirement. Many girls who are trying to decide upon a profession or vo- cation do not realize that the field for nursing offers advantages not to be found in many other callings. One of the first requirements of a successful nurse is a true spirit of service with a sincere interest in people of all kinds and classes. Few professions offer a larger field of usefulness. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE. John A. IVidfsoc, President. Farm and Home Conventions (called also Farmers' Roundup and Housekeepers' Conference) to be held as follows: Monroe— Jan. 10-22. Logan, Jan. 24-Feb. 5. Cedar City— Feb. 9-19. The 1916 sessions will be most important meetings of pro- gressive farmers and housewives. INSTITUTES AND SCHOOLS. — January 8 Institute, Weber County. — January 10-12 Round-up, Monroe. — January 22- Institute, Granite. — January 22 Institute, Weber. — January 24-31 Round-up, Logan. — February 1-5 Round-up, Logan. — February 7-19 Round-up, Logan. — February 7-19 Round-up, Cedar. February 7-12— School, Granite High School. — February 21-26 School, Beaver. — February 28 American Fork. March 3-4 — Tooele. • housekeepers' CONFERENCE. Courses in teaching Home Economics to women's organiza- tions. Gertrude M. McCheyne. Jan. 25th. 10 to 12 a. m.— The purpose of the lessons: A general survey of the course. Methods of handling the lessons. How to conduct demonstra- tions. — The Home Economics movement. Miss McCheyne.. Discussion of Lessons 2 and 3. What to bring out in the questions. Suggestions for handling question 8, so as to include: 
 their actual homework. Round table discussion on questions 10 and 11.— Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe. Discussion of the budget as a help in the home. How to teach home-makers how to make a business of housekeeping. Sugges- — tions as to carrying out the lessons. Mrs. Effie A'lerrill. A demonstration of budget making. Results obtained from uses of budgets.— Mrs. E. D. Ball, Mrs. C. A. Packham. Home schedules to suit various needs. System the secret of success. — Mrs. E. D. Ball, Mrs. C. A. Packham. "The Servant in the House," Evils of the present system. Changes suggested. Effect of teaching home economics on this ]Droblem. Co-operation in home work between members of family homes and communities. Are European methods applicable to Utah homes? Suggestions for co-operation laundries, bakeries, from — Wisconsin and Minnesota. Miss McCheyne. The buesiness of being a parent. Children's rights. Char- acter building. The prose and poetry of home-life. — Mrs. Lorin Merrill, Mrs'"Eeah D. Widtsoe. HOME ECONOMICS WORK UNDER THE SMITH-LEVER ACT. ^Ve copy here the opening paragraph from the Journal of Home Economics for September, written by the United States representative of this work, Dr. A. C True The Smith-Lever Act makes provision for "co-operative agri- cultural extension work which shall consist of the giving of in- struction and practical demonstrations in agriculture and Home Economics to persons not attending or resident" in the agricul- tural colleges. There is nothing in the Act making any division of the fund Ijetween agriculture and Home Economics. The money goes to the state agricultural colleges, which are to make plans for the work subject to the approval of the Secretary of Agriculture. This Act is the outcome of the agricultural extension and demonstration work which the United States Department of Ag- riculture and the agricultural colleges have been doing for a num- ber of vears. —