Query Box. Conducted by Haael Love Dwiford. We are opening this month a department for the asking and answering of questions, covering any and all phases of woman's interests. We have secured the services of a trained domestic scientist, who is a mother of several young children, herself a broad-minded, intelligent Latter-day Saint worker, in private and public affairs. We invite the attention and co-operation of our readers and friends. There is, of course, no charge attached to answers. But if you wish personal information which cannot be answered in this Department, send stamps for reply. Address questions to Query Department, 1 Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Query Department Recently I wore a white chiffon waist: with my navy blue suit. When I came home I was horrified to find my waist was badly discolored under the arms. Is there any way I can remove the coloring? Mrs. L. C. Y., Salt Lake. Mrs. L. C. Y. : Try dipping the discolored part of your waist in a little ammonia. Editor of the Query Department My husband is very: fond of brown gravy. How can I satisfy him in this regard, and still have my meat just a nice brown. Are the colorings I buy in store harmful? Mary B., Centerville. Mary B. No, the colorings, such as Kitchen Bouquet, etc., : are not harmful, but are expensive. Try this recipe for home- made colorings 2 c. sugar. 1 onion. 1 carrot. 1 c. water. 2 bay leaves. 1 t. salt. Put the sugar in a granite pan, or frying pan, and brown until it is almost burnt. Then add the seasonings and simmer slowly thirty minutes and bottle it. It will keep indefinitely. Query Department Will you kindly give me a good recipe: Fanny D., Kanab, Utah. for potato soup? FannyD., Kanab: All cream soups are made much the same. They are composed of white sauce with some vegetable to flavor and a little seasoning, such as salt, pepper and onion. : . QUERY BOX. 105 Potato Soup 1 c. mashed potatoes. 2 tb. butter. 1 qt. milk. 2 tb. flour. 1 t. salt. 1 small onion. Pepper. 1 t. minced parsley. Scald milk thicken with the flour stirred with a little cold; milk. Add potato and strain. Add butter and seasonings. When scalding the milk put in the onion. Dear Editor My little boy is a very rapid eater. I know: it not good for him to bolt his food as he does. Can you sug- is gest any way I could break him of this habit. E. M., American — Fork. E. M., American Fork You are right when you say you: know it is not good for your child when he swallows his food whole. I would suggest that you take time to sit down with him and tell him a story while he eats. For instance, while he eats bread and milk, tell him how the old cow walks around in the pas- ture picking out the very best grasses, and there she lies in the shade and chews and chews so slowly on every bite, and in this way you will find the child will soon get. the habit of eating slowly and chewing his food well. I have been looking for a good vacuum sweeper. Can you giveme any information as to kinds, and their relative value? Thanking you in advance, I am Yours truly, Mrs. Mable. Mrs. Mable: There are many different vacuum sweepers on the market, ranging in price for from five to twelve dollars. A good company will always give you a trial, and you can use their sweeper and see how it works, for yourself. There are several different sweepers recommended that do good work. Some of these are the Bissel, the E. Z., and the Argyle. The Argyle is ex- pensive, but does the work thoroughly. Any woman who wishes to make her work easy should have a sweeper in her home. It saves work in many different ways. . Question in Genealogy: How shall we record a child, when only the sex is given, as "son" or "daughter"? Answer: Record exactly as written, as: John Smith. Mrs. Mary Smith. Child. John daughter. Mary son any evidence that the son or daughter became old If there is enough for baptism, record them as "Mr. Smith" or "Miss Smith." — Notes from the Field. By the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. Relief Society Books. It is greatly regretted that there has been an unavoidable delay in sending out the new books for secre- taries and treasurers. We expected that these record books, with the teacher's books, would be delivered to the stake presidents by the last of December, and that they would be in the hands of the ward secretaries and treasurers by January 1st but at this latter; date, they were still in the hands of the printers. This delay was caused by the usual rush of business in the printing office at this time of the year, and to a shortage of paper in the local market. Our stake presidents are always very prompt in attending to business matters, and we hope that at this time there will be no exceptions to the rule, and that they will be especially prompt in delivering the books to the wards. As the teachers' books were ready for distribution on January 1st, they were mailed out to the stakes, and were no doubt distributed to the wards immediately. It was decided two years ago that a new set of books be ar- ranged for Relief Society work, and when the plans of the same were presented at the business session of the October conference, it was recommended by the General Board, and decided, that the books be adopted by all the wards in the Church on January 1. 1916. It was understood, at that time, that many of the wards would still have space in their old books, and would question the advisability of discarding them, but as it is desirable that all the books and accounts be uniform throughout the Society, it was de- cided that all old books be filed for preservation at the close of 1915, and that the new books be adopted. In a letter sent out to stake presidents, October 18th, we re- quested that the exact number of ward and branch Relief Society organizations be sent in, also the number of teachers' districts, recommending that each teacher's district comprise only twelve families. This information was desired in order that we might have a sufficient number of books and report forms printed. The stake presidents responded immediately, and our order for books and for report forms was based on this information. — — We have arranged for each ward as reported to have one secretary's and one treasurer's book, and a number of teacher's books, equal to the number of districts in the ward, that is. one teacher's book for each district. A few extra copies of the books were ordered in case new districts are organized, and may be had on application to this office. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 107 The Secretaries' Book. The Secretaries' book is arranged for five years' work. It is separated in five distinct parts, with dates of years and months affixed. It is planned to contain both minutes and reports. Arrangement is made for minutes of four meetings each month, with space for brief minutes of business or preparation meetings. At the end of each year's work, a report form is given, upon which the data for the yearly report may be recorded, and which agrees with the regular report form. The Treasurers' Book. The Treasurers' book is also planned for five years' work, and is arranged to record all receipts and dis- bursements, with space for all transactions and for the names of donors and beneficiaries. Teachers' Book. The Teachers' book contains instructions and suggestions to teachers. It is arranged for a permanent rec- ord of the names of the families residing in the district, for twelve monthly teachers' reports, and for a summary of donations for the year. On the sheet that is arranged for the monthly report, provision is made on one side for the names of the two teachers who have charge of the district, the names of those who make the donation, and the amount and kind of their donations, with a line for totals at the bottom of the page. On the other side of the sheet, provision is made for recording the names of new families arriving in the district, for the names of Relief Society members who have moved from the district, and for the activities of the Society as follows: Days spent with the sick, number of special visits to the sick, bodies prepared for burial, and number of days spent in Temple work. There is also special provision on this page for any general information the teachers may desire to re- port. Visits to the sick and days spent in the temple of a private character need not be here reported. Stake books. Several stakes have recently sent orders to the books. The General Board has not, as yet, office for stake record made provision for such books. It is the plan, however, to pro- vide for them before the end of 1916. N. B. All ward books should be obtained from the stake presidents. Presiding teachers. An inquiry recently came into the office asking if it is necessary and proper for each ward to have a presiding teacher. President Wells gives the following informa- tion on the subject She states that at one time in the Relief: Society, the teachers were supervised by one of their own number, ^vho was called a presiding teacher; the plan was not successful, 
 however, and was later discarded. This occurred during the pres- idency of Eliza R. Snow. The General Board desires to abide by the ruling then made. President Enmieline!>. Wells is em- phatic in her wish to discontinue such a practice, if it has been revived in anv of the wards. IN MEMORIAJVI. Vv'e are much pained to record the death of Airs. Kellie lieecraft,counselor to Mrs. Isabella 'SI. Foulger first of the Ug'den Stake. Airs. Beecraft was a woman of rare gifts, strong personality, and abiding faith. She was modest, sweet, unassuming, and lovable in disposition. She was a true friend, devoted wife and mother, and an untiring worker in the Church. Mrs. Beecraft joined the Church in August, 1880. A month later, she became a member of the Relief Society, and during all these 36 years, her service in the Organization has been continuous. For 24 years. Mrs. Beecraft held the position of ward secretary, and for 5 years she acted as stake secretary, resigning this latter position to become first counselor in the Ogden Stake Presidency. As secretary, she was prompt and accurate, and always ready and willing for any service connected with her position. Another cause which Sister Beecraft held dear to her heart, and in which she was an inspiration to hundreds in her stake, was the gene- alogical work. Through her, one of the first stake Relief Society classes of instruction was held in the Ogden Stake, and as a result of that class. 22 volumes of charts and sketches are now file 1 in the stake ofiice. On November 26, 1913. Mrs. Hariett Lee Whitby passed to the Great Beyond. Mrs. Whitby, at the time of her- death, was president of the Marion Ward Relief Society in the Cassia Stake, a position she had held with honor and dignity for 20 years. Mrs. Whitby was the wife of James Whitby. She was borne in Tooele, but moved to Idaho in 1882, and was thus one of the pioneers of this valley. She was a helpful and dependable woman, using her time and talent for the benefit of the community. She was greatly beloved by her co-workers, and is deeply mourne 1 by them. Mrs. Abigail T. Shoemaker, wife of Ezra Shoemaker, died at her home in Manti on January 4, 1916. Mrs. Shoemaker was the daughter of Anra Al. and Azariah Tuttle. pioneer residents of Sanpete county. .She was ])resident of the South Sanpete stake until November 5th, when she was released from her duties on account of ill health. She was a faithful and devotc'l worker in the Alanti Temi)le. a sweet-spirited and gracious president, ol^e-h'ent to the priesthood, and a valued friend and Saint.