When Dreams Come True. ^3' Ruth Moench Bell. A change had come over Harriet Cheevers. Something new had come into her Hfe. That was evident to even near-sighted Mrs. Priest. There was something on the famihar face that baffled analysis. So long the little group of women had sewed together that the slightest deviation from accustomed ways was at once detected. One week ago the same carelessness in personal appearance, the result of long acquaintance and lack of incentive, was as apparent in Mrs. Cheevers as in the other members of the sewing circle. Now she looked as fresh and dainty as a girl and several years younger than usual. was with some surprise that the women noticed that Har- It riet was almost pretty. Was it the soft, creamy tie she was wear- ing, or the extra brushing her hair had received that made it soft and fluffy, or was it the new expression of purpose and re- newed joy of living in her face, that made it lovely? One member of the sewing circle, however, was not speculat- ing on the new tie or the fluffy hair or the kindled expression. Mrs. Jones, mother of the mayor of North Hammond, saw a secret lurking in the depths of her friend's eyes, and she yearned to take her by the shoulders and shake it out of her. Mrs. Jones had a nose for mystery, and disliked being kept in suspense con- cerning it. "What's come over you, Harriet," she asked abruptly. "Somebody died and left you a fortune?" "Nobody has died and left me one," Mrs. Cheevers laid down her tatting and partially enlightened them "but somebody did; come to life and bequeath me one." Mrs. Cheevers resumed her tatting with the same preocciipie 1 aloofness that had so puzzled the women that afternoon. "For pity sake explain yourself, Harriet," Mrs. Jones urged impatiently. "It doesn't sound quite sane." "It isn't anything much," Mrs. Cheevers explained modestly, "And perhaps you won't be interested. I've been reading this week about a woman fifty years old who started in to get a col- lege education after her children were all reared." "Did she get it?" Mrs. Jones probed. "She got it." Mrs. Cheevers declared triumphantly, "And she earned the money to pay for it right out of her vegetable and flower garden, and bv making crocheted and knitted shawds and IV HEX DREAMS COME TRUE. 73 bootees and lace. She got all the college extensicin work she and finally they put her in charge of some experiments. could, And now she is one of the most successful women in the coun- don't see what that has to do with you. Mrs. Jones sniffed, ''I still deeper into the mastery. trying- to dig- a little "It has just this to do with me," Mrs. Cheevers replie 1. "It set me thinking-. ( )ur doctrine is the doctrine of Eternal Progres- sion. And here I have perhaps twenty-five more years in which to progress right here on earth. And I've been sitting aroun think- 1 ing of nothing- but my aches and pains, and waiting for death when I might have been growing and developing and improving myself." "Tell us more about this woman," Mrs. I'riest begged. "There isn't much more to tell,'' Mrs. Cheevers went on. "She's fond of games." "I don't see how they will improve her much," Mrs. Jones protested. "That is just where I am going to begin to improve," Mrs. Cheevers laughed. "I never did have enough fun. It seems like we were young such a short time, and ol such a long time. 1 And then we married so much younger than folks do now-a- days. While the children were with me I often longed to go out and play with them but there was always something to be done. I can see now that I would have been a better mother if I had joined in their pla}^ as they often coaxed me to do. I'd have loosened up some of the laughter that lay under the crust of seri- ousness that covered up my smiles and light-heartedness. Why games and dancing were the very things that saved the sanity of the pioneers, amid all their hardships. Laug"hter helped to lighten their load laughter and prayers and songs of thanksgiving, of; course." A hush had fallen over the group and Mrs. Cheevers resumed her tatting. But she was too full of the achievements of this other mature woman and her own plans and rene\\ e:l ambitions to keep silent long till she had shared it all with her friends. "There is another thing I am going to do. You know how interesting our studies on Utah artists and their works have been? Well, I'm going to follow these studies wuth the life and works of all the leading artists of the world. If I'd had one speck of talent or opportunity I believe I'd have tried to paint when I was a girl. But I am not going to give up now till I know all about the finest paintings and the lives and methods of the paint- ers." Mrs. Morgan looked up as if a sulden ins|Mration had come to her.She changed her mind, and did not si)eak but her thou.^-hts were of a certain organ, silent since the children had married, 
 that might help her to reahze her dreams. She had always yearned to play. "And I am going to begin to learn now," she told herself with resolution. "I believe God gives us these last long, leisurely years so we can fulfill some of the many desires crowded out of the care- free time of youth, and the crowded period of niiddle life. This is our chance to make our dreams come true." "I believe you are right, Harriet," Mrs. Jones sighed, under the spell of the early dreams now long forgotten. "Still none of it explains why you are 'all dolled up,' as my grandchildren say." "It is the influence of this eager woman again," Mrs. Cheevers lau-^-hed. "She said that the first thing she set about to do after she had made up her mind that she had something to do, even if the children were all married and gone, was to make her body as happy, healthy, clean and attractive as possible and her personal appearance as dainty and neat as she could. She says that care and pride in one's person, especially when one is getting along in years, is evidence of a high order of self-respect, and helps one to keep young and attractive. She calls it well-groomed." "Groomed," Mrs. Jones sniffed. "Groomed! Is she a mare or a woman?" Mrs. Cheevers bit her lip. She realized that she had roused Mrs. Jones, who always took umbrage at remarks on neatness whether they were meant for her or not. Mrs. Jones sniffed again, and glanced down at her apron, which was. to say the least, slightly soiled. She had explained that it was wash-day as she came in. Besides, it was one of her proudest boasts that she had made no difference in her habits since her son had become Mayor. Still she would have given con- siderable, then, to have slipped the apron into her sewing-bag un- observed. And for any notice that would have been taken of the act. she might have done so. Each woman was busy with a personal inventory of herself and her apparel, that left her, for the moment, unaware of any flaws in her sisters. On the other side of Mrs. Jones, Mrs. Lochart sat gazing absently into space. A glimpse into her thought- factory would have elicited the information that her shoe-laces were broken in several places, and tied together in knots, more or less neat, with frayed edges showing. Mrs. Lochart was remembering also that her shoes had not been blacked for some time. In fact, the more she thought of it the more convinced she became that her shoes had not been blacked since she bought theni. She drew her feet further imder her skirts, and hoped that her action had been unobtrusive. She would not have liked Mrs. Morgan to wonder why. Mrs. Morgan would not have wondered, for reasons already suggested. Mrs. Morgan had taken advantage of the long silence WHEN DREAMS COME TRUE. 75 and averted eyes to take a peep at her nails. Her worst fears were confirmed, and' she slipped her hands under the shawl she had been knitting. A dried rim of dough was visible at the base of each nail. She had not gone over her nails after putting the bread into loaves, but merely washed and dried her hands and hastened to the sewing circle. Mrs. Priest was occupied with curling her finger tips into the palm of her hand to hide the ragged tips of her gloves. She en- joyed w^orking in the garden, and often forgot to wear heavy gloves while about such work. Conscious of the conrlition of her hands, she had brought no sewing and kept her gloves on. Her one thought now was whether Mrs. Alton had noticed the holes in her gloves. She need not have concerned herself. A frayed petticoat, whose flounce was secured with a safety-pin, was occupying Mrs. Alton's mind to the exclusion of everything else. Leave-takings were rather hasty, for reasons connected with the inner processes of each woman's mind. "You meet with me next time," Mrs. Cheevers reminded them. , Unconsciously each woman glanced at Mrs. Cheever's nails, as her fingers slid in and out putting her tatting into her sewing- bag and slipping the ribbons over her wrist. The nails were pink- tipped and perfectly manicured. They had never differed so es- sentially from the other woman's before. "I suppose Harriet is getting ready to emulatee this perfect type of mature woman," Mrs. Jones told herself, as she ap- proached Mrs. Cheevers' for the next meeting. "If it were not for giving the impression that I'm ashamed of myself I'd not go today. Perfectly 'Groomed'," she exhumed; for the word had been literally burned in her heart the entire week. It was a relief to expel it. Nevertheless she continued on her way with the comfortable assurance that no one could pick any flaws with her attire. She had made several concessions which she secretly hoped would pass unnoticed. The extra brushing she had given her hair as well as the curl which she found becoming to her forehearl might attract attention. Yet she let it stay. Arriving at Mrs. Cheevers' from various directions, an aston- ishei-1 group of women stood stone still for there on the spacious lawn, a glow on her cheeks, laughter on her lips, industriously batting at an elusive ball sported their hostess. "Why Harriet Cheevers," Mrs. Jones exploded. "You'll run yourself to death. You aren't a girl any more." Mrs. Cheevers came up breathless and radiant to receive her guests. "I sent for my niece to come and teach me to plav tennis." 76 KLiLlEl' SOCIETY MAGAZINE. she explained, "and 1 thought we might as well have a game while you were coming." "You'll pay for this tomorrow," Mrs. Priest croaked envi- ously, "You'll probahly be laid up all day." "Oh, we've been at it for a week," Mrs. Cheevers laughed. "I did feel pretty lame at first. But I'm standing it all right now. Do you mind if we have some more games this afternoon? I found a set of dominoes, an old checker-board and a deck of flinch up in the attic." Nobody minded and many a merry laugh startled lips that had forgotten the flavor of smiles. Long after dusk the guests left for their homes. Each seemed absorbed in highly interesting plans. It was a very purposeful group of women that went to their beds that night, as eager for dawn to come, that they might put their plans into efl:'ect, as they had been as children. Mrs. Cheevers had set them thinking. And they could see that they had each cherished some desire of achievement, and now they meant to work to attain it instead of regretting that they had never had the opportunity. And in seeking it they began to realize that there would come into their lives, instead of a long, cheerless fall hastened too soon, prolonged too wearily, a rich, warm Indian Summer, lasting and lingering and breaking into a sweet, peace- ful winter. Several croquet sets and other discarded games were brought down from sundry attics that week. Women who had long since been too old to play, loosened their crippled joints and forgot their pain in the excitement of old games. "If Harriet Cheevers can learn to play tennis at her age, I'm not too old to play croquet," Mrs. Lochart remarked, and the others were of the same mind. "If Betty Morgan is not too old to study music, and can earn the money to pay for her lessons," Maggie Priest told her- self, "I guess I can study history and buy my own books. I've always wanted to ever since my Frank used to rehearse his les- sons to me. If my back yard won't yield enough garden sage to supply the butchers and grocers, so they won't have to ship in any more of that tasteless stuff they've been handling, I want to know the reason why. It's too late for asters but the florist says he gets quantities every fall, and he will buy all the tulips, and hyacinths and daffodils I can raise in the spring. So I guess I can buy all the books I shall need." "Hortense Alton has sold a piece of her lot," Mrs. Jones called over to Betty Morgan one day. "Tom Gunnell has been trying to buy it for years and at last she has cut it loose. She is going to take the money and go to California for a trip, this win- ter. She is as gay as a girl at the prospects. And here she has!" been getting ready to die for the last ten years lyHEN DREAMS COME TRUE. 77 Two weeks skipped by, and the mayor of North Hammond happened in to see his mother. He found her in a white apron, as white as her freshly washed hair. She was sewing crocheted lace on a night-gown. 'Who is going to get married now," he laughed as his de- lighted eyes noted the change in his mother's apparel. "Who is the happy bride?" "I am," she retorted, transfixing him with a gay laugh. "Mother," he gasped, "then who is the happy groom?" "Old Age, Tom, just Old Age. I've always been afraid of him, and run from him. But he has been tramping on my heels so long that at last I've turned around to embrace him. I believe Harriet Cheevers is right. She says Old Age is the dearest friend we have, if we only use wisely the leisure he grants us. She says he gives us the chance to make all our dreams come true. You see in youth we are so set on getting married that we only dream about what we should like to do some day. In mid- dle life we can't find time. That is why Old Age is so generous with time. He gives us the opportunity to do all we once thought we wished to do." The mayor of North Hammond looked at his mother through a mist that did not often veil his eyes. He felt as if he had met her for the first time and was scarcely worthy of an acquaintance. In fact, his feeling was even holier than that. It was as if he had bolted into a scantuary and ought to be down on his knees before this mother whom he had once wished would take a little pride in herself. He felt guilty and conscience-smitten at the recollection. "I've never cared for travel like Hortense Alton does.- I haven't a bit of talent for music. History bores me to death. But I've got to find some interest in life, so I can grow young like the others are. I've thought it all out, and I've come to the conclusion that the thing I'm most deficient in is just plain house-keeping. And I guess I've got as good a right to 'doll myself up' as Harriet Cheevers has. If I'm going to marry Old Age and live with him for a good many years, I'm going to dress to please him, and keep house to please him. I'll have to be a lot more careful and particular than I used to be when I was younger and more attractive." Mrs. Jones had not dared to confess her housekeeping limita- tions to her friends.It was a relief to have her son to confide in. "Come here, Tom," Mrs. Jones lead the way into her little pantry. "See those shelves." Mayor Jones looked at the shelves and pantry, all newly painted white. He remembered when, as a boy, he brought a friend in for a spread and longed to turn the hose loose on those same shelves and make them more inviting. 
 Then she led the way into the bed-room and pulled out the dresser drawers. "Look at those drawers," and she pointed with pride at the neat piles of freshly ironed Hnen. Again Mayor Jones' memory led him backward. He was a boy again, and rumaging in those same drawers in which an end of almost anything might be seen sticking up as one opened the drawer. "You are a wonder, Mother," he exclaimed proudly, as he folded her in his arms. "Some women at your age would be moping around complaining of their aches and pains, and expect- ing somebody to wait on them and be sorry when they died." It was Mrs. Jones' turn to be uncomfortable. "That is precisely what I was doing, boy, a few weeks ago, when something pricked my pride and got me started right. It was that word 'groomed' that Harriet Cheevers used, I believe. It kind of got under my feathers at first. People used to have so much to say about my bad house-keeping, and untidy dress, that I just naturally flared up when anything was said on the subject. It used to bother me considerably; but it seemed as if I hadn't the knack, so I quit trying and pretended I didn't care, just to defy them." Mayor Jones suppressed a smile at this revelation of the in- ternal workings behind the external expression with which he was only too familiar. "That word 'groomed' was as annoying as a fly walking over my upper lip. It fretted me until I gradually became unaware of its existence. About that time it occurred to me how delightfully fresh and frisky a horse must feel after it is well curried and brushed. I suppose I used to be like the over-worked plough horse whose master couldn't take time to brush and curry it and pick the burrs out of its mane. Now I can't help wishing they could invent some way to brush a horse's teeth so its mouth could feel cool and refreshed as mine does after the tooth-duty I once couldn't find time for. I could never believe the glow of pride that goes over one when we begin and close the day well- groomed. It is easier to pray and the prayer seems more efifec- tive, if we have made the flesh more fitting for the spirit." The mayor of North Hammond turned his eyes from the vision of this new mother, once so self-sufficient, now so appealing in her wistful humility. "So the little mother is indulging herself in a perfect orgy of house-keeping, and 'dolling herself up'." He pressed her hand to divert her thoughts from the catch in his voice that would come at sight of the mother of sixty years satisfying her suppressed "Why it is as exciting as a game," she laughed. "Every ambitions while yet life lasted. ; PyHEN DREAMS COME TRUE. 79 day I find some new way to be more particular and efficient, and it is real fun. If only — " and there was a catch in the mother's voice as she controlled herself and went on, "if only your father were here. I can see now that he wanted to be proud of me in every way. Well, maybe I'll have a chance, on the other side, to show him the improvement I've made since he left me here." Mayor Jones folded his mother in his arms again. Her thoughts were precisely what his had been. It was a solemn moment for both. The next day a box of roses came for Mrs. Jones with the compliments of her son and the wish that time and strength might be hers to make every dream come true. There was also a substantial check with the suggestion that she take some friend, widowed like herself, to a temple city where both could enjoy some spiritual work. Meanwhile five other mature women, grown suddenly young, were finding it "real fun" to break their own records and realize dreams. A new zest brightened the meetings of The Relief So- ciety and sewing circle of North Hammond. Aches and pains were far off and forgotten themes. History, music, travel, art. new recipes, new patterns for bootees and shawls, pin-money methods and markets, were absorbing themes. And, side by side with thoughts of the hereafter, strode tha thought to prepare more worthily here.