My Testimony Concerning Temple Work. By Lerona A. Wilson. Last fall the Lord, in his tender mercy, touched me and brought me near to death's door. By the power of faith and fervent prayer, my life was preserved, and after a severe case of blood poisoning, I still retain my precious right hand. When I became humble enough and prayerful enough, so that I could exercise faith, I had what was to me a remarkable experience and; I want to testify of what I saw and heard. When my life seemed to be hanging in the balance, and I was suffering pain and distress, lying upon my bed at midday, I was praying most fervently for deliverance, with all the faith I coul 1 exercise. My room suddenly became lighted brightly with a soft, white light, then a number of my deceased relatives came into my room. My father came first, then my mother, my sister and her son's wife and two doctors, who were among our ancestors for whom we had done ordinance work in the temple. All stood around my bed, and father addressed me, saying: "You seem to be in distress." I answered that I was, and did not know how I could endure it much longer. Father was dressed in a uniform such as he wore as an officer of the Nauvoo Legion, in the early history of the Church. Many remember Major Monroe, when he lived in Ogden and took still part in theEcho Canyon campaign and in Indian troubles. Continuing he said "I have come to talk to you about: doing the temple work for our dead ancestors." At that point I caught the eye of my nephew's wife, whose death was the most recent, and who left four very young boys, one an infant, and to whose death I could hardly become re- conciled; and I said to her: "O, Lydia, how are your little boys?" She replied "They are all right, they are with their father." : asked again T "But why did you leave them?" : Father answered for her "We required her for an inter- : preter. We could not get along without her." T asked "What calling is greater for a mother than to care: for her infant children?" Father replied "Others can take good care of her children, : but there are few people who are qualified for the work she is doing. She had prepared herself." (I knew that to be true.) : MY TESl IMONV CONCERNING TEMPLE WORK. 83 Father asked me if I would go to the temple and take up the ordinance work for our kindred dead. I said:"How can T leave my work ( in my school of dress- making), and my family?" My mother spoke this time: "I had to leave my family just when I was needed the most. You can remain with your family. You will only need to spend a part of your time in the temple." Then my sister said "I had to leave my family, too, when I: was so much needed, and Lydia had to leave her little ones." These remarks made my excuse seem very weak. Father wanted me to promise him that I would do this work, and I gave him my promise that I would. "Now remember," he said, "it will require much faith. Do you think you can have faith enough?" "Father, I will do all in my power," I rephed, for while under that exalting influence, it seemed an easy matter to have faith. Father then drew his sword and flashed it above my head. His tone changed from that of a gentle father, to the loud, stern voice of a commanding officer as he said "H you do not, I will mow you down like stubble, and move you out of the way and raise up some one who will." Sensing more fully the difficulties of the task I had taken upon myself, I wanted to know how I could obtain means to carry on the work. Father said: "Call upon your brethren, they will help you." "Why do you not go to them?"I enquired. He answered "I have tried and tried, but I cannot make an: impression upon them." "Then how is it that I can hear you?" was my next question. "Read Section 89 of the Doctrine and Covenants, and you will understand," was his reply. (That section contains the Word of Wisdom). Father then quoted from the scriptures giving chapter and verse, and taught me the law of baptism in greater force and beauty than I had ever heard it, and explained that this ordinance cannot be administered in the spirit world. The dead who have died without baptism must have the ordinance performed for them by the living. He alluded to our kindred, saying they were a fine people, and they had received the gospel. They were most anxious to be advancing. They need to move on with other spirits who are in like condition and give place to the large numbers who are now crowding into that world. I asked "How about the other churches, are they not doing: some good"? He said "Yes, in a way, but they have not the priesthood: and can do little towards the salvation of the living or the dead. 
 The Lord has only one Church. All others are mere organizations — man made, which he -does not recognize as far as the gospel ordinances go." I asked if we would escape the calamities that are coming upon the earth. He said we had no promise unless we cease to worship the god of pleasure and worship the true and living God. Unless we turn our hearts to God and serve him, he will not know us in the hour of peril and distress. We have no promise of protection un- less we keep the Lord's commandments and perform our duty towards those in the spirit world. As father was speaking about the god of pleasure, a pano- rama passed before me of playhouses crowded to overflowing, and empty or nearly empty churches. I asked: "How am I to get genealogies"? He said: "You will get help.People will assist you freely and willingly." (This has proved true.) I asked: "Will I live to do this work?" He replied "You can live long, but you must change your: mode of living. You should only eat the purest foods and eat sparingly." The work of the Lord, to him, was the all in all. He said in answer to a question: "H the people will enter into the temple and do the work for the dead, do enough of it, put spirit into the work, and do it right, they will have peace. But if the dead are rieglected, the earth will be smitten. During an interview the two doctors became very much in- terested in my afflicted hand and told me what to do for it, btu father said:"Do what you will, your hand will not be loosened up until you have proved your faithfulness." Which was true. Before parting, father instructed me to testify to the people of these things, and not let an opportunity pass. There was much more that would be of interest, for the inter- view lasted several hours, but this is already too lengthy for this occasion. The greatest lesson ever learned is the lesson of a wise choice know which labor to perform, and which to leave.of duties; to undone. Where to put emphasis, and where to lift the pressure. To balance our lives and duties, so that each receives due atten- tion and no more. — To discover and apply wisdom.