A Testimony. (This happened in March, 1897; it was written at the time it occurred, and was a wonderful experience and testimony.) By Lucy May Green. Evening- on the Atlantic ocean. Calm and peaceful were the skies which were ilhuninated -by the glorious rays of the setting sun. The wind had ceased blowing and the waves, which had been rising mountain high, how now sunk to a peaceful calm. The passengers of the steamship Circassia were strolling the deck, or sitting in groups in their deck-chairs. Some were discussing the progress the ship had made during the afternoon, and were eagerly counting the days that must elapse 'ere they could reach their distant homes, far away in the West. Others were admiring the glorious cloud picture, as the golden sun sank lower and lower on the horizon, illuminating the waves until they sparkled like glowing diamonds. Among the passengers were several who, for the Gospel's sake, had long been separated from home and loved ones, and their hearts beat high, as they thought of the loving welcome that awaited them at home. Each dull thump of the engine was heard with gladness, as each forward bound of the vessel brought them nearer home. Others were there whose hearts were sad yet full of courage these had left father and mother and home and friends to gather to the Zion of God, and they too were looking forward with joy to the speedy fulfilment of their long-cherished desire to gather with the Saints in Zion. Suddenly there came a crash which shook the vessel from stern to stern. In a moment all was confusion and people rushed to and fro in wild excitement. In a few words the captain explained the gravity of the situa- tion. The shaft of the engine had broken and the ship would float at the mercy of the winds and waves until the damage could be repaired. It was a trying moment for all. The wind had again risen, the sea had become greatly troubled, and a heavy storm was threatening. In the meantime, some of the passengers, those few humble servants of the Lord had gathered in one of the lower cabins in earnest prayer that God in His mighty power would preserve them from danger, and then by the power of the priesthood and in the name of Israel's God, the winds and waves were rebuked. "And suddenly there was a great calm." Into the hearts of these faith- A TESTIMONY. 81 fill ones came stealing the sustaining influence of the Spirit of God. The promises that had been sealed on their heads prior to their departure from home came to their remembrances, that they would reach home in safety. A quiet, peaceful night was passed and in the morning the sea was calm and smooth with scarcely a ripple on the waves. This continued for three days and the engine again began to work and in due time the ship reached her desired haven. Some thought a miracle had been wrought and who shall deny it? Israel's God still lives. He who of old calmed the waves with His gentle "Peace be still, and he acknowledges the administrations of His authorized servants and still moves in a mysterious way His wonders to perform." Let us be encouraged by this manifestation of His power and know that there is no difficulty so great but with His help we can overcome it, and if the way is ever so dark, and everything seems against us. if we exert great faith in the Lord, stand firm in the testimony of Jesus, and keep His commandments. He will guide us safely through the voyage of life, through storms and sunshine until we land safely on the heavenly shore, our dearest haven.