Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. III. FEBRUARY, 1916. No. 2. Efficiency. The word used in modern business is this rather What is — modern word efficiency. We have efficiency Efficiency? engineers and efficiency experts in every depart- ment of the modern strenuous life men who are — able, competent and extremely alert men who cut down ex- ; penses, men who discover weakness, and men who promote activity, who would teach other men how to accomplish re- sults. These modern ideas of efficiency have actually Efficiency invaded the home. Devices and "contraptions" in. The for the lessening of work in the home, arrange- Home, ments to save steps, to lessen the friction every- where in the domestic machiner}\ through small compact kitchen laboratories, are the order of the day. Budgets to compose and adjust the household expenses are introduced into all the Home Science Departments in the technical schools. Efficient housekeepers, home-makers, wives, mothers and daughters, are the great modern requirement. no RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The efficient housekeeper has many of the ele- The ments of success required to offer for the efficient Efficient woman in any public business. Women who Woman. have learned to regulate their own affairs, to con- duct their own intricate domestic problems, are, as a rule, qualified for a wider usefulness, a broader sphere of activity. But, alas, so few women, in the mass, are really efficient housekeepers. To do things in "any old way," at "any old time," is too often the rule in most households. And yet, this thing we call efficiency can be cultivated. We are — — never too old we Relief Society women to learn and to progress. Every truth we learn here, every fault overcome, every virtue acquired is just so much efficiency laid up in our bank on the other side. And spiritual efficiency will be the circulating medium hereafter. Are you an efficient wife and mother? An ef- Are you ficient housekeeper and homemaker? An efficient Efficient? Relief Society member, teacher, or officer? If not, why not? Are you capable, competent, and faith- ful? Can you be depended on? When you say you will at- tend to anything, do you keep your word? Do you take re- sponsibility? Do you give good service? Do your labors, pro- duce the effects intended, or are they largely abortive? Do you earn, really and truly earn, no matter what you may be ])aid;do you earn efficiency wages or only day's wages? Is your activity productive of the most useful effects, or do you "jump up and down in a bucket all day and holler", as a Yankee grandmother characterized a certain woman's foolish waste of time and energy? These are the questions I ask myself, and I hereby pass them on to you. The world, the Church, and above all, the Relief Society, wants efficient women, members, and officers. ATTENTION! GENEALOGICAL COMMITTEES. In answer to many inquiries the General Board wishes it luiderstood that the genealogical visits to be reported are official visits paid to the Temples by the ward Relief Society. Private visits of individuals to Temples need not be recorded on our reports. Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in March. WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. REBECCA. (Before this article is read, the account in the Bible should be carefully gone over. Genesis, chapters 24-27.) Rebecca is a character. A good many women, you know, are not. The same thing, for that matter, may be said of men. Rebecca is more than a name which you vainly strive to de- velop into a personality. The personality is already there, de- veloped before your eyes, and all you have to do is to see what is set before you —though sometimes you have to use a micro- scope and always your head. Drawn with the fewest possible — strokes an art known only to those old Bible writers — she stands out in bold relief, a woman of flesh and blood with the eternal values unchanged. Rebecca is, first of all, a woman of rare physical beauty. On two different occasions we are told that she is "fair to look — upon" once when she stands there at the well in all the glory of her young virginity, fresh, energetic, generous, and then again as she is set over against the fair daughters of the Philstines when she, a matron, goes with her husband to their country, and all unconsciously enamors the lustful king. The details of her life as given by the sacred writer, are few but tremendously significant. We first see her at the well when the aged servant of Abra- ham came wife-seeking for Isaac. She is a young woman, over- sowing with vitality, physical and spiritual. Out of the kindness of her heart she gives drink to the camels, too, although the stranger has asked drink only for himself. The conversation ended, she "runs," in the picturesque phrase of the Biblical nar- rative, to her mother and the household, to tell them of the new arrivals. She has courage and decision of character, for when her father and her mother hesitate about sending her to her future husband into a strange country and to a strange people, she im- mediately answers, "I will go!" 
 We see her next just before the birth of Esau and Isaac. A sign has occurred which gives her distress and concern. What does she do? Sit and brood in alarm over it or run with the deli- cate secret to some one who perhaps would know as little about it as the inexperienced young wife? — Not at all she is too self- reliant for that. — Instead she goes to the Lord how we do not — know, nor does it matter, but with such faith and trust in him as to obtain an answer that not only comforts and sustains her but reveals the larger purposes of God. "Two nations," she is told of the Lord, "are in thy womb, and two peoples shall be separated even from thy bowels. The one people shall be strong-er than the other people and the elder shall serve the younger." Here the; Lord condescends to give Rebecca a revelation that touches the future of two peoples. The next time she appears before us in the narrative is in the fan^ous sceen of the transferred blessing, overhearing the now — aged Isaac telling his elder son, Esau the wild, the impulsive, the roaming Esau, —who isloved by the gentle, retiring Isaac more than is the quiet Jacob, to bring him a "savory offering'' that he in turn may bless him. Now, this blessing was an important and significant event in the life of a follower of Abraham in those days. So Rebecca induces Jacob, her favorite son, to assume the appearance of the elder son, to anticipate him in the offering, and to receive the blessing in his stead, as he has already received from him the birthright. The plan succeeds. Rebecca has often been severely censured for this deed. Ex- amination of all the facts in the situation, however, will serve to — throw the incident in another light. Isaac is very old a hundred and thirty-seven years. Moreover, his physical, and perhaps his mental, powers are greatly enfeebled. Rebecca's powers, on the contrary, are as alert as ever, to all appearances. Isaac is about to go counter to what she, and perhaps he, knows is the will of the Lord, as revealed to her. For the Lord told her specific- ally that "the elder shall serve the younger". Now, she prob- ably knew that she could not accomplish her end by direct means. So she used indirect means. Perhaps she has less im- plicit faith in the Lord to do his own work than Abraham would have had in the same situation, but that is because she wants to act rather than merely to think. At all events, she is with the Lord, whereas Isaac is about to be, and but for her would actually be, against the Lord. Her final appearance is when Jacob is sent away to obtain a wife for himself. Esau, forgetful of the covenant, marries daughters of the land. But Jacob must marry from "the seed". So Rebeccca suggests that Jacob be sent away to her kindred for a helpmeet. These facts and incidents show a strong woman, one with: GUIDE LESSONS. 113 an abundant vitality, i)hysical and spiritual, with independence such as one would not expect in the East of the olden time, with a quick, resolute decision of character, and with great insight into the hidden purposes of the Lord, coupled with faith and trust in him, full of resource and tact. QUESTIONS. Who was Rebecca? Give each of the four incidents related of her. What characteristics does she exhibit in each? What do you think of her "deception" of Isaac? Show that Rebecca was a suitable companion to her husband. What dififerences do you observe between the customs of those days and ours? LESSON IL Work and Business. Second W^.ek in March. LESSON in. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in March.