12 EDITORIAL Christ and the Book of Mormon. The Book of Mormon is in the truest sense of the word a revelator of Jesus Christ. Each prophet testifies of the divinity of Christ, and with almost scientific exactness tells us that this knowledge comes only through the gift and power of the Holy Ghost. Indeed the testimony of the Baok of Mormon is so uniform in this matter that it is as if one would say, If you place your hand upon a stove it will be burned; or, water subjected to a gas flame will, if it remain long enough in contact with the flame, boil. There is no other way to bring water to a boiling point except through subjecting it to heat of some kind or other in some way or other. It is the law on which the result is predicated. So there is no other way by which man may Obtain a testimony of the divinity of the Christ, save through the Holy Ghost; it is the law on which the result is predicated. On this matter the Book of Mormon is exceedingly clear and exceedingly direct.: How Canada Received its Name From Mr. David H. Elton, practicing attorney in Lethbridge, Canada, we: have the following interesting item that very likely EDITORIAL 601 has been brought to the fore again through the celebration of the confederation held in Canada during the season. Mr. Elton states that when the fathers of confederation assembled that the matter of a name for the federation of states very naturally had to be decided upon. Someone suggested that the country be known as the Kingdom of Canada, while someone else urged that such a name might prove offensive to the United States of America as it had taken a very definite stand against kings. The person urging this point of view recalled the Biblical phrase: "He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the earth." This suggested a name for the new family of states. The outcome of this discussion resulted in the name Dominion of Canada, which is the name by which the country is known to all the earth. It also is in harmony with the Book of Mormon prophecy which states: "This land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles, and there shall be no kings upon the land, which shall raise up unto the Gentiles. And I will fortify this land against all other nations." The Frontispiece We are using as the frontispiece to this issue a cut of William T. Amitage's painting in the Logan temple entitled "