how it was possible for them to say, "I know." After investigating among the women of my age—women who were two generations removed from the pioneers, I found a startling number of them were in the same predicament. We hoped the gospel was true, we believed it must be true, but we did not know it was true. A short time ago I was given the privilege of working in the Relief Society. In the literary work I delved into the lives of recognized men and women of vision of the United States, and I found almost without exception that these men and women had some of the same hopes, the same dreams, the same ideals that we, as members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have inherited. In their quest of truth they have, for moments at least, received the same vision and walked in the same path as our prophet. That was the beginning, for me, of testimony. It later fell to my lot to go into the details of the lives of the founders and builders of our Church. I was especially interested and held spellbound by. The memories of the founders of the Relief Society—Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith and Emmeline B. Wells, and I came away from those throbbing pages with a knowledge that those women of the early days did not sacrifice and suffer except that they knew this was the everlasting gospel. Then, day by day, I came into contact with the present leaders of the Relief Society—women of rare spirituality and of great faith, and although they have not been faced with pioneer problems, they are also sacrificing and working hard for the upbuilding of this Church, and I knew that they would not be carrying on so gloriously if the gospel were not a gospel of truth; and so, for the first time in my life, after a brief period in ithe Relief Society, I am able to stand with my eldefs and say, I know the gospel is true. There are hundreds of other young women of my age, two generations removed from the pioneers, who are waiting and needing the opportunity that has been given me. They need to GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 605 work hand in hand with you older women of superior spirituality. They need an opportunity to let their faith grow through their works. It is true that with the four-fold nature of the Relief Society work, there isn't a young woman in the country who could not be interested in the work itself, but aside from the fact that that broadens their lives wonderfully, the thing that they need most is an opportunity to let their faith grow. These young women are to be the Relief Society women of the future, and unless their faith is equal to that of the workers of the past, this great organization cannot progress in the future as it has in the past. In order that we may look forward to a greater Relief Society, I pray that these young women who are waiting and yearning for this opportunity of working in the Relief Society, will be given that chance by you who have that in your hands to give. How "THE Exponent" Was STARTED Mrs. Lula Greene Richards (Introducing Mrs. Richards, President Williams said: We have a rock of history. Sister Lula Greene Richards, who was founder of the Women's Exponent, and editor for 5 years, and as the Woman's Exponent played such a prominent part in the history of the Relief Society in Utah, we have thought you would be interested in hearing from the mouth of the woman who. Was the first editor something regarding the beginning of this unique paper—a little of the trials and hardships and labor connected with the founding of that magazine.) Beloved sisters and co-workers in the greatest woman's association in the world—the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—I am happy to greet you this morning; to appear before you as the real veteran of the first publication owned and printed by the women of the Church to which we belong—or by any women in Utah. I am requested to give you a twenty minute talk on that publication, The Woman's Exponent. Naturally I shall have to say something of myself as I was connected with the original thought of that woman's paper although the thought was not originated in my brain. In October, of 1871, fifty-six years ago this month, I was a visitor from Smithfield, Cache Valley, to the general Fall conference in Salt Lake City. I came not only to attend conference, but with the expectation of entering one of the popular schools here as an instructor in one of the lower grades by which means I was to pay my way as a student in some of the higher courses. While completing these arrangements I one day called on Sister Eliza R. Snow and in conversation with her I asked why she did not publish a second volume of her poems for the comfort and: good 
 of the Church. She replied that it cost money to print books, and that she had none for that purpose. A bright thought came to me. I had been secretary of the Smithfield branch of the Relief Society for two or three years, and from what I had learned of the general spirit of the sisters in Zion, I believed they would be glad to give, personally, and make a collection of money sufficient to pay for the printing of a second volume of Eliza R. Snow's poems. This idea I briefly but fervently expressed to Aunt Eliza and asked her permission to write a circular to the sisters and start a movement in line of my suggestion. She rather reluctantly gave her consent and I drafted my circular which she criticised and then approved. Sister Sarah M. Kim. Ball called in and was at once thoroughly interested. She tock the matter as far as this part of the community was concerned into her own hands, and the money for the printing of the book was soon collected. The starting of that little affair introduced my name favorably among some of the leading sisters here at headquarters. Just' before I was to enter school I received a very pathetic letter from home. Serious illness there required my presence as soon as possible. I must get home—but how? The Utah Northern Railroad was completed as far as Brigham City, the remainder of the journey must be an all day's drive in a horse team stage. The worst of it all was I had no money, and it would require seven dollars and fifty cents to pay my way home. I must try what I could do to make that amount of money in the quickest way possible. The Salt Lake Herald was then a new and brilliant paper edited and published by three of our "Mormon" men, John T. Caine, William C. Dunbar and Edward L. Sloan. I did not know any one of these men, but I was going to try something on them. Prayerfully, hopefully and earnestly I spent nearly an entire night writing off a small collection of original poems which I thought were good and interesting. Then I wrote a letter to the editors of the Herald explaining my situation, expressing my admiration of their paper and asking them to pay me seven dollars and fifty cents for the poems I had written for them, which amount would be required to take me home. I put my writing into a large envelope, sealed it, and addressed it to the editor of the Herald, and politely requested an immediate reply which would be called for very soon. I did not want to see the editors or either of them, I knew it was too early for that when I knocked at the front door of their printing office. A boy opened the door and I handed him the envelope, then went and attended to some errands, chiefly the unqualified canceling of my engagement with the school. When I returned to the printing establishment an hour or two later, the same boy that met me there at first, handed me another sealed envelope. GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 607 Brother Cain had written me an encouraging and appreciative letter. They liked my writings and enclosed with the reply the money I had asked for. I was soon at home. A few days after I received a letter from Brother Sloan informing me that a paper was going to be established in Salt Lake City to belong to the women, and that I had been chosen as the editor. I answered thanking him for the consideration, and regretting that I was not qualified for such an undertaking, my abilities had been over-estimated, there were others far more suited to such a calling. He wrote again telling me that my work had inspired him with the thought of the woman's paper which the sisters very much needed and it would be of unlimited worth to them; that he would carry the business part of the work, and I should be the editor; that I was an essential portion of the enterprise and it would not be started without me. Then I referred him to Sister Eliza R. Snow, telling him that nothing of the kind could be started without her sanction and cooperation. He visited Sister Snow and talked the matter over with her. She was delighted with Brother Sloan's plan and. Wrote encouraging me to take hold of the work whole-heartedly. I answered her that if I should enter upon such work I should want President Young to give it to me as a mission. Aunt Eliza read my letter to President Young and then wrote me that he said he would give me that work as a mission and bless me in it. And PresiYoung kept his promise, as he always did., I have tried to explain how The Woman's Exponent was started, and I hope my explanation is satisfactory, as I have conscientiously endeavored to be very exact. I came to the April conference in 1872. We prepared, printed and circulated a prospectus of our paper among the presidents of the different branches of the Relief Society everywhere, and on the first of June that year the first number of the Exponent was issued. My first home here and the first editorial office of the Exponent was in the house of my great uncle Bishop Lorenzo D. Young, in the 18th ward. The equipment of the office was a table with writing materials, a few books, magazines, some chairs and a bed. The paper was first printed by the Herald Publishing Company. It was issued semi-monthly and the subscription price was two dollars a year. During the five years that I held the editorship of the paper, I do not think the subscription list ever exceeded one thousand, if it reached that number. Many of our people were not educated up to the understanding of seeing: why the sisters of the Relief Society should need anything as expensive as a publication of their own, and they sometimes resented being asked to subscribe for it. Some of the different departments featured were: News and Views, on the front page at first, afterwards 
 changed to Editorial Notes. The second page was devoted to Relief Society Reports and Home Affairs. Next, Editorials and Household Hints, Correspondence, called Woman's Voice; Poetry, etc. The first work of publishing the Exponent was done by the Salt Lake Herald Company, and we had considerable difficulty in getting subscriptions sufficient to carry on our work. As I remember, our publications cost $50 an issue. I may be mistaken about that, as it was a semi-monthly and it may be that $50 per month was what we paid. I think our subscription list never exceeded one thousand if it reached that number, during the five years that I was editor of the Exponent. A year after I started the Exponent, I married Levi Edgar Richards, whom I found to be the best critic and help that I could have. Two years later my first baby was born. She lived only two years and four months, and then scarlet fever took her. Eight months later my second child was born and I found that physically, and perhaps otherwise, I was not fitted to bearing and rearing a family and editing a paper at the same time. So I wrote to President Young and told him that he had given me that work as a mission, editing The Woman's Exponent, and that a year later he sealed upon me a higher mission, that of wifehood and motherhood, and that I could not carry on the two successfully. I therefore asked him for an honorable release, which he gave to me willingly and blessed me the same as he had at the beginning of my work. Mrs.'Emmeline B. Wells who had assisted me as Associate Editor from December 1, 1875 to August 1, 1877 succeeded me as editor on August 1, 1877. I want to tell you, my sisters that I found out while I was young, that when we are called to any work by. The proper authority, we need not shirk from it, because the Lord will help us out, and my prayer is that he will bless you all in your calling and prosper the Relief Society which I feel is the greatest organization of women in the world. PREVIEW OF THE Work IN CHILD STUDY For 1928 Dr. Arthur L. Beeley You are to be congratulated certainly on the splendid interest which you are showing in the child welfare movement, and that part of the child welfare movement we call the child study movement. The Relief Society, as you have heard, and as you know better than I, has a tradition of pioneering, it has a tradition of being up-to-date, and I have not the slightest doubt but that the body of women represented here, and the greater body that you represent, can do wonderful things and will continue GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 609 to do wonderful things in the interest of family life, and particularly in the interest of normal child development. I felt quite honored when your officers asked me to assist a committee which had been assigned the task of deciding upon a book which would be suited to your course of study for the next year or two, and I also felt honored in being asked to assist in the preparation of the lessons. Just a word about this child study movement of which you are already a part, and we hope, by the end of the year or two of this course, that you will be the larger part of the movement. This interest of ours in the normal child, in every child, comes largely, I think, because of what we think of as the humanitarian movement. People are more interested in one another, and particularly in helpless children, than they have ever been before in the history of the world, and that is called humanitarianism—interest in qgne another, helpful, constructive brotherly love. Our interest in this country has been large, and our success in this movement has been unusual, partly because we believe in democracy, and that theory is that every child is entitled to consideration. Another reason for the new growth of child study in this country is because of the rather large surplus of wealth that has come from the development of our "natural resources, which we have devoted to this very worthy cause. For instance, there is no country in the world in which so much money and time are spent upon education, and that is a very tangible evidence of our love for one another. It partly arises out of a desire to educate ourselves, because we believe that education is the only universal solvent of our ills. Education includes not only secular education, but character education and religious education. Another reason for the development of the movement in this country is the advance made in recent years in what we call behavior science, which is concerned with understanding human nature. While we do not know very much, we find ourselves with an increasing amount of information about human nature, even though as we find this increasing amount we are much in the position of the person who climbs the mountain, which from the bottom of the valley looks as if it has only one peak, but as he climbs that, he finds another and another. However, it looks as if now there has come to be a body of information, very reliable, upon which we can proceed with this very delicate job of guiding and molding the personalities of children. One or two of the underlying assumptions in this child welfare and child study movement are in the first place, that character and personality are more easily formed than reformed. What I mean is simply this, that it is much easier to take a child in the second or third grade in school and give him such moral and spiritual guidance as he needs, than to take the same child when 
 he reaches the industrial school and attempt to "unring the bells." You cannot unring the bells. This principle is so simple and so self-evident that we sometimes neglect it. The important things in life are sometimes the simplest. Another principle, another assumption which has come from our studies in various fields of what we call the behavior science, is the conviction, born of evidence, that personality is very pliable. Until recently we have believed implicity that personality is pretty well fixed at birth and that each child is a chip off the old block, and that like begets like, and that to improve the race you must improve the germ plasm; and some have gone so far as to apply cattle breeding principles to human breeding, saying it is merely a matter of breeding out the bad stock and breeding in the good. There are many fallacies in that. View. You as religionists, and some of us as religionists and as students of human behavior, believe there is a fundamental difference between horses and human beings. There is a "missing link" between man and all the other animals, of very profound importance. As one speaker very aptly said yesterday at the Utah Conference of Social Work, intelligence is very much like soil in the field. The soil does not determine itself the crop that is to be raised upon it. All of the forces that operate upon a personality are, so to speak, the seed, the sunshine, and the rain, all working together to produce the crop out of this soil. Personality and character are the things which develop in the soil of our heritage. The soil limits the crop you can grow upon it; it does not determine what it shall So it is in personality and character. The nature of the Het bene does not necessarily predict the kind of character and personality that is to grow upon that soil. We have not yet struck the limits of possibilities. A great deal of the training outlined for primary children is based upon the learning of an Italian woman, based upon what she knew of feeble-minded children. It is astounding to see what can be done with children whose mentality is no greater than that of a two-year old with idiots. They can actually teach one another. We are beginning to realize as never before how pliable, how plastic, this human material is, even granted that there are limits set to its physical devleopment, to its strength, and to its potential intelligence. These are some of the assumptions underlying this child study movement. The movement has taken two forms—the physical care and physical hygiene of children, and the mental care and mental hygiene of children. The physical care you are already well acquainted with. A conference in 1912, of individuals interested in child welfare, resulted in the organization of the United States Children's Bureau. The outstanding piece of work that that organization has done (and it has been a tremendous achievement) has been to reduce the amount of infant GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 611 mortality in the United States. They found an undue amount of infant mortality and an unnecessary amount of material mortality. There were too many children dying within the first year of life and too many mothers dying because of childbirth, and this Children's Bureau has devoted itself to the task of reducing sickness and death of mothers at this early period of child life. There has grown up along with that interest a whole network of activity and organization and principles which we call principles of child hygiene, and organization for child welfare. It is a source of pride to some of us to feel that the Relief Society in this Church has cooperated so beautifully with the State Boards of Health in the administration of laws which the government has passed, looking toward the reduction of infant mortality. _ - There is another phase to this movement of child welfare or child study, and that is mental hygiene. This, however, is a little later in developing than the physical. And bodily care of children. We first heard of it when twenty or twenty-five years ago a man by the name of Dr. William Healy organized the first child guidance clinic in connection with the Chicago Juvenile Court, when that court decided it was going to treat delinquent children as sick children instead of punishing them. They found the thing they needed most was someone to tell them what children were and what they needed. They decided that if you are not going to punish Johnny for stealing the automobile, you must find out why Johnny stole the automobile, whether he has something unusual about his life, about his environment, whether he has vicious habits, etc. You will begin to realize the necessity of the employment of individuals skilled in understanding these things—the physicians, the psychologist, the social worker, and others. That service growing up with the Chicago Juvenile Court has been helpful and has now become so universal that there is not a juvenile court of any significance in the country but what has attached to it a service of that kind. We have been in a State Conference two days, and have convinced ourselves that we need the same service in our own juvenile courts. It is not only a question of financial support, it is a question of vision. I remember sometime ago, a small community in this State asking us what they should do in order to wisely expend $5,000 for playground equipment, how many slides and teeter totters, etc., should be purchased. We said, employ a person to whom you can justly pay a salary of $5,000, and let that person rustle the equipment—you may not even need it. It is a question of vision as well as a question of means. Last Saturday the University played the first football game in a new stadium—which is a beautiful thing. There are a lot of other things, however, that the University needs which are equally imperative with the need of 
 a stadium, but we do not get them,. Probably because we are not as interested in them as we are in football. That is one reason why it is easier to pry lose money for some things than others. The importance must be felt, then the money will be easier to get. The University did not find much difficulty in getting money for the stadium, but they have found it difficult to get money for a child guidance clinic at the University which would serve the State. This child guidance movement, able to render expert service, has become so widespread as to be almost universal, and along with that movement there has come the necessity of educating parents and teachers and social workers as to what child need is, and how best it can be. Secured, and that is the reason for the child study movement. It is recognized that the things the psychologist can do in a clinic can be done by parents in the home. So there has been developed the technique of child study. Organizations are now complete over the country, and in foreign countries, which are stimulating systematic study on the part of parents. The purpose of this volume, The Child: His Nature and His Needs, which has been adopted as a text for the next two years by the Relief Society, is to give out reliable information on the needs and care of children. If this book were sold as books are regularly sold in the book market, it would cost from $6, to $7, and it is going to be sold at $1.25 in a special Relief Society edition, with the Relief Society inscription on the cover. The founder of the Children's Foundation, which makes this work possible, has set aside large sums of money for the dissemination of this information in this form, and what you do is to become a subscriber to the foundation—you don't buy the book, although it is your property. The president has said that "The Children's Foundation has for its objects the study of the child and the dissemination of knowledge promotive of the well-being of children." It came into existence at Valparaiso, Indiana, late in 1921, when a charter was granted to it by the State of Indiana as a corporation not for profit, and a gift was made available to its Trustees for effecting its organization'and developing its program of work. "The Foundation has first undertaken the task of appraising present-day knowledge relating to the nature, well-being, and education of children, and through this volume, The Child: His Nature and His Needs, it seeks to make this knowledge available for practical use everywhere by those who are in immediate contact with children, fashioning their intellect, moulding their character and influencing their physical development." "The book is a compilation of the best thought of about twenty or thirty different writers. It is edited, however, by a very able authority on child care, who says that in asking these GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 613 twenty or thirty different writers to contribute to this task: 'It is expected that you will make a survey of what is known in your special department, and will present this kngwledge in such phrases and in such form that it can be readily understood and its importance appreaciated by those who are actually in contact with childhood and youth. It is expected further that you will show how the knowledge which you present relates concretely and practically to the every-day problems of dealing with the young. It is not desired that you should attempt to apply this. Knowledge in every possible way in which it can be applied, but only that you should go far enough to show the parent, the teacher, and the social worker that the knowledge in question has a vital relation to the actual task of rearing the young so that they may gain physical, intellectual, social, and moral stability and efficiency. Neither the trustees of The Children's Foundation nor the Editor of this volume will impose any particular views upon you in the treatment of your theme. You will have a free hand, only so that you conform to the general aims of The Children's Foundation and the objects of this volume." This volume attempts to bring together in non-technical language, the results of the researches made in these various fields and to indicate what are some of the rules of healthy child life and growth. I think the mechanical features of this book will be very appealing—the large type, and good substantial paper, the photographs and illustrations which are contained in it. There are also marginal notes and topic headings, and it is my understanding that the Relief Society is intending to prepare lessons which will parallel the reading and systematic study of this book, In conclusion let me say that I am particularly interested in the Relief Society, as I am in all other auxiliaries of this Church. I feel keenly the opportunity which it is to be a member of this Church, and I am thinking now of a conversation which I had with the chief of the United States Children's Bureau, who was here last year, Miss Grace Abbott, when in speaking of the administration of the Sheppard-Towner law, she said, 'There is probably no group of people in this country where this Sheppard-Towner law, which is attempting to reduce the rate of mortality of infants and mothers, can be more satisfactorily administered than it is in the 'Mormon' communities." It is a source of pride, it is an evidence of the superhuman ingenuity which is back of this organization and its purposes (and when I say the Church I mean Relief Society, Mutual Improvement, 'and all other auxiliaries.) The Relief Society has demonstrated in that particular bit of work its tremendous power to do a job. It is an indication of the strength and cohesiveness of its organization; it indicates what can be done when a dynamic purpose is given it. I woud 
 like to suggest that we have many problems in our midst, but we do not need to wait for someone from Washington to tell us they need solving. If you have been attending the State Confernce of Social Work here you will realize that we have a tremendous problem of pauperism, even in our own communities, that our skirts are not clean by any manner of means. If they were, our county infirmaries would not be filled, our hospital in Provo would not be overcrowded, we would not have to face the charge that the majority of delinquents at the Industrial School are our boys and girls, and we would not be confronted with the information that too many of the names on the state prison lists are those of our boys and girls, probably of Church affiliation. It seems there are some things which we can all do together, and the hope is that the same kind of enthusiasm and success which you achieved with the Sheppard-Towner law can be achieved in all other projects, which will be the case if you unitedly decide to work together as you usually do. We tried at the last, session of the legislature to get a decent, quiet and attractive place where persons whom we call feeble-minded might be placed (and it is no disgrace to be feeble-minded). We could not get it from the legislature. We have been trying for a long time to interest our legislators to make competent provision. There are only three other states in the union which are like Utah in having failed to provide a decent, intelligent place where these children can be housed and educated. If I were to tell you that the only school for feeble-minded in the state is a little private dwelling in the very heart of this city, you would begin to realize the need for an institution for these people. This is only a sample of many things we need, and I do not know of another group which has such power and such influence as the Relief Society in 'helping to secure these needs; and I feel confident, that our hopes will be achieved, that we shall convert these glorious Christian principles of loving our brothers into goodly living together. May the Lord bless you in achieving these splendidly worthy purposes. He has blessed you and he will continue to bless you, because you are whole-hearted, sincere and worthy in your purposes. How Old isa Woman at Forty? By 'Ruth Ward Mumford Is a woman as old as she looks? Among my poor possessions | treasure a faded photograph of my mother, made during her early twenties when she was a blushing bride. Were she to come to life and step out of that picture today any gallant young man would hasten to offer his seat to the "dear old lady" or to assist her across the traffic-ridden street. But block out from that oldfashioned picture the fussy, rouchinged neck-piece, the quaint unyielding bodice, and the tightly drawn, ungraceful coiffure and you will see unmistakably the same co-quettish eyes, the glowing cheeks and the kindly, sparkling smile that greets one today from the billboard girl "whose skin you love to touch." Appearances often deceive. The girl of a generation past seemed bent on making herself look as sedate and old as possible. The girl of today, of whatever age, contrives by ways that are dark and ingenious to look young. Is a woman as old as she feels? She has schooled herself never to feel older than a cavorting colt or a playful kitten. No modern woman under sixty will permit herself to feel old. But why not be frank and measure a woman's age, or a man's for that matter, by the almanac? Because, to the woman of forty the years that have flown mean nothing. The past is gone forever. She is living in the blazing present and anticipating a yet-brighter future. Besides, the remorseless stride of time does not determine the age of living tissues. In the children's ward you may see poor little creatures of ten or twelve months, wizened and careworn as an octogenarian. Their tissues actually are, to all imténts and purposes, old; burnt out. Premature age in men of forty is sometimes found deeply etched, not only in the sallow wrinkled face, but also in the vital tissues. Such men are not only apparently, but actually aged at forty. On the other hand, there are men and women of eighty whose arteries are still pliable, eyes bright and keen, muscular tissues firm and spirits charmingly nimble and youthful. Thomas A. Edison is such a youth. The calendar is no more reliable in measuring age than is the mirror or the trick of self-deception. But why should a woman of forty be concerned about her age at all? Because age forty, measured by the family Bible, ushers in that golden period of life called middle age. At age forty most men and women have become stablized, but not static, The flush of youth has been mellowed into a surer judgment. Rosy dreams have been rudely smashed but with the awakening have come beautiful, substantial realities and serene satisfactions, 
 The babies that once absorbed so much of a woman's emotional and physical life are no longer the ceaseless care they were. They remain just as dear, but now they are beginning to repay something of the love and affection invested in them. Now in these golden forties, fifties and sixties, the young woman has opportunity to relish the, creature comforts of life and to enjoy the creations of art and music, to indulge some of her own longsuppressed ambitions. Whatever may be the charms of childhood, youth or old age, the forties represent the meridian of life, and this period may with reasonable care be extended well into the seventies. Just because the golden forties, fifties and sixties present such an ideal picture is all the more reason why the actual situation, with regard to health, is so tragic. Middle. Life has, with considerable justice, been called the dangerous age. During the forties certain diseases that handicap the body make their unwelcome appearance most frequently than 'at other ages. Cancer is one of the enemies of middle life. But while cancer has not yet yielded its secret we do know that most cases are curable if discovered early. Tuberculosis strikes hardest during young adulthood but even at forty or fifty we cannot afford to let down the defenses against this enemy. Diseases of the heart, arteries and kidneys, are often the great despoilers of the golden age. These are mostly disorders of wear and tear; of tissue decay, and they announce themselves usually only after irreparable damage has been done. Fortunately'the doctor, with his instruments of precision and his experience, can often detect the onset of these diseases of middle age when they are in the early stages. Generally speaking, the conditions that handicap or destroy life in middle age are curable or at least remediable in proportion as they are discovered early. Neglect is the sand that wears down | and prematurely ages most machines in middle age. The woman who expects to be forty for a long time will give her body sensible, intelligent care. The latest fashion—it is not a fad—is to have a physical examination periodically; some say once a year. The purpose of this stock-taking idea is not to find out how sick one is, but what one's capital in terms of health really amounts to., A careful examination of every organ and part will do more to determine the true age of a person than anything else. It will help to conserve those physical assets which make for youthfulness and beauty, for, as everyone knows, damage must be nipped in the bud, if its later serious consequences are to be escaped.