Diet for the School Child By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education The diet of the school child is the most important single factor for its success in school. From careful studies made by Dr. Emerson Holt and others on the relationship between failure, retardation and special promotion, to height and weight, there is a very marked correlation. From a study made in Washington, D. C., of boys and girls who had had one or more special promotions up to the eighth grade, every one of these pupils weighed a little more than the weight recorded in tables showing the average weight for height. This margin of safety increases resistance, tends to stabilize the nervous system and is probably the result of good food habits, regular meals, adequate sleep, and other indications of living up to the rules of the health game. Where a successful school lunch has been put into operation there is usually a noticeable improvement in the grades made by the children. This is particularly noticeable where the child is on the border line of malnutrition. The extra amount of milk, vegetables and milk dishes usually served in the school lunch are a valuable contributing factor toward turning probable failure into success, both in terms of weight and school progress. The warm dish tends to relieve fatigue, stimulates flow of digestive juices and also makes the box lunch more palatable. Unfortunately the average school lunch available is almost worse than none at all. Highly seasoned meats in terms of hot dogs, candy bars, unbuttered sandwiches, soda pop, and often poor quality pie or ice cream, are not suitable for food for the growing child. Too often, too, the price of school lunch dishes is excessive for their value. It is indeed unfortunate that more Parent Teacher Associations, or other women's organizations, do not sponsor an adequate school lunch. It has been done successfully in several districts in the State. For the past two years, for instance, some of the mothers in Cedar City, anxious to have their children, who had some distance to go to school, enjoy their lunches, have cooperated with the homemaking teacher and worked out the following plans: l These parents have furnished the materials so that at least one nutritious hot dish has been served to their children to supplement the cold lunch brought from home. One of the interesting things about this lunch project is that very little money has been used in exchange for school lunches. When a family kills an animal, meat for roast, boiling, stew or soup is sent to the department after arrangements have been made with the foods DIET FOR THE SCHOOL CHILD 575 teacher. The same organization holds with vegetables, butter and milk. One family who produced a dependable quality of milk delivered a gallon a day which more than paid for the hot lunch dishes served several children during the year. This school lunch prepared by girls in their regular foods classes has become an institution. One of the requirements for the teacher of the present year was that she must be able to handle the school lunch problem. What has been done in this community can without doubt be done in other communities. Another interesting result of this experiment is that there is a general belief that children who have the hot dish are doing better work and are in better physical condition than. They would otherwise be. Iron county, by the way, ? is doing some of the best health work being done in the state. They are making concerted, consistent, and determined efforts to have their children free to gain and free to learn. There is much psychology connected with the feeding of the school child, for in the excitement of getting to school on time many high strung, nervous children are too much "on edge" to really enjoy their meals. This is especially true where family meals are not very regular and inclined to be late. Meals should be served on the minute so that children will be trained to feel that there is plenty of time for them to eat their meal, get to school without running and. Still have a little time for play. Permanent physical injury results where the needs of the school child as to meal time are not given careful consideration. Too often mothers allow some of the mechanics of housekeeping to overshadow their responsibility of feeding their school children so that they will be unquestionably healthy and happy. Special care should be exercised over the six-year-old who, when school begins, enters a new world. Going to school for a child of this age is an advent which overshadows past experience. Moreover, the excitement of getting to school is very apt to interfere with the appetite for breakfast. The wise mother will, therefore, quietly give the child to understand that breakfast is quite as important as school, and that unless the child eats fruit, cereal, milk, toast and possibly a little egg or bacon, that he will become too tired before 12 o'clock comes to do good work. A vigorous protest should be entered against the carelessness of some mothers who allow children to run hurriedly to school with only a piece of dry bread or bread and jam, half of which they are apt to throw away as they run. One nutrition worker sums up her regard for this shiftless responsibility by saying: 'Parents who do not see to it that school children have an adequate breakfast, in peace, ought to be required to go without food for a least twenty-four hours." If all of the mothers in Logan and vicinity, who have had the 576 THE opportunity of hearing Dr. McCollum the past two summers, will live up to nutrition requirements set by him of a quart of milk a day, ten drops of cod liver oil twice a week, green leaf vegetables, root vegetables, citrus and fresh fruits, they will have the right to expect noticeably a more sturdy and successful group of children than the average. A satisfactory nutrition program backed by enthusiastic public opinion is not of overnight growth. Poor food habits cannot be so easily changed. There must be a gradual conversion to new principles, an interest in new foods or food combinations aroused, and a firm belief that the change in food habits is worth while. Many people have the idea that their children are free from rickets, anemia, and other striking evidences of malnutrition. This is not always the case. There is far too much evidence in every community of malnutrition in nervous, high-strung children, noticeable rachitic changes in bones, and apparent anemia in many little boys and girls of all ages, for anyone to feel self-satisfied with the average child's health. In many cases the health standards of a family or community are too low. Many people believe that living in the country insures good health although this is not always borne out by health clinic records. More parents need to feel a distinct pride in feeding children with the definite aim in view to obtain solid, well shaped teeth, straight bones of good average size, red blooded-and steady nerves. The noon meal, which is generally considered to be the best time to serve dinner where there are children, should always be served on time. Further, it should be a well-balanced menu to meet the needs of the group. Usually this meal should include bread and butter, meat or meat substitute, two vegetables, other than potato, preferably one of the green leaf vegetables, or it may be used in a simple salad, and a simple dessert. Milk should also be used, if there isn't generous use of milk in the vegetables or dessert. Some mothers may think this is impossible. It isn't for the average home as the cost isn't as much more as is usually supposed if careful selection is made in terms of cost. Usually, too, an appreciable saving may be effected if storage facilities for root vegetables make the purchase of these in large amounts possible. Almost anyone can have a box of sand in a basement to keep these vegetables from drying up. A sufficient amount of these vegetables can be cooked at one time for two meals. Keep them in a cool place, and do not add butter or sauce to the unserved portion, or it will have a warmed-over taste when it is served. If all of the housekeepers would only believe that two vegetables and a simple dessert are easier than one vegetable and two desserts or one elaborate dessert there would be less objection to the DIET FOR THE SCHOOL CHILD 577 extra vegetable requirement which is a better means of health insurance. The following short cuts may help those belonging to the "Doubting Thomas Group." Cookies are usually easier for the sweet bit at the end of the meal than cakes. Plain cakes may be given a quick icing effect by sprinkling sugar with a bit of cinnamon in it before the cake is baked. Many housekeepers make a five-cup batch of fondant and pack in pint fruit jars. When cake icing is desired they take some of this, warm slightly, thin with a very little cream and spread on top of the cake. A variety of easy puddings should be in the recipe catalog of every housekeeper. There are almost an endless number of sego, rice, and bread puddings that may be varied by using brown sugar, honey, or carmelizing part of the granulated sugar. For flavoring, add a little ginger with a little vanilla or lemon, or add raisins, cocoanut, a few rolled peanuts, chopped figs or dates; dried peaches or apricots that have been soaked may be added for variety. Puddings composed largely of milk and eggs are also a very valuable part. Of the supper menu. May a plea be made for one hot dish for the supper when the weather is not warm. This is also a satisfactory means of serving part of the vegetable requirement. Frequently the supper of bread and milk and fruit is inadequate without the addition of a cream soup, warmed over vegetable, or a more concentrated dessert than fresh or stewed fruit. The extra enjoyment of the meal and the general feeling of happiness which results are much more worth while. Every family having electric lights should have some electrical or other contrivance whereby a quick hot dish can be prepared without making a fire in the range. Some housekeepers, mindful of their families' welfare, slowly cook rice or cereal in milk during the preparation of the noon meal, and then use the electrical or oil stove for heating it. While this is not an ideal way, proper health standards are worth consideration. Proper feeding of school children is one of the best means of keeping down taxes, because there will be fewer failures and less retardation. In our average sized school district this might easily mean one or more extra teachers who are required to struggle against malnutrition, lassitude and irritability which result when the child is not receiving food right in amounts and kinds. Some may question this, but careful experiments have been carried on to show that a proper kind of school lunch actually pays the school board. If care is exercised over all of the meals, isn't it reasonable to believe that it will not only pay the school district to have intelligent mothers, but won't it also pay the family, community and nation to have well nourished husky youngsters to carry on the work of tomorrow? THE Aside from food, the next biggest factors for the health of the school child are sleep and sunshine. Every elementary school child should have eleven hours of sleep. Those in junior high school should have at least ten hours, and high school boys and girls should average nine hours as a minimum requirement. Neither adult nor child can do satisfactory work with an inadequate amount of healthy restful sleep in rooms with windows wide open Unfortunately, many children suffer from too little sleep and as a result have to be almost pulled out of bed to get them awake. This is unfortunate and should be remedied by having more hours of sleep in the earlier part of the evening. As a means of safeguarding health, every child should have opportunity of playing in the sunshine every day. There is some good argument for short sleeves and socks which expose the wrists, elbows and knees of the normal rapidly growing child. Direct sunlight helps to prevent rickets, Sun therapy is becoming more and more important. It is possible that sun baths will be found to prevent and cure many of the diseases from which children and adults suffer, at the present time. Why all the emphasis on more vegetables and milk? The answer is that the newer medicine is prevention rather than cure. The new dietetics also aims to prevent illness in the baby. Obesity, or emaciation in the child or adult, anemia or rickets in children or adults. Everyone should realize that anemia and rickets are decidedly nutritional diseases. Prevention of one or both have been discussed in these articles. No less authority than Dr. McCollum states that if everyone would live up to the rules of positive health that rickets could be stamped out among small children in two years' time. The scars on older children will remain, but some headway could be made. Anemia and rickets are often found together, for both result from inadequate diet. The following accepted height and weight tables recently compiled by Drs. Wood and Baldwin were printed by the American Child Health Association and are worth careful consideration. Every child should be encouraged to have a margin of safety of a few pounds over weight, rather than being content with being underweight. Mothers should know whether or not their children's weight for height and for years is approximately normal: The tables are to be used as follows: Take for example, a 14 year old boy who is 64 inches tall. By following the numbers horizontally opposite the figure 64 it will be found that he should weigh 113 pounds. A 12 year old boy who is 64 inches tall should weigh 109 pounds, and an 18 year old boy should weigh 126 pounds. Age is taken at the nearest birthday; height at the nearest DIET FOR THE SCHOOL CHILD 579 WEIGHT?HEIGHT AGE TABLE FOR BOYS OF SCHOOL AGE
Height and corresponding weights by age:
Age ranges and corresponding measurements: 6?9 YEARS: Height (Medium), Weight (Medium); Daily (Lbs.) (Tot.) 10?14 YEARS: Height (Medium), Weight (Medium); Daily (Lbs.) (Tot.) 15?19 YEARS: Height (Medium), Weight (Medium); Daily (Lbs.) (Tot.) A child years old at any time between 514 and 6% years. The figures not starred represent exact averages in round numbers. The starred figures represent smoothed or interpolated values. The following percentage of net weight has been added for clothing (shoes, coats, and sweaters are not included): For weights from 35 to 63 lbs ?3.5% of net weight is added. For weights 64 lbs. And over?4% of net weight is added. Prepared by Bird T. Baldwin, Ph. D., and Thomas D. Wood, M. D., published by the American Child Health Association, and reprinted by their permission. Is considered 6 580 THE WEIGHT?HEIGHT AGE TABLE FOR GIRLS OF SCHOOL AGE
Height and corresponding weights by age:
Age ranges and corresponding measurements: 5?9 YEARS: Height (Medium) 45, Weight (Medium) 45, Daily (Lbs.) (Tot.) 47, 49, 50, 52, 54, 56, 58, 60, 62, 64 10?14 YEARS: Height (Medium) 57, Weight (Medium) 59, Daily (Lbs.) (Tot.) 61, 63, 65, 67, 69, 71, 73, 75, 77, 79 15?19 YEARS: Height (Medium) 83, Weight (Medium) 85, Daily (Lbs.) (Tot.) 87, 89, 91, 93, 95, 97, 
The following percentage of net weight has been added for clothing (shoes and sweaters are not included): For weights from 35 to 65 lbs?3% of net weight is added. For weights from 66 to 82 lbs.?2.5% of net weight is added. For weights form 83 Ibs. And over?2% of net weight is added. See also notes on "Weight?Height?Age Table for Boys of School Age." EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto?