Of Interest to Women
Conducted by Lalene H. Hart
Which is better, squash or pumpkin for making pies?
Since colonial days the pumpkin pie has been a favorite and popular one, especially at this time of year. The best ones, however, are made of squash. It has a more delicate texture and sweeter flavor. It requires less sugar, and since it is not so watery as pumpkin, more milk need be used. There is a difference in squash, too. The dry, mealy or fluffy type when cooked is best.
Do not leave a metal spoon in the pan if you want the contents to boil quickly. The spoon is a good conductor of heat and much is carried off, hence the delay in cooking.
When plants have to be left a long time without water, try this method. Put as many bricks in a tub as there are plants to be watered. Pour enough water in the tub to barely cover the brick. Stand a flower pot on each brick. The latter being porous absorbs the moisture and sufficient water is carried to the plant to keep it fresh.
Before putting new oilcloth on the table, paste a square of heavy muslin on the inside of the cloth where the corners of the table come. This lengthens the wearing qualities.
If, when traveling, you are required to carry bottles of medicine or liquid of any kind, dip the tops in melted paraffine wax to avoid danger of leakage.
To shrink woolen yarn before it is knitted, or crocheted into scarfs, sweaters, etc., wrap it in a cloth and place in a steamer, or put into a hammock placed in the wash boiler, for several hours. Keep the water boiling. Shake out and dry in the wind. If put into too hot a sunshine the white wool is apt to turn brown and be streaked. This method is a good way to treat yarn that has been used once and raveled out. It can be used again and will be as fluffy as new yarn.
In homes where the year's supply of flour is purchased at one time, a convenient and sanitary way of storing it is to use a large galvanized iron, or any other strong mouse-proof metal bin. Place in the attic or any other convenient place so that a spout no smaller than eight inches in diameter coming from the center of the oval bottom of the bin, will connect with the kitchen in the most convenient place for obtaining the flour. It is best in an enclosed side-cupboard with space allowed under the spout to admit a container for receiving the flour. Care must be taken that the receiving door, seams, and the stop in spout, are substantial and close-fitting ? Mrs. C. N. H., Malta, Idaho.
When the field corn has ripened, is the time to make hominy. To make lye hominy dissolve one teaspoon red seal lye in one quart of boiling water. Put this in an enamel kettle, add the corn from two large ears, cook for thirty minutes or until the hulls will slip off easily when pressed between the fingers. When all the hulls are loosened, take from the stove, add cold water and stir. Pour off the water, repeat several times, then take a wire potato-masher and churn it, adding and pouring off water frequently until the corn is clean. Cover with water, heat to boiling point and drain. Repeat several times until you are sure all the lye is washed off. Add more water and cook until tender, add salt when the corn is nearly done. Then bottle and seal. It may be cooked in a pressure cooker, which will insure it keeping perfectly. Mrs. A. H., Blanding, Utah.
To prepare mustard which resembles the commercial product use the following: 1 tbsp. Flour. 3 tbsp. Mustard. 1 tbsp. Sugar 1 tsp. Turmeric. Mix these ingredients and add one egg, beat until smooth, mix thoroughly with 1 cup of vinegar diluted with water and sugar to suit taste. Boil until thick stirring constantly to avoid lumps. Pour into glass jars while hot and seal. It keeps indefinitely ?Mrs. O. H., Spanish Fork, Utah.
Very attractive and economical holders for ironed doilies and centerpieces can be made by using cartons or any stiff. Cardboard. Cut in pieces the size and shape of the doilies, then with library paste, paste white paper or cloth on the inside and figured or plain colored paper or cretonne on the outside. Punch holes on each side and tie two together with ribbon. These will lay perfectly flat in a drawer and will keep the doilies from being wrinkled or soiled?Mrs. E. B. S., St. Thomas, Nevada.
A few drops of iodine applied to a bee or insect sting will give almost instant relief and will prevent the affected part from swelling if used at once. Do not bind after application. Mrs. L. A., Logan, Utah.
I have found this preparation for cleaning wall paper to be equally as good as the commercial product and is much cheaper. Use one quart of flour and one tablespoon of alum. Mix together in cold water until a little thicker than pancake batter. Cook it, stirring all the time, until it becomes
so thick that you can not stir it any more, then mix in either of the following you may have: cornmeal, germ-made or bran, until the dough does not stick to your fingers. Rub the paper lightly with this and it will look fresh and new. This will not remove fly specks. Some of the market preparations will not do this either?Mrs. E. S. J., Mapleton, Utah.
The springs of an old window shade make good substitute springs for a screen door. They may also be used for the baby's swing and the bird's cage. The rollers of the discarded shade may be covered and used for rolling large centerpieces and doilies to keep them from being soiled.? Mrs. O. J. H., Ogden, Utah.
When children are going to school there are sometimes many stains of ink on their clothing. I find this very helpful in removing them. Just place the part that is stained in a small vessel of boiling water to which has been added a heaping teaspoon of common baking soda and let stand until water is quite cool. If ink is not all removed repeat the same treatment and then wash in usual way.? Mrs. P. N. P., Winter Quarters, Utah.
When the first cold or stormy weather comes is the time to prevent colds, especially with children. In nine cases out of ten a cold can be prevented by gargling the throat and spraying the nostrils with a solution of boric acid. I tried this simple remedy in my home last winter and the entire family were practically free from colds. If there is no nasal spray in the home snuffing the solution up the nose thoroughly is just as effective. Salt water, though not quite so good, may be used in place of the boric acid.? Mrs. G. W. Al., Logan, Utah.