Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Swiss and German Mission. The following cordial letter of appreciation and greeting was recently received. By President Clarissa S. Williams from Mrs. Eliza W. Tadje, president of the Relief Societies of the Swiss-German mission: "I wish herewith, in the name of the members of the Relief Societies of the Swiss and German mission, to express our gratitude for the friendly greetings from you conveyed to us by Miss Alice L. Reynolds, during her visit to our mission. It was indeed a great joy to us, dear Sister Williams, to know that you think of your far-away sisters; and we wish to assure you that we are striving as best we can to contribute to the success of our great organization, the direction of which rests in your worthy hands. "It is a great pleasure for us to be able to tell you that the women of this mission recognize your blessed endeavors, as General President of the Church Relief Societies, and we trust that your health shall permit you to stand at the head of this organization for many years to come. "We send you simultaneously, with sincerest wishes that your endeavors may continue to be crowned with success, the most devoted greetings of all the women of this mission as your faithful co-laborers in the work of the Lord. "The Relief Society Presidencies in the branches of the Swiss and German Mission in the conferences of Basel, Bern, Zurich, Berlin, Breslau, Chemnitz, Dresden, Frankfurt, Hannover, Hamburg, Koln, Konigsberg, Leipsig, Stettin, Stuttgart, Vienna, (Signed) Margaret Hoyer." Granite Stake. The Granite stake Relief Society held an elaborate and most successful carnival in each of the nine wards of the stake, simultaneously, on the fifth Tuesday in September, at the regular meeting hour. The special object of the carnival was: to honor the mothers of the stake; to pay a tribute to motherhood: to create an interest among the young mothers in the Relief Society lesson work which is designed to be especially helpful to young mothers in rearing their children, to stimulate interest generally throughout the stake, and to start out the year's work with enthusiasm. THE All mothers of each ward were invited to participate, in full, in the carnival, regardless of creed, their names and addresses being furnished by the visiting teachers. An excellent outlined program with copy of short drama, and suggestions, was sent to the wards several weeks before time for the carnival, in order that there might be adequate preparation. The program and some of the suggestions follow: MOTHER'S CARNIVAL (To be held in each ward in Granite Stake, September 29, 1925) (Suggestive Program) 2:00 p. M.?Formal reception with ward presidency and visiting General and Stake officers in receiving line. Soft lullaby music. 2:30 p. M.?Congregational Hymn, "Count Your Blessings." Prayer. Lullaby Music Short Drama, "Cornelia." Lullaby Music. Story by ward Literary Class Leader. Music or Dance Number. Few remarks on glory of Motherhood and why it should be honored; and announcement of the year's program of Relief Society Work, by Ward Relief Society President. Presentation of special gifts or prizes by M. I. A. Girls if possible to:. (a) Youngest Mother present. (b) Oldest Mother present. (c) Mother of most sons. (d) Mother of most daughters. - (e) Mothers of twins. (f{) Mothers of triplets. (g) Stake prize for longest membership in Relief Society of any mother present; second, and third prizes for those who have belonged next longest times. Presentation of gifts to all other mothers present. Grand March of the Mothers in two's, led by those who have borne the most children, followed by those who have borne the next number, and so on.; Light refreshments served, cafeteria style. Doxology. Benediction. MOTHER'S CARNIVAL (September 29, 1925) Suggestions and Notes Have nothing morbid or sad in the program. Feature lullaby music and cradle songs. Use M. I. A. Girls as helpers wherever possible. Send a gift to all mothers who are detained at home through sickness. During carnival, ward recreation committee might hold a little