Guide Lessons - Lesson III. Genealogy - Welsh Surnames
======================================================================

LESSON III. Genealogy. Third Week in September. WELSH SURNAMES. Outlines For Class Leader. Origin. Tribal relations. Proper names followed usual customs. Surnames very recent and most are sirenames. Lesson Statement. The origin of the Welsh people rests in the mists of antiquity. They are a branch of the Celtic race and in some characteristics they resemble the Scotch and the Irish, but while they have much of the wit which is common to the Irish race it is tempered with something of the taciturnity of their cousins, the Highland Scotch. They are rather a silent people, not boisterous like the Irish, but they do resemble them in the haughty pride which is natural to a Welshman, while no one is so clannish as are the Welsh people. There are numerous witty stories about the Welshman's ideas concerning the antiquity of his race and their pride of birth. They would interpret the nursery rhyme to read "Paddy was a Welshman, and Paddy was a Chief." While on a visit to England sometime since we were shown a very long Welsh pedigree. One-third of the way down the line from the earliest ancestors was written: "About this time Father Adam was born." The history of the Welsh people is found in every general history and many of our Welsh people are familiar with their own beginnings. The custom of giving children proper names followed closely that of surrounding tribes and peoples. When Caesar invaded Britain he found a people governed by their Druids and bards. The Druids were the priests while the bards were poets and genealogists. The bards would sit for hours and recite over the pedigrees of the various chieftains giving to each a little historic verse of descriptive praise. This seems to have been a common practice throughout modern Europe, and even the Hawaiians and Samoans inherited this custom, derived no doubt from their common Hebraic ancestors. The Welsh, themselves, say they are descendants from Gomar, the grandson of Noah through Japheth, but we may be sure that such of them as received the gospel, have come through the loins of Ephraim, when the Ten Tribes were scattered through the north countries and left their seed in the many nations through which they journeyed. At the invasion of Caesar, the Welsh people shared in the experiences of their English and Scotch neighbors but they were the last race in Great Britain to adopt surnames. It is true that they had the appellation, "Ap," which means "the son of," and when a man was referred to he was spoken of as Ap-Jenkin-ap-Griffith-ap-Robbin-ap-William-ap-Reese-ap-Evan. In other words, Jenkin the son of Griffith the son of Robbin, the son of William the son of Reese the son of Evan. King Henry VIII issued an edict to the principal land owners in Wales to adopt surnames, but the common people did not follow that example until much later. The Welsh were very religious and for a thousand years most of them have had Bible names. When surnames were finally adopted they simply added "s" to the proper name, meaning "son of," and we have Jones, which is the son of John, Davies, Williams, Thomas, Johns, Howells and Abrahams, all surnames derived from sirenames. Modern Welshmen have sometimes taken a middle name to distinguish them from the many bearers of their own given names and surnames. QUESTIONS. What is the origin of the Welsh people? Who are the Celts? What were the tribal religions of the Welsh people? How did they resemble their Scotch and Irish neighbors? What proper names are common in Wales? How were their surnames usually formed? Ask a descendant of the Welsh people to give a sketch of his ancestors and surname to the class. Home Courses. THE SIGNIFICANCE OF PLAYGROUNDS IN THE COMMUNITY LIFE. Lesson IV. Fourth Week in September. As cities have developed, an increasing proportion of the nation's population has been removed from the influence of the open country with all that it means for our national health and vigor and clean imagination. Cities have met this situation in three ways:— one is the making possible of brief visits of children and elderly people to the country during the summer time; another is the provision of city parks, which, with their fields and woodlands and stretches of green grass and water, preserve some of the beautiful features of the country for city eyes to feast upon; the third is the public playground which offers to city children a chance for some free sport in the open air and on Mother Earth. The playground is a place near at hand to which children can run on short notice and from which they can return quickly, so that the playground becomes an integral part of the daily life. Experience with the city playgrounds has proved that aside from its recreational advantage, the playground is of such great value to the right development of the child that its establishment for all children and all communities is justified and most desirable. It is not at all sufficient that the children be protected from danger during their helpless years, but that they be furnished with sturdy, disease-resisting bodies is equally important. Every child has a right to be as healthy as present knowledge can make him; health under conditions of modern life is not a thing which will take care of itself. The child bred under present conditions of civilization cannot be relied upon to grow to healthy, vigorous maturity like a rabbit in the woods. He needs special education in health habits and recreation if he is to develop normally. The child should be taught that health is more to be desired than fame or wealth — that it is the foundation of all real success and happiness. And supervised play is one of the best means of attaining and retaining that health. Recreation is essential to the moral life of any people. It is the constructive method of making individuals into good citizens, and the making of good sturdy citizenship is most important. The play spirit teaches us how better to live and work together; so there is a broad relation between the playground movement and other efforts for better citizenship and better community life. Play means not only a good time, but from the child's point of view, it is serious business; moreover, it has vital significance in educational development. The playgrounds are training grounds for lessons that cannot be taught within the four walls of home or school. In a typical playground the policy of allowing children to learn by experience, but safe-guarding the experience so that it shall not be disastrous, is one of the underlying principles. In addition to receiving the physical benefits that come from wholesome outdoor exercise and the intellectual benefits that come from useful constructive work, the little children playing on the sand pile learn fundamental lessons in mutual rights. The older children learn lessons in mutual relationships by sharing the use of swings, by having to play by the rules of the game. Later, as they form into teams, they learn that self-sacrifice which is involved in the team game. They learn that the social unit is larger than the individual unit, that individual victory is not as sweet as the victory of the team, and that the most perfect self-realization is won by the most perfect sinking of one's self in the welfare of the larger unit — the team. Thus the child learns to control himself in these increasingly complex relationships. The control in a playground is the sort that obtains throughout well regulated society — the control by public opinion rather than control of either force or fear. The two great institutions that have to do with the training of the child — the home and the school — rest primarily upon the development of the qualities of obedience. The playground, alone affords to children the one great opportunity for cultivating those qualities that grow out of meeting others of like kind under conditions of freedom; it develops, progressively from babyhood on to adult life, that sense of human relationship which is basal to wholesome living. The development of the ethical social self must begin as soon as the child is old enough to have relations to other children of his own age, and it must continue as long as human life continues. And the people of the smaller communities need this training just as much as the city dweller. Democracy must provide not only a seat and instruction for every child in the school, but also play and good play traditions for every child in the playground. Without the development of these social instincts, without the growing of social conscience — which has its roots in the early activities of the playground — we cannot expect adults to possess those higher feelings which rest upon the earlier social virtues developed during childhood. The sandpile for the small children, the playground for the middle-sized child, the athletic field for the boy, folk dancing and social ceremonials for the boy and girl in their teens, wholesome means of social relationships during adult life — these are fundamental conditions without which democracy cannot continue, because upon them rest the development of that self-control which is related to an appreciation of the needs of the rest of the group and of the corporate conscience which is rendered necessary by the complex interdependence of modern life. Therefore, it is vastly important that everything be done to infuse new life and new enthusiasm into the country districts. Home, church, school, and community must unite intelligently to produce conditions that will make for contentment. At first thought it might seem that country children have plenty of play and that they do not particularly need playgrounds; as a matter of fact, however, they do not play much, and if they do not play much they do not play enough. A physician has said that no one is so much house surrounded as a country girl, that no one is so utterly unwilling to take exercise in the open air, that no one is so likely to scorn as food, milk, cream, and eggs. The repertoire of games of the country children is surprisingly small and inadequate; their games are strongly individualistic, training them for isolated efforts rather than for cooperation. In order to discuss intelligently the value of playgrounds in rural districts we must see the playground as a social institution and in its proper setting; we must realize the social needs to which organized and supervised play is to minister. To most people the play of children may seem to consist chiefly of certain childish activities whereby health and pleasure are promoted, but we must keep constantly in mind the fact that the importance of play in the country is not so much to promote health as to develop social instincts. The playground in the country as well as the city, if it is widely developed, will prove to be an uplifting social project — a force of extraordinary power and vitality. Wherever it is established it will make people love their homes more, it will brighten farm and village life, it will broaden minds, quicken sympathies, and develop patriotism. In other words, the playground movement will cooperate powerfully in producing communities "That are governed by justice, dignified by intelligence, and adorned by health and refinement."