EDITORIAL 593 is your side, or bowels, or chest, which has dull, heavy, or sharp, stinging pains which instantly bring your appendix, a cancer, your gall or your lungs, before your mind's eye, showing to your imagination either or all of them in the last stages of gangrene;  or it's your head which buzzes or throbs or shoots, suggesting blood pressure, hardening of the arteries, or paralysis, or worse still, mental collapse and brain disorders; and finally, there you lie awake, beside your peacefully snoring husband, hour after hour, breathing deep, counting sheep, saying over hymns, or fighting off depression and gloom, as the hours strike lagging on, leaving you to wake suddenly and shudderingly with the worst fear of all — the fear of a fear — and you ask yourself why you are such a coward and fool that you will allow yourself to suffer so needlessly and so unwisely. Wake up your husband and tell him about it? To hear his oft-reiterated charge to you to be "a reasonable human being and to stop worrying?" Not while you are a woman! For that's what we all are, and the good Lord made us as we are. Sensitive, so we should cuddle and pet our babies;  sympathetic, so that we might help men and each other to bear with the sins of the world;  imaginative, so that we could look into the overgrown boy's heart of the man sleeping beside us and realize that he is not cruel, only tired and wakened out of sound sleep. The Lord made us full of all fears so that we should set them up as barriers against evil, disease, and death, for our little ones, our husbands, and ourselves. This is how God fashioned us women. Well, then, when you wake next time with a sudden panic of heart-strangling fright, or lie sleepless through the night fighting the good fight of faith against fear, prayer against evil, just remember that there are myriads of women doing exactly the same thing, at the same time, all over the earth. Women have so suffered and feared since the gates of paradise were shut against" Eve. It is only the selfish, coldhearted women, trained by false environment, or by false modern religion, who would teach you to close your tender heart to fear or to sympathy. But when the fears become unbearable, rebuke tjiem in the name of Christ. All evil and darkness must depart when that holy name is named. Then remember the promises made to you by the priesthood, claim the fulfilment of those promises and cling to the iron rod, the word of God. President Grant often quotes the promise that the fruits of righteousness are peace, sanity, love, rest, and all faith. So, once more offer up a prayer, rebuke your fears in Christ's name, and turn over and go to sleep! Guide Lesson Suggestions Lesson I. TESTIMONY AND GENEALOGY. First Week in October. The Penalty for Neglect of Temple Work. That the mind of the prophet dwelt continuously, during his later years, on the subject of salvation for the dead, is proven again and again in his writings and in the history of the Church. The doctrine seems so simple, so comprehensive, that the Latter-day Saints seized upon it with eager delight and hungered for more light and still more light. The following extracts give the prophet's ideas in more detail and especially his emphatic declaration that unless the temple is built in Nauvoo, "we shall be rejected as a Church with our dead":- NEED OF TEMPLES. In an editorial from the "Times and Seasons," vol. 4, page 595, occurs the following: BAPTISM FOR THE DEAD. The great designs of God, in relation to the salvation of the human family, are very little understood by the professedly wise and intelligent generation in which we live. Various and conflicting are the opinions of men concerning the plan of salvation, the requisition of the Almighty, the necessary preparations for heaven, the state and condition of departed spirits, and the happiness or misery that is consequent upon the practice of righteousness and iniquity, according to their several notions of virtue and vice. The Mussulman condemns the heathen, the Jew, and the Christian, and the whole world of mankind rejects the Mussulmans. Koran regards others as infidels, and consigns the whole of them to perdition. The Jew believes that the whole world that rejects his faith and are not circumcised, are Gentile dogs, and will be damned. The heathen is equally as tenacious about his principles, and the Christian consigns all to perdition who cannot bow to his creed, and submit to his "ipse dixit." From "History of the Church," vol. 4, period one, page 595. Fora chapter 35. The doctrine of baptism for the dead. At the general conference of the Church, held at Nauvoo. October 3, 1841, the prophet said: One dies and is buried, having never heard the gospel of reconciliation;  to the other the message of salvation has been sent, he has heard and embraced it, and is made the heir of eternal life. Shall the one become the partaker of glory and the other be consigned to hopeless perdition? Is there no chance for his escape? Sectarianism answers GUIDE LESSONS 595 "none." Such an idea is worse than atheism. The truth shall break down and dash in pieces all such bigoted Pharisaism;  the sects shall be sifted, the honest in heart brought out, and their priests left in the midst of their corruption. This doctrine presents in a clear light the wisdom and mercy of God in preparing an ordinance for the salvation of the dead, being baptized by proxy, their names recorded in heaven, and they judged according to the deeds done in the body. This doctrine was the burden of the scriptures. Those saints who neglect it in behalf of their deceased relatives, do it at the peril of their own salvation. The dispensation of the fulness of times will bring to light the things that have been revealed in all former dispensations;  also other things that have not been before revealed. He shall send Elihah, the Prophet, etc., and restore all things in Christ. President Smith then announced: "There shall be no more baptisms for the dead, until the ordinance can be attended to in the Lord's House;  and the Church shall not hold another general conference, until they can meet in said house. For thus saith the Lord!" In regard to the practical working of this principle we find the prophet announced at the general conference for April, 1844: As soon as the temple and baptismal font are prepared, we calculate to give the Elders of Israel their washings and anointings, and attend to those last and more impressive ordinances, without which we cannot obtain celestial thrones. But there must be a holy place prepared for that purpose. There was a proclamation made during the time that the foundation of the temple was laid to that effect, so that men may receive their endowments and be made kings and priests unto the Most High God, having nothing to do with temporal things, but their whole time will be taken up with things pertaining to the house of God. There must, however, be a place built expressly for that purpose, and for men to be baptized for their dead. It must be built in this, the central place;  for every man who wishes to save his father, mother, brothers, sisters, and friends, must go through himself, from baptism to ordination, washings and anointings, and receive all the keys and powers of the Priesthood, the same as for himself. The Lord has an established law in relation to the matter: there must be a particular spot prepared for the salvation of our dead. Men who want to save their dead can come and bring their families, do their work by being baptized and attending to the other ordinances for their dead, and then may go back again to live and wait till they go to receive their reward. In an address delivered in Nauvoo by the prophet occurs the following: My text is on the resurrection of the dead, which you will find in the 14th chapter of John — "In my Father's house are many mansions." It should be — "In my Father's kingdom are many kingdoms," in order that ye may be heirs of God and joint-heirs with Christ. I do not believe the Methodist doctrine of sending honest men and noble-minded men to hell, along with the murderer and the adulterer. I have an order of things to save the poor fellows at any rate, or to 
 get them saved;  for I will send men to preach to them in prison and save them if I can. There are mansions for those who obey a celestial law, and there are other mansions for those who come short of the law, every man in his own order. There is baptism, etc., for those to exercise who are alive, and baptism for the dead who die without the knowledge of the gospel. I am going on in my progress for eternal life. It is not only necessary that you should be baptized for your dead, but you will have to go into temples to save yourselves. There will be 144,000 saviors on Mount Zion, and with them an innumerable host that no man can number. Oh! I beseech you to go forward, go forward and maKe your calling and your election sure;  and if any man preach any other gospel than that which I have preached, he shall be cursed;  and some of you who now hear me shall see it, and know that I testify the truth concerning them. In regard to the law of the Priesthood, there should be a place where all nations shall come up from time to time to receive their endowment;  and the Lord has said this shall be the place for the baptisms for the dead. Every man that has been baptized and belongs to the kingdom has a right to be baptized for those who have gone before;  and as soon as the law of the gospel is obeyed here by their friends who act as proxy for them, the Lord has administrators there to set them free. A man may act as proxy for his o.wn relatives;  the ordinances of the gospel which were laid out before the foundations of the world have thus been fulfilled by them, and we may be baptized for those whom we have much friendship for;  but it must first be revealed to the man of God, lest we should run too far. "As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive; " all shall be raised from the dead. The Lamb of God hath brought to pass the resurrection, so that all shall rise from the dead. God Almighty himself dwells in eternal fire, flesh and blood cannot go there, for all corruption is devoured by the fire. "Our God is a consuming fire." When our flesh is quickened by the spirit, there will be no blood in this tabernacle. Some dwell in higher glory than others. From "History of the Church," vol. 6, period one, page 363. — From President 16. Joseph Smith's address, "Resurrection of the Dead," chanter Again he says: Minutes of the General Conference of the Church Held at Nauvoo. The angel that appeared to John on the Isle of Patmos was a translated or resurrected body (i.e. personage), Jesus Christ went in body after his resurrection, "to minister to resurrected bodies." There has been a chain of authority and power from Adam down to the present time. The best way to obtain truth and wisdom is not to ask it from books, but to go to God in prayer, and obtain divine teaching. It is no more incredible that God should save the dead, than that he should raise the dead. The Announcement That the Whole Land of America Is Zion. In an address by Hyrum Smith, the patriarch, in April, 1844, we read: I never knew a proclamation to be understood at once. President GUIDE LESSONS 597 Brigham Young wished to draw the attention of the brethren, first to build the temple and get your washings, anointings, and endowments;  after that to build up branches throughout the nations. We must do all we can to build up the temple, and after that to build churches. The gathering will continue here until the temple is so far finished that the elders can get their endowments;  and after that the gathering will be from the nations to North and South America, which is the land of Zion. North and South America are the symbols of the wings. The gathering from the old countries will always be to headquarters. After the martyrdom of the prophet and patriarch, the Council of the Twelve rightfully took charge of the spiritual and temporal affairs of the Church. An epistle was issued, after matters were regulated somewhat in Nauvoo, and the following extract shows the continued activity of the Church along temple lines. It is interesting to know that the various apostate "Mormon" churches have done nothing towards temple work or temple building. The Latter-day Saints are the only temple building people in the world today. In an epistle of the Twelve Apostle to the Saints of the last days, we find: The building of the temple of the Lord in the city of Nauvoo, is occupying the first place in the exertions and prayers of many of the Saints at the present time, knowing, as they do, that if this building is not completed speedily, "we shall be rejected as a church with our dead; " for the Lord our God hath spoken it. QUESTIONS. 1. What you you think of a plan of salvation which should exclude nine-tenths of the children of men? 2. What does vicarious salvation mean? 3. Why might the Saints be rejected with their dead? 4. What is a baptismal font? 5. How many saviors will there be on Mount Zion? 6. What are you doing to become one of those saviors? 7. How shall be best obtain knowledge? 8. Who was the Patriarch Hyrum Smith? 9. Where is Zion? LESSON L TESTIMONY AND GENEALOGY. First Week in November. Temple Work, Now and in the Millenium. The mind is often drawn out in wonder as to the need of temples and what power and gifts we shall receive there and 
 when. We like to discover also, the beginning of this work, as taught by the prophet, and further elucidated by his successor, Brigham Young. The Prophet Joseph administered the ordinances of the endowment a year before his martyrdom to Brigham Young, as will be seen from the following extracts, taken from the history of Brigham Young: May 26, 1843— Met with the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Patriarch Hyrum, Elders Kimball and Richards, receiving our endowments and instructions in the priesthood. The Prophet Joseph administered to us the first ordinances of the endowment, and gave us instructions on the priesthood and the new and everlasting covenant. May 28 (Sunday)— I met with Bros. Joseph, Hyrum, Heber, Willard, Bishop Whitney, and Judge Adams, when we administered to Brother Joseph the same ordinances of endowment and of the holy Priesthood which he had administered unto us. May 29 — Met at 9 a. m. with the same brethren when Joseph instructed us further in the principles pertaining to the holy Priesthood. December 3, 1843 — Met in assembly room with Joseph, Hyrum and the Twelve, when the ordinances were administered to Elders Orson Hyde, Parley P. Pratt, W. Woodruff, George A. Smith, and Orson Spencer. We received instructions on the priesthood from Joseph. December 9 — W. W. Phelps, Levi Richards, and C. P. Lott received endowments. December 17 — Samuel H. Smith received endowments. December 23 — Isaac Morley and wife received endowments. Brigham Young said in a sermon, preached in 1856: We were driven from Missouri after Joseph went up there, and we came to Nauvoo, and the Twelve went to England. While we were in England, I think, the Lord manifested to me by visions and his spirit, things concerning them, until I returned to Nauvoo. Joseph had never mentioned this, there had never been a thought of it in the Church that I knew anything about it at that time. But I had this for myself, and I kept it to myself, and when I returned home and Joseph revealed these things to me, I then understood the reflections that were upon my mind while in England. But this was not until after I had told him what I understood. I saw that he was after something by his conversation, leading my mind along, and others, to see how we could bear this. This was in 1841;  the revelation was given in 1843, but the doctrine was revealed before this;  and when I told Joseph what I understood, which was right in front of my house in the street, as he was shaking hands and leaving me, he turned round and looked me in the eyes and said he: "Brother Brigham, are you speaking what you understand, — are you in earnest?" Said I: "I speak just as the spirit manifests to GUIDE LESSONS 599 me." turned he Said and he: went "God off. bless you, the Lord has opened your mind," and About this time came the revelation concerning the baptism for the dead. I know that in my traveling and preaching, many a time, I have stopped by beautiful streams of clear, pure water, and have said to myself, "How delightful it would be to me to go into this, to be baptized for the remission of sins for my forefathers." When I got home Joseph told me it was my privilege. He told me that we could be baptized for our dear friends, but at first it was not revealed that a record should be kept of those who were baptized;  but when he received an additional revelation to that effect, then a record was kept. Many, I suppose, were baptized before any record was kept at all, and they were baptized over, and a record kept of the baptisms and the names of the administrator, those who acted for the dead, and of the dead, and of the witnesses. You can read in the "Book of Doctrine and Covenants," the letter that Joseph wrote when he was away from home in regard to having witnesses at these baptisms. I relate this to show you that the Lord did not reveal everything at once;  but I need not dwell on this any longer. On Sunday, May 1, 1842, the Prophet Joseph writes: I preached in the grove, on the keys of the kingdom, charity, etc. The keys are certain signs and words by which false spirits and personages may be detected from true, which cannot be revealed to the elders till the temple is completed. The rich can only get them in the temple, the poor may get them on the mountain top as did Moses. The rich cannot be saved without charity, given to feed the poor when and how God requires it of them, as well as building temples. There are signs in heaven, earth and hell;  the elders must know them all, to be endowed with power, to finish their work and prevent imposition. The devil knows many signs, but does not know the sign of the Son of Man, or Jesus. That temple work will occupy all of our time in the Millennium is indicated in the following extract: At the general conference in Great Salt Lake City, April 8, 1853, President Young said: We have at least one thousand years, counting three hundred and sixty-five days, five hours, forty-eight minutes, and fifty-seven seconds to the year, if I recollect right, wherein the elders of Israel will enter holy temples of the Lord, and officiate for just such persons as you and me, that have done the work we were called to do in our day, whether it was much or little. There will be hundreds of thousands of the sons of Jacob to administer in these temples for you and me. Joseph, Hyrum, Father Smith, and many others will be there to dictate and preside. Joseph will stand at the head of this dispensation and hold the keys of it, for they are not taken from him, they never were in time, they never will be in eternity. I shall be there, if I live, or if I die. If I die, my brethren or my children will officiate for me;  I shall lose nothing through death. Magnify your calling in this Church;  and I will warrant you an exaltation just as good and as great as you can ask for. President Young said April 8, 1852: Now, do you want me to explain this a little? Suppose I happen to drop off from this state of mortal existence, and leave a great many things undone that I wanted to do. For instance, I am not sealed to my father, and this is necessary, as I was born before the 
 new and everlasting covenant was restored;  consequently, not being an heir, I have to receive my inheritance in my father's kingdom by adoption — by the sealing law. The keys of the sealing power spoken of were to be committed to Elijah for the last days;  these are things spoken of. I must be sealed to my father, and thus make a chain of priesthood to connect the links together. Suppose I should drop off before this is done, what a pity it would be for Brother Brigham to go into eternity and not have his work done. Let me be faithful unto the end, and my works will follow me. If I had not a son in the world disposed to do my work for me, by and by, my daughters would have sons and grandsons;  and suppose they would not act for me, I have friends on the earth, for God would raise them up for me, to do my work. That is not all: by and by the Lord will say to the sleeping dust, awake, and come forth out of your graves. I am on hand, the Lord wakes me up, or sends somebody to do it that possesses the keys of the resurrection. My dust is waked up, my spirit is reunited to it, and it is made a celestial body, filled with immortality and eternal life. Behold, the first that my children or my friends know of it, I will be with them in some of these temples, and tell them what to do. It may be of interest in this connection to record that President Young took the endowment for his father, the first day that work was done in the St. George temple. And that was the first day that endowments for the dead were ever given on this earth, so far as is known. Baptisms and seaHngs for the dead were performed in the Nauvoo temple and in the Endowment House. But no endowments were given in either of the houses for the dead. The following extract from a recent letter written by David H. Cannon, the president of the St. George temple, is timely: "I quote to you from my dairy, 11th January, 1877: "Remarks by President Young;  'This endowment was revealed to us in the brick store in Nauvoo by the Prophet Joseph Smith. * * * Today is the first time that an endowment has been given to the dead, of which we have any knowledge. It is possible that something may have been done in the days of Enoch of which we have no account.' This is what I wrote at the time in my own language, and not just in the words used by the president." At the general conference of the Church, held at Nauvoo, President Joseph Smith, by request of the twelve apostles, gave instructions on the doctrine of baptism for the dead. "The proclamation of the first principles of the gospel was a means of salvation to men individually;  and it was the truth, not men, that saved them;  but men, by actively engaging in rites of salvation substitutionally become instrumental in bringing multitudes of their kindred into the kingdom of God." ;  GUIDE LESSONS 
 1. Why is it necessary to record the work done in temples? 2. Who will stand at the head of this dispensation? 3. How can the chain of the priesthood be fastened back to Adam? 4. What is the law of adoption, or the sealing law? 5. What have you done about giving endowments for your kindred dead who may have been baptized for and sealed in the old Endowment House? LESSON II. (For October and November.) WORK AND BUSINESS. LESSON . "BOOK OF MORMON"— BIBLE TESTIMONY. (Third Week in October.) Subject: Ephraim in America. Text: Ezekiel 37:15-22;  Hosea 9:11-12, 7:8;  5:15;  Jeremiah 31:9. Aim or Central Truth: Error has delayed truth but never overcome it. This lesson will conclude the Bible testimony concerning the "Book of Mormon." but will by no means, exhaust the same. Time and space compel us to be briefer than we like to be in order that the remaining lessons, of which there are only two, shall deal with archaeological testimony. Proposition eight states that Ezekiel is in perfect agreement with Isaiah when he foretells the bringing to light of the "Stick of Joseph" in the hands of Ephraim, and the time when it should come forth, and the nature of the great event, the gathering of Israel, which should commence with the appearance of the "Book." Since the restoration of the gospel with its principles and its keys, these two factors, like the pistons on a locomotive, have been, and still are, working for the unfolding of God's purposes, and the facts are so apparent and conclusive that we meet the most important objections offered by the enemies of the "Book of Mormon," namely: That staff, rod and stick are used synonymously and interchangeably (1) in the Bible and be accepted as meaning, power. (2) That the "Book of Mormon" does not claim that any of Ephraim came to America. The unwary might be deceived with this objection, were 
 it not for the fact that the "Stick of Ephraim," should record certain writings. The writings (history) upon this stick should be for Joseph and for all the house of Israel his companions. Ezekiel 37:15-22. It may be insisted that we read of the rod of Aaron, the scepter of Judah, and the shepherd staff, etc., but they are in no instance used in the sense of a stick as set out by Ezekiel. These terms are not used interchangeably, for they are all symbolic of power and not of history. Our opponents are far afield when they seek to urge this objection against the "Book" when they, themselves, cannot reconcile it with the facts set forth by Ezekiel. Considering objection number two: It is true the "Book" makes no direct mention of Ephraim, and for a very good reason, as we shall soon see. It is just as true that the "Book" does not state that any of Ephraim was not represented, in either of the colonies of Lehi or of Mulek that came subsequently to America. Neither does the book state that all who came with Lehi were of the tribe of Manasseh. According to the book, Lehi was a Manassehite, but the lineage of the families of Ishmael and Zoram who came with him is not given by the book. Might they not have been of the tribe of Ephraim? Further, when Mulek left Jerusalem for America, according to the book, he brought "a company" with him, but the lineage of the company is not given. Might not Ephraim have been largely represented in this company? Had the book traced Ephraim by lineage to America, it would have laid itself open to serious and disastrous criticism, and herein, in the writer's opinion, is one of the strongest evidences of the divine authenticity of the book. According to ancient prophecy, and because of his sins and abnominations, Ephraim should be scattered among his brethren. "As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird, from the birth, and from the womb, and from the conception. Though they bring up their children, yet will I bereave them, that there shall not be a man left, yea, woe also to them when I depart from them." Hosea 9:11-12. This does not mean annihilation, for Ephraim has a very important work to do in the last days when the "Stick of Joseph" is to be in his hands, and the Lord shall gather Israel from among all nations of the earth and the islands of the sea. It does mean, however, that his glory as a nation shall be lost. They were to be taken as from early birth and separated one from another, and thus destroyed as a nation. Hosea 7:8 tells us, "Ephraim, he hath mixed himself among the people;  Ephraim is a cake not turned " Again, "For I will be unto Ephraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the house of Judah;  I, even I, will rear and go away;  GUIDE LESSONS 603 I will take away and none shall rescue him." Hosea 5:14 Here the thought is that Ephraim is to be torn to pieces, scattered. The big thought that comes out of all these prophecies concerning Ephraim is that he had lost his identity as a nation, mixed among the people, and, hence, unable these many centuries to trace his lineage. But in the last days Ephraim is to come out from the people, establish his identity, and assume his responsibilities, as Jeremiah sets forth, "They shall come with weeping, and with supplications will I lead them. I will cause them to walk by the rivers of waters in a straight way, wherein they shall not stumble. For, I am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my first born." Jer. 31:9. In the last days, Ephraim is to be first in the work. He never has been before. He has been patiently awaiting his opportunity to assume the functions of the first born in that day where he is brought to light through the instrumentality of a prophet standing up with the Urim and Thummim as was the case in the time of Nehemiah. LESSON . "BOOK OF MORMONARCHAEOLOGICAL TESTIMONY. (Third Week in November.) Subject: Portions of the book opposed to scientific deductions at the time of its coming forth. Text: Robertson's History of America, vol. II, pages 28-30;  edition, 1790;  vol. II, edition, 1776;  Ibid, Note 58, to page 298;  vol. II, edition, 1790;  Ibid, vo. II, pages 31, 35 and 36, edition of 1817, and vol. II, pages 31 and 32, edition, 1796;  The American Universal Geography, page 75, edition, 1793. Aim: Living up to the light we possess often leads to wrong conclusions unless we take God into the reckoning. When the "Book of Mormon" was first published, in 1829-30, little was known as to this continent's past in any particular. The Indians were here, and in different states of development, from crudest savagery to semi-civilization;  but as to who they were, or how they came, science and history were alike, non-committal and unenlightening. What is the origin of America's red man? a curious world had asked. Until the "Book of Mormon" came forth with its definite and positive statements, announcing without equivocation, the 
 relation of the Indian to the past: that from a high plane of civilization he had retrograded to a state of savagery. None could be found who would venture more than an opinion as to the past of the red man and his country. It is true that early writers had expressed opinions and set up sundry claims concerning the subject, probably the earliest dating back as far as 1607, when Gregoria Garcia, a missionary in South America, published a work in Spanish favoring a Tartar and Chinese origin. Others followed, but space will not permit of even mentioning their publications and the dates of issuance. It is not our purpose, however, to dispose of these earlier publications summarily. Dr. William Robertson, D.D., principal of the University of Edinburgh, and a member of the Royal Academy of Madrid, as far back as the year 1790, published a work entitled, "The History of America." In this work the learned doctor has canvassed and analyzed the most plausible opinions and conjectures of those from Garcia, 1607, to his own time. Answering his own question set out in his history, "How was America peopled?" he says: "There is hardly any nation from the north to the south pole, to which some antiquary, in the extravagance of conjecture, has not ascribed the honor of peopling America. The Jews, the Canaanites, the Phoenicians, the Carthaginians, the Greeks, the Scythians in ancient times, are supposed to have settled in this western world. The Chinese, the Swedes, the Norwegian, the Welsh, and the Spaniard, are said to have sent colonies thither in later ages, at different periods, and on various occasions. * * * * -Ye may lay it down as a certain principle in this inquiry, that America was not peopled by any nation of the ancient continent, which had made considerable progress in civilization. The inhabitants of the new world were in a state of society so extremely rude, as to be unacquainted with those arts which are the first essays of human ingenuity in its advance towards improvement. Even the most cultivated nations in America were strangers to many of those simple inventions which were almost coeval with society in other parts of the world, and were known in the earliest periods of civil life with which we have any acquaintance. From this it is manifest, that the tribes which originally emigrated to America, came off from nations which must have been no less barbarous than their posterity, at the time when they were first discovered by the Europeans. For, although the elegant and refined arts may decline or perish, amid the violent shocks of those revolutions and disasters to which nations are exposed, the necessary arts of life, when once they have been introduced among any people, are never GUIDE LESSONS 606 lost. None of the vicissitudes in human affairs affect these. and they continue to be practiced as long as the race of men exists. If ever the use of iron had been known to the savages of America, or to their progenitors;  if ever they had employed a plow, a loom, a forge, the utility of those inventions would have preserved them, and it is impossible that they should have been abandoned or forgotten. "We may conclude, then, that the Americans sprung from some people, who were themselves in such an early and unimproved stage of society, as to be unacquainted with all those necessary arts, which continued to be unknown among their posterity, when first visited by the Spaniards." (Robertson's History of America, vol. II, pages 28-30, and the same information is found in a later edition of 1796.) Further, the same author says: "The houses of the people were mere huts of turf or mud, or the branches of trees, like those of the rudest Indian. There is not in all the extent of that vast empire a single monument, or vestige of any building more ancient than the conquest." (Ibid, Note 58 to page 298.) Again: "In all America, however, there is not one animal, tame or wild, which properly belongs to the warm or even the more temperate countries of the ancient continent. The camel, the dromedary, the horse, the cow, were as much unknown in America, as the elephant or the lion. From which it is obvious, that the people who first settled in the western world, did not issue from the countries where those animals abound, and where men, from having been long accustomed to their aid. would naturally consider it, not only as beneficial, but as indispensably necessary to the improvement, and even the preservation of civil society." (Ibid, pages 31, 35, 36, edition of 1817, and included again in an earlier edition, on pages 31 and 32 of 1796.) Here, then, we have the verdict of science with reference to the question under discussion, just preceding the publication of the "Book of Mormon." At that date it was probably the foremost scientific conclusion, and accepted as such almost universally. Certain it is that it was accepted and taught in the schools of this country as is evident from the following, taken from "The American Universal Geography, or a View of all the Empires, Kingdoms, States, and Republics in the Known World, and of the United States of America in Particular," printed at Boston, Massachusetts, 1793, by Jedediah Morse, A.M., page 75, and answering the question, "But who were they?" (meaning the Indians). This work disposes of the question in the following simple manner: "To 
 recite all the opinions given in answer to this question, and the reasons to support them, would fill a volume. Doctor Robertson, and the Abbe Clavijero have extensively and learnedly investigated the subject. I can not expect to afford the reader more satisfaction than to give him the results of their inquiries. Doctor Robertson having recapitulated and canvassed the most plausible opinions on the subject comes to the following conclusion." (And the author proceeds to give these conclusions as hereinbefore expressed.) Science, according to Herbert Spencer, is simply a higher development of common knowledge. It will be the purpose of our next lesson to show how far afield Doctor Robertson wandered in expressing scientifically his deductions concerning the American Indian in relation to his progenitors, to prehistoric America, and the civilizations with their arts and sciences which flourished at different periods on this continent. In a word, it will be shown how utterly unscientific and untenable are his positions when thrown against the truth as revealed in the pages of the divine record. The foregoing, then, was the teaching of Joseph Smith's boyhood days. Such was the attitude of the public mind toward prehistoric America. Out of this teaching and attitude would naturally come the inspiration for the writing of an entirely different book than the "Book of Mormon" proved to be. This would be true whether Joseph Smith, in and of himself, or any other man, or set of men, had attempted to write a book dealing with prehistoric America. All would have been influenced more or less by the teachings of their day. It is not at all probable, or possible, that any dreamer or speculative genius, could, by conjecture, have so imagined or written anything that might have formed a basis for the production of the "Book of Mormon." But what are the facts in the case? We shall find them to be contradictory and diametrically opposed, as set forth in the book, to all the positions established by scientific research up to the time of, and for years after, the coming forth of the book. We shall find, among other things, that the book clearly sets forth: First, three civilizations have existed, flourished and decayed, upon parts of the continent, and one on nearly every part. Second, that the civilization, in so far as the occupancy of the country is concerned, in each instance was from the south to the north. Third, that the order of the last civilization, unlike any other known country, was reversed. That it did not proceed GUIDE LESSONS 607 in the natural order from the lower to the higher, from the savage to the civilized;  but on the contrary, the order was,, strange and significant to say the least, from the higher to the lower, from the civilized to the savage. Fourth, that each of these civilizations possessed the arts and sciences to a remarkable degree. Fifth, that there was early brought to this continent by the first people the common and domestic animals. Sixth, that these people, as well as those who came at a later date, built many large and wonderful cities. Seventh, that the last great civilization was of Israelitish extraction. (Note:— The members of the society will do well to search the book with a view of ascertaining its positions as pointed out by the seven foregoing statements.) LESSON . LITERATURE. (October Lesson.) (Optional) (Some of Tennyson's Minor Poems.) Some of Tennyson's poems might almost be styled wisdom literature;  at all events they deal with the deep problems of life and death. "Tithonus," a poem with a Greek name, presents one of life's problems. We have, in this ancient gentleman, one who is destined to live the mortal life, forever, because, forsooth, favored of the gods, he had asked for immortality. Then he sees all things about him die in season and refresh themselves again, while he alone wanders a "whitehaired shadow roaming like a dream." He watches the spring come forth in all its loveliness and freshness, and in the agony of his soul cries out, "The woods decay, the woods decay and fall, The vapors weep their burden to the ground, Man comes and tills the earth and lies beneath. And after many a summer dies the swan. Me only cruel immortality consumes;  I wither slowly in thine arms, Here at the quiet limit of the world." 
 In this same anguish, Tithonus cries to the gods, to take back their gift, moaning: "Why should a man desire in any way To vary from the kindly race of men. Or pass beyond the goal of ordinance, Where all should praise as is most meet for all?" Sometimes we hear people express themselves in a fashion that would lead us to believe that they are just a little like Tithonus. They are like him in that they wish they might live forever, or that their loved ones might live forever. Tennyson, in using this old Greek legend, would have us understand that no matter how natural and innate the longing for immortality may be, it must come in the manner in which God has provided, and not in a way man might suggest, for death as well as life is of God's order. The "Ancient Sage" is another poem full of profound thought. The very name suggests wisdom. In the "Ancient Sage" we have the picture of one who has sounded the depths of knowledge and knows that wisdom lies beyond, and who having done so, instructs others thus: Thou canst not prove the nameless, O my son. Nor canst thou prove the world thou movest in, • Thou canst not prove that: thou art body alone. Nor canst thou prove that thou art spirit alone, Nor canst thou prove that thou art both in one. Thou canst not prove thou art immortal — no, Nor yet that thou art mortal — nay, my son. Thou canst not prove that I, who speak with thee, Am not thyself in converse with thyself. For nothing worthy proving can be proven, Nor yet disproven, wherefore thou be wise, Cleave ever to the sunnier side of doubt. And cling to faith beyond the forms of faith! She reels not in the storm of warring words, . She brightens at the clash of "yes" and "no," She sees the best that glimmers through the worst, She feels the sun is hid but for a night, She spies the summer through the winter bud, She tastes the fruit before the blossom falls, She hears the lark within the songless egg, She finds the fountain where they wailed mirage! GUIDE LESSONS 809 Many of the most vital truths of existence are not capable of the kind of proof that scholars choose to call scientific;  this, no doubt, is one of the reasons why it is impossible to please God without faith. In "Lady Clara Vere de Vere," we find a stanza reading: Trust me. Clara Vere de Vere, From yon blue heavens above us bent, The Gardner Adam and his wife Smile at the claims of long descent, However it be, it seems to me, *Tis only noble to be good. "Kind hearts are more than coronets, and simple faith than Norman blood." The British people accepted this as a statement of Tenny had marred son's democratic outlook on even the statement, life, when nor did they raised he was feel that he to the peerage. Another quotation from Tennyson, occurring in Locksley Hall, has received marked attention from orators and writers in the decade that has just past. It reads, "I. the heir of all the ages in the foremost files of time." Here the poet gratefully acknowledges the debt of humanity to a past, rich in religion, philosophy, science, art, and music. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. L Read "Tithonus" through with care, and determine what great lesson it teaches. 2. Do you fancy that living forever in the mortal state could bring happiness to anyone? Give your reasons for the stand you take. 3. John the Revelator and the three Nephites are permitted to remain upon the earth until Christ's second coming. In order to do this, did they undergo any change? 4. What characteristic of the Swan's life leads the poet to say, "And after many a summer dies the swan?" 5. Give evidence of the truth of the statement, "That nothing worthy proving can be proved." 6. How does this support the stand taken by the Latter day Saints that though they may be unable to prove to another that Jesus is the Christ, yet they may know positively that he is the Christ? 
 7. What do you think Tennyson meant when he styled us heirs of all the ages? 8. Name some religious leaders of the past to whom we are indebted. 9. Name some musicians of the past whose music still enriches our lives. Some poets. Some artists. 10. Quote lines from Tennyson that indicate his democratic attitude towards life. LITERATURE (Optional.) November Lesson. TENNYSON AND THE LIFE BEYOND. No poet has put into more delicate and ethereal verse the great eternal questions of life, here and hereafter, than has Tennyson. Two of his very early poems, published in 1830, but later omitted from his English editions — yet used always in the American editions — breathe heart-shaking doubts which assail all creative minds sooner or later. In his later years, his acceptance and adherence to the established state religion, and the court etiquette of orthodoxy, required of him as poet-laureate, no doubt caused him to withdraw poems of religious dubiety as a matter of taste and court decorum. At any rate the two poems, "The How and the Why" and "Supposed Confessions," are worth the undivided attention of students and parents now and always, for they voice the spiritual stumbling of youth in every age. Especially should the Latter-day Saints consider them and be prepared, not only to admire and enjoy their exquisite beauty of line, form and imagery, but also to answer to themselves the spiritual  problems therein presented. The whole poem first mentioned is here given, lest some of our students Jack a reference book: THE HOW AND THE WHY. I am any man's suitor. If any will be my tutor;  Some think it speedeth fast. In time there is no present. In eternity no future. In eternity no past. We laugh, we cry, we are born, we die, Who will riddle me the how and the why? GUIDE LESSONS 611 The bulrush nods unto its brother, The wheat-ears whisper to each other: What is it they say? What do they there? Why two and two make four? Why round is not square:' Why the rock stands still, and the High clouds fly? Why the heavy oak groans, and the white willows sigh? Why deep is not high, and high is not deep? Whether we wake or whether we sleep? Whether we sleep, or whether we die? How you are you? Why I am I? Who will riddle me the how and the why? The world is somewhat;  it goes on somehow: But what is the meaning of then and now? I feel there is something;  but how and what? I know there is somewhat, but what and why? I cannot tell if that somewhat be I. The In the little bird pipeth summer woods — when "why?thewhy?" sun falls low. And the great bird sits on the opposite bough And stares in his face and shouts, "how? how?" And the black owl scuds down the mellow twilight. And chants "how? how?" the whole of the night. Why the life goes out when the blood is spilt? What the life is? where the soul may lie? Why a church is with a steeple built: And a house with a chimney-pot? Who will riddle me the how and the what? Who will riddle me the what and the why? In the "Supposed Confessions of a Second-rate Sensitive Mind Not In Unity With Itself," the poet indicates in his very title (thus modified in his later years) the immaturity and lack of spiritual poise which produces the exact mental condition he so vividly portrays. It is a direct challenge of the Atonement as viewed by human standards and mortal manifestations. Read it aloud again and again and then answer, not in scriptural quotations alone, but from the deeps of your own soul-experiences the questions therein propounded. QUESTIONS. Why should Tennyson suppress the two poems referred to in these lessons? What is the established or state church of Great Britain? 
 Why should Later-day Saints be particularly interested in these two poems? What do the sectarian churches teach concerning preexistence? What do we? What is the sectarian idea of life after death? What is ours? What do we mean by poise? What did the poet mean to convey in the words, "a mind not in unity with itself?" LESSON IV. SOCIAL SERVICE. (Required) Fourth Week in October. HEALTH (Home Sanitation.) "Conservation of human life is to be accomplished in a large part Marion Talbot through the practice of sanitary measures." — Sanitation means avoidance of dirt and filth of all kinds, (a) because of its devitalizing effect on the human organism;  (b) because bacteria is harmful to health and may lurk in dirt and filth. General Cleanliness, (a) Outside: The casual outsider judges the mental, moral, and social status of a family by the external appearance of the home;  to the initiated, something of the general health of a family is also revealed. The desirable country home is located on land well drained, either naturally or artificially, to guard against mud, which is carried on the feet into the house, dried, ground to dust which floats in the air, is inhaled, lacerating the delicate lung tissue, making it susceptible to the action of germs, causing pneumonia and tuberculosis;  (b) seepage from outdoor toilets, corrals, etc., into wells and cellars. The stables and other outbuildings are placed far enough from the house to keep away flies, which breed in stable manure. Wastes from the kitchen will be (a) fed to animals as soon as practicable, not allowed to stand about in pails or barrels until they sour and decay;  (b) burned;  or GUIDE LESSONS 618 (c) dumped on the land far away from the house. Tubs or barrels of water will not be allowed to stand about uncovered, because they, as well as ponds and pools, serve as breeding places for mosquitoes. It is now a well known fact that malaria is contracted through the bite of a certain species of mosquito. When there are outdoor toilets, they will be of the type discussed in the "Farmers' Bulletin" on "The Sanitary Privy." There are, however, a number of indoor toilets on the market, suitable for farm homes, guaranteed to give perfect satisfaction and priced reasonably low. The problem of the city home is simpler, since the city usually attends to (a) disposing of garbage, and other wastes;  (b) keeping streets clean;  (c) providing water supply; (d) draining lands. It is the duty of every family to lighten the city's burden as far as possible by meeting every requirement of its sanitary code;  e. g.. providing covered garbage cans;  keeping streets, alleys, and private premises free from refuse of all kinds. Even in cities where provision is made for garbage disposal, one occasionally finds a housewife who throws waste food into the back yard, leaving it as to to there her rot own and attract flies to her neighbor's door, as well (b) Inside: There is nothing like plenty of soap and water and sunshine and light for keeping the house sanitary. The floors are, of course, the first consideration, because all kinds of filth is unwittingly carried in on the shoes. Since rigid laws against spitting on streets and in public places have been so widely enacted, the danger to health from that source has been greatly diminished, but there is still a need for carefully wiping the shoes before entering the house, and for keeping the floors clean, especially in the rooms where food is prepared and served. Cupboards and closets must be overhauled and cleaned often;  accumulations of dirt in such places may not cause disease directly, but may weaken the family's resistance to disease. The refrigerator must be washed thoroughly every two or three days, and the drain pipes cleaned out as often as once a wxek. The kitchen, instead of being a dump, as formerly, for everything not wanted elsewhere, in the house, should be administered with the same standards of cleanliness and order that prevail in a high class biological laboratory. 
 Care of Food: Food should be protected from (a) dirty utensils. In a large majority of homes, dishwashing is the least sanitary of all household activities. When the question of inefficient household help is being discussed, one often hears the remark, "Well, anyway, she can wash dishes," but people of discriminating taste know that delicate food flavors are destroyed when foods are cooked in unclean utensils, or served on carelessly washed dishes. Bacteria may lurk in seams and cracks of such utensils and dishes. Plenty of hot water and soap are essential for the dishwashing process, with clean, hot water for rinsing, and plenty of "clean" towels to dry the dishes "immediately" after rinsing. If cloths and towels are to be used more than once they must be washed, rinsed, and dried after each use. (b) Unclean or carelessly washed hands;  diseases are sometimes transmitted by means of food handled by (1) diseased persons;  (2) those caring for the sick;  and (3) carriers of disease. Persons carrying the germs of a disease, (though they may not have a typical or recognizable form of the disease), (c) Dust;  besides the objection to dust as such, it may contain spores (seeds) of various molds, which cause food to "spore." (d) Flies;  they breed in filth and carry it with them on the hairs of the body and brush-like appendages of the feet. "Typhoid fly" is a title aptly bestowed upon the house fly because of its agency in spreading that disease. Statistics show that typhoid is more prevalent in the country and small towns than in cities. This is attributed to the fact that so little effort is made in the former to keep down flies. Manure and other refuse should not be allowed to accumulate, houses should be screened, and children taught to fear and loathe fly, and to wage relentless war upon it. (e) Mice;  they come into the house from all sorts of unclean places, carrying filth on their feet and in their fur, doubtless at times harmful bacteria as well. They should be hunted mercilessly, and the holes by which they enter stopped up and covered with tin. Ventilation: It is now known that the factors which determine the fitness of air for breathing are (a) temperature;  (b) moisture content;  and (c) movement of air;  instead of the carbon dioxide index as formerly supposed. The approved temperature is 68 degrees to 70 degrees F., for living rooms, with lower temperatures for sleeping rooms. Unless the heating GUIDE LESSONS 615 plant makes adequate provision for moisture in the air, the housewife should see that there is always in the living rooms, at least, open pans of water. Where windows are open for change of air, the air currents set up will provide sufficient air movement. There is always passage of air through walls, around door and window casings, etc., the quantity of air or rate of movement depending upon (a) material of which walls are constructed;  (b) difference in temperature on the two sides of the walls. This explains why it is not necessary in winter to open windows quite so wide as in summer to secure sufficient air change. QUESTIONS. 1. Quote Marion Talbot on how conservation of human life is to be accomplished. 2. What is sanitation? 3. In your Opinion, is it just to judge the mental, moral, and social status of a family by the external appearance of the home? Why? 4. Discuss the desirable country home under the following headings: (a) Land drainage. (b) Outbuildings. (c) Disposal of wastes. 5. How can you, as a property owner, aid your city government in maintaining a clean city? 6. Explain why it is essential to keep floors clean? Cupboards and closets? Refrigerators? 7. Does your experience and observation lead you to agree with the statement that in the majority of homes dishwashing is unsanitary? 8. Why should dishes be washed clean? Describe the process. 9. Discuss the necessity of only clean hands handling the family's food. icy. Why is dust harmful to food? 11. Discuss the fly in relation to food. 12. Why should mice be excluded from the house? ing 13. What factors determine the fitness of air for breath- 14. What is the approved temperature for living rooms? 15. Explain why it is necessary to open our windows wider in summer than in winter to secure change of air? «
 LESSON IV. (Required.) SOCIAL SERVICE Fourth Week in November. HEALTH. (Sanitation, Continued.) The chief problems with which the house wife is concerned in the broader housekeeping, (that extending beyond the four walls of home), are, (a) water supply;  (b) food supply;  (c) disposal of wastes. In country homes all these things are usually under the direct control of the family, which is fortunate, providing these matters are given proper attention. If a spring is the source of water supply, it should be cleaned out, walled up, and then isolated from the intrusion of animals and the chance passerby by means of a high, tight, fence. If the source is a well, it should be protected by a cement or other water-tight curb, extending two or three feet below the surface of the ground to prevent unfiltered surface water flowing in. Uncovered wells should not be tolerated, and the cover should be of such a nature as to prevent drippings from the pump flowing back into the well. Water from open canals and ditches should not be used for drinking purposes unless thoroughly boiled. Fortunately, much of the food consumed in country homes comes directly from the fields and gardens to kitchen and the problem then becomes one of taking care of the food in a sanitary manner. Farmers' Bulletin No. 375, which may be had by writing the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C, will be found helpful. Many farm homes, however, should improve their methods of milk production. Too often the cows are kept in filth udder deep, are never curried, so that hair falls off into the milk pail;  careless boys with dirty hands, are still dirtier overalls, do the milking, sometimes giving the udder and teats a casual brushing, often not. The housewife can exert her influence 'to secure clean, dry quarters for the cows, with special attention to caring for and washing of the udder and surrounding parts;  can insist on the milker having thoroughly clean hands, and on his donning r clean coverall of some sort. She can also provide a covered milk pail. Pork production is another matter in which the average farm home might improve. Pigs should be provided with clean, dry sties, plenty of pasture room, and clean food.