[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | May | Issue: 23 | Title: OBEDIENCE WITHOUT SEVERITY. | Author: Unknown]

OBEDIENCE WITHOUT SEVERITY.

	(Read at the Mothers’ Congress in Salt
Lake City, Tuesday morning, April 11th,
1899.)
	Law is the governing force of the uni-
verse. If a man keeps himself in harmony
with nature, he must obey her laws; if he
enjoys citizenship in a country, he must
obey the laws of that country, and if he is
respected in his business relations, he must
adjust himself to the laws of the business
world.
	The necessity of obedience seems so self
evident that any discussion on that subject
would seem out of place. Nevertheless
there are persons who hesitate to compel
obedience fearing lest they might injure the

[Column 2]
child’s will power. But we think this is
not so. Too frequently where there is
strong will power displayed it is a mani-
festation of selfishness.
	Children do sometimes have strong
instinctive desires in the right direction;
therefore their motives should be most
cautiously considered. But it should be
kept in mind that there is a vast difference
between desirable will power and stubborn-
ness. If we would have our children con-
tented and happy themselves and if we
would make of them desirable associates, it
is imperative that we should have them
overcome blind and unreasonable stubborn-
ness. A stubborn, unconquered child is
sure to develop into a man so self-centered
and so determined to have his own way that
he will forego pleasures and even success
rather than retract, and will be as he was
when a child, his own greatest enemy.
	But this spirit of obedience so intimately
connected with peace, order and prosperity
and so beneficial to the young man in the
outer world comes only after long training
and unceasing effort in the home.
	It is here that his first ideas and im-
pressions are formed, and it is here that
he first learns to respect the rights of
others. However, this training in obedi-
ence should be pleasant to both parent and
child, it should result from a system of
kindness and love, rather than from one
of harshness; for while we aim to prepare
the child for his life’s work it is not less
important that the home be made pleasant
to himself and others.
	It is possible to train children into strict
obedience by violent methods; but a child
so trained will be obedient only through
fear; and when he assumes responsibility
over others he will use the same harsh
method. It is in this manner that tyrants
are made.—None are so tyrranical as they
who have been reared in bondage.
	Such a plan as described may produce
obedience; but it is obedience that is de-
structive to the life of the individual and
the home.
	If then we denounce obedience through
fear the question naturally arises,—“What
should be the motive prompting proper
obedience?” The right kind of obedience
is prompted not by fear but by love,
unselfishness, and a strong regard for the
rights of others. 
	Now we are confronted with another
question. We admit in the abstract that
love is the law which should govern our
effort, but how shall we put this thought
into practice?
	Educators say that the best way to
lessen evil and develop virtue is to begin
early—the earlier the better—to cultivate in
children desirable habits; that a good habit
well formed is the best fortification against
temptation. They even go further and say
that through the power of habit the possi-
bilities in moral training are infinite.
	We all know that habits formed in early
life are the most lasting; that those formed
in later years never attain the same stability;
therefore the mother should begin early,
and from babyhood to school age—a period

[Column 3]
wherein her influence is unopposed by any
outside one—she should work with per-
sistence and determination, so that by the
time the child is 6 or 8 years old the habit
of obedience will be thoroughly established.
	We have emphasized this thought be-
cause of the tendency of so many mothers
and guardians to say, “O, he’s the baby,
let him go,”—and thus they cultivate
habits entirely opposed to those they would
form.
	It will take time and patience to train the
infant or very young child to be obedient—
but less time and less patience, than it
takes to break up the habit of disobedience.
One writer even declares that it requires
more than four-fold the power to change a
habit, than to form one.
	Thus we would make habit building the
first step.
	In forming the habit of obedience in
children and in treating cases of disobedi-
ence mothers will find that there are many
methods of procedure; but she who gives
time, study and careful thought to this
subject will very soon conclude that she
will seldom need to resort to severe
methods.
	Bolton Hall says—“It is high time to
awake from sleep in things intellectual
as well as things spiritual; in things edu-
cational as well as in things material. We
have begun to deprecate either contempt or
neglect of the rights of man, but it has
hardly yet been admitted that children
have any rights which grown people are
bound to respect; so though we have ceased
to club women, we still beat children and
make the best excuse we can for our
brutality.”
	While this “beating process” is followed
up by many mothers of today, others are
spoiling their children by unwisely indulg-
ing them in every whim—a method which
fosters selfishness and like the rule with the
hard hand also makes tyrants.
	It would appear that punishment of some
sort is not to be avoided in this mortal
existence; but when it is necessary it should
be chosen wisely and be properly applied.
	Many parents are in favor of corporal
punishment because it requires LESS TIME
and brings partially desirable results—and
indeed the results are but partially desir-
able, for while it is natural to connect the
blow with the physical nature ONLY, the
harm done the child’s spiritual nature is
infinitely greater, for it makes obtuse and irre-
sponsive those fine and tender emotions 
upon which so much reliance must be
placed for future complete development. 
	A very small child who cannot reason
will perhaps profit by having his hands
spatted, but it seems plain that you can
teach a larger child nothing by beating him
“except that you are a bigger animal, and
as revengeful as he, and that a blow hurts
which he already knows.”
	We have admitted that punishment is
necessary and now we would state that
just punishment is just;—it is an irrevoc-
able law of nature.
	Nature stands as THE GREAT teacher
of humanity, and on this subject as on all


[Column 1]
others she has something to say. Many do
not understand the voice of nature and
either add an artificial punishment or some
corrective that in no way relates to the
offence. By way of explaining the first
thought we offer the following story: A
little boy who was forbidden to go into the
street alone was persistent in this action.
One day he came in contact with a horse
and cart and was knocked down but fortun-
ately was not injured. The mother seeing
his danger rushed out in the street and
when the frightened boy ran to meet her
she gave him a vigorous whipping.
	Now we ask was not the severe fright
from which the child suffered punishment
enough of itself? We think the natural
result of his disobedience was severe, and
sufficient to teach him his mistake; but the
punishment of his mother turned his
thoughts from it and very likely filled him
with malice and distrust.
	But I think I hear you say not all
offences are pursued to that issue where the
dire consequence is manifest. For instance
we take the familiar case of a child who
continually disregards his mother’s request
by going into the water. It may be of no
avail to tell him he will catch cold or take
some violent disease, for many children are
so blessed with health that these results do
not follow. In such a case depriving a
child of liberty by tieing him up or keeping
him in the house because he has disobeyed
the laws of liberty seems a more rational
method than whipping. Another illustra-
tion we think will serve to impress the
thought of rational punishment:
	A woman who had a large family of boys
and no girls made use of her boys in the
home. She appointed one—a lad of about
12 years—to take care of the wash tubs.
He was to put them in the cellar after
the washing and keep them there. She
explained what would happen to them
if they were left out in the sun, and gave all
the caution she thought necessary.
	However, not many days after she found
one of the tubs broken down. She did not
lose her temper and punish—she simply
told him he must try to set the tub up
again. After he had worked all the after-
noon he realized the graveness of his
neglect and was filled with regret.
	If this mother had inflicted a severe
punishment her son would very likely have
been filled with anger and would have felt
glad that her tub was destroyed.
	Those who discuss juvenile discipline
often attribute all the faults to children and
none to parents, but as we readily see that
the child is for the most part what his par-
ents have made him we do not hesitate
to say that much of the blame should go to
parents. The duties of the parent are
innumerable, but the first and most im-
portant of all, are those he owes to his
children and in this direction he should put
his best efforts.
	Perhaps the hardest and most beneficial
lesson for the mother to learn is the lesson
of self control. Some one has said that
a mother should be an angel and it seems
she would need to be if she were able
to control herself at all times. She cannot
be perfect in this respect but she can exert
herself toward this end, and by having
a definite purpose in view she can accom-
plish very much. The mother who does
this will find that she can coolly reason
when she is called upon to administer
punishment. She can look for the cause of
the disobedience and can decide on the

[Column 2]
proper punishment. She does not make
threats nor say fifty things she will re-
gret the next minute.
	On the other hand look at the mother
who knows no self control; she loses her
reason, whips, scolds, makes threats that
she never keeps and is a picture that
the child will always remember—yes and
imitate if he is ever left in control of baby
sister.
	It is this lack of self control that makes
a tyrant of the parent. A mother who
is thoughtful in dispensing reward or
punishment is a director—a sympathetic
adviser; while a parent who punishes be-
cause he feels irritable or angry is tyrrani-
cal. Parents who are swayed by differ-
ent emotions fall into many errors that tend
to make disobedient children.
	The mother should early establish her
authority—she should impress upon the
mind of the child that she has many re-
sponsibilities in caring for the home, that
she understands what is for the best of
all and more than all that she is the
authority and must be obeyed.
	There is nothing more desirable, as re-
gards the life of parents and children, than
that perfect confidence exist. And in order
to secure this confidence so desirable the
parent must be truthful. So often dis-
obedience is aggravated by parents who
disregard this law. It is sadly common
to hear mothers press children into obeying
by promising them results which they
know will never come. A mother should
be truthful and constant in all her dealings
with the child—if she tells him such a
consequence will follow a certain act
she should see that it does follow and that
it follows every time the act is committed.
	She should be firm but loving and
affectionate. If she says no she should
mean no. A mother who changes her
mind often, “who makes rules in haste and
repents of them at leisure, who treats an
offence with severity at one time and with
leniency the next, is laying up miseries for
herself and for her children.” Even if
a mother has a poor method it is better
to stick to it and be firm than to have
a good method and be changable. Lack
of firmness fosters the habit of coaxing—a
firm mother will seldom be annoyed in
this.
	When children make requests (or ask
for privileges) the mother should think
a moment before answering in order to
decide exactly in the right, for if she is
busy and worried, she is very apt to say
“no”—and on reflection find that the
request could as well as not have been
granted. But if she has said a thing she
should see that it is carried out at what-
ever cost; for it is better to deprive a child
of a pleasure than to first refuse him and
then give permission. Many enslave them-
selves by offering bribes and by threats.
Children should not be bribed into obedi-
ence—if once this habit is begun there
is no opportunity to stop and in time
children will not exert themselves in the
least degree unless they receive some re-
muneration. Threatening is also to be
avoided—a child soon learns that a THREAT
means nothing and pays little attention to it.
	A mother should be just and reasonable
—reasonable from her own standpoint and
from the standpoint of the child. Sbe
should never ask him to make promises
which she knows he cannot keep and
should not measure his judgment and
ability by her own.

[Column 3]
	In making requests of him she should be
polite, for if a reasonable request is made in
a polite way the mother is very apt to
be obeyed. In severe cases if it is necessary
to command she should do so—and with de-
cision but in no case should she nag.
	She should avoid asking a child to do a
thing when he is in a bad humor and
would just as soon refuse as to obey. If
she feels that he will refuse she should
not press him into disobedience—better
first divert his attention and thus avoid
an outbreak.
	There should be established between the
mother and child a standard of right and
upon this standard all their dealings with
each other should be based. She should
be conscientious herself and teach him to be
the same. It is much easier to be obedi-
ent to law because it is right than to
be obedient, because somebody has asked us
to be.
	The position of the child to the parents
is not unlike our position to God. The
child is placed in their care and is sub-
ject to their will and upon his conception
of their qualifications will be based his
faith in them. By a moment of reflection
it will be seen that our faith in God depends
entirely on our knowledge of His attributes
—we could not trust nor believe in a God if
He were without judgment, justice and
mercy; we could not have faith in Him
if He were varying in His action; neither
will the child have faith in a parent who
lacks these qualities—his faith in them
will be in proportion to the extent of their
perfection. Let parents then bear in mind
that if they would keep the faith of
their children they must so live that their
actions will appeal to the child.
	No doubt it occurs to many mothers
as they listen to the ideas advanced, that
they are very well as theories but will
not stand the test of practice. Let me say
to those mothers if any such be here that by
exerting ourselves in this direction much
more can be done than we may at first
think. In all cases the mother must use
her judgment. Each case will need some
special attention but the ultimate good
flowing from such patience and considera-
tion will be ample reward.
	The prophet uttered a truth that the
history of the world is ever emphasizing
when he said “obedience is better than
sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of
rams.”
	Obedience is the great law that the
universe is ever emphasizing. One who
does not obey this divine command written
on every page of nature’s book finds himself
at war with everything in the world; while
the man who grows up in obedience finds
himself in harmony with everything in the
world.
	At home, in the nation, in the church, he
discovers this thought dominating all.—
“The path of obedience is the only one
that leads to absolute and perfect liberty.
It is the fundamental law of the great truth
which shall make us free.”
