Thom's "Everyday Problems of the Everyday Child" By Lais V. Hales
UNTIL recently parents have not appreciated the fact that the obligations of parenthood mean a great deal more than to see that the child has enough to eat and wear and does not steal, lie, or set fires. Of the many helpful books that have been written in the last three years along child development and parenthood obligation lines, Dr. Douglas A. Thom's "Everyday Problems of the Everyday Child" stands out prominently. Written in 1927, it received the "Children, The Parents' Magazine" medal for the best book of the year for parents. Through his "Habit Clinics" in Boston, Dr. Thom had received a wealth of practical experience with children of all types. He felt that during the formative years a child is likely to acquire some undesirable habits and personality traits such as cruelty, lying, anger, etc. This was to be expected in some phase of every child's development and did not in any way stamp a child as abnormal or cast any reflection upon the parents. So he wrote his book to plead that parents, instead of being ashamed and humiliated at the appearance of undesirable traits in their children, face them, study them, and deal with them understandingly. To him one of the most important tasks of parents is to see that the boy or girl is happy and is learning how to meet problems of everyday life successfully. Loving the child is not enough. Knowledge is required for the job of parenthood. Above all, Dr. Thom stresses the importance of the motives for conduct rather than the conduct itself.
EVERY living thing is affected both by heredity and environment, but the great majority of children with undesirable habits, personality deviations, and delinquent trends are not the product of an irreparable past, over which they have no control. They are largely the result of the environment in which they have been reared; and the dominating feature of this environment is always the parent. Habits are the tools by which we achieve health, happiness, and efficiency. Reward, praise, blame, and punishment must be considered in bringing about desirable habits in the child. Children are born without habits. Existence necessitates the taking on of various modes of action. Whether these modes shall be desirable or undesirable will depend upon the training given the child. But important as is the guiding, directing, and training of the child, it must not overshadow the creating in the home of an atmosphere of affection, kindly consideration, and fair play.
OBEDIENCE in the child should not be looked upon as an end in itself, for it is only a means to an end, and that end is self-control and restraint. Forceful and uncompromising measures on the part of parents to gain obedience lead often to stubbornness. Obedience comes from discipline. The child will learn the value of obedience by experience, and not by any process of moralization. Let the child learn by experience that his way of doing things works out to his disadvantage while obedience leads to pleasure and satisfaction. Make as few demands as possible upon the child and stimulate him to his best efforts by compensation. Approbation should be given without too much restraint. Material incentives should be given. Every command made by a parent should be followed up. A command worth
271
giving is worth carrying out, but avoid overcorrection and autocratic manner. Above all things let parents expect obedience. Do not let the child feel that you are uncertain as to his response, or that you are sure he will disobey. The child particularly wants to live up to what is expected of him.
ANGER is experienced by every individual. We do not want to eradicate it, but rather, through education, training, and experience, to teach the child how to control this emotion. Let the child early in life see that anger does not work out to his advantage. Often anger is only a danger signal, warning parents to look further for a deeper cause. Find out what the child is thinking about. What are his problems, hopes, and disappointments? A reasonable explanation of why a child should do a particular thing will do much to train him along the path of obedience and protect him from irritability and spells of anger.
FEAR is a common emotion?one that may prove to be constructive or destructive in the development of the personality of the child. The stimulation of fear in a child is not only barbarous and cruel, but practically useless. Parents should not create about their children a perpetual atmosphere of fear?of ever present danger?by incessantly warning them of dangers. Caution is necessary to success but too many people are dominated by fear. The fears of childhood are very real to the child and should never be minimized, criticized, or ridiculed. Patience and consideration, with a kindly and confident attitude will do much to quiet the fears of childhood.
JEALOUSY between the ages of one and five is common to most children. If, by accident or otherwise, this emotion is fostered and allowed to dominate the personality, serious difficulty in social adaptation will follow. By its very nature jealousy carries with it a lowering of self-valuation; followed by humiliation, concealment, and shame. Much conduct that is described as queer, eccentric, or peculiar is based on jealousy. It is not an inheritance; it is usually the result of selfishness, which means faulty training. The child who has learned to share his toys, who has learned to appreciate that his mother has other duties in life besides fulfilling his every wish, will probably not be much handicapped by jealousy.
HONESTY is acquired, not inherited. The instinct of acquisition is strong in children and they must be trained to differentiate within the family group that which belongs to them from that which is the property of somebody else. To treat stealing in children, the important thing to do is to determine what purpose the stealing served in the emotional life of the child and then make every effort to help the child meet this need in a legitimate way. Stealing may be the reaction to a jealous inferiority, to revenge, or to a blind effort to find some satisfactory outlet. If parents meet the problem of dishonesty openly and
EVERYDAY PROBLEMS OF THE CHILD 272
frankly and intelligently there is no cause for alarm. If they keep in touch with the daily activities of their children they will detect the habit of stealing and dishonesty before it has gained much headway.
RARELY do we find a child who is wilfully and wantonly destructive. Activity is fundamental with them, and there is always a plan behind it?an end in view. The child has no sense of values so he should have a corner of his own to play in. Curiosity, the desire to find out what makes things go, how they are made, and what can be done with them, is the cause of most of what we call the destructive tendencies in children.
Along with the above traits and habits Dr. Thom discusses many others such as feeding, sleeping, inferiority, truancy, lying, sex, and teacher and pupil relationship. This book is richly illustrated with individual cases bearing upon his subject. Dr. Thom's attitude, however, is the most helpful thing about his book. It is one of complete sympathy with the child and encouragement for the often bewildered and discouraged and humiliated parent. We feel the wisdom of Dr. Thom and his earnest desire to help. The book is written in such a way that it is most readable, helpful, and applicable to the lives of our children. He stresses always the motives for conduct rather than the conduct itself, the importance of parental study of children, and the use of patience, intelligence, and frankness in any matter dealing with children. He pleads for companionship between parents and children, urging that it be established in the early years of the child's life. It is a very friendly book full of the common sense so necessary in proper parenthood.
273
PARENTS?YOUR PROBLEM SOLVED
THE problem of selecting a college with which to entrust the business training of your sons and daughters is of the utmost importance. Those human lives are involved?your own flesh and blood?and the training received will become an inseparable part of their lives. If good it will bring success and honor; if poor it will prove a handicap for life.
The development of character is the chief aim of all education, and you want to be sure that your sons and daughters will be surrounded by good influences. You want them to gain in business integrity as well as in knowledge and technical ability, and no matter how good their home training has been their character will be influenced by the environment in which they receive their business education.
At the L. D. S. Business College the maintenance of a high moral standard is considered of first importance, and when you entrust your sons and daughters to our care you may be sure that they will be surrounded by influences that will make for upright manhood and womanhood, as well as for educational thoroughness.
Doesn't this appeal to you? You cannot estimate in dollars and cents the advantage of having your sons and daughters receive business training amid such elevating and refining influences. You need have no fear in sending them to us alone, for we will take your place in looking after their mental, moral and physical welfare, and you can rest assured that when they leave us they will be fully equipped for the future in every sense of the word.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
Write us for full information
The Homeless Ones By Alfred Osmond
I sing of those whose parents have been parted, Not by the hand of death, which would be kind; But by a broken vow of the false-hearted Who desecrate the temples of the mind.
Methinks their cruelty is less refined Than those who rob the coffers of the poor. They steal the birthrights that should be enshrined In homes that should be builded to endure The storms that make the brave more steadfast and secure.
The homeless ones who in their dire distress Will never feel a mother's fond embrace. The children whom the Lord can hardly bless With compensation for parental grace.
The storms of life that they will have to face Without the blessings of a happy home Stamps wantonness with that debauched disgrace That curses the unfortunate who roam, With no protecting care from heaven's heedless dome.
Torn from their cradles by a legal hand, I hear and heed the homeless children crying. The curse is stalking boldly through the land, While wounded love in chains is sadly sighing.
While hopes of happiness are slowly dying, The wrecker of the home laughs loud with scorn. But Vengeance, like an angry god, is flying, To herald forth the rights of these unborn And comfort breaking hearts of those who weep and mourn.
Think not to fly from justice, but be sure That all the fairest prospects of the nation Are rocked in cradles that must be secure From robbers and their creeds of desecration.
The birdlings, in their nests of procreation, Are often crying for paternal care. Heed not their cries, and drums of devastation Will call to arms the storm-gods of the air, To overwhelm the world 'neath billows of despair.