The "Dry" Side of "Wet Canada By Frank Steele HOSE Americans who hold up the system of government control of liquor in operation in Canada as an ideal solution to the age-old "liquor question" must be unacquainted with the situation as it actually exists in the dominion. It is true that the provinces of Canada are showing millions of profits annually from the sale of liquor, much of which is contributed by tourists from the United States, but at what a price? There is a "Dry"' side to the story of '"Wet" Canada. Government control is not the Utopian answer to the whisky problem that it is often painted. The making of strong drink easily accessible in Canada may fatten the dividends of breweries and distilleries; it may pyramid the surpluses shown by the provincial governments;. It may lure more tourists and may help to build better roads; but what of the price of all this traffic? Does it pay a government to go into the liquor business? One city in Canada, Toronto, the "Star" of that city told us in June last year, spent in two years $25,- 000,000 in booze, as much as the city spent on school buildings in 29 years. Toronto is paying twice as much in a year for liquor as it pays in salaries to its 3,000 school teachers. Continuing, the "Star" said: "Technical education is rated as one of the most important items in the life of the city—the preparation of its youth to take its place in the world of industry. Yet for every dollar that Toronto spent on technical education last year, it spent over $12 at the cashier's wickets in the government liquor stores." These figures for one Canadian city indicate the staggering waste in rum and that waste is steadily mounting for consumption under government sale is increasing. Canada's bold attempt to meet the problem of liquor by the system of state sale has attracted wide attention particularly in the neighboring country to the south—the United States—where the enforcement of nation-wide prohibition legislation is taxing the resources of the nation. Canada's experiment is being closely followed and too often erroneously pictured. The Canadian government, through the department of trade and commerce, has issued an illuminating Bulletin on "The Liquor Traffic in Canada" and by reason of its official nature it is of special value in any analysis of the situation undertaken with a sincere desire to get at the facts. The data in this valuable Bulletin was prepared by Prof. L. W. Moffat of Wesley College, Winnipeg, and Prof. J. T. Culliton of McGill University, Montreal, the matter covering the period from 1912 to 1928. The figures summarized show that under Prohibition the consumption of liquor was greatly reduced, and under government sale the consumption greatly increased; also that increase in crime and increased access to liquor have gone hand in hand. Government sale in the various provinces went into effect at different times from 1921 to 1927. According to the Bulletin the population of Canada during that period 540 increased less than 10 per cent yet the per capita gallonage consumption of liquor increased as follows: Year Spirits Malt Liquor Wines ie 23) 4,316 188 1928 425 6,070.679 Frank Yeigh, Canadian writer and statistician, gives the liquor bill for Canada in 1927 as $180,000,000, and certainly in the past two years it has not grown less. The mineral production of the dominion in 1928 was valued at $128,500,000. Place these two sets of figures side by side and one catches a glimpse of the terrific economic drain on the nation occasioned by the liquor traffic fostered by the state. Now as to the increase of crime: From 1922 to 1928, indictable offences in Canada increased from 15,720 to 21,691, or 37 per cent. Convictions for drunkenfess from 25,048 to 33,095 or 32 per cent. Violation of liquor laws, from 8,519 to 15,150, or 77 per cent. Criminals listed as _immoderate drinkers, 63.9 per cent. An interesting point cited in the Bulletin is an increase of 109 per cent in deaths from alcoholism. From these trustworthy statistics a different situation is disclosed to that inferred in the flippant and frequent cry: "Canada has the right idea on the liquor business." A favorite argument of advocates of so-called government control is that it tends to encourage modera-_ tion in drinking. But does it? The province of Alberta, for instance, supplies some illuminating data on this contention. In 1925, the first full year under government control 375 interdictions for excessive drinking, were registered, and in 1928, 792. The total number of interdicts RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in Alberta on June 15, 1929, was 1,288 and 58 of these were women. Now not all the provinces of Canada are "Wet." Prince Edward Island is still in the "Dry" column and is likely to remain so for in two years 'the people have given two pronounced mandates to their government on the question. The answer to this consistent adherence to prohibition may be found in the very satisfactory social and economic conditions prevailing under the prohibition law. Prohibition in that province has not shown itself fruitful of crime and lawlessness. On the contrary, crime i in that little province "by the sea" is extraordinarily light, for instance: Convictions per 100,000 population in 1927: Assaults, for P. E. L., Canada, 36. Breaches of liquor laws, P. E. I., 76; all Canada, 131. Vagrancy, P. E. I., 11; all Canada 80. Drunkenness, 'P. (E. 4., 210; all Canada, 314. Keeping, frequenting or inmate of bawdy house, P. E. I., 1; all Canada, 25. Loose, idle, disorderly, P. E. I., 8; all Canada, 58. All this information serves to reveal the fact that there is in very truth "another side" to Canada's story of government control and sale of liquor. And Canada is fast awakening to that fact as anxious eyes look beyond the imposing array of booze profits to the increasing jail population, the mounting figures for crime, the millions spent on rum that might be diverted to constructive channels,; and the demoralizing social and spiritual effects of this growing evil upon the lives and homes of the people. 11; all The Relief Society Magazine's New Editor ITH this issue of the Magazine we present to our \) \) readers our new editor, Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball. Through her literary productions, covering a period of many years, Mrs. Kimball's name is already familiar to the readers of the Church. She was for sixteen years editor of the Young Woman's Journal, and she has also contributed interesting and scholarly articles to other of our Church periodicals. In addition to her writing, Mrs. Kimball is well known as a forceful, eloquent, clear cut, and logical public speaker. It would not be an exaggeration to say she is broadly educated, she is a philosopher in her thinking. Even now, her fondness for study is such that her spare moments are devoted to graduate study that she already has considerable credit toward the degree of Master of Arts. As a member of the General Board of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association she has travelled exten- | sively during her long service, speaking in the interest of the work of this great organization. With her religious background and ideals, coupled with her education, experience, and natural ability, Mrs. Kimball is unusually well qualified to serve as editor of the Relief Society Magazine and thus guide in a general way the reading, the study, and the thinking of the mature women of the Church. Her leadership will be wise, safe, progressive and inspiring. Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman, Julia A. Child, Presidency.