Lone Rock To Alice Reynolds By Claire Stewart Boyer They salute you, the mightiest waves of the sea As they gallantly dash towards the shore, And the waves that have failed their destiny, Returning, beg solace once more; The omnipotent ocean is washing you clean, It is helping to shape your soul, And the hearts of the sea-faring folk are turned To the Lone Rock that heralds the goal. You are touched by His first precious morning light You are kissed by His evening star, You combine all the faith of the things to be With the joy of the things that are; And no matter what tempests the Master sends, And no matter what mists arise, You will loom, Lone Rock as a signal of hope To our wind-weary, sea-faring eyes. I am only a speck in the crowd afloat,, But sometimes as the night draws on, I find myself thinking of you, Lone Rock, And I muse till the break of dawn; My comrades, somehow, seem depending on me, And I know they'd rejoice if I spoke, So I send you the trust of a thousand hearts And the love of the sea-faring folk. SN Is Your House in Orderr If you have a loving, devoted husband and father that's certainly a blessing. BUT—is your future as secure as it should be? The husband of today whose foremost thought is the comfort of his loved ones, will not gamble on their future. Life Insurance guarantees the continuance of the comforts in the absence of the husband— THE BIG HOME COMPANY can make your home happier with a policy to suit your purse. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Heber J. Grant E. T. Ralphs President Gen. Mer. Our Reputation Our enviable reputation in this State is the gesult of a strict maintenance to the foundation policy. That policy in brief is "To give every customer the MOST of the BEST merchandise at the LOWEST cost consistent with first quality goods." 0. P SKAGGS Officient Service FOOD System ghuis "A Surety of Purity' Sesgo MILK for Puddings Pies "4 Custards Creams Rival At All Grocer's When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Relief Society Women--- Attention | After sixteen years of service to the people, the BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT of the Relief Society takes this opportunity of expressing appreciation to you for your co-operation and patronage, which has contributed to the growth and stability of the Department. The Presidency of the Church, realizing the needs of the people, authorized the establishment of the Department in 1913. Since that time it has endeavored to serve the people. The Burial Clothes Department desires to announce that it has on hand a large and complete stock of temple and burial clothing in a variety of materials. There are suits for men and women, and burial clothing for children, including tailored suits for small boys. We give prompt and careful attention to mail, telephone and telegraph orders, and prepay postage and express charges. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine coneiallinedone as <a —— —> - ——$— A Famous Overall Made Better Still! —NOW THAT MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS The new, exclusive, patented feature that has aroused the enthusiasm of workmen everywhere. Saves time, ae THEY COST YOU NO MORE! ' Ask Your Dealer for Mountaineer Overalls and Work Suits Equipped With Stop-Loss Pockets Manufactured in Salt Lake City by Z. C. M. I. Clothing Factory | mH | | asl "FOR THE ADORNMENT Buy At | AND PROTECTION OF VOGELERS: ALL SURFACES" BULBS Bennett's Tuli | H acinths. AS Property PLANT NOW {Vite Plour—Hay—Grain—Poultry and Dog — | PURE PAINTS Vog an — Co. Bennett Glass & Paint Co. Salt Lake City Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine / 'They cost Send in your Mail Orders Genuine Uintah Basin HONEY Telephone Us Wasatch 804 saves tools and valuables—and saves temper. \ Insurance V ARNISHES ENAMELS MRS ABBY G JENSEN HONEYVILLE UTAH prbbhibhph hp ppp ppappanannics [ip 4 APOSITION WIth a FUTURE: Graduates of the L. D. S. Business» College secure well-paid starting positions, where there is every opportunity for advancement. Many of America's wealthiest men and women began as stenographers, bookkeepers, and office _ assistants. Our practical business - courses place graduates where "the lightning of promotion" is likely to strike. Free catalog contains inspiring examples of rapid promotions. Your name on this ad will bring you a copy promptly. L. D. S. Busistens College SALT LAKE CITY © 0009 00O00069006000060000000000000000000 ON ae N Addliiges _.............200..................... Ee— 004O000060000006006000004 When Buying Mention Relief Society. Magazine 9OOO¢ November We 1930 No. 1 a, | ih U ~~ TCE a Between You and Cold Weathers:=<«= KNIGHT Spring Canyon and ROYAL COALS HEN winter winds blow, make sure of your winter comfort with Knight Spring Canyon and Royal Coals. Knight Spring Canyon is "'Utah's Cleanest, hardest, hottest coal," long burning, hard and clean in your bin from Utah's deepest seam mine. Royal Coal, "Hot'n Clean," is a superior freeburning, quick starting coal giving intense heat. KNIGHT FUEL CO. ROYAL COAL CO. L. E. ADAMS, General Sales Agent Les Angeles and California Points 11:60 a. M. 11:00 p. M. Denver—Kansas City-—St. Louis—Chicage 3:00 pa. MC 12:01 a. M. Pecatello—Boise—Portiand—Spekane 7:00 a. M. 2:00 p. M. 6:30 p. M. Travel by Bus With Railroad Certainty UNION BUS STATION When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine General Offices, 818 Newhouse Bldg.. Phone Was. 6231 Salt Lake City, Utah 144-146 E. Broadway off?" "Would my wife find it necessary to sell the house that we had looked forward to owning completely in the course of years?" W HAT would happen if I should die before the Mortgage is paid These are the questions that force themselves upon your attention if you have purchased or propose to purchase, When fairly considered it becomes clear that the answer lies in LIFE INSURANCE, and especially in a life policy that is particularly adapted to the cirecumstances. THE EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY through its Mortgage Loan Department has evolved a plan whereby on the payment of a single premium the amount of incumbrance upon a home up to the full amount of the Mortgage would be discharged at once in the event of death while the Mortgage is current. To make this advantage available to as many of its Borrowers as possible the Society is prepared to advance the amount of the premium in addition to the loan upon the House Property. This is no initial extra outlay and the periodical payment to the Insurance Company for the added protection is increased only by a very moderate sum. The formalities are very simple. You fill up a form of proposal that will be supplied by the Society through its local Financial Correspondents, Ashton-Jenkins Company. No extra charge is made for the medical application of the applicant and the negotiations for the loan and the insurance are strictly private. This plan of home purchase is applicable to existing as well as to hew mortgages—if your mortgage has been running for some time, you may protect your dependents by taking out a policy to cover the unexpired term of your mortgage, Ashton-Jenkins Company 32 Main Street -Wasateh 123 Correspondent The Equitable Life Assurance Society These Loans Available Only in Salt Lake—Ogden and Provo —PROTECT YOUR DEPENDENTS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine