(To be continued) Amber By Ruth Moench Bell to take John Brookbank by the ear and march him home till he got sense enough to behave himself. Once was on account of a cat. The other was—but what is the use? I didn't accomplish a thing either time. You've heard of Barbara Leslie? But of course you have. Every one has her phonograph records and tries the perfume named after her. And everyone that hasn't heard her sing, yearns for the opportunity. OP oa: in my life I've wanted And every one who has heard her, yearns to hear her forever. Her picture is as familiar as George Washington's or Abraham Lincoln's. | When she sang in Cresson, her home town, after all the world had heard her, Cresson suddenly became a great metropolis. People. Came from towns four times as large. And even the windows and outer steps of our Opera. House were jammed with the eager crowd. And applause! Every one was so AMBER proud because the real prima donna was our Barbara. After we'd encored her till our hands tingled, I remembered her sister Lydia. Where was she! How proud she must be! Lydia had married humbly and remained in Cresson and was the happy mother of two lovely children. I turned my eyes for a minute from the youthful looking singer to search for her sister. When I found her I certainly felt a shock. There was scarce two years between them and Lydia might have been her mother. Some women bloom after marriage and others fade. And then I suppose singing is easier than housework and the care of two little ones, especially when one's husband has only a small salary and so can not afford much help. Then too, I am told, Barbara knows how to make up skillfully for the stage. Not that Lydia is not beautiful! She has the most lovely mother face one ever saw. But the contrast between the two was certainly sharp. I couldn't help a sigh escaping, because I love Lydia. 1 my eyes roving back to Barbara, caught sight of John Brookbank. And of all the effrontery! There he sat with his arms folded across his chest, as proud as if he owned Barbara. His heart and soul were in his eyes and in them lay that unmistakable expression of the supreme devotion of a deathless love. I wanted to box his ears and bring him back to earth. I wanted to march him home till he learned a little sense. I didn't hear the music after that. What was that absurd story I recalled of Barbara and John being childhood sweethearts? Isn't it just like a man to expect a claim like that to hold good in spite of the changes of time and fate? 529 If any other man than John had gazed at Barbara like that I wouldn't have cared. No doubt, thousands of them did whenever she sang. It does a man good to look up and adore. But John Brookbank!. The sort of man who loves once and once only, completely and absorbingly. And how happy he might have made some dear little girl whose greatest joy would have been to cook and mend and save and economize and make the home beautiful for John. And how John wouid have appreciated it all! And now to go and spoil his life falling in love with an unattainable star. And lucky for John that she was unattainable. Why, John couldn't pay for any of the petty extravagances into which she had fallen. John came to see me the next day. I knew he would. And the ridiculous boy was all enthusiasm about her as though he had already wooed and won her and the disparity of her tastes and his income were a mere trifle instead of a tragic - reality. "Tsn't she wonderful, Auntie," he breathed. I was vexed enough to shake him. John is the kind of man_every woman yearns to mother. You want to take his beautiful, boyish head in your arms and shield him from all that is not ideal. But today I felt different about him. To go and blunder like that when he was entitled to the best in the world. "As soon as a woman wins the heights," I snapped, "some man stands ready to bag her and set her in a cottage to cook for him." "But the peace and comfort of it, Auntie!" he replied. ''Besides I didn't wait till she had won the heights! We were boy and girl sweethearts," 530 "And now you are dreaming of the peace and comfort of a quiet fireside while she is dreaming of more clamoring multitudes and maids to dress her hair, diamonds and limousines. It would take a millionaire to supply all her expensive tastes. And I know of at least two who are moving heaven and earth to get her. They won't want to drag her down from the heights to cook for them. And they can supply her jewels and gowns, mansions and maids and money." "And divorce and misery," John added. "Not necessarily," I retorted. ATER in the day, Barbara dropped in just as she used to. "Your singing was grand, Barbara," I cried. "There were two who did not care fer it," she chided. "Two who sat like Hindu idols and neither came up to say a word after." I knew she meant John and me. So much has happened since, that I don't know just what I replied. But I tried to show her in a round about way that she must not think of. John. I wanted to show her that John deserved something better than years of misery toiling for a woman who couldn't share his toil and shouldn't. I am afraid I must have biundered, for she did not come back for some time. Though she decided unexpectedly to spend her summer in Cresson. Then Cresson became the center of many activities, mostly connected with Barbara. I must confess, it was the most interesting and exciting summer Cresson ever spent. First, her manager arrived after many telegrams. A most stormy scene ensued. He threatened to cancel her contract if she remained in that little obscure town. He declared she was sure to lose prestige. How was he to keep her in the public eye RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE if she led the humdrum existence of such an ordinary town even for one summer. "You might feature me in the simple life,' Barbara laughed gaily. Already she was the most care-free rested Barbara you ever saw. "I might do that,' he fumed. "Got any pictures?"' "Loads of them," Barbara smiled. "Lydia, where are those films you had developed?" It seems, Lydia had been having a perfectly gorgeous time taking pictures with Barbara's camera. She had snapped Barbara and the children in every conceivable pose. "Give them to me," he cried. And without waiting for explanations of the pictures, off he tramped to the station. And Barbara and Lydia enjoyed one good laugh wondering what possible use he could make of those films. They had just one more laugh coming when a prominent magazine. Came out with pictures of Barbara Leslie leading the simple life, in the home of her childhood. Lydia did inherit the old Leslie home so that much was true. But Barbara was the guest and not the hostess of her 'small niece and nephew. Then appeared pictures of Barbara and Max Jr. Tramping in the woods, the woods being nothing but the old apple orchard. Barbara studying the vocal chambers of her small niece, was really Barbara taking a. Look at the child's throat before prescribing a swab or gargle for her sore throat. Barbara on horse back was a handsome picture. Barbara was magnificently tall and straight wearing a costume she had used in some opera. 'Barbara romping on the spacious lawns of her estate with her niece and nephew," was good but Barbara insisted that the "'spacious lawns' were about the size of a good, generous table cloth. AMBER Inadvertently, I imagine, the name of the town slipped into the article and soon the town was deluged with wires and letters. Sara Duntly, the operator, insisted that they had to employ a messenger and keep him on the road between the telegraph office and Barbara's home with messages and answers. FTER innumerable _ rebuffs, Sara Duntly kept the town posted, of course, the multiest-millionaire of all her admirers, in a wonderful car, chaperoned by his chauffeur and shadowed, I might almost have said over-shadowed by his valet, arrived. He happened in on Barbara, charmingly attired for dusting Lydia's parlors and she was actually dusting them, not playing at dusting them. Lydia declared that his scorn was terrible, that Barbara should so demean herself, doing tasks meant for servants. But when he found his scorn was getting him no where his pleas were most pathetic. After several days, during which time he put up with what he chose to call our 'execrable hotel,' he sped through the village a much chastened man. On the whole I was rather glad Barbara did refuse this man. His scorn might not have been so amusing to Barbara after she had married him and it might have broken out on many occasions. There was one good feature about his coming. It should have shown John Brookbank the absurdity of his aspiring to claim Barbara. WE all felt rather sorrier for the second man of wealth who came very simply and was deeply moved at the sight which first greeted his eyes, Barbara wheeling Lydia's new baby on the side walk before their home. There had Son been just such a picture among Lydia's films but the manager had scorned to use it for the magazine. Fashionable ladies, I am told, even when leading the simple life do not wheel their own baby carriages. That joy is reserved for the maid. I think Barbara looked more kindly on this suitor. At least I thought so till she burst in on me one day, soon after he left, and laid a familiar baby dress on my lap. "What is this, Auntie," breathed. "Your baby dress," I replied. "Oh, no," she cried, "there must be some mistake. I found it among mama's things. But mama was rich and these 4 "Are rich in the work of her own hands," I added. A low sob came to her lips. There is something infinitely appealing in the work of hands that have loved you and are still. "Tt is beautiful," she cried, "and mama's fingers made it so. But the cloth—what does it mean?" "It means that a woman loved a man, an erring man, weak and wayward. It means that she left wealth and luxury to toil by his side. For her parents cast her off and she had nothing when she went to him— nothing but her beautiful faith that her love for him would give him strength and courage to endure." "Pine resin that endures becomes amber," Barbara breathed tearfully "Pine resin that endures——" [| repeated, for the phrase seemed so peculiarly an interpretation of Shirley's life and Walt's. "It is an old Chinese legend,' Barbara explained. ''Pine resin that endures becomes amber." - "Amber! That was your mother's soul, Barbara. As clear and true and rare and beautiful as amber. And your father's too. He she 532 also endured and his trial was perhaps as hard as hers." 'Tell me about it, Auntie. Grandmother never did," she begged. "Out to a lonely cabin on an unploughed tract of land, they went that Walt might be far from his enemy when the craving grew too great for him. And when the wonderful mystery of creation was to be hers, she who had never fastened her dress or brushed her hair or worn any but the finest of fabrics fashioned by the most skillful fingers, wrote to her girlhood friends —'"send me your flour sacks, if you can spare them," she said. "We could not understand what she meant to do with them but we sent her plenty. And while Walt toiled in the field, she washed and bleached and cut and stitched by hand and embroidered the dainty dresses that were to clothe the little form for which she yearned. And she never knew that there had traveled back from town with them on one of their trips that which would have wrecked her happiness. "Walt had buried it in the field meaning to have just a little when the craving was more than he could stand. One day he came in guilty and miserable for a cup. Your mother sat by the table cutting out a little garment. Over the back ot a chair a finished one hung. And in a heap were the tell-tale sacks waiting to be cut and sewed. "Both were uncomfortable. Shirley's confusion and her attempt to conceal her sewing roused Walt's suspicion. He lifted the little garment. He looked at the uncut sacks. Outside in the field lay a keg the price of which would have meant better clothes for his baby. And suddenly your mother's tender, uncomplaining devotion, her blind, faith in him and the peril into which he had nearly plunged her, swept RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE over him. He realized that she meant to conceal them from him to save him the pain of hurt pride. "He didn't get the cup but he did catch up the ax on his way out and smash the keg into bits. And that night the little girl wife slept as she had slept before, unconscious of the final victory. That her love had won. "Your father told me it all as he sat on the floor by her dresser with the heap of baby clothes beside him and you, a little new-born infant in his arms. Both of you were crying pitifully. While in the next room lay the little mother and beside her the first baby, who slept on, unconscious of the tragedy in her little life." "Lydia," she sobbed. Only two years old." "Yes," I answered. "But grandfather and grandmother reared us and: were always good "She was to us. They must have forgiven her." "They did. In the presence of that quiet, gentle form, forgiveness was so easy. No one could have looked at Walt, broken and bowed and only half himself—without her and withheld their sympathy. Women have done big things in the world, things that could be applauded from the house tops. But somehow it has all seemed so little since I saw your father rocking you and weeping on the floor. It was something to reclaim a soul from the darkness and something to have made him love her so entirely. Her death left him so broken that he offered no resistance to anything, not even to death when it claimed him a few years later. So vour grandparents took the two little girls. And one of them merged her life with that of a man, and home and children claimed her. The other was given every opportunity AMBER to develop her marvelous voice and the world claims her. Her life belongs to it." "And if she slipped out of it tomorrow, Auntie, there would be a thousand others to take her place," Barbara took up the refrain solemnly. "And no one would miss her. Not one of all the clamoring multitude would mark her passing." "You do not understand dear, the world wants you and your beautiful voice,' ' "Do you know who makes it want me, Auntie?" "Your lovely personality, dear, and the voice." "Plus a manager who draws half my pay because he succeeds in making the public want me." "But you win them." "After he catches them, Auntie. Oh, there is a thrill! A tremendous thrill comes over me as I sing to the swelling and throbbing of countless hearts. There is intoxication in their applause. But the strain and the anxiety. First to make of oneself an instrument capable of charming the multitude. Then to hire some one whose sole business is to compel people to desire one. Then the strain of making good on each individual instance. Then going over it all again and again. And each time 'Will any one come?' And if they do, will they care to hear me again?" "But after you marry this wealthy Hartwood," I supplemented. "Things look so different to me 'since I came here and found grandpa and grandma gone and all the wealth they thought they had, dwindled to nothing. There is something so sweet in sister's life. I know she does not look well just now. But she will get stronger as the children grow older. Her hus- 533 band is so truly wrapped up in her. And the children love her so dearly. A thousand singers could take my place and I would never be missed. A million mothers could not take the place sister fills, not ever in a life time." "But she isn't accustomed to luxuries as you are." "That is true, Auntie, and for that reason she cannot know how little they can mean in a life." "And she doesn't seem to mind the work and careful management. That a small income implies," I continued. I had to do my duty by John Brookbank. To my surprise Barbara dropped her head on my knee and a low sob escaped her. "Don't you think there is anything of Walt and Shirley in me, Auntie?" It was useless. I could see she was bent on wrecking John's life and hers. I lifted the hand she laid on my knee, resigned to the disparity. Then something on the satinsmooth skin reversed my harsher judgment. It was a round, scarlet burn, familiar to every housewife. I kissed the brave stain tenderly and understood. She was learning to bake bread for John. I don't know why he came and sought her there. But there was a quick step on the walk and the doox opened and John Brookbank stood on the threshold. Both ef us looked up with our eyes full of tears but it was not me that he folded tenderly in his arms. Indeed he seemed unaware that I was there and presently I wasn't. "Pine resin," I thought to myself as I slipped quietly into the next room. "Pine resin! We are all as pine resin and some of us become amber."