Role of Emotions on Digestion and Health By Anna Page, Nutrition Specialist H! What a headache," exclaim- () ed Dick as he hung up his hat. "What's wrong?" asked Ted. "The usual thing. Bridge until 2:30 this morning.. The hostess served a rich, delicious lunch at midnight." "T suppose you had coffee too," inquired Ted. "Yes," answered Dick, "coffee always keeps me awake. I can't seem to relax afterwards. Say, my wife cooked a good breakfast this morning, Coffee, pork sausage, fried potatoes and pie, but I couldn't eat a bite." "Neither would I eat all that fried heavy indigestible food at that time in the morning. A man would have to be doing hard outdoor work to: attempt to eat that type of breakfast. And I suppose you got up late, so you tried to eat in ten minutes," remarked Ted. "Well yes, I did, you see I couldn't go to sleep until long after I went to bed. I have had a lot to worry me lately, my insurance is due and I lost some money on the stock market. Jane, my oldest daughter, wants to stop school and get married," defended Dick. "Oh, I know, the usual thing, you have been worrying about so many things you cannot help that your nerves are all jumpy, you cannot eat or sleep and have indigestion. If you do not stop you will have serious stomach trouble." How often have you heard a similar conversation? People do not realize the close connection that their State Department of Education emotions and nervous system have on digestion and health. Under our present civilized life, many people are constantly under the influence of the major emotions —fear, anger, pain and hunger. Pain, anger, fear greatly interfere with the digestive processes and may be the cause of serious disturbances. The secretion of the digestive juices by the stomach, intestines and glands are hindered by strong emotions. I'. Is not an uncommon experience for those who are subject to fits of temper to suffer from sick headaches, gas production, and mental dullness following an exhibition of emotion or temper spell. It has been asserted that the healthy person does not realize he has a heart or stomach. This is as it should be. These organs perform their functions better when we are wholly unconscious of them. Dr. Alvarez says that digestion can doubtless be upset in sensitive persons by strong emotion, fatigue, improper methods of eating and constipation, Most of these conditions can be readily controlled. Seventy-five per cent of the food problems today are due to 'poor digestion and not getting people to eat right foods at the right time. Many of the headaches, nausea and the too often feeling of being indispose are the results of indigestion and constipation. A® important rule in protecting the digestive system is to have the right atmosphere when eating. Pleasant conversation and agreeable 2 ROLE OF EMOTIONS company are necessary for the right atmosphere to promote good digestion. This makes possible the enjoyment of the food and creates the proper psychic conditions which enables the digestive system to perform its work well. The sight, odor, or thought of food starts the secretion of the digestive juices and consequently promotes the utilization of food. Foods well cooked, flavored and attractively served help to promote the secretion of the digestive juices and make digestion easier. The room should be clean, light, and well aired for the right atmosphere. Conversation at the table should be agreeable and of a very pleasant nature. Since any unpleasant emotions interfere so seriously with the digestion, it is wrong to scold children or to discuss matters relating to discipline at the table. The family table should not be the daily court for the individual offender. It is unfair to the child to discipline him at the table. One wise mother follows the rule of. Never scolding or punishing the child a few minutes before eating or at the table. At that time she does not seem to notice the misdemeanor, but after an interval of two hours or more from meal time, the hour of reckoning comes. A similar plan is recommended for other mothers, if followed they would have very satisfactory results. The table is not the place to read or discuss shocking topics that appear in the daily paper. Business affairs, especially if they involve questions which give concern, should be put aside at meal time. Wrangling at meal times, seems particularly detrimental to the digestive processes. Some wise old Jew has pointed out "Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, - minutes. 547 than a house full of feasting with strife." Eating in a hurry is a practice that is highly condemned. Everyone should have time to eat three meals a day. It does not matter whether you live to eat or eat to live, eating is one of the most important things you do. Everyone should spend at least twenty minutes, preferably thirty to forty minutes, at the table for each meal. For children, they should be required to stay at the table thirty If children are allowed to leave the table when they desire, they fform the 'habit jof trushing through their meals in order to go play. The American people are noted for their habit of hurrying. They are not taking sufficient time to eat as is shown in the following experiment. An observer stood at the entrance of a cafeteria in a large city. During the noon hour he watched the people go in, select their food, eat, and pay their bill. He found that the average time taken was eleven minutes. Probably the most important rule to follow in the protection of the digestive system is to take three well balanced meals daily at a regular time. Displeasing sights and odors inhibit the flow of digestive juices, this decreases appetite and delays digestion. It is well known that the appetite suddenly fails if bad news is received or if one is subjected to a shock such as an automobile accident. Persons who are greatly worried do not develop a desire for food, and if taken it is not well utilized. Food eaten under strain or emotion usually does not digest as quickly or as easily as does food taken under normal conditions. When one is emotionally disturbed 548 it is wise to eat but lightly or not at all. HAT is the effect that emotions have on the digestive system? Unpleasant emotions check the secretory activity of the digestive glands. The salivary glands and stomach glands are affected in the same way. Many people are familiar with the dryness of the mouth which inexperienced people suffer from when trying to address an audience. There is often sufficient fright to stop the secretion of saliva. A similar effect is produced on the other digestive glands. In the stomach the appetite juice is stimulated by sight, odor, or memory of food. This secretion may be stopped by fear, anger, or pain. These emotions interfere with the muscular action in the stomach and intestines, causing them to cease their activity which results in delayed digestion. HE stomach has the function of serving as a reservoir for the food. When the food remains in the stomach over a long period of time, bacterial growth results producing a whole array of indigestible products. Many people speak of the stomach, blaming it for many of the aches and pains they suffer from. While really the stomach is a most tolerant organ. For years it is generally either starved or overfed. It must receive and take care of all kinds of substances from milk to clay. It is stimulated by coffee, irritated by alcohol, tortured by drugs, altrenately scalded and dulled, and yet it works on, doing its best, though receiving the blame which rightfully belongs to -its owner. Some people complain of their bad stomach all their lives, while in reality the poor thing is not at fault as 'mental condition. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE it is doing its best. Its great failing is that it is too sympathetic, reflecting the troubles of its neighbors. The importance of avoiding as far as possible the states of worry and anxiety, and of not permitting grief and anger and other violent emotions to prevail unduly is not commonly appreciated by the majority of the people. These alterations in the intestinal system are so subtle that they are unknown to consciousness, but these changes have been clearly demonstrated through physiological studies. For example, in the rat any sign of distress or rage was accompanied by a total stopping of the movement of the stomach. From the work of Pavlow and Cannon we have learned of the intimate relationship that exists between the states of mind and secretion ahd motility of the intestinal tract. Disturbances in secretion of the gastric juices, either in increased or decreased amounts are noted in cases of mental strain, mental over work, anxiety, worry, hysteria, neurasthenia, melancholia, and certain physic conditions. One of the most interesting studies at the present time is the relation of intestinal abnormalities and distortions to mental diseases. It is certainly a suggestive fact that a considerable number of cases of severe intestinal disturbances are seen in the insane asylum. In one case an intestinal operation restored a man to a normal Previous to the operation he had been a frequent inmate for a number of years. Fig control of hyperacidity in a worried, fatigued individual is practically impossible. During periods of stress, worry, fatigue, and nervous excitability, it is ex- ROLE OF EMOTIONS tremely difficult to control the acid in the stomach. This may be because at such times the nervous unbalance prevents the normal relaxation and contraction of the opening between the stomach and the intestines. This means that there is not the normal mixing of the acid contents of the stomach with the alkaline contents of the intestines. The longer the food remains in the stomach, the more acid is produced, this may cause hyperacidity. It seems very important that in nervous people all conditions which produce a state of excitement should be avoided. Every effort should be made to encourage the patient and to make him as comfortable and happy as possible. Many persons whose nervous system is abused get digestive upsets, due to emotional upsets. Asa result the person audits all possible causes and effects: He then decides that one certain food caused all the disturbance. He eliminates that food from his diet, then in a few days another food 'is eliminated. 'What foods will he have left to live on? Middle aged people are apt to rule out a long list of foods because of abnormal attitudes. Very often it is not the food that is at fault, but the nervous condition that the individual is in at the time of taking the food. There is no surer way of destruction than to keep a close audit of your digestive tract. Eat a well balanced diet then let your digestive system alone. - There is a difference between physical fatigue and nervous fatigue. If you are at peace with the world with no regrets, but are physically tired you will want to stop and 'rest. Those nervously fatigued do not want to stop and rest or cannot stop and _ rest. 549 Women in particular become nervously exhausted. For example, the typical mother with a never ending round of attention to details in the home, or the too ambitious woman who likes to serve a great variety of food. Many women at the present time become so busy with clubs, social activities, or {church work that they become nervously exhausted and irritable. All this strain makes the woman more conscious of minor noises. She becomes more nervous because she loses control and cannot rest when the opportunity icomes, she shifts hands and position, fidgets, and makes many movements which makes one fatigued. She does an unnecessary amount of work. The fatigued housewife does not want to go to bed, then fusses after she goes to bed. A normal person is indifferent and goes to bed to rest. The nervous woman will find many things to worry about. But nothing is more foolish than to misuse the nervous system. Women go too far. Beyond a certain point the amount of good resulting from overwork is too small for the price the individual has to pay. Many persons tire themselves out by putting too much energy and emotion into trivial tasks. Women very often get all stirred up over little things. They review at great length painful or annoying experiences, which a more sensible person would promptly forget. American people are not taking sufficient thought to safeguard the nervous system. Sit down voluntarily and frequently. Make this a_ habit. Protect the nervous system and you protect the digestive system. Exercise, play, recreation, sleep, and relaxation help in the protection of the nervous system. Uncle Jay Helps in Understanding By Joseph Jenkins NDERSTANDING people is about the one thing that most parents don't aim todo. They will study their cows and chickens and gardens, but they will leave to good luck and the schools the job of understanding their kids." Uncle Jay was talking to himself this morning, as he did when he had a thought on his mind. He had just finished listening to Mrs. Jensen's story of ther daughter's "skipping out and getting married without saying a word to her dad or to me." "Tf that woman would just spend a little time with her children when they are young and ready to be directed, then she would not have to see her girls ignore her when they grow up. I think parents are about the most lazy things there are when it comes to their one big job; to understand and train their youngsters." U NCLE JAY was thoughtful this morning. Beth had confided in him her determination to get married, and she had _ her mother's opposition.. "But, Uncle Jay, I am going to fool her and marry Jack whether she likes it or not. She wants me to work so that I can pay back a bit of the expense I've been to her. Gosh, Uncle Jay, one would think one had to crush all one's own desires to fit in with hers. I've had to fight her all my life; ahd even in the most important thing in my life, I have to fool her because she doesn't understand me at all." Beth cried in Uncle Jay's arms, for to him she went with her troubles. Beth had been a pretty baby. She was "so like her mother." No one mentioned her father. He was quiet and thoughtful; he knew his little girl needed help. Many times she would run to him after her mother's scolding. "What's the trouble, Beth?" he would ask. "O, daddy, she says I am mean, lazy and worthless—and that I don't try to make myself useful, she does not try to see my way at all. She thinks I have no ideas. I just wish I could run to her as I run to you or Uncle Jay, to tell her my plans and dreams. But I can't, for she tells me dreamers are fools." All during Beth's youth and girlhood, she had run to Uncle Jay. The philosopher with keen insight would soothe her with his wisdom. "You want to study literature?" he would ask. "Yes, I love to follow people through their successes and failures. I like so to understand and to be understood." Her big brown eyes would look with trust up at Uncle Jay. And he would become thoughtful and say, "Would not this world be fair if we all tried to understand. Understanding people with the idea in mind of helping them is what we need. Run along now, Beth. «I need to sit and think a bit." As she neared her house, she heard her mother scolding her father. "Why don't you make that lazy girl help? Her fooling with reading and books and magazines is spoiling her. Just what kind of a house- UNCLE JAY HELPS IN UNDERSTANDING keeper will she make if she doesn't spend her time at it here?" "Why not take an interest in her likes and desires? I am sure if you did she would be happy and you would obtain her confidence. She doesn't come to you. She goes to Uncle Jay because he sees in her great possibilities. Why not try to understand Beth?" "T tell you, John Jensen, that I've been a good wife to you and that I don't like your opposing me in training the children. If you would assert yourself and make her mind me, then everything would be better. I know my way would be the thing todo. I try from morning till night to make her useful here in the house, but you and Uncle Jay just encourage her in foolishness." No, mother; if you say to try to understand Beth is foolishness, then I am foolish, But why have all the friction and gloom here when a little thought of what she likes and a bit of encouragement would bring sunshine and gladness." Mrs. Jensen became angry. She thought like many grown-ups that all wisdom centered in them. You never did try to cooperate with me. If I try to train the girl right, you do not support me at all. Why don't you make her drop her foolishness and spend her time doing things I want her to do?" Mr. Jensen became silent. He knew what cooperation meant. It meant having no ideas at all, agree- - ing with his wife in all things. Understanding, to his wife, meant one thing only, and that was to do as she said and be what she wanted one to be. To her a girl had but one mission and that was to keep a clean house, manage her husband, cook 551 his meals, and keep him from being too full of his own ideas. "How do you like my work, Uncle Jay?" Beth burst into the room. How buoyant she was! "I spend all the time I can get without mother's finding out what I am doing. I write at night when she thinks I am asleep and I get up early to spend a little time at my story. She found under my pillow one of the books you let me have; she was furious." "Never you worry, Beth. Your mother is a hard worker and she will come to see your likes and desires. Sometimes we just have to show people before they well see us at all. Perhaps you will have to show mother with some success before she will think your are doing anything worth while. Why not get your story in some magazine and then show it to her? I think she will then see a little of your ambition." "T will do it. I get so built up when I come to see you. Why do you have such a desire to help people to understand?" "Would you like to hear a story, Beth? Perhaps my little experience will help in your story. I am-living here alone and have been for a long time. Sit right over there where the light will color your curls. You remind me so much of someone who was dear to me. She had brown eyes like yours and black hair like yours, and she was full of life and vigor and ambitions. And—" T HERE was a young man," began Uncle Jay, "who lived with his parents on a farm. He had the usual run of work to do and the ordinary pastimes in which to engage. But he wanted to do big things. He 'expected to do big 552 things. He was tall and strong and assertive. He learned to play some games, but too often he wouldn't play if he couldn't have his way about everything. "He would get angry when the boys would play without him. He would go home and feel that the world was wrong. He didn't see that others had ideas of their own nor did he see that helping others with understanding was necessary if life gives happiness. He milked his cows and plowed his land for his parents. He worked hard because he had to work hard. "His father was a fighter of the gruff kind. Life to him meant grasping all things possible and working everybody hard. One day when John Reed, for that was the young man's name, desired to go to the city for an outing, he asked his father for permission but was told he could not go. 'But dad,' the boy said, 'all the boys are going and we will have a good time. I haven't been away from the farm for a long time, and I so want to spend one day in town.' " "There is too much work to do and I don't want you in town. You stay here and get that last piece plowed." With that, John's father went into the barn and John went to work. Atl during the day he resented his father's actions. He wanted to do things and see things, but his father permitted no interference with his plans and John had to conform to them. "There was not any understanding around the farm except the understanding that all were expected to have John's father's ideas and plans. "All day John felt bitter toward his father. That night he left home and went to the city. He never let RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE his father know where he was. And as for his mother, she was so much drilled in careful obedience to her husband's every wish that she had lost nearly all her individuality. John felt a bit of a pang on leaving her, but he did not see her again. "John found work in a large machine factory. Knowing farm machinery well, he soon advanced to manager in his department. He was assertive and clever and got results. That pleased his employers, and soon John was making considerable money. Social life was becoming more and more open to him. "One night at a party of workers and their families from the factory, John was introduced to a young girl of eighteen. She had dark hair and brown eyes. She had talent. She sang and danced, and wrote poetry. John saw much of her, and in time they were married. "Mary, for that was her name, brought her music and her books and her papers with her into their new home. But John wanted little of these. He expected Mary to listen to him and his plans, and have his supper always on time. He wanted to spend his and her time with his plans and his work. "When she would say, 'John, let us go to the concert to night, it will be good,' he would reply, 'Why go to hear that high-brow stuff. Let's figure out how I can advance faster in the works. How do you expect me to do big things if you suggest such ideas as that, Why I am going to be the big man in this work if: you will only cooperate with me.' "Mary was hurt by John's crudeness. The glamor of her romance had covered up his deficiences. She saw then only the tall, strong, young man and did not see him as he really UNCLE JAY HELPS IN UNDERSTANDING was. Mary cried when she went to her room. She so wanted to hear the concert. But she couldn't enjoy~ it now. John did not understand her music and reading. She was beginning to perceive that he saw only machinery as a means to power and prestige. H® books, Mary read by herself. She did not mention them -so, frequently as _ before. At one time she spoke of her favorite poem from Tennyson, and was so pained by 'Oh why. Don't you throw that stuff out of the window and tend to your home?' from John that she did not bring up for conversation anything pertaining to her work again. When we see things we hold most dear and from which we obtain pleasure made light of, then the door to our heart's garden closes against the intruder. "John drove himself hard to reach his end. He would take no suggestions from his wife. She was but a help in his scheme. He spent most of his time at the factory and made a big success of his department. At home his mind would not be on Mary, or on her long days alone. She to him was becoming his mother over again. "But she wasn't becoming his mother over again; She was working in her garden of music and verse all alone. She did not permit him to enter the sacred door. She gave him his meals and kept his home for him, but John was unconscious of the gulf widening between them as he lost himself entirely in his work, "A year passed and a beautiful little girl was born to them. John was at the factory when the call. Came, but he was too busy to go home. The baby came and Mary 553 thought, 'Surely he will now begin to understand others.' The baby had brown eyes like her mother's and long, black hair. John did not see this when he came home. 'Well Mary, I am in line for another promotion; some husband you have.' "Promotion! Yes that is all he sees. He didn't even see his own baby when he came in. Oh, if he could only know that understanding others is important to happiness. Mary crawled a little farther into her private garden, and waited—as women down the ages have waited. "John did take some notice of his baby. He would hold it in his arms, but Mary could see that his mind was on the factory." Here Uncle Jay stopped, a tear glistening in his eyes, and his head seemed to fall low on his chest. The wind from the window ruffled his graying hair. Beth did not move. She wanted to hear the story further and so she waited. He came back, smiling a little, and said "If only young men were trained to understand others and their ambitions with the idea of helping, then mothers would be happier and the children would confide more in their parents. John was trained to be arid to see only John. He coud not enter the garden of others; he could not understand." "The baby grew fast. But Mary and the little girl were alone most of the time. They went to concerts and lectures without him. Busy with his plans and ambitions, he did not have time to share with his wife and her plans. He was too much like other men and women _ who live entirely within themselves instead of giving themselves and thereby finding happiness through helping others. "One night just twelve years 554 ago—" Uncle Jay stopped, arose, and walked across the room. He wiped his eyes and spent a little time looking out the window across the large valley filled with shadows. It was nearly evening. As he turned to come back across the room to Beth, she saw a look of deep sadness on his face. She arose to go. She felt he was living too vividly his life over. Waving her to her chair he continued. "Twelve years ago John came home rather late from his meetings. He was unusually jubilant. He had money, position, and power in the business world, and he smiled as he opened his front door. As was his habit, he went into his room to change his clothes and take a bath. Then he went into the dining room, sitting down in his chair before the fireplace to await dinner. He waited and waited. He became restless and then went to look for Mary. He called but she did not answer. Where could she be? He went into her room. He squared his shoulders and looked at himself in the mirror of her dresser. He glanced down and there on top of the dresser he saw an envelope. He carried the letter to the dining room."