[Vol55 | February 1968 | Page 127 | Poetry | My Glasses Lucy | Woolley Jones]

The Home—Inside and Out

Church and school programs, many changes come to this family. And she watched the courtships and falling in love of those same young people, and even some of their wedding receptions.

The family parlor became the social center of the town, and Old Goldie could have told of the cultural growth of both the town and its people. Fine plays and light operas were learned and rehearsed in her presence. Wedding and graduation dresses were fitted before Old Goldie, and she reflected back a radiant happiness, as the wearer turned away to face a new life.

Old Goldie couldn't speak, but she gave to each an honest, direct answer when he stood before her for self-analysis. There were times when selfish, angry defiance was hurled into her face. But she hung quiet, looking at the irate speaker with his own eyes until the storm was spent, and the eyes, first, stared at what she silently showed them, then dropped. Unable to face his own inner reflections, each child would turn and walk away to seek solitude and meditate on Old Goldie's sermon.

Yes, Old Goldie watched seventy years of growth and

Now, the one to whom she had been given as a gift so many years ago, lay in her casket within an arm's length of her beloved old mirror. The children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren came, by the score, to bid farewell to Grandma, and to visit the old house for the last time. Old Goldie seemed to hang desolate and untouched by the crowd, as she looked down upon her dear mistress. Would all the stories locked in her memories ever be released and told? She appeared dull and tired and seemed to say, "Dear old friend, we have had a long, eventful life together. Now you will be laid to rest, and this old house will be torn down, but what will become of me?"

Then a man's voice was heard to say, "No, John; true, I am the oldest, but my family are all married and gone. You have a big family of growing children at home yet. So you take Old Goldie home with you to help you to rear those children right."

It might have been the afternoon sun slanting across the room that made Old Goldie look so bright and alive again.

FOR EXAMPLE
Kathryn Kay

What else is there to do
                except stop crying,
regard myself, with faith restrengthening—
what's life itself except continued trying?
For instance, look at winter . . . look at spring!

127

DOUBLE-DUTY APRON
Shirley Thulin

A new apron has been designed, and it is a dandy! It does double duty and is so versatile you will find it a great bazar item.

This apron is practical, of floral cotton on one side, with a big serviceable pocket. It is just right for the cooking chores. Then, when the food is all on the table and the family or company are seated, quick as a wink turn the apron about, and you have a fancy apron, pretty while serving.

The fancy side is made of organdy or nylon which has no right or wrong side to it. It should be sheer enough to show the flowers of the other fabric through. A dainty pocket edged in lace completes the fanciness, and no one will realize you still have the same apron on!

TO MAKE

Using your favorite little front apron pattern, cut one complete pattern of the bright floral cotton. This fabric should have no wrong or right side, or at least the flowers should be fairly bright on the wrong side. If your pattern does not have a good-sized pocket, then cut a pocket pattern out of paper first. Now sew the pocket on, but not the ties or the band.

Cut the organdy apron, but there is no need to cut another band or another set of ties. Cut a daintier pocket and sew lace or eyelet around it. Stitch it to the organdy apron front.

Now, placing the sheer fabric on top of the right side of the floral fabric, machine stitch the two aprons together all around the apron, leaving it open across the top. Trim the seams to ¼ inch and turn right side out and press. Now sew the band and the ties on as you would for any apron.

[ILLUSTRATION: Two apron designs shown side by side - one labeled "PLAIN" showing a floral pattern with a square pocket, and one labeled "FANCY" showing a more delicate design with a heart-shaped pocket with lace trim]

128
