ESCALANTE AND HIS PIONEER BAND 547
great, no desert too parched, no wilderness too bleak to deter them from their great purpose. Mistaken in their zeal though some may think them to be, none can question their integrity and faith. Of such calibre were Silvestre Valez de Escalante and Francisco Atanasio Dominguez, who with their little band of ten were the first white men to enter Utah valleys.
While the original purpose of the expedition as officially organized was to discover a more direct route from New Mexico to Monterey, California, the moving passion of the fathers was the salvation of souls—the souls of the Indians around Utah Lake.
Another feature of more than passing interest is the amazing accuracy with which the Escalante Journal was kept. This is a model for anyone who is keeping family records, journals or
SILVESTRE AND JOAQUIN TWO INDIAN GUIDES POINTING THE WAY INTO THE UTAH LAKE REGION
diaries. The distances, measured in leagues by the pace of a mule, tallied almost exactly with the speedometer on the Dodge car. The country was described with such vividness and exactness of detail that Dr. Bolton, journal in hand, could identify every mile of the route. As illustration of the exactness of the journal descriptions, various interesting points might be noted. One of the most striking was Indian paintings on the cliffs down Douglass canyon**
*The writer, in company with D. W. Parratt of Salt Lake, and son Spencer, spent a week with Dr. Bolton tracing the Escalante party from near Montrose, Colorado, to Green River, Utah.


some twenty miles above the present town of Rangeley, Colorado. Escalante described these paintings one hundred and fifty years ago and described their location so precisely—half way down Douglass canyon on the south side of the road—that they were easily found and photographed on the recent trip of the Bolton party previously referred to (footnote reference). After this long lapse of time, the paintings were plainly visible, being protected from the weather by great overhanging rocks. All along the route equal care was taken in giving unmistakable descriptions of physical features, color of the mountains and hills, character of the flora—scrub oaks, tall pines, black poplars, etc., as the case might be—so that physical identification was unmistakable.
One hundred and fifty years seem to have made but little difference in the "everlasting hills;" they look very much the same as then in color, formation, flora, etc. Even poplar trees then growing still remain. Imagination is stirred with romantic revival of the Escalante camp as the present Dudley's ranch on Green River near Jensen, where the black double cottonwood trees that shaded the fathers September 13 and 14, 1776, still stand in all their majesty. Some of them are eight feet through at the butt and give evidence of being two hundred years old or more. These were described with unerring accuracy. And thus this remarkable journal describes all the country traversed in the five months' (July 29, 1776—January 2, 1777) continuous wandering of this noted company.
Several matters not definitely established before have been permanently fixed by the recent surveys made by Dr. Bolton. Historians have brought Escalante into the Utah Lake region by various routes. Bancroft and the older school had him come down Provo canyon. Dean Harris* took him as far south as Indianola. The facts are, after coming through Strawberry he came up Mud Creek over the divide into Diamond Fork passing through hot springs and later three other hot springs, now called Castilla and thus down Spanish Fork river to the valley and lake below.
There can be no attempt in this article to detail events connected with the journey through Utah and back to Santa Fe. Suffice it to say that two wonderful days for the padres and Indians were spent in Provo, and visions of future settlements were projected. Although Salt Lake was not visited, accurate information was recorded concerning it. The route to Monterey and San Francisco was not found, but a great feat of exploration was achieved.
*The Catholic Church in Utah: see article on Escalante.