The Ten Commandments By Phyllis Hodgson Oh, worship no God but the Father in heaven, And make ye no image to kneel at its feet; Be its likeness in earth or in sea. Or in heaven, The Lord such presumption with vengeance shall meet. Oh, hallow the name of the Father in heaven, And take not the name of thy Lord God in vain. Remember the Sabbath, to keep it most holy, And honor the parents that bore thee in pain. Oh, take not the life of thy brethren around thee, For God is the giver and taker of life, But keep thee most chaste and commit no adultery, For laws not obeyed bring but sorrow and strife. Ye never shall take what belongs to your brother, And never false witness against him shall tell, For he that betrayeth the faith of his brother, He loseth his faith in his brother as well. Oh, cleanse thee thy spirit from lust and from envy, That all thought of coveting you may dispel, And keep thee so pure that within thee forever The Spirit of God may unceasingly dwell. The Great Inspiration THANKSGIVING STORY By Lilith Shell I. The Reverend Charles Lamar paused a moment on the Post Office steps while he glanced over the mail in his hand. Beside him was his six-year-old son Heber, keenly interested not only in the proceedings of his father but in the varied pageant of the town's life, as he observed it from his elevated position. As the minister completed his perusal of the papers in his hands and was stepping down to the street, the boy close beside him, the public school nurse, passing by, recognized him and, turning, detained him for a moment. "I wonder," she said, and there was a note of apology in her voice, "I just wonder if I could again ask you to stop and see one of the town's very poor families?" "Why, yes, certainly, if I can do anything for them," the minister answered. "I'll gladly do what I can. Who is it?" "The Pappodocias family down on the river front," the nurse said, and taking a scrap of paper from her bag she scribbled an address upon it and gave it to the minister. "Just what is the condition there?" he asked. "The father's ill,?will never be well again,?is doomed, in fact. Neither of the parents can speak any English and the family is really destitute. Perhaps your church could give them some material aid," the nurse suggested. "Well, I'll see what can be done," the minister promised and the nurse passed on. "Are you going there right now, father?" Heber asked. "Yes, I might as well," his father replied. "You skip along home and I'll be there pretty soon." "Oh, father, please, can't I go with you? I want to see a des'tute fam'ly," Heber begged.. "We?I-l," hesitated the minister, "well, all right, come along. We'll be there only a few minutes anyway." Among the hovels on the river front the two came at last to the door they sought. A girl of Heber's age let them in. There, huddled miserably in two gloomy rooms, lived the Pappodocias family, late from Greece, and in the direst poverty and distress. None of the minister's efforts to secure information from the frightened children, nor his offers of assistance were lost upon Heber. Silent he stood but, keenly alert to all that passed, he gathered THE GREAT INSPIRATION as much information in his way, as did the minister in his. When they were about to go the boy slipped his fingers into his pocket and drawing out two gayly colored and highly treasured glass marbles he passed them to the two younger children who seized them avidly. Then seeing the look of disappointment upon the face of the older little girl who had witnessed this passage of gifts he again searched his pockets and producing a small linen handkerchief, slightly mussed, he gave it to her. All this swiftly and silently and behind his father's back. "Too bad, too bad," the minister muttered as they left the place. " Something must be done." "I could do something for them, father, couldn't I? Heber demanded. "What could you do, son?" "I could give that little boy my overcoat," and lifting his shoulders proudly and expanding his chest he declared, "I?m so big and hearty, I don't need it,?prob'ly not all winter." "Oh, no, son," the minister laughed. 'You don't need to give them your overcoat. We'll manage something else for them." "But they make me so sad," said the child and there was a sob in his throat and tears in his eyes. "I shouldn't have let him go there," the man chided himself, then, to the boy, "Never mind, son. You don't need to worry about them. We'll get something done for them. You just forget all about it." II Then came Thanksgiving. When Heber, home from school on Wednesday, burst into the kitchen he found his mother and Aunt Nell busily preparing for the festivities of the next day. Upon the table lay a mighty turkey, its legs sticking awkwardly into the air. Cooling upon a sheet of brown paper was a mountain of spicy, brown cookies. A peep into the pantry revealed a great white cake laden with shredded cocoanut, and Aunt Nell was spreading chocolate upon another, and there were four mince pies ranged upon the radiator shelf. "Oh, boy!" shouted Heber. "Hurrah for Thanksgiving day. Will it be Thanksgiving day when I wake up in the morning, mother?" "Yes, dear," his mother answered, "tomorrow's Thanksgiving. Now you run upstairs and visit with grandma, and don't bother mother and Auntie.". III The town opened its eyes on Thanksgiving day to its first snow of the winter, and there was a biting north wind. The minister's family were busily arranging to get the dinner well under way by ten o'clock so they might attend the Thanksgiving service - 
 at the church. At breakfast it was decided that Heber should be allowed to remain at home with Grandma Lamar who was confined to her room with rheumatism. This plan suited Heber admirably for no amount of ritual and ceremony in the church could compensate for the hour-and-a-half of sitting still there. So the adults of the family at last took their departure, leaving Heber to "look after Grandma." This he did for a few minutes, but when Grandma began to doze in her chair by the fire, Heber sought entertainment elsewhere?and found it. From one of the broad front windows he looked out upon the snow covered world. Presently there appeared in his field of -vision two children whom he recognized as the Pappodocias sister and brother, Astyages and Androcoles, to whom he had given his glass marbles. Rushing to the front door he swung it open and invited them in and the next moment four little feet were stamping snow from four ragged shoes in the immaculate front hall of the manse. Into the dining room they went, leaving marks of black little fingers upon the snowy cloth spread ready for dinner; into the kitchen they went, two little noses sniffing greedily the savory odors there. "This is going to be our Thanksgiving dinner,? Heber explained, indicating the various evidences of preparation. "Wha's zat?" demanded Androcoles Pappodocias. "Why, Thanksgiving day, you know, when you have turkey, and cake, and mince pies, and everything," Heber said; then, as an afterthought, added?"don't you have a turkey for Thanksgiving dinner?" Two mystified heads were shaken sadly while two pairs of big black eyes rested hungrily upon the mighty white cake. "Don't you have a cake, either?" demanded Heber. Again the two. Heads shook a doleful negative, and suddenly Heber had a vision of what poverty can really mean. "Say?l'll give you ours," he cried. "We don't need it." His first intention included only the cake but since it was too large for the children to carry home safely it became necessary for him to bring his wagon from the basement. In this the cake looked so small that Heber cast about for something to fill the gaping spaces.