Welcome Your Tasks
By President Louise Y. Robison
IN brief terse statements the Prophet Joseph Smith gave to the world some of the most stimulating ideas ever given mankind. Having positive knowledge that spiritual progression depends upon effort, one can almost hear the Prophet's stirring voice when he said, "And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come;" and at another time, "The glory of God is intelligence."
We have been given the ideal pattern of life through the earthly mission of our Savior, who taught us that service to humanity is the way through which we might have "life more abundantly". Life compels us to some action by the necessity of humanity to eat and sleep, but we have our free agency in deciding the quality of our endeavor and the manner in which we accomplish these obligations. Opportunity for service, by which we gain knowledge, is all around us, but earnest effort is imperative if we rise above the mediocre in any endeavor. If as earnest attempts were made in helping solve the problems of underprivileged children, of making happier homes, and of giving courage to the heavy-laden, as are made in material inventions over which men plan and give their best thought, there would be fewer discouraged people. It is certainly as necessary to put our best effort into building lives as into material inventions which may be discarded in a few years' time, while souls are eternal.
In all ages strong people have helped the weaker ones. Many women, without special calling, have given their time and effort for the benefit of neighbors and communities. Since Relief Society was organized, however, women have been called to definite fields of service and have been set apart to those positions by men holding the Priesthood of God. This gives greater opportunity for development, but it also brings corresponding responsibility which cannot be met by haphazard service. There is no easy road to success in any position—from member to president; each activity calls for thoughtful, prayerful consideration. Sister Amy W.