Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. 
Editorial and Business Office:

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from From a Schoolroom Window, by Bernice Ames.) ===
Included, also, is a brief commentary describing and analyzing the selections. The record is packaged in an album, with label and dust jacket, price $3.50 postpaid, and may be obtained from the Media Development and Marketing Department, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84601. (See advertisement on page 719 of this issue of the Magazine.) Creek in Autumn Ethel Jacobson Tumbling from distant heights, The creek careens and lurches, Roistering on its way Between the copper birches. Where burnished trunks bend low, White water swirls and falls, And a tawny chipmunk chatters And a tanager Calls; And the spendthrift, hurrying stream Flings largesse left and right, When autumn rains down birch leaves, New-penny bright. 669 RS w A spring garden, like anything worthwhile, needs some foresight, intelligence, and a bit of work. For the experienced gardener and for the best results, the planning for next year's garden commences when this year's garden is in bloom. At that time a person can see the successes and failures and plan _ accordingly. Then, too, it is necessary to start early to get the plants ready. Even with bulbs, it is advisable to order in May or June, if one is to be sure of getting what he wants at good prices. Also, with other plants for a spring garden, it is necessary to get them underway before summer is too far advanced. For example, if you are going to use pansies or violas, which are generally next to bulbs, as the main feature of a spring garden, then the seed must be ordered and planted before mid-July. If you are going to use primroses in next year's garden, then you should start to divide the plants after they are through blooming. So a it is usually good to plan about a year ahead. However, if you are one who has not started until now, do not despair. If you take a few definite steps at once you can get along very well. Preparing for a Springtime Garden Irvin T. Nelson Director of Landscaping

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from The Fabric of Our Years Pearle M. Olsen) ===
The ' Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 'Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25. Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany al! Orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7:.1.05 Zone 4:..65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 —_ = DESERET FREws PREsS Tour the Holy Land This Fall Vie Pan American Jet TOUR LEAVES OCTOBER 7th Murdock Travel's annual Fall tour of the ever inspiring Holy Land provides you with 21 days of high quality, worry-free travel. You are assured of luxury travel on Pan American jet clippers and superb accommodations in the finest hotels... All at unusually low cost! The tour includes all of the Holy Land as well as places such as Istanbul, Cairo, Athens, and Rome. W. Cleon Skousen, Tour Director Mr. Skousen is a foremost L. D. S. Authority on the Holy Land and the author of several successful books. Among these are: So You Want to Raise a Boy? The First Two Thousand Years, and The Third Thousand Years. Wees eceoceecrer eer eer esereecse ores eeeeEeTEeeoeC eV EVE VEU EEE. MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101, Phone 328-3161 PLEASE SEND ME FULL PARTICULARS ON THE FALL TOUR OF THE HOLY LAND. MURDOCK I Address TRA VEL City 0 State.
