NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Stowe continues to receive $1,500 a
year royalties on "Uncle Tom's Cabin."
	Rev. E. P. Roe, the well-known clergyman
and story writer, died suddenly at Cornwall-on-
the-Hudson on the 20th of July.
	Emperor William of Germany has agreed
to the proposal that his mother should bear
the titles of Empress and Queen Frederick.
	Pundita Ramabai was welcomed before she
entered San Francisco by a committee who met
her en route, and was given a reception on her
arrival.
	Thirty years ago, on August 5, 1858, there
flashed under the waves of the Atlantic, from
Newfoundland to Ireland, the first unbroken
current of electricity.
	Amalie Rives says that she does not smoke
cigarettes, does not receive men in her bowers
of roses and couldn't jump a five-barred gate
if she would.
	The Paris Exposition will open on May 5th,
1889. General W. B. Franklin, the American
Commissioner general to that Exposition, has
opened the United States Government's office at
No. 35 Wall Street, New York.
	The Sunday Chronicle San Francisco, re-
sents Mrs. Howe's astonishment at the "intel-
lectual level" of her California audi-
ences, which she said in printed correspondence
was higher than I had dared to hope."
	Miss A. L. Wilson, general manager of The
San Francisco Breeder and Sportsman, is one
of the best-informed persons in America on
the pedigrees and history of trotting horses.
She is also an able writer on turf matters gener-
ally.
	The highest classical honor in the London
University has this year for the first time fallen
to a woman, Miss Mary Louise Worley, of
Girton College, who gained the gold medal in 
classes at the annual examination for the M. A.
degree.
	A Parisian Duchess has bettered Sarah
Bernhardt's tiger cub by adopting a real
panther as a pet. She keeps it in a long cage,
and gives it sun and air on the veranda, where
she feeds it herself, stroking it through the
bars of the cage as she does so.
	A case involving the right of women to hold
office in Iowa has just been decided. Miss
Ella S. Brown was an independent candidate
for the office of superintendent of public
schools and being counted out declared a con-
test The special count showed that she was 
elected. Then the other party appealed on
the ground that a woman lacks the right to
contest for office, but Judge Weaver held that
she has the right and the case was decided in
Miss Brown's favor.—Ex

[Column 2]

	If I did not believe in women voting, I
would never lusten to their advice; and I give 
it as a life's experience that the only serious
mistakes I have made have been when I did
not take the advice of one of the sweetest
women that ever lived. An individual whose
advice on political questions is good, should
at least have the privelege of putting it into prac-
tice.—Geo. R. Scott.
	There are men who dislike to hear anything
in favor of women voting, because they then
"Lose their softness." Women are "too fine for
anything so coarse as politics," they say; but it
never offends them to see women down on their
hands and knees scrubbing out men's dirty
offices. They are not too fine for that. If the
"pool of politics" be any dirtier than their
floors, I for one am not aware of it. Whenever
I see the scrub women toiling away, I think of
these thoughtful souls who want to protect
women from everything save work too menial
for men to perform,—New North West.
	Mrs. Harriet G. Brooks died June 27th, after
a painful illness. Mrs. Brooks was prominent
in the early stages of the women's suffrage
movement in Michigan from 1856 onwards.
She was for years secretary of the local and 
state suffrage associations, and during the years
of her residence in Chicago she attended the
meetings of the National Association at Wash-
ington. During her subsequent residence in
Nebraska she continued her active work, and
in 1882 she pleaded for women's suffrage before
the legislature of the state. She was also a
leader in other social questions, and was en-
gaged in literary pursuits. her loss will be
widely felt by a large circle of friends.—Ex.


