								RICHARD REALF.


[Column 1]
﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
WE have on hand considerable matter for
the paper, that has to be laid over for want of
space. In our next issue we shall publish
“The Women of Utah,” Part IV, “Women in
Medicine;” also the poem,“The Cross of Light,”
and some other R. S. Y. L. and P. A. reports, 
Correspondence, etc. 
	THE conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, on Thursday, September 13th, and a
punctual attendance of presidents and officers
is earnestly desired. On Friday, the 14th, the
Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake will hold confer-
ence, and on Saturday, the 15th, the Primary
Associations will assemble in the Assembly
Hall for their conference. 
	THE secretaries of the Salt Lake Stake
Relief Society are hereby officially notified
to send in their semi-annual reports, so that
the Stake Secretary may receive them as early
as the 25th of this month (August). Direct
the reports to the Office of the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT, as it will possibly avoid delay. The
reports are wanted for the Salt Lake
Conference, on the 1st and 2nd of September.
By order of the President of the Relief Society
of the Salt Lake Stake, M. Isabella Horne. 
	ON Tuesday, the 14th inst., a party of the
friends of Sister Elizabeth Howard drove out
to her old home in Cottonwood to give her a
“surprise,” and it was indeed a genuine one;
she had not an inkling of the fact, though she
had noticed extra preparations going on in the
grove just by, but was told there was to be a
meeting held there on the 15th, which was
true, also. Carriage after carriage drove up,

[Column 2}
until, finally, her daughter, Sister Brockbank,
thought it time to send for her mother, who
was away, by the suggestion of interested 
parties. Some of those who assembled on the
occasion had not been there for many years,
and others had never visited there, though it
used to be a very popular resort in days gone
by. The party gathered together in the grove,
which, by the by, is a very pleasant place for a
picnic. Here a very long table or tables were
set with fine linen, china, glassware and silver,
as well as flowers, and the guests brought all man-
ner of good things in their lunch baskets, until
the table fairly “groaned with the weight of the
feast.” Meantime, every one was congratulat-
ing Sister Howard and sympathizing with her,
too, for she is suffering with a sprained ankle,
and old friends were greeting each other and
conversing on topics of social and general in-
terest, and all was going on swimmingly for a
time; the guests, fifty or more, were seated at
the long table under the shade of the great tall
poplars, that kept sighing and whispering over-
head, seemingly unconscious of the eating and
drinking and conversation of the happy party.
Apostle F. D. Richards was seated at the head
of the table, and pronounced the blessing on
the food. At the extreme end of the table
from him, was President Angus M. Cannon,
and Elder Joseph Horne. Scattered along
were a few men, but the company was mostly
composed of ladies, and a very jovial company
they were. Sister Howard seemed to enjoy
the affair very much, but behold a change
—just when partaking of ice cream, which had
been made expressly for the occasion, and while
the trees were only sighing in a gentle breeze—
all at once a dark cloud came up and the wind
blew fiercely, dust came in clouds, and the rain
began to fall; the guests beat a hasty retreat
from the grove to the shelter of the house, and
immediately horses were brought out, water-
proofs were in demand, and the pleasure-seekers
began driving homeward, the rain pouring,
lightning flashing, thunder crashing, but all
reached home safely. Thus ended our surprise,
and we wondered, after all, which was the most
surprised, the hostess, or the guests that were
caught in the storm. Joking aside, the How-
ard grove at Cottonwood is a charming place
for a picnic.


