CAMPAIGN POETRY ABOUT MRS.
			CLEVELAND.
	Mrs. Sarah M. P. Pratt, who has written
some rather graceful poetry, is the author of
the ambitious campaign ode to Mrs. Cleveland,
published among free trade essays in Belford's
Magazine, and reproduced in The Sun a few
days ago.   The general theme is that no
crowned Queen in Europe is fairer or personal-
ly more charming than Mrs. Cleveland. We
do not think that any American will dispute
the proposition; but Mrs. Piatt’s verses, con-
sidered as poetry, are  not beyond criticism:
	"Queens may be fair, even in the cruel sun.
		Of this our day,  But runge them in a row;
	  One wears a rose of England—wtthering. One
		Outglitters Russia's snow."
	The idea of ranging the queens in a row, in
the cruel sun of July, for purposes of compari-
son, is harsh and mechanical.  The idea of 
Queens in a row, without reference to the 
weather, suggests some grotesque associations,
far removed from those which Mrs. Piatt had
in mind. Then ensues a catalogue of Queens,
beginning with Victoria of the withered rose
and ending thus:
	"One hides a girl's face in Spain's widow veil.
		One, who loves VIRGIL'S song has but to stir,
	  Or lift her golden head, and the nightingale
		Sings out his heart to her."
	The allusion, we suppose, is to the gifted 
Pauline Elizabeth Ottillie Louise of Roumania,
who, like Mrs. Piatt, writes for the magazines
at the usual rates of compensation, and who
contributed a poem to Brother Henry C.
Bowen's recent celebration of the glorious
Fourth at Woodstock, Conn.  But it is hardly


fair to compare Pauline Elizabeth Ottillie
Louise with the President's wife; she is more
in Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland's line. Hav-
ing ranged all the available Queens in a row,
Mrs. Piatt bids Mrs. Cleveland stand up:

	"Go, if you will, among them all and stand,
		With just a mountain wild flower in your hair,
	With just the wedding ring on your light hand 
		The nation bids you wear.

	"Then from the Elysian Fields call PARIS back;
		'Say who shall have the golden apple—who?'
	Though Europe, armed, should follow in his track
		He'd throw it straight to you."

	The suggestions contained in these final
stanzas are decidedly unpleasant, even were it
supposable that Paris, after his experience as
judge in one prize competition of female love-
liness, would ever consent to return from the
Elysian Fields to undertake the responsibility
of another award.
	Mrs. Piatt's poetical conceit is in gross viola-
tion of good taste, and we must say that her
verses are as far as possible from being the
right sort of lyric praise for so sensible, modest,
matter-of-fact, and truly American a woman as
Mrs. Cleveland.
	By all means let the poets continue to cele-
brate the admirable qualities of Mrs. Cleve-
land; but let it be done in a manner which her
own good sense would approve. There is no
need of standing the crowned queens of
Europe up in a row, with the mature Victoria
at the head of the line, and still less of bring-
ing Paris back from his present abiding place
in Sheol.
	Moreover, it was not the nation that bid
Mrs. Cleveland wear her wedding ring. She
was elected by Grover Cleveland and by him
alone, although the nation sincerely and sym-
pathetically approved of Mr. Cleveland's
choice. and ever since has held the subject of
Mrs. Piatt's hothouse verses in herty esteem
and respectful affection.—The Sun.


