EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE INDUSTRIALIST, a monthly magazine, pub-
lished at Provo, has been improved and enlarged.
It contains many excellent things upon farming,
gardening and domestic matters, and encourages
in its columns the building up of home-interests
in every department of home-produce and home-
manufacture.  This is the kind of principles to
teach, as well as to practise, if Utah is ever to be-
come self-sustaining.  Such a paper as the Indus-
trialist is likely to find favor with the people, and a 
broad sphere for its circulation, especially among
those who depend upon manual labor for their 
support, and who are looking to the success of
home-productions, and the increase of home pat-
ronage for the prosperity of Utah.
	THE SANITARIAN, recently started in this city,
and edited by the Drs. Shipp, is certainly a very
creditable medical journal, and each issue has 
valuable papers upon some one or more of the 
various topics now being discussed by scientists
as relating to health and hygiene.  If there is 
any new light upon the science of life and how to
prolong it, or get more enjoyment out of it, and
how to preserve the little ones from the power of
the destroyer, how to live in perfect harmony with
the laws of nature, the Latter-day Saints should
avail themselves of every opportunity to obtain
such knowledge.  No doubt the editors will make
a point of keeping up with all the new and ap-
proved methods of medical and surgical attain-
ments in the profession, and keep pace with the 
times.  Mothers would do well to read and digest 
all that pertains to maternity, and also to attend
lectures upon these subjects, that they may be-
come well informed upon matters so important
and so essential to their own health and happi-
ness and that of their posterity.
	MISS DAISIE D. WOODS returned from Boston,
Saturday, July 21st, where she had been the past
year studying music, vocal and instrumental, at
the New England Conservatory.  Her teachers
speak highly of her ability, and predict for her a 
brilliant success in the profession, if she perseveres
in the work.  Prof. Daniels, one of the vocal
teachers there, who visited Salt Lake shortly be-
fore her return home, gave her mother and friends
here, every encouragement as to her voice and
taste, and what she might yet accomplish in music,
as well as her dramatic talent, which he thinks ex-
cellent.  Miss Woods has formed many pleasant
friendships with the pupils at the Conservatory,
and speaks in the highest praise of the institution

[Column 2]
and its management in all its departments.  She
appreciates the opportunities given the students
to hear lectures by famous people, both men and 
women, and tells us how much she enjoyed hear-
ing Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, who seems to have
impressed her greatly, and other noted women 
speakers.  She paid a visit to the Quaker poet
John G. Whittier, who showed her his favorite
trees at Oak Knoll, and told her how much he ad-
mired and would like to see the Rocky Moun-
tains, if his age would permit him to travel.
She also visited Plymouth with a large party of 
the students, Longfellow's home, Hawthorne's 
haunts in Salem, brought home pictures of the
"house with seven gables," and several other
places famed in the legends of New England.
At vacation Miss Daisie went up into the country
among the hills, and wandered over the old farms
and through the woods redolent of pine and hem-
lock, of which her grandmother had told her so 
often, and she realized that it was, indeed, very
beautiful, but her own home was still more fair, as
well as more dear, and she was charmed on her
return to behold once more the grand-old moun-
tains, always associated with her thoughts of home
and loved ones.
	THE DESERET UNIVERSITY, with its facilities
for education, its modern improvements, the de-
lightful grounds, and the suitable situation, en-
closed, as it is, and shaded on all sides, is, indeed,
a desirable locality for such an institution.  It has
the advantage, also, of an able Faculty, and ought
to rank high as a seat of learning.  Officers of the
Board of Regents are reliable men of note in the
Territory, and the Chancellor is Orson F. Whit-
ney, well and favorably known in the interests of
education.  The Officers of the Board, beside the
Chancellor, Secretary, Treasurer, Executive Com-
mittee of three, Visiting Committee, Library and 
Museum Committee, Building Committee.  Faculty
and Board of Instruction: John R. Park, M. D.,
President, Natural Science; Joseph B. Toronto,
Registrar, Mathematics and History; Joseph T.
Kingsbury, Physics and Chemistry; Orson How-
ard, A. M., Natural Science and English Litera-
ture; Joshua A. Paul, Elocution and Geography;
Henry C. White, A. B., Principal of Deaf Mute
Department; Geo. M. Ottinger, Free Hand Draw-
ing and Painting; Evan Stephens, Vocal Music;
H. M. Schmidt-Wartenberg, Ph. D., Latin and 
German; Hon. J. G. Sutherland, Law; Wm. M.
Stewart, Pedagogies; Don Carlos Young, C. E.,
Architecture and Mechanical Drawing; Alfred
Andre, French; Orson Pratt, Piano and Organ;
Willard E. Weihe, Violin; Florence Crandell,
Assistant Deaf Mute Department; John M.
Whittaker, Phonography; Milton H. Hardy, M.
D., Physician to Deaf Mute Department, and
Librarian.  The academic year is divided into
four terms of ten weeks each.  The first term will
begin September 3rd and end November 9th;
second term begin November 12th and close
January 25th; third term begin January 28th and
end April 15th; fourth term begin April 17th and
close June 14th.  Vacation recess will be, Thanks-
giving—Winter Holidays, ten days, including
Christmas and New Year's.  The Annual of the
University gives a very general account of its
history, from the time when the institution was
founded.  The first meeting of the first Board of 
Regents was held March 13, 1850, and on the
second Monday in the November following, the
University was open for the admission of students.
There is much of interest connected with the past
history of the University of Deseret, that is given
briefly in the Circular.  The institution has had a 
hard struggle in the past, although many teachers
have been thoroughly educated there, but at the
present time indications are much more favorable
to the requirements necessary for a classical
course than formerly.  Dr. Park and others, who
have labored so diligently heretofore, must feel
more gratified with the present condition.


