RETURN HOME.

	On the 12th of May ult., Sister M. Isabella
Horne, of this city, left home on a visit to her
native land. She was accompanied by one of
her sons, and also by her sister, Mrs. Harriet
Ellis, of Bountiful. They sailed from New
York, after a pleasant overland trip, on the
steamer Circassia. The voyage was a delight-
ful one, and Sister Horne tells us she met a
number of agreeable people, with whom she
conversed, en route, on the condition of this
people and their principles of belief.
	The steamship arrived in Glasgow on the 30th,
having been eleven days and four hours at sea.
At Glasgow they visited the Grand Exposition
open there, and afterwards went to Edinboro,
where they visited places of interest, then on
to Liverpool. Mrs. Horne speaks of her voyage
up the Clyde as a most charming experience.
From Liverpool Mrs. Horne went to Notting-
ham, where she attended meetings of the
Saints, and had the privilege of addressing
them, both in the general meetings of the Saints
and in the meetings of the Relief Society.
After visiting Nottingham, she went on to
London, and shortly, from there to Rainham,
in Kent, her native place. Here, also, she had
the privilege of speaking in the meetings of
the Latter-day Saints, and also in Chatham in
the same county. But her principal business
there, was gathering up the genealogy of her
family, which kept her very busy, and took her
to all parts of the county; consequently she


remained in Kent some weeks, spent very
pleasantly and profitably. Then she went back
to London, where she visited the chief points
of attraction, and spoke publicly in the meet-
ings of the White Chapel Branch, and also
the North London Branch.
	While in London, Mrs. Horne called at the
office of the English Woman’s Review, where
she met and conversed with Miss Lydia Becker,
one of the leading suffrage women of England,
and the Editor of the Woman's Suffrage
Journal, Manchester; also met her Secretary.
Of this interview we shall have more to say
hereafter. Mrs. Horne visited the Woman’s
Hospital in London, and was most kindly re-
ceived by the House Physician.
	Leaving London, Mrs. Horne returned to 
Liverpool, and sailed from there on the City
of Rome on the 25th of July, and after an
agreeable voyage, and no unpleasantness to
speak of, the steamer arrived in New York on
the 2nd of August. Mrs. Horne reached home
on the 12th of this month, having been absent
exactly three months, during which time she
has traveled 15,000 miles. Her sister went up
into Canada to visit relatives there. Mrs.
Horne has enjoyed good health during her ab-
sence, and has come home feeling well, and in
the best of spirits, to take up her accustomed
duties in and among the sisters’ organizations,
expecting, in addition to these, to labor for her
dead in the Temples of the Lord, for those,
whose records she has obtained while away.
	We welcome her home with joy, and pray
that her life may be prolonged to accomplish
all she desires for herself and family, and as a
mother in Israel among the people.—ED.


﻿Hurry to or from trains should in all cases
be avoided. It is dangerous to the healthy
habitual traveler as well as to the invalid.
Many a one has suffered permanent dilatation
of the heart in hurrying to catch a train; many
a one has dropped dead from the same cause.
Hurry in catching trains tends to weakness of
the nervous system, to indigestion, and to heart
disease, to say nothing of the risks of catching
cold from sitting down in the carriage heated,
in cases where the person has to walk quickly
instead of riding.
	We believe that in the Bible God has given
a form of government to the family, the
church, and to the State; and that in neither
is it good for man to be alone, but that God
designs that women as well as men should
share in the government of each. Those only
who have neglected the study of the Bible as
a text-book in government can deny this. In
the republican government which God gave
Israel, women took part in the ele[---]n. The
elections then, were by acclamation instead of
by ballot, and we find the women shouting
for David when he and Saul were running for
President; and Mrs. Deborah was President of
the United States of Israel during a term of
forty years.—Rev. M. A. Gault, Blanchard, Ia.
	In the entre nous column of the Boston Sun-
day Herald, commendatory notice is given of
Lady Folkestone’s orchestra of girls, which
made a lively digression from the staid customs
of London at a concert given in aid of dis-
tressed Irish ladies. It is asserted that “Bos-
ton has never attempted a full-blown orchestra
of ladies only, with its graceful conductor of
the female persuasion.” The Herald's memory
is short—let it ask Mrs. Sallie Joy White, who
so much honors its staff, if it is possible for
London to show a more graceful picture than
was made by the lithe and youthful figure who
stood in the rear of the gallery of the Music
Hall and led an orchestra of “ladies only” at
a most notable gathering at the Hub a few
months ago, which was presided over by a
woman every whit the peer of my lady of
Folkestone.—Ex.


