		  PROVIDENCE P. A.
	Meeting held June 19th, 1888, at 10 a.m.
Prest. R. Traber presided. Singing. Prayer
by Bishop N. Hansen. Singing. Roll called.
Minutes of previous annual meeting read and
accepted.
	A recitation was given by Amy Rammell;
Mary and Emma Bowman sang a song; Recita-
tion, Walter Madsen
	Sister Pike explained that Sister Molen was
detained on account of sickness, and made an
opening address, which was full of good
things.
	Annie Crowther and Company sang a song;
a card exercise was then rendered by the Prim-
ary, entitled, "Good Manners; Lula Hammond
read an essay, "Honor Thy Father and Thy
Mother."
	Sister Crowther occupied a few minutes;
thought we should do unto others as we wish
to be done by, if we would all be happy. A
recitation, Hopkin Matthews.
	Bishop N. Hansen was pleased with the

[column 2]
pieces that had been rendered by the children.
He thought the children respected their Presi-
dent very much.
	Sister Gamble said the children knew the
Lord loved them, and that He was with them
continually. Asked the Lord to bless us.
	Bro. Hyrum Campbell said a great improve-
ment had been made in order.
	Sister Jones said, "If any little girl or boy
should do wrong, they should tell their mamma,
and ask her to forgive them," and said many
other good things.
	Prest. R. Traber addressed the children a
short time. Asked the Lord to bless us.
	Singing, "Merry, Merry Children." Bene-
diction by Joan Marler.
	Afternoon exercises: President R. Traber
presided. Singing, "Beautiful Zion." Prayer
by Sister Pike. Singing, "Hope of Israel."
Report of the Association was read. A song
was then sung by Alice Fout and Joan John-
son; Diana and Diantha Hammond, a dialogue;
Annie Lane, instrumental music. Sister C.
Theurer made good remarks. William Marler,
a recitation; Alice Bullock read a selection,
"Honor to Parents;" Annie and Sarah Marler,
a song.
	Mary A. Tibbits said she had labored in the
Primary five years, and never had a better
time since. Exhorted all to attend Primary.
Milton Hammond gave a recitation; Alice
Quible, a song.
	Sister Crowther gave a brief address, touch-
ing on many useful matters.
	Bishop Hansen told the children never to
get tired of attending Primary.
	Lula Hammond addressed the children a
short time. Asked the Lord to bless us.
	Rachel Theurer, Eliza J. Tibbits and Bertha
Zollinger were honorably released as Counselors
and Treasurer. Rosalia Haderli and Bertha
Zollinger were then voted in as Counselors, and
Mary Gibbs as Treasurer. Sister Pike said the 
officers of the Primary were: Rosina Traber,
President; Rosalia Haderli and Bertha Zollin-
ger, Counselors; Mary Zollinger, Secretary;
Lula Hammond, Ass't Secretary; Mary Gibbs,
Treasurer.
	Sister Pike said we should pray for our
President, and be very kind to our fathers and
mothers. Said she had been looking at one
little boy who could not hear or speak, and we
should be very kind to him. Said they called
the Primary Association of one ward in Logan
together to pray for the Bishop's wife, and im-
mediately after they had prayed she took a
turn for the better.
	Prest. R. Traber arose, and said she hoped
the children would remember what they had
heard and put it into practice: There would
be a Fair after the meeting, on the stage.
Thanked the brethren and sisters who had
come to visit us.
	Singing, "I'll strive while young to tune my
voice." Benediction by Robert Naef.
			LULA HAMMOND, Ass't Sec.

