		  UINTAH STAKE P. A.
	The conference of the Uintah Stake Primary
Association convened in the Stake House, on
Saturday morning, May 5th, 1888. Present
on the stand: Sisters Abigail Oaks, Elizabeth
Bingham and Ann Hacking, of the Stake
Presidency, the presidents of the different
ward Associations, and their counselors, also a
fair representation of the Priesthood of the
Stake.
	Although a cold, wet, rainy day, there was a
good attendance, and the programme was ren-
dered in a most enjoyable manner.
	Programme, morning session: Singing,
"Oh, come children, come," by all the Associa-
tions. Opening prayer by James O'Neil. A
boy of the 4th Ward Association sang a song;
"Children's Song," by all the Associations;
Song, entitled, "Welcome," by Cora and Eddie

[column 3]
Wardle, 4th Ward; Recitation, Stephen Taylor,
Dry Fork Association; Instrumental Music,
Mrs. Griffin; Song, seven little girls, Merrill's
Ward; Recitation, Willie Southam, Riverdale
Ward, entitled, "The Exile's Family;" Song,
"Lucy Grey," by Earnest Giles, Mill Ward;
Dialogue, by little boys, 1st Ward; Ten Com-
mandments, by Elizabeth O'Niel, 4th Ward;
Song, with organ accompaniment, entitled,
"Parents don't Visit the School," by the little
Hacking children; Recitation, Hannah Jenkins,
4th Ward; Song, Stella Colton, Mill Ward;
Song by all the Associations present, entitled,
"In our Lovely Deseret." Benediction by
Joseph Carroll, a boy of the Mill Ward Asso-
ciation.
	Programme, afternoon session: Song en-
titled, "Joseph Smith's First Prayer,"
by all the Associations. Prayer by Albert
Bird, a boy of Merrill Ward. A song
on page 20, entitled, "I'll be a Little Mormon,"
by all the children present. Primary Address,
Tommy Hicks, Mill Ward; Recitation, Alice
Reynolds, Mill Ward. entitled, "Awake! Ye
Saints of God! Awake!" Dialogue, James
O'Neil and Frank Alplanalp, 4th Ward; Reci-
tation, Mary Hall, Dry Fort Ward; Instrumen-
tal Music, Mrs. Griffin; Recitation, Reeves
Bird, Merrill Ward; Dialogue, Almira Mecham
and Company, Riverdale Association; Recita-
tion, Albert Caldwell, Merrill Ward; Recitation,
Carrie Neilson, Mountain Dell Association;
Song by the little girls of 1st Ward Associa-
tion; Dialogue, two little boys of Merrill
Ward; Recitation, Leah Glines, Mill Ward,
Song, "Lord's Prayer," Effie Howard, 1st
Ward; Recitation, Myrtle Wamsley, 2nd Ward;
Instrumental Music, Mrs. Griffin; a Cantata by
the girls of Millville Ward Association, Mrs.
Griffin leading and accompanying them on the
organ; Song by all the children present, en-
titled, "Oh, my Father, Thou that dwellest."
Benediction by Marcellus Pope. 1st Ward.
Elder Thomas Bingham, Jr., of Mill Ward led
the singing.
	Among the most notable of the foregoing
exercises was a song, "Welcome," by Cora and
Edie Wardle, of the 4th Ward, with an organ
accompaniment by Mrs. Griffin; also a recita-
tion by a little girl 4 years of age—Elizabeth
O'Niel—of the same ward, the ten command-
ments; a song and dance by a little boy three
years old, Earnest Glines, of Mill Ward; also
a poem by Sister E. R. Snow, was recited by
Alice Reynolds, a little girl of the same ward;
a recitation by Reeves Bird, a small boy six
years of age, on Wisdom and Politeness, which
he illustrated by gesture in a most pleasing
manner; also a dialogue by the two little Pack-
ard boys of the same ward; this was rendered
in a most happy style; Willie South m, of
Riverdale Ward, recited "The Exile's Family,"
which was quite touching;" Effie Howard, a
little girl of the 1st Ward, sang the "Lord's
Prayer" very sweetly, and two little girls of
Dry Fork—Mary Hall and Carrie Neilson—
recited excellently; in fact all did their parts
well, but it would occupy too much time to
mention them separately, these specially men-
tioned being among the smallest children.
	The reports from the different Associations
were dispersed through the programme, all
wards reporting. The reports were encourag-
ing, and tended to show, that although this
was the first P. A. Conference held in this
Stake of Zion, we were in a fair way to stand
side by side with other Stakes in this respect.
The day passed quickly and pleasantly, and
with the exception of a few mistakes in the
programme, which were rectified, everything
was satisfactory.
	Prest. Oaks thanked all present for their
kind attention and assistance, and adjourned
the conference until Sept. 1st, 1888.
				ABIGAIL OAKS, Prest.,
