(REPORTED BY JOHN M WHITTAKER.)

[Continued.]
	Brother Richards continuing said: To read
all of President Young's sermon, would be to oc-
cupy all the forenoon. It is long and full of inter-
est. These principles lie right at the foundation
of our education our growth, and our usefulness.
I felt as though I could do no better than read
this portion or part of the sermon to the sisters
now eleven years after he delivered it.
	It will be remembered that we labored to sus-
tain ourselves. He wished the sisters to manu-
facture hats, and the brethren to sustain them in
their labors, so that we could become a self-sus-
taining people. He wished the brethren to estab-
lish manufactures and start various industries.
And so strongly was he impressed, that he arose
the second time and encouraged the sisters to
raise Mulberry trees and cocoons, so that they
might manufacture silk.
	An organization was effected, and the sisters,
many of them, took stock in this company; it
worked well for a time; some of you have seen
the products of that work.
	Having made these few remarks, which will
bring more vividly before you the instructions of
eleven years ago and him who delivered them, I
do not feel to occupy more time; but wish to say a
few words during some part of the day. With
the many sisters and presidents that are here, we,
no doubt, will have many refreshing, cheering
and profitable discourses. I will now introduce
to you Sister Presendia Kimball, sister of the new
President, Sister Zina D. H. Young. Sister Kim-
ball will address you.
	My brethren and sisters: I am pleased for the
opportunity of meeting with with you on this occasion.
What is more gratifying than to see the faces off
the daughters of Zion and sons of God meeting
together to honor, to commemorate and to mani-
fest our respect for our late President Brigham
Young, who has gone behind the veil. I feel to
thank God for this and every other blessing that
I am permitted to enjoy. This Relief Society is
a great benefit and blessing to the poor and to the
Bishops. It was instituted to aid and assist the
sons and daughters of God; but we do not all ap-
preciate its worth. And those who labor to pro-
mote these institutions are blessed and will be
blest in every laudable undertaking, and God will
sustain them in their labors. I feel that Sister
Richards is a blessing to the sisters of this
county. And though her labors are not now ap-
preciated, they will be some day, when this raid
that is now upon us is ended, and the beloved
brethren who are in hiding can come out and
instruct us and preach to us. I ask God to hasten
the time and bless them with strength to stand
firm at all times.
	I think the remarks of Brother Richards, and
the counsel contained in the sermon of President
Brigham Young, worthy of imitation. I think
the mothers should profit by them; and those who
are past bearing children, will do well to profit by
them and teach them to their grandchildren.
What is there better than to see the children
brought up in the fear and admonition of the
Lord? What is more pure and holy than to see
children virtuous and God-fearing, all working


[Column 1]

righteousness and keeping the commandments of
God, and preparing to stand as Saviors upon
Mount Zion? Mothers are the ones that train up
the children. Never let your tempers get the
upper hand of you. Teach the little children to
pray as soon as they can lisp their words—teach
them before they are too old. Teach them while
yet they are pure from their Father In heaven, be-
fore they are surrounded with the influences of
the world, and then they will make mighty mem-
bers of the Church and Kingdom of God; for
such will soon be needed. The fathers and
mothers of this Church are getting old and are
passing away. They are going one by one, one by
one. I have been in this Church fifty-two years.
I have seen the rise and fall of a great many great
and noble spirits in the kingdom of God. "Blessed
are they that die in the Lord from henceforth,"
so says the Lord, "for their works do follow them."
I do not look upon death with the terror that some
do. I think it will be pleasant to go behind the
veil and join with those who have been faithful,
honored God and are bright and shining lights in
His kingdom.
	We should teach our children to honor them.
Not find fault, but to teach ennobling principles
of the salvation of the living and the redemption
of the dead. Of the work in the temples, I can
say that it occupies a great deal of my time, and I
feel thankful for such privileges and blessings. I
have the comfort to know that I have been in
every temple built in this generation. I ask God
to bless the fathers and mothers in Israel, that
they may bring up their children in the ways of
God, to be pure and holy. Teach them the princi-
ples President Brigham Young taught, that they
may grow up to be useful in this world and gain a
crown of glory in the world to come.
	I pray that you will remember Sister Zina in
your prayers; for she needs your aid and support
in her declining years. I pray God that He will
bless the authorities, and also the mothers,
especially the rising generation. I think the Re-
lief Society is one of the greatest blessings, ex-
cept the Primaries, that God has ever given
through His  prophets for the benefit of this
people. It is something that will enable the child-
ren to bear this kingdom off when the aged are
passed away.
	I pray that his choice blessings may rest upon
these organizations, those who are laboring in
their interest and all who desire to do right, and
all who are honorable among the nations of the
earth who desire to do good. If I had power I
would be pleased to live to be sanctified for the
changes before us. These are the greatest bless-
ings that we can live for, or that could be given
us, and I ask for them to rest upon us in the
name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	President D. H. Peery then said he deemed it a
fitting place to talk over the events that have
transpired since the instructions of President
Young, which were given to us eleven years ago
to-day. He had known President Young before
he saw him. He loved him for the relationship
he sustained with the heavens, and for the great
principles of the Gospel and other things he advo-
cated. The speaker had the good fortune to know
most of the presidents of the United States. He
had, in his youth, learned to call Benjamin Frank-
lin "the Solomon of America," yet, when he saw
and knew Brigham, Brigham Young was, in his
mind, the Solomon of America. He was great,
and his name will be handed down from genera-
tion to generation as one beloved of his people
and of his God.
	He well remembered the instructions of Presi-
dent Young in relation to Home Industries, and
thought if the people had taken his advice, they
would be self-sustaining to day. He also be-
lieved the time would come when, if this people
did not turn round and repent, that they would be
in a condition of hunger when the children would

[Column 2]

cry for bread, and that, too, before many decades.
These were strong impressions made upon his
mind, and they were with him constantly. He
prayed for the blessings of God upon the people
of Israel.
	Sister Helen Mar Whitney said:
	I feel honored, my brethren and sisters, in ap-
pearing before you here to-day and mingling with
some whom I have not met for many years. I
never before met with the Society in Ogden, and
I now feel it a privilege to be here on this event-
ful occasion.
	I can say that I loved President Young. He
dandled me upon his knees from my birth, and I
loved him next to my own father. He, Uucle
Joseph Young and my father had equal place in
my heart. They used to ask me which of them I
loved best, but I never knew any difference. I
once said to an inquiry, "I love you all at once."
Uncle Brigham used often to relate this.
	I feel that I can say amen to all that has been
said here to-day. The instructions of President
Brigham Young seem familiar. He was one of
the noblest of men.
	I can realize the responsibilities and the cares
that are placed upon the mothers; for I am a
mother, and one that has reared a number of
children—sons and doughters; and I know the
anxiety of a mother; I have felt it for many years,
and have prayed that I might live to raise my
family. My husband had another wife—a good
woman, too, and a good mother—but I thought I
would rather raise my children myself, because
she might indulge them too much; and there is
danger in that, just as much as in its opposite.
But the Lord has spared me to raise my children
to become men and women, excepting those He
has taken. I feel that it is the greatest comfort
that could be placed upon me, and it is the hight
of my ambition and my desire to see my children
walking in that path which leads to eternal life.
And as far as the things of the world is con-
cerned, there are many good things that the Lord
blesses us with, and which make us happy, but it
is better to keep the riches of the world away
from us, until we know how to use them.
	Mothers should train up their children in the
fear of the Lord. There are no missionaries that
can do the good to children that mothers can, be-
cause she knows the child's disposition and its
weaknesses; she knows how to train it aright;
and it is an important thing. Mothers should
study how to manage their children, to know what
is best for this child and for that, and to show no
partiality. The rearing of children is a most im-
portant mission. When once a child becomes es-
tablished in the faith, it is a consolation to see
him or her walking along in the paths of virtue
and honor, treading in the footsteps of their
Master and Redeemer. I feel in my daily prayers
to pray for the mothers in Israel, and for the
youth of Zion, that they may come to an under-
standing of the Gospel.
	In looking back over the past, I can see where
we might have improved. I understood that the
earth was to rest every seven years; but I have
never seen the time when we wanted anything or
needed anything, but what the Lord has blest us
with the same, if it was for our good.
	It is a day for us to be prayerful. It is a day
when we should be humble—even humble our-
selves in sack-cloth and ashes. And I feel that
the present persecution is a chastisement and
that it will be for our good. It will clear us of
those who are among us, who hinder our progress,
for they prevent us from enjoying the blessings of
the Lord, which we would otherwise have. It is
perfectly right, and I feel to pray that the chasten-
ing hand of the Almighty may be sanctified to
the good of this people.
	I, for one, feel to be up and doing. The adver-
sary stands ever ready to destroy our usefulness;
he has done much to discourage me and take me

[Column 3]

off the earth. And I have felt sometimes as
though it would be a joy if I could go. But it
was only in  my weak, sick, and prostrated
moments. I feel now to live to take part
in the winding up scenes.
	I pray that we may be saved and crowned with
that glory that we desire, in the name of the Lord
Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Apostle H. J. Grant then said:
	I am pleased to have the opportunity to meet
with the sisters on this occasion, and I have been
interested in what has been said here this morn-
ing in the remarks that have been made, and
those portions of the sermon of Prest. Young's
that have been read to us.
	I realize that it is the neglect of small duties
that devolve upon us as Latter-day Saints, that
makes us feel that we are not required to do those
things that are so small. I believe that there are
many Latter-day Saints who think they can neglect
insignificant requirements and small duties, and
still press forward in keeping the commandments
of God because of the testimonies that they have
received of the truths of the Gospel. I do not
believe that it is possible for you or for me, or any
individual to break any of the commandments of
God and maintain the fellowship of His Holy
Spirit to the full extent. The Lord certainly does
not intend to be trifled with; and when He gives
commandments to us as His people to keep, if it
is of sufficient importance to give commandments,
it is certainly right and proper that we should keep
them. I believe in the influence and the power
that the mothers of Israel have over their child-
ren. I believe that the remarks that President
Young made here are true, and that it is possible
for the mothers to make their children about wha
they may desire. They are capable of moulding
their characters for good or for evil; and through
the neglect and failure on the parts of mothers,
you will find you can trace the failure of the child-
ren.
	I recall to my mind, at the present time, a cer
tain individual that was very careless in his youth
in keeping the commandments of the Lord. The
father of this boy was an Apostle, and whenever
he would do wrong, his mother would shield him
in his wrong, and hide it from his father. He went
from bad to worse and met a violent death.
	Now, I do not believe that it is possible for any
mother to cover up the misdeeds of her children
and have them grow honest. I realize that we, as
Latter-day Saints, if we but keep the command-
ments of God and do His will and perform the
duties devolving upon us, that we will receive
blessings from our Heavenly Father. He makes
no promises to us that He is not willing to fulfill.
The great difficulty is, we neglect to keep His
commandments through which we are entitled to
His blessings, and then ask for the reward without
being entitled to it.
	Now, we have heard, with reference to the com-
mandments which come to us by President Young,
that we should be self-sustaining. How many of
the Latter-day Saints are self-sustaining to-day?
How many of the Latter-day Saints, from the
Twelve Apostles down, wear home-made clothing?
Very, very few indeed. How many of the Latter-
day Saints throughout the whole Territory pay
their tithing. This is a commandment of the
Lord, He said we were to pay our tithing, and
He has given it as a law to the people, that they
should pay one tenth of all their increase. There
are many who, when they make a little, will pay
their tithing; but when they make considerable, it
breaks their hearts, they feel that they cannot do
it.
	Now, it may seem an extravagant statement, but
I believe one fourth of the Latter-day Saints do
not pay their tithing. The Lord has said if we do
not pay our tithes and our offerings, it shall not be
a land of Zion to us. I can say truthfully, I spent
several days in looking over the records in Salt


[Column 1]

Lake City, and was dumbfounded to see that some
Presidents, Bishops and officers, many and many
of them, do not pay a dollar of tithing, in some of
the different Stakes of Zion—representative men
among the Latter-day Saints. What is the trouble?
Why, we seem to have set our hearts upon the
things of this world. We think more of keeping
the dollars and cents in our pockets than to gain
the blessings of God.
	I call upon the sisters to teach their children, in
their youth, that on every dollar they make, they
should pay one tenth to the Lord. If we desire
the Lord to open the windows of the heavens and
shower forth the blessings of God upon us, we
must live right. If you wish your sons and
daughters to gain a testimony of the truth of the
Gospel and grow in the knowledge of the truth,
then teach them that Jesus is the Christ, that
Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, that Brig-
ham Young, John Taylor and Wilford Woodruff
are his legal successors. If you wish this knowl-
edge to burn in their hearts, teach them to pay one
tenth—a just portion of what comes into their
hands. If we do not render unto the Lord our
thanks, His Spirit will die out and wither within
us, so far as the Gospel is concerned. If we set
our heart upon the things of this world, we will
gain the things of this world and that is all. I tell
you the tithing that is paid by the Latter-day
Saints does not help God at all. He does not
need it, so far as He is concerned. Then why are
we called upon to pay tithing? So that we would
not become sordid and selfish. Why are we called
upon to keep the Word of Wisdom? So that we
can keep our bodies pure and our spirits pure
Why are we called upon to be prayerful? So that
we will be humble. Why are these command-
ments given? So that we may attain to perfection.
They are given to perfect us, and fit us to dwell in
the presence of God, the Eternal Father. But
paying tithing, keeping the commandments and
being prayerful does no good to God, but to us.
If you would have your children grow up to be
bright and shining lights in the kingdom of God,
doing their duties so that they may attain perfec-
tion and dwell in the kingdom of God eternally,
teach them to keep all the principles of God.
Teach them to be honest with their fellowmen and
with all mankind, and to keep their word as their
bond.
	I do not feel to occupy any more time. May
God bless you, one and all, is my prayer, in the
name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith, though having weak
lungs, desired to mingle her voice with that of her
sisters, and was pleased to listen to so many good
testimonies, and hear the good instructions given.
She rejoiced at having the honor of being at the
first Relief Society, organized in Nauvoo, and had
noted with pride the rapid growth of the Society.
She was also at the first Young Ladies' meeting,
or organization, in President Young's house, and
had been pleased with their improvement since
that time. She said they were doing a good work,
and was pleased to state that she was first a secre-
tary, then a teacher, and next a president; but of
all the positions she had ever held, she believed 
that of a teacher the most important. She realized
there was a great deal required of us, and rejoiced
in seeing the sick comforted and blessed, the lame
healed, and the blind restored to sight through the
administration of the sisters. And she urged up-
on the sisters to teach their children faith in the
ordinances of the Gospel, that they might grow
up pure in God, and be sanctified with the re-
deemed.
	Elder Richard Ballantyne addressed the con-
gregation a few moments, encouraging the sisters
to be up and awake to their duties and privileges.
He felt to welcome the visitors, and was glad to
meet to help commemorate this holy day. He
was acquainted with President Young in Nauvoo
and since he lived here, and ever found him to be

[Column 2]

a man of God, and give fatherly advice at all
times. He invoked the blessings of heaven to
rest upon the sisters who are laboring in the Relief 
cause everywhere.
	The choir sang, "Praise to the man who com-
munes with Jehovah." Benediction by Bishop
E. Stratford.
	At the close of the services, President Jane S.
Richards extended a hearty welcome to all the
people to repair to the Third Ward meeting house,
where they went and partook of one of the most
completely arranged dinners ever gotten up so
quietly.  It was the remark of everybody, "How
nicely this has been arranged," etc.
	The room was decorated with garlands of ever-
greens and flowers; above the stand, in letters of
evergreen, was inscribed:

	1877,
WEBER STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY,
	1888.

A large picture of President Brigham Young was
hung amid these inscriptions, and below the late
Presidency of the Church. In the south window
was a scythe, covered with evergreens and decora-
tions, hung in open view. These decorations
were the work of the Y. M. and Y. L. Associa-
tions of the Third Ward. These young people
deserve great credit for the artistic display, which
enhanced the pleasure of the dinner very much.
The tables were handsomely furnished with an
abundance of everything of the choicest in the
season, brought from the several wards in the city.
It was verily an enjoyable feast, and partaken of
by all with a relish, seasoned with conversation of
such a nature as added much to the enjoyment of
the occasion. Six or seven hundred people sat
down to the tables spread for them. Counselor
Barnard White superintended the preparations.
Apostle F. D. Richards pronounced the blessing
upon the food.
	At 1:45 p.m. the afternoon exercises began in
the Tabernacle, Mrs. Jane S. Richards presiding.
Congregation sang, "Come, let us anew," etc.
Prayer was offered by Bishop Barnard White.
Singing, "Now, let us rejoice in the day of salva-
tion.
	Sister Mary Ann Hyde, President of the Relief
Society of the Sanpete Stake, said:
	Beloved brethren and sisters: I feel it a great
privilege to meet with you on this occasion. I
have been very much gratified to meet with so
many of my sisters. It is a privilege I never be-
fore enjoyed. I feel that there is a sweet influ-
ence in the midst of the sisters of this place, the
same as there is throughout Sanpete.
	I was very much pleased with the remarks of
Sister Richards, your President, this morning.
They were kind and gentle and motherly, and
carried that influence with them that draws so
many towards her.  In her speaking of the sim-
plicity of our teachings, there is so much
pleasure that gives joy in labors of life's duties
which we have to perform. We are not here be-
cause of our fluent speaking but because of the
truths which are uttered by the speakers to us.
	In listening to the remarks of President Young,
it carried me back to the time when the spirit
and mantle of Joseph fell upon him. I was there
and witnessed that scene at the time it occurred.
I looked, and it seemed as though it was Joseph
himself. I said to those near me, "See there is
Joseph," not even taking my eyes off for fear I
should lose the sight of it. It was a testimony to
me that he was the right man in the right place.
	It is the privilege of every Latter-day Saint to
have a degree of revelation for themselves. I
have been blessed many times by listening to the
whispers of that still small voice; and I would
exhort those of my brethren and sisters who
have not got a testimony of this work, to try and
get it.
	Persecution is now upon us, and I pray that

[Column 3]

the chastening hand of the Almighty may be
sanctified to our good, that we may see between
light and darkness in the great struggle that is
going on. And I wish to say that in 1842 I
was sealed to my husband and during this long
time in plural marriage I have had a great many
opportunities of proving the principle; and I have
raised a great number of children, and I feel that
it is quite possible, sisters, to love the wives of
your husband, no matter how many he may have,
you can cultivate that love. And the children of
all will be equally dear to all. I feel to rejoice that
the Lord has given me strength to hold on until
now, and pray that He will bless me until the
end.
	Sister Rachel Grant then said:
	I feel very pleased, my brethren and sisters, to
meet with you this afternoon. I feel that these
societies are a great benefit to this people, and by
attending to my duties my faith has been
strengthened; but the greatest blessing of my life
has been that I have entered the Holy order of
marriage, although it has been the greatest trial
of my life. But to-day, I can say I feel thankful
for the experience I have gained. I have a good
opportunity to think and reflect, as my hearing is
not good.  I have been grieved many times at the 
course some of our young have taken. I feel very
much interested in the rising generation, and
would like to see them prepare themselves for the
great work of the future they will have to per-
form. There is a carelessness and neglect among
the young that grieves me. I was out to Grants-
ville at conference a short time ago, and after en-
joying a good meeting, we came by Garfield
Beach, and it hurt me to see so many of the
young people, calling themselves Latter-day
Saints, there bathing and sporting on the Sabbath
day. I feel that we do not pay respect unto the 
Lord as we should. I realize there is no people
upon the earth to-day, that is more greatly blessed
than we are. Then, let us realize our position as
a people, and appreciate the blessings God is daily
bestowing upon us. I beseech my young brethren
and sisters to store their minds with useful knowl-
edge, that they may be fitted and qualified for the
events of the future. I pray that we may be
humble and prayerful, then will the clouds of per-
secution roll away, and we will be a happy and
free people. For I look for the time when I will
be able to hear by the power of God; and unto
this end I continually pray, in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
	President Angus M. Cannon said:
	It is gratifying to me to be privileged to meet
with you to-day, and listen to the words of coun-
sel that we have heard, and I trust that while I
address you, that the Holy Spirit of God may fill
my heart with hope and my mind with light, that
it is the privilege of the covenant children to en-
joy; that while I may address you, I may speak
those things actuated of God, and which will be
the greatest good for us all. When we stand
forth in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, we do
not stand to utter our own words, but the words of
Jesus, whose ministers we are—for the Holy
Ghost is the minister unto His servants; and when
He called His Apostles and sent them forth, He
said: "As my father hath sent me even so send I
you; he that receiveth you, receiveth me;
and he that receiveth me, receiveth Him that sent
me." With this commission, message and divine
authority bestowed upon them, He told them they
were not to minister, when He took His departure,
until the Holy Ghost should come and furnish
them with the knowledge of God and the testi-
mony they should bear. Hence, the necessity of
us to-day possessing that spirit, and being actuated
by that divine influence.
	When I contemplate and realize that we are the
descendants of God, obtaining tabernacles of
flesh, and being ministered unto of the Lord
through His divinely commissioned servants—


[Column 1]

apostles and prophets—I ask myself the question:
"Do our lives comport with our professions, and
are the evidences of our labors such as shall give
us credit. You mothers, and my younger sisters
are to raise up men to instruct kings, and minister
the Lord's laws in His divine organization by His
authority. Hence, the necessity to impress upon
 the minds of the young, whom you are called to
nourish and educate, their divine descent, the
knowledge of the dignity of their calling and the
situations they will be called to fill.
	A man may have grown grey in the service of
God, he may have filled his life with continued
labors in the ministry, yet he has never received a
daughter of Eve at the hand of God until he took
upon him the obligations of the everlasting priest-
hood. And if he lives right, he will prize nothing
as he will the will of God. He will not love his
wife as he loves God, for God gives him his wives,
God give woman to man under pledges of eternal
union.
	Now, we are being tried and schooled; and my
heart rejoices in the testimony of Brother Grant,
this morning, as he taught us the necessity of be-
stowing upon our families a good example, the
paying of tithes and offerings with fidelity;
and I thought how appropriate these teachings—
these truths, in the presence of these mothers,
and these maidens who are destined to become
mothers.
	When I read the history of those two thousand
young men, and the manner of God's blessing
them under the hands of the High Priest, Hela-
man, that they went forth cherishing the testimony
God had given them through the advice and
teachings of their mothers, that God would sus-
tain them in all their battles, and when I look upon
the mothers of this people, and remember the
sacrifices that they have made in sharing with
others their wifely interests and in cheerfully and
freely dividing their scanty support that they may
carry out the divine behests of Jehovah, I say
when I realize these things, I feel to glorify God
that you have been true to your covenants and the
counsels of God Almighty.
	When I have seen those same men turn and
weaken, whom their wives have done so much for,
when the United Order came about—I say when I
see these men weaken, when they have been re-
quired to take their substance and place it upon
the altar, subject to the divine counsels of God,
and hear them say, "Well, I don't know whether
that is very good or not; I think I can handle my
property as well as any one else, and until I can
find some one who can handle it better than I, I
will not listen to that counsel"—when I have seen
men aged and grey, feeble with age, assume such
a position, with their wives and children looking
upon them—those who have been required to
sacrifice their feelings and almost break their
heart-strings, in order to carry out the divine
decrees of God—and then to see their husbands
weaken and hesistate when it comes to temporal
things, I say, unhappy are the wives of such
men; yet it is a thing that has been done.
	This is a day of trial, and I speak of these
things that these sisters who are mothers, and will
yet become mothers, may teach their child-
ren—their sons and daughters—that as they prize
the fellowship of God, they must  prize His gifts.
We should make everything subservient to the
will of God. I tell you, there is nothing in the
world that excites the despleasure of God, as the
abuse of the blessings that He bestows upon us.
Therefore, teach your sons to be obedient, to be-
lieve in God's existence, and that all they possess
should be subject to His divine will.
	Then would we encourage home industries.
Then would those who wear home-made clothing
be respected, and then would we become more of
a self-sustaining people. And while the trains
are heavily laden with Sabbath breakers and
transgressors, going to these popular resorts on

[column 2]

the Sabbath, and on moonlight excursions, where
some of the daughters of Zion have been cor-
rupted and destroyed, the majority of the people
are on the side of the kingdom of God, and are
strengthened by the testimony of Jesus, and God's
name will be glorified in the earth from the rising
to the setting of the sun, and Zion is rising and
beginning to shine forth. May God strengthen
us in every good endeavor, unite us in our hearts,
that we may be characterized by virtue, truth and 
good works, whether it be by father, mother, sis-
ter or brother, wives or children, husbands, sons
or daughters, so that we may set examples to the
world, and may fill the stations we are called to
fill with dignity and honor; and that God may
strengthen you mothers and daughters in the call-
ing whereunto you have been called, is my prayer,
in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Sister Harriet Snow, Prest. of the Box Elder
Stake Relief Society, said:
	I rejoice to be in your midst to-day, and to
listen to the good instructions which have been
given. We have been called to labor amongst the
Saints in the midst of the mothers in Israel.
	I have been made to rejoice in all Gospel doc-
trines that have been revealed, and I never have
any recollection of ever doubting any one of them
at any time. I have tried to perform my duties
step by step, and still feel determined to perform
every duty that is made known to me. That is
why I stand here to-day. Since I have been in-
terested in the Society of Box Elder Stake, there
have been two taken off from what was, originally,
one Stake. We are striving  to store away wheat,
and I believe we must have about 500 bushels
now, and I believe the time will come when we
 will need it. I pray God to bless us in all things,
in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Dr. Edward Isaacson was then introduced, who
said:
	To say I am pleased—to say that I am thankful
to meet with you this afternoon, would not express
the feelings of my heart: I rejoice to see so many
happy faces, and when I reflect upon the great
and mighty work the Lord is doing, and that this
work has been entrusted to your care to do, you
certainly have a right to  be called, "True mothers
and daughters in Israel."
	And when I realize how many of our fellow-
beings are helped and assisted in the hour of
need and tribulation, when I realize that the
mothers in Israel go from house to house to com-
fort the sick and cheer the afflicted, I say unto
myself, these mothers and daughters have been
called by God Almighty, and placed here in these
valleys of Zion for the purpose of doing good.
	While I was listening, this morning, to Bro.
Grant, my heart was filled with sorrow. He has
told us plain enough that he has been, for days,
looking over the records of our tithing, and there
he has found that no more that twenty-five per
cent of our people are keeping the command-
ments of God with regards to the paying of tithing.
	My sisters, this is a law which was given unto
the great law giver, Moses, and which he gave
nnto the ancient people of God, and while they
paid their tithes and their offerings their tem-
ples and their cities have prospered and stood in
their glory; but as soon as they neglected to do it,
we know what become of God's people. These
commandments were again given to our Prophet
Joseph, and are in force among us in this dispensa-
tion; and while Apostle Grant said it is not right
 to neglect your tithing, I will go still further and
say unto you, that those who do not pay their tith-
ing, break one of the commandments which says:
"Thou shalt not steal!"
	I love to hear my brnthren and sisters testify of
the goodness of God, and to the truth of His Gos-
pel; and while the Lord has blessed us and is
blessing us, let us keep His commandments and
do His will at all times. Let us appreciate these
great blessings we here enjoy in these

[Column 3]

valleys of the mountains. When first
the people came to this place, it was
barren and wild. But now, through the blessings
of God, it has been made beautiful, and we have
ov ely homes; for God did give these homes to
us, and they are His. I must say, that each meet-
ing that I attend, each time I mingle my voice
with those of my brethren, strengthens my heart
and my testimony in the knowledge that we alone
have the only Gospel of the true
and living God; and through His
gracious mercies, which he is bestowing upon
this people daily, shall teach them more and more,
that God Almighty has chosen them. He has
blessed this people and surrounded them with
magnificent and beautiful temples, the like of
which are not to be found upon the face of the
earth; He has blessed us in many ways, yet we
are only slow in doing our duties towards our God.
Let us, then, my brethren and sisters, live nearer
to God, keeping His commandments, and live
noble lives in His sight.
	I may say again to you, that we do not live as
we ought. If the Prophet Brigham Young were
to see the loads going on excursions on the Sab-
bath day, seeing the daughters of Zion mingling
with the Gentiles, would he not feel very sorry
 for the Saints? You have heard read here this
morning his counsels, given eleven years ago to-
day. He has counseled you mothers to watch
over your children, and bring them up keeping
God's commandments; and I beseech you to live
up to the counsel he gave while with us. Instruct
your children to walk in the ways of God, and He
will bless you. I know that the hand of the Al-
mighty is over this people, and I bear my testi-
mony to you, that this alone is the truth of God,
and it is His work. May He in His mercy bless
us. May He keep His eyes over us and
watch and protect us, so that we may not fail to
do our duties as He desires us to do, and that we
may keep His commandments, through Jesus
Christ. Amen.
		To be Continued.


