THE WRITER AS HE WRITES.

	"When you just begin to be an author,"
writes Julian Hawthorne in America, "the sight
of the blank sheet of paper gives you an appe-
tite instead of depriving you of it. You long
to be at work and cover it with ink-marks. A
new writer not only enjoys writing, but re-
writing also; I have known authors who will
copy out a piece over and over again, until the
page appears without an erasure That is not
a bad thing by way of practice, and would, no
doubt be advocated by the printers. But it is
not likely to be kept up more than two or three
years. After that the writer knows what he is
going to write before he writes it; he has
learned the art of putting the contents of his
mind directly on paper; besides, he has not the
time to make copper-plate reproductions of his
work. He is more apt to put it off to the last
practicable moment, and then to do it as rapid-
ly as he can. And by-and-by it will be irk-
some to him to do it at all; and he will wish
that fortune would present him with a year's
vacation, during which he could lie on his
back and do nothing.
	"There is a period, in the writing of every
book, when it seems impossible it should ever
be finished. What has gone before seems bad,
and what is to come is either a blank, or it
promises to be worse than the beginning. An
apathy, a paralysis, settles upon the worker; he
wishes he had taken up butchering or liquor-
selling for a living. Every day that he post-
pones the completion of his task it appears
more hopeless; his mind is gloomy, his con-
science oppressed; be haunts his study, but ef-
fects no more than a ghost might; he draws
pictures on scraps of paper, reads books that
do not interest him, and even plans out work


that can only be executed at some indefinite
future opportunity; at last his final moment of
grace expires, and he sits down in desperation
and plunges his pen into the inkstand. The
work goes on, and then he wonders how he
could have imagined any difficulty. The word
'Finis' is written, and he experiences an up-
lifting of the spirit. Thackeray, according to
all accounts, was subject to distressful periods
of this kind; but he declares, in one of his
essays, that after finishing a given book it was
his custom always to begin another before go-
ing to bed—in the mood of reactionary light-
heartedness following upon his depression."—
Ex.


[Column 1]

