SHADOWS AND WHISPERINGS.

A faint, soft shadow flits across my mind,
	And thrills me with a gentle tenderness;
Wak'ning a memory only half-defined,
	A trace, perchance, of vanished happiness;
I try to call it up, but cannot tell, 
And yet 'tis something, I have known full well.

My thoughts go back to places where I've strolled,
	And gaze into the faces known in youth, 
And wander round the scenes so dear of old,
	To seek this vision out, and find its truth;
Alas, I search in vain, each much loved spot, 
It still eludes me, still I find it not. 

It often cheers me in my saddest hours,
	And if in doubt my feelings wildly stray, 
I feel most strongly then, its charmed powers, 
	Just like an angel presence round my way; 
Gently it comes, and whispers "peace be still,"
O, doubting heart, abide "the Father's will."

Oh, bliss of heaven on earth, we may not know, 
	For dusky fall the shadows of to-morrow;
Whate'er the talisman, for sin or woe, 
	Life's cup is tarnished with a silent sorrow, 
But we shall know when this poor life is past, 
The secret of the shadows that are cast. 

I sometimes think I must have lived before, 
	In a much brighter, fairer world than this;
That I have stepped from that enchanted shore,
	As though I woke from out a dream of bliss, 
Where soft hand lingered in a fond caress
Upon my head, to soothe me and to bless, 

As if a shadowing of recompense 
	Had followed me from our that home afar, 
For in my heart remains a partial sense
	Of a bright realm with golden "gates ajar,"
And through the portals of the glorious way
Perhaps there streams to earth a heavenly ray

'Tis strange these dim, mysterious shadowings, 
	Should seem to mock us, with half-confidence;
Puzzling us with their distant whisperings, 
	The music of an unknown utterance, 
That yearning, human hearts must ever feel, 
Longong for knowledge, that will all reveal. 
			E. B. Wells				E.B.W.
October 17, 1879.


[Column 1]
	SALT LAKE STAKE ACADEMY.
	A circular of the Salt Lake Stake Academy,
recently issued by the officers of the institution,
sets forth clearly the object in view in its
establishment, as also the methods and course
of instruction, and the basis and regulation of
its management, so plainly, that no one need
be misled as to its facilities and advantages.
It is now two years since the Academy was
opened, and there has been an opportunity for
those interested to understand what has been
done, and what good is likely to result in the
near future. It must be apparent to the
Latter-day Saints, that there is a necessity for
more definite religious instruction for the
children than they were formerly in the habit
of receiving; and they should certainly be as
zealous in this respect as the Roman Catholics,
who are so diligent and watchful over the little
ones entrusted to their care. Believing as
this people do, it seeing very strange that there
should be so much neglect in the religious
training of the youth of Zion. But there has
been quite an awakening on the subject, and
the outlook is hopeful, that more and better
opportunities for all, will ere long, render it

[Column 2]
easy for the children to avail themselves of
this class of instruction, which has, in the past,
been confined to a few.
	The Academy receives students of both
sexes on equal principles, and they are advised
not to procure text-books, until they ascertain
the grade to which their qualifications assign
them.
	The officers of the Stake Board of Educa-
tion, under the auspices of which the Academy
is founded, are: Angus M. Cannon, President;
W. B. Dougall, Secretary; John Nicholson,
Elias Morris, James Watson, Francis Cope,
and W. A. Rossiter, Treasurer.
	The Faculty: James E. Talmage, Principal,
Academic Department, Natural and Physical
Science and Phonography; Willard Done,
Intermediate Department, Elocution and Pen-
manship; Joseph Nelson, Preparatory Depart-
ment and Mathematics; Willard Croxall, As-
sistant; Dr. Mattie P. Hughes, Lady Superin-
tendent. 
	The circular gives quite explicit information
regarding what is taught, what books are to
be used, and so forth. The exercises of the
day, both at the opening and closing, will be
with singing and prayer. Discipline in refer-
ence to conduct will be such as no one can ob-
ject to. "Profanity and obscenity in any form
is strictly forbidden;" "the use of tobacco and
strong drink is not allowed,” and there are
other positive regulations similar in character
and spirit. The girls will be under the special
charge of the lady superintendent. 
	There will be, in connection with the school,
what is called “The Field Club,” composed of
students of the scientific classes and others who
will visit places of importance for practical
study, make excursions, and so forth. “The
Student's Society” will be another organiza-
tion to afford an acquaintance with parliamen-
tary usages, and for practice in public exercises.
Officers will comprise a Chairman, a Secretary
and a Recording Secretary, to be chosen from
the students of the Academic Department.
Evening meetings held weekly, lectures, and
musical and literary exercises given. The
Latter-day  Saints will, without doubt, use
their best endeavors to maintain and sustain a
school of learning such as this Academy must
be if the intentions are carried out in the let-
ter and spirit thereof.  
	Such institutions in Zion will assuredly
check the growth of that tendency to infidelity,
that seems to have settled like a cloud over
the minds of many, who have been striving
for knowledge, without first becoming rooted
and grounded in the faith of the Gospel of
Jesus Christ.
	The Brigham Young Academy at Provo,
and the Brigham Young College at Logan
were founded upon the same principles as this,
viz.: that the doctrines and principles of the
Church should be taught as the foundation of
all science, all knowledge and all truth, in-
stead of, as in the institutions of learning
 generally, everything else first and religion
secondary. When schools of this kind shall be
established in every Stake of Zion, the people
may look forward to a radical change for the
better in other respects.
 	The Executive Committee of the Stake
Board of Education consists of Angus M. Can-
non, W. B. Dougall and W. A. Rossiter.
	The Academy will commence its first term
in the Social Hall in this city, September 3rd,
1888.—ED.


