Home Science Department. Janette A. Hyde. CONSERVATION AND CITY WAR GARDENS. In garden movement not only affects the people of Utah, but it is very far-reaching in its scope, as we feel that in every state where our Latter-day Saint women are organized into Relief Societies, our method of home-gardening, introduced four years ago, in this department, has laid the strong foundation for this work. We had the right inspiration. It did not require the declaration of war in the United States, however, to interest our sisters in economy and conservation. Since 1913 especially, the Relief Society has operated this department for the encouragement of this very practical and economic side of home-life. We know, before the United States Government asked the people to take up this question, that there was too much waste land in every city and village, that the people were not producing enough, that families as individuals, were depending upon someone else to supply them with the foodstuffs which they, themselves, should be producing. MRS. GARDEN ON THE CITY STREET. HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. We opened up a department in the first issue of the Relief Society Bulletin, known as Home Garden Work, and have kept this department, in connection with the Home Economic Work, ever since, having lessons written on the methods of fertilizing, seasons for planting, kinds of seeds to plant, etc. In fact, we specialized on every necessary detail for the success of carrying out these garden suggestions. The only difference in the projects undertaken by the Relief Society and the projects undertaken by the Government is that we not only utilized the space of the home garden hitherto uncultivated, but in many instances have encroached upon the spaces used by the city for parking. I have been asked by the Editor to write an account of my own experiences. In the early spring of the past season, the mrs. hyde's garden. big around my home, which is on a sloping hillside, and is 15 feet wide, had just been finished by the city. We, therefore, decided that the parking property could be used to good advantage, and we decided to plant such vegetables as we felt would mature in a rather shady place, and would help to feed our family during the winter. We began immediately saving the eyes from the potatoes which were used by the family in the kitchen, thus conserving all of the potato. We, however, were not fortunate in using enough potatoes to furnish the seed for planting this particular piece of ground which is 2 by 5 rods. We purchased from the city seed department $2.10 worth of extra potato seed. This was planted, leaving a small space of 2 rods square on this same curbing for string beans. Our potatoes, from all indications, will yield about 15 bushels. The beans produced proved useful for our summer use. 574 . This land would have been put into lawn, which would have required extra water and care, with no results as to conservation of food. As it is, we will have sufficient potatoes for our winter use, and already have had sufficient beans for our table for the summer season. In the little back kitchen garden, size 2½ rods by 2 rods, (which we have always cultivated, but not with the success we have had this year) we have been able to raise enough fresh early vegetables for our family of five, besides giving us 10 quarts of very delicious young beets which have been put up for our winter use; also three quarts of carrots, besides having all the early carrots and beets we could possibly consume. We planted a very fine variety of peas, turnips, radishes, onions, which was ample for our consumption during their productive season. As soon as the radishes were exhausted, the MRS. HYDE'S GARDEN. ground was fertilized, and sugar beets were put in their place. These will furnish later beets for table use, as well as supplying more for winter use.

We have, always, in the kitchen garden, a bed of mint under the water tap near the foundation of the house, a nice bed of parsley, which not only supplies us for our use in cookery, but furnishes three other families as well. We have planted several bunches of English chives, which are so delicious for soup and gravies; five bunches of rhubarb, one row of sweet dill for pickles and flavorings, as well as several nice bunches of horseradish. Then, too, we keep a number of bunches of sage and summer savory. Five of these are permanently grown in our kitchen garden. After the general planting in the form of early vegetables was completed, we still desired a space for cucumbers, but owing to the obstruction of the rays of the sun, we found the space we had left was very unfavorable. Hence we devised cucumber boxes which were set upon rocks and filled with sandy fertilized soil. In these we planted our seed, which later developed into wonderfully productive plants. From the box, we transplanted several vines in the space that had been occupied by onions, one of which grew and contained at one time, twenty small cucumbers. We will have all of the pickling cucumbers for our winter's supply of pickles from the producing vines in the open boxes. We really feel that this project was worthwhile. We gave our young son, who is eleven years of age, the task of watering and caring for the garden, allowing him the proceeds from the same, and up to date, in his own method of accounting, he has sold the family $8.00 worth of garden supplies. This does not include the potatoes, as the potatoes have not yet been harvested. In addition to our regular garden for the winter's use, which was maintained this year, we keep four laying hens, using the parings and refuse from the vegetables as part of their regular food. Then, too, we have one row in the kitchen garden of the old-fashioned marigolds which has kept our dining-room table supplied for the summer with flowers, and will furnish packages of seeds for friends and replanting next year. The illustrations and cuts, as shown in this article, are reproduced from the garden in its growing season. We feel that the results obtained from this small space are worth enumerating for the benefit of those who feel that city kitchen gardening is not worthwhile. The benefit to be derived from such a project is, in the first place, educational to the family, it is productive of thrift, and in a measure uses up the surplus energy of young children. It also creates a very pleasant addition for the family table; it stimulates a desire in children to want to be producers. It furnishes the family with plenty of fresh garden vegetables; it uses up the waste space that would otherwise be unsightly and filled with weeds; and above all, it creates a desire to give to the world something that would otherwise be waste and destruction. It creates a desire to conserve that which is so necessary to sustain life.

Current Topics. By James H. Anderson.

American troops being trained in France are practically ready to take a place on the fighting line. German air raids over England continued during August, and early September with serious results. The State of Utah has bought an expensive automobile for its Governor to ride in. Moscow is to be the new capital of Russia, or of at least that portion of it which may remain intact after the war. Drafting of young married men for the army has raised a serious question in the United States, by reason of its effect on the future population. China has declared war against Germany. This is favorable to the United States, as China's resources affect the Asiatic campaign. James Rowan, district secretary of the I. W. W., called a general strike in several Northwestern States, in August, to hamper the government; he was arrested, and the strike failed to materialize. Aerial attacks by the Entente Allies upon German troops and bases are becoming more and more an important item of the active warfare now in progress in Europe. THE FRENCH at last have succeeded in driving the Germans back to the line where the latter were before they began the great drive against Verdun, in February. The Germans made great headway against the Russians in August, the Russian soldiers retiring precipitately in many places, without an effort at defending their country. In early September the Germans took Riga, the Baltic port. Women in Turkey are being called to office positions and as telephone operators.

The world moves, even in Turkey, when war compels. CURRENT TOPICS. Armed Resistance in Oklahoma, against the workings of the draft law was suppressed quickly by the government, through the arrest of about 250 of the objectors; several were killed in making the arrests. The National Guard of the several States was mustered into the Federal service on August 5, making an immense army. Italy gained notable victories over the Austrians in the last week of August, securing that part of Austria where the chief population is Italian. Empress Eugenie, though past 90 years of age, takes an intense interest in the great war in France, and anticipates that she will see her country again in possession of Alsace and Lorraine, lost when her husband was overthrown as emperor of France. Austria is now the weakest of the Teutonic powers in the way of desiring peace and willingness to make concessions therefor, but is held back by Germany's inflexible desire to fight to a finish. Liberia, though a small nation, is important in its declaration of war against Germany, as this will eliminate the little republic as a base of supplies for the Teutons, which it has been for some time. Minister A. F. Kerensky, though made ostensible dictator in Russia, yet is unable to command the adherence of the various factions to the extent of a virile unification of the nation, hence the latter continually faces crises threatening the national existence. Liquor to the amount of $25,000 in value was hidden in a garden in Salt Lake City, and was unearthed by the police after the prohibition law went into effect. Verily the way of the lawbreaker sometimes is expensive. "Loot Jerusalem" is the motto of the present Turkish regime in Syria, which also is driving the Jews from Palestine. This will aid in hastening the overthrow of the "terrible Turk" in that land. Mateless women is a situation after the war which is greatly agitating some sections of society. The Prophet Isaiah had something to say on that subject concerning these times. 578 . The Fashion Art League in Chicago has decreed that hereafter half-hose shall be the style for ladies' silk hose, with no ribbons or laces for certain undergarments, which are to be of bright colors. Russia has become a negative factor in the war, so far as the Entente Allies are concerned, and seems destined to disintegration. The Socialism in control there is proving incapable of the task of unifying the people even for successful self-defense against German aggression. On the western front in the great war in Europe, France, Great Britain and Italy scored notable successes during August, against their Teutonic foes, but the battle-lines still are tensely drawn for another year's campaign. Germany's food supply is alternately reported to be sufficient and exhausted. It probably is neither, for the kaiser had laid in a good supply of grain as well as of munitions of war, but the conflict is lasting longer than he anticipated. The submarine menace from Germany grows less in magnitude with each succeeding month, owing to the efficiency of the destroyer service from the British, French and American fleets. Trousers are now officially authenticated as a proper costume for women, according to fashion authorities. It is to be hoped the garment worn will not be the inelegant pair of parallel cylinders with peg-top variation as worn by men of fashion. Twenty-one of the forty-two nations of the world are formally at war, seven others have broken off relations with Germany, and the remaining fourteen are sufferers from the war, as this affects foodstuffs and other necessary supplies that are articles of commerce. Negro troops of the 24th U. S. infantry engaged in a race riot at Houston, Texas, in August, in which 17 persons, mostly white people, were killed. The quartering of negro troops where there is any considerable colored population, especially in the South, always has proved a costly mistake. Prussianizing America to democratize Germany is a fear which is being expressed frequently in the United States as a result of the unusual powers of control which Congress is placing in the hands of a few prominent men. Time must tell whether these powers are exercised righteously. CURRENT TOPICS. Washington officials now admit that for a long time prior to January, 1917, this government knew of Germany's presuppositions to attack the United States if successful in defeating France and Great Britain. Yet 1917 found this country in a state of absolute unpreparedness for such an event.

Gasoline conservation is to be effected by reducing the amount of automobile "joyriding," if government has its way; conservation of human life and safety also would be effected thereby, since many "accidents" are due to recklessness of the "joyriders." Mesopotamia, the great overland route to central Asia in the Old World until after Vasco da Gama rounded the Cape, is likely to be revived, this time as the route for Great Britain from Alexandretta to India; hence the political and commercial importance of relieving it from Turkish or German domination as revealed since the war began. Control of the great material interests of the United States such as transportation, fuel, food, and important manufactures, is now centered in the national administration at Washington—a condition which, as a virtual substitution of autocracy for democracy in this country, would have shocked and even appalled the entire nation if seriously proposed half-a-dozen years since. The peace proposal of the Pope was decidedly adverse to France and England in that it would establish a virtual Teutonic empire from the Rhine to the Persian Gulf, and leave the way open for another aggressive war by Germany, to crush France and menace or destroy Great Britain. This fact made certain the rejection of the proposal by the Entente Allies. In Salt Lake City, the street railway asked for an increase of practically 25% to 50% in fares, owing to the increased cost of operation. The people objected on the ground that their expenses, too, had advanced, and to increase the carfare would be putting the whole burden on the class which could least afford it. Thus the question was submitted to the State public utilities commission to determine. President Wilson's reply declining the terms of peace proposed by the Pope, on the ground that the word of the present German government without the expressed covenant of the whole German people could not be trusted, is probably the strongest and most pointedly worded document yet issued by the President, and goes to the heart of the matter.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Motto: