The most valuable piece of property this The Nation's possesses today is You, yourself. The Most Valuable most costly sacrifice which could be made would Asset be your loss of health or life. The most precious gift you can turn over at your country's call is your vigorous service in your home, first; in the Relief Society, and Temple, next; and then in ways of conservation and what public service you can render, after the demands made upon you by home and Relief Society are satisfied. No woman will help the war cause if she neglect her children or her home. No woman will aid the nation by neglecting her regular contributions to the needy in this Society, nor by attending war charity meetings when she has to stay away from Relief Society meetings to do it. And over and above all these—no woman will be justified before God, angels, or men, who crowds herself daily to the breaking point and beyond it, no matter how good her motive, nor how unselfish the labor she may be engaged in. The Father of our spirits is also custodian of our bodies, and He will hold us to strict account if we knowingly and deliberately shorten our days or make invalids of ourselves for others to nurse. We have just so much time, strength, and nerve force: it is our duty to wisely administer those resources.

"Yes, but," says one, "I am a leading officer Do What You in the Relief Society, and Mr. Hoover tells us Can, and What we must do this, the State Council wants us to You Can't Do, do that, and what am I to do?" Bless your soul. Don't Do!

the great cities of this nation are crowded with childless women, women of means and ability for everything but real wifehood and real motherhood. Take it from me, the woman who has a home to keep, a husband, and a family of children on her hands, is doing quite all that the heavens and the earth ought to require of her. True, she may possess rare executive ability—she has to if she is a successful home-maker—and would enjoy using it in public office, and her heart may be torn with sympathy and longing to help when she reads the harrowing calls from the press, but, be at peace, Mother, you will do your full duty if you guard and guide your little ones and make home a haven of rest for husband and family. Let the army of childless women do the work for the army of hungry soldiers. There's enough of them. It was said in Washington that a man was not to be exempted who had been married three years and was still childless. What a Daniel came to judgment there! The floods of advice that are loosed upon our helpless heads, by writers who are paid to say things but whose experience is limited to a ten-foot flat-bedroom, would make a farmer's cat laugh. The farmers are arraigned, belabored and appealed to, to save the nation in this hour of stress. As a matter of cold facts, the farmer's boys and hired men are drafted into the army, his wife and daughters are working twenty hours a day to can vegetables, fruit, or to dry it, while they are trotted to meetings and exhibits and demonstrations till their minds and bodies are in the same state of collapse which hovers over the overworked farmer's head. No one need worry. High prices make us all economize. Meanwhile, the flat-dwellers in the city—nonproducers every one of them—howl hysterically for the farmer to save the nation. Oh, that Mr. Hoover would send the clerks to hoe the corn! Another amusing phase of this serious conservation question is the reams of recipes just out by popular magazines to "save bread" and other things. A late popular magazine gives a page of stale-bread recipes which call for eggs at 55c doz., molasses at 75c qt., sugar at 12c lb., milk at 15c qt., cream at 60c qt., and jelly at 40c a glass, butter at 60c lb., with which to use up a cup or more of stale bread crumbs. Nice economical advice that! While nuts, cracked pecans, at $1.00 lb., in various ways are suggested to take the place of 15c worth of hamburger steak. This is the day of the faddist and theorist. Still another piece of senseless advice to us out here in Utah is to have meatless days. Why, we have meatless months! Then they talk of breadless days! Gracious, don't they know that rice and potatoes, as well as corn meal, are twice as expensive when it comes to satisfying hungry men and children! How can you get people to buy rice when they grow flour twice as cheaply? The magazines give pages of economy menus that make plain livers gasp because of their gross extravagance. When one observes the wicked waste of cafeterias, hotels, and eating-houses, one wonders why Hoover does not tackle the real source of waste. Hotels throw out and burn more than would feed the people of all the homes in the city. It is to laugh! What shall we do about all these matters, mothers and grandmothers? Try to have everyone eat all that is taken on the plate. Be careful to use every possible bit of food material. Don't burn bread or any foods in cooking them—this is the worst economical sin in the dietician's decalogue. Do a little more patching. Make the old clothes last a little longer. Teach the children true economy. Don't serve too much variety at any one meal. Where you have to buy milk, make gruel for children, to cut down expense. But don't rob yourself nor your family of plenty of good, nourishing food. People who work hard need to eat well. Comfort and cheer your husbands in this difficult period. Be quiet and calm in your feelings, and do a little temple or genealogical work each week. Attend faithfully to your prayers, pay your tithing and keep the Word of Wisdom. When you can get out to assist in all this war work without overtaxing yourself or neglecting your home, do so.

But above all things, cultivate poise, balance, peace and calmness. This is our highest duty to God, to our loved ones, to our country, and to ourselves.