BOOK REVIEW. THE SHELLEYS OF GEORGIA. Old timers in Utah will recall the name of James A. McKnight, or, as he was known among the pioneer boys, "Jim McKnight." Mr. McKnight, who is a nephew of President Brigham Young, drifted away from the Church and his people in early manhood. He settled in Georgia, where he has married twice and raised a vigorous family of children. One of his sons is now in the war. In collaboration with his cousin, Beatrice York Houghton, he has written a remarkable story of modern conditions in the South. While there is no startling episode and the plot is conventional, yet the reader's attention is held closely and many vivid pen pictures enliven its pages. "The Shelleys of Georgia" is a strong novel of the South, by the South, through Southern aid and inspiration, but for every reader who enjoys a story of real men and women. It is dominated by "Captain Gabe" Shelley, representing the best of the Southern progressive element, and centers in the love affairs of his beautiful daughter, Rose, a very human heroine, and correspondingly lovable in every one of her many moods. Through the love story, with many conflicting elements in which varying moral standards are fearlessly held up for inspection, there runs a thread of fine philanthropy which culminates unexpectedly. No latter-day problem is dwelt upon as such, yet there is scarcely one that cannot be regarded in a clearer and fairer light after reading this thoroughly human story in which healthy and often really humorous optimism is ever present, even in situations that would leave weaker natures hopeless. Something worthwhile is said or done in every chapter, and the whole story passes swiftly to a climax of intense dramatic power. The remarkable feature of the book is indeed the fact that the single standard of virtue is held up with constant strength and deliberate purpose. Associated with this is the modern method of treating villains by reforming them. The manner of that reformation constitutes the plot of the book. It is indeed a pleasure to find a modern novel which can be whole-heartedly recommended for reading in the family circle and we cheerfully advise our readers who are fond of a good story and a thoroughly good moral to read this book. The author himself says in a private letter to his Utah friends that his convictions on the point of a single standard of morals are due to some of the early teachings which he imbibed among the "Mormons."

CHURCH SCHOOLS. There was never a time in which our young people more needed good educational advantages than in this period of flux and change. But give that education in the Church schools, parents, where the spirit is electrified by gospel teachings, while the mind is taught useful knowledge. Learn all you can, but learn it from the sources of truth and righteousness.