Serving
KAYSVILLE
MIDVALE
SANDY
MORGAN
GARFIELD
MURRAY
Mary Birch Miller, a Gold Star Mother
By Cora Carver Ritchie
When that great commoner, William Jennings Bryan, made his last speech in Twin Falls, he told a story about a little white flower. He said he was viewing the grandeur of the Snake River Canyon, with its precipitous walls of molten lava, noting especially its barren, burnt appearance, when his eye glimpsed a small white flower, growing apparently from the very rocks. He marveled at plant life being able to exist at all in such desolate barrenness, much less to thrive and bring forth a beautiful blossom. He was so impressed with the bravery of the little white flower that he decided to reach it. After several perilous efforts he picked the flower.
AS he gazed at its white purity and smelled its dainty fragrance, the thought that came to him was this: if a flower dared to grow and do its best unseen, little knowing the reason, struggling amid desolate hardships to thrive and turn out the best for the world, with only the sun and unheeding river as passers-by, how much more man should strive to do his part, to put forth the very best that is in him.
THAT little white flower had filled its place on earth, little knowing that by its tenacity and beautiful giving it had touched one great heart. If it could feel, how proud it would be to be noticed and held and admired and maybe it would respond to the tear that fell from that kindly eye.
When I first noticed Sister Mary Birch Miller, I thought again of the little white flower. The firm grasp of her little calloused hand, the kindly smile and the wrinkled face, the fast greying hair, and the whole fragility of her little body, gave an impression of a flower that had dared to do its best in spite of hardships.
SISTER MILLER is an exception to the rule that a man is not without honor save in his own country, as her co-workers, neighbors, friends, and especially the children, all express the same love and respect for her. One man said, "She is a little giant." She does every task faithfully, quietly, meekly, so full of humility that many pass her by not seeing. She carries a basket, full of cookies, jelly, or it may be fresh buttermilk, or wonders from her own garden. That basket seems a veritable part of her makeup. No one knows just who will be the recipient.
THE praises of her cookies have been sung in ward poems, plays, papers and songs. Their fame began when she noticed President Kirkman could not eat at the socials as others, on account of his health, so Sister Miller brought her cookies which proved so wholesome and delicious to him. One Sunday, Bishop Roy Wood read a letter from a mission president. One line said, "We are releasing and sending home to you one of the very best missionaries we have ever had, Elder Woodruff Miller."
THE bishop then reached out his hand and touched a beautiful vase of flowers, small but dainty. He said, "Sunday after Sunday, winter and summer, a little vase of flowers has been placed on this rostrum. Sister Miller raised the flowers in her garden during the summer. When winter came she made them bloom in spite of the cold. But this year, for the first time, no blooms came. Undaunted, she arranged foliage and placed some lovely artificial flowers to give the effect of reality. All willing service, because of the love in her heart to spread happiness. These flowers speak more to me than you have any idea."
ALL the love, tenderness and gratefulness that one human could hold was uttered in that bishop's words. Many a heart responded. A tear came to the eyes of more than one. Just a little thing you say. True, but what are the little things? The important part of a great composite.
In February, 1930, an unusual party was given in honor of two of Sister Miller's boys?a farewell for Brother Eleezer Miller who was leaving for a mission to Mexico, and a welcome home party for Brother Woodruff Miller, who had just returned from the North-central States Mission.
SISTER MILLER was at her happiest. When asked why she wanted her boys to go on missions she answered, "I like to have them all go on missions. It's a good school, the very best there is. I have one more boy to go." That is the fifth son of the Millers to go on a mission. That is why the little mother was so happy. That night came the realization of long years of planning, scheming and sacrifice on the part of Brother and Sister Miller. These parents have made the idea of a mission imperative in the lives of their sons, so that when the call came each was ready. Only a little thing, you say. Perhaps for some who need not count the cost, but Sister Miller has always been a real pioneer. She has always had to struggle. Life for Brother and Sister Miller has been one long battle with the elements and with life itself, and now when she might enjoy some of the luxuries of life she is willing to give them all so that the money that comes into her home may be spent in the mission field. When asked the hardest thing she has had to do, Brother Miller spoke up quickly: "Lots of hard work and nothing to eat."
SISTER MARY BIRCH MILLER was born in Coalville, Utah, sixty-five years ago. Her parents were Patriarch Richard Birch and Mary Ann Hale. She married William P. Miller and raised three of his children and has had six boys and one girl of her own. All have been baptized in the Church. Most of them have done temple work. Five boys have filled missions. All keep the Word of Wisdom. They all pay a full tithing. What a record for a family unit!
Brother Miller, the father, set the example in ward teaching. Last summer he left his ranch and came fifty miles to attend his monthly ward teaching, not only doing his own but making up several other districts. For six years Sister Miller and her companion, Sister Annie Atkinson, have visited every home in their district every month, thereby gaining 100%. They walked always, through summer's heat, winter's snows, biting winds and mud. Only a little thing, you say. But what a mighty task would have been accomplished had every Relief Society sister done as much!
Brother and Sister Miller lived in Kanosh, Utah, in the early settlement of that place. They endured all the hardships incidental to pioneer life. She said, "We thought we were rich if we had a potato and a slice of bacon. We lived on pig weeds mostly, but they are good weeds. I bottled some for winter greens."
BROTHER MILLER helped dig the canal at the foot of the big clay mountain. It was discouraging work, for as fast as it was dug, washes from the mountain filled it up again, but this was their only drinking water. It was so impure Sister Miller boiled it. She always kept a bucket of boiled water on hand, not only for her own family but for all the school children. Doubtless many grown-ups today will remember that cup of boiled water. Only a little thing, after all,?yes, but mighty powerful if it saved one child from typhoid.
MANY were sick due to poor water and lack of food, so Sister Miller began her nursing career. The only doctor of the town sent her to care for patients he could not reach. She nursed many back to health. At one time she saved a sick Italian child after the doctor and the mother had given it up. The frantic mother had placed the candles by the child's bedside and the rosary had been said, when to the great surprise of all, Sister Miller brought the child back from the very jaws of death. Through all her child-bearing and nursing, she has been a constant worker in the Relief Society. At different times she has been counselor, teacher and president, which office she held thirteen years, always unassuming, quiet and efficient.
AFTER moving to Idaho, she was called on for a sacrifice that tests the very strongest. While homesteading in the mountains on the line between Nevada and Idaho, James Earl, her sixteen-year-old son was kicked by a horse. He had to be taken fifty miles to the nearest doctor. After a day and two nights of intense suffering God called him and he left his brave little mother.
A STILL greater trial was to come to her. When the finest young men in America left for overseas during the World War, Gilbert Miller, her oldest son, was one of the first to go. In that famous battle of the Argonne on the first day of the battle, Gilbert was among the first to go over the top. He was killed with a machine gun on the very eve of that battle, September 26, 1918. When no word came, no news of her boy until November 15, 1918, she was prepared to hear of his death, for in her heart she knew he had paid the supreme sacrifice. Gilbert her firstborn, her pride, her joy, big, strong, splendid, clean,?she was calm, knowing his reward was certain. Now, after more than ten years, she will see through tear-dimmed eyes the white cross No. 68, that marks his resting place.
SISTER MILLER went to France with the first contingent of War Mothers. While she is away, the father and other boys are carrying on. One of them said, "We are all good cooks; with sister busy with her five children, and Eleezer on his mission, we will take turns doing the housework." I wondered! I marveled! That little woman had trained her boys for every emergency, at home, in church, in society, in the mission field, aye, even in battle; all united, all loved and respected in the communities in which they live, all filling every task as kindly and efficiently as their mother before them.
SISTER MILLER lives one mile from the church; she attends regularly and walks most of the time. Last summer, besides caring for her big, husky boys, canning fruit and doing all her own housework, she nursed three mothers during their confinement. She is known as an expert nurse. Her education has been self-acquired.
SHE loves the new modes of living and travel and was thrilled when some friends took her for an airplane ride. She saves all the extra money she can, going without many desired things, to send to the temples to have work done for her relatives. Her greatest desire after sending her sixth son on his mission is to spend the remainder of her life working in the temples.
LIKE hundreds of other members throughout this great Church, she is willing to give, to sacrifice, aye, to lay down life itself for those in need. As she trudges bravely over the miles, her precious basket on her arm, with the wind whipping her skirts about her fragile body, we again think of the little white flower, giving forth the best, thinking little of reward, modest, shy, shrinking from the public eye. Who knows but the eye of the Greatest Commoner sees and is well pleased and some day will reach forth and pluck the dainty, white blossom and marvel?
If By Dying
By Arthur James Bowers
If by living I can help one soul to right,
Then let me live;
But if by dying I can show one heart the "Light",
Then let me die.
For oft' a death can change what life cannot,
And meatless sorrow bring what we had sought.