A Character Sketch of Helen Gibson Ellsworth
By An Old Friend
ONE of the unique characters of early pioneer days in the West was found in the wholehearted, genial personage of Helen Ellsworth, of Lewisville, Idaho?lovingly known to her many relatives and friends as Aunt Nell.
BORN on the plains, cradled for ten days in a moving prairie schooner, she filled a long, happy, useful career, and was finally graduated with honors from the school of life, at the age of eighty-one years. Through all the years she was a sturdy representative of the God-fearing mothers in Israel, mothers who, in the pioneer days, braved the dangers of the wilderness, and the trails of the sun-baked desert, to establish in the tops of the mountains an empire after God's own heart.
PRACTICALLY all of her life was spent on the frontier. Her story is largely the story of all pioneer mothers of that early day. To them life was one round of work and thrift and duty. They performed their tasks willingly and cheerfully. Having put their shoulders to the wheel they scorned the thought of turning back.
Helen Ellsworth's parents, Henry Elliot Gibson and Martha Eliza Gibbs, were married at Batavia, New York, on January 1, 1848. In the spring of the same year, on April 20, they joined Eliza's parents, and began with them the long tedious journey across the continent.
ELIZA GIBSON was the last child in a family of twenty-two children. She was somewhat frail and not in the sturdiest of health when the journey was begun. So it was a strenuous and nerve-racking undertaking for her. The roads were rough and in places almost perilous. There were long stretches of desert country to be crossed, dangerous rivers to be forded, steep canyons to be passed through, and untold hardships to be met. But this brave young wife was willing to endure all of these things in order to reach Zion and make her home with the Latter-day Saints. Having embraced the gospel, she was prepared to pay the price for her precious gift.
Day after day for five weary months they toiled on across the trackless waste. Then one Saturday night they made camp on the Black Fork River, between Green River and Echo Canyon, in what was then called the Territory of Wyoming.
AS was the custom of the Saints, they rested during the Sabbath day. And it was here, early Sunday morning on September 10, 1848, that little Helen was born?a blessing indeed to gladden the heart of her tired mother. That mother's long waiting days were over, crowned with a gift of joy. But her journey was not ended. For ten more days the invalid mother lay on her pillow, rocked by the swinging and jostling wagon, as the caravan wended its way across the gray prairie.
AND so it was that Helen Gibson Ellsworth began her career in life. They arrived in Salt Lake Valley on September 20, 1848, having traveled with a company of Saints under the direction of Heber C. Kimball. Helen's parents made their first home at the Old Fort in Salt Lake City. Later they moved into the Seventeenth Ward. When Helen was four years of age they located at Mill Creek, where her father operated a lath and shingle mill. From there they went to Ogden and later resided at Willard. While in Willard, Helen attended her first school, and studied her lessons by the light from the fireplace.
WHEN she was eleven years of age her parents moved to Richmond in Cache Valley. At the age of ten she was thought to be too old to play with dolls, so she gave her dolls to her little sisters; but she learned to sew for herself by making doll's clothes. When fourteen years of age, she cut and sewed by hand a calico dress for herself. It was a tedious task to hem the full skirt and all the yards of ruffles by hand, but she finished it in two days.
BEING the oldest child in a family of ten, many household cares devolved upon her. Her mother's failing health gave her still more responsibility. From the time she was fifteen years of age she had the care, not only of the household service, but also of the children and her invalid mother. Her household duties were somewhat more strenuous than those of our girls of today. She knit and spun and wove and helped to make candles. She cooked over a fireplace and sewed by hand.
WHEN twenty-one years of age, she went on a visit to Salt Lake City. It was at this time that she first met Brigham H. Ellsworth, a grandson of President Brigham Young. One month from the time of their first meeting they were married in the old Endowment House at Salt Lake City. The ceremony was performed by Daniel H. Wells, on December 27, 1869.
THEY bought a little home at Richmond, and their first child, a daughter was born there. This child was President Brigham Young's first great-granddaughter. A few years later Brigham and Helen moved to Salt Lake City, where he worked in the machine shops. Later he worked in the saw mill at Aspen Canyon, Wyoming. In 1882, in company with R. F. Jardine and family, they came as the first pioneers to Lewisville, Idaho. Here they settled permanently. Again they had taken their stand on the frontier of civilization, but their dauntless spirits knew no fear. They put their plow to the furrow and their shoulder to the wheel.
BACK in Utah were three little mounds, sacred to the loving memory of little Johnny and Owen and Biddy. But that was only another sacrifice to be placed on the altar in the reclaiming of the frontier. Helen, or Aunt Nell, as she was now lovingly called, proved herself a true helpmate. She was strong in body and in spirit, fearless, uncomplaining, and always full of good cheer.
IN this new settlement there were roads and canals to be made, houses and fences to be built, land to be cleared of sagebrush and to be cultivated, wells to the dug, and pests to be fought.
WHILE the homes were being made ready, Aunt Nell and the others lived in tents. As fast as her husband could cut down the logs for their own house, their eight-year-old son dragged them with a horse from the timber near by. Aunt Nell peeled off the bark and put them in the sun to dry. Later, she helped her husband to hoist them into place. By the time the roof was on the house, winter was near at hand. So she helped to daub the house with a plaster of thick mud. When it was finally finished they moved in on October 14. That night six inches of snow fell. As they kindled their fire and cooked their supper, their hearts rejoiced. Aunt Nell has often said that she never appreciated anything like she did that house. It was truly a place of refuge and of rest, and their home for many years.
OF Aunt Nell's eleven children, four were born in Idaho. Three small children were buried in Utah, and her youngest and oldest daughters were buried in Idaho. This latter death was an exceptionally hard trial for Aunt Nell, but she was brave in her own sorrows and ever ready to forget herself in order to help others.
SHE was strong and ambitious, and ready to do her share of the world's work. She made butter and cheese and soap, and raised chickens and garden produce. She usually had her windows full of blossoming flowers. Before fruit was raised in the valley, she used to take the children to the wooded river banks and gather wild currants and dry them for winter use. Later she bottled her own fruit and vegetables. She made quilts and rugs and wove five thousand yards of carpet on her own loom.
WITH so many tasks to perform indoors and outside, one would wonder how she ever found time to help others. Yet she was known throughout the little settlement for her many deeds of mercy. She visited the sick and the needy, she ushered in the living and helped to lay away the dead. For thirty-eight consecutive years she was a visiting teacher in the Relief Society, and she always found time to visit the newcomers in the ward and give them a word of welcome and good cheer. She was the sort of neighbor that the scriptures tell us about?a good Samaritan.
HER husband, Brigham H. Ellsworth, died November 19, 1922, leaving Aunt Nell to finish the journey alone. For fifty-three years they had lived and worked together through all kinds of hardships. Forty years of this time they had spent in Lewisville. B. H. Ellsworth was himself a very remarkable character. His work, like Aunt Nell's, had been almost indispensable to the Lewisville pioneers. He was a blacksmith and a natural mechanic. Not only could he mend a clock, or a farm implement, or shoe a horse, but he also built headgates and bridges, and caskets for the dead. His genius did not end in mere handicraft, for he was dentist and surgeon as well, for the town. He extracted teeth, set broken limbs, and sewed up bad cuts; in fact, he performed first aid service for all who came to him. He did not profess to be a surgeon, and made no charge for his work. He merely did the work that came to his hands to be done, and counted it part of his experience as a pioneer. Both he and Aunt Nell performed their work in a whole-souled generous manner, Their lives were truly lives 384 of service to their fellows. They were born to their work. The atmosphere of the desert, and the influence of that mighty pioneer Brigham Young, seemed ever to overshadow them, and hallow the work of their hands. AFTER Aunt Nell had passed the three-quarter century mark she was still strong in body and young in spirit. She lived alone in her Idaho home during the summer months; and spent most of her winters in Salt Lake City, doing endowment work for her dead in the Salt Lake Temple. She attended to all her household cares and took a pride in paying her living expenses by the labor of her own hands. She was fearless and independent and practical. Any new truth she heard and believed she immediately applied to her own life for her pleasure and benefit. EVEN in her last years she was never idle. She made quilts and rugs and paper flowers and did fancy knitting and embroidery. She watered and tended her orchard and garden and picked bushels of fruit every year. O*E of the most unique examples of thrift she performed the summer she was seventy years of age. She went about her orchard and ditches and gleaned all of the blossoming alfalfa she could find. 'She cut it with her butcher knife, let it lay and cure in the sun, and then carried it in her kitchen apron to the stack. It made fine hay and netted her a good price. The summer she was seventy-six years of age she planted one thousand strawberry plants, and later pumped water and carried it in buckets to get the plants started. MOST of her reading and study was from the standard works RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the Church and the Church magazines. She gained a testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel at the age of twenty-seven. And all - through the years it was a living flame in her heart and a guide to her feet. She bore eleven children, six of whom are living today. She has fifty-seven grandchildren, and twenty-four great-grandchildren, all of whom hold her in great respect. IT was a very fitting and beautiful thing that Aunt Nell was able to spend her last days in work for the dead, having already given her whole vigorous young womanhood in service to the living. Wherever she went, Aunt Nell had loving, appreciative friends. Her busy, cheerful, honest life was at once an inspiration and a power for good. Her fun-loving spirit helped her over many a hard place in the road, and her courage and supreme faith brought her peace when she reached the end of the long bright trail of life. WHEN I get to a place where I can't get up and walk off and do the work that needs to be done, I'll feel that my life is finished," she said, "and I hope I can pass on," This wish was granted and her passing was certainly beautiful. She ate breakfast with the family Sunday morning and urged her daughter to let her assist with the morning's work, Later she lay down to rest. She had not been feeling well for a few days. Before six o'clock Sunday evening, she had passed on to the great reward for which she had paid in full measure. May her children ever cherish in loving memory the principles of truth and beauty after which her generous, whole-souled life was patterned.