VOL. XVII JULY, 1930 No. 7
Mothers Of Our Executive Officers
By Fay Ollerton
Unlike as these four women were in their background, their emotional patterns, and in their spheres of activity, a common thread ran through their lives. It was a thing apart even from the gospel that had called them from across oceans and unending plains, and it was one of the determining factors that brought their daughters together as the Executive Board of the Woman's Relief Society. One of the women began life in the green beauty of rural England, another in an historic Pennsylvania town, a third first saw life in Illinois in the precarious days that preceded the Western migration of the Church, and a fourth was born on the snow covered shores of Utah Lake five years after Brigham Young had planted his cane on the future site of the Salt Lake Temple.
Yet, when the ruling traits of any one of the four are written, they speak as well for the other three. All of them had the sincerity and love of naturalness that marks the truly noble. Each of them walked with dignity, whether they lived, for the moment, in a dugout, a log cabin, a simple home, or a mansion built with riches. Always they preserved that "high opinion" of themselves. They had found the secret of harmony and inner peace without which no person can find repose. In intelligence and intellect these women ranked high. They had the common sense necessary to guide their own lives and to give inspiration and discretion in helping others. All of them were sought to give advice?perhaps because in their homes success dwelt, born of righteous living, thrifty habits, keen foresight, and harmony of aims and ideals. Their homes were never without books, from the Bible and attendant Church works to the novels of Dickens and Thackeray, and the then startling ideas sometimes expressed by George Eliot. And there were histories, too. How they all loved history! One cared for stirring tales of patriotism; another devoured biographies; a third sought for volumes dealing with the story of woman's struggle (not yet won); and the four of them were avid readers of periodicals and newspapers. From them and their kind came the persons who made it possible for women to lift their heads proudly as they do today and to face the world fearlessly.
Perhaps one of their strongest traits was superior energy. When health permitted it, each could do the work of almost four young women of 1930. They kept their own homes (kept them clean and orderly and with all the beauty they could muster), often spinning, weaving, sewing, assisted in the outdoor work, made butter and cheese, gave their time unsparingly to the Church; spent many hours in administering to the sick and needy; inspired and counselled their husbands; sometimes earned their living; found time for public affairs; read and followed cultural interests, and taught their children. They worked from dawn until far past the twilight hours, yet their energy seldom wavered or failed.
Most remarkable of all to the women of today, who are torn between the desire of following careers outside the home and of rearing children under happy conditions, is the manner in which these four women, with their strong personalities, their varied talents, and their love for action, kept their personal desires subordinated to the welfare of their Church, husbands, and children. They reared felicitous families without curtailing self-expression.
Elizabeth Francis Yates
An English officer, home from India, was walking down the Devonshire lanes with his tall, young daughter Elizabeth. "No lady," he told her, "ever leaves the house before she has fastened her gloves." Elizabeth Francis was still a goodish distance from her teens, but she wanted to be a lady worthy of her gentle mother and her soldier father. In after years, when life had dealt to her some of the bitterest potions it seems to reserve for those whom it loves most dearly, she still fastened her gloves and straightened her prim veil before she left the house. Elizabeth Francis had always been taught to meet the world in her best; the Elizabeth Yates who had walked across the plains so that her "pretty china" might ride, who had lived in a dugout in a little Utah town, and who had spent the last years of her life redeeming her dead in the house of the Lord, always met the world in her best with her head high.
But there is a fascinating story that lies between the Elizabeth who attended the Church of England with her pious mother and walked the Devonshire lanes with her officer father and the tall, blue-eyed woman who spent her days in the Salt Lake Temple. And only the smallest part of it can be indicated here.
When Elizabeth was a tiny child she had been sent to a maiden lady's school and taught her letters and the intricate stitches samplers in those days required. On her father's rare visits home, she displayed her knowledge. "Read the Bible," that officer who seldom crossed a church threshold would ask of her. Often he remarked, "Elizabeth, we haven't the gospel with us that you are reading about. But some day it will come, and when it does, you must not be afraid to accept it." He died when Elizabeth was twelve, but the girl, soon grown into a tall woman, dark of hair, blue of eyes, and graceful of bearing, remembered, and when she heard the elders of Mormonism, she was not afraid.
Yet an almost unpassable chasm stood between her and the truth. When she was fifteen, she had married the administrator of her father's estate, a man much older than herself and far removed from her in desires. She had borne him four girls, one of them now being only a baby, and her joy to have them and her husband know the truth was so great that she could scarcely wait until his return from London.
This man saw Mormonism as a thing to be treated with scorn. He told Elizabeth that if she accepted it she would lose her home and children. This last she could not do; neither could she forsake the truth so wonderfully given. She told her husband that she must have her daughters and the gospel too, but he, without giving her an opportunity for further decision, took the children away and kept them hidden from her.
It was a destitute young woman he left in quiet Devonshire?one burdened with one of the greatest griefs that can come to woman, and one unused to the hard ways of earning her daily bread. She was cooking strangers' bread when a traveling elder of her Church, young Thomas Yates, found her and sent her to Bath to live with his parents. But even in Bath, a living must be earned, and she began work in a corset factory.
Meanwhile she had not forgotten her children. The baby had died shortly after the separation, and she now spent much of her small earnings in trying to find ways of having the other three children come to her. All her plans failed. Her husband married another woman to care for the girls, and several years later she and some other saints from Bath made the long voyage across the Atlantic. On July 22, 1862, she was married to Thomas Yates at Florence, Nebraska, and set out to walk to Utah. Perhaps if she had known the many miles across Kansas and Wyoming, she would not have insisted on the china dishes.
Down at little Scipio she had Thomas erect a shelf for the china. Children, four daughters and one son, were born now, and the second child, Louise, came near to seeing life for the first time in a potato pit where pop-eyed toads and the fetid odor of sprouting potatoes vied with each other for attention. It was during an Indian raid and Elizabeth was rescued from the pit and taken to the log meeting-house just in time for her daughter, who was destined to be the president of all the Relief Societies, to escape from the ignominy of being born in a potato pit.
When the Yates first went to Scipio, they were literally without purse or scrip. Thomas had been a clerk in England and neither knew anything of how to combat the vicissitudes of pioneer life. But Elizabeth, who faced the world in her best, had brought with the china dishes some silk dresses, voluminous of skirt and decorated with yards and yards of ribbon velvet. Even in those severe times there were those who had, and in Scipio to have was to own sheep. And sheepmen usually had daughters and wives. Elizabeth ripped the trimmings from her dresses and sold it to the families for sheep. Then she began cutting the silk, piece by piece. By the time the last dress was gone, she and Thomas had acquired the beginnings of a small flock that was later to bring them the necessities and a few of the luxuries of life.
While the sale of the dresses temporarily deprived Elizabeth of her best, she soon managed a Sunday dress. There was never a time, her children will say, when she did not have a "best" dress and pair of shoes for them. Other children might go hatless in the summer wind, but Elizabeth's wore hats woven of bright colored paper. She was one pioneer woman who did not belong to the sunbonnet era. When she went to church or social gatherings, she wore bonnets fashioned by her own hands. She was scornful of the homely bonnet, even when she took Thomas, who was working in a nearby field, a dinner made of hot greens she had recently dug.
As the Yates family prospered, they grew in religious prominence. Thomas was a bishop, Elizabeth a Relief Society officer, and later the Stake President of the same organization. It was during her stake days that she bent all of her efforts towards helping the cause of woman's suffrage. "I attended to the matter at once," she wrote to a sister officer in regard to raising money for a national convention. Emmeline B. Wells spoke of her as "the General,"?and the Indian officer would have been pleased to have heard the title.
Her children's education was not neglected. Both Elizabeth and Thomas had fine voices, and they sang "Bell Brandon" and "To the West, to the West, to the land of the free, Where the mighty Missouri rolls down to the Sea," to their children and to the groups who came to the Yates home because it was more pleasant there than other accessible places. The Bible, Dickens, and George Eliot were part of the daily fare of the young Yates. It meant that they had been very bad indeed when Elizabeth did not read or tell them a story.
But singing and story telling were only a few of Elizabeth's gifts. She was a toe dancer! The pioneer woman loved life, swift moving and full of laughter, but she was just a little bit afraid of this last talent. It was not seemly, she thought, for a woman of her stature and position to cast off restraint in the dance. Yet once in a while, when some extra good fortune had come to the Yates family, or when they were more than every day happy, she could be persuaded to dance a jig.
His days passed by in fullness and in strength. There was all the work of maintaining the household (there were times when she made everything Thomas wore, except his shoes manufactured by a local artist), the Relief Society work going from town to town in a white-top, rearing her children with a firm but understanding hand, and entertaining the groups who made her home a half-way place between St. George and Salt Lake. It was when she was entertaining George Teasdale in early Scipio days that the dark burden of her life began to be lifted. By means of a casual remark of his she learned that her oldest daughter Susan in far-off England had joined the Church. The joining had been an outgrowth of the daughter's desire to find the mother so long denied her.
When Thomas, as unselfish as his wife, left his home work in Echo Canyon on the railroad that was soon to end the pioneer era. The money was used to bring Susan to Utah. Her coming was a happy time and did much to eradicate the suffering Elizabeth had borne these years in silence.
Another chance visitor, this time a traveling man Susan's husband was entertaining, noted a resemblance between Susan and a young woman he had seen in Michigan. Susan sent a letter which was advertised in Michigan papers and before long an answer came from Ella, the youngest living child of Elizabeth's first marriage. Money was sent for Ella and her husband to come West, and no person save a mother who has undergone a similar experience will understand the anguish Elizabeth endured during the waiting. What would her child be like? Would she love her mother, and would she understand why the separation had been? These and a hundred other questions racked the mother.
When Ella came, Elizabeth could ask for nothing more. "The loveliest of all her lovely daughters," everyone said. So much was Ella like her mother that it was hard to believe Elizabeth had not reared this child. A few years passed and Ella, too, became a member of her mother's Church.
Seventy-six years passed after the October 8, 1836, when Elizabeth Francis had been born in Devonshire. An illness kept her from temple work, and then another illness and she was gone to join Thomas, with whom she had found so much earthly happiness.
A few days after her death in December, her children found a note in a little box where she kept most of her most intimate effects. It read, "Should I die before fast day, I will owe tithing." And in the box was the amount of tithing. She had been prepared, even before she went forth to meet death.