By Hanson D. Puthuff. "ATUSCADERO" The Glory of the West By Harrison R. Merrill OT all who look upon the N glory of the West really see it until a master has touched their eyes. It is true that all who have unimpaired physical vision see the green of trees, the gold of sunlight, and the forms of mountains, snowcapped, through the mist of summer rains. They may feel elated, lifted by their vision of beauty, but there is glory hiding in the landscapes like a sprite that may not be seen except by those who have been transfigured by an inward genius or a protracted training. MAY of our pioneer fathers wonder now why they had never known the glory of Bryce or - the Grand Canyon, or even of some of our mountain peaks. They saw them all, but in their haste to ride through them or over them or to drive around them they had missed the glory of them, and?they had been without interpreters. AMONG the interpreters, the seers of western glories, few are so gifted as Hanson Duvall Puthuff, the California artist, whose rare and tender paintings of the Grand Canyon have won him the distinction of being one of its greatest interpreters, and whose rugged paintings of mountains have revealed their hidden glories. HANSON PUTHUFF has the genius to see and the art to reproduce what he sees. His paintings are alive and moving. With poetry. His colors sing of the glory of the out-of-doors?of the mystery of whispering trees, of the daring of overhanging bluffs, and of the splendors of western lights and shadows at evening. HIS summer Mr. Puthuff is coming to Utah. He is eager to see the glories of the Wasatch,. Of Utah deserts, Utah trees, and Utah streams. Encamped at the Alpine Summer School of Brigham Young University at Aspen Grove behind Timpanogos, from July 21 to August 22, he will attempt to interpret the Wonder Mountain in oils. Furthermore, he will assist others to interpret in the same media, as he is to teach-classes in art during the five weeks immediately following July 21 when the school opens. TAH artists and others will assemble to sit at the feet of the seer of western glories. Some of them will be seers, too; men and women who have learned to see in artistic unities. Fae West already has its interpreters, but it is to have more of them. We are fortunate who see well only after we have been shown, that the Wasatch Mountains draw the great artists, and that the Alpine Summer School makes them available as teachers. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN  MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - MRS. JULIA A. F, LUND - Mrs. Emma A. Empey Miss Sarah M. MeLeiland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rogannah C. Irvine Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - -- - Alice Louise Reynolds Manager - -- - - Louise -Y. Robison Assistant Manager -: - - - - - - - - Amy Brown LyMan Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah VOL, XVII JULY, 1930 No. 7 THE presentation of the late pageant, "The Message of the Ages," seems to have transcended the highest hopes and fondest expectations, for we cannot recall - hearing more general approbation of anything than of the recent pageant presented in the Tabernacle to celebrate the Latter-day Saint Centennial. It was a real fulfillment.