[Graham Crackers for Summertime Deserts by Sara Mills]

Graham Crackers for Summertime (Desserts Sara Mills A™ season of the year is the time of easy desserts, as far as I am concerned. In summertime the desserts on our table are made with very little manual labor.
Often as not they are graham cracker desserts. Favorites. I have culled for you a few of the family GRAHAM CRACKER PIE 3 eggs well beaten % c. Sugar (or less if desired) | Y, c.
Chopped walnuts 1 c.
Graham cracker crumbs-finely crushed raspberry jam or a tart jelly whipped cream Beat the eggs well.
Combine the sugar, crumbs, and walnuts. Add this mixture to the beaten eggs, and pour into a buttered pie pan, glass preferred.
Bake twenty to twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven (350°). Cool, spread with raspberry jam, and llotes on the Authors of the Lessons HIS year two writers, Elder Leland H.
Monson and Sister Leone Openshaw Jacobs, not previously represented among the authors of the lessons, are introduced to Relief Society members and readers of the Magazine. Elder Leland H. Monson, author of the Cannot determine - the article text is not visible in the provided PDF page images. top with whipped cream. Cut in wedges and serve. This pie can be baked in the cool of the morning of the day it is to be eaten, but never the day before, remember. It will serve six persons.

GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE

½ c. shortening (butter or margarine preferred)
1 tsp. salt
1 tsp. vanilla
¾ c. sugar
2 eggs separated

⅞ c. sifted flour
2½ tsp. baking powder
1¼ c. finely rolled graham cracker crumbs (about 15 crackers)
1 c. milk

Blend the first three ingredients. Add sugar and cream well. Add the egg yolks and beat well. Sift flour and baking powder together and mix with graham cracker crumbs. Add the dry ingredients alternately with milk to the egg mixture. Fold in the fluffy beaten egg whites. Bake in two greased eight-inch layer pans in a moderate oven (350°) for twenty-five minutes. Cool and serve with whipped cream and fresh fruit or your favorite icing. If you have an electric mixer use it for this cake.

LEMON ICE-CREAM PIE WITH GRAHAM CRACKER CRUST

1 rennet tablet
1 tbsp. cold water
2 c. light cream
½ c. sugar

2 tbsp. lemon juice
1 tsp. lemon rind
a few drops of yellow coloring if desired

Crush the rennet tablet in the cold water. Add sugar, lemon rind, and food coloring to cream. Warm slowly, stirring constantly. When the mixture is comfortably warm (test by dropping on arm), remove at once from heat and add dissolved rennet tablet. Stir quickly for a few moments only. Pour the mixture while still liquid into a refrigerator tray. Let set, then place in the freezing compartment and freeze until firm. Remove from tray to a bowl. Break with a fork, then beat with an electric beater until the mixture is free from lumps but still on the stiff side. Add the lemon juice and beat quickly. Return to freezing compartment. Just before serving, pour into graham cracker pie shell. Top with graham cracker crumbs if desired.

GRAHAM CRACKER CRUST

10 graham crackers
1 tbsp. flour

dash of salt, cinnamon, nutmeg
¼ c. melted butter or margarine

Combine the finely crushed crackers with flour and seasonings. Add melted butter and stir well. Press mixture into a pie plate suitable for serving and chill.

You may let your imagination riot with this graham cracker crust. In pie cherry time, serve pitted cherries cooked with cornstarch for thickening, seasoned generously with butter and a dash of cinnamon, and top with whipped cream. Or you may use crushed fresh raspberries or blackberries, sliced strawberries, or peaches, sliced and seasoned with nutmeg and cinnamon. Serve with whipped cream or ice cream.