[Relief Society Congratulates Newly Appointed Primary Presidency]

Relief Society Congratulates Newly Appointed Primary Association Presidency ELIEF SOCIETY members throughout the Church extend congratulations and best wishes to the new officers of the Primary Association, appointed May 16, 1951. Sister LaVern W. Parmley, the new president, has selected as her counselors two former board members, Arta M. Hale, as her first counselor, and Florence H.
Richards to be her second counselor.
These women are experienced, capable, and outstanding leaders, who will direct the Primary Association with enthusiasm, spiritual insight, and a sympathetic understanding of the boys and girls of the Church. Sister Parmley, wife of Dr. 'Thomas J.
Parmley of the University of Utah faculty, and daughter of Eugene and Gertrude Park Watts, of Murray, Utah, is the mother of a daughter and two sons. She has held many positions of responsibility in the Church, including service on the Bonneville Stake Primary Board, and has been a member of the general board of the Primary Association since 1941. In 1943
Sister Parmley was made second counselor to General President May Green Hinckley and was first counselor to Sister Adele Cannon Howells at the time of Sister Howells' death, April 14, 1951. Sister Parmley, a beloved leader, is much appreciated for her executive ability, for her warm friendliness, and her faith and sincerity. Sister Hale, who was born in Oakley, Idaho, a daughter of Harrison R. And Sarah Ann Williams Matthews, is the wife of C. Dewey Hale, dean of boys at South High School, Salt Lake City. She is the mother of two children, a daughter and a son. After her graduation from the University of Utah, Sister Hale taught school in Oakley, Idaho, and later, during World War II, resumed her profession as a teacher in the Granite District, 
458 
Photograph, Courtesy The Deseret News NEW PRESIDENCY OF THE PRIMARY ASSOCIATION Left to Right: First Counselor Arta M. Hale; President LaVern W. Parmley; Second Counselor Florence H. Richards. Salt Lake City. She filled a mission to the Eastern States before her martriage in 1928, and she has served with devotion and ability in all the women's auxiliary organizations of the Church. Sister Hale has personal charm, a happy and enthusiastic disposition, and much well-directed energy, qualities which will be of great value to her in her new position. She was appointed to the general board of the Primary in 1945. Florence H. Richards, a lovable and gracious woman, is the wife af Dr. Lorin L. Richards, a Salt Lake City dentist. She was born in Logan, Utah, the daughter of Heber A. And Martha Sweeten Holbrook. She is EDITORIAL ) 459 a graduate of the L. D. S. High School and has had much experience as an officer in the Y. W. M.1. A. And in the Primary Association. She was appointed to the Primary general board in 1946. Her friendly manner, her humble faith, and her love and understanding of children are attributes which qualify her as a competent and inspirational leader of youth. Sister Richards is the mother of a son and two daughters. Sister Dessie Grant Boyle, who was the second counselor to Sister Adele C. Howells, remains as a member of the general board, and will continue her devoted service on the editorial board of The Children's Friend and the board of the Primary Children's Hospital. The general board congratulates the sisters who have been called to preside over the Primary at this time and extends love, confidence, and best wishes to them. <i. G olden Wedding Alice Morrey Bailey Yours is the golden fruit of fifty years That sprang from chosen seed to bloom and grow, With rooted life from April's sun and tears And equal courage for the heat and snow, And we would trace your path and learn your ways, For we have seen recorded gentleness Here where the twining fretwork of your days Erected leafed and flowered loveliness. You stand upon an upper bough of time Unfearful of approaching winter's blast, Frosted with late-season's silver rime, Sun-sweet with mellowed wisdom to the last.
Returning youth for lips and cheeks and brow Could touch no more of beauty than is now.