The Birth of Christ Lydia B. Harris In the beautiful valley of Nazareth, In the hills of Galilee, Dwelt a charming maiden with golden hair, And a face that was fair to see. There also dwelt, in this goodly land, One whom the Lord loved well, Who became betrothed to this blue-eyed girl, And came with her to dwell. These two worthy souls had been chosen of God The guardians of Jesus to be, And only an angel sent down from above Could help them their mission to see. A more sacred, a more hallowed calling Ne'er has fallen to mortal man Than came to Mary and Joseph In fulfilment of God's great plan. With humble and prayerful hearts They communed with the Father above, They were willing to do his bidding, And he blessed them with his love. Now traditions tell us that in this land Lived a cowardly, worldly king Who, with his stern laws, did affliction Upon his people bring. A heavy unwonted taxation, Just to please his hunger and greed, For wealth, and gold and riches His law had strictly decreed. So, to show a record of all their estates, In obeying the King's command The people flocked into Bethlehem From every' part of the Land. "Twas a long and wearisome journey, They were hungry, and tired and cold, Among the throngs that had gathered Were Mary and Joseph, we're told. And Mary's frail being was weary, They could find no room at the inn; So, into a stable they wandered To get away from the din. "Twas that night was born a wee baby, Who in swaddling clothes, they say, Slept in his bed in the manger Awaiting the dawn of the day. His mother was joyful and happy, Not even the shepherds could doubt Why the bright star appeared in the heaven And the bright light shone all about. Who can think of a thing half so wondrous As that morn of the first Yule-tide, When the news that spread o'er Bethlehem Had been born a little child.: And angels sent forth the glad tidings A Savior was born; and then, They sang Glory to God in the highest, Peace on earth, good will toward men. Pa Coral J. Black It was ten o'clock in the. Morning on a chill December day. The large, colonial home, usually so full of gladsome confusion and delightsome odors, seemed strangely silent. A thin wisp of smoke feathered lazily from one broad chimney?the only visible token of life within. The spiral of smoke came from a small grate fire, in the front bedroom on the second story. It was a cozy room, large enough for a certain sense of airiness and freedom, yet small enough to emanate the comforting, delightful assurance 'of a close embrace. It was furnished richly, if somewhat after the style of a past decade?enlarged portraits adorned the walls, braided rugs were spread upon the floor, a hand-crocheted counterpane lent elegance to the plump bed, and the chairs were all carefully padded and cushioned with gay colored chintz. It was a room with personality and charm, and, yet, a soul. The soul of this delightful place sat in her beruffled Boston rocker at ten o'clock in the morning on this cold, raw Christmas day. The small, oval face still held a little of the beauty that had once been its boast. The white hair waved softly and naturally above a placid brow; the eyes, still clear and darkly blue, held the peaceful far-away look of one who gazes into the past. The hands, grasping two large wooden needles and a partly finished white wool jacket lay idly in her lap. From the thin lips came words, addressed to no one in particular, merely concrete thoughts, a habit the aged and lonely often acquire. But here was no confused jumble of thought, no vagaries of a weakened mind, but picture-words, drawing from the past vivid scenes of joy and sorrow, scenes passing in swift review before those retrospective eyes, as clearly and continuously as if projected by a cinematograph. "Can this really be Christmas, or is it merely a strange and perplexed dream from which I shall presently awaken?" Mellow and sweet the words fell upon the stillness of the lovely room and for a moment her gaze wandered from the holly-wreathed picture above her mantel to the handsome dressing gown thrown across the foot ef her bed and the dainty boudoir slippers peeping from beneath; to the silver inlaid dressing set, so lately stripped of its Christmas wrappings, the quaint jade necklace, the silken scarf. A smile hovered momentarily about the small mouth then with a slight shrug of the shoulders the voice continued: "I guess it's real enough but, but I suppose I should have gone to Mrs. PA. 617 Gregory's with the rest of the family. It was kind of her to include me in the invitation. Of course, Minnie never would have gone had she not done so; it took plenty of urging as it was. Minnie, what a dear daughter she is, so like her Pa. John is quite a bit like Pa, but Minnie is just Pa over again, the same shiny brown hair and hazel eyes, the same voice, and laugh, and loving ways. How fortunate I am to have such a home in which to spend the remainder of my life. But I would rather far be with Pa back on the'farm, back in that dear old h-home!" The voice quavered perilously for an instant than steadied. "We never had a quiet, lonesome Christmas like this on the farm. Why if Pa was here there would soon be sunlight and warmth and laughter. Pa had that way with him?could' dispel the darkest clouds like magic, no matter what trouble befell us, as soon as Pa put his dear arms around me, my heart began to sing like a robin in the springtime, 'cheer up, cheer up!' "Yes, and there would be children romping about, laughing and shouting with happiness. Pa just naturally loved all children, was just like an over-grown, rosy cheeked boy himself. Pa loved everyone. Love just grew with Pa like melons on a vine!" A wistful smile again curved the small mouth, the far-seeing eyes gazed steadily into the glowing coals, and after a moment's silence the voice continued: "How everyone laughed at Pa when he built the old farmhouse. We were young folks then, only two of us, yet in spite of all their jokes we went calmly ahead building an eight-room house. If he replied to their sly jests at all, it was only to maintain stoutly, that it would be small enough sometime. "Of course, it was years before it was all finished, but there came a time when every room was in use, not one to spare. Oh, dear old home, I wonder if your walls ring with as sweet music today as when Pa and all the children were ther?? Will there ever again be as much love and kindness gathered under one roof?" For a time there was silence in the little room save for the ticking of the clock and the sputtering of the dying fire, then the voice tremulous with emotion, resumed its spoken reverie: "After the children began to leave the old home, came the happy re-union at the holiday season. Christmas was set apart as Home Day and nothing was allowed to interfere with the gathering of our merry clan. And such loads of children, it seemed as if each Christmas brought a new face or two into the family circle. "For weeks beforehand Pa would spend his evenings making toys for the little tots, the cleverest things?seemed like Pa could do most anything and a few days before Christmas he would bring home a great pine tree, and loads of evergreens to trim the house. How he would whistle and sing as he decorated this room and that, hung the festoons of gaudy paper chains, and last the bit of mistletoe which gave him an, excuse for kissing each of our five 
 daughters-in-law before the day was over. I can see just how he looked, smiling at me over his spectacles and saying, "You know, Ma, 'stolen kisses are the sweetest. "How the big pantry fairly swaggered beneath its appetizing load. Pa said it made him hungry just to open the kitchen door and look inside. "How the rafters rang with laughter and the pattering of feet. How Pa enjoyed it all. He would help to stone the raisins, and blend the great pans of mincemeat. He would dress the strutting turkey and stuff the fat sausages. He would draw the amber cider from the barrels full and cold; would even help to stir the cakes and crimp the plump mince pies. "Oh, yes, Christmas was a wonderful day when Pa was here! Is there any beauty like that of bright-eyed, rosy-cheeked children? Any music to compare with their joyous laughter, and happiness like the love of one's mate?" "Yes, it was hard work, but oh, the recompense! Only where love abounds, does one ever find the reward commensurate with - the labor. Love and service, service and love. Ah me, how long it takes to learn that these two constitute life's perfect harmony! "I believe the hardest task I had was refusing the little ones a taste of this and a piece of that, for fear it would spoil their dinners. Yes and it was fully as hard to deny those half-grown boys, who punctuated their teasing with sly kisses. "The girls were willing, even anxious to help me, but they had acquired a lot of high toned notions at college that didn't seem to fit in with my ideas?like the oyster dressing John's wife made for the turkey one year, plain sage dressing was not good enough for her?and there poor Pa couldn't eat one bite of it! And so the girls left me to prepare the dinner but after it was over they just bundled me out of the kitchen while they put everything in order. "I hadn?t a single boy but preferred his mother's cooking to that of any other woman. I think that was because of Pa, he always bragged so much on everything I did, and told them, from the cradle up, that I was the best cook in the world. One by one I had to pursuade my boys that their loyalty in such matters belonged to the young wife and not the mother. But I could not help the glow of pleasure and satisfaction the knowledge gave me. "After dinner Pa was in his glory. He started the games with the children, told them stories, joined in their songs and chatter. The little ones would fairly swarm over Pa like he was good enough to eat. Some time later, Pa would bring in the foaming cider, pans of juicy apples, nuts and raisins. From then until the last load of babies disappeared he would urge this and that and the other on them. And the loads of things he sent home with them: boxes of apples, rolls of butter, jars of cream, hams, sausage, yellow pumpkins, baskets of eggs, dried sweet corn. Oh, the laughing and the PA 619 joking, and how they all loved Pa. Not a'single child but would gladly have stayed with him, not a baby that would leave him for its mother. "It was a farewell jest?'well you can't find anything else to give us, Pa, so we might as well go!' and Pa never failed to respond with a happy laugh, he enjoyed it, more than any of them. Was it any wonder they adored him when his every thought was of and for them? Oh, Pa, dearest, I'm so lonely without you, you who seemed the living embodiment of the Christmas spirit, who was love and tenderness, and Pa, I need you so!" Below a door opened and shut. The little woman started up, the white wool jacket and the wooden needles dropped unheeded to the floor.; ' "My goodness! It's Minnie and the children back, I wonder why? What can have happened?" A swift step on the stair and the door was thrown open. A girlish young woman hurried across the room and enveloped the fragile form in adoring arms.: a "Why, mother dearest, it's cold in here, and there's tears on your cheek, cherie, Oh, don't feel badly. I am so ashamed to have gone and left you!" "Why, daughter, it was all right. You should have stayed. I?I didn't even know about the'tears. I haven't been alone, or lonely dear, I've been having Christmas back in the dear old home with Pa and all of you." A sob shook the girl-woman. "I knew it mother, for Pa's reproachful eyes haunted me all through dinner, and as soon as I possibly could I came home. Oh, my dear, forgive me!" The slender hands drew the brown head, "'so like Pa's own," to her breast as she murmured. "Don't feel badly, Minnie, it doesn't matter. I?I rather like to be alone. Somehow I feel in closer touch with God; a more profound respect for heaven since Pa passed on. I know, dear heart, that if I find him there, eternity will be one long season of happiness for me."