GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 637 struck at his liberty, and banished him to the Isle of Patmos, a place of desolation and loneliness in the Aegean Sea, southwest from Ephesus., His contributions to scripture, though not voluminous, are of high value. The Fourth Gospel has been called the best by capable critics. The epistles of John have been given high place by scriptorians, and the Book of Revelations, with'its historical reach extending back of earth-life, and its prophetic illumniation shining beyond the millennium, is still waiting for interpretation. Questions and Problems 1. In the light of I John, 2:9-11, discuss the following statement: "Jesus loved John, because John loved others." 2. Correlate problem 1 with the following poem: ABOU BEN ADHEM Abou Ben Adhem (may his tribe increase!) Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace, And saw, within the moonlight in his room, Making it rich and like a lily in bloom, An Angel writing in a book of gold: Exceeding peace had made Ben Adhem bold, And to the Presence in the room he said, "What writest thou?" The Vision raised its head, And, with a look made all of sweet accord, Answered, "The names of those who love the Lord." "And is mine one?" said Abou. "Nay, not so," Replied the Angel. Abou spake more low, But cheerily still, and said, "I pray thee, then, Write me as one who loves his fellow-men." The Angel wrote, and vanished. The next night He came again, with a great wakening light, And showed the names whom love of God had blessed, And, Lo! Ben Adhem's name led all the rest! Leigh Hunt. 3. From the presentation of Revelations 12:7-10, show the historic reach of the revelations recorded by John. 4. Point out the prophetic reach of the revelations given to 'John. (See Revelations 21:1-4.) 5. Give evidence that all of the writings of John are not recorded in the Bible. (See Introduction to section 7, Doctrine and Covenants.) 6. On which day of the week were the revelations given to John on the Isle of Patmos? 7. What, of importance, to you, does the cyclopedia tell about the Isle of Patmos? 8. If John was, as some historians think, ten years younger than Jesus, how old was he when called to the apostleship? (Note: The historical quotations in this lesson are from the History of the Christian Church, by Schaff, vol. I.) 
 LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in February) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR FEBRUARY Civic PripE Clean-Home, Clean-Town Campaign (To cover the months of March, April, May, June; ending June 30) Note: As climatic conditions vary in different localities each stake will know best when to initiate the various features of its campaign., I. Stake and ward officers should make campaign plan. II. Relief Society teachers should discuss these plans, as they develop, in the homes they visit. Ill. Suggestions. 1. Types of work which ought to be considered: (a) Cleaning yards, ditches, alleys, streets, by removing such refuse as tin cans, bottles, weeds and trash of all sorts. (b) Giving attention to church grounds, public parks, school grounds, cemeteries, etc. (c) Seeing that all manure is hauled away and corrals and privies cleaned up early, thus destroying breeding places for flies. (d) Improving outside homes, churches, school-houses by painting, repairing, etc. (e) Preparing soil for vegetables, shrubbery and flowers. (f) Planting and gardening. 2. Prizes. Funds might be secured from business men and agencies for prizes to be offered at close of campaign, for special features; for group organizations gathering the largest pile of tin cans; for group gathering largest pile of weeds; for residence having the most attractive surroundings; for street having fewest weeds; for individuals having best shrubbery, best house plants, best cut flowers, etc., etc. IV.
