The Legend Of A Masterpiece How Raphael Painted His "Madonna of the Chair" on the Round Top of a Wine Cask Margaret Stephenson
The San Francisco Fair of 1939 brought from Italy one of the world's great paintings, Raphael's "Madonna of the Chair." Thus, to many thousands of us came our only opportunity to see this great masterpiece, for it is not probable that it will be shown in this country again, nor is it likely that many of us will have the good fortune to travel abroad and see this gem in its native setting. It has been called "the most beautiful picture in the world" this "Madonna della Sedia"; and while this is a sweeping statement, the whole world has long acknowledged the beloved painting as one of its treasures. Wherein lies the appeal of this picture? Is it the humanness of the little group, or does one deeply sense the divinity expressed in it? It seems almost too completely human to satisfy as the setting for a divine figure—indeed, divinity is symbolized only by faint halos over the heads of the Madonna and the adoring small St. John, and we know not whether to admire more the tenderness in the expression of the mother or the sweet gravity in the face of the child. So, perhaps, it is a mingling of qualities—the human and the divine—that endears the painting to all beholders. The "Madonna of the Chair" has been written of as the supreme picture of love, this absolute union of mother and child. Of no other of the Madonnas would this description be so true. A more perfect representation of mother love would be hard to find; therefore, it seems that its reputation is justly deserved.
There is a pretty and poetical legend told of this Madonna which also explains why the picture is circular in form. There once lived in the Italian hills, near Rome, a venerable hermit whose name was Bernardo. He built for himself a rude hut under a huge oak tree, where he spent his lonely days with only the music of the murmuring leaves for companionship. Old Bernardo loved but two things: this great oak and a girl named Mary, the beautiful daughter of the peasant owner of a vineyard nearby. Mary, who was not only fair of face, but kind of heart, daily carried food to the hermit; indeed, had it not been for Mary, old Bernardo would have known severe hunger. One day a storm wrecked his hut, and the hermit's life was saved only by his seeking refuge in the oak tree. Mary, in her anxiety for Bernardo, hastened to his rescue and took him to her home, where she tenderly cared for him until his death. Prior to his death, in a spirit of gratitude, he prayed God that the memory of these two, Mary and the oak tree, would live forever. It rarely seems to mortals that their prayers are answered, but this one was, as we shall see. Eventually the great oak was cut down, and its wood was made into wine casks. Mary grew to womanhood; she married and bore two children. She was a beautiful, dark-eyed country woman with no thought but that of joy in her children. Early one summer evening as Mary sat near an open window crooning to her last-born, with her elder son at her knee, a passing stranger looked into the courtyard and was entranced by the happy domestic scene. He stopped to admire it. At that moment, Raphael, for it was he, beheld the incomparable composition which he had so long desired. Genius was not necessary to appreciate the beauty of the scene, but genius such as Raphael's was necessary to capture the glory of motherhood in paint. Having no canvas at hand, he took the top of a wine cask nearby and sketched the group then and there in the soft Italian dusk. When the drawing was completed, he carried it away with him to his studio, and on this oaken barrel-head he finished the picture. It was the "Madonna della Sedia," commonly known as the "Madonna of the Chair." Thus was the prayer of the old hermit realized, and Mary and the oak received the crown of immortality. The picture was made at the time Raphael was working on decorations for the Vatican, between 1510 and 1514, when he was little more than twenty-five years of age.
Seldom has there been a more romantic or successful career than that of Raphael Sanzio. He was born on Good Friday in 1483, the son of a painter-poet. All of the circumstances of his life were peculiarly fortunate for the development of his art, and from his earliest years to the day of his death he seems to have been successful in everything that he attempted. Though highly gifted and very popular, he never allowed himself to fall into the snares which extreme popularity spreads before the idol of the hour. The great amount of work left by Raphael, and its excellence, are evidence that he did not waste his exceptional gifts or his time.
So great was his fame at the age of twenty-five that Pope Julius II summoned him to Rome to take part in decorating the Vatican. He so pleased Pope Julius and likewise his successor, Pope Leo X, that the Vatican became practically a museum of Raphael's works. Strangely enough, he died on Good Friday, just thirty-seven years from the day of his birth, and was buried in the Pantheon in Rome with all the honor due one of his genius. So far as is known, the great painting, "Madonna della Sedia," has always been a part of the State collection of the Medici. It was first mentioned in 1589 in a catalogue of pictures in the Tribuna of the Uffizi and was transferred some two hundred years later to the Pitti Palace in Florence. With the exception of a brief sojourn in Paris, as a result of Napoleon's plundering of Italian art treasures, and from whence it was returned to Florence in 1815, this masterpiece had never been out of Italy until it came, with other great paintings, to the San Francisco Fair. It was shown thereafter for short periods in Chicago and New York. Now it is at home again in the Pitti Palace in Italy where it is hoped it will hang unmolested through these turbulent times of plunder and destruction, so that future generations may see and enjoy its exquisite beauty.