Janet sounded the clarion call that always brought the little fellow running. He came panting up to his sister's side. A group of children, turning at Janet's cry and seeing the young man, came trooping behind Stevie. Janet put her arms around her brother. "This man wants to take our pictures for the Sunshine Lady," she said. Stevie favored the young man with one of his charming smiles, and the others crowded closer. Suddenly the camera clicked, and Janet knew that the ordeal was over. "That was easy, wasn't it?" grinned the young man. "Take our pictures, too!" cried the others, so the obliging young man gathered them all into a nice group and took their pictures, too. Then, just as the bell sounded to call them back into the building, he vaulted over the fence again and was away with a wave of his hand. JANET thought she had better tell Teacher what had happened, but there was no need. The children went chattering into their room. They gathered around their teacher crying, "We had our pictures taken! We had our pictures taken!" It all came out, then, and Janet could see that Teacher was worried. She got the children busy at their tasks and then left the room. When she returned, she said nothing about the pictures, but went on with the work. Janet wondered what had happened, but it was too late to change it now?unless the superintendent telephoned to the Sunshine Lady. That would end it all. That would be too bad. Janet went to bed, worrying about tomorrow. But at last she fell asleep so deeply that she was unprepared for the brightness of the sun when she awoke the next morning. She didn't have time even to slip out of bed before the superintendent entered the dormitory. She came and sat on the edge of Janet's cot. She held the morning newspaper in her hand.
"Look, Janet," she said gently. Janet looked. There on the page held toward her was the picture of her and Stevie. She looked rather wide-eyed and serious, almost ready to cry, she thought. Her freckles didn't show very much, and she really looked kind of pretty. But Stevie! My, he was cute, smiling and dimpled and his freckles shining out from the page. Janet wanted to kiss him as he stood there in the picture, in the shelter of his sister's arm.
"It's a lovely picture, isn't it?" smiled the superintendent. Janet nodded. She couldn't speak.
"Shall I read you what the Sunshine Lady says?" Miss Thomas asked. Then she read the story, which told of Janet's trouble in getting her letter mailed to the Sunshine Lady, and then, printed nice and wide and in black letters so it was easy to read, was Janet's letter, exactly as she had written it.
"I am going to let that letter speak for itself," the Sunshine Lady wrote after the letter, "Can it be possible that in this city there is no heart generous enough to answer it?"
"Do you know, Janet, this letter of yours is going to get you a fine home, I am sure. Already this morning I have had half a dozen phone calls about you?people who want to take both you and Stevie into their hearts. Of course, they must come here and talk to you, and you don't have to go with anyone till you find the right one, but I am sure that among the nice people that have called there will be someone who has just the kind of home you want for Stevie."
"Now," she put on a business-like air, "you'd better get up and get dressed. Have Connie comb your hair prettily and put a ribbon on it. You won't need to go to the schoolroom today, because it will interrupt the work to keep calling you out. Go to the playroom instead, or to the library, and I'll send for you when I think it is necessary."
At the door she stopped and came back and put her arms around Janet. "You're a sweet child," she said tenderly, "we are all going to miss you?and Stevie. But little girls must have homes...."
"Oh," Janet felt a sudden pang of anguish. They had been good to her. "Oh, it isn't me so much. I like it here, really I do. But Stevie needs to get out in the country...."
Miss Thomas smiled and kissed Janet. "It's all right," she said, and left the room quickly.
Janet had never spent such an exciting day in her whole life. Every little while Miss Thomas would send for her, and she would go down to the parlor and there would be a nice man and woman, and they would ask Janet to go home with them and be their little girl. And they wanted Stevie, too. Janet was too bewildered to think, and Miss Thomas told her not to try to think today, but just to wait.
Toward the middle of the forenoon, Janet opened the parlor door to find the smiling young man who had taken her picture and a lovely, lovely lady with golden hair. She caught her breath. "The Sunshine Lady!" she whispered.
The Sunshine Lady bent down and put her arms about Janet. "How's it going, Janet," she asked. "Are nice people coming? Do you think you will find a good home for you and Stevie?"
"Oh, yes!" breathed Janet. She drew in deep breaths, the better to smell the sweetness of the glorious creature. "Oh, yes. They are all nice, very nice. But there have been so many?."
"Take your time, kid," grinned the young man. "You've got 'em coming, so be choosy!"
"Have Mr. and Mrs. Allen?Robert Allen?been in yet?" the Sunshine Lady asked Miss Thomas over Janet's head.
"Not today," Miss Thomas answered in surprise. "Mrs. Allen was in a few days ago, but not today."
"She called me early this morning," the Sunshine Lady explained, "even before I was out of bed. She'd seen the paper and remembered seeing Stevie and Janet when she was here. She said she would be in first thing this morning, just as soon as her husband returned from Green City. I thought she might have come before now."
After some more talking and joking, the two left, but not before the Sunshine Lady had promised, "We're going to be great friends, Janet. I'll see you often, no matter where you go."
Janet went back to the library. She felt very happy, and it seemed as if the floor under her feet had suddenly become a floor of rubber balloons, so light she felt as she ran along the corridor. She hadn't even begun to read a story when she was called back into the parlor. She went eagerly. Somehow, she felt sure this was to be the right one. And it was!
There in the parlor was the kind-looking, beautifully-dressed woman whose visit a few days earlier had started the whole affair. With her was a man, who, somehow, looked almost as boyish as Stevie.
Miss Thomas introduced Janet to Mr. and Mrs. Robert Allen. Janet smiled shyly. "Yes, I know," she said.
"You know, Janet?" queried the woman with interest. "But how?"
"I saw you when you were in the schoolroom. I was praying that you'd take us."
"You dear child!" The woman knelt beside Janet as the Sunshine Lady had done. "How callous and unseeing grownups are," she said. "Can you forgive me, and would you really like to live with us?"
"Oh, yes!" Janet didn't have to try to make this sound convincing.
"How can you tell?" Janet looked into the kind eyes. "I can tell," was all she could say.
The man knelt down, too. "Do you think Stevie will like us, too?"
"Of course," smiled Janet.
"Then it's all settled, as easy as that?" asked the man, turning to Miss Thomas.
Miss Thomas smiled. "As easy as that!" she said. Then she added, "I explained everything to Mrs. Allen when she was here the other day. There are some formalities, but they won't take long. Do you want to take the children now or come back for them?"
"Oh, let's take them now. We've been slow enough about this business already. Just think, we might have lost them entirely!"
So Stevie was brought, and the good news was told to him. He accepted it with a shy smile. He had known that they'd get a home some time. The two children gathered their possessions and by the time they had told everyone goodbye and were ready to leave, Mr. and Mrs. Allen were ready, too.
Janet and Stevie were very quiet as they climbed into the big sedan at the side door. Mr. Allen said, "Do you want to sit up here in front with me, Stevie? We'll let the womenfolk have the back seat to gossip in."
As the car rolled along the highway in the bright April sunshine, Janet looked back at the Home. She didn't know whether it was tears in her eyes or whether the sun had suddenly gone behind a cloud, but everything looked dim and wavering. Stevie and Mr. Allen were talking dogs and baseball in an intimate way. They seemed to have forgotten the other two, and Janet felt a twinge of loneliness.