Janet smiled tremulously. "Oh," she apologized for Stevie, "he doesn't mean anything. You know how boys are!"
"Yes, I know," laughed the woman, "but girls... Well, they're different, aren't they? We're going to have a job taking care of those two, Janet." And she bent and kissed the top of Janet's head.
The sunshine was shining again. From a turn on the hill road, Janet looked back. The Home was smiling in the sun.
"And whatsoever ye shall do, ye shall do it in my name; therefore ye shall call the Church in my name; and ye shall call upon the Father in my name that he will bless the Church for my sake.
"And how be it my Church save it be called in my name? For if a Church be called in Moses' name then it be Moses' Church; or if it be called in the name of a man then it be the Church of a man; but if it be called in my name then it is my Church, if it so be that they are built upon my gospel.
"And if it so be that the Church is built upon my gospel then will the Father show forth his own works in it." (Book of Mormon, III Nephi 27:7, 8, 10.)
Why Adults Should Drink Milk
Today pure milk is conceded by everyone to be an ideal food for infants and growing children. Unfortunately, drinking milk is often looked upon as something for children and invalids, and the milk-drinking adult is looked upon with derision and raised eyebrows. Modern science offers evidence to overcome this prejudice, showing that a hearty consumption of milk promotes strength and virility as well as general good health. Every heavyweight champion of the last ten years has used milk and dairy products freely, and these are prominent on the training table for college athletes. Nowadays the workman's dinner pail includes a bottle of milk because working men find it gives strength and steadier nerves. An official of a large commercial organization found that the efficiency of his office force could be improved at least 25 per cent by giving them a glass of milk at 3:30 each day. The fatigue which sets in about that time is postponed by drinking milk. Children, we are told, should have a quart of milk a day, and adults not less than a pint. Because an adult has more or less ceased to grow, he does not need the growth promotion qualities, but does need its general sustaining virtues and nutritive value. Milk, called the "perfect food," contains practically every one of the food elements needed to maintain human life. It has fat, carbohydrate, protein, minerals, fluids and vitamins?a combination unequalled by any other single food. You'll enjoy —Y v the grandnew §,/ J; flavor of AVA / — ie] Cloverleaf Homogenized "Eream-ful". MILK It tastes better—smoother and richer—because _ all the cream is evenly distributed through' every drop. Try this improved milk. Phone us today. CloverleafHOME OF FINE DAIRY PRODUCTS ITS THRIFTY toCock and Heat Water SEE "YOUR ELECTRIC RANGE DEALER