50th ANNIVERSARY YEAR é 3 al & oC zZ S a foe] Margery S. Stewart The gulls are proud Of the weather today, It is the stuff they are made of — Gray, riffling feathers of clouds, Breath-stopping, silvery slide of the sun Suddenly on wing tip of evening. The gulls rest high on the gray Breast of their mother, the storm, Ride on the rising shoulders of sea, Their sire. Gray of the gulls, gray of the storm All one essence And bound In the silvering falling sun And sound Of the deep crying of the winding wind. The Cover: /View in the International Peace Gardens, Salt Lake City, Utah Color Transparency by Leland Van Wagoner Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Seagulls and the Sea, Monterey, California Photograph by David Muench Art Layout: 'Dick Scopes Illustrations: | Mary Scopes la ~"y —* I really enjoy The Relief Society Magazine, and it comes in very handy in our missionary work, 'Thanks very much for your attention and help. —Elder Michael C. Kenyon Ouilmes, Argentina We enjoy our Magazine so very much. It is so. Beautiful. With the color, the wonderful articles and stories, and the pictures in the Notes From the Field, together with the messages from the General Authorities of the Church and the General Board of Relief Society. —Charlotte M. Burleigh ~~ President Woodruff Stake Relief Society Evanston, Wyoming I surely enjoyed "Let's Have a Bake Party" in the March issue of the Magazine (by Mary S. Kemp); also, I enjoyed "Sewing Success" by Helen Lach, as I do a lot of sewing. "Ribbons and Roses" (page 204) was used for a project in our work meeting. I enjoyed that whole issue. It was so colorful and interesting. —Mrs. Violet B. Coletti Alexandria, Virginia I enjoy very much the recipes and the sewing tips, but it would be difficult to single out any one feature of the Magazine as being best. —Breta Hiate Salem, Oregon The Relief Society Magazine is one of our good missionary tools. By leaving the Magazine with one of our contacts, or with a friend who is ill, and pointing out two or three special articles in the Magazine that will interest her, she becomes interested and welcomes us when we come back. —Elder and Sister Stanley Adams Sydney, Nova Scotia Canada 562 Since coming to Australia on a mission, I have heard many wonderful comments from members and nonmembers in regard to The Relief Society Magazine. 1 had a note from a nonmember investigator which said, "I was so interested I had to read it through before turning off the lights. It is a good, well-balanced publica: tion." At a meeting in Sydney, a little elderly lady said she had been a subscriber for thirty years, and never once had a Magazine been late or gone astray. We appreciate your thoughtfulness in sending the publication to us as a proselyting tool. —Vivian Coombs President Australian Mission Relief Society So many of the features in the Magazine are outstanding, and many bring back poignant memories of my girlhood, but the one I like especially is the feature page "From Near -and Far." After I have looked at the beautiful cover, I have to admire the frontispiece, then I eagerly read the messages from the other. Sisters — almost like a personal visit with the many members of the world-wide sisterhood. —Elda L. Haycock Hagerman, Idaho I wish to thank you for the most inspirational Magazine. I love and apprectate it and enjoy reading the stories and lessons each month. In fact, I wait each month for the new Magazine to come. As a young girl, I started reading the stories in my mother's Magazine, and since then I have found it hard to leave the copies alone. I am impressed with each visiting teacher message. Each one is just what I need at the time. It is a joy to present such wonderful lessons and messages. The Magazine is giving me a rich and wonderful education and helps to build my testtmony. —Mrs. Charlotte Elliott Livermore, California 

The Rehef society Magazine AUGUST 1963 WOLUME 50 NUMBER 8 Editor: Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor: Vesta P. Crawford General Manager: Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 564 Relief Society — A Blessing to Young Women' Belva Barlow 568 He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part III President Wilford Woodruff Preston Nibley 578 Part of the Fragrance Ann G. Hansen 589 The Second Mile Ruth L. Jones Fiction 570 The Missing Papers Dorothy Clapp Robinson 580 Somebody Cares Betty Lou M. Smith 603 Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 2 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 562 From Near and Far 577 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 586 Editorial: The Power of Example Louise W. Madsen 588 Notes to the Field: The Relief Society Annual General Conference Visual Aid Packet Available for 1963-64 Literature Lessons 609 Notes From the Field Hulda Parker 640 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and out 591 Peach-Stone Jelly Mary L. Allred 591 Clear Up Sewing Clutter Shirley Thulin 592 Stretching the Food Budget Part I — Dry Milk Marion Bennion and Sadie O. Morris 596 Versatile Cottage Cheese Margaret F. Maxwell 598 Felt Bootees for Baby Audrey King 601 Hints fora Happy Day Janet W. Breeze 602 Martha B. Anderson Makes Afghans of Original Designs Lessons for November 616 Theology — "Ye Are on the Lord's Errand" Roy W. Doxey 622 Visiting Teacher Messages - "Wherefore, If Ye Believe Me." Christine H. Robinson 623 Work Meeting — Planning for the Future Virginia F. Cutler 625 Literature — Huck Finn's Initiation Into Truth Briant S. Jacobs 632 Social Science — The Organization of the Church Ariel S. Ballif Poetry 561 Seascape — Frontispiece Margery S. Stewart. Prodigal Son's Mother, by Pauline Bell, 567; Brilliance, by Catherine B. Bowles, 576;~ The Willow Tree, by Alice Morrey Bailey, 585; Terns, by Claire Noall, 585; The Canyon Water Front, by Anna B. Hart, 589; Signs, by Ida Elaine James, 590; Art Exhibit, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 637; Sunset Art, by Pearle M. Olsen, 638; Street Lights, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 638; Summer, by Leora Larsen, 638; Friend, by Lottie H. Singley, 640. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Sait Lake City 11, Utah; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscripti6n expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts RELIEF SOCIETY A Blessing to Young Women Belva Barlow Member, General Board of Relief Society Children are what their mothers are. No fondest father's fondest care Can fashion so the infant heart. —Walter Savage Landor I. THE above quotation is true, how necessary it is for us, as Relief Society sisters, to prepare ourselves for this noble calling of motherhood. And if, as is stated, the first five or six years are the most significant in determining a person's character, then proper early guidance of a child is of extreme importance. President Brigham Young stated that "The mothers are the moving instruments in the hands of Providence to guide the destinies of nations." And in this light we should evaluate our present or future tasks as homemaker, wife, and mother. Because the future lies in the hands of the young, it is to the young women of the Church that I address myself. Young women have always played a significant part in shaping the destinies of mankind; young women made the long and arduous voyage with an unknown future to the "New World" in answer to their husbands' cries for freedom; young women endured the rigors and privations of the cold New England winters with the barest of necessities; they moved westward across the 564 Appalachians into a wild, lonely country and lived in the shadow of death from cold, hunger, or illness; later yet, for their faith, they made the perilous trek over mountains and plains to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, leaving loved ones buried back along the trail. These are but a few examples of how young women have met the challenges of their days. We can and must meet the challenge of our day. The victor's crown is the same; only the setting changes. Emerson said, "Success treads on every right step." Of all women, we in the Church should take the "Tight" steps, and for this purpose the Relief Society was organized. President Joseph F. Smith said the Relief Society would be a great organization when the young women of the Church would join it. We want the young women, the intelligent women, women of faith, of courage and of purity to be associated with the Relief Societies of the various stakes and wards of Zion. We want them to take hold of this work with vigor, with intelligence and unitedly, for the building up of Zion and the instruction of women RELIEF SOCIETY — A BLESSING TO YOUNG WOMEN in their duties — domestic duties, public duties, and every duty that may devolve upon them (Gospel Doctrine, 1956 Edition, page 387). I think it can as truthfully be said that the young women of the Church will be great when they place themselves in a position to receive the blessings available through participation in the Society. Wen a group of sisters went to the Prophet in 1842 with a constitution and by-laws for the purpose of establishing a ladies' society, the Prophet stated that the constitution and by-laws were the best he had ever seen. He then continued, "But this is not what you want. Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord, and He has something better for them than a written constitution " (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 14). On March 17, 1842, the Prophet organized the Relief Society "after a pattern of the priesthood." In April of that year, the Prophet again met with the sisters and on that occasion said: This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act accordin to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosom. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates (DHC IV, page 605). The Prophet's appraisal of woman's nature strikes a responsive chord in each of us. He did not say that charity and benevolence are the nature of married women only, or of elderly women only, or of young women only. Such characteristics apply to all women — single girls, brides, mothers, and grandmothers. It is according to our natures, if we cultivate it, to have compassion, to love truth, to appreciate beauty, to love all children, and to be kind, generous, thoughtful, and honest. To reach perfection in these qualities, I readily agree, requires intense effort and vigilance. Though it is not easy, we are blessed to have innate urgings in this direction. The journey of life is a most exciting one, but it is fraught with many difficulties. Relief Society is an important vehicle, organized under divine inspiration, to help us make this journey successfully. For a woman to embark on this trip of life without the aid of Relief Society can be likened to journeying hundreds of miles on foot rather than using modern means of transportation. Such a person might weary and never reach her destination, or, if she does, she might be much the worse for wear. And yet many young women today are embarking on this all-important journey of life "on foot." Tue Relief Society was founded to help us shape our lives and the lives of our loved ones while young; it was established to make the journey back to our Father in heaven pleasant and rewarding and, in large measure, to assure our "artrival." President Brigham Young told the sisters that... These societies are for the improvement of our manners, our dress, our habits and our methods of living.... Can you 565 AUGUST 1963 tell the amount of good that the mothers and daughters in Israel are capable of doing? No, it is impossible. And_ the good they will do will follow them to all eternity (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 216). This is the purpose of the Society. The Relief Society is not just "another"? Woman's organization. As the First Presidency wrote on July 3, 1942: We ask our sisters of the Relief Socicty never to forget that they are a unique organization in the whole world, for they were organized under the inspiration of the Lord bestowed upon that great Prophet.... No other woman's organization in all the earth has had 'such a birth (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 7). Inasmuch as the gospel of Jesus Christ is not a gospel of "receiving" only, we are each expected to "give" — time, talents, leadership, service, substance. In so doing we are assured of "receiving" — faith, testimony, opportunities, growth, guidance. In this age of "give-tome-tooism,' the need for honorable women desirous of serving is urgent — urgent for the salvation of man in general, and for the exaltation of man individually. The Relief Society motto "Charity Never Faileth" strives to encompass the full measure of giving and growing. In addition to being unique as a woman's organization because of its divine origin and blessing under the Priesthood of God, the Relief Societv is unique in another very important way — in the magnitude and diversity of its program. Can you name a similar organization in which, prophets declare, can be found "intellectual, cultural and spiritual values... Sufficient for all 566 general needs of its members"? (Ibid., page 7). Membership in social, fraternal, altruistic, literary, theological, musical, and_ other groups provides opportunities to serve, to learn, to grow. Relief Society provides all of these opportunities under divine direction. We have been counseled that Relief Society. Members should permit no other _ affiliation either to interrupt or to interfere with the work of the Society. They should give to Relief Society service precedence over all social and other clubs and societies of similar kinds (Ibid., page 7). And why not, if by so doing, "angels cannot be restrained from being your associates''? Is there any woman whose soul is not enlarged by being part of a well-trained Singing Mothers chorus? Is there any woman who does not grow by doing reading, researching, and preparing in order to present a stimulating lesson? Can one fail to be touched and strengthened when, at the conclusion of a study of the scriptures, a fervent, humble testimony is borne? Does any one of us lack appreciation of the importance of learning how to become a more efficient worker, organizer, planner, doer? Having helped someone in need, or having received help through compassionate service, can one deny the great thrill and blessings which come to both the servant and the recipient? In all fairness, we must answer all of these queries with a resounding "No!" There are few things in life to which a woman can so unreservedly devote her energies with the assur- RELIEF SOCIETY — A BLESSING TO YOUNG WOMEN ance that her efforts are well founded and directed, as she can to the program of the Relief Society. 'The scriptures are full of admonitions and parables conceming the importance of seeking the Lord and his purposes while young. And so it is also with the work of the Relief Society — those who find it early in life have an eternal advantage. Let us accept the admonition and direction of the Prophet Joseph Smith and "live up to our privileges." Let us diligently strive to increase within ourselves the nghteous qualities of character which are "according to our natures." 'The manifold blessings which the Lord has promised his righteous daughters will then be ours. We live in a glorious time when the fulness of the gospel has been restored, but the powers of evil are everywhere about us. We must take every precaution to arm ourselves with righteousness and faith. I hope, as young women of the Church, we will reach out to life and find joy and excitement in helping the cause of nghteousness to prosper. 'The voung women of the Church should have an optimism about life and show courage and perseverance equal to that of our noble progenitors. We have been told by the prophets of God that many choice spirits have been reserved for this dispensation. Let us rejoice at the privilege which is ours of living at this time — prior to the return of the Savior — and dedicate our efforts toward this glorious fulfillment. As a young Relief Society sister, I bear testimony of the great blessing and strength that Relief Society can be in one's life and pray that young women throughout — the Church will heed the admonition of the Brethren — to place ourselves and our loved ones in a position to enjoy the blessings promised through working in this divinely organized Society. Prodigal Son's Mother Pauline Bell Oh, son, my son, you have come home again! Be glad, dear heart, it was not in vain. Now mother's eyes no longer run In tears for you, oh, son, my son. Let's celebrate and make amends, Rejoice, rejoice, call all our friends. Delicious things of earth now bring — The lost one has returned — let us sing! And you, my firstborn, faithful son, Continue now, as you have done. Oh, let all jealousy depart, depart. My son, you are the pure in heart. 567 Part III — President Wilford Woodruff ILFORD WoopRUFF, the fourth President of the Church, was born at Farmington, Connecticut, March 1, 1807. In his youth he assisted his father in farming and in the operation of a flour mill. When he was twentythree vears of age he joined with his brother in purchasing a 140 acre farm at Richland, New York. Two Latter-day Saint elders visited Richland in 1833 and_ held meetings. Wilford heard the gospel and was baptized. In 1834 he went to Kirtland, Ohio, where he met the Prophet Joseph Smith. He then joined Zion's Camp in the march to Missouri. In 1839 he was made a member of the quorum of 'Twelve Apostles and sent on a mission to England. In 1847, after the death of the Prophet Joseph, he followed Brigham Young and the saints in the march to Salt Lake Valley. Following the death of President Young, in August 1877, John 'Taylor became the President of the Church, and Wilford Woodruff the President of the Twelve Apostles. When John Taylor died in 1887, Wilford Woodruff succeeded him as President of the Church. He died in 568 Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian August 1898 at the age of ninetyone. Following are a few excerpts from his sermons: "The first time I ever saw Joseph Smith was-in April 1834. I met him in the streets of Kirtland [Ohio]. He invited me to his house. I stopped with him while preparing to go to Zion in Zion's camp. "On Sunday he called a priesthood meeting. They all gathered in a little cabin. There I first heard Joseph Smith speak publicly, also Hyrum Smith, Oliver Cowdery, Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, Parley and Orson Pratt and William E. McLellin. The Prophet called upon the elders to bear testimony of the gospel of Christ and they — arose one after another and bore a short testimony (MS. 54:605). "Tt has been my faith and belief, from the time that I was made acquainted with the gospel, that no greater prophet than Joseph Smith ever lived on the face of the earth, save Jesus Christ. He was raised to stand at the head of this great dispensation — the greatest of all dispensations God has ever given to man (JD 21:317). "Joseph Smith was what he pro- fessed to be, a prophet of God, a seer and revelator. He laid the foundation of this church and kingdom, and lived long enough to deliver the keys of the kingdom to the elders of Israel, unto the twelve apostles. He spent the last winter of his life, some three or four months, with the quorum of the twelve, teaching them. It was not merely a few hours ministering to them the ordinances of the gospel, but he spent day after day, week after week and month after month, teaching them and a few others the things of the kingdom of God (Ibid., 13:164). "Those who have been acquainted with the Prophet Joseph, who laid the foundation of this church and kingdom, who was an instrument in the hand of God in bringing to light the gospel in this last dispensation, know well that every feeling of his soul, every sentiment of his mind and every act of his life, proved that he was determined to maintain the principle of truth, even to the sacrificing of his life. His soul swelled wide as eternity for the welfare of the human family. He began entirely alone, as far as the influence of the children of men was conHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH President Wilford Woodruff cerned, upon the earth, to endeavor to establish a religion and order of things diverse from anything then existing among men, a religion that was unpopular and contrary to the feelings and views and traditions of the whole human family (Ibid., 2:192). "There is another instance that occurs to my mind. A certain man took a stand against Joseph and endeavored to bring persecution upon him. Joseph went to his God and laid the matter before him, asking to be delivered out of the hands and power of that wicked man. Joseph was a prophet, a seer, a revelator. He was acquainted with God; he knew the voice of the spirit when it spoke to him" (Ibid., 24:55-6). 569 Dorothy Clapp Robinson Tsu Hawortu wiped her hands carefully, folded the towel exactly, and hung it on a rod reserved for used towels. She rubbed lotion into her hands. "T hope," she said aloud, a habit she had acquired since being a widow, "that Mr. Ludlow won't think all I do is wash dishes — but I suppose even lawyers' wives get dishpan hands." That reminded her. She should get those papers and put them in her handbag. This was to be a full day. After delivering the papers to the lawyer's office, she and Mel, her friend, were having lunch at The Mode. Afterward they were driving up the canyon to spend the afternoon. This time of the year the gold and scarlet of the hills made driving a delight. 'Then they were driving home in the moonlight. 570 In her bedroom Tish opened a closet and chose a sweater and skirt and laid them on the bed beside the black handbag. "Why did I put that there?" she asked herself. "That is nothing to take to the hills. Pll take my knitting bag, and maybe while we are lounging on the grass I can finish Opal's sweater." She put away the black bag in a drawer and went to another drawer for her knitting bag. Her billfold was lying on the dresser. She tucked it under the nearly completed sweater. Now for the papers. She went to her desk and opened the upper right-hand drawer. She looked, then looked again. It wasn't possible. 'The packet of legal papers was not there. "T advise you take these papers home and read the fine print," Mr. Ludlow had said when he handed them to her. "Come back in a week, and we will get them signed and filed." "T may not understand a word but I will read every word, and I will bring them back good as new." "T'm sure you will. I have always found you to be a very careful, orderly person." Glowing from the compliment, Tish had been very careful where she placed the papers. It had taken her a week to read the fine print on the three pages, but each time after reading she had returned them to the left-hand slot of the nght-hand upper drawer. They must be there. Her reputation was at stake. "You are too fussy," her daughter Irene had once said to her. "Some of these days that habit is going to backfire. You get so upset when anything is changed." Okay, if that was what Irene wanted to call it, but the papers had to be mght here. She never misplaced things. But nothing she could see even faintly resembled legal papers. "Okay, if I must." She sat down and very patiently, very methodically Started going through the drawers of the desk. Disgusted and bewildered, she slammed the last one closed. "Now let me think." Then, "I might have put them in the paper fle. What was I doing the last time I read them?" F rom the top shelf of a big closet she lifted down an envelope file. Would she have put them under L THE MISSING PAPERS for lawyer, or under H for home? She was so bothered she wasn't thinking straight. Then the telephone rang. "Mother." It was Irene. "I just wanted to make sure you hadn't forgotten that Sharon plays at PTA tonight. You said you were going with me.... Mother — are you there?" "Yes-s. Tl be there," Tish answered, after catching her breath. But she had forgotten. She had this day planned to the last minute. She was having lunch with Mel, her friend, and they had planned a drive up the canyon. The colors were so beautiful this time of the year. They were to have their dinner at Idaho City and enjoy a leisurely trip home by moonlight. The dinner and the leisurely drive were out. PTA was at eight o'clock. And if she was to get a parking space anywhere near The Mode she had better hurry. Well, the papers couldn't hide much longer. 'THE papers were not under L, nor under H, nor under A, B, C, D. In fact, they were not in the file at all. She hadn't expected them to be. They were in the desk. She might not be a brain, but she was methodical, The telephone rang again. "Tish...." It was Helen, a friend of many years. "May I use that poem you wrote about the river road? It is so beautiful and just what I need to finish out a talk I am giving." "T would love letting you use it." "Oh, thanks a lot. I'll be right over after it." 571 AUGUST 1963 "Don't do that." A wave of panic hit Tish. "I'm supposed to be leaving this very minute. [I'll slip it in an envelope and mail it to you. Or [ll take it to you tomorrow." "Goodness," 'Tish said after she had hung up. "Why did she pick this morning to ask for that?" Brrore she reached her desk the telephone rang. Ignore it, but Tish couldn't. It was the president of the garden club to which Tish belonged. "Tish, I have been thinking about that project for buying shrubs for that new nursing home...." "Beulah, mav I talk to vou about that later? I am in a jam right now." "Of course. But since you are the treasurer I thought you should have some say-so about the projects we put on to raise money for the shrubs." "Beulah." "I know — and I am not going to keep you, but I have called a meeting for the officers for tonight, and naturally we must have you there." "I have decided I am not going to be treasurer." "How can you say such a thing? You were elected, weren't you, and you consented." "Yes, but." Tish glanced at her watch. "I might lose the money, or misplace it and." Beulah laughed. ""That is a laugh, when everyone knows how orderly and methodical you are. But I know you are in a hurry so I am not going to detain you. But I do want vou to be at the meeting. 'There 572 are some other things to discuss, too. I hope we get a good representation of the membership to back us in this. Some of the members — but you are in a hurry. Ill talk to vou later." Sighing with relief, Tish went back to her desk. What was it she was supposed to get? Oh, yes, the poem. From a larger drawer she brought out a legal-sized leather folder. She kept her current writings in it. She flipped through the contents — now don't tell — she glanced at her watch again. The telephone rang. It was Mel. "Do you know what time it is?" Mel asked. "We won't get a parking spot nor a table." "I know." 'Tish tried to hide her impatience. "I'll be there in a few minutes." Back at her desk she zipped up the case and returned it to a drawer. "I'll get back in time to put the poem in the mail. It is too late to go to Mr. Ludlow's office now." Slightly relieved, she dressed hurriedly and drove her car the six blocks to Mel's home. As Mel swung into the seat beside her she frowned at Tish. "Now what is wrong?" Tish demanded. "Nothing, of importance. You have earrings of two different sets. Maybe you meant it that way." Tish glanced in the mirror above the wheel. She yanked the earrings and put them in her sewing bag, then she fished around until she found lipstick. Uptown she did find a parking lot and they did find a table. "What will you have?" Startled, Tish looked up. Mel had given her order. 'The waitress was waiting. "Oh, I." She was not going to acknowledge she had not read the menu. "I'll take the same." "J didn't think you liked tuna loaf," Mel said when the waitress had gone. 'Tish was acting queer, she thought. Usually Tish talked incessantly. "I'm sorry, Tish, if you didn't want to come." "Of course I wanted to come." The injured note in Mel's voice irritated her a little. "It is just that I hate to tell you. I must be back early. I promised to go to PTA to hear Sharon play. I had forgotten this was the night." "We could put the trp off until tomorrow." "Tomorrow might be worse. I haven't any idea right now what I might have to do." If she had an idea, she wasn't going to tell Mel. After they had left town behind and were on the river road, Mel brought up the subject of the PTA. "Sometimes I think our girls expect too much of us. They want to be waited on." Tish remembered Mel had a car of her own sitting in her garage unused, but she never offered to drive it. "Well, I love to hear Sharon play. She is growing so fast and she looks like an angel." "That is what I said the other day to Elna. That girl of hers gets more Deautiful every day. She is always coming over to do some thoughtful thing for me, and when she leaves she always kisses me goodbye." THE MISSING PAPERS Tish immediately forgot her lost papers. She took up the challenge. Elna's girl was sweet to her grandmother, but so were Irene's girls sweet to their grandmother — most of the time, honesty demanded. "I wouldn't think of missing hearing Sharon play." Her voice had regained its usual spritely tone. "Why, her music teacher says...." "Oh, I know," Mel assured her quickly. "She does play beautifully, but you should see that little Bruce. He came to my place yesterday. I was making cookies. I gave him one, but he said 'want two.' I gave him another and then he said 'want four." She laughed as only a grandmother can over the brilliance of a grandchild. Tish laughed, but she could think of a hundred things her little Marc had said that showed more brilliance than wanting more cookies. Tish came home tired from the PTA meeting, but drowsy with satisfaction. Everyone had raved about Sharon's playing. Even Tish had been included in the aura of glory that hung over the performance. As Tish started to undress the joy was suddenly gone, like a slate being wiped clean with a wet cloth. Where were those papers? Why couldn't she put them from her mind? Because she was fussy, Irene would have said. 'Then she remembered the poem she was to mail. She knew it was in that leather case. No use going to bed until she found it. Tish went back to her desk and, laying the case on the desk, unzipped it. She started lifting the 573 AUGUST 1963 papers one by one. There, fifth paper down, was the poem. Gently she laid it on the desk and put the case away. Finding an envelope she sealed the poem inside. Then she went to the garage, opened it, backed out her car, and drove across town. She stopped at Helen's home. There was no light inside so she slipped the envelope in the mail slot. No chance of forgetting it now. Tis was ready for bed when a sudden thought stopped her. The poem had been exactly where it was meant to be. Perhaps she had overlooked the papers in the same way. Back she went to her desk. One by one she went through the papers. One by one she replaced them. No legal envelope. "T am so bothered I can't think," she told herself as she sank wearily into bed. "PII sleep on it and maybe the answer will come when I awaken. Hugh used to say, 'Sleep on it and morning will bring the anSWET. Sleep was stubborn that night. Each time she felt herself drifting into sleep the lost papers popped into her mind. She could not go on like this. She must find them. In desperation, she turned her thoughts to Sharon's music. 'That proved a soothing sedative. Miorninc came and Tish awoke an hour earlier than her usual waking time. The first words that came to her mind were under the bed, but how could the papers have got under her bed? Leaning over so she 574 _ found nothing. Had a clear view, she searched the space. Nothing there, not even any visible lint. While washing her few breakfast dishes, 'Tish remembered she had another bed in a small back bedroom that was seldom used. It was utterly fantastic even to suppose the papers would be there, but it was the last place to look. She had searched every drawer, chest, and closet, even in the basement, and A slight tremor shook her. Under the bed in the back room were two pasteboard boxes tied neatly and securely. They had a long undisturbed look, but that first early morning impression had never failed her. She carried the boxes to the kitchen table and opened one. No legal papers on top. 'The box was filled to overflowing, however, with clippings from newspapers and magazines, wedding announcements, funeral programs, testimonial programs, thank-you notes, and a miscellany of items too numerous to even guess what they were. For the next three days Tish was so absorbed in reading and sorting the interesting items in the two boxes that. The loss of the legal papers Be uaat in the background of her mind. She found dates and facts she realized she needed for her Book of Remembrance. She spent hours on the telephone reading to friends and reminiscing, crying and laughing. FRENE, coming in unexpectedly the second day, suggested she put the box with all its contents in the trash can. "Why clutter your place with all this?" Tish answered evasively, but when Irene had gone she got out her car. She rode to the nearest dime store and bought three scrapbooks. Not expensive ones but ones that suited her purpose. A week later Tish closed the last finished scrapbook. What she had saved were just too precious to burn. If Irene chose to burn them after she was gone, Tish would have the pleasure of them until she did go; and she had no intention of going soon. Then came the morning Mr. Ludlow's secretary called. "Mrs. Haworth, Mr. Ludlow is leaving town for a month, and he is anxious to get your estate in order before he leaves. Could you bring those papers in today?" "Yes. Yes, I'll be there." 'Tish sat a moment before she replaced the receiver. 'The time had come. After listening to Jim Ludlow's praise all these years about her carefulness and orderliness, she would have to acknowledge that she was just an old woman who had lost her memory. And Jim and Hugh had been such good friends! It was almost like betraying Hugh. She thought of going through the desk again, but shook her head sadly. Those papers were not in any file, they were not in any drawer in the kitchen, in the bedrooms, or basement. Not even in the garage. Tish tried to straighten her shoulders, but did not quite make it. It was horrible enough to be forgetful THE MISSING PAPERS: without having to acknowledge it publicly. She hoped after she had acknowledged it, this cloud of dis-. Trust of herself and self-pity would leave her. She was an old woman. Without a memory, and the sooner she acknowledged it the sooner — well, anyway, the sooner something. Tish bathed, ran a comb through her hair, and put on the first dress her hands touched when she slid back the wardrobe door. She opened a drawer and took out her black handbag. She turned the night lock on the front door and on the way to the garage opened the purse to make sure she had the house keys. She stared, and stared again. It couldn't be — it just couldn't be! 'There, daring her to doubt, was the packet of papers. Two weeks she had spent hunting them and here they were, right where she had _ placed them. 'Then she remembered; she had put them in the purse the first thing that fateful morning, so she would be sure and not forget them. Come to think of it, she had heard several of the younger women tell of doing such tricks. She had been impatient with them, wondering why they could be so careless. "Why did I keep so still?" she asked herself, "now there is no one I can call and tell I found them. I could have had a lot of fun rehearsing how I found them." 'Then, as her car purred quietly down the street, she added, "At least I saved my reputation, but I'll have more sympathy with the girls from here on. And I have my precious scrapbooks." 575 Brilliance Catherine B. Bowles Do you watch the golden sunset Bringing shadows of the night Sink behind the far horizon As it slowly fades from sight? Fou look for beams returning jing brightness to the day? Do, it stirs the heartstrings feilh to light your way. Two University of Wisconsin psychologists, Dr. Harry F. Harlow and his wife Dr. Margaret K. Harlow have been experimenting with monkeys for years. Some they raised from early babyhood with the best of scientific care, but with no mothers; others had no companionship with other young monkeys. Both classes turned out to be socially aloof and to have unpleasant dispositions. Applying their findings to the rearing of human beings, the Doctors Harlow hope to help parents, through the avenues of generous mother-love and companionship for little ones with others of their own age, to develop happier, healthier children, and to reduce the incidence of mental illness. Dr. Cora BELL is a lecturer in international politics at the University of Sydney, Australia. For some time she was attached to the Institute of War and Peace Studies at Columbia University, on a Rockefeller scholarship. She is the author of a recent book on _ political thought, Negotiations From Strength, a Study in the Politics of Power. Mizs. JANET HILLSTROM STEFFEN, a Latter-day Saint now living in France and mother of four children, is the author of an essay "Freedom and Responsibility," which won a Freedom Foundation Award for 1963. "Freedom," Mrs. Steffen wrote, "teaches me that I may walk unwatched, my head held high, on the beautiful shore of life." Ml arcurerITE WILDENHAIN IS a master American potter, whose works are on display in many of America's major museums. She recently conducted a pottery seminar at the University of Utah. 'This is an art field in which many women are interested today. Mi arjorig STATHAM and EVELYN HASTINGS, affiliated with the American Museum of Natural History, prepared a number of the drawings of insects for The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Animal Life, a new set of books outstanding for the extensive research and numerous, almost incredible pictures. 577 art of the Fragrance Ann G. Hansen Vi other day a former neighbor of mine called me on the telephone. I was quite startled when the usual trend of conversation did not reach my ears. Instead, she said, "I want to tell vou while you live how much I love vou." "Oh, but I'm far from dead," I replied lightly. "But I do thank you for the kind words." She continued seriously. "I think we wait for people to die before we sav nice things about them; when we could make life's road so much easier with a compliment now and tiem, A lump filled my throat, and my glasses blurred with tears. I knew how night she was, and I resolved that I would begin saying sincere, nice things, too. Just the thought filled me with joy. Outside, the blackbirds were singing, and my heart sang with them, for I was happy, too. The thought remained with me. "Why do we wait until it is too late to express love and gratitude?" I asked myself. Julia had made a song in my heart, so why shouldn't I "breathe a song into the air," too? I thought of my faithful music teacher who taught me for fifty cents a lesson, now an old man shoved aside like a pair of last year's shoes. I could see the stooped shoulders of his frail body as he bent over the keys, and the delicate fingers, now knotted with rheumatism, that once brought forth rich tones from the mighty organ. Surely, it would make him happy to know that someone still remembered him 578 with gratitude and affection; so I decided to tell him how far reaching his teaching had been and the joy music had brought to me. Soon after I had made my resolution, I met his daughter in the library of our school. I introduced myself and asked if she would take a message to her father. "Please tell your father I love him." I began blinking and trying to clear the hoarseness from my voice. She sensed my sincerity and listened. "T was one of his first piano students when he began his career. Perhaps he will not even remember me, but I can never forget him. He taught me so thoroughly that I have never been afraid to raise my hand in any musical discussion. I knew what he said was right. Tell him that I have taught many students in return, that I have given the music he gave me to my Church, my school, and my community. Tell him that his name can never die." "Tll give him your beautiful message," the daughter replied sweetly, "and I know it will bring him joy. It is always a satisfaction to the soul, during the waiting years, to know that someone has loved you and appreciated what you have tried to do for him." Tue next day my mind went back to a class when I was a girl of fifteen. I thought of Miss Brown who had given a lesson so beautifully that I resolved then and there to become a teacher. I also resolved that someday I would make someone else feel that teaching is the most beautiful of all the arts, as she had me. In a college class I had once written Miss Brown a tribute entitled, "I Caught a Spark," but since it had remained in my drawer, unknown to her. When I wrote the composition I had hoped someone would read it at her funeral. "But what good would that do?" I asked myself. I salvaged the old theme, polished it in a place or two, and mailed it to my aged ideal. I could see her hands shaking with palsy as she tore open the letter and read back her words of inspiration after all these years. "Teaching is the most beautiful of all the arts, because it reaches human souls." Yes, Miss Brown, you touched my soul, and I am still trying to teach as you did. And then there was the old lady I always admired who had lived alone for so many years. Physically unable to enjoy community life, she made the most of what came her way and never complained. As I knocked at her door, she answered with a look of bewilderment. "Why would anyone be coming to see me?" She invited me in and we talked of her three children who had attended my school. 'There was a picture of her boy, who had met a tragic death, sitting on a shelf of her old organ. Time had dried her tears, and she could talk of him now without showing emotion. She accepted his passing, like everything else, as God's will in all things. A lovely patchwork quilt was on the frames in the process of being quilted. I commented on her abilPART OF THE FRAGRANCE ity, the fine stitches, the intricate blocks, and her blending of colors in the big star design. Her eyes welled with happiness. Then the smell of homemade bread baking in the old coal stove, began to pour in from the kitchen. My mouth watered at the thought of a fresh, thick slice, but I couldn't stay to get one, although she pressed me. I told the lady what a busy, useful life I thought she lived. She had no time for selfpity, she would not accept financial help. She was an independent, lovable person, filling every day with something worthwhile. We walked out into her flower garden, and she cut me a big bouquet of mock-orange blossoms and pink peonies. There was the fragrance of flowers and summer in the air, and the fragrance of a great soul passed from hers into mine. Sometime later, I met my friend Julia who had called me on the telephone and started me in this love-expressing pursuit. I told her how far reaching the message of her call had been, and asked her what had given her the idea to deviate from the accepted form that nice things can be said only at funerals. She told me that one day she picked up an old copy of a magazine, and as it fell open, she saw a Chinese proverb underlined. It read: "Part of the fragrance is left in the hand that bestows the flowers." She said she thought of how many people to whom she owed words of gratitude and began giving them while there was time. In_ expressing thanks and love, she had found fragrance left in her hand, as I had found it in mine. 579 Betty Lou M. Smith HE ticking of the old-fashioned clock in the kitchen was the only sound audible in the large, dated house. The ticking seemed to echo throughout the halls and make its way into each room, calling out memories of what used to be. Once the clock had ticked away the welcome sound of children's voices; then it had marked sad, discouraging hours; and now it seemed to tick more slowly as the lonely hours went by. Carey Nichols glanced up from 580 where she was sitting by the kitchen table. My goodness, it's only six o'clock, she thought. I won't fix supper for a little while. If I eat too early then the evening goes by much too slowly. The days were filled with too many memories for Carey. She remembered the times when her children were young and her husband still alive. 'Time had meaning then; she had a meaning. Now the beginning of each new day meant only lonely hours, more remembering of what used to be, and more listless wishing. I shouldn't complain all the time, Carey reasoned with herself. After all, I do have my Relief Society work. Thank goodness for that. If _I didn't have that much to keep me busy, I don't know what I would do. Time had been very kind to Carey. It had aged her beautifully. Her hair was a silver halo, and the lines in her face were soft, making her face appear serene and gentle. Her eyes had not faded with the years; they were still shining and blue. With the death of her husband, Will, Carey had been left financially well off. Her home, although far too large for her now, was old, but comfortable. However, this security did not help out her loneliness. Her two children lived too far away for her to go and visit them very often, and when she did visit them, she became lonely for her own home. Many hours were spent knitting a sweater, doing a quilt for a neighbor, or even pacing up and down through the different rooms. Still Carey's sense of loneliness and uselessness mounted. She was determined that nobody wanted her, that nobody cared. I can't go on this way, Carey thought. I have got to get hold of myself. The rest of my days can't be spent in this idleness. She always tried to reason with herself. But of just what use can I, a widow woman of my age, be to anybody? Life goes on, and I just stay behind, unwanted, and not needed. Carey awoke one morning even more restless than usual. Upon SOMEBODY CARES starting her breakfast, she realized that she had forgotten to order her groceries the day before. I am out of just about everything, she thought. Carey reached for the telephone. No, I think that I shall walk down to the store for a change. The exercise will do me good. Tue walk turned out to be very refreshing, and Carey decided that from now on, when the weather permitted, she would walk. As she neared the store, Carey noticed a small boy of about six years old walking a few steps ahead of her. "Hi, there; are you going to the store, too?"' Carey asked in a cheerful voice. She loved children. Two brown eyes peered up at her from a freckled face. "Yes, I have to get some things." The boy cast his eyes down once more. "Shouldn't you be in school? You look as if you are old enough." Carey continued the conversation. "I'm old enough now, but I wasn't when school started. I'll go next year." 'The little boy now contented himself with walking beside Carey. There was something very appealing about this little fellow, and Carey couldn't resist questioning him further. "I'm Mrs. Nichols. What is your name?" "Tm Michael Rogers. I live over there a block," the little boy said, and then, as if in afterthought, "do you have a big house?" Carey was surprised at this question. "Yes, I do have a big house, 581 AUGUST 1963 and I live in it all by myself. Sometimes I get very lonely there, Michael." "Don't you have any family, children?" Michael questioned in his childlike way. Delighted by the child's returning her conversation, Carey continued, "Yes, I have two children, but they are married now and live far away. They have children of their own now. My husband passed away five years ago." "Oh." Michael seemed deep in his own thoughts, then he answered, "I wish that we had a big house. I have twin sisters that are four, and a brother, two years old. We only have one bedroom, and it really gets crowded. We have two couches in the front room that we make beds on."" Michael walked in silence for a moment and then he added, "My mother is sick. She tries to take care of all of us, but she doesn't feel like it. I can take care of myself, and still help Mommy, too." "TH bet that you do, Michael. You seem like a very good young man. Carey was now curious. She took her time getting her groceries, and now and then she would see a neighbor and stop and talk to her for a few minutes. All in all, she took considerable time, and when she finally left the store, she found Michael waiting outside. "T waited for you," he said, unconcerned. "I thought I'd walk with you." "T'm so glad that you did, Michael." Carey was delighted with her 582 new friend. "It will make my walk much more enjoyable." It was very warm that day for the time of year. Although the calendar said February, the weather gave the feeling of spring. This was the time of year when mothers had to warn their children not to relieve themselves of their coats. Michael was a typical youngster, and as they walked he started to undo his coat. "W ow, it is warm," he said. "I am going to take my coat off." "T wouldn't do that, Michael. This is the best time of the year to catch a good cold. Why not wait until spring is really here?" "Oh, all right," Michael said, stopping abruptly, "here's where I live." Carry found herself pausing in front of a frame house that was badly in need of paint. The house was very small, even smaller than she had imagined, and she could hear a child crying uncontrollably inside its walls. "That's my little brother. He always cries, and Mommy is too sick to carry him around all of the time." Michael was sympathetic, only as a youngster can be. His little freckled face looked toward the house. "I had better go and see if I can help now." Before Carey had realized what she had said, she offered, "Michael, would your mother mind if I try to quiet the baby? I am pretty good with my own grandchildren." Michael didn't hesitate with his answer. "Come in," he said. Once inside the house, Carey wished that she hadn't come. There were two unmade beds in the living room, and, upon glancing in the kitchen, she noticed that laundry had been hung all over. Then her eyes fell upon the young woman sitting in the platform rocker by the oil heater. She was younger than Carey had imagined from Michael's description, and she certainly did appear to be in ill health. Her almost chalklike face made her brown hair seem even darker than it really was. There was very little similarity between Michael and his mother, with the exception of their eyes. 'They were deep brown in color and wondering. The young woman looked up questioningly at Carey. "T hope that you will forgive me for the intrusion, but I was walking home from the store with Michael, and I heard the baby crying. I thought that I might be of some help." The young woman was much too weak to mind Carey's intrusion, and she offered the child to her willingly. "Well, thank you." Michael's mother spoke now. "... I don't seem to be able to do much for him." "Oh, and such a beautiful child, too." Carey looked down at the cutly-haired child that she held in her arms. Her heart stirred, and once again she felt a pang of loneliness for her own family. Miraculously, the child fell asleep in Carey's arms, and she tiptoed softly into the bedroom and laid the child gently in the crib. "T think that he will sleep now." SOMEBODY CARES Carey came back into the living room. "I hope that you don't mind my saying this, but I don't think it would hurt you to get some rest. You look very weary." Her voice sounded motherly, as if she were addressing a member of her own family. "Tll rest after I fix the children some lunch," the young woman answered kindly. "By the way, I am Beverly Rogers, and I do want to thank you for helping me out." "The pleasure was all mine. My name is Carey Nichols." Carey's eves fell upon Michael and then the twins. "You have a fine little familer"' Beverly was glad to have someone to talk to. "Sit down a moment, if you are not in a hurry." She motioned to Carey. "You haven't lived here in town long have you? I don't recall seeing you before." "No, we haven't, Mrs. Nichols. My husband found work here a month ago, and as soon as he found a place to live, we moved here. Right after we moved here, I became ill. So you see, we just haven't gone out anywhere as yet. We really haven't put forth any effort whatever to make friends. We have been too wrapped up in our own personal problems." Svuppenty Carey had a thought. "You know I just don't see how you are going to be able to get much rest with the twins still so active. If I'm not interfering, why don't I get your lunch for you? I really haven't anything else to do." 583 AUGUST 1963 Beverly's eyes showed a note of relief as she gave her approval. "That would be very kind of you, Mrs. Nichols." Ouickly, but efficiently, Carey fixed the children some soup, sandwiches, and milk. She prepared a tray for Beverly, and when she went into the living room, she found that Beverly had fallen asleep in the easy chair. Carey took a blanket off one of the beds and put it over her. Poor girl, she must be exhausted, she thought. It was three o'clock that afternoon before Carey finished the dishes that apparently had been left since the day before. She folded up the clothes in the kitchen, and then straightened the beds in the living room. Still Beverly slept on. Just before she was ready to leave, Carey touched Beverly gently on the shoulder. "I'm going now, Beverly. The children have all been fed, and I left some soup and sandwiches for you." Beverly was startled for a moment. "What! Oh, yes, thank you very much, Mrs. Nichols. That is the best sleep I have had in a long time. You'll never know what a help this has been to me." Michael had been standing by Carey all the time, and now he took hold of her hand. "I wish that you would come back and see us again. Please." He looked pleadingly into Carey's eyes. "Please," he said once more. "Of course, dear. If your mother wants me." didn't want to push herself. "You're welcome any time, Mrs. I'll come back Carey 584 Nichols, but not to come and work. Just come and visit us again soon." Beverly's voice was pleasant, and she had a more vital look about her than when Carey had first seen her. In the ensuing days, Carey found herself going back day after day. She longed to help with the children and listen to their eager stories. She looked forward to their eagerness when she arrived at their house, and they greeted her happily at the door, beckoning her to come in. Beverly was doing much better than when Carey had first met her, and the children now called Carey "Auntie Carey." How Carey loved those words. At last she felt needed and useful. She, too, had taken on a new vitality that she had gradually lost when her family left home. As Beverly became better and made friends with women her own age, Carey spent less time in the Rogers' home. However, Michael and the other children continued to cling to the loving attention Carey was always ready to give them. She was grateful for the key to banish her loneliness which she had found, and her companionship with Beverly and the children had opened her eves and heart to wider paths. After she had expressed to the ward Relief Society president her desire to do more than just attend the meetings, her former hours of too much leisure were filled with the joy of service. The closer friendships Carey had found would prove a sustaining power to her in the years that lay ahead. She was needed, loved, and cherished by many. Sight and Sound of Summer The Willow Tree Alice Morrey Bailey The willow tree is a fisherman In lakes of grass to his knees, Circling and arching his slender rods, Casting his lines to the breeze. The willow tree is a lady, Elegant after the rain, Twinkling with emeralds and diamonds, Moving the lace of her train. The willow tree is a mystic tree, Golden and green in the light, Silver and green when the sun goes down, Silver and black in the night. Terns Claire Noall Terns dipping like bees, gathering gold from the sun's low rays, Cross-crying, twice spiraling arctic roundelays pattern and pitch Through molten air — pale wings spread tinted flair — Eyes seeking, feet tucking, following the bow on which I stood. Deep was the prow in the beak of the sea's dark flood. 585 EDITORIAL The Power of Example For I have given you an example, that ye should do as I have done to you" (John 13:15). 'These were the words of Christ to the apostles at the last supper. In his last hours with his disciples he ministered unto them and was the perfect example of the service he expected of his followers. "... When Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end." 'The Savior served, and because he had so served, those who observed his actions heard his words, and loved him, and followed his example. Paul in his epistle to Timothy admonished him "... Be thou an example of the believers, in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity" (I Timothy 4:12). It is certain that Paul was defining for Timothy, and for us, exemplary living and explaining that one's life should serve as a pattern, deserving imitation by others. This should be our standard of behavior. Our words, even our conversations should convey the thoughts, the beliefs, the knowledge that guides our lives. Deeds speak even louder than words the charity and love we practice. To be an example in spirit, in faith, and in purity is to express throughout our lives in every facet of our living the firmness of our testimony, the fullness of our desire to do what is nght. Example stimulates to emulation. How eagerly many people follow the hero of the moment, sometimes without much thought as to where or how they are being led. How slavishly some follow fads and fashion without considering whether they are becoming to them as individuals. How many there are who, failing to use their free agency wisely, allow themselves to follow unworthy leaders. How great is the need for wisdom to seek and follow the best examples and to hold as ideal only the leadership of the righteous. The leadership that is demanded today, the leadership that we as és Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer members of the Church should be giving, is, as President David O. McKay has said, "not attained by chance, nor fostered by indulgence." This leadership demands careful preparation and the constant knowledge that we are being watched, that Church leadership is being sought, that the Lord expects his gospel to be taught and lived by the members of his Church. The example of parents to their children is perhaps the most frequently emulated. Parents have been assured that when their behavior is inconsistent with their teachings, their children will follow their action more readily than their counsel. "Although parents do not realize it, every act of their lives has effect upon their children," Elder Mark E. Petersen has stated. If parents want their children to be good children they will have to be good themselves. President Brigham Young, in one of his great discourses, said, "... It is a shame, a weakening shameful thing for any member of the Church to pursue a course that he knows is not right, and that he would rather his children should not follow." The power of example is not limited to individuals. Groups of people achieving through an organization prove to be an example also. 'To the women of the world, to the great organizations of women, Relief Society can be and is a powerful example of all that is true, uplifting, and good. The true meaning of charity with its greatest aspect of leve and its intrinsic goal of service to God and to his children is shown in the work of Relief Society. The loving kindness that is an attribute of Deity to, be attained by mortals is expressed in its goals. Teaching the principles of the gospel and helping its members to grow in spirituality and knowledge are exemplary aspects of its reason for being. The power of example is expressed in the simple, glorious utterance of the Savior, "Come follow me." Peter explains this call — "For even, hereunto were ye called: because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example, that ye should follow his steps" (I Peter 2:21). —L. W. M. 587 Tue Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, October 2 and 3, 1963. 'The general session will be held on Wednesday, October 2, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards the general session of the conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the officers meeting on Wednesday morning, October 2, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, October 3, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, October 2, from 7 to 10 in the Relief Society Building. Appropriate visual aids can be of great assistance to a class leader. If wisely used, they can enrich the lesson material by adding interest, strengthening a point, and la an idea. They also can be used effectively in introducing or concluding a esson. A picture kit of carefully planned visual aids for the 1963-64 literature lessons may be obtained from the Department of Audio-Visual Communication, Brigham Young a Provo, Utah, price $3.55 (not obtainable from Relief Society General oard ). The packet contains the following materials: 1. Portraits of Mark Twain, Emily Dickinson, William Dean Howells, Robert Frost, Willa Cather, Sinclair Lewis, and Carl Sandburg. 2. Illustration of Huckleberry Finn and Nigger Jim on their raft on the Mississippi River, for use with the lesson on Huckleberry Finn. 3. Seven small portraits for the literature map. 588 The Second C ompassionaTE service has been in the past, and should ever be one of the most important parts of Relief Society. Let us keep in mind that the great need in the world today is for kindness — in our thoughts, our words, our deeds. Shall we not remember that this was the purpose for which Relief Society was first organized? New sisters —- as they join — should be given an understanding of the privilege and duty they have, as members of Relief Society, to assist in giving compassionate service. Modern hospital and medical facilities, with labor-saving devices in the homes, have obviated the need for some of the actual bedside care and housework formerly given. However, we still have the responsibility of rendering physical, spiritual, and moral uplift to those in distress. The Prophet Joseph Smith asked, '""Who are better qualified to administer than our faithful and zealous sisters, whose hearts are full of faith, tenderness, sympathy and compassion? No one," he answered (DHC IV, page 607). How much joy has come to sisters in the past, through visits to the sick, the troubled, the lonely! Cherished friendships have been made in these rewarding experiences. Many times such a person has gone into homes for the purpose of giving comfort and cheer or to render service, only to come away knowing that she has received the greater blessing by the examples of faith and courage she has witnessed. She knows the truth of King Benjamin's words, "... When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God" (Mosiah 2:17). She learns for herself that the way of "the second mile" is always in the direction of our Heavenly Father, and when we are willing to go this "second mile" with a brother or sister, we are led, inevitably, closer to him. "Let kindness, charity, and love crown your works henceforward," was the counsel of Joseph Smith, the Prophet. The Canyon Water Front Anna B., Hart I left a world of commonplace, A busy thoroughfare and race; I came up to this canyon water front Not with the motive to relax and fish and hunt, But to refresh my thirsty soul With music of this hidden stream To sanctify my urgent dream. 589 the Home Signs Ida Elaine James A tiny toy dog lying In abandon on its cheek Answers the heart's fond crying For proof the heart must seek. Deserted trinkets scattered In careless disarray, While interests unfettered Turned a newer way; The little crumpled pillow Discarded on the bed, With imprint, the sweet hollow That fits a little head; A silken hair-winding Drifted across the floor — Are promises — all binding To hearts that adore. That silence is singing Of joy's butterfly That must go awhile a-winging; He'll come back by and by. Mary L. Allred I save all the peach stones, and put them in a cooking kettle, as I peel the peaches. When I am done with a bushel of peaches, I then make this jelly. The recipe is as follows: Cover the peach stones with boiling water. Let simmer for two or three minutes. Then allow to stand overnight. Next morning, strain juice through a cloth and cook with the peach jelly recipe which you will find with the type of pectin you use for other jelly. Each bushel of peaches provides about enough pits for one full recipe of jelly. My peach-stone jelly did not seem like much, but we considered it well worth the effort. It has a deliciously different taste, and is a beautiful peachy pink. I use even the stones that are open as long as they are not moldy. Shirley Thulin 1. Have a definite centralized place for all of your sewing, be it the mending, the unfinished tea towels, or Aunt Kate's Christmas gift in the making. 2. Put all the odds and ends in shoe boxes and label them well. This helps you to find the trims, the zippers, the buttons, the correct material for patches, at a moment's notice. 3. Keep a box or basket with "'pick-up'" work handy, so that when you have only a moment, you can put it to good advantage. 4. Keep your good scissors, a thimble, needle and thread, box of pins, and the measurements of your family (taken every four months or so) in a box, ready for immediate use when you want to begin a new garment. 5- Keep all of yaur different colored thread in a handy spool container. You can make one yourself by taking a piece of plywood the desired size and hammering in nails or pegs about two inches apart. Always buy an extra spool of thread when you buy your material, to use when you need to patch or mend it. 591 Part I — DRY MILK Marion Bennion, Ph. D., Chairman, Department of Food and Nutrition Sadie O. Morris, Ph. D., Department of Food and Nutrition Brigham Young University IVA osr of the water is removed from fresh, liquid skim milk to obtain nonfat dry milk. This, then, is a mixture of protein, milk sugar, minerals, and some of the water soluble vitamins, especially riboflavin. The use of drv milk in many dishes may be an excellent way of stepping up the nutritive value of your family's meals. And, if economy is the keynote in your food budget, dry milk will fit nicely into 'your plan. It is one of the most economical forms of milk you can buy, costing only about one half as much per quart as comparable fluid skim milk. It is convenient to store, since it does not require refrigeration and takes very little shelf space. It should be kept, however, in a tightly covered container so that it is not left open to the air. Storage temperatures no higher than 75° F. Are preferable, also. | | | Dry milk is cong emieat to use. It may be reconstituted with water and used as any liquid milk if it is a grade "A" product and clean utensils are used in the mixing process. It may also be used in many cases as the dry product. In recipes for cakes and other baked goods, the dry milk may simply be added to or sifted with the other dry ingredients in the recipe. 'Then, water may be used for the required liquid. Other liquids, as stock, fruit juice, or even additional milk, may also be used, depending upon the recipe. You may adapt most of your favorite baking recipes for the use of dry milk in this way. There will be differences in the compactness of packing of various types of nonfat dry milk, especially instant dry milk, and it is therefore best to follow package directions when mixing with water to reconstitute, or in deciding how much dry milk to substitute for liquid milk in a recipe. Usually, three-fourths cup of a regular or noninstant powder or one and one-third cups of an instant powder to one quart of water are recommended. When mixing, it is best to sprinkle the powder on top of the water and beat or mix thoroughly. The mixture — may be shaken in a tightly covered jar. Water at room temperature or slightly warmer will make it possible to mix the milk more easily and completely. If the milk is used for drinking, either alone or mixed with 592 THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT varying proportions of liquid whole milk, it will be improved by chilling in the refrigerator overnight. The newer processing methods have produced a very palatable instant product for drinking purposes, as well as for use in cooking. A light and airy product for topping may be made by whipping nonfat milk solids. Equal measures of dry milk and water are usually satisfactory for this purpose. Make sure that your bow] is the nght size for the amount of mixture you are whipping, so that thorough mixing can take place. The bowl, beaters, and water should be icy cold. Place the water in the bowl, sprinkle the milk solids over the top, and beat, first at low speed and then at high speed, until stiff. Scrape down the sides of the bowl occasionally. A little lemon juice may be added for stability. Sugar may be added after the mixture is stiffly beaten. The topping will not hold up for long periods of time, but makes a pleasing, economical product when used immediately. The use of dry milk offers nutrition, convenience, and economy. Make the most of it. You really need no special recipes. Often, only a simple substitution is necessary. A few recipes are offered here, however, to help you get started. Pineapple Breakfast Cake Sift dry ingredients together and stir into sugar and egg mixture — do not beat. % c. Sugar Spread batter in greased g-inch square pan % c. Soft shortening and sprinkle with pineapple topping. Bake 1 egg at 375° for 25 to 30 minutes. "2 c. Water 1% c. All-purpose flour Pie anele Tosuiee 2 tbsp. Regular or 3 tbsp. Instant nonfat dried milk solids 3 tbsp. Softened margarine or butter 3 tbsp. Brown sugar % c. Drained crushed pineapple 1% tsp. Baking powder "2 tsp. Salt Mix sugar, shortening, and egg together Mix together thoroughly and sprinkle thoroughly. Stir in gradually % c. Water. On top of batter before baking. 593 AUGUST 1963 2% c. Lukewarm water (110 - 115° F. For active dry yeast) % c. Brown sugar or molasses 1 pkg. Active dry yeast (1 cake compressed yeast may be used) tbsp. Salt c. Soft shortening or oil c. Regular or 24 c. Instant nonfat dried milk solids 5% - 6c. Whole-wheat flour Measure water and sugar into large mixing bow]; add yeast and stir. Add salt and shortening. Mix milk solids and 2 c. Of the flour together; add to yeast mixture and stir. Add additional flour to form a soft dough. Turn dough onto lightly floured board and knead until smooth and elastic and dough does not stick to board. Return to clean mixing bowl; lightly grease top of dough to prevent drying. Cover, put in a warm place, and allow dough to double in bulk — about 1-1% hours. Push dough down. Turn out on very lightly floured board and shape into two loaves. Place in greased standard size loaf pans, 7% x 3% x 2% inches. Let rise until doubled in bulk — about 45 minutes. Bake in preheated oven at 4oo° F. For 35 to 45 minutes. Yield: 2 loaves. "If desired, dried milk may be reconstituted in the 2% c. Water, the milk scalded, and then cooled to the proper temperature before yeast is added. % package lemon-flavored gelatin "2 ¢. Boiling water "% C. Sugar "4 c. Lemon juice ' tsp. Grated lemon rind % c. Regular or 1% c. Instant nonfat dried milk solids % c. Water 594 Dissolve gelatin in boiling water. Add sugar, lemon juice, and lemon rind, and stir until dissolved. Place in refrigerator until gelatin mixture begins to thicken. Have %4 c. Water, bowl, and beater very cold. Sprinkle dried milk on top of water and beat mixture until stiff. Beat gelatin mixture into whipped milk. Pour into 8-inch pie pan lined with baked pastry shell or graham cracker crust. Chill until firm. Yield: Filling for one 8-inch pie. '2 c. Flour '2 c. Margarine * ¥% c. Regular nonfat dry milk 1 tsp. Salt Cut flour and dry milk into margarine with pastry blender until pieces are very fine. Store in bottle in refrigerator until ready to use. For each 1 cup medium white sauce needed take % c. Mix and 1 c. Water. Add small amount of water to mix and blend to a paste. Add remainder of water and heat to boiling, stirring constantly. Boil one minute. Yield: 4 cups medium white sauce. For 1 cup thin white sauce use 4 c. Mix; for 1 cup thick white sauce use % c. Mix. *For instant nonfat dry milk, follow directions above, using 144 c. Instant dry milk. For medium white sauce use % c. Mix; for thin white sauce use % C. Mix; for thick white sauce use % c. Mix. Water may be added directly to the mix without mixing in paste first. 4 c. Diced raw potatoes 2 c. Boiling water 4 tbsp. Diced salt pork 1 onion, chopped 2 c. Canned, creamed style or frozen corn 1 c. Regular or 124 c. Instant dry milk 1 c. Water 1% tbsp. Salt dash pepper 2 tbsp. Chopped parsley Cook potatoes in water for ten minutes. Sauté salt pork and onion gently for five minutes or until pork is crisp; add to potatoes. Add corn and cook gently until potatoes are done. Mix dry milk to a smooth paste with water; add paste, salt, and pepper to soup. Heat thoroughly over boiling water, add chopped parsley Serves six to eight. And serve. THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT Y, c. Macaroni, broken into pieces 1% c. Water or fluid milk ¥% c. Regular or % c. Instant dry milk, whole or nonfat 2 tbsp. Flour "2 tsp. Salt 1% tbsp. Fat 1% c. Grated cheese 4 hard-cooked eggs, sliced crumbs mixed with melted fat For added milk value, use 2%4 c. Dry milk and 1% tbsp. Flour, in place of amounts given above. Cook macaroni in boiling water until tender. Drain and discard cooking water. Put the water or fluid milk into a pan; add dry milk, flour, and salt. Beat until smooth. Add fat and cook over very low heat or boiling water until thickened, stirring as necessary to prevent sticking or lumping. Remove from heat and stir in cheese. Place macaroni in a greased dish, cover with the eggs, and add the cheese sauce. Sprinkle crumbs over top. Brown in moderate oven 350° F. For about twenty minutes. Serves six. 595 Versatile Cottage Cheese Margaret F. Maxwell Att of us enjoy that old standby, cottage cheese and fruit as a salad, and we know that cottage cheese makes a delicious luncheon addition, just as it comes from the carton. Children love it, with or without fruit, and it is well known as an excellent source of calcium. But cottage cheese is putting on a new dress nowadays, and adds its smooth piquancy to every course in the meal. So, for an inexpensive, nutritious addition to your family's diet, get acquainted with versatile cottage cheese! Yal | rr MAC a. | Cott Val = hovel '¢@ Acearn! ~ - ~. >> J 2 c. Cottage cheese 1 can (7 oz.) tuna "4 tsp. Paprika 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Steak sauce 1 egg Y, c. Cracker crumbs Combine cottage cheese with tuna, seasoning, egg, and half the crumbs. Place in greased 1% quart casserole; sprinkle remaining crumbs on top. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. Serves four to six. Instead of the usual white sauce over vegetables, try this new cottage cheese 596 sauce, which adds a suggestion of tartness to such vegetables as broccoli, cauliflower, potatoes, and onions. Cottage Cheese Sauce 2' tbsp. Salad oil 2% tbsp. Flour salt and pepper to taste 1 c. Milk "2 €. Cream-style cottage cheese Combine in saucepan salad oil, flour, salt, and pepper. Add milk; stir until smooth. Cook over moderate heat, stirring constantly until smooth and _thickened. Beat cottage cheese until smooth and creamy. Add to sauce and heat to serving temperature, but do not boil. Makes 1% cups sauce. Variations: Substitute % cup sour cream for % cup of milk. Add % tsp. Lemon juice. And now for the dessert. Here we offer two contrasting recipes, the first a simple, family style no-bake cheese cake, and the second, Pascha, traditional climax of the Russian Easter feast, which, though given here in a simplified version, is worthy of crowning the most elegant meal. Filling: 2 tbsp. (2 envelopes) unflavored gelatin "A c. Water 4 ©88s % Cc. Sugar 1 c. Milk 2 c. Cottage cheese "% C. Orange juice 1 tbsp. Grated orange rind Dissolve gelatin in cold water. Combine eggs, sugar, and milk; cook over hot water in double boiler, or over low heat, stirring constantly, until slightly thickened (about 10 minutes). Add softened gelatin and cook about 5 minutes longer. Remove from heat; add remaining ingredients, and allow to cool. Crust: 2 c. Graham cracker crumbs " C. Sugar 1 tsp. Cinnamon " ¢c. Melted butter or salad oil Combine all crust ingredients. Line bottom and sides of 8-inch pan (at least 2 inches deep) saving 4 cup crumbs. Pour with reChill 2 to 3 hours becooled filling into crust. Top maining crumbs. Fore serving. 1 Ib. Cottage cheese 1 C. Sour cream 1 c. Confectioners' sugar "2 tsp. Vanilla /2 tsp. Almond extract 1 tbsp. (1 envelope) unflavored gelatin "2 C. Hot water 1 C. Raisins 1 tbsp. Granulated sugar "4 c. Chopped candied fruit walnuts, chopped almonds, crystallized cherries, optional Soak raisins in granulated sugar and hot water for one-half hour. In large bowl, dissolve gelatin with sour cream. Add cottage cheese, and beat until smooth. Add confectioners' sugar, vanilla, and almond extract. Drain raisins, add with chopped candied fruit to cottage cheese mixture. Pour into large cone-shaped mold. Leave in refrigerator overnight. Unmold just before serving; garnish with walnuts and cherries, if desired. 597 Audrey King 4% vasr selling bazaar item or a verv appropriate gift for the newborn is embroidered felt baby bootees. They require only a small amount of material and can be made in two or three hours. Their small size provides an appealing miniature of the boots babies wear when they are older, and the tiny embroidery on them makes them a real conversation piece. The pattern included here fits most babies until they are about two and a half months old, although it can be easily enlarged, if desired, for other babies. Material required (for one pair of bootees) fine white felt, 9" x 8" 2/3 yd. Pink or blue nbbon fine cotton, 9" x 12" 1 skein of embroidery thread, pink or blue PATTERN There are just three pieces to the pattern. Lav the pieces on the felt and cut them out. Reverse each piece and cut again. By reversing the pattern in this way, the proper shaping for a right and left foot will be achieved. The cotton lining is cut out in the same way, but 1/4" should be allowed around each piece for turning under later. Cut the inside corners of each toe piece lining as illustrated. CUT LINING | A suggested pattern layout 598 THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT SEWING Baste the appropriate pieces of cotton to the inside of the felt pieces, turning the cotton edge under 1/4", making sure that the cotton reaches near the edges of the felt pieces. PATTERN PIECES Right Toe (for left, reverse) Right Back B _ (for left, reverse) Right sole (for left sole, reverse) 599 AUGUST 1963 Baste the lined toe pieces to the lined soles, taking care to match the right toe with the right sole and the left toe piece with the left sole. At this stage a design may be embroidered on the toe, or the toe may be embroidered before lining. Some suggested designs are shown below. Baste the lined box pieces to the soles, overlapping the toe pieces to the sides. Starting at the junction of the back piece to the toe piece, make very fine blanket stitches all around the sole, joining the toe and back pieces to the sole securely as you do so. Stitch around the top part of the boot as shown, then stitch around the tongue. The first 6 or 7 stitches should be sewed through the toe piece in order to anchor the back piece securely. ES Ley de Make four holes where indicated for the laces on each shoe. Scissors points are suitable for doing this. Pierce through the lining, but do not make the holes too big. Blanket stitch around the holes, making sure you catch the lining. Thread the ribbon through the holes, pull out the basting threads if you have not done so already, and the bootees are finished! 600 THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT fad apse OOOO pip ipay aoe, ye ys: 55, 5, Hints for a Happy Day *s, = i, Pa Janet W. Breeze i, s s 4 f, 2 WA arirarer cleaner makes a good 4 Ss modeling dough for children to use and 4 seems more pliable than the kind you % would normally buy. It can be easily 4 stored in a plastic bag in your refrigerator. 4 The molded creations can be dried in a 2 day or two and then painted with water 4 s Are your little ones learning to dress 2 themselves? Iron four-color transfers onto the fronts of undershirts and panties for fewer turnabouts. A long, heavy shoelace (the kind you lace a shoe skate with) is excellent for "@,, stringing empty spools. Z S z & i 3 e colors. & 3 & * *. Oe "ge 'S%g9 Me ep. Me, « ¢ "fase Ping, Pohl Drawer Dividends ORDER OF THE DAY Ever heard this one before? You neatly fold each clean little undershirt, pair of socks, and coveralls, and place them in their own special corner of the drawer. Along comes you-know-who, looking for his or her little Sunday handkerchief and. "That's no drawer,'' you say, "it's the inside of a wind tunnel." The next time this happens at your house, regardless of the age of the individual involved, start filling each drawer with shoe boxes, deep candy boxes—anything—that will hold and separate the articles of apparel, and just see if the situation doesn't improve. *. Oh yes — one word of caution. To avoid utter havoc and stuck drawers, please don't put the lids back on the boxes. REAL TOP-DRAWER If you are one of those mothers or grandmothers who delights in buying educational toys (you know—those colorful little plastic things which are quickly subdivided into complicated pigces), and then you spend each ensuing day hearing them crunch underfoot—make a rule! _ Keep such items separate from other toys and completely out of the child's reach. Then — issue these put-together toys, one group at a time, and only after the previous model has been re-assembled and returned. 601 Martha B. Anderson Makes Afghans of Original Designs Marra Bowen Anderson, Salt Lake City, Utah, enjoys her hobby of making afghans of unusual designs. She has set herself the goal of making an afghan for each of her children and each of her grandchildren. To date she has made sixteen afghans, eight of them for friends who admired her work and asked her to make an afghan for them. Her most original designs were scout patterns. Each merit badge earned was copied on an afghan block, and then the blocks were set together to complete the afghan. Complying with the request of one of her grandsons, Mrs. Anderson made a special knitted afghan in the pattern chosen by the grandson. Mrs. Anderson is also an expert quilter and makes beautiful tatted lace and trimmings. Her needlepoint work and her hooked rugs have received much admiration, and she tries every new handicraft presented in Relief Society work meetings. Early in her married life Mrs. Anderson was widowed. She completed her education and taught school for thirty-one years. In 1951 she was chosen "Mother of the Year' for Tooele County. She helped to educate her children. The daughter has a master's degree in nutrition, and the son is a psychiatrist. 602 Synopsis: Luana Harrington, her husband Ben, his mother Tutu, and the children, Philip, Pixie, Bo, and Benjy, who live on a pineapple plantation on the island of Maui, plan to go to Honolulu to meet the eldest daughter in the family, Emma Lu, who has graduated as a nurse in San Francisco, and is returning home. BS anys ran around the table to Luana and put his head on_ her shoulder. "Mama," he whispered. "Did I do something wrong? I didn't know Bo drew the picture. Honest, Mama." "No, dear," Luana soothed him, holding him closely. "It wasn't drawing the picture of Drucie that was so wrong, although that is a very unkind thing to do. But letting Charlie take the blame is very, very wrong." Philip looked at his wrist watch. He shrugged his shoulders, significantly. Pixie said in a soft little voice, "Tl stay home with Bo, if Daddy won't let him go." Tutu said quickly, "No, dear. I will stay. I have seen the ship come in many times. I don't want you to miss it." The door opened. Bo followed his father back to the table. Every- 603 AUGUST 1963 one breathed a sigh of relief as thev looked at them. Bo was smiling. "Bo and I decided that he owes Charlie an apology. Also Miss Carson and his classmates. But we also decided that he will take care of that tomorrow at school. Today, we'll all go to meet Emma Lu when the big white ship comes in!" "Goodie!" Benjv velled. "Oh, goodie, Daddy!" "Thanks," Luana murmured. Ben looked at Philip. "Bring the station wagon to the side door so Tutu won't have to go down the steps," he said kindly. "We're dining at the Halekulani." "Hurray!" Pixie jumped to her feet. "The Halekulani is my favorite place. I'll order stuffed fish. No diet for me today!" "You can climb the ladder on shipside, can't you?" Benjy asked Tutu. Tutu shook her head. "I'm too old to climb ladders, Benjy. [ll wait on the pier while you all go out in the launch." "Let's get the show on the road," Phil called impatiently from the doorway. "We have to be at the airport in twenty-five minutes and it's ten miles away. Planes won't wait — even for the Harringtons!"' Ar three o'clock, Luana stood on the pier in Honolulu, watching with her family as the great white liner from San Francisco moved majestically across the water near Diamond Head. Thev were waiting for a launch to take them out to meet the ship. "Oh, Mama! Just look! The whole world is a fairvland," Pixie exclaimed. 604 "I am_ looking, dear,' Luana answered. "The color, the music, the laughing, singing people. I love it all!" "And the leis!" Tutu said gaily. "IT have never seen such leis in all my years. And flowers in everyone's hair!" "It's like seeeing the rainbow come to life," Luana said, ecstatically. "I could dance on the waves, Tutu." Ben drew her arm through his, holding her hand tightly. "T remember the first time you saw all this," he whispered. "It was part of our honeymoon." Luana could hardly breathe for joy. She put her hands out, reaching upward. "Ben — it's raining!" "Why sure!" he laughed. "Who objects to a little liquid sunshine. That's part of Hawaii." "The Hawaiian girls on_ that launch will get their ti-leaf skirts wet," Pixie cried. "They don't care," Phil laughed. "Look — here's our launch. Come on, family!" All of them but Tutu hurried down the long wooden ramp into the waiting launch. She waited on the pier. "Here goes!" a passenger beside Luana called out as he tossed several coins into the churning waters surrounding the big ship. Hawaiian boys, their bronze bodies bobbing about, watched the coins strike the water, making bubbles as they sank — dollars, dimes, quarters. Squealing and pushing each other, the boys dived after them, stuffing them in their cheeks as they grabbed them. "I miss the sea gulls in these waters," Luana said to Ben. "I thought they were in every harbor in the world." "Not here," Ben explained. '""Thev don't like Hawaiian waters. 'They were brought here once, but died of homesickness, folks said. We have plenty of birds, though. Look at those frigate birds sliding across the water now. Aren't they graceful?" "Well — yes," Luana admitted. "But I love the sea gulls best." "Of course you do," Ben said. "T love them, too, because they were an answer to prayer when the saints needed help." A huge plane roared across the sky. Benjy and Bo leaned their heads back, following it with their eyes. "That's a multi-engine jet," Phil told them. "Boy, is it fast!" "Faster than a dart," Bo said, his voice awestruck. "Or this," Benjy said, knifing his hand through the air. "Can we fly again with you and Larry, Phil? Bo savs Larrys stuck on Emma Lu, doesn't he, Phil?" Philip glared at his little brothers sitting opposite him. "Suppose he is,' he clipped. "That's his business. You talk too much." "They sure do," Pixie agreed. Luana, listening to them, met Ben's eyes. He had heard, too. She knew that he was thinking Larry Brown would have to settle down if he wanted Emma Lu. He was a pilot for Transocean Airlines now. He and Emma Lu had been schoolday sweethearts, but she had been away for three years. She would be grown up and professional now. She had not asked about Larry in KISS OF THE WIND her letters for a long time. "Climb on," Phil yelled as the launch came to shipside. "Me first!" Bo started up the ladder after Phil. Benjy followed, then Pixie, Luana, and Ben. Tue air was full of music and laughter. Dozens of Hawaiian girls, carrying armfuls of leis were dancing through the crowds, singing and swaying to the music. Luana breathed the odor of a sweet ginger lei as a girl, with flowing black hair, draped it around her neck. "Aloha!" The girl flashed her white smile. "Happy, happy aloha!" "Aloha to you," Luana answered. "Thank you very much. I love the ginger flower." Then they saw Emma Lu pushing her way through the crowds of people with outstretched arms, eyes glowing. Her brothers were the first to meet her. Phil swept her off her feet in his strong young arms. Benjy said, "We've got a surprise for you, Emma Lu. We waited for vou to name him." Then she was kissing Luana, hugging Ben and Pixie, and smiling through her tears. Emma Lu was as tall as Luana, a bright, efficient looking girl, fresh as the morning. Only her dark eyes showed she was capable of deep feeling. "I'm so glad to be home!" she breathed. "How I love it!" She included everything with a wide sweep of her hand. "My own part of America. Hawaii. And I brought a surprise. Wait nght here!" She rushed into the crowd and came back with a fair-haired, laugh- 605 AUGUST 1963 ing young woman in her thirties, Margaret Lester, Luana's sister-inlaw. "Margaret!" Luana gasped. "How wonderful! Did Tom come with you?" He'll come later," Margaret answered. "I've come to paint the town with you, Luana. I mean that. They tell me Hawai is the most beautiful spot in the world. I want to put it on canvas." "We'll have a grand time," Luana said, remembering the fine paintings that Margaret had done. Ben said, heartily, "This is a real treat, Margaret. Luana hasn't seen you since we went to the Mainland when you and Tom were married." "Ten years ago!' she laughed. "Tom will be here as soon as he can arrange it." Her voice softened wistfully. "We want you and Luana to go through the Temple at Laie with us." "We'll try to," Ben said. "Where's Tutu?" Emma Lu asked, looking around. "Why isn't she here?" "She's waiting on the pier,' Ben explained., Benjy said, "She can't climb ladders. She says she's half dead." "Benjy!"" Ben looked at him, reprovingly. "Your Grandmother is forever young in heart. Think of her that way." "He doesn't ever think," Bo said, disgustedly. "He just talks." "No one is ever old in Hawaii," Emma Lu interrupted. ""This is the land of eternal youth." Margaret was looking at the twins with the old yearning in her eyes. Luana felt her heart reach out to her. Margaret and Tom had been 606 married ten years, and still no babies. "You are the cutest boys I ever saw,' Margaret said as she stooped to kiss each tanned cheek. "Emma Lu is so proud of you. She told me you are both deacons now and pass the sacrament." "Let's show Aunt Margaret the town," Pixie suggested. "When do we surf-ride?" Phil interrupted. "Right away," Ben said. "You can drive us to the beach as soon as we dock." "Oh, look!" Benjy yelled, "There is Aloha 'Tower, Aunt Margaret. Look how pink it is." "It is pink!" she answered, rapturously. "Pinker than frosting on a cake." "Pinker than a monkey's tongue," Bo said. "Pinker than the rainbow," Pixie breathed. The big white liner came slowly to port. They all watched as the sailors threw the heavy ropes that the workmen below fastened to the huge iron stanchions on the pier. Then they hurried down the ramp to where Tutu was waiting for them, holding the Roselani lei she had made for Emma Lu. "Aloha, my darling," she whispered, as Emma Lu _ hugged her tenderly. "I have been waiting for this day. It would be more than I could bear to part with you again." Luana, watching them, saw the sudden shadow in Emma Lu's eyes. She was keeping some secret from them, Luana thought, with a mother's intuition. Emma Lu swung Tutu's hands as she used to do when she was a little girl several years ago. "Aloha to you, darling Tutu," she sang out gaily. ""This is my happy day, too. I love the Roselani lei the best of all. And you remembered!"' "This is Lei Day, Aunt Margaret," Benjy told her. "Know how I tremember when Lei Day is coming? May Day is Lei Day," he chanted. "Our teacher told us Don Blanding was a poet, and he gave us this idea in 1928. Everybody in all our seven Hawaiian Islands has to wear a lei. All except Kahoolawe maybe, because that island is only a target practice island for the Navy and the Marines. We even have cowboys in Hawau, Aunt Margaret. 'They wear leis on Lei Day." Ben smiled. He patted Benjy's head as they walked along. "I'm depending on you boys, and Pixie, too, and Philip, to give your Aunt Margaret a real story about Hawaii while she is our visitor." "I want to show her the Iolani Palace," Pixie said. "It's the only palace on American soil, Aunt Margaret." "T can hardly wait," swered. "Here we are," Ben said, as he opened the door of the big car they had rented. 'We always leave our own car at the Maui airport. Phil, you drive. We'll let Tutu and Margaret sit up front with you. The boys and I will take these jumpseats in the middle. Mama and Emma Lu and Pixie can have the back seat all to themselves. All set?" "You can rent anything over here, Aunt Margaret," Philip told her as Margaret anKISS OF THE WIND they cruised along King Street. "One big company bought all the war surplus jeeps and rents them out to visitors. One company painted them pink and put fringe on top. They're keen for mountain travel. Look, Dad, we better explain directions here in Honolulu to Aunt Margaret, so she'll never get lost." "Let me, Daddy," know how." Ben nodded, and Bo went on: "Everyone says 'Mauka' if they mean toward the mountains. They say 'Makai' if they mean toward the sea. If they want to go toward the big sugar mill west of Honolulu, they say 'Evoa.' Only it's spelled 'E-W-A." And if they want to go toward the beach, they say "Waikiki!'" "Well done!" Ben said. "I couldn't have done a better job, son. You have a very good teacher." "Tutu taught us,' Bo said, smiling proudly at his grandmother. "She's the best teacher in the whole world," Benjy chimed in. Tutu turned to look at them. Her faded cheeks pinked up and her eyes twinkled, but her voice was humble. "I am not informed on the new teaching methods, boys. I am sure you have a fine teacher at your school. But I do know my Hawani from the tops of the volcanoes to the coral beaches and the blue, blue sea. 'Ask me of Hawaii," she quoted, "'T will tell you of islands so ravishingly beautiful it is like living in a flower, though snow may cap their lofty mountain peaks.' " "T love it already," Margaret told her. "And the people are so friendly Bo said. "I 607 AUGUST 1963 looking, all smiling. See them over there, every kind in the world!" "That's right," Phil agreed. "In that crowd on the corner, there are Filipinos, Japanese, Chinese, 'Tahitians, and that tall Man is Portuguese. "But they are all completely, passionately American, Margaret," Ben said. "We call the undiluted Caucasians Haoles. 'They are onlv about twenty per cent of the population." "What's a Caucasian, Benjy wanted to know. "You're one, stupid,' Bo whispered. "But I've never seen so many kinds of people all in one city," Margaret said. "You'll get used to it," Daddy?" her. "You'll soon realize they are your countrymen. Hawaii is a true democracy." Warr until you hear them sing "The Star-Spangled Banner,' " Tutu murmured. "Then you will be sure they are all Americans." "Or, 'Come, Come, Ye Saints! Luana chimed in from the back seat. "A good many are Latter-day Saints." "Let's show Aunt Margaret the statue of old Kamehameha on the next corner,' Bo suggested. "He was the first big powerful king of all the islands, Aunt Margaret," he went on dramatically, as Phil drove Slowly past the statue. "Eight chiefs threw their spears at him all at once." "He was super-king," Benjy interrupted. "He dodged two spears, knocked three out of his way, and fe? Caught the other three in his hands! > 99 608 Ben told "Let me tell her!" Bo cried. "Daddy, make Benjy let. Me tell my ewn stories He always butts in." Ben smiled indulgently at his twin boys.. "IT know, Bo. "But Benjy is ten minutes older than you are. Forgive him for trying to keep ahead of you. And, remember, we can't tell Aunt Margaret everything at once." As the conversation and the sightseeing went on, Luana and Emma Lu were talking together in low whispers. "T know, Mama,'"* Emma Lu was saying breathlessly. "I should, have written home about it. But "you know how we Harringtons 'love surprises." "But Emma Lu, an engagement is so serious. Your Father should have been consulted before you promised to marry anyone.". » "Oh, Mama, I love him. So. I'm sure you swill, too," Emma Lu protested. "And I've only been engaged since last week. 'There's hardly been time to consult with vou. Look, Mama." She lifted a gold chain around her throat. A diamond ring dangled from it. "T won't wear it until you and Daddy approve," she said. "Will you ask 'Daddy for me, Mama?" Luana looked at her husband, laughing with his twin boys. He was devoted to his family. There was no sacrifice he would not make for them. But he demanded their respect and obedience in return. "No, Emma Lu,' Luana answered in a quiet voice. "You must tell him yourself. He would expect vou to do that." (To be continued ) RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Tooele Stake (Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers at Convention and Luncheon April 20, 1963 Left to right: Emma Bryant, Tooele First Ward, oldest visiting teacher in the stake; Elizabeth B. Winters, member, General Board of Relief Society; Olive Gordan, Tooele Fourth Ward, oldest visiting teacher in service, fifty-three years; Ann Faris, Fooele Eleventh Ward, who, although handicapped by blindness, is still an active visiting teacher. Alice Harrison, President, Tooele Stake Relief Society, reports that all the visiting teachers of the stake were honored and presented with corsages, and special gifts were presented to Sister Bryant, Sister Gordan, and Sister Faris. Sister Winters gave an inspirational talk and presented slides on pioneer history.. 609 AUGUST 1963 Huntington Park Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present M for Aany Occasi ions Front row, left to nght: Effie Wilkinson; Ilah Anstine; Atje Heilkema; Ida Taylor; Merle LeSuer; Cleo Webb, stake chorister; Grace Blackham, stake organist; Willa Mason; Dorothy Warren; Zola Hodson and Dorothy Rasmusson, Counselors, Huntington Park Stake Relief Society; Laura R. Shimp, President, Huntington Park Stake Relief Society. Other members of the Singing Mothers chorus are seen standing in the second and third rows. Sister Shimp reports: ""The Huntington Park Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers are actively engaged in singing for many occasions. In March 1962 we enjoyed a very successful anniversary party. A dramatic presentation "The Place of Woman in the Gospel Plan' was portrayed. The Singing Mothers furnished three beautiful numbers. Our visiting teacher convention was held in May. The theme was 'Every Latter-day Saint Sister a Relief Society Member.' A short humorous play 'Relief Society Why' was elegantly portrayed. The Singing Mothers furnished the music. The visiting teachers each resolved to bring in a new member during the year. "The Singing Mothers also sang at our last stake quarterly conference. Much praise was given for the beauty of their renditions. We know that the Singing Mothers added beauty and inspiration through song to each occasion. We love and appreciate them for their service. Much of the success of this group is due to exceptional talents and the untiring efforts and faithful services of our chorister and organist. We are thankful for these opportunities, and feel that our testimonies were strengthened by these experiences. This picture was taken at our visiting teacher convention." Mount Jordan Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Easter J Christmas Cantata, and Other Occasions Front row, left to right: Beth N. Samuelson, First Counselor; LaVerda Lloyd, President; Nina Despain, Second Counselor. Front row, at the right: Wilma Day, accompanist on the organ for special occasions. Second row, third from the right: Jean Enniss, director; fourth from the mght: Regina Roden, accompanist. Sister Lloyd reports: "During the last year this chorus has presented an Easter sunrise service and a Christmas cantata. It has sung for stake conferences, various sacrament meetings, and also presented the Christmas program for the stake high priests' meeting. We are very proud of our chorus and feel that the sisters are continually developing their talents and are sharing them. With others." West Central States Mission, Melstone Branch, Yellowstone District, < I " Left to right: Nancy D. Maart, Secretary-Treasurer; Dorothy K. Hendricks, First Counselor; Rose S. Lear, President; Esther R. Kicker, social science class leader. Hazel K. Woolley, President, West Central States Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Melstone Branch Relief Society, a small organization, has found the secret for holding a successful bazaar: cooperation with the nonmember women in the community. 'These nonmembers support the bazaars by donating to them, and also buying the items for sale. They especially like the 'Mormon bread' (whole-wheat bread made by the sisters), and the items sewed by the sisters. The four active members of this small branch were able to raise $185 by hard work and living the golden rule. '... Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them.' "' 610 lM DG lvoe t9hs 611 AUGUST 1963 Lavinia B. Jackson, President, El] Paso Stake Relief Society, reports this unusually effective presentation: "The pageant "The Time Is Come,' written by Ivie Huish Jones for the El Paso Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers, was presented as a part of the Christmas program. 'The songs in the drama were taken from the anthem by Sister ones. ) "The drama was prepared to show that the Lord has spoken through his prophets since the foundation of the world; that he has not forgotten the Lamanites, nor the promises made to their forefathers whom he brought out of Jerusalem to this choice land now called the Americas, and that they knew of the coming of the Savior. "Felipe Lariano, who is Lieutenant Governor of the Sandia Indian tribe, was in attendance. Previously, he had discovered many written records in a wall of a building that was being torn down, and he remembered Brother Lorin Jones and Sister Ivie Huish Jones, who had worked among the Indians in Albuquerque, New Mexico, several years ago. He traveled to El Paso and looked up the Jones family and gave them the valuable records. They proved to be of great worth in genealogical research. After the pageant, the Lieutenant Governor was presented with The Book of Mormon used in the pageant. "Barbara Jean West, chorister, and Sherron Galbraith, organist with the Singing Mothers, and soloists, presented the musical part of the program and pageant, with harmony and devotion suitable to the sacred occasion." Parleys Stake (Utah) Relief Society Anniversary Observance Left to nght: Mildred D. Porter, First Counselor; Edythe K. Watson, President; Norma Gillespie, Second Counselor; Margaret Brown, Secretary. Sister Watson reports: "For our annual birthday luncheon this year, Parley's Stake inaugurated a new program, and we are still excited and thrilled and feel stimulated to reach for higher goals next year, because of the enthusiastic response. "We asked our ward presidencies to extend their personal invitations to include all the women in their ward areas, non Latter-day Saints, as well as Latter-day Saints, the nonmembers to be contacted personally, as well as by their invitations. Special attention was given to the inactive sisters, as well. "On a stake basis, we followed the same plan for the working women in our stake area with an evening party. Personal, hand-written invitations were sent to nonmembers and members alike, and the ward presidents followed up with a personal contact. "Our ward birthday friendship parties were delightful, with a special emphasis placed on the growth and development of Relief Society since 1842, and enumerating its many benefits for all women. Our evening party was most successful, too. A lovely program was given, and our attractive serving table was centered with a beautiful and delicious birthday cake on which was written the theme of our party: 'Love — Sisterhood — Service.' Stake President W. Jay Eldredge, Jr., and his counselors were in attendance, and President Eldredge cut the cake, which was served to all present with love and friendship. "Some 630 sisters were in attendance at the six parties, and were touched by the wonderful spirit of Relief Society, and of this number, thirty-six were nonmembers who seemed most pleased to be included." 614 ' *., 615 Late, | N \ (5) ZW LESSON DEPARTMENT MSG eae THEOLOGY e The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 50 — "Ye Are on the Lord's Errand" Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 64:15-43) For First Meeting, November 1963 Objective: To suggest ways in which the saints of 1831 were on the "Lord's errand" and what this term means to us. INTRODUCTION From the last lesson we learned that Section 64 of the Doctrine and Covenants was received so that certain elders who were preparing to leave for Jackson County, Missouri, might understand the purposes of the Lord concerning themselves and the glories to be received by the faithful. | Because some of these elders lacked a forgiving spirit, the Lord revealed anew his law of forgiveness with a warning that members of his kingdom who would not repent would lose their citizenship in that kingdom by disobedience to the commandments. EZRA BOOTH AND ISAAC MORLEY As if to present an object lesson in the principles that had just been made known, Section 64 continues by referring to two individuals — Ezra Booth and Isaac Morley. The 616 former is known as one "who was my servant," while the latter retains his membership in the Church, for "I have forgiven my servant Isaac Morley." Both of these men "kept not the law, neither the commandment. They condemned for evil that thing in which there was no evil " (D & C 64:15-16). It is evident, from the counsel concerning forgiveness in this revelation, that Brother Morley repented of his sin, while Ezra Booth decided to leave the kingdom of God. At the time of this revelation Isaac Morley was counselor to Edward Partridge, Presiding Bishop of the Church, and remained so until 1840 when Bishop Partridge died. An indication of the depth of their conversion to the gospel and of the character of these two men is plainly apparent from the Lord's acceptance of one and his rejection of the unrepentant. Isaac Morley accepted the meaning of "Ye are on the Lord's errand." When Brother Morley accepted the gospel in 1830, his life thereafter was dedicated to the furtherance of the cause of Zion. One can believe that he accepted the commandment to sell his farm, as mentioned in verse 20 of Section 64. He is described as a man of loyalty to God's servants who was willing to consecrate all of his wealth to building up Zion while participating in numerous Church positions. (Romney, THomas C.: The Gospel in Action, pp. 113-118.) On the other hand, Ezra Booth lives in infamy in the annals of the Church. He is sometimes mentioned as an example of one who was converted by a miracle. 'The wife of Father Johnson was unable to raise her arm for two years. As a friend of the family, Ezra Booth, a Methodist priest, was present when the Prophet Joseph Smith and the elders administered to her, restoring her arm to instant use. Soon after this healing, Booth was baptized. President George A. Smith said that when Booth had to preach without purse or scrip, he felt that there were better ways of "earning" a livelihood. 'The Prophet reported that when Booth learned,... That faith, humility, patience, and tribulation go before blessing, and that God brings low before He exalts; that instead of the "Savior's granting him power to smite men and make them believe," (as he said he wanted God to do in his own case) — when he found he must become all things to all men, that he might peradventure save some; and that, too, by all diligence, by perils by sea and land, as was the case in the days of Jesus — then he was disappointed (DHC I:216). Under these circumstances Booth LESSON DEPARTMENT apostatized and, as is true with many apostates, he sought to justify himself by publishing a series of lying letters as evidence against the Church. His apostasy contributed to the organization of a mob that tarred and feathered Joseph Smith, and caused the death of one of his adopted children. (DHC_ 1:260- 265.) Edward Partridge at this time was guilty of "unbelief and blindness of heart." "'Unbelief,' in this case means 'weak faith' (as in Mark 9:24), and it was, perhaps, the cause of the blindness of heart" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 339). Again, the faithful, diligent member who errs, corrects his life, and learns that the Lord is merciful and forgiving. (D & C 64:17.) During this period the establishment of the Church in two general areas was begun. Kirtland, Ohio, became the headquarters of the Church. With the designation of western Missouri as Zion, and the dedication of the land and the temple site, that area began its part in the growing Church. Many saints felt the urge to assemble in Missourt. Sidney Gilbert was commanded to establish a business in Zion (D & C 64:18), while Frederick G. Williams was to retain his holdings in Kirtland that a strong hold might be maintained there. (Ibid., verse 21.) 'This verse is a prophecy that was literally fulfilled by subsequent events. In verse 26, Newel K. Whitney and Sidney Gilbert are counseled to retain their store and their possessions so that 617 AUGUST 1963 the Lord's purposes for Kirtland might be fulfilled. After five years "any with an open heart'' was free to assemble in the land of Zion. (Ibid., verse 22.) What did the Lord have in store for Kirtland in five years from then? On April 3, 1836, the Kirtland 'Temple became the most important edifice on the earth at that time. By the labor of the saints, amid poverty and persecution, the Lord had commanded that this holy house should be reared to his name, that he might visit his people in that structure. It was there that the capstone of Priesthood keys was received by Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery from personages from beyond the veil. (Section 110.) The events of April 3, 1836, brought a turning point in world events by the restoration of keys of Priesthood pertaining to the gathering of Israel from the corners of the earth. As a result of this authority, Latter-day Saints have come out of the world into a life of "being on the Lord's errand." 'The gathering includes the restoration of the Jewish people to their homeland, long predicted by Bible and Book of Mormon prophets. (Jer. 30:3; 2 Nephi 30:7-8.) The great missionary movement of the Church began its world-wide activity after Moses restored these keys. The bringing of the gospel of Abraham with the keys of the restoration of all things (D & C 110:12), and, finally, the keys of sealing powers for the living and the dead, with the important work of salvation for the dead by Elijah, began a tremendous activity for the salvation of man. (Ibid., 13-16.) The Lord Jesus Christ visited his 618 temple at that time to accept it as his house with the message that this would be the beginning of the blessings to be received for the benefit of his people. (Ibid., verses 1-10.) When one considers the impact of these events upon the future of the Church and the world, one can easily understand why some of the saints were commanded to continue their daily activities in Kirtland. Their work was also to help the saints "obtain an inheritance in the land of Zion" (D & C 64:30). COUNSEL ON DEBT The members of the Church mentioned in Section 64 (and the other saints) were counseled to keep out of debt to their enemies. ( Verses 27-28.) For the Church to be in debt to those who were unfriendly might have brought failure to the cause of Zion in that area. The instructions given about retaining material possessions and keeping out of debt remind the Latter-day Saint that the Lord provides his people with counsel in their temporal affairs. As to individuals, the authorities of the Church have advised our people against the burden of debt. Elder Marriner W. Merrill told a general conference of the Church that a financier gave him the key to getting out of debt. "It was simply this: 'Stop immediately from going into debt. Don't go into debt another dollar until you get out and are free'" (Conference Report, April 1899, page 15). "YE ARE LAYING THE FOUNDATION" As one studies the beginning of this dispensation, he sometimes wonders if the membership of the Church realized the full significance of these words: And behold, I, the Lord, declare unto you, and my words are sure and shall not fail, that they shall obtain it. But all things must come to pass in their time. Wherefore, be not weary in well-doing, for ye are laying the foundation of a great work. And out of small things proceedeth that which is great (D & C 64:31-33). In 1833, Wilford Woodruff met the Prophet for the first time. He attended a meeting where many of the brethren bore testimony of the restoration. Brother Woodruff said at a general conference in 1898:.. When they got through the Prophet said, "Brethren I have been very much edified and instructed in your testimonies here tonight, but I want to say to you before the Lord, that you know no more concerning the destinies of this Church and kingdom than a babe upon its mothers lap. You don't comprehend it." I was rather surprised. He said "'it is only a little handful of Priesthood you see here tonight, but this Church will fill North and South America — it will fill the world." Among other things he. Said, "it will fill the Rocky Mountains. There will be tens of thousands of Latter-day Saints who will be gathered in the Rocky Mountains, and there they will open the door for the establishing of the Gospel among the Lamanites, who will receive the Gospel and their endowments and the blessings of God. 'This people will go into the Rocky Mountains; they will there build temples to the Most High. 'They will raise up a posterity there, and the Latter-day Saints who dwell in_ these mountains will stand in the flesh until the coming of the Son of Man. The Son of Man will come to them while in the Rocky Mountains." I name these things because I want to bear testimony before God, angels and men that mine eyes behold the day, and have beheld for the last fifty years of my life, the fulfillment of that prophecy. I never expected to see the Rocky Mountains when I listened to that man's voice, LESSON DEPARTMENT but I have, and do today (Conference Report, April 1898, page 57). It was not only the brethren of 1831 who were laying the foundation of a great work, but the Priesthood of 1833 and 1836 and of the entire period of this dispensation, even in our time of 1963. Each Latter-day Saint who accepts the "Lord's errand" is building a foundation of a great work which will eventually fill the whole earth. Every program of the Church participated in, every contribution given, every work performed with a willing heart and obedient spirit will find rich rewards in assisting the new generation to carry on in building for the ultimate victory of eternal life. Should not every Latter-day Saint feel encouraged that out of small things proceedeth that which is great? The contribution may appear small but in the aggregate it builds for the future. "FOR THE TITHING OF MY PEOPLE" We have learned that the Lord instituted the law of consecration for the benefit of the poor among the saints in the early part of this dispensation. (Lesson 28, Relief Society Magazine, October 1960.) Although it was lived in Thompson, Ohio, and the saints were later commanded to practice it in Missouri, the apparent failure of the saints to live that law was foreshadowed in Section 64. 'The law of tithing is known as a schoolmaster to bring people to the greater law of consecration. Elder Francis M. Lyman pointed out in a general conference that,... Any person who is not able to observe this law [tithing] faithfully and well will never, worlds without end, be 619 AUGUST 1963 able to observe the law of consecration. The law of tithing is a stepping stone, and it is a law that will abide forever, because a great majority possibly of the children of God will not be able to reach the higher law (Conference Report, October 1899, page 34). It was in July 1838, that the Lord commanded his people to observe the law of tithing. Yet, in 1831, the saints were informed that certain judgment would come upon those who did not observe this law when it was introduced. 'Tithing also has the connotation of sacrifice as suggested in verse 23 of Section On the law of tithing and obedience, President Joseph F. Smith said: "Obedience is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams." It is the heart and the willing mind that the Lord requires of His people, and not so much their substance. He does not need our obedience. But we need to be obedient; for it is through obedience that we will receive the reward. So I come to the conclusion that the principal thing about tithe paying is obedience to the law, and that more good will come to us through that obedience than to anybody else. We may be worth our tens of thousands, and pay an honest tithing on our income, making our tithing a large amount; yet the good that will come to ourselves by being obedient to the law of God will be far greater in the end than the good which our substance may do to the poor (Conference Report, April 1899, page 69). The heart is associated in scripture as the seat of emotions, and when applied to this scripture it probably means that only those who love the Lord intensely will reap the blessings. Behold, the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind; and the willing and 620 obedient shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last days (D & C 64:34). The saints of 1831 were no different from the saints of 1963 in the Lord requiring whole-souled devotion to the labor of the kingdom. Those who are "on the Lord's errand" all the days of their lives will not come under the condemnation of the rebellious who shall be cut off from the land of Zion, for these are not of the chosen blood of Ephraim and must be plucked out. (D & C 64:35-36.) In commenting upon the context of these verses, President George Q. Cannon said: From the beginning of this Church until the present the men and women who have been obedient to the counsel of God's servants have always been the most favored. President [Brigham] Young, during the lifetime of the Prophet Joseph, was always noted for his strict obedience to the prophet. Brother Joseph never made any requirement of him that he did not strictly comply with. The same may be said of the other faithful men who, during his lifetime, were associated with him. But the disobedient and rebellious have been, as the Lord said they should be, cut off. Oliver Cowdery was with Joseph when John the Baptist came to them and ordained them to the Aaronic Priesthood. He was the second apostle in the Church also, and a witness of the Book of Mormon, the angel of the Lord having shown him the plates. But he was disobedient to the prophet and he could not stand. It might be thought that he was so near to Joseph and so favored of God that it was not necessary for him to do exactly as the prophet told him; but not so. There is an order in the church of Christ which all must observe, and no one can be disobedient without bringing the displeasure of the Lord upon him. This is a principle which all should learn (Juvenile Instructor, Vol. 10, 1875, page 222). In the historical content of Section 64, verses 34 to 36 are prophetic. When the saints were ex- pelled from Jackson county in 1833, they had not fully subscribed to the law which the Lord had given, due to carelessness, neglect, and wickedness. 'Therefore, they were "plucked out" of the land, and were "sent away." The principle laid down in verses 37 through 39 — the children of Zion shall judge all things pertaining to Zion — is consistent with verse 5, because Zion's inhabitants know how to detect the deceivers. False prophets are known by Latterday Saints because of the keys against deception which the Lord has provided for their use. First, their spurious revelations are to be judged by the criterion given in Sections 28 and 43; namely, there is only one person at a time who is empowered to receive revelation for the Church. (Lesson 18, Relief Society Magazine, August 1959; Lesson 49, July 1962.) Second, the false teachers may be judged by the standard set forth in Section 52:9, 36 — by the teachings of the ancient and modern apostles and prophets in the true Church of Jesus Christ. (Lesson 36, Relief Society Magazine, October 1961.) The Lord declares that all things pertaining to Zion will be judged by the Church, and, eventually, the nations will be judged by the Church. In the due time of the Lord judgment will be meted out to all. As the early saints were told not to be weary in well-doing for they were laying the foundation or a great work, so also they were told LESSON DEPARTMENT that their work would eventuate in the building of a Zion upon this continent that would be the admiration of the world. (Read D & C 64:41-43.) |. To the brethren mentioned in Section 64, the Lord said that, as his agents, they were "on the Lord's errand" (Verse 29). We are all agents of the Lord and are all on his errand. By covenant we are committed through faithful, loyal devotion to build on the foundation laid in the past, eventually to terminate in the Zion that shall flourish, where the glory of the Lord will be there. But how shall we measure up to being on the Lord's errand? Elder George Teasdale of the Council of the 'Twelve, suggested this idea: We are the redeemed of the Lord. We have accepted of the principles of redemption, and consequently have been sanctified in the precious blood of Christ. Those who love God and keep his commandments represent Him and the Lord Jesus Christ. They love one another, and they are known by their works. 'Their faith is manifested by their works (Conference Report, April 1898, page 52). Questions for Discussion 1. What benefit did the Church receive by maintaining a strong hold in Kirtland? 2. Give reasons why keeping out of debt is good advice. 3. How does "'ye are laying the founda. Tion of a great work" apply to us? 4. What does the payment of tithing have to do with the fact that we are on the Lord's errand? 5. What does "the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind" have to do with the meaning of "Ye are on the Lord's errand''? 6. In what ways may one apply in his life the truth that we are on the Lord's errand? 621 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 50 — "Wherefore, If Ye Believe Me, Ye Will Labor While It Is Called Today" (D & C 64:25). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, November 1963 Objective: To demonstrate the fact that belief in the Savior motivates prompt, pro: ductive action. PropLe of action — those who get things done — are invariably individuals who have fixed and settled beliefs. 'These people are dedicated, devoted, determined, because of unwavering convictions of the importance and necessity of that which they are doing. When the Lord said, as recorded in the D & C 64:25, "Wherefore, if ye believe me, ye will labor while it is called today," he was emphasizing two important, closely related facts. First, genuine belief is the motivator of action. Unless we have strong convictions we are likely to postpone actions and not do those things which we should do at the time they should be done. The Savior said, "He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also" (John 14:12). Belief then is the lmportant essential. If we would follow the Lord's counsel we will do all of the things which he has commanded us because believing, we will know that by following his counsel and commandments we can find joy and happiness in this life. The second fact emphasized in this scripture ls that if we truly believe the Lord we will labor (act) today — not in some indefinite future. 622 One of the most important things to remember about action is that it is "no action" until it is taken — until something is done. In other words postponed, procrastinated, and just dreamed-about action, is no action. The trouble with postponing until tomorrow the things we should do today, is that tomorrow may be too late. In fact, tomorrow really never comes. Life is made up of a succession of todays. Someone has said, "Every day ls a new life to a wise man." Thomas Carlyle expressed the thought this way when he said, "Our main business is not to see what lies dimly at 4 distance, but to do what lies clear: ly at hand." The importance of laboring today is expressed beautifully by the Indian dramatist Kalidasa, Look to this day For it is life, the very life of life. In its brief course Lie all the verities and realities of your existence; Yesterday is but a dream And tomorrow is only a vision, But today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness And every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to this day! The ancient psalmist also advises us, "This is the day which the Lord hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it" (Psalms 118:24). Our application of these thoughts consists in strengthening our beliefs so that they become real motivators of action. Let us ask ourselves, do we really have faith that Jesus is our Lord and Savior? Do we really have faith in his teachings? If we do we will do the things he has told us to do. We will today perform those little acts of neighborly kindnesses which should be done today, but which we so often postpone. We will today overcome those little personal weaknesses and habits which we are always going to overcome but which we never quite seem to accomplish. We will today express gratitude and appreciation for those deeds of kindness and thoughtfulness performed to us and for us by others. In The Book of Mormon, the LESSON DEPARTMENT Prophet Samuel the Lamanite told of the predicament in which the people of his time found themselves because they had procrastinated the day of their salvation until it was everlastingly too late. They had sought happiness too much in worldly material things, and had failed each day, through postponement, to overcome and repent of their weaknesses and imperfections. 'They had failed to perform those acts of kindness which are the essence of the Saviors teachings. Samuel told the people that their days of probation were past and their exaltation lost because of their procrastination. (See Helaman 13.) Surely the counsel given to us in this scripture in The Doctrine and Covenants 64:25 ls both timely and pertinent. Today is the day of our salvation. If we are truly wise we will heed the Lord and believe him, and do the things he instructs us while it is yet today. WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 10: Planning for the Future Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, November 1963 Objective: 'To examine long-time family goals and plan for a training program consistent with them. Dw you ever hear the statement that Mormonism is based on_history? 'This is an observation of an historian from Southeast Asia who started analyzing the gospel plan. "Why, it goes back even before the beginning of the world!" said he, and we could add, "Yes, and it con- 623 AUGUST 1963 tinues on through eternity, and each one of us has a part in the long-time plan." It is well to see our earthly experience in this historic perspective and to be conscious of the fact that our stay here is relatively short but extremely significant. This is the time of testing and training and preparation for greater responsibilities. One way to look at it is to divide the possible life span of 100 years into five periods. It takes at least twenty years to become prepared to assume the responsibilities of parenthood. A second twenty is needed for accumulating — accumulating a family and possessions to enhance family living. Twenty years are then required for launching the offspring and helping them to stand on their own feet. It then takes twenty years for recovery, and another twenty for rediscovery.* It is easier to plan for the future if you see your life in units with definite responsibilities and assignments for each unit. Then it is well to make some predictions. Prayer and _ thoughtful meditation are important in this. Predict your own future, and don't be modest. We are here to get the most from our earthly experience and learn to be of service to others. Don't shortchange yourself. Be in tune for inspiration and make your plan reach the ultimate; then all you have to do is work to bring it about. Of course, you must learn to be flexible so that modifications can be made as unforeseen circum- *Discussion leader might prepare five charts and list some of the major responsibilities for each twenty-year period. 624 stances arise, and you must learn to be patient and remember that it takes a century to raise an oak. Winds and storms and dry seasons will come, but, as the old adage goes, "Good timbers do not grow in ease. The stronger wind, the stronger trees." Now examine your predictions or lifetime goals. As parents are you looking toward baptism and confirmation for each child? Are you planning for auxiliary and Priesthood training? Does your plan include missionary work and temple marriages? What are your educational objectives? What kind of home do you want? What about developing special skills and aptitudes? What special services do you want to render for your fellow men? In what way do you hope to leave the world better than you found it? You may smile at all this planning and say, "Why, if I do all this, I'm writing my own obituary!" And that is exactly mght; you are seeing the end from the beginning and writing your own obituary in everything that you do today and tomorrow and until the years are gone. You ask, "Does each individual make his own plan, or does the family as a whole make the plan?" Both are necessary. The husband and the wife work together in a way that will bring the greatest development for each individual as well as strengthen the bond of togetherness. Children share in planning as they become mature enough to participate, and, eventually, each will be able to help with the family plan and also be able to begin making his own plan. Learning to plan and to carry through the plan is a process of development and requires working together as a team. Anyone can learn to do this. During courtship the process begins by thinking in terms of "our" instead of "my," and gradually the direction for the first twenty years of living and sharing together becomes clear. From then on, following tested rules of "teamship" will facilitate progress. Each family can set up its own rules, but here are some suggestions: 1. No major decision will be made until all the facts are in and examined to see advantages and disadvantages of this action or that. LITERATURE @ LESSON DEPARTMENT 2. Once a decision is made, the team will pull together with all its might to accomplish the objective. 3. When mistakes are made, there is no blaming one or the other, but there is a reappraisal of the whole situation, and a new direction is charted. 4. The role of each team member is determined on the basis of special interests, talents, and abilities as well as upon the needs for certain jobs to be done. Step-by-step training and disciplining to see work plans carried through to completion provide a sound approach to making the plans for the future come true. Note: Refer to "Values Become You," The Improvement Era, April 1963, for other suggestions on training. America's Literature Lesson 42 — Huck Finn's Initiation Into Truth Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and mae Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 617-651) For Third Meeting, November 1963 Objective: To understand and experience Huck's progression from innocence toward moral maturity. Iw 1876, the year The Adventures of Tom Sawyer was published, Mark Twain began writing what he intended to be its sequel. When the book finally appeared eight years later, in 1885, its identity in Twain's eyes had not changed, since the title page read, "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (Tom Sawyer's Comrade)." But within itself the book had changed a great deal. In the first section of the novel, even though Huck is allowed to tell the story in the far more intimate and "real" first person "I," Samuel Langhorne Clemens is definitely the controlling author. It is in the large, rich center section of the book when Huck is entirely free of Tom, the restraints of "civilization," and in- 625 AUGUST 1963 deed the restraints of Mark Twain himself, at least on the surface level, that its sensitive, large and vigorous heart surges and swells the novel into its unquestioned greatness and vitality. Just as did Geppetto's Pinocchio, Huck miraculously turns himself from a rather inconsequential stage prop into a "real live bov." Once Huck found himself created and alive on the page, almost literally he wrenched the pen from Twain's fingers and wrote his own storv himself. Twain never seemed to realize the significance of what had happened. His 1876 burst of initial creative energy took him through chapter XVI; then, after at least three vears' hesitation, during which his deep well of the unconscious flowed full once more, he continued writing; but now Huck himself was fully aware of his own identity, the moral dilemma which faced him, and how he would resolve it. This informed sureness of the great middle section never seemed to impress Twain to any recorded degree, for he felt his greatest work was his documented, wooden Joan of Arc, which he wrote more than ten vears later. The novel Huckleberry Finn is very loosely organized. It consists of a series of episodes or adventures which happen to Huck and Nigger Jim. The two strongest unifying elements are Huckleberry Finn, who tells the story, and the Mississippi River, which symbolizes the peace and freedom which Huck and Nigger Jim seek, at the same time providing the physical means for escaping from one adventure to the next. 626 HUCK'S "AMERICAN LANGUAGE" The major source of this novel's power is its extremely successful "llusion of reality," its ability to make the reader become Huck by absorbing Huck's world through his eyes and ears and, more intimately, through his untrammeled conscience and sense of values. The miracle of Huck's creation is the spontaneous zest for life which Twain has caught through his use of words alone. Huck is so vital, so throbbing with life, that we become him. 'Through the magic pronoun "T"' we are transmitted out of our own present selves and "popped" inside Huck's skin. From inside Huck we hear through his ears, peep out through his eyes, and above all tell ourselves through his mouth. Yet it is not merely the pronoun "Tl" which creates this sense of reality. 'Twain endeavored to make his fiction an exact transcript of life, and it is what and how the "T' speaks that makes the character of Huck so authentic. The following account of a child's loneliness as he fights to maintain his own identity under a deluge of attacks from that incomprehensible world which is dominated by adults, rings as true in its tone as in its revelations of the patterns of Huck's mind. Miss Watson, "a tolerable slim old maid, with goggles on," is attempting to "sivilize" the homeless waif for his own good.... Miss Watson would say, "Don't put your feet up there, Huckleberry"; and "Don't scrunch up like that Huckleberry — set up straight"; and pretty soon she would say, "Don't gap and stretch like that, Huckleberry — why don't you try to behave?"' Then she told me all about the bad place and I said I wished I was there. She got mad then, but I didn't mean no harm. All I wanted was to go somewheres; all I wanted was a change, I warn't particular. She said it was wicked to say what I said; said she wouldn't say it for the whole world; she was going to live so as to go to the good place. Well, I couldn't see no advantage in going where she was going, so I made up 'my mind I wouldn't try for it. Miss Watson she kept pecking at me, and it got tiresome and lonesome. By and by they fetched the niggers in and had prayers, and then everybody was off to bed. I went up to my room with a piece of candle, and put it on the table. Then I set down in a chair by the window and tried to think of something cheerful, but it warn't no use. I felt so lonesome I most wished I was dead. The stars were shining, and the leaves rustled in the woods ever so mournful; and I heard an owl, away off, who-whooing about somebody that was dead, and a whippowill and a dog crying about somebody that was going to die; and the wind was trying to whisper something to me, and I couldn't make out what it was, and so it made the cold shivers run over me (The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, World Publishing Company, 1947, pp. 19-20. Reprinted by permission of Harper and Row, Publishers). This same authentic world-reality pervades Huck's description of his bullying, drunken father, now returned to dominate his "accepted" castoff son, even while revealing his Own sense of inferiority, and the conversation between them. Such words had never before been written down; they were almost too true, too immediately from life ever to be stiffened into "literature"': When I lit my candle and went up to my room that night there sat pap — his own self! He was most fifty, and he looked it. His hair was long and tangled and greasy, and hung down, and you could see his LESSON DEPARTMENT eyes shining through like he was behind vines. It was all black, no gray; so was his long, mixed-up whiskers. There warn't no color in his face, where his face showed; it was white; not like another man's white, but a white to make a body sick, a white to make a body's flesh craw] — a tree-toad white, a fish-belly white. As for his clothes — just rags, that was alr I stood a-looking at him; he set there a-looking at me, with his chair tilted back a little. I set the candle down. I noticed the window was up; so he had clumb in by the shed. He kept a-looking me all over. By and by he says: "Starchy clothes — very. You think you're a good deal of a big-bug, don't you?" "Maybe I am, maybe I ain't," I says. "Don't you give me none o' your lip," says he. '"'You've put on considerable many frills since I been away. I'll take you down a peg before I get done with you. You're educated, too, they say — can read and write. You think you're better'n your father, now, don't you, because he can't? I'll take it out of you. Who told you you might meddle with such hifalut'n foolishness, hey? — who told you you could? ".. You lemme catch you fooling around that school again, you hear? Your mother couldn't read, and she couldn't write, nuther, before she died. None of the family couldn't before they died. I can't; and here you're a-swelling yourself up like this. I ain't the man to stand it — you hear? © Say, lemme hear you read" (Ibid., pp. 40-42). Twain is equally skilled at using the right words and images which enable us to experience the peace and freedom and _ security which Huck and his soulmate, the runaway slave Nigger Jim, find as they hide and sleep by day and float by night down the vast majesty of "Mother Mississippi." Not excluding Thoreau, there exists in the language no lovelier lyric poetry in praise of nature's rewards to those who love her 627 AUGUST 1963 and trust her than that found in Huck's prose sentences of Chapter ny Two or three days and nights went by; I reckon I might say they swum by, they slid along so quiet and smooth and lovely. Not a sound anywhere — perfectly still — just like the whole world was asleep, only sometimes the _ bullfrogs a-cluttering, maybe.... We would take some fish off of the lines and cook up a hot breakfast. And afterwards we would watch the lonesomeness of the river, and kind of lazy along, and by and by lazy off to sleep. Wake up by and by, and look to see what done it, and maybe see a steamboat coughing along up-stream, so far off towards the other side you couldn't tell nothing about her only whether she was a stern-wheel or side-wheel; then for about an hour there wouldn't be nothing to hear nor nothing to see — just solid lonesomeness. Next you'd see a raft sliding by, away off yonder, and maybe a galoot on it chopping... You'd see the ax flash and come down —you don't hear nothing; you see that ax go up again, and by the time it's above the man's head then you hear the k'chunk! — it had took all that time to come over the water. So we would put in the day, lazying around, listening to the stillness.... Sometimes we'd have that whole river all to ourselves for the longest time. Yonder was the banks and the islands, across the water; and maybe a spark — which was a candle in a cabin window; and sometimes on the water you could see a spark or two — on a raft or a scow, you know; and maybe you could hear a fiddle or a song coming over from one of them crafts. It's lovely to live on a raft. We had the sky up there, all speckled with stars, and we used to lay on our backs and look up at them, and discuss about whether they was made or only just happened. Jim he allowed they was made, but I allowed they happened; I judged it would have took too long to make so many. Jim said the moon could 'a' laid them; well, that looked kind of reasonable, so I didn't say nothing against it, because I've seen a frog lay most as many, so of course, it could be done. We used to watch the stars that fell, too, and 628 see them streak down. Jim allowed they'd got spoiled and was hove out of the nest (Ibid., pp. 163-165 passim). THE STORY OF HUCKLEBERRY FINN Towards the end of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer Huckleberry Finn, vagabond son of the village drunkard, and envy of all the village boys because of his unrestrained freedom, is adopted by the Widow Douglas who, with her sister, Miss Watson, intends to give him the "mothering" and civilizing influences he has never had (and never submits to). In the closing chapter of Tom Sawyer, Tom and Huck are given the gold found after the death of Indian Joe. Early in the Adventures of Huckleberry Finn Huck's father returns after another of his lengthy absences, to get the fortune. Unsuccessful, he captures Huck and imprisons him in a lonely cabin along the river. In a drunken seizure he almost succeeds in killing Huck who determines to escape. Stealing a canoe, he sets up camp on isolated Jackson Island, where he finds Nigger Jim, Miss Watson's slave, who has run away in an attempt to find his wife and children who have been taken from him. Reared under the moral code of the South, Huck knows full well he should turn Jim over to the law, since he is stolen property worth $800, but he becomes so attached to him that he decides to go against his social conscience and "go to hell" by helping Jim escape. Two itinerant frauds and fakers, The Duke of Bridgewater and the Dauphin, self-styled heir to the throne of France, come aboard the raft, and by virtue of their feigned royal station, trick Huck and Jim into becoming their servants while they plot new methods of exploiting the trusting gullibility of the inhabitants of the next village. When they learn that a local farmer, Peter Wilks, has died, and that his brother is expected momentarily to claim his fortune, they pretend to be the long-lost brother and his attendant, bilk the innocent daughters of their nghtful inheritance, sell Nigger Jim for cash, and are about ready to escape when Huck exposes them and in shame at the disgraceful levels to which humans will stoop, witnesses their capture by indignant citizens who ride them out of town on a rail. Huck goes to the Phelps farm to help Tom Sawyer "rescue" Nigger Jim, which they manage to accomplish in a most elaborate and extended intrigue, only to discover that Miss Watson freed Nigger Jim in her will just before she died. Realizing that Mrs. Phelps intends now to civilize him, just as the Widow Douglas and Miss Watson had intended before, Huck states his intention of running past the frontier into free territory "because Aunt Sally she's going to adopt me and sivilize me, and I can't stand it. I been there before." HUCK'S EMERGING DEFINITION OF MAN Because Huck had no one to force him to conform to the rules of society and culture, he wore no shoes, attended no school, and spent his days doing what pleased him most. He could thus stand outside society and evaluate it, using as his sole basis for judgment his own common sense and his own spontaneous moral values. 'Though Huck LESSON DEPARTMENT himself runs away from the Widow Douglas to escape from her world of artificiality and the demands of society, he still has to learn from Nigger Jim the human compassion and love which ideally bind human beings together. In an effort to relieve the peaceful monotony of life on the raft, Huck tries to persuade Jim that they have not been separated, when, in actuality, a fog had caused Huck to become lost in the canoe while Jim, bucking rough water, almost went down on the raft, sick with worry that Huck was lost or drowned. When Nigger Jim finally sees that Huck had been teasing him about a matter so grave as his own death, he says to him, ".. When I got all wore out wid work, an wid de callin' for you, en went to sleep, my heart wuz mos' broke bekase you wuz los', en I didn' k'yer no' mo' what become er me en de raf'. En when I wake up en fine you back ag'in, all safe en soun', de tears come, en I could' a' got down on my knees en kiss yo' foot, 's so thankful. En all you wuz thinkin' 'bout wuz how you could make a fool uv ole Jim wid a lie. Dat truck dah is trash; en trash is what people is dat puts dirt on de head er dey fren's en makes 'em ashamed." Then he got up slow and walked to the wigwam, and went in there without saying anything but that. But that was enough. It made me feel so mean I could almost kissed his foot to get him to take it back. It was fifteen minutes before I could work myself up to go and humble myself to a nigger; but I done it, and I warn't ever sorry for it afterward, neither. I didn't do him no more mean tricks, and I wouldn't done that one if I'd 'a' knowed it would make him feel that way (Ibid., page 126). Thus Huck is shamed out of his own falseness in his relations with 629 AUGUST 1963 Jim and never again betrays the mutual trust which the two share henceforth. More fully than ever before, Huck now knows how precious a virtue is moral honesty. Having survived his own moment of weakness, he is ready to endure witnessing various examples of man's cruelty and harshness to his own kind. For the first time seeing such human weaknesses ___ realistically, Huck sees fraud and murder and cowardice for the evils they are. At the same time he feels toward the perpetrators a pity and compassion which better enable him to understand human flaws without denying them, while passionately wishing such human hardness and suffering could never again exist. One of the episodes in the story tells of Huck's being taken in to live by the feuding Grangerford family. Fear, suspicion, and force dominate his entrance into the Grangerford home. Cast ashore after the raft has been wrecked, Huck approaches the door of the darkened house only to be surrounded by howling dogs. After he is questioned from within by someone who does not show his face at the opened window, the voice continues:. "What did you say your name was?" "George Jackson, sir. I'm only a boy." "Look here, if you're telling the truth you needn't be afraid — nobody'll hurt you. But don't try to budge; stand right where you are. Rouse out Bob and Tom, some of you, and fetch the guns.... "Snatch that light away, Betsy, you old fool — ain't you got any sense. Put it on the floor behind the front door. Bob, if you and Tom are ready, take your places." 630 "All ready." "... Now, all ready. George Jackson. And mind, don't you hurry — come mighty slow. If there's anybody with you, let him keep back — if he shows himself he'll be shot. Come along now. Come slow; push the door open yourself — just enough to squeeze in, d'you hear?" I didn't hurry; I couldn't if I'd wanted to. I took one slow step at a time and there warn't a sound, only I thought I could hear my heart. The dogs were as still as the humans.... When I got to the three log doorsteps I heard them unlocking and unbarring and unbolting. I put my hand on the door and pushed it a little and a little more till somebody said, "There, that's enough — put your head in.'' I done it, but I judged they would take it off. The candle was on the floor, and there they all was, looking at me, and me at them, for about a quarter of a minute: Three big men with guns pointed at me, which made me wince, I tell you... (Ibid., page 139). Step forward, In such scenes as the above we have really been there, thanks to Twain's narrative skills. With him we suffer in apprehension; our hearts thump with his as these mysterious humans terrorize him. But when they see he is only a boy with no malice in his heart toward them, they instantly change into gentle, solicitous friends, capable of love and warmth both to each other as to strangers in need. In the romantic Victorian age, when Tennyson's "Idylls of the King" symbolized the vast popularity of the idealized past, realist Twain was ever the militant foe of paying undeserved homage to royalty as such, be it present or past. He attacks royalty by introducing the Duke of Bridgewater and the Dau- phin (referred to above). With increasing awe and contempt for such unashamed skulduggery as the two exhibit, Huck watches the operations of his guests as they violate poor, untutored, untamed Huck's high regard for public decency, religion, and the worth of human dignity. 'Their supreme act of exploitation comes to a. Climax just before the funeral, as they pose as heirs to the $6,000 left by Peter Wilks. In a moment of sheer intuition the paii decide to give the money to the three daughters, correctly guessing that, in return for such "trust" they will return it to the uncles for them to invest. When we got upstairs everybody gethered around the table, and the king he counted it and stacked it up, three hundred dollars in a pile — twenty elegant little piles. Everybody looked hungry at it, and licked their chops. Then they raked it into the bag again, and I see the king begin to swell himself up for another speech. He says: "Friends all, my poor brother that lays yonder has done generous by them that's left behind in the vale of sorrers. He has done generous by these yer poor little lambs that he loved and sheltered, and that's left fatherless and motherless. Yes, and we that knowed him knows that he would 'a' done more generous by 'em if he hadn't ben afeard o' woundin' his dear William and me. Now, wouldn't he?... Well, then, what kind o' brothers would it be that'd stand in his way at sech a time? And what kind o' uncles would it be that'd rob — yes, rob — sech poor sweet lambs as these 'at he loved so at sech a time? If I know William — and I think I do — he — well, I'll jest ask him." He turns around and begins to make a lot of signs to the duke with his hands, and the duke he looks at him stupid and leather-headed awhile; then all of a sudden he seems to catch his meaning, and jumps for the king, goo-gooing with all his might for joy, and hugs him LESSON DEPARTMENT about fifteen times before he lets up. Then the king says, "I knowed it; I reckon that'll convince anybody the way he feels about it. Here Mary Jane, Susan, Joanner, take the money — take it all. It's the gift of him that lays yonder, cold but joyful." Mary Jane she went for him, Susan and the hare-lip went for the duke, and then such another hugging and kissing I never see yet. And everybody crowded up with the tears in their eyes, and most shook the hands off of them frauds, saying all the time: "You dear good souls! — how lovely! — how could you!" (Ibid., pp. 222-223). Rarely have hypocrisy and greed for gain been satirized more effectively. Huck's attitude toward humankind very neatly approximates that of Twain: tenderly he loves the human good which he sees and does, but bitterly he abhors man's inhumanity to man. And once having assessed these most questionable "blessings" of civilization, it is not surprising that wiser, enlightened Huck finally returns to the peace and security of his original self — to a distant land so far away both in place and in time that it exists most really in the spirit and art of Mark Twain, one of our central probers into the morals and hopes and fears of his countrymen. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How can language as ungrammatical and crude as Huck's ever be classed as great literature? 2. Many critics feel that, while Tom Sawyer is a child's book, Huckleberry Finn is for adults. Do you agree or disagree? Why so? 3. Do you feel that Huck turned to nature for truth or for escape? 4. Discuss Huckleberry Finn as a moral book. 5- Can a great writer ever be unaware of what he is doing, or of what he does best? 631 SOCIAL SCIENCE ¢@ Divine Law and Church Government Lesson 9 — The Organization of the Church, Its Purpose and Principles Elder Ariel S. Ballit For Fourth Meeting, November 1963 Objective: To emphasize the divinity of the organization of the Church and the obligation this places on the membership of the Church. And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand for ever (Dan. 2:44). And the kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heaven, shall be given to the people of the saints of the most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey him (Dan. 7:27). For in mine own due time will I come upon the earth in judgment, and my people shall be redeemed and shall reign with me on earth (D & C 43:29). 1. The Prophet Instructed. In the first vision of the Prophet Joseph Smith, he was instructed by the Son, in the presence of the Father, that no church then existent upon the earth had divine approval. My object in going to inquire of the Lord was to know which of all the sects was right, that I might know which to jon.... I asked the Personages who stood above me in the light, which of all the sects was right — and which I should join. I was answered that I must join none of them, for they were all wrong (Smiru, Josepus P of G P 2:18-19). 2. "Ask and Ye Shall Receive." From the experiences of the Prophet Joseph Smith we are aware that 632 revelation came to him as a result of his petition. As the problems of organization, administration, or development of the Church arose that he could not solve, the Prophet presented them to the courts on high and received the enlightenment necessary for the progress of the Church and the welfare of mankind. This method insured the restoration of the kingdom no faster than the leaders were able to understand and apply the instruction. After the first vision there followed years of inquiry and answers. Heavenly beings were the informers, and Joseph received enlightenment and maturity in Church doctrine and organization. As has been pointed out in Lesson 1, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery prayed for instruction upon the subject of baptism. The result of this inquiry was the restoration of the Priesthood. The Priesthood had to be restored before the Church could be organized. Through a revelation in 1830 we are informed that the Prophet was instructed to organize the Church. The rise of the Church of Christ in these last days, being one thousand eight hundred and thirty years since the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in the flesh, it being regularly organized and established agreeable to the laws of our country, by the will and commandments of God, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month which is called April — Which commandments were given to Joseph Smith, Jun., who was called of God, and ordained an apostle of Jesus Christ, to be the first elder of this church; And to Oliver Cowdery, who was also called of God, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to be the second elder of this church, and ordained under his hand (D & C 20:1-3). Thus, in restoring the Priesthood, the Lord gave Joseph and Oliver, the first and second elders of the Church, the authority by which his Church could be organized and, as we have seen, instructed them to organize the Church. Later he confirmed the name of the Church in revelation, "For thus shall my church be called in the last days, even The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints" (D & C 115:4; see also A Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 392-393). The Priesthood Functions Again. Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, the first two apostles of this dispensation, were so ordained in 1829 by Peter, James, and John. (See D & C 18:9; 20:2-3; 27:12.) In June of the same year (1829) authorization was given to select the first Quorum of Twelve. (D & C 18:26-27.) Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer were appointed to "search out the twelve" (lIbid., 18:37). A At the beginning of this dispensation, the Church was organized with LESSON DEPARTMENT a first and second elder. On the day of organization others were ordained to different offices in the Priesthood. The Presidency was. Established in 1833, and the twelve apostles selected in 1835. From then until now, under the basic principle of continual revelation, the structure of Church government has continued to develop to meet the needs of an expanding membership and the establishment of the kingdom of God upon the earth. Sometimes the question is asked, "What is the need of Church organization?" Dr. John A. Widtsoe in his book, Rational Theology, fourth edition, page 80, says: The Church, the community of persons with the same intelligent faith and desire and practice, is the organized agency through which God deals with his children and presents his will. Moreover, the authority to act for God must be vested on earth in some one organization and not independently in every man, Weare reminded in modern scripture that, Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion. Will I accept of an offering.. That is not made in my name? Or will I receive at your hands that which I have not appointed? And will I appoint unto you, saith the Lord, except it be by law..? (D & C 132:8-11). The mission of the Church is to establish peace, insure progress, and coordinate the action of those holding the Priesthood toward the. Welfare and perfection of mankind. It is through the structure and organization of Church government that the plan of salvation will be 633 AUGUST 1963 accomplished. In the Social Science lessons last year, emphasis was placed on divine law being the counsel, guidance, and encouragement for the perfection of the children of God and thus the accomplishment of the plan of salvation. The plan leads to the exaltation of man through obedience to divine law. It has already been pointed out that the Church is the Priesthood in action and Priesthood ls the authority to act in the name of God. It, the Church, therefore becomes a means of communication between man and God. THE KINGDOM OF GOD In sacred literature, both ancient and modern, there is obviously a related meaning in the concepts of Church and kingdom. The meaning the two terms have in common refers to Christ's reign personally upon the earth. (Tenth Article of Faith.) This will require a kingdom. The Savior was responsible for the restoration of the Church, with full power and authority in the Priesthood leadership, that his kingdom might be prepared for his coming.: The Old Testament heralds the coming of the King of Glory in great power and majesty. The Jews, in accepting this idea, expected military might with which to reestablish their earthly kingdom. During Christ's ministry on earth, he informed his followers that a sign of his second coming would be when "this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come" (Matt. 24:14). Today, in the more common or 634 general usage of the concepts Church and kingdom, reference is made to the followers of Jesus Christ. A more specific meaning and usage of the concept kingdom is in reference to the actual kingdom over which Christ will rule in the last days. In this meaning the concept Church is regarded as an essential part of the kingdom. Christ has delegated his authority to man and commissioned him to set up Christ's kingdom on earth. At the proper time, he will come personally to take the reins of government. 'The Prophet Joseph reminds us, It has been the design of Jehovah, from the commencement of the world, and is His purpose now, to regulate the affairs of the world in His own time, to stand as a head of the universe, and take the reins of government in His own hand. When that is done, judgment will be administered in righteousness; anarchy and confusion will be destroyed, and "nations will learn war no more" (DHC V:63). The Prophet goes on to say that the purpose of divine government ls to "promote peace and happiness among the human family" (Ibid). The benefits of a perfect reign under the Supreme Ruler will be extended to all who live upon the earth, but only those who honor the Priesthood will function in the government of the kingdom. THEOCRACY OR DEMOCRACY IN THE CHURCH The government of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Church being the foundation of the kingdom of God upon this earth, is a theocratic form of government. This means that the operation of the Church is run by God the Eternal Father. Instruction comes down from above. Theocracy does, however, provide an abundance of democratic expression. In the various offices and callings of the Church, ample provision is made for counsel and advice in the operation of each assignment. Discussion is a_ standard procedure in Church administration, and contact with every family is a directive given to each set of officers in the Church. Discussion and contact with members, stimulated by the Spirit of God through the Holy Ghost, provide an ideal situation for the development of consensus, a vital democratic procedure. In the Doctrine and Covenants 20:65 we read, "No person is to be ordained to any office in_ this church, where there is a regularly organized branch of the same, without the vote of that church." This is an important element in the operation of the Church. Any person being sustained. In an office must stand the scrutiny of the body of the saints; such scrutiny should be done in righteousness, without the elements of jealousy, discrimination, or personal animosity. Any member of the congregation may raise his hand for or against the sustaining of any officer. Theocracy Requires Perfection. When the members of the Church and the leadership are living the principles of the gospel and are thus in tune with the Spirit of God, they can then receive divine guidance and the Church of God becomes his kingdom on earth. The function of a theocracy is to provide inspiration and revelation as to the nght way LESSON DEPARTMENT for the saints of God to go in order to realize their full potential. (See D & C 121:34-37.) The purpose of the Church, then, is to prepare the human family for membership 'and participation in the kingdom of God. It is to provide opportunity and direction for the development of the whole individual. 'The real objective is the perfection of man. There is much evidence to support the statement that God's major concern is the perfection of man. In the first place, as intelligence, we existed co-eternally with him. The sacredness of the personality is supported by the fact of the spiritual parenthood of God the Eternal Father. Each person, then, is important to him. 'This makes clear the continual effort put forth by the Creator to bring all his children back to his presence. 'The Prophet Joseph tells us that "the mind or the intelligence which man possesses is co-equal [co-eternal] with God himself" (DHC VI:310). God provided the spiritual body and thus all men became his children, and spiritual brothers and sisters. Earthly parents become co-partners with God*in bringing his spirit children into this world. The Call to Repentance. Whenever the Church of God has been upon the earth its duty has been to inform man of the purposes of life, his relationship to God, and his own potential. The Church has established, through divine law, the step-by-step process of achieving the 635 se a Se eee ee ee ee Se eee es eee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ie THREE PART CHORAL MUSIC FOR SINGING MOTHERS ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen.20 —. COME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen.20 ro GIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR POOR—Berlin _.25 a. GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner _ 30 HEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn |.25 LET NOT YOUR SONG END—Cain.25 a LORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Madsen.20 —— LORD IS MY SHEPHERD—Smart __ - 20 —- LORD'S PRAYER—Robertson...22 Se O LOVE THAT WILT NOT LET ME GO—Schubert.20 en OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert.20 OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah | i | Please send the music indicated { ' i i i above. [] On Approval ([] Charge [] Money Enclosed Name 15 E. Ist South] J Salt Lake City 11, Utah | full realization of man's divine heritage. We are told in the scripture (John 3:16-17) that "God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son" as a sacrifice so that all who believed in him could have everlasting life. 'The mission of Jesus was not to condemn, but to bring salvation to the children of men. The structions to all of the prophets have been to teach people how to gain the most out of life's experience. 'The people have been taught that repentance and baptism are essential and to recognize that the wisdom of God ls a first step to eternal progress and perfection. The Lord has reminded us that "The worth of souls is great in the sight of God" (D & C 18:10). To bring people to an acceptance of the true wav of life will mean great joy with the repentant person in the kingdom of God. Teaching people at home and abroad to accept the pattern of life that will assure them of their greatest accomplishments in life and exaltation in the celestial kingdom, is the perpetual assignment to the membership of the Church. It must be remembered that the children of Latter-day Saint families must be taught the gospel also, and the responsibility of teaching them has been placed squarely on their parents. (See D & C 68:25-28.) Because of the close association with her children, the mother frequently carries the greater share of that joint responsibilitv. But if she and ined husband both understand and honor the Priesthood they will plan together to teach their children to "walk uprightly before the Lord." References Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 18, 20, 27, 43, 115, 121, 132 Pearl of Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith. TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Articles of Faith, Chapter 20. Wiptsor, Joun A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 14-15. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What prompted the boy Joseph Smith to seek the Lord in prayer — religious nature, inspiration, confusion? 2. What is necessary on the part of human beings to receive guidance from God? 3. Where and when was authorization given to organize the Church of Jesus Christ? 4. Why is it necessary to have a definite Church organization? 5- What is the true meaning of the brotherhood of man? Does this meaning apply to all members of the Church? FOLLOW THE SUN and visit THE HOLY LAND including EGYPT LEBANON JORDAN ISRAEL TURKEY GREECE ITALY Personally escorted all expense Tour via Jet leaves October Ist — Special 21 Day Excursion Rates. Extension to see more cities in Europe if desired. Call or Write Murdock Travel Inc. (Bonded) 14 South Main Street 328-3161 "Your Experienced Travel Counselor" Art Exhibit Dorothy J. Roberts So suddenly there I was lonely; So sudden were the tears that burn, Seeing the artist's painted wagon, Her painted wheels that seemed to turn; The dappled team, the hay load swaying, Driver becoming my father there, And all of youth and past returning Back to me from the other-where.... It was so suddenly I saw them, Framed in gold at the gallery, So long after the field was sold, That her brush gave them back to me. 637 Pearle M. Olsen Crimson velvet mountains Brushed with blues in Shadowed indentations; Nature's varied markings — Valley, vale, and crevice. Time for evening meditations. Bergundy the velvet — Indigo the blues, as Color-throwing sunset rays Hurl deepest hues On plushy eastern mountains. Page the artist and the muse! Minutes quietly beget Slumberous peaks in silhouette; Velvet of the darkest jet. Ri] a fl Vesta N. Fairbairn At night Valley cities Are a pirate's treasure cache — Rubies, emeralds, diamonds, And gold. Summer Leora Larsen The sun's a still alarm clock That stirs the trees alive And lights the satin roses And calls bees from the hive. I love cooling shaded dawns When noisy small things sleep; I approach my writing pool Ready to plunge in deep. Hawaiian Tours Throughout Summer Leaving October 14 Dedication of LDS Polynesian Village at Laie Hill Cumorah Tour July-August Europe in August —- Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 SAVE ON STORAGE, SURVIVAL AND CAMPING FOODS NOW SPECIALLY PRICED Processed Potatoes, Flakes or Slices, Beef Gravy CAMPING FOODS FOR SCOUTS AND EXPLORERS Many new items, specially priced for real summer savings. Send for our complete list of specials and information about our economical Family Food Storage Plan and FREE PermaPak catalog. For prices and shipping information write PERMA-PAK 40 E. Robert Ave., Salt Lake City 15, Utah. 638 SFSSHSCSHSSOESSESOSSSHSSOSSSSeSeSeeese SAFE and never missed paying a Savings dividend in 80 years Safe... Because your savings at Zions Savings are backed by one of the highest ratios of reserves to deposits of all savings associations in Utah. Insured, too, by the Federal Savings & Loan Insurance Corp. And never in its 80- year history has Zions Savings failed to pay each savings depositor twice-yearly dividends on his savings. Q/ per year ] % current rate compounded 2 semi-annually savings earn full 80th Anniversary — Utah's first savings and loan association ZIONS SAVINGS and Loan Association 33 E. LST SOUTH - SALT LAKE CITY open Fridays 'til 6:30 p. M. 4901 SOUTH STATE - MURRAY open Saturdays 'til noon BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY Leaves August 17 LABOR DAY TOURS Bryce, Zion, Grand Canyon and Glen Canyon Flaming Gorge Dam Area ALASKA TOUR in September HAWAIIAN TOUR in October Aloha Week Dedication of Polynesian Village at Laie ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL-9-8051 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles _.35 1000 to 1400 miles.64 150 to 300 miles.39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 300 to 600 miles.45 Over 1800 miles.87 600 to 1000 miles..54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St. S. L. C. 1, Utah ~ Mia ' L Fn = +4 DPESERET —FREWS PRESS 639 Mrs. ApAHu BissELL HARRISON Springville, Utah Mrs. EstHer MAuGHAN DARLEY Wellsville, Utah Mrs. Livie P. STRACHE Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Harriet ELLEN Forses ADAMS East Layton, Utah Mrs. ANNE KJRISTENE NIELSEN Busk Elsinore, Utah Mrs. JosEPpHINE Mattson WaHLSTROM Los Angeles, California 7 Mrs. Laura ANN Ewe tt DENNIS Myton, Utah Mrs. BarBARA SAVAGE SUDWEEKS Kingston, Utah Mrs. Vircinta TAYLOR OLSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ELLen ME issa RasMUSSEN SLAUGHTER Bakersfield, California Mrs. Martua TieDE TRIENT Fontana, California Mrs. WILHELMINA L. OKERLIND OscARSON Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. Louisa Horer REICHMAN Salt Lake City, Utah Lottie H. Singley It isn't so much what you have done That makes me love you so; Or your good advice that spurred me on, Or the faith you always show. There were others who served me well, Advice was gladly lent. When living life seemed hardest Your listening was intent. PUL | | f 1. WHAT DO | DO NOW? By Barbara T. Jacobs and Dorothy M. Bowen A delightful "how-to" book for teens with questions. Candidly casual, the book includes sound information and solid common sense on the bewildering hows, whys, and wherefores of the teenagers. Chapter titles such as "Etiquette? What's That, Something You Eat?" "'Is Your Only Friend Your Dog?" and "Help!" indicate what this fun-filled volume contains. $3.50 oo an crores NN 2. THE CHALLENGE OF THE SCROLLS — HOW OLD IS CHRIST'S GOSPEL? By O. Preston Robinson Absorbing reading by the general manager of the Deseret aa i: 2 4 = ES xy 2. News. Here the Dead Sea Scrolls are examined. In light of the restored gospel and the gospel as it existed in Christ's time. This is a scholarly work that every Latterday Saint will want to read. $1.95 SSS SSSS— ———=>= Deseret Book COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY Order by 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN mail Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah I would like to receive book(s) number for which I enclose (check, cash, money order) the full cost $ -.-.0---.! NameCr ° ey City ee. Zone State 0, Residents of Utah add 3% sales tax. Second Class Postage Pa at Salt Lake ( ity, Utahff enjoy those "Golden Veans?"' e lal Life Agent. He can he retirement income that w; merely eCxisting, @ Beneficial Life agent © program, call your local '++ OF write Dept. E 63 
