
50th ANNIVERSARY YEAR ® — Oe SOCUETY MAGA BIN B | '. Goed ', ¢ Ly Z ): ' » ¥ WMBER: D L, Sie: ' 7 Lhe Poplars Lael W. Hill When it came to bounding the site of a pioneer farm, Poplars were best; most quickly upreaching, they towered A: rigging for field larks, a ladder for. The sun's Bright climb of hours, a baffle to thunderstorm. They were the tallest of any tall in this land — Except, perhaps, for the time-thrust hills themselves — They were taller than willows or windmills coaxing deep water To green a reluctant desert. They all but spanned That space between valley floor and the ringing, high Waves of heaven. Shaking their cool heart-leaves, Quickened shining as rain in a region of scant rainfall, They lifted their branches like prayers. When the wind ran by "They bowed like dancers toeing a dusty stage; On breath-held nights they shaped a net for stars. Wherever their roots took hold they stood up, steadfast As temple pillars, to mark a splendid passage. The Cover: J Meeting of The Latter-day Saint pioneers with Jim Bridger, 1847 Sovth Pass, Wyoming, in the background Detail from a mural painted by Lynn Fausett At "This ts the Place' monument, Salt Lake City, Utah. *Courtesy Utah State Parks Commission Frontispiece: § Poplars in-the Valley Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: § Dick Scopes Illustrations: § Mary Scopes TOM As a young mother, the articles, lessons, and stories contained in the Magazine are most helpful to me. I especially enjoyed reading the story "Battalion" (by Hazel K. Todd, May 1963). I look forward to her stories. The poetry and editorials are indeed inspiring and have strengthened my testimony. I thank my mother for encouraging me to subscribe to the Magazine. I certainly wouldn't be without it. —Vonzaa P. Stubbs Kemmerer, Wyoming I sit here amidst stacks of unfinished work, but just can't get at it until I at least look through the new issue of my Relief Society Magazine. I love and appreciate every bit of it. I just read the short article "Too Busy" (by Annella Barnes, May 1963, page 351). With seven children, from ten months to twelve years, I surely knew that what Sister Barnes was saying was all too true. But each article adds its spark of inspiration to my life to encourage me to try harder all the time to live as I should. —Carma Carver Grace, Idaho I am very grateful for our very own Magazine. My husband's work keeps us moving from time to time, and it usually keeps me on my toes hoping my Magazine gets to me on time. The Magazine is an indispensable-part of me. Reading any issue of the Magazine gives me an uplifting feeling, and it is how my problems sprout wings and fly away. —Mollie Dunaway Ewa, Oahu, Hawaii I am grateful to have the Magazine come to our home, after traveling around from New Zealand and finally settling here for at least another two years. The Magazine is like having someone call with a spiritual message, always uplifting. —Margaret Smith St. Jean, Quebec Canada 482 MPO T fr' © As a new convert to the Church, let me tell you of the thrill I experienced when I received my first Relief Society Magazine last month. Suddenly, I really felt a part of this wonderful sisterhood. Having just now received the April Special Short Story issue, I had the same exhilarating feeling. The cover and: the frontispiece and the wonderful poetry are very uplifting to the spirit. —Mrs. Howard L. Myers Pasadena, Texas I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a wonderful Magazine. The missionaries here in Upsala have given me some copies, and I really enjoyed reading them. The short stories are especially delightful. I have found the articles on America's literature very useful and interesting, as I am a student of literary history here at the University of Upsala. So thanks once again for all the help and encouragement I get from: the Magazine. —Kjerstin M. Wallentin Upsala, Sweden A friend started giving me copies of the wonderful Relief Society Magazine and I liked the Magazine so well that I just couldn't wait, and so subscribed for my own. I have been trying to get my mother interested in our Church, and I think through the help of the Magazine and its inspirational contents, I may succeed. I enjoy everything in it, from the recipes to the poetry, but I get the most enjoyment from the stories on the early founders of the Church. —Jackie Kurtz Loton, California The Relief Society Magazine has been a great help to me in my search for truth. I just can't wait for it each month, for it always meets my particular need at the time. I enjoy particularly the theology lessons and the poetry. —Mrs. Violet M. Tate Pennsauken, New Jersey 

The Relief Society Magazine JULY 1963 VOLUME 50 NUMBER 7 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES "And They Shall Also Teach Their Children."" A. Theodore Tuttle He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, Part II — President John Taylor - Preston Nibley FICTION Kiss of the Wind, Chapter 1- Rosa Lee Lloyd Beneath the Purple Mountains - Betty Lou Martin Smith The Brainstorm - Helen S. Phillips GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far Woman's Sphere - Ramona W. Cannon Editorial: Modern Pioneers: Marianne C. Sharp Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities - Hulda Parker Birthday Congratulations FEATURES FOR THE HOME Summer Fancy Stitching for Your Daughters: Shirley Thulin Let-Downs and Hand-Me-DownsJanet W. Breeze Threshing - Adrian Hansen Aunt Martha's Wiggly Cake - Linnie F. Robinson Recipes From Sacramento Stake » Adelle Gorsh Evelyn Davis and Bernice MacLeod Hobbies LESSONS FOR OCTOBER Theology — The Law of Forgiveness - Roy W. Doxey Visiting Teacher Messages — ''Wherefore, I Say Unto You, That Ye Ought to Forgive One Another": Christine H. Robinson Work Meeting — The Family As a Planning Group: Virginia F. Cutler Literature — Mark Twain, a Great American Conscience: Briant S. Jacobs Social Science — Priesthood and Church Government: Ariel S. Ballif POETRY The Poplars — Frontispiece - Lael W. Hill To a Little Girl, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 498; Handcart, by Ida Isaacson, 499; City Pool, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 504; Portals of Summer, by Ida Elaine James, 514; A Grandson Grows in My Garden, by Maude Rubin, 515; Pilgrimage, by Catherine B. Bowles, 557; Poem, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 560. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year: 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

483 "And they ga shall also teach their" Elder A. Theodore Tuttle Of the First Council of Seventy HE cry from the children's bedroom brought both parents to the bedside of their frightened, three-year-old son, awakened by a loud clap of thunder in the storm raging outside. Bending close, the mother whispered, "The wind is only whistling a tune; you can whistle like the wind, if you try." As the parents left the room their little boy was whistling softly, matching the high crescendo of the wind as it whistled through the eaves. As they looked in on each of the other children, straightening them out and covering them up, they mused: "How blessed we are — how fortunate to have these lovely children to love and protect and teach." Then as they prayed once again that night, they asked for wisdom beyond their years or natural ability to help them perform the full responsibility of parenthood. The Lord placed upon the shoulders of parents a major lifetime responsibility when he said, "... And they shall also teach their children...." Modern revelation teaches us that the spirit children 484 that are lent to us constitute our kingdom. There are surprisingly few who realize that their prime responsibility is so to teach their children that the association they now enjoy shall be perpetual in the eternities to come. DECIDE TO BE PARENTS This decision does not refer to the biological function only (though certainly the Lord has been specific enough regarding this function in this age of decision). Rather, this decision to be parents means to put first the obligation to be baby-sitters, trainers, discipliners, supervisors, teachers, — assigners, checker-uppers, planners, story-tellers, exemplars, and, in short, to be common, ordinary, garden variety, old-fashioned, on-the-job, full-time parents. It means that this responsibility as parents comes before social climbing, the newest in gadgets, or conspicuous consumption. It supersedes personal selfishness, propriety, pleasure, even a tidy house. It demands solemn and continual allegiance to a cause greater than self. Fulfillment of this parental duty develops all of the virtues that can be named, and requires the application of all the qualities that make men great. But to participate in the joy of this privilege, as the Lord has intended, requires a conscious decision to accept the responsibilities of this sacred obligation — the most sacred and farreaching obligation assumed by two people. A SOLEMN OBLIGATION Although the family is generally considered to be a free and natural association, it is the Lord's predesigned plan to bring to earth and to educate his spirit children. Hence he has given many general and specific instructions about this relationship: But whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea (Matt. 18:6). And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion... That teach them not... The sin be upon the heads of the parents (D & C 68:25). In the excellent book, Youth and the Church by Elder Harold B. Lee, a warning is sounded to parents — if they will listen. He quotes J. Edgar Hoover, who cites the alarming rise in youth delinquency, then concludes, saying: America's youth, indicted by public opmion as reckless and carefree, is blamed for these misdeeds. The real fault lies elsewhere. Before a youth has broken the law, some adult has committed a more scrious crime. Driven by lust for money and enslaved by pleasure, the adult gen- "AND THEY SHALL ALSO TEACH THEIR CHILDREN" eration forgets that the most solemn obligation any person can assume in the eyes of God and man is to guide and direct a child along proper paths. 'To place anything ahead of that responsibility is akin to criminal negligence. Is it. Any wonder the Lord has given such strict commands respecting this relationship—particularly as it pertains to children? PROBLEM OF TIME Once a father and mother really decide to be parents to their children, they can take the necessary steps to become such. 'The first major issue parents must face, and resolve, is the matter of time. A few excerpts from Dr. G. Homer Durham's excellent article specifically pinpoint this problem for many Latter-day Saint parents. The fundamental issue... Is probably not lack of desire, attitude, instruction, or preachment to parents. 'The issue may be fundamentally an issue of time. 'This is my best observation, offered as a social scientist. 'Too many of us have become "organization men and women." We are ambitious people. We work hard all day. We fill our nights with organizational activities; business; educational; church; civic; plus dinner clubs. The harsh truth is that little or no time is scheduled for the family. The family is supposed to get along with unscheduled time, of which none is usually left! In the rural society most older parents still remember, there was always left-over time. In modern, urban, industrial society, evcry organization tends to become a time-demanding, time-consuming monster. When the job... The service club, the social functions that go with the job, the chamber of commerce, the labor union, the professional association, the educational front, the many-facected religious organizations, all train their demands for the individual's time — there is no time left.... Too few modern urban men have learned to say "no" to demands on 485 JULY 1963 time which must be literally fought for, in which to snatch a few moments to collect, organize, and administer a family. Most families are not administered. They proceed by chance, circumstance, and the grace of organization.... The family is the principal social casualty of the industrial revolution. All that solidly remains is the biological function: a young husband and wife in their years of producing the young. As soon as the young are old enough to become mobile, they go or are whisked away by the modern multi-leviathans of organization. Can the unorganized family compete with the organized organizations and_ survive? Can the family organize itself and function successfully in some time sacred to it? (DurHam, Dr. G. Homer: "Time for the Family," The Improvement Era, March 1960, pp. 206-207). BSERVANT parents recognize the truth of these statements. While some will continue to be satished with "left-over time" to manage their families, others will become aroused; and, fortified by their decision to make their parental role the most important function of their lives, put the family first and revolve other necessary duties and activities around it. Even then, parents who have had experience in rearing families know that compromises will be required; but rather than using "leftover time," the family can pre-empt "prime time" to itself and allocate to the other multitude of activities left-over time. This will require a forthrightness and vigor uncommon to most parents and families, but an action that will deserve and merit the blessing of heaven. YOUTH TALKS TO PARENTS When parents understand the true desires of their children, they will be willing to put this responsi- 486 bility first. If parents need a priority list of things to be done with, for, and to their children, listen to a summary of the opinions of over 42,000 of them. The family needs to become a family again instead of just a group of "... Individuals together." The family needs to do things together. They should play, work, study, go to church, go on outings, have family nights and create a wholesome family life. There needs to be more interest in and love for teenagers from their parents. Parents need to show a _ willingness to "... Talk over the problems of youth." Teenagers want more opportunities to confide in their parents. "We grow up too fast." There are too many privileges for early dating and early use of automobiles. And, further, from the hearts of today's teenagers, comes this plea for help: "Parents need to assume more leadership. Put father back at the head of the family." Parents should set a good example for harmonious family life. There needs to be a better definition of home duties. We want to know what is expected of us. Parents are "... Justified in setting hours for teenagers to return from dates." Teenage marriages are too often the result of youth who are " trying to escape an unhappy home life." They think it is the "... Easy way out." 'They think it will "... Solve their problems." "Early dating and the use of automobiles.. 2" also contribute to early marrlages. These are part of the comments and suggestions taken from the Utah 1960 White House Conference on Children and Youth, a study undertaken to give youth an opportunity to say what they regard as the most important problems they face to- 2 day; and also to suggest solutions to these problems. 'These reports were received from a total of ninety-nine high schools and junior high schools, with 42,014 students taking part in the discussions. Certainly the delineation of these problems, and the suggested solutions, deserve — even demand — the attention of mothers and fathers who have a desire to create an ideal Latter-day Saint family. WHAT CAN PARENTS DO? Reread youth's plea. They are saying, "We want someone to be in charge." They want someone to "assume more leadership." Specifically, they mentioned father — "at the head of the family." Incidentally, it must be kept in mind that neither mother nor the children can put father at the head of the family (if they "put" him there, they could remove him). Father must assume his role as the head of the family — as the Lord intended. A clearer understanding of the Priesthood function of the father is necessary for both father and family in order to clarify his role as the directing head of the home. Wives can encourage and_ sustain their husbands, but they should make certain that they do not try to usurp his proper function. THE FAMILY COUNCIL Little success can be achieved by the family administrator unless the planning of all family activities can be done by the family. For very small children these are "practice sessions'; for teenagers this is, or ought to be, a real experience in Priesthood leadership and democ- "AND THEY SHALL ALSO TEACH THEIR CHILDREN" racy — with the father taking the lead in the family gathering. For the less formal organizer, breakfast, noon, or evening mealtime will serve as a starter toward family council sessions. For the more stalwart, an evening once a week can be prescribed and appointed for all. When the parents sacrifice to be there, give up pleasures, change appointments, etc., all others will see the value and necessity of similar effort. These are the gatherings in which parents have real opportunity to fulfill the suggestions of the youth. It will take more than a few sessions to develop an appropriate set of rules and regulations to govern the family, and longer to teach and implement them. 'These sessions can settle such issues as the use of the family car, the standard of modesty in dress, the 'I'V programs to choose and times set for watching, the hour at which the children will be expected home from various activities — decided jointly by the children and the parents, and the allocation of the necessary family chores. Fortunate indeed is the family whose situation is such that chores must be performed daily; and where they are not, the parents need to define the home duties better. 'The children are saying, "We want to know what is expected of us." 'These sessions can be among the choicest and richest in a family's experience. FOLLOW YOUR HEART There are many fine suggestions now available in the Church periodicals, and other places, on ideas for family experiences and helps in rearing children. No excuse exists 487 JULY 1963 for parents not knowing what to do or how to enjoy and bless their families. 'The good ideas available should be chosen and only those used which are applicable to each different family situation.* Parents. No' doubt have concern wondering just which "expert'' psychologist or which child specialist they should follow. If parents do not have access to some of these sources (or if they get confused reading too much), they can take the advice of an eminently successful teacher: "Just do what your heart tells you. You cannot go wrong rearing your family or trying to provide rich experiences for them, when you really demonstrate that vou love your children." FOLLOW INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN BY THE LORD The Lord has been rather specific in outlining responsibilities of parents; they should read Section 68:25-31 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Note what the Lord said parents are to teach their children to do: 1." to pray " Such a simple thing, but, oh, the power of prayer. Teach how to pray and then strive to match the simple faith that children have. Set the example by having family prayer night and morning — having each child, in turn, offer the prayer for the family. There have been many exhaustive studies made and lucid dissertations written on the subject of how to rear children and maintain happy family relations. Unfortunately, the authors of many of the otherwise excellent suggestions have omitted the one means of contact with their Heavenly Father — the binding influence in family unity — the daily practice of family prayer. It is a purifying and humbling experience to listen to a child pray for God to bless his father and mother with wisdom sufficient to rear the family properly. It knits parents closer to their children when they pray that the children will be obedient and helpful, do well in their school work and in their lives, and when the blessings of heaven are invoked upon the family. And the marvelous thing about prayer is that God hears and answers these sincere prayers. 2. " to walk uprightly." This statement covers a multitude of responsibilities. Fathers need not wonder why their children swear, when they have failed to teach their sons not to swear. One day a neighbor, who caught a small boy stealing tomatoes from his garden, said, "Young man, you are stealing. Now you run home and tell your father you were caught stealing, and tell him to tell you why you shouldn't steal." It is the privilege and obligation of a father to teach his sons not to steal, or lie, or cheat, or in any way be dishonest. It is his duty to teach his sons what honor and chastity and integrity are — as much by ex- *Samples of the many good articles in this area are two articles by Beverly Romney Cutler which appeared in the December 1962 and January 1963 issues of The Improvement Era, and a booklet entitled Creative Family Living, published by Olympus Publishing Company, Salt Lake City, Utah. See also the April 1963 issue of the Era. 488 ample as by precept. Others may supplement these teachings, but the father cannot escape this primary responsibility. 3. "... To observe the Sabbath day." What a challenge to a parent to teach this and then augment the instruction by way of example — and what a joy when he does! 'The dividends on such instructions return many fold, usually soon, but always in future years. 4. "... To understand the doctrine " Parents, generally, have underestimated the abilities of children to understand the doctrine of the Church and, therefore, have delayed too long teaching them the principles of the gospel. 'They should try an experiment of explaining one of the basic principles of the gospel to their children, even the young ones, and see if they cannot grasp it; retell it; and even amplify it, with a simple statement or a question. "REPROVING BETIMES WITH SHARPNESS...." One of the finest statements on the psychology of disciplining children is found in Section 121:43 of the Doctrine and Covenants: Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then Showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy. This one verse includes all that is generally put in a chapter on child training, and, in addition, it directs how to maintain a wholesome relationship thereafter. "AND THEY SHALL ALSO TEACH THEIR CHILDREN" BE A PAL TO YOUR CHILDREN Fathers have an equal responsibility with mothers in the storytelling department. Fathers ought to ponder seriously the question: "When was the last time I told my children a story?" If the family is young, it should not have been very long. Children have claim upon fathers for stories — continued, true, personal, or make-believe. 'This experience can be one of the fondest memories when children grow older and tell "company" about the interesting stories their father used to tell them. A neighbor looked across the fence at a father with his son astride his back and said, "You'll have an aching back tomorrow." The father paused for a breath and _ replied, "Better an aching back tomorrow than an aching heart in the future!" There is no finer, more delightful relationship than a father and his sons as pals. Being pals starts early in life and must be worked at continually — particularly by the father. The rewards are joy and peace in this life, and association together in the life to come. SUMMARY Parenthood is the greatest responsibility laid on two people. 'They must decide to be parents in the fullest meaning of the term, then make time their servant by deliberate management. Help should be sought from the rest of the family and from the many other sources available. Even inexperienced parents cannot go wrong if they will but follow the instructions of the Lord and demonstrate their love for their children. 489 He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith Part I] — Presipenr JOHN 'TAYLOR of the Church, was born in the - J OHN Taylor, the third President town of Milnthorpe, Westmoreland County, England, on November 1, 1808. In 1830, the parents of John Taylor and all the members of the family except John, emigrated to Canada. He followed in 1832 and settled near 'Toronto. Through the teaching of Parley P. Pratt, John Taylor was converted to Mormonism in 1836. In 1837 he visited Kirtland, Ohio, and met the Prophet Joseph Smith, who became: his close personal friend. In December 1835 he was made a member of the Quorum of Twelve Apostles. After the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1844, John 'Taylor followed President Brigham Young and the saints to Salt Lake Valley. There he was very active in all the affairs of the Church; he also filled several foreign missions, and missions in the United States. When President Brigham Young died in August 1877, John Taylor became the President of the Church. He presided ten years until his death in July 1887. 490 Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian President John Taylor On account of his close association with the Prophet Joseph Smith, he frequently referred to the life and activities of the great Prophet. Following are some of his comments: "Joseph Smith, in the first place, was set apart by the Almighty, according to the councils of the Gods in the eternal worlds, to introduce principles of life among the people, of which the Gospel is the grand power and influence, and through which salvation can extend to all peoples, all nations, all kindreds, all tongues, and worlds. It is the principle that brings life and immortality to light, and places us in communication with God. God selected him for that purpose, and he fulfilled his mission and he lived honorably and died honorably. I know of what I speak, for I was very well acquainted with him, and was with him a great deal during his life, and was with him when he died (Journal of Discourses 21:94). "Who was Joseph Smith?... God chose this young man. He was ignorant of letters as the world has it, but the most profoundly learned and intelligent man that I ever met in my life, and I have traveled hundreds of thousands of miles, been on different continents and mingled among all classes and creeds of people, yet I have never met a man so intelligent as he was. Where did he get his intelligence from? Not from books, not from the logic or science or philosophy of the day, but he obtained it through the revelation of God, made known to him through the medium of the everlasting gospel (Ibid., 21:63). "T testify that I was acquainted with Joseph Smith for years; I have traveled with him; I have been with him in private and in public; I have associated with him in councils of all kinds; I have listened hundreds of times to his public teachings, and his advice to his friends and _associates of a more private nature. I have been at his house and seen his deportment in his family. I have seen him arraigned before the tribunals of his country, and have HE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH seen him honorably acquitted and delivered from the pernicious breath of slander, and the machinations and falsehoods of wicked and corrupt men. I was with him living, and when he died, when he was murdered in Carthage jail by a ruthless mob... With their faces painted. I have seen him then under these various circumstances, and I testify before God, angels and men that he was a good, honorable, virtuous man, that his doctrines were good, scriptural and wholesome, that his precepts were such as became a man of God, that his private and public character was unimpeachable, that he lived and died a man of God and a gentleman. This is my testimony (Public Discussion, 1850). "Many a time have I listened to the voice of our beloved prophet, while in council, his eyes sparkling with animation, and his soul fired with the inspiration of the living God. It was a theme that caused the bosoms of all who were privileged to listen, to thnill with delight. Intimately connected with this were themes upon which prophets, patriarchs, priests and kings dwelt with pleasure and delight. My spirit glows with sacred fire while I reflect upon these scenes and I say, O Lord, hasten the day! Let Zion be established! Let the mountain of the Lord's house be established in the tops of the mountains! Let deliverance be proclaimed unto Zion! Let redemption echo from mountain to mountain, from hill to hill, from nation to nation! Let the world hear! Let the law go forth from Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem" (MS., 9:97). 491 KISS of the WIND 1 () Rosa Lee Lloyd CHAPTER 1 the alarm clock broke the lullaby quiet of the early dawn. She did not turn off the alarm. Everyone had better hear it and awaken, she thought, because today was not only Lei Day, a red-letter day in the Hawaiian Islands, but it was a special day for the Harrington family. Emma Lu, their twenty-one-yearold daughter, was coming home [on was fully awake before 492 from San Francisco, where she had been graduated as a nurse. 'They were all going to Honolulu to meet her. Lei Day would make everything even more enchanting, Luana thought, as she swung her feet to the floor and ran to the window. Luana did not look forty-three years old; she was slender, strong, and vital as though charged with the liquid sunshine of the Isle of Maui which had been her home for the last twenty-two years. She loved this pineapple plantation where she lived with her husband, Ben Harrington, their five children, and Ben's elderly mother whom they lovingly called 'Tutuwahine-Tutu (grandmother). Now, as she stood at her bedroom window, her eyes caressed the shimmering blue-green water of the lagoon that swished the shore below their large white frame house. This was her very own glimpse of paradise. She had painted many pictures of this lagoon, but not until this spring had she finished one that she considered good enough to send to the Andrus McDougal Contest for Hawaiian Art. Now it was stored in Tutu's closet, ready for mailing as soon as the contest opened next week. But this was her secret. No one else knew of it except T'utu, who kept her secret as if it were her own. Luana was not a pretty woman, her nose was prominent, her cheekbones too high, her mouth too wide, and her dark eyes fiercely determined. But her skin was velvet smooth, even though bronzed by Hawaiian sun. No woman on the island did more for the sick, the tired, and the heartbroken than Luana Harrington. She was a member of the branch choir, a visiting teacher in her own neighborhood, and she taught a class to junior art students in the Civic Center. Luana's life was a symbol of completeness: husband, children, love, home, Church, and civic activities. What more could any woman in her whole lifetime ask for? Yet dreams and yearning were in her eyes if you looked deeply. But KISS OF THE WIND she was practical as well as artistic, and dreams to her were a springboard to action. She had worked unceasingly to make her dream come true. Now it was ready for the contest when the time came. Quickly she turned from the window and reached in the closet for a muumuu. "Hi, sleepyhead!" she called to her husband, who had not heard the alarm clock. Ben could _ sleep through the loudest clatter. He had learned to do that in the war, he told her. UANA sat on the side of the bed and ruffled her fingers through his dark hair, still thick at the sides, but thinning on top. He was big and homely and terribly exacting at times, but she loved him devotedly. He was worthy of her love and trust. Ben, whose parents had come to Hawai from the Mainland, had been born in this house on the Island of Maui. Luana had met him in San Francisco at a pineapple company convention in 1940. Love had come quickly to them, and love was still with them, deep and warm, after twenty-two years of married life. She loved every moment. Of their tender companionship, their joy in their children, their years of hard work together. Rearing five children on a pineapple plantation, with all the financial hazards that were involved, had not been easy. Ben had enlisted with the Marines after the Pearl Harbor attack, but with Tutu's wisdom and experience and Luana's brave young strength, they had been able to continue to work the plantation. Emma Lu had been born while 493 JULY 1963 Ben was on Guadalcanal. He had not seen her until she was two years old. Now there were five children, Luana thought proudly: Emma Lu, then Philip, eighteen, and ready for college; chubby, good-natured sixteen-year-old Pixie; and their rollicking, red-headed twin boys, Benjy and Bowman, nicknamed Bo. 'Thev would be thirteen next Monday. Emma Lu was first to establish her career as a nurse. They wanted Philip to be a doctor after he fulfilled a mission. They planned that all their sons would go on missions. They had a family bank for this purpose. They called it their "love bank," because it was love for their Church, love for each other, and love for everyone in the world that prompted them to contribute to it. Luana and her family knew the meaning of hard work. From dawn until twilight, and even beyond into the dark, torch-lit might during the harvest time, they labored on the plantation. HE time Luana had given to painting had been moments when others were asleep. She went down to the lagoon alone in the moon-drenched night, or in the pink-blue dawn, when the world around her was so enchantingly beautiful that her heart swelled and sang with joy. Rembrandt, Tutu had often told her, must have dreamed of Hawaiian blue, or he could not have painted such glorious color. Nothing in all the art work she had ever seen could compare with the natural blue of Hawaiian skies and water. Luana felt that she must paint it — she must give it to the world, to all 494 those who were not fortunate enough to visit Hawaii. "Ben — it's time to get up," she said. "This is a big day for us, remember?" He turned over sleepily, stretching his long arms. "A big day," he repeated, a smile parting his lips. "Every day is a big day for us, sweetheart. I wouldn't miss one of them for a million dollars, spot cash." "Speaking of spot cash," Luana said, "we must stop at the bank. The payroll is due next wee Ben sighed. "TI know. There is always the payroll whether the crop is good or not." "But it looks so good this season, darling. I was noticing yesterday how well the cuttings have grown. It must be the extra care Mike Togo has given them." "You mean the extra love," Ben said. "I've never seen a young fellow who loves growing things like Mike Togo. I wish our Philip loved the plantation that way. But his heart is flying up there in the sky with airplanes and _ Larry Brown." Luana nodded. "I know, dear. But he's still a boy. He's entitled to daydream," she defended. "He's eighteen," Ben said, "ready for college in the fall. I would like him to be a doctor. We need more doctors on the islands, Lu. But he won't make up his mind." Luana drew a deep breath. " Maybe he has made up his mind," she said. "He wants to be a pilot. I think he's afraid to tell you." Ben sat upright. His eyes were hurt. "Afraid to tell me!" he repeated. 'What have I ever done to make him afraid to tell me?" Luana touched his cheek. "Darling," she said, gently, "I know how kind you are, how tender and considerate. And the children do, too, really. But sometimes — well — you still act like a Marine sergeant." Ben shook his head. "TI want the best for them," he said. "Maybe I am demanding, but it's because I love them and want them to get some place in life. You have to plan and then work to make your plan come true. I won't let my family waste time. I want them to have a goal." Luana laughed as she put her arms around him, pressing her velvet cheek to his. "Look, Sergeant," she coaxed. She always called him = sergeant when she wanted him to be more lenient. "Let them be children for today. We only go to Honolulu once a year." HE arose from the bed and hurried to the kitchen, a long sunny room with wide windows opening into the lanai. 'Tutu was seated at a little rock work table heaped with pinkish red Roselani flowers. She was busy with a long needle and heavy thread making an especially elaborate lei. "This must be ready to greet my Emma Lu," she said, smiling at Luana who bent to kiss her faded cheek. 'Tutu was frail and old in the morning light, but her eyes were glowing. She had been an English _ teacher out from the States in a Maui high school, before she married Ben's father. She always spoke slowly and precisely. Her voice had KISS OF THE WIND a lullaby softness that everyone loved. "Soon these Roselani flowers, the flower of our island, will be destroyed if we do not get rid of the hostile beetles. Look at the petals I have thrown away, Luana. They were ruined by beetles!" "Bless you, Tutu," Luana said tenderly as she hurriedly set the table. "You always remember what each child loves best. 'The Roselani is Emma Lu's favorite lei. But there will be hundreds of leis of every kind on the streets today. Flowers of every island will be shown and worn. The Lehua from the big island of Hawaii, the Llima from Oahu, and the purple berry called Mokihana from Kauai, and Maui's own flower, the Roselani." Tutu's eyes crinkled at the corners as she looked at Luana. "Don't forget the most common of all, the ginger flower lei. I have made thousands of them. None has a sweeter fragrance. But their color is not as exciting as the red and pink Roselani." "The ginger is generally white, isn't it?" Luana questioned. "T like to call it Sweet Snow," Tutu answered. "That describes it, although some call it Hedychiums. Today, in Honolulu, we will see orchid leis and carnations and the yellow and white Plumeria. Umm! I can almost smell them now. I am so happy to be able to go with you today. The Lord is good to me." She reached for Luana's hand and pulled her gently to her side. "T'oday, I must tell you how grateful I am for you. You have been a perfect daughter to me and a perfect 495 JULY 1963 wife for my son. I am nearing my sunset time, Luana." "Nonsense!" Luana tried to smile as she always did when Tutu spoke of her sunset time. She could not bear to part with her, even though Dr. Hartford had warned them that her heart was very old and very, very tired. "I am no angel, Tutu," she went on gaily. "I have been impatient at times. Stubborn, too. And my temper!" Tutu shook her head, smiling her wise little smile. EN loomed in the doorway, his new aloha shirt open at the throat. Luana looked at him with pride. Ben was one of the tallest men on the island, and even though he seemed stern with the children at times, he was, at heart, the kindest man she had _ ever known. He was even helpful to stranded visitors. She always smiled when she used the word visitors, instead of tourists, but that was customary in Hawaii. Folks thought it sounded more friendly. Soon the kitchen was a beehive of activity. Each child had his appointed chore to do. After the blessing, Ben helped. Luana serve breakfast: guava nectar, scrambled eggs, oatmeal, milk, and bananas. Only Bo, contrary as usual, coaxed for papaya instead of guava nectar. "Why don't you like lilikoi juice, Bo?" Luana demanded. "It is the choicest juice of the island. 'That's why we call it nectar." "Not for me, Mama. I like papaya better," he said decidedly. Luana shook her head. Bo was 496 like that in every way. He had a mind of his own. Benjy had always had to give in to him, she thought, looking fondly at her redhaired twin boys. Her babies were growing up. She and Ben had such great plans for them all. It would take extra money to do all they planned. 'That was one reason she was so eager about the art contest. The prize was ten thousand dollars. "Look, Mama," Bo was. Saying over a mouthful of toast, "Benjy wants us to show you our surprise for Emma Lu." Surprises were a tradition in the Harrington family. Any event was an excuse for a surprise. But Luana wasn't prepared for Benjy's and Bo's surprise. "Oh, no!" she gasped, staring at the monkey in Benjy's arms. "Where did you get that?" "From Hiro Kurata. You remember Hiro, Mama. He's our Japanese friend who lives over near the sugar mill. You let Bo and me go there for sukiyaki dinner." Luana nodded. "Yes, I do re member. I like Hiro. We must invite him over when we have our Utah pork chops and milk gravy dinner. Or maybe he'd like our Alabama hot cakes, with real maple syrup from New England." "Let's settle for San Francisco chop suey," Phil laughed. "You make that real swell, Mom, even though the Chinese never heard of the way they make it on the Mainland." "Well now," Luana laughed. "We'll think of one of our Mainland dinners and give him a treat. Do his parents know he gave the monkey to you for Emma Lu? "Oh, yes!" Benjy said. "Their uncle sent it from Tahiti. They said we were welcome." "Tl bet they did," Phil said, grimly. "Emma Lu will love to own a monkey," Ben said, his mouth quirking. "Just what she's always wanted," Pixie murmured, sipping her juice. Luana noticed that Pixie was trying hard not to eat fattening foods, but it was a constant battle with a healthy appetite. She had courage and determination and weighed herself every day. She's really cute anyway, Luana thought tenderly, even if she is chubby. Her little upsy nose makes her look like a pixie. It was a blessing that she didn't seem to mind that she was not as pretty as the other girls at school. Hit took an extra banana and ate it hurriedly. "Let's get going," he said. "We want to get there to watch the ship pass Diamond Head. Boy, do I have a surprise for my big sister!" "Tell us!" Bo demanded. "We told you." Phil put his hand up. "Don't ask me," he said. "This is_personal." "She'll have a surprise for us, I'll bet," Benjy said in his honest way. "I wonder what she'll have for us?" Luana shook her head, reprovingly. "Benjy, you should think how you can please her, not about what she will bring for you." Benjy's. Wistful face was puzzled. "IT know I should, Mama. I try to think of doing things for other peoKISS OF THE WIND ple all the time, but sometimes — I just think of me!" Bo's lips turned down, scornfully. "What a dope!" he said. "Always has to tell on himself. Never can just think anything. Always says it right out loud. Like in school yesterday when the teacher asked who drew that crazy mean picture of Drucie Hayward on the blackboard, Benjy has to say he didn't draw it, but it did look like Drucie's goon face." "For goodness sake!" Luana said. "That was thoughtless of you, Benjy. Try to be more careful next tame." She looked sharply at Bo. "Who did draw that picture?" she questioned, remembering that Bo had quite a talent for drawing pictures that resembled people he knew. Bo's face pinked up over his freckles. He stuffed a banana in his mouth. Everyone was looking at him. Ben leaned back, folding his arms across his chest which meant he would take over the situation. "Bowman," he said, in a deadly calm voice, "answer your mother. She asked if you knew who drew the mean picture of Drucie Hayward?" Bo swallowed hard. His eyes were fiercely stubborn. "Why do I have to tell?" he demanded. "Just because Benjy tells everything, do I have to tell all my business? Miss Carson doesn't know who drew it — she couldn't find out. I wouldn't answer when she kept asking. I let her stand there and wonder if it was Charlie Lyman because he can draw so well. I don't like Charlie!" There was a breathless silence. 497 JULY 1963 Luana bit her lip. This was not merely a childish prank. 'This was a question of honor. How could her son let another boy take the blame for what he had done! And he acted as though he had been very clever. This must be corrected at once. But why did it have to happen today? She asked herself brokenly. Age looked at Ben as he stood up. His jaw was a firm hard line. "Let's go to your room, Bowman," he said. "We must talk this over." "We will wait for you," Luana said as they left the room. She was grateful that Ben thought each child should be allowed to keep his dignity by being scolded alone. He did not belittle any of the children before the others. She had never interfered with his discipline because he was always fair and reasonable, but unyielding in his decision. "Mama..." Benjy called to her. "Oh, Mama." His wide blue eyes were full of tears. "Finish your breakfast," she said, softly, her throat pinching in. She knew that each of them was sick with dread that Bo would be left behind on this day of days. (To be continued) To a Little Girl 498 Dorothy J. Roberts Once I thought a dark-eyed child The dearest in the world, But now I have an added boon Around that small child curled: For I see more than the camera, Which catches your tilted eye, Dimples at mouth corners where A smile is passing by. I cannot see you as you were — That princess in your face, The dainty childhood fingers, for A girl stands in their place — A little girl with brand new teeth, A shining golden braid — The reaching outward of a grace, A lady being made. Handcart Ida Isaacson Tenderly she whispered, "Let us go on. There is nothing behind us but heartache Nothing but sad flowers — summer is gone. We have in the handcart all we can take. And all the things we left behind are ours To leave — the fire in the open grate, The sun's great glint on the temple towers. Love, the shadow falls, the hour is late. What fire glows in a new tomorrow Warm enough to blot out despair and pain? Dear love, from what sunset may we borrow Gold to sculpture our heartaches in the rain? Listen to our footfalls in the first snow, The turn of the wheels as onward we go." 499 Beneath, Betty Lou Martin Smith HE train sped on its way, closing in the miles between Teresa and her daughter Rosemary. It had been almost a year since they had been together, and Teresa was very excited to see her two little grandchildren once again. Teresa watched enchanted as the train took her farther and farther away from the most densely populated part of the State into the rural area. Although she had _ never really cared for country life, she found the scenery around her very beautiful. Spring had almost artived now, and it was in evidence at every turn. 'The rich, deep brown of the earth showed sprinklings of green, and the trees boasted tiny little buds making their debut into the world. This is the time to get a fresh start on things, Teresa thought, more so than at any other time. 500 y re PN eR' | Bi rv, ms ' J ' * '. Cir a =. A 4 " L i. ' ', " ' a B® é Spring makes me feel so clean and good all over. When Rosemary had married ten years ago, Teresa had found it difficult to see why she would want to move away from her social life in the city to the country. She still couldn't understand her daughter's happiness in such a place. However, Teresa's husband had stated, "Happiness isn't being in a certain place; it comes from within one's own self. If Rosemary is willing, she can be happy any place." Teresa adjusted the collar on her coat. She was smartly dressed in a black and white checked coat. Her accessories of black complemented her as well as the coat. Her lovely, white-gray hair went well with black, and her soft, almost unlined face and blue eyes finished the picture of a very fashionably dressed lady. The conductor called out loudly, — "Cedar View," and Teresa's heart skipped a beat. She had arrived! In happy anticipation, she made her way toward the front of the car. 'The train was on time, Rosemary should be waiting. "There's Grandma! There's Grandma!" Rosemary's eight-yearold son Donnie called out happily as he ran to meet 'Teresa. "T see her, too." Cindy jumped up and down. The six-year-old also made her way toward her grandmother. "Mother, it is so good to see you." Rosemary put her arms around her mother. "Carl said to tell you that he wished he could come to meet you, too, but they are so busy in the fields that they don't stop for anything." "What, work on Saturday? In the city most people have Saturday off." 'Teresa wished she hadn't spoken so abruptly, but it was too late. She could detect a slight tenseness about Rosemary. "The car is this way, Mother." Rosemary led the way. NCE inside the car 'Teresa attempted to make conversation. "Yon're looking very well, dear. IT think this country air agrees with you." "Despite all my hard work, Mother," Rosemary laughed, "I have never felt better." Although Rosemary had her father's light, blonde coloring, she resembled her mother strongly. The car turned off the main highway and down a graveled lane for about five miles. The smell of the fresh earth was evident everywhere, and the sunshine poured into the BENEATH THE PURPLE MOUNTAINS car. Teresa unbuttoned her coat and sat back in the car seat, perfectly relaxed. Rosemary's and Carl's home was a large, white frame house with green shutters. 'There was a white picket fence around the yard, and it was apparent that Rosemary and Carl took great pride in keeping their place looking neat. "Here we are, Mother."" Rosemary pulled into the driveway by the side of the house. "Notice that we have repainted the house since you were here last?" "It looks very nice, dear." 'Teresa appraised the house. "T know that it isn't as elaborate as yours in the city, but we really do enjoy it here," Rosemary commented. "Tm mary." "Donnie, catch the dog so that he won't jump on Grandma. You know that she doesn't like him around her," Rosemary called after her son. "Here, Scampie," Donnie called out. "You had better stay by us." Rosemary smiled. "Don't mind the children, Mother. It is just that they can't understand why anyone in the whole world would not want their wonderful Scampie to jump on them. He has become a member of the family." "Well, you can have him as a member of the family if you want to, my dear, but I would just as soon that he stay right away from me." Teresa shuddered at the thought of the dog getting close to her. The furniture in the house was not new, but it showed careful polglad that you do, Rose- 501 JULY 1963 ishing and care. The rooms fairly glistened, and Teresa had to admit that there was a certain distinction about the place that some of the most elaborate homes lacked. It is really rather quaint, 'Teresa mused to herself. '¢Tr is good to see you again, Mother," Carl said, as he entered the kitchen and put his arm on Teresa's shoulder. "We are all so pleased that you decided to come and visit us." "My goodness, Carl, does Rosemary let you in the house with mud on you?" Teresa knew at once that she had spoken out of turn again. Carl dropped his arm from Teresa's shoulder, walked over to the sink and got himself a glass of water. "I'm very careful not to get anything dirty," Carl responded. "Rosemary is a very tidy person, like you." "What are you two talking about in here?" Rosemary walked into the kitchen. "Nothing, really, just chatting." Teresa turned her gaze away from Carl's own. The rest of the day was spent leisurely. Rosemary prepared a delicious lunch, and later took 'Teresa for a ride through the valley, showing her their land. Rosemary spoke of it so proudly that Teresa was amazed. That night after dinner, Rosemary and Teresa did the dishes. It seemed so good to be with her daughter again that 'Teresa could not hide her pleasure. "T wish that you lived closer to us, Rosemary. We don't get together nearly often enough. It would be 502 wonderful if you would move back to the city. Wouldn't Carl enjoy working there now that he has seen what hard work farming ls?" "No, Mother, Carl has always wanted a farm, and we are all perfectly happy here. The children love it as much as we do. Speaking for myself, I don't have any desire to move back to the city. Some people prefer to live in the city and some in the country. I just happen to be content in the country." Rosemary wiped off the cupboard and started putting the dishes away. Teresa had hoped that in some way she could convince the children that they should move back to the city. Even though she had tried in vain before, she just could not give up. Now, she knew by the tone of Rosemary's voice that she had closed the matter, and that it should not be brought up again. Later, Teresa sat down in front of the kitchen table and waited for her daughter to finish tidying up. "Rosemary, why don't you get Carl to put in a double sink. It would be much more convenient for you, you know." "We can't afford it right now, Mother. Eventually we want to remodel the kitchen, but we. Can wait," Rosemary said. "Let's go into the living room. Sit here, Mother. I think that you'll find this chair more comfortable." Carl sat on the couch by Rosemary, and Teresa noticed how he had matured in the past ten years. He had always been good looking, with his light brown, curly hair and kind gray eyes, but now he had a mature appearance that he had lacked. Before. HE week end passed by pleasantly with the Sabbath | spent mostly in church. Teresa had slept better than she had done for weeks. She even found herself falling asleep in Carl's easy chair when he was outside. Monday proved to be a very busy day, with washing, cooking a big meal for the men who had come to help Carl, and, later, baking bread. Teresa tried to help, but she gave out before the day was even half over. She was appalled at how hard her daughter worked. When Rosemary took a moment to sit down, Teresa couldn't keep quiet. "I think that it is terrible the way that Carl lets you work. I have never seen anyone work so hard." "Now, Mother, I don't work any harder than the other people around here. Have you ever noticed how hard Carl works? He is up at dawn every day, and he never stops, only to eat, until it is dark at night. I enjoy working hard. It gives me a purpose in life. I feel that I am accomplishing something." "Well, I can think of much better ways to accomplish things." Teresa's voice held an antagonistic ring. Before they retired that night, Rosemary said, "It is our Relief Society work meeting tomorrow, Mother. It starts early, and we have our lunch there. Would you care to go?" "I don't know, Rosemary," Teresa hesitated. She could not see that She had anything in common with the ladies in the country, and she was beginning to believe that she did not have anything in common BENEATH THE PURPLE MOUNTAINS with her own daughter any more. "IT am in charge of the lunch, Mother, or I would stay home and visit with you. I think that you would enjoy it." "Well, all right, dear. I might just as well go. I don't have anything else to do, with the children in school." The next morning Rosemary prepared the food for the noonday meal for Carl and his men, and before Teresa could believe it, things were in order, and they were on their way to the meetinghouse. "No wonder you keep thin, Rosemary. I get tired just watching you." 'Teresa was grateful for Rosemary's vitality. HE meetinghouse proved to be very well kept, also. It was difficult for Teresa to explain it to herself, but it felt comfortable and friendly. The women were very friendly, not at all as Teresa had pictured them. She had imagined they would look older, tired, somewhat disheveled. As it turned out, they were attractively dressed in bright, cotton frocks. 'They were healthy and vital looking. "Are you having a good time, Mother?" Rosemary stopped for a moment to talk to Teresa. "Yes, yes, I am, Rosemary." Teresa was surprised to realize that she was actually enjoying herself. Once back at the farm, Teresa went out into the kitchen to help Rosemary with dinner. "You know, dear, I don't think that I want to leave." Rosemary looked up from where she was peeling potatoes. 'Teresa's 503 JULY 1963 words had obviously startled her. "What did you say, Mother?" Teresa smiled. "I didn't mean to surprise you so, dear, but I think that at last I am beginning to understand your way of life." She put her arm about her daughter's waist. "Tt is a good, rich life for you, Carl, and the children, Rosemary. It is truly a life full of purpose. I am just happy that you didn't listen to me. I am also happy that you and Carl have given yourselves so much to work for. I am very glad that you are out here in the country." "Do you really mean_ that?" Rosemary was amazed. "What changed you, Mother? I don't understand." "T don't really know myself, Rosemary. I suppose that it was seeing those women today. They all had that same happy look that you have. Their lives seem so full of planning and keeping busy that they do not have the time to worry about the things that they don't have. I am speaking of material things, of course." "That's true. The desire for elaborate things seems to leave you. You don't have the time to think about them." Rosemary was thoughtful now. "There is something else, too, about this part of the country, Rosemary,' 'Teresa added in _afterthought. "What is that?" "T have never slept better in my life." 'Teresa smiled. Rosemary laughed sweetly. "You, too. The same thing happened to me when I came here." Together, Rosemary and Teresa walked out to the back yard to watch the children play. 'Teresa had meant what she said. She dreaded leaving the farm nestled beneath the purple mountains and the grandeur of the restful spring days. She would even miss Scampie. She had grown so used to his sleeping by her feet as she rested in Carl's easy chair. City Pool Eva Willes Wangsgaard The rain ceased falling, and while walking I came upon a lonely pool Imprisoned in a stony hollow — The pavement warm, the water cool. A boy swung happy toes across it And later robins came to sport, But there was only sky above it, No leafy branch of any sort. Never to climb a birch tree fountain, Never to be one with grass or clover; Only the sun's hot rays as outlet, Then make the long, slow journey over! 504 ME: OLGA PEARSON ENGDAHL, of Omaha, Nebraska, was selected as American Mother of the Year from among fifty successful State candidates, in New York City in May. A queenly woman, she has given countless days of service as a volunteer hospital worker and in other humanitarian efforts, in addition to being the successful mother of six sons and one daughter. RS ORA NELSON ANDERSON, Brigham city, Utah's Mother of the Year, was one of five mothers to receive a special citation. Hers was for "extraordinary skills in the art of homemaking." She has _ wallpapered, painted, and tiled her home and made almost all her children's clothing. She received her award in a handsome black suit made by herself. Mrs. Anderson has three daughters and four sons, all outstanding. Me EMILY HANCOCK (DAVID) sm1TH, Idaho Falls, another Latter-day Saint woman, was the Idaho Mother of the Year. Mother of eleven children, grandmother of ninety-one, great-grandmother of seven, she was matron of the Idaho Falls temple for six years while her husband was temple president. She stressed both the gospel and educational pursuits in teaching her children. Dr. Roy Fugal, of New York City (son of Mrs. Lavina C. Fugal, Utah and American Mother of 1955), as chairman of the Advisory Board of the American Mothers Committee, presented to successful candidate Mrs. Engdahl, the motherhood statuette by Latter-day Saint sculptor Avard Fairbanks, which has been the National Mother award for several years. ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, a member of the National Board, attended the proceedings. ARY BROWN CLARK, of Provo, Utah, 104 years old, born in Lehi in 1859 to pioneer parents John and Amy Snyder Brown, has recently become a great-great-greatgrandmother, with the birth of Richard Saxton in Heber City. All six generations in the descent of baby Richard are living. Mrs. Clark's father, John Brown, accompanied Orson Pratt as a scout and saw Salt Lake Valley from the summit of Big Mountain on July 19, 1847— the first view by any of the pioneers. 505 Modern Pioneers HE word pioneer may conjure up a picture of a woman whose long skirts draggle in the dust trudging wearily over the miles to reach a shining goal where opportunity dwells. In today's world with the land bought up and fenced off, the role of the pioneer may seem to have vanished. However "one who opens up new lands" is only one definition of pioneer. It also means to open up or prepare a way. There is great need for individuals to pioneer today — to strike out away from the ways of the world, from evil trends, wicked practices, and the enticements of conspiring men. Relief Society members can pioneer in many fields, many of which were practiced by their pioneer forebears, by their grandmothers and greatgrandmothers. Recently a young woman was getting married who pio- 506 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer neered in acquiring her household furniture. She accepted offers from relatives and kind friends of castoff pieces of furniture. Then, through ingenuity and a moderate outlay of cash, coupled with imagination and painstaking labor, the castoffs — though of different periods and styles — were brought into a harmonious whole. 'The effect was very homelike and attractive, and there was no bondage to debt in the months ahead of making monthly payments. Many families and friends, learning of the desire of a young couple to make over and make do, are happy to assist in this way.; Another wife pioneered in doing genealogical work, giving up a social group to enabie her and her husband to search out their progenitors. Certainly this was modern pioneering, for they were the first to prepare the way for their beloved ancestors to attain exaltation. A mother and father pioneered in the recreational needs for their teen-age children. Unable to provide money for movies and attendance at other public places of amusement each week, they planned "game" parties for each Friday night to which their children invited their friends. They enjoyed gala occasions with little expense except for the food. Sometimes, instead of games, the evening was spent pulling taffy, making other candies, or preparing other types of food. 'These party plans spread to the friends' homes also where the pioneer joys of partying at home became - a happy practice. It takes courage to pioneer, and a conviction of the rightness of one's cause. 'here must be a goal in view. Any sister who feels dissatisfied with matters as they are being practiced in her home can become, through enthusiasm, planning, persistence, and good judgment, added to courage, a modern pioneer and attain the satisfaction of creativity as she improves the lot of her family by pioneering new ways. —M. C. S. 507 The Brainstorm Helen S. Phillips Jr was right after fall round-up | last year that I had my first brainstorm. Since our ranch country is so far from civilization, school is always dismissed for a week every fall so we boys can help round up the cattle. We hadn't been back in classes too long, the day Pudge Lambert and I were eating lunch together out on the playground. Pudge hadn't earned his nickname for nothing. Enviously, I watched him tear into three sandwiches, two apples, and start in on a huge stack of homemade oatmeal cookies, while I choked down the usual Rusty Cameron special: one dry sandwich and a couple of storebought cupcakes. "If I had that many cookies, I'd sure divide up with a pal,' I re- 508 marked, my mouth watering. "Rusty, pal, why don't you bring your own?" Pudge mumbled through bulging cheeks. That did it! "You know I would, if there was anybody at home to make them," I said, heatedly. "Why doesn't your dad hire a housekeeper then?" Pudge asked, as he finally handed me a couple of his precious cookies. "At least they can bake things." "Who wants a housekeeper?" I swallowed another delicious mouthful. "I've decided that what Dad and I need around our ranch is a mother. This isn't the first time I've thought so, either." Pudge eyed me with a frown. "Rusty Cameron, are you serious?" When I said I was, he warned, "You don't really have it so bad, you know. Fathers don't make you put on clean clothes every day, and I'll bet you and your Dad get to eat anything you want. What's so wrong with that?" "Plenty!" I said emphatically, reaching for more cookies. How could I explain the way an empty house echoed, with no mother there to welcome you home from school? Or how your Dad could be like a real buddy when you were doing the chores together but forget to make conversation during the long, lonely evenings? 'Those were just two reasons. There were about a hundred others. "Lately, I've been thinking about this mother business a lot," I continued. "Since Mom died, it does seem like Dad could have found someone for us by this time, if he had just put his mind to it. Dad says it gets tiresome after awhile, having women fall all over him just because he's a widower. So I've decided it's up to me." "You are serious!" Pudge exclaimed. "I suppose next you'll be telling me you have someone picked out." "Not exactly, but I'm working on it," I admitted. This project wasn't going to be easy. Even I have noticed that ladies don't stay out in our ranch country unless they're already married. Pudge and I began counting. There was Miss Agatha, Bud Skinner's old maid aunt out at the Circle Bar S. She's kinda wrinkled and skinny, though, probably too old for my Dad, even. Then there is Miss Flossie, the doctor's sister, who plays the organ in church on SunTHE BRAINSTORM day. Sometimes she accompanies her own soprano solos. If she sounded like that at round-up, boy! The cattle would stampede for sure. She doesn't look too much like a moth- €f, ener. That left only our new school teacher. For some reason, Dad doesn't have too much use for teachers. Once at a church supper I heard old Mrs. Grigsby say it was too bad that every year the new teacher always sets her cap for Tom Cameron, and him still carrying a torch for his dead wife. That shows you how much Mrs. Grigsby knows about it. Who needs torches? Our ranch has electricity now, even in the barn. "If you're smart, you'll choose Miss Marston," Pudge said. "So far, she's the neatest teacher we've had yet. Prettiest, too." HE lunch bell rang, and we took our seats. Right away I started drawing my map of Asia Minor, because it gave me a chance to study Miss Marston. She really was pretty, with soft brown hair and blue eyes that crinkled when she smiled. She smiled at us a lot, too, like she was happy to bea teacher. Like she didn't even mind teaching in a one-room schoolhouse clear out here in Hawk Springs. I decided it wouldn't take much practice for her to start being a mother. Now all I had to do was get her and Dad together. Dad isn't too crazy about PTA, but I had to start somewhere. After dinner that night, when he said, "Homework, son?" I had my second brainstorm. "Just about a ton of it is all," I 509 JULY 1963 groaned, crossing my fingers. "Also, Miss Marston might think I haven't been getting the right help at home. She says." "Never mind what she says," Dad interrupted, getting red in the face. Actually, my dad is very smart. He can help me find the answer to practically anything. "Did you say there's PTA tonight? Sounds as if I'd better go after all. I need to get a few things straightened out in my own mind." He stood up and reached for his hat. "You'd better wear your best clothes," I said, not daring to look at him. "Miss Marston is really pretty." "Just another old maid_ schoolteacher," he grunted, but I noticed he took a shower and changed clothes before he left. I was still doing my homework when he came home a couple of hours later. From the way he stomped in, looking cross and grumpy, I knew better than to ask questions. "Aren't you in bed yet?" he barked. Boy! Dad hardly ever raises his voice at anyone, so something really bad must have happened. As I headed for bed, I heard him mutter, "As for that new teacher, she's the stubbornest woman I ever met. Made it pretty clear she had no use for me, either." GcHOOL wasn't so good the next day, either. Miss Marston didn't smile at anyone, and even the other students noticed that she kept picking on me. "Let's hear all your times tables, Rusty," she said in a stern voice. "Only recently I have been informed 510 that my teaching methods are somewhat questionable. We must correct that, along with a few other strong opinions. Which certain people seem to hold." None of us knew exactly what she was talking about, but boy! I was tired of those seven times tables before she let me take my seat. Well — things hadn't started out too well, but I wasn't ready to give up yet. Talking to Pudge after school gave me an idea for my next plan of action. "Miss Marston is coming out to our place tonight," he announced importantly. "Mom invited her to dinner and she said, good, that would give her a chance to have a conference about me." A conference with the teacher? I had never heard of it, but if Pudge got to have one, then so should I. I hurried back inside the schoolhouse. Miss Marston looked up from her desk. "Why, Rusty," she exclaimed, "what is it? Aren't you supposed to ride home with the other boys?" "My horse can catch up with theirs any day," I bragged. Then I stole a peek at her face. Boy! She was even prettier up close. I didn't realize I was staring until she began to blush. "Uh Miss Marston uh " My tongue was getting all twisted up. "I think you should have a conference with my Father... About my homework," I added hastily. "Would it be convenient for you to come in time for dinner tomorrow night?" "Rusty, are you sure?" she began, but I crossed my fingers and did my best to look innocent. Then she drew a deep breath. "Maybe he does see my point of view!" she smiled. "You may tell your father I'll be there." I wish I could report that the conference was a big success, but, like George Washington, I cannot tell a lie. I hurried home after school the next night and went straight to the kitchen, instead of going out to help with the chores. Company meant cake, so I got out Mom's old cookbook and started mixing things up. Mixed up is nght! That about describes the way things were when Miss Marston arrived at the front door. Just about then, Dad came in from doing chores. Anyone could tell by the way he looked that he wasn't expecting company. Especially not Miss Marston, who looked especially dressed up. HE looked at Dad, then at me. "Tm sorry," she said stiffly, "apparently I misunderstood Rusty yesterday.... I got the impression you wanted to have a conference with me concerning his schoolwork." Mrs. Grigsby says that for a rancher, my father has impeccable manners, whatever they are. "I'm sure that a conference might be helpful," he said politely. "Would you excuse me for a few minutes? Rusty, you can entertain our guest while I change." Of course he meant for me to take her into the living room, but first thing I knew, Miss Marston had tied a dish towel around her waist and was helping me finish the cake. When Dad came back, all three of us cooked scrambled eggs and bacon, and IJ thought the dinner THE BRAINSTORM turned out just fine in every way. Even a blind man could see that Miss Marston would make a perfect mother. I kept watching Dad, to see if he noticed. If he did, he surely wasn't letting on! As soon as the conference began, I went in the other room to do homework. Both of them were very polite to each other, but their conversation didn't sound too friendly. "Frankly, Miss Marston, I think a city girl has no business signing a contract to teach school in the country," Dad said, at one point in the conference. "This is no land for softies. You probably won't last any longer than the other teachers who came out here and wasted a year of their lives, as they said." "We'll see who's a softie," she retorted crisply. "I happen to believe that a person can adapt to any environment he or she chooses. If she likes people, that is." That's the way it went most of the evening. I didn't hear much conference about me, though. Finally, it was time for Dad to see her home. Out here we never let ladies ride alone after dark. As they went out the door I whispered, "Dad, be sure to kiss her goodnight!" They both acted like they couldn't hear me. Sometimes grownups are so funny! I guess he didn't kiss her. Because after dinner the next night, Dad came out all dressed up like it was some special occasion. I eyed him hopefully. "Something going on I haven't heard about?" He laughed and clapped me on the shoulder. "Rusty, don't you think it's time we considered having a woman around here?" 511 JULY 1963 "Boy!" I whooped, "that would be neat. Miss Marston's the one I'd choose, too!" His grin faded. "That Miss Princess? As a matter of fact, I'm taking Miss Flossie to the square dance tonight. She's our type, son, more than any city girl would be." Well how do you like that? I certainly didn't! For the next couple of weeks, Dad just ignored me if I mentioned Miss Marston. Instead, he dated Miss Flossie so often that everyone was talking about it. When I saw the silly way she acted around Dad, though, and he didn't mind, I got a scary, cold feeling inside. Surely, he wasn't serious! Couldn't he see she just wasn't the mother type? That's how matters stood the morning of the storm. I had my horse all saddled and ready to leave for school when Dad cocked an eye at the low-lying clouds on the horizon. "I don't like the looks of the weather," he said. "Those thunderclouds are coming up too fast to suit me. With the prairie as dry as it is, a lightning storm is all we need. Better tell your Miss Marston that out in this country a smart schoolmarm dismisses classes in weather like this. 'Too much danger of a prairie fire. 'Then you high-tail it for home early." Probably it was a mistake to give Miss Marston the message in front of the class. "Thank you, Rusty," she said lightly, "it's kind of your father to offer advice so often. Unfortunately, the school board specifed nothing about bad weather holidays, so I suppose we had better stay today." She smiled at the class. 512 "Very well. Let's begin with arithmetic." All of us glanced uneasily at one another. We weren't sure whom to obey, our parents who said to come home, or the teacher who said to stay. So we stayed. HAT waS one morning it was harder than usual to. Concentrate. The schoolroom temperature was stifling hot for October, and when we opened the windows there wasn't a breath of air stirring. The sun looked like a hot brass ball, before clouds began moving in to cover it with a hazy gray film. We began hearing the first rumbles of thunder in the distance, and when the lightning began to crackle as it came closer and closer, Pudge held up his hand. '"Ma'am," he said apologetically, "out here prairie storms come up mighty fast. Maybe we should uh that is." "Pudge, of course." Miss Marston stood up. "Students, anyone who wishes may be excused to go home immediately." Amid_ the Shouts and noises of departure, I guess no one else noticed that Miss Marston sat back down at her desk. I sat down, too. "Tl just do homework for awhile, if you don't mind," I said. "Dad'll be out on the range, and I hate to go home to our empty house." She didn't say anything, but her eyes looked sympathetic. We worked in silence for awhile. Presently she glanced out the window, then quickly began to gather up the papers on her desk. "T think we'd better start for home, Rusty," she said uneasily. "Look at that sky!" I looked, then ran outside. Everything seemed to be enveloped in a murky, dark haze. Smoke or dust? I couldn't tell. The air felt so charged with electricity it almost hummed. Suddenly, there was a sharp crack and a blinding flash. Then another, and another. That lightning was too close for comfort! I scooted back inside. "Let's lock up and get going!" I shouted. In the distance I could hear the frenzied snorts of our horses as they reared and strained against the hitching rail. Lightning was one thing they wanted no part of. As soon as we banged the door shut behind us, I could see why. Those bolts of lightning had started several small fires, all headed in our direction. "T can't believe it!" Miss Marston gasped. 'Then, after another look at the surrounding prairie, she straightened her shoulders resolutely. "Rusty, we just can't leave the schoolhouse to burn down. If only we had some wet gunny sacks, couldn't we use them to head off the fire before it gets any closer?" For Miss Marston, anything was worth a try. Luckily I found some empty sacks out in the woodshed. We soaked them in the stock watering trough then frantically beat at the flames. Back to the water, then to the fire. It was backbreaking work. The routine seemed endless — and hopeless, for as quickly as we smothered one flame, another sprang up in its place. Finally, discouraged, I looked at Miss Marston. She was a mess! Hair all straggly, face smudged with dirt and ashes, and her dress looked THE BRAINSTORM as soggy as one of the gunny sacks. Even like that, she was still better than Miss Flossie. Wearily, she stood up and brushed the hair out of her eyes. "Tell me, Rusty," she said, "what do you think your father would do now?" "Well," I answered, "probably dig a trench around the schoolhouse and start a backfire, I guess." That's what we were doing when they found us, Dad and the crew from our ranch. Miss Marston was grimly trying to dig a trench with the rusty shovel I had found, and I had a pretty fair backfire started when they came driving up with the wagon. Like clockwork, part of the men unloaded a plough, hitched it to the team and finished digging the trench. 'The rest of them soaked down the roof with the wet sacks, then watched the backfire really take hold. We just stood there, too tired to move, as Dad hurried up to us. For a minute he didn't say anything. Then he gave me a quick hug, and I saw him look at Miss Marston like he wished he could hug her, too. 'Then he reached out and took one of her hands, gently touching the blistered palm. "You two make a real team," he said huskily. "Any chance I could join in?" Was there! Miss Marston blushed and I whooped, "It's about time!" as I ran off to check on the horses. Dad and the teacher just stood there and looked at each other. P. S. I haven't had a single brainstorm since I got my new Mom. It was all strictly Dad's idea — he thinks! 513 Josef Muench 514 Mount Hood and Lost Lake, Oregon Portals of Summer Ida Elaine James | pause within tall portals, slim and straight, As one who lingers in a vestibule Of long, long corridors, before | sate My being with the dim and sweetly cool Beauty promised me within the great Green vistas of the forest. Is there one Who dares to drop upon these leaves and prate Of self's abandoned hopes, of life's work done? | lean my ear on stems that sweetly bend To my tired cheek, whereunder insects lie No more encumbered in their crypt than I, And loose my stifled, harrowed soul, and blend My psalm with lullabies of birds and flowers.. A rite that cleanses me from wasted hours. inside and out e Grandson Grows n My Garden Summer Fancy Stitching for your daughters £ addition to providing a delightful sense of companionship between a mother and her young daughter, the learning of embroidery stitches provides an acquaintanceship with the handling of a needle and thread, the wearing of a thimble, the use of embroidery hoops, and the feel and texture of material. Also, a discriminating love of color and design may be fostered, and perhaps a handicraft skill that may be a lifetime joy can be initiated by a mother for her daughter through summer afternoons of love and stitching. Some accomplishments valuable to seamstresses can be first achieved by practice of embroidery stitches, such as buttonhole work, and the delightful basket-weave stitch which may become an asset in later mending and darning. It would bea good beginning if the first item chosen was a dish towel. The pattern can be simple, and mistakes are not so disastrous. In a very short time the nimble fingers will want to tackle anything from dish towels to intricate appliqued bedspreads or crewel work, with pure delight in the feeling of progression. ttt i a aaa a a a a a ae aD a a oD a ap eee ae ee ew awe ee THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT ge a0 Mae AD ry Ny) nan el LALO Wi \ We i. E = -_ = be = = =~ oe ic ow"2rerow Lew ee eee = ie fe eas ------~ 117 jl v 1 4 LJ WNT ODA NOD WRN NSS Sc TS ap ee | = oe Sinem ier on. Emamiowicshiill WAN AL LAAN z, \\\) = WT mere ae ee wae ere ee 2 ee wee wre e2ee = = e AV esecencccscss2: aa -_— oa as por} INlustrations of the Use of the Basic Running Stitch in Decorative Embroidery SEWING EQUIPMENT—It is very important to have good sewing equipment, so give your daughter a sewing kit of her very own soon after school closes. This kit can be as simple as a small sturdy box containing a few articles, to an elaborate sewing basket, filled with dozens of sewing gadgets. Whichever you choose, the sewing kit should include a thimble her own size, a small pair of scissors, embroidery hoops, embroidery needles with the long eyes (then she can quickly learn to thread them), and a good assortment of colorful embroidery floss. Have her wind each color on an empty spool. This makes for a neater basket, and also makes it easier to select and obtain the proper color. Show her how to separate the strands, so that they will be ready for use. F you give your daughter a good basic embroidery education, teaching her the different stitches and possibilities first, she will have self-confidence to begin with, and will have a stronger desire to carry each project through. 517 JULY 1963 ~< y UJ Cross-Stitch Used to Decorate Children's Clothing Here, then, are the basic steps and the way to teach them: 1. BASIC RUNNING STITCH This gives little fingers a limbering up. It is also a good stitch to teach accuracy in following lines. If the child is very young, it is good to begin learning on a square of checkered gingham. The gay colors will add enjoyment for her, and she can make some useful items with less time involved, thereby realizing accomplishment more quickly. Show her how to tie a neat knot in the end of her thread, and show her how to put the needle up through the cloth from underneath right on the line. Make running stitches between the squares. Several rows make a nice border. If you make running stitches crosswise, you will get small squares. You can make many kinds of borders by doing running stitches in different ways. Do some running stitches on the following practical articles: A luncheon cloth and napkins: Take a piece of fabric 36 inches square and make a border about two or three inches from the edges. Now fringe the edges. Make napkins to match. A clothespin doll: The dress is made of a straight piece of gingham just wide enough to let the "head" and "'feet'' of the clothespin show. Make a border of your choice along the bottom edge, and then gather the top edge, again using the running stitch. This also makes a skirt for her favorite little doll. A carryall bag: Make this by cutting two rectangular pieces of gingham making a border or an all-over design. Now use the running stitch to sew the pieces together on three sides, hemming the fourth side, and putting in a drawstring. 2. CROSS-STITCH This stitch delights the beginning seamstress, for it gives her the feeling of "really sewing." The cross-stitch should always have the stitches going the same way. Never make each cross-stitch individually. Work across, slanting all the stitches in one direction. Then come back across your work, slanting the stitches the other way. Gingham is again very good to learn on. If the checks are small, your crosses will 518 KR ade Ww! CIHR PPeerez sae et 7 be small. If the checks are large, the crosses will be larger, but remember to make a cross from corner to corner. Make a design by filling in certain squares and leaving others blank. Some practical items to make with cross-stitching: Pockets for your plain-colored dress. The border for your new skirt. A pair of pillow slips with a stamped cross-stitch design. 3. THE OUTLINE STITCH This is a little more difficult, but if you remember to teach your daughter to bring the needle out exactly on the line she wants to follow, she will have no trouble. It is done with a backwards stitch. Teach her to take as short a stitch as she is able, then her work will be neater. Learn first on straight lines, as it is on the turns that the beginner usually has trouble. On checked gingham, it is an easy trick to learn to make designs using the outline stitch. Now she is ready to tackle more difficult patterns. Dresser scarfs or again pillow slips are a good choice. She can find them printed with a combination of the crossstitch and the outline stitch. This enables her to use two new skills. 4. LAZY-DAISY STITCH This is still a little more difficult to do, but by practicing on simple items, she will be delighted at the fast results. The beginner nearly always pulls the thread too tight. This pulls the loop into a straight line, and the flower petal effect is lost. Caution her against this. With this new stitch, a colorful flower garden will appear on tablecloths or aprons. She can vary her flowers from four petals to six, or even larger. She can also make the leaves on an outline stitched stem. 519 GS MN = WM Yd | = a SS We Ll i Ideas for the use of the lazy-daisy stitch: Help your little seamstress make a triangle decorated with lazy-daisy blossoms and fringe the two edges, hemming the bias edge. This makes an attractive head scarf, and she will be proud of her own handiwork. A bib for baby: Just cut two bib shapes of cotton fabric, and one of flannel, plastic, or heavy fabric, for a padding. Now put them together with a bias binding. If you cut your own binding, you can make it wider, and it will be easier for youngsters to sew in place. I A laundry bag: 'This is made by taking two rectangles and rounding one edge slightly to fit a wooden hanger. Cut a slit down the center of the front about % of the way. Now bind this slit with bias. Stitch three straight sides together and bind the curved sides together with bias. Slip the hanger inside. 5. THE FRENCH KNOT This stitch is a real test as to the ability of even some well-established stitchers, but it is required on nearly every piece of fancywork we pick up, so is a "'must." Be sure to keep the child from becoming discouraged by reminding her that practice makes perfect. If she makes rows and rows of French knots on a plain square of fabric, it will help her. Let her pick out the best knots in the row and try to make the next ones like them. If you make them along with her, it will help. To make a French knot: Pull the thread up through the cloth. Now hold the thread with your left hand and wind it around the needle three or four times. Now pull the thread tight and put the needle back through the cloth close to where the thread came out. Loosen the knot enough to push the needle through. Now pull the thread tight. Be careful to keep the knot close to the cloth at all times. If you want larger knots, don't wind the thread more times, but simply use more strands of thread in your needle. French knots are used mostly for the center of flowers, but they can be used in rows to make designs. 'Try this on a gingham border for a tea towel. There are many other stitches, but these are the basic ones, and are enough to get your daughter started. Take that shopping trip with her for your supplies real soon. It will make for a delightful summer, and one your daughter will always remember. 520 Let-Downs and Hand-Me-Downs Janet W. Breeze [a ORE sending children's clothes to the cleaners at the end of a season, remove hems at sleeves and skirts or coat bottoms. Store them clean with hems hanging until you need the clothing again. It will then be a simple job to adjust for growth and press your family's "'seasonready" items. Also, don't overlook the economy in selecting a little girl's coat with turn-back cuffs. A too-short coat can be tolerated when the sleeves can be turned down. To lengthen a little girl's slip, open the shoulder seam and insert an additional strap length. 'This will drop the whole slip. Replace outgrown straps with an inexpensive pair of suspenders, and you can extend the life of many of your little boy's trousers. Since children's clothing sizes generally run according to age, store outgrown clothing in cartons marked with a large numeral for each (% - 1 - 2 - 3 - 4, and on up). This makes it easy to "hand it down" without missing a few items here or there. When a child becomes disgruntled at having to wear '"'hand-me-downs" within the immediate family, there are several ways in which to make second-hand articles seem more personal and '"'new"': Besides occasionally buying the second child "new" clothing, you can (1) dye white or pastel clothing; (2) add a flower, pin, embroidery, new collar, pocket, or suspenders; (3) hide let-down seams in little girls' skirts and dresses with small tucks, braid, or rickrack. When an older child must give up an outgrown treasure, such as a hat, muff, or even toys, it sometimes eases the blow if he is "guided" into wrapping the item regally as a very special Christmas or birthday gift for a younger child, whether in or out of the family. While we were growing up, there was one item in our house which held more fascination for us than anything else. It was (at that time) an enormous wardrobe traveling case, tucked securely away under a bed for entertaining us on those long, late-summer afternoons when we had already done everything else. On days such as this we were allowed to open the wardrobe case and peek inside at all the 'old clothes' which had mysteriously accumulated. One by one, we would carefully drape the moth-scented treasures all over the room. And then, pencil and paper in hand, we would design our new school wardrobe for fall. You see, we never thought of wearing "made-overs" as such. Most of the things we wore to school were the products of a wonderful creative experience. Even when Mother made the final decision that black crepe was not a fit school dress for an eight-year-old, the disappomtment was easy to bear. All else became swallowed up in the button-snipping, seam-ripping business of preparing our creations for the seamstress. And how proud we were of oui reputations as junior dress designers! 521 Threshing Adrian Hansen Exr to Christmas and the Fourth of July, the most fun of the entire year was at threshing time. The huge grain stacks stood like vellow igloos ready to be consumed by the machine. The wagons, loaded with poles, iron rods, chains, and all the equipment, would come first. Finally, the big, red, box-like threshing machine, drawn by two teams of horses, would be driven in between the stacks and staked into position. The straw carrier at the end of the machine reached way out behind like a flat tail, with its endless chain of slats ready to carry the straw into the stack. At the end, were the rows of teeth to grasp the grain and force it into the machine. Now came the exciting part. The heavy iron driving rod was put into position, reaching from the thresher and the separator, to the horse-power platform. 'This was a floor over a huge cogwheel lying flat on the hub. From this platform several poles extended, usually five poles. To each of these poles was hitched a team of horses, and they traveled round and round in a circle pulling the large wheel which connected with a smaller cogwheel on the end of the big driving rod. As this rotated, it propelled the mechanism of the separator. Of course, we never paid much attention to all this detail. 'The thing to really see and hear was the shout of the driver getting all the 522 horses to start at once. Then there was the low growl of the machine as it began to operate, getting louder and higher in pitch as it picked up speed. Soon the noise was so deafening everyone had to shout to be heard. The dust rose in stifling clouds, especially back of the straw carrier. 'The man who worked there wore goggles over his eyes and his big red bandanna handkerchief was tied over his mouth and nose. All the workers wore bandannas tied around their necks to keep out the chaff. By now the operation had settled into a rhythm of movement. The horses stepped the same gait around and around the circle, the driver turning and lightly cracking his whip. The men on. The stack dropped the bundles in turns onto the feeder platform. Two men stood there, the first with a sharp knife with which he cut the twine from each bundle before pushing it to the next man, who fed it evenly, heads first, into the machine. The grain poured from the side of the machine into the half-bushel measures which were emptied into sacks, and the grain was carried to the granary. Each man carried three measures each trip. It took at least three men to carry the grain from the thresher to the granary, and they ran on the way back with the empty sacks. 'They often used the sacks to give a playful slap at the man with a load on his back as they met; or, to our great glee, they might include one of us in this play, making us feel very much a part of things. The man in the straw stood hip deep in the loose stuff, forking it back away from the carrier. At times he would be almost buried. There was a chaff carrier, too. A man with a huge wooden fork with wide tines moved the chaff as it sifted between the slats of the straw carrier. He kept a red bandanna tied over his nose and mouth to keep out the smothering dust, but even then it must have been a very miserable job. To us children he had a special attraction because he was really in this big event right up to his ears. Before long his eyebrows and _ hair not covered by his hat, would be thick with chaff. What a wonder-. Ful show he put on when the machine stopped and he used his floppy old felt hat to beat the chaff from his shoulders and back, and grinned at us from his mask-like face. HE men were not the only ones who were busy at threshing time. Mother and the girls had to prepare the meals for the crew. There were six or eight regulars who followed the machine, and then each farmer had to get extras to carry grain, take care of the straw and, sometimes, pitch the bundles from the stack to the machine. This meant there might be from twelve to fifteen men to feed. And when it was threshing time, they all showed up for the meals, even breakfast. Of course the men who operated the machine stayed right with it night and day. THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT Breakfast was served by sunrise at the latest. Dinner was at noon, and such food as we were expected to provide! A woman's reputation as a cook was often based on how she fed the threshers. It soon became common knowledge. There was not much stress placed on how it was served, but was there enough and was it good? There had to be meat — roasts, steak, or chicken — lots of mashed potatoes, stacks of homemade bread or biscuits, several vegetables, pickles, jam, and jelly. Pie, cake, or rice pudding was served for dessert. The women and children waited until the men were fed, but that was expected, and it was a real entertainment to see how much food could be consumed in so short a time. 'There was always enough food left over, although we had to wash part of the dishes before there were enough dishes to go round the second time. When the threshing was done, the straw stack looked like a yellow mountain to us children, and did we explore it! We would roll down the smooth trail left by the straw carrier until we looked as if we were made of straw, and our clothes were so full of chaff we could hardly endure the scratching. That was the price we had to pay for our fun, but it was worth it all. Then we played horse and tramped round and round the deep tracks worn by the horses, as they furnished the power for the threshing machine. Such wonderful memories of a life never to be forgotten, if you lived on a farm in the days of the horsepower threshing machine. 523 eAunt Marthas Wiggly Cake Linnie F. Robinson ' ¢. Butter or other shortening 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 C. Sugar. "4 tsp. Lemon flavoring 2 eggs (room temperature) 1% c¢. Flour % tsp. Salt if shortening is not salted 2 tsp. Baking powder '% c. Half and half, milk and cream Cream butter and sugar together until light and fluffy, add eggs, one at a time, and beat until light and fluffy. Add flour, sifted with baking powder, alternately with the half and half milk, ending with flour. Pour in vanilla and lemon flavoring and put in two cake tins for layered cake. Bake at 350° for twenty to twenty-five minutes. Cool ten minutes and turn out on rack. When cool, split one layer and put cooked cream filling in center, replace other half, and ice top of cake. Do the same with the next layer making a two-layered cake. Ice with pink icing. Serve as soon as possible. This is a cake that is lovely because of its tender, moist, and delicious appeal. It will not keep well. Wiggly Cake Filling 1 c. Milk 1 egg, beaten 3 tbsp. Corn starch "2 ¢. Cream "4 c. Milk 1 tsp. Vanilla "2 ¢. Sugar "4 tsp. Lemon pinch of salt Scald 1 c. Milk in double boiler, add sugar, salt, and corn starch dissolved in % c. Milk. Cook two minutes, add the beaten egg, mixed with the cream, and cook three to five minutes more. Add flavoring and cool. Icing for the Wiggly Cake "2 square butter, softencd % tsp. Vanilla 1 drop red cake coloring cream for mixing 7, \b. Powdered sugar Mix all ingredients except cream. 'Then add enough cream to bring icing to desired consistency. 524 the whole tamily Recipes From Sacramento Stake Submitted by Adelle Gorsh Applesauce Cake Mary Gleie Sift together: Add: 4 c. Flour 2 c. Chopped walnuts 2 tbsp. Cornstarch 2 ¢. Raisins (seedless or ground) 4 tbsp. Ground chocolate 3 to 4 c. Applesauce 4 tsp. Soda 1 ¢. Cooking oil 2 C. Sugar Y% tsp. Each cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice, cloves, and salt Mix lightly, and bake in moderate oven 350° for about one hour and ten minutes. Banana Nut Bread Arvilla Crandall 1 C. Sugar 1 tsp. Soda 2 c. Flour 1 tsp. Vanilla 2 eggs | 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Mashed bananas: "2 ¢. Chopped nuts 4 tbsp. Sour milk % c. Shortening Mix all together and bake in a greased loaf pan. Bake one hour at 350°. Walnut Squares Rosella Nolan Beat 1 egg until creamy and stir in 1 cup brown sugar. Sift together: Add: 5 tbsp. Flour ic. Chopped walnuts ¥, tsp. Salt % tsp. Soda Combine the two mixtures and bake 15 or 20 minutes at 375°. Cut in squares after mixture has begun to set. 525 Turkey Pie Lena Silver Brown 4 tbsp. Flour in 4 tbsp. Butter. Add 2% cups turkey stock and cook until thick and smooth. Season with salt, pepper, onion salt, and celery salt. Add 1 cup each of cooked peas, carrots, and turkey pieces. To make stock, cook turkey bones for one hour with celery, onion, parsley, salt, and pepper in amounts to suit taste. Strain after cooking. Biscuits: 2% c. Flour 24 c. Shortening 2% tsp. Baking powder 1% tsp. Paprika 1 tsp. Salt 24 tsp. Parsley flakes 1 beaten egg added to % c. Milk Roll mixture about 1% inches thick and cut into biscuits. Pour turkey mixture boiling hot into casserole, and place biscuits on top. Bake at 350° for about 20 minutes. Serves 6. Pork-Chop Casserole Shirley Extrand 4 lean pork chops 1 can bouillon 1 c. Uncooked rice 1 can water 1 green pepper Brown and season pork chops to taste. Place uncooked rice in 1% quart covered casserole and slice green pepper over top. Add browned pork chops, bouillon, and water. Bake at 350° until rice is done and pork chops tender, about one hour. Serves 4. Homemade Doughnuts Elva Coats 2 pkgs. Yeast (dry or compressed) 1 Cc. Sugar 3 c. Scalded milk, cooled 3 eggs beaten lightly 2 tsp. Salt ~~. Cooking oil. Sifted flour to make a soft dough, about 8 c. 526 Mix together all ingredients except flour. Add enough flour to make dough easy to handle. Let rise until double in bulk. Roll to % inch and cut. Let rise about 30 minutes and cook in deep fat until browned. Roll in granulated sugar or frost the doughnuts, as desired. Makes 4 or 5 dozen. Salmon Casserole Ethel Leishman 2 1-lb cans red salmon % tsp. Pepper 2 cans drained string beans % c. Pickle relish (save 1 cup liquid) 2 c. Milk 8 tbsp. Butter 2 c. Soft buttered bread crumbs 6 tbsp. Flour Remove bones and skin from salmon. Alternate salmon and string beans in greased 2-qt. Casserole. Melt 6 tbsp. Butter and add flour, salt, and. Pepper. Stir bean liquid and milk until blended and add to flour mixture. Stir until smooth and pour over the bean and salmon mixture and top with bread crumbs to which the remaining 2 tbsp. Butter have been added. Bake in a moderately hot oven (400°) for thirty minutes, or until golden brown on top. Serves 6 to 8. Tamale Pie Marie Gibby Pie filling 1 large onion 1 lb. Ground beef 1 clove garlic 1 pt. Tomatoes 1 tbsp. Cooking oil "' ¢. Ripe olives 1 tbsp. Butter salt, pepper, and chili pepper to taste Corn meal mush: 1% c. Corm meal, 1 tsp. Salt, and 4 c. Boiling water. Cook in double boiler until thickened. Fry onion and garlic in oil and butter until light brown, then add beef and cook until all redness is gone. Add remaining ingredients and simmer 10 minutes. Place in baking dish lined with % of the corn meal mush. Spread the other half of mush to cover filling. Bake about 40 minutes in oven at 350°. 527 Evelyn Davis Makes Lovely Floral Arrangements Evelyn Davis, Salt Lake City, Utah, has made flowers her hobby. Through the years her flowers have delighted the neighborhood and her floral arrangements have graced the chapel of her ward, and on special holidays she has made appropriate bouquets. She has decorated many tables for ward Relief Society banquets, and for other organizations in which she holds membership. She also makes use of original floral motifs in her rug and apron designs, and flowers enrich her landscape paintings. Mrs. Davis is mother to four sons, and she has nine grandchildren. Bernice MacLeod Knits Sweaters for Missionaries Bernice MacLeod, Sydney, Nova Scotia, Canada, shows her love for the Church by knitting warm and colorful sweaters for the missionaries in her area. She has knitted over ninety sweaters for missionaries. Shown in the picture with Mrs. MacLeod are Sister Stanley Adams, Elder Gordon W. Enders, and Elder Verl Christensen. Mrs. MacLeod introduced Relief Society work in the Sydney Branch in 1957. She was the first member of the Church in Sydney. 528 Front row, seated, left to right: Helen Grant, Sydney Stake visiting teacher message leader; Lyn Carter, Secretary-Treasurer, Sydney Stake Relief Society; Myrtle Stubbs, First Counselor, Sydney Stake Relief Society; Ethel Parton, President, Sydney Stake Relief Society; Margaret Gray, President, Parramatta Ward Relief Society; Elder Ken Hale, Bishop, Parramatta Ward; Bishop Ken Hale; Hazel Brown, Second Counselor, Parramatta Ward Relief Society; Elsie F. Parton, stake theology class leader. Back row, standing, left to right: Helen Harker, ward literature class leader; Kathleen Page; Anne Kirk; Anne Orro, ward organist; Anne Jones; Hilda Woods, work meeting leader, Parramatta Ward Relief Society; Shirley Sainsbury; Beryl Smith, ward visiting teacher message leader; Marion Verey; Jean Hale, ward social science class leader; Evelyn Redfearn; Ivy Willson; Lucy Bennett; Shirley Coltzau; Ann Campbell, ward theology class leader; Eunice Metcalf; Lillian Cook. Sister Ethel Parton reports: "Ihe Parramatta Ward of Sydney Stake sponsored a most enjoyable and unusual Christmas party. The majority in attendance were inactive and nonmembers of the Relief Society, and of the Church, so this occasion represented Relief Society in action for these women. 'The theology class leader portrayed the year's lessons in word pictures and visual aids, leaving her testimony to the strengthening of faith through this course of study. 'The literature class leader spoke of the benefits of literature and a study of the works of great authors in broadening the mind and bringing a greater international sympathy and understanding among peoples. Colored slides and an interesting commentary by the social scierce class leader created interest and enthusiasm. 'This study showed that all people are faced with some of the same problems and difficulties, with the same source of solution available — reliance on God. The work meeting leader told of the culture and niceties which may be gleaned from the lessons presented at these meetings. A mannequin parade followed, where many well-made and smartly styled frocks for different occasions were displayed, including the popular mother-and-daughter frocks. 'These frocks were made by the sisters who were taught, step by step, at Relief Society the art of frock styling and assembling. Finally, the over-all picture and supreme aim of Relief Society — compassionate service was presented. "A delicious lunch was served in the sociable and friendly manner of this group." 530 Grand Junction Stake (Colorado) Relief Society Fair and Other C r AY Front row, left to right: Josephine Prinster, President; LaNor Rowe, Magazine representative; Doris Gidney, visiting teacher message leader; Lucille Pace, theology class leader; Viona Pace, organist. Back row, left to right: Sue John, work meeting leader; Melba Larsen, SecretaryTreasurer; Beulah Whicker, First Counselor, Betty Christensen, Second Counselor; Mary Rogers, social science class leader. Sister Prinster reports: ""Before Christmas we held our first Relief Society stake fair. It by far surpassed our highest hopes in beauty, participation, and attendance by both members and nonmembers.... The planning began immediately after our stake convention in May (1962). At this time a tentative date was set, and the categories for different departments were specified. During the summer many committee meetings were held to set up chairmen over the departments and to assign special projects of beautiful and unusual articles to be made for display. "In October, lists of articles that might be shown were passed out to every woman in the stake. These were to be returned by the first of November, so that department chairmen would have an idea of how many articles could be expected in each category. "November found many a home slightly neglected, as ward and stake women intensified and coordinated their efforts to bring the fair to a successful conclusion. Two hundred invitations were mailed to Church, cultural and social groups, and individuals. Relief Society members were urged to contact friends and issue personal invitations....: "Our new cultural hall was truly beautiful. Over 550 members and guests flocked in. They were delighted and amazed at our outstanding collection of handmade articles. The walls were hung with quilts of many designs and colors, 'forming a beautiful backdrop for the rest of the displays. Some of our most outstanding departments were: Christmas displays, with fireplace, toys, and decorations; clothing department, with clothing for the bride, bridesmaids, and flower girls, also a silk and wool afternoon dress, with shoes covered to match; the antiques and heirlooms department drew special interest, with kettles, dishes, books, and clothing of our pioneer ancestors. The mammoth stage was devoted entirely to a picture gallery, where everything from oil paintings, copper tooling, and driftwood pictures could be seen.... Fancywork of 531 JULY 1963 all descriptions was brought in by the armload. Another attraction was the centerpiece made of dried weeds and flowers. The knitting corner drew many admiring glances, with its knitted sweaters, coats, hats, afghans, etc. There was one table piled high with pillows of all descriptions. Five beds were brought in and placed in an alcove. These were covered with beautiful crocheted bedspreads over lovely satin quilts and _ pillows. On the floor were laid hooked, crocheted, and braided rugs. In a corner was the baby department, with adorable quilts and clothing displayed. The tile and tin work made by the sisters drew many compliments. The booth of home-cooked and canned foods was a big attraction. One of the most clever displays was a driftwood tree adorned with bags and jewelry made by the sisters.... "We also included demonstrations of cake decorating, zipper and sleeve sets, making collars, quilting, and Magazine binding. Each guest was given a jar of jam or jelly, with a label on it which read: 'Compliments of the Relief Society.' Piles of Relief Society Magazines fairly melted away, as the guests were invited to 'take one.' "Our aim was to show the public our good works, so that they could have a desire to know more about us." SERRE URSA an RE RSGSEaRa gS" 3 Mount Ogden Stake (Utah), Fifty-third Ward Relief Society Bazaar November 1962 Left to right: Mildred S. Rose, President, Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society; Eva Lynch, President, Fifty-third Ward Relief Society; Ruth Pullum, ward work meeting leader; Helen Cook, Education Counselor, Fifty-third Ward Relief Society; Elaine Ward, Work Director Counselor, Fifty-third Ward. Sister Rose reports: "The sisters of the Fifty-third Ward have made attractive booths for displaying bazaar items. Their bazaars are outstanding because of this lovely background. 'There are ten booths altogether, so designed that they are easily assembled. To repay the costs of this project, the booths are rented to other wards and civic organizations." 532 Bountiful Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, January 2 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Thelma W. Barlow, chorister; Mildred B. Eyring, member, General Board of Relief Society; Ivy W. Richins, President; JoAnn E. Curtis; Elaine S. Holbrook, organist; Alta Miller, member, General Board of the Primary Association. Sister Richins reports: "The stake Singing Mothers have presented music at stake quarterly conferences for the past five years. We appreciate the effort these sisters put forth in preparation for these assignments and for the capable leadership of our chorister and organist, Elaine S. Smedley. 'This performance was outstanding. Taylor Stake (Canada) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Conference January 28, 1963 Seated at the right on the front row: Phoebe H. Norton, President, Taylor Stake Relief Society; at Sister Norton's right: Inez Gibb, chorister; seated at the right in the second row: Emma Dahl, organist. Sister Norton reports: This group was organized in 1956. Since then they have had the honor of presenting music for stake quarterly conference each year. They also sing at Relief Society conferences, visiting teacher conventions, and stake socials. On January 28, 1963, this group presented music for the afternoon session of the stake quarterly conference, when Sister Belva Barlow of the General Board of Relief Society was in attendance." 533 JULY 1963 Lehi Stake (Utah), Lehi Third Ward Relief Society Compiles Booklet "Thoughts to Cherish" Seated, front row, beginning third from the left: Letha C. Curtis, work meeting leader, who assisted in compiling the booklet; Lela C. Kalmar, compiler of booklet; Vickie Allred, Secretary; Doris T. Gardner, First Counselor; Iona S. Hadfield, President; Marian L. Fox, Second Counselor. Leah M. Sabey, President, Lehi Stake Relief Society, submits the following report from Sister Hadfield: "One of the nicest ideas we have had in our ward for a long time was the suggestion of our literature class leader, Lela C. Kalmar. She asked each sister to contribute her favorite thought, either a cherished old one or an original one. She then compiled these, with the help of work meeting leader Letha C. Curtis, who did all the typing. The 'thoughts' were then compiled into a beautiful booklet called 'Thoughts to Cherish,' a copy of which was given to each Relief Society member at Christmas time. Our sisters were very pleased with this booklet and will cherish it all the days of their lives." Hyrum Stake (Utah) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference Standing at the left: Myra Coulam, chorister; accompanists: Arlene Larsen at the piano and Ruth Maughan at the organ; Zola McGhie, member, General Board of Relief Society, stands at the left of the organ. Berenece B. Darley, President, Hyrum Stake Relief Society, reports this lovely occasion: "All of our stake Relief Society presidency sang in the chorus: Berenece B. Darley, President; Loraine Allen and Alda Walker, Counselors; and Angeline Smith, Secretary. It was a very inspirational conference. We received many wonderful comments from members of the stake who said it was one of the best conferences ever held in Hyrum Stake. Many of the Singing Mothers came to us and gratefully thanked us for giving them the opportunity to sing. We all feel that the Singing Mothers chorus is one of the finest activities in Relief Society work. In our stake it has helped to bring in new members and get more sisters active in Relief Society." South African Mission Singing Mothers Present Music for the Opening of the Pretoria Branch Chapel, November 25, 1962 Hilda H. Alldredge, President, South African Mission Relief Society, reports: ""To commemorate the opening of the new Pretoria Branch chapel in the nation's administration capital, Singing Mothers assembled from throughout the mission, some traveling nearly a thousand miles to attend. 'To cover the expense of travel and other expenses, each branch Relief Society held cake sales. The proceeds from sales covered all expenses. The chapel, lounge, and cultural hall were filled to overflowing for this long-awaited opening, and the Singing Mothers, one hundred voices strong, touched everyone with their lovely singing. The sisters learned the songs in each branch, then came together to sing under the direction of Valerie Snyman of the Vereeniging Branch. Besse de Wet was accompanist. Coupled with the chapel opening, a mission Relief Society convention was held under the direction of Hilda H. Alldredge, Mission Relief Society President. 534 180 na ARDS 5 remiss wee cen a sennnn aennemne serene AO 6. = 535 LESSON DEPARTMENT (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 64:1-14) For First Meeting, October 1963 Objective: To point out that he who repents of his sins and forsakes them is forgiven of the Lord. INTRODUCTION Wi the designation of western Missouri as the land of Zion, and Independence, Jackson County, as the center place of the Zion of the last days, preparations were underway for the saints to secure that land as their inheritance. In the early part of September 1831, preparations were made for Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon to go to Hiram, Ohio, where the Prophet was to reside at the home of Father John Johnson. -Their special work was to continue in the revision of the Bible, which the Prophet had commenced while in Fayette, New York, but because of other duties the Lord had commanded him to wait until he got to the Ohio. (D & C 37:1; 45:60-61.) Just before leaving for Hiram, the Prophet received the revelation from which this lesson is prepared. (DHC. 1:211.) 536 "YE SHOULD OVERCOME THE WORLD" To the elders who were preparing to leave for Jackson County, the Lord gave the comforting message that their sins were forgiven. (D & C 64:3.) Notwithstanding that the Church was only eighteen months old and the members were all con- — verts who had received a remission of sins through baptism, some had sinned in some things, although perhaps not grievously. (Rom. 3:10.) The thought expressed in verse 3 of Section 64, "verily I say, for this once, for mine own glory, and for the salvation of souls, I have forgiven you your sins," suggests the important truth that elders must so live to retain the remission of their sins that their own salvation will tredound to God's glory and that their effectiveness in the work of the Lord will bring others to salvation. The purpose of the gospel is to make men perfect through their obedience. When an elder strives with all his heart to keep the commandments, he enjoys the Spirit that convinces others of the truth (D & C 50:21-22), and he retains a remission of his own sins. (Mosiah 4:26.) Forgiveness of sins is dependent upon how well one overcomes the world. To enjoy the fellowship of the Spirit, one must eschew evil in all of its forms. Following the ways of the world by partaking of customs, practices, and ideas incompatible with what the Lord has revealed, brings loss of true happiness and the protecting companionship of the Holy Ghost. It is just as true today, as in 1831 when the first four verses of Section 64 were given, that the kingdom has been given to those who have received Jesus Christ in baptism, and therefore, the wonderful opportunity 'is theirs to receive the blessing of salvation by overcoming the world, always striving to retain a remission of sin. THE KEYS OF THE KINGDOM The members of the Church belong to the kingdom, but only one person holds the Priesthood keys _ which entitle him to direct the work of the kingdom. Joseph Smith is told in this revelation that he would continue to hold the keys of the mysteries of that kingdom as he observed the commandments. (D & C 64:5.) In an earlier revelation Joseph Smith was informed that if he did not prove faithful he could appoint another in his place. (Ibid., 43:1-10; Lesson 18, Relief Society Magazine, August 1959.) In the Prophet's case he had sinned as all LESSON DEPARTMENT men sin, although apparently not grievously. Because he had erred did not give cause for anyone to have "occasion against him without cause" (D & C 64:6). President George A. Smith said that throughout the history of the Church a spirit developed among many elders "to suppose that they knew more than the Prophet," and that he "was going wrong" (Journal of Discourses 11:7). THE STEPS OF REPENTANCE Throughout the revelations repentance and forgiveness are spoken of in connection with the Church membership as a whole and also with individuals. We should keep in mind that repentance is for everyone. Sins of omission as well as commission are condemned by the Lord. An example is from Section 58 where we learn that William W. Phelps was admonished to cease from seeking to excel and become humble (verses 40-41). The following verses express the law of forgiveness as it applies to the member of the Church: Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more. By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins — behold, he will confess them and forsake them (D & C 58:42-43). Several significant points are made in these verses. First, the soul that sins shall receive forgiveness, provided the repentance is sincere, and the sins shall no longer be remembered. Second, an important element of repentance is confession, and third, there is no repentance and consequently no _ forgiveness without forsaking sin. 537 JULY 1963 Elder Spencer W. Kimball has outlined the steps of repentance as (1) sorrow for sin, (2) abandonment of sin, (3) confession of sin, (4) restitution for sin, and doing the will of the Lord. (Conference Report, October 1949, page 127.) ft is probable that at no time does one lose completely his sensitivity to sin, but the full impact of the sin in bringing one to repentance is lessened by continued sinning. When the person repents, remorse of conscience brings the urge to abandon the sin and seek the Lord's forgiveness. 'The principal step to forgiveness is to forsake sin. In an earlier revelation, we learned that offenses committed with public knowledge should be confessed in public, while those committed. In secret should be rebuked in secret. (D & C 42:88-93.) Confession of sin is a part of repentance — confession to God in the name of the Savior, always. Those sins, however, that may affect the member's status in the Church are to be confessed to the Lord's representative, the bishop. In a commentary on Section 58, verse 43, Elder Spencer W. Kimball says: Especially grave errors such as sexual sins shall be confessed to the bishop as well as to the Lord. There are two remissions which one might wish to have. First, the forgiveness from the Lord, and second, the forgiveness of the Lord's Church through 'its leaders. -As soon as one has an inner conviction of his sins, he should go to the Lord in "mighty ' prayer" as did Enos and never cease his supplication until he shall, like Enos (of the Book of Mormon), receive the assurance that his sins have been forgiven by the Lord. It is unthinkable that God absolves serious sins upon a few requests. 538 He is likely to wait until there has been long sustained repentance as evidenced by a willingness to comply with all His othe requirements.. No priest nor elder. Is authorized to thus act for the Church. The Lord has a consistent, orderly plan. Every soul in the stake is given a bishop who, by the very nature of his calling and his ordination, is a "judge in Israel." The bishop is one's best earthly friend. He will hear the problems, judge the seriousness thereof, determine the degree of repentance and decide if it warrants an eventual forgiveness. He does this as the earthly representative of God, the master. Physician, the master psychologist, the master psychiatrist. If repentance is sufficient he may waive penalties which is tantamount to forgiveness. The bishop claims no authority to absolve sins, but. He does share the burden, waive penalties, relieve tension and strain and he may assure a continuation of activity. He will keep the whole matter most confidential ("Be Ye Clean,' BYU Speeches of the Year, May 4, 1954). To the elders (and to all members of the Church) referred to in Section 64, the Lord said that he would forgive whomsoever he would, but of us it is required to forgive all men. (D & C 64:10.) In other words, ultimate forgiveness is in the hands of the Lord, but he has promised, as indicated above, that he will, when, in addition to sorrow for sin, there is abandonment and confession of sins by. The one seeking forgiveness, forgive the sinner upon sincere. Repentance. Then, what more is required of the person seeking forgiveness? 'The next step is restitution insofar as this is possible. There are some things for which complete restitution - cannot. Be made. 'The murderer and the one who takes virtue cannot restore what is taken, but there are some things that might be done to mitigate the offense. In the case of the latter, complete and full devotion to the cause of Zion in bringing souls to Christ is a part of possible restitution. "And James indicated that each good deed, each testimony, each proselyting effort, each safeguard thrown about others is like a blanket over one's own sins, or like a deposit against an overdraft in the bank," said Elder Kimball. This leads us to the final step in tepentance. DOING THE FATHER'S WILL Since every person needs to repent (I John 1:8), some because of serious sins, we learn of another reason for keeping the commandments. The fullest measure of salvation is available to those who obey the Lord in all things, which includes repentance. (D & C 133:62). In the Lord's Preface to the Doctrine and Covenants, we find this sublime truth: For I the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance; Nevertheless, he that repents and does the commandments of the Lord shall be forgiven (Ibid., 1:31-32). A LAW OF FORGIVENESS Throughout the Saviors ministry emphasis was put upon man's relationship with his fellow man. His admonitions against murder, adultery, stealing, slander, and other vices were intended to bring peace to individuals and a reign of peace for all men. But, in general, mankind has not accepted the way of ~. Ppeace, and in these last days, the world is ripened in iniquity and is in need of great repentance. (See General Conference sermons by Elders Spencer W. Kimball and LESSON DEPARTMENT Delbert L. Stapley, Improvement Era, December 1961.) The Lord's forgiveness is withheld until the person can also forgive his fellow men. Elder James E. Talmage forcefully brings this point to the reader's attention by reference to several instances in Jesus' teachings, including the parable of the talents. (Matt. 18:23-35; Articles of Faith, pp. 110-111.) In commenting upon a part of the Lord's Prayer as given in the Bible (Matt. 6:9, 12), and the emphasis given in The Book of Mormon, Elder Kimball says:... Then in the Lord's prayer to the people in Jerusalem, he said: "Our Father which art in heaven... Forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors." Did he not mean in the same manner and in the same degree, perhaps, as we forgive. Our debtors? He made it a little more clear, even, to the Nephites, for after. He had said: "forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors" (3 Nephi 13:11) he said, "For, if ye forgive men their trespasses your heavenly Father will also forgive you; "But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses".(3 Nephi 13:14-15; also Mosiah 26:31). Condemnation, then, comes to you who will not-forgive, probably even greater than to him who gave the offense (Conference Report, October 1949, page 128). SECTION 64 AND FORGIVENESS In this dispensation, the Lord has revealed, with emphasis, the law that.. He that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin. I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men (verses 9-11). There were occasions when the disciples were guilty of offenses 539 JULY 1963 against one another and failed to forgive in their hearts, and for this the Lord said "they were afflicted and sorely chastened" (verse 8). It is consistent with gospel teachings that disobedience brings unhappiness, loss of the Spirit with its many blessings, and thus afflictions follow. Sometimes we think that the blessings of the gospel and also condemnations come only in the future existence. King Benjamin taught that. The Lord's blessings come bounteously in this life to those who remember him in faith. (Mosiah 2:24.) What greater blessing can be received than to have happiness here and eternal life in the world to come? (D & C 59:23). The living prophets have counseled the saint to follow the Savior's teachings in not setting up oneself in judgment against his neighbor. The common offenses that bring ill will, malice, and hatred are oftentimes due to misunderstandings. To eliminate this possibility, the Lord admonishes his followers to be the first to make reconciliation when offenses arise. 'The injured should go to the one who injured him and seek reconciliation! President David O. McKay has given us the Savior's teaching regarding forgiveness of fellow men in these words: If we would have peace as individuals, we must supplant enmity with forbearance, which means to refrain or abstain from finding fault or from condemning others. "It is a noble thing to be charitable with the failings and weaknesses of a friend; to bury his weaknesses in silence, but to proclaim his virtues from the house tops." We shall have power to do this if we really cherish in our hearts the ideals of Christ, who said: "If thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother 540 hath ought against thee; Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift" (Matt. 5:23-24). Note the Savior did not say if you have ought against him, but if you find that another has ought against you. How many of us are ready to come up to that standard? If we are, we shall find peace. Many of us, however, instead of following this admonition, nurse our ill-will until it grows to hatred, then this hatred expresses itself in fault-finding and even slander, "whose whisper over the world's diameter as level as a cannon to its mouth, transports its poison shot." Back-biting, fault-finding, are weeds of society that should be constantly eradicated. Gossip, too, brings discord and thrives best in superficial minds, as fungi grows best on weakened plants. "Bear ye one another's burdens," but do not add to those burdens by gossiping about your neighbors or by spreading slander. Diogenes was asked one day to name that beast, the bite of which is the most dangerous. The old philosopher replied: "Of tame beasts, the bite of the flatterer; of wild beasts, that of the slanderer" (Conference Report, October 1938, pp. 133-134). The law that the injured one make the first step to be reconciled with his brother does not remove the responsibility from the person who injured another to take the first step to reconciliation. HE SHALL BE CAST OUT The information concerning the unrepentant in Section 64 is an extension of what an earlier revelation said about "casting" the member from the Church because of disobedience to gospel principles. (See D & C 41:5-6; 42:20-28.) One of the laws given in Section 42 is the law concerning transgressors. 'This law provides that the unrepentant shall be brought before a Church court and, if found guilty, he shall be dealt with according to the law of God. (Ibid., 42:80-83.) The penalty of excommunication or disfellowship is not used as a means of destroying the individual, and every effort is made to save the person before such a penalty is administered. THAT GOD MAY BE GLORIFIED Why does the Lord command that the unrepentant sinner be cast out of his kingdom? And this ye shall do that God may be glorified — not because ye forgive not, having not compassion, but that ye may be justified in the eyes of the law, that ye may not offend him who is your lawgiver —. Verily I say, for this cause ye shall do these things (D & C 64:13-14). We know what the law of the gospel demands for members of the Church who evidence by their actions that they no longer want to remain in God's kingdom. But wherein is God glorified by the application of this law? An answer to this question is found in the mission of the Church in the last days. With the restoration of the gospel the last LESSON DEPARTMENT and greatest dispensation was ushered in. This is the last time that the Lord will call upon the inhabitants of the earth to prepare for the culmination of his work. In these times when Israel is gathered to fulfill the Lord's purposes for the salvation of man, the members of the kingdom of God must show the world by their lives that this is the day of fulfilled prophecy and that there is little time remaining until his work will be completed. We who have accepted the benefits of the atonement of Christ, must seek by earnest effort the perfection which God and Christ enjoy. (3 Nephi 12:48.) Questions for Discussion 1. What does it mean to overcome the world? In what ways can one be overcome by the world? 2. Discuss: Joseph Smith was the only man in his day who was to receive revelation for the Church. 3. Name the five steps m repentance as suggested in the lesson. 4. What part does confession of one's sins have to do with repentance? 5. Discuss: Forgiveness of sins comes by overcoming the sin for which one is guilty. 6. Discuss: If I forgive my fellow man, the Lord will forgive me. PRAY WITHOUT CEASING mp RAY without ceasing," said the Master. And remember that a song in the heart, - or even a lullaby, can be a prayer. — Pauline M. Bell 541 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 49 — "Wherefore, | Say Unto You, That Ye Ought to Forgive One Another" (D & C 64:9). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, October 1963 Objective: To show how forgiveness ennobles, enriches, and purifies our souls. HE principle of forgiveness, as described in this passage from the Doctrine and Covenants, is emphasized not only as a fundamental part of the gospel, but also as an essential guide_to full, happy. Living.__In the 64th Section of The Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord gives the above quoted passage and then continues, "For he that forgiveth not his brother His trespasses standeth condemned 'before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin" (D & C 64:9). In other words, he who fails to forgive commits even a "greater sin" than he who has sinned against him. Without doubt, the greatest example of divine forgiveness in the world was expressed in the dramatic words uttered by the Savior as he hung in agony on the cross, ""Father, forgive them; for they know -not what they do" (Luke 23:34). One of the glorious aspects of the principle of forgiveness is the purifying and ennobling effects its application has upon the personality and character of the forgiver. Someone wisely said, "He who has not forgiven a wrong or an injury has not 542 yet tasted one of the sublime enjoyments of life." 'The human soul seldom rises to such heights of strength and nobility as when it removes all resentments and _ forgives errors and malice. When one harbors resentment against another, it does the recipient little harm, but it shrivels and corrodes the soul of the one holding the grudge. When one hates another for some real or. Imagined wrong, the feeling of hatred assumes power and dominion over one's thoughts, sleep, health, happiness and even over one's appearance. The most. Expensive. Clothes and_ best beauty treatment cannot blot out the hard looks and appearance that are the by-products of hatred, resentment, and the unforgiving soul. Shakespeare said it this way, "Heat not a furnace for your foe. So hot that it do singe yourself:" Jesus fully realized the damaging effect of unforgiveness upon our characters and ° personalities. He said, "Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and ersecute you" (Matt. 5:44). This One of the world's most beautiful ountains, located in Jasper NationPark in Canada, was named for dith Cavell. Edith Cavell was a artime nurse executed by her emies for having hidden, nursed, d fed wounded soldiers. As she ood before the firing squad she ttered these deathless words now reserved in bronze and granite, "I lize that patriotism is not enough. Must have no hatred or bitterness ward anyone." If we have been wronged or inred, forgiveness means to blot it mpletely from our minds. 'To LESSON DEPARTMENT forgive and forget is an ageless counsel. "To be wronged or robbed," said the Chinese philosopher Con- -fucius, "is nothing unless you continue to remember it." In addition to the purifying and ennobling 'effects forgiveness has upon our own souls, this principle comes to us as divine instruction from our Father in heaven, and is a requisite upon which he grants us his forgiveness. It has been said, "He that cannot forgive others, breaks the bridge over which he must pass himself, for every man hath need to be forgiven." The Savior said "For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your Heavenly Father will also forgive you" (Matt. 6:14). WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home rt. Virginia F. Cutler or Second Meeting, October 1963 | } F all our social institutions, none exerts stronger or more lasting fluence upon the development of mily. Moral values, artistic. And cultural tastes, goals and aspirations are first implanted in the family circle. This imposes on the family group the necessity to work harMoniously together to develop con- € individual personality than the | genial and cooperative relationships Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) iscussion 9: The Family As a Planning Group jective: To encourage family members to actively engage in planning sessions where | matters pertaining to family betterment may be studied and wise solutions developed. With each other here on earth. Regular planning sessions facilitate the achievement of these goals. For the most part, a family living in one household is a two-generation family — parents and_ -: children. However, the third and fourth generations should not be forgotten in the planning. Final decisions are. Made by the two-generation group, but the wisdom of the elders is 543 JULY 1963 helpful in all major family, developments. The mother, who is the queen of the household, should, under the direction of the father, see to it that regular planning sessions are held. She is the home manager. She is in a position to become well acquainted with the unique personality of: each. Child and to know something of his potentiality. She has an important role in guiding and directing the planning sessions in such a way as to bring about harmony, love, understanding, and maximum growth and development for each member. It is important for the homemaker to know about current problems and to become well informed about theories for their solution; to "obtain a knowledge of history, and of countries, and of kingdoms, of laws of God and man.". (D&C 93:53). Now let us look at some of the problems of the day that require thoughtful study by the homemaker: 1. The family in Western society is no longer a producing unit. It has become a consuming unit, which means that production has been taken over by the community, and family members have moved out into the community to earn their daily bread. This lessens the time that the family can be together and multiplies the outside influences that affect personality development. This means that the homemaker must exert every power she has to upgrade the quality of time spent together as a family. Planning sessions are essential, if the cooperation of each member is achieved. A certain amount of production can still be carried on in the home if it is planned. One can argue that if a money value is placed on the time required for making a loaf of bread, most folks could earn 544 more outside, but if the time spent is considered in terms of training the chil dren to carry through an assignment, catch the thrill of accomplishment, and have something on the table as a result of their efforts, these intangible values cannot be measured in dollars and cents, and they will have a never-ending effect on the participants. "The homemaker will know of numerous such projects that can be planned where she will have opportunity to teach her children far more than just the skill required for a specific task. 2. The trend toward automation is throwing. People out of work. This may affect those who earn the income. Continuous learning, continuous progress toward acquiring skills and abilities for continuous growth must be in the planning picture to give greater family security for the future. 3. More and more people are being crowded into smaller and smaller space as population increases. 'There will probably be more multiple housing in the future and less chance to have a plot of ground for a garden spot. Careful study and planning for family housing suitable for the growth and: development of family members, is of basic importance. 4.. There is an increase in the duration of the life span, and at the same time a shortening of the earning years, which places a greater burden of dependence on the early and the late years of life. What long-time planning is necessary to launch the children and get ready for the years ahead? 5. Educational and employment pres sures cause people to move around the globe for desired opportunities. How can families acquire a feeling of stability and develop a sense of responsibility to their community and to their country when they never stay long enough in one place to put their roots down? The answer is contained in the history of our people. No matter how brief the stay in Kirtland, a-temple was built, and homes. Were made beautiful. No matter how brief the sta in Nauvoo, a temple was built, and th city became known as "The City Beauttful." To accomplish this rooted feelin in a short time takes much thought an planning. 6. Young people are marrying at an earlier age. Too often two untrained children start the marriage partnership poorly prepared. Preparation for marriage begins in the nursery, and the parents have the obligation to tram the children and become worthy of their respect so that their wisdom and advice will continue to be sought. This is a big order and takes much planning — step by step. 7. This stop-look-and-listen age has affected many people with spectator-itis. They like picture magazines instead of first-source material. 'They watch television entertainment. We forfeit indiLESSON DEPARTMENT vidual development by watching many programs of no cultural value. We must plan for the development of future leaders. 'Training in musicianship is needed today. Latter-day Saints are taking positions of leadership and can wield an increasing influence for the good of mankind if they are trained to do so. Homemakers, your task is a great one! Think! Plan! Be the guiding and directing influence to bring about the best possible earthly experience for you and your family. LITERATURE ® America's Literature The Last Hundred Years Lesson 41 — Mark Twain, a Great American Conscience (1835-1910) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 617-651) For Third Meeting, October 1963 Objective: To recognize Mark Twain's moral ideals and conflicts which shaped his literary art and his greatness. LL the world loves both love and laughter, therefore Twain is twice revered for he has come to be symbol of both, to his own age as to ours. And the five decades which have passed since his death, in 1910, have been increasingly kind to him. In his own lifetime he was so overwhelmingly considered to be merely a personality and a "funny man" that almost all American literary critics, save his great friend and advisor, William Dean Howells, ignored him as not meriting serious consideration. 'Today he ranks with his country's literary giants. He has Mark Twain 545 JULY 1963 always been the darling of the practical, middle-class reading public, and to this day his books are widely circulated in the average public library. TWAIN'S LIFE Samuel Langhorne Clemens was born in 1835 and reared in Hannibal, Missouri, facing the mile-wide majesty of the Mississippi River. Though quickened by the vast virgin land to the west, and pulsing with the cosmopolitan river traffic which kept it alive, Hannibal was not a frontier village. Its peaceful pattern was dominated by a securely established Southern culture, with schools, churches, libraries, and temperance societies. American life has never been more excitine and free than in the idealized boyhood which 'Twain remembered there and created into immortality within his best-loved books: Tom Sawver, Life on the Mississippi, and Huckleberry Finn. As he wrote decades later, were his veins to be opened, one would find no blood therein, but only Mississippi's mud. And when he spoke of Huckleberry Finn as a hymn, it is the lyric contentment and vital truth of his boyhood in Hannibal to which he referred. His father was a stern Southern gentleman who could never make ends meet, and who burdened his family with "the Tennessee lands," the real estate which he salvaged from his endless financial failures, and which, for decades after his premature death, was always going to make the family's fortune in. Just a few more months — maybe in a vear at most. Meanwhile, twelvevear-old Sam helped out by begin- 546 ning his long years as a printer and journalist in the shop of his older brother Orion. It was here and in the various print shops. Where he worked along the Mississippi and the Ohio rivers for over fifteen years, that he learned the precise use of words as well as many tall tales. During the four years previous to the Civil War, he fulfilled his childhood dream by becoming a pilot of the great side-wheeler river steamers which were as glamorous as they were dangerous. At the outbreak of the Civil War he was sworn into a company of Confederate volunteers by a Mexican War veteran who had no authority. He shortly gave up soldiering and accompanied his brother Orion to Virginia City, Nevada. In the mining camps of the Comstock Lode and the California Sierras, Sam spent more time writing for local newspapers than he did panning for gold. It was here that he first signed a story "Mark Twain," first got himself fired for opposing the favoritism and unnecessary persecutions of the local police force, first found a national audience with his "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County," and first achieved success as a public lecturer as he described his visit to the Sandwich (or Hawaiian) Islands. TWAIN'S OLIVIA In 1867 he boarded the ship Quaker City, commissioned by a newspaper to write a series of travel letters describing the experiences of a group of wealthy Americans making a tour of Europe and the Holy Land. The result was Innocents Abroad. While the ship was anchored in the bay of Smyrna, Twain saw the miniature portrait of Olivia Langdon in the locket of her brother, and on the spot told him she was the woman whom he would love forever and whom he would marty. In 1870 the incredible happened when he married Olivia, the lovely semi-invalid whom he had courted ardently for eighteen months. Olivia had refused him three times in three months. Like the married romances of the Brownings and the Hawthornes, the Twain relationship became one of the true great love stories. Twain was thirty-five, she ten years his junior. Their educational, cultural, financial, and religious backgrounds were diametrical opposites, yet he loved her always and she returned his love. The $120,000 home Twain built for his family in Hartford, Connecticut, was the center of their mutual existence, as were their four children — while they lived. The first child, Langdon Clemens, was almost two when having contracted pneumonia, he died. Of his three daughters, his favorite, sensitive, serious, teasing Susie died of spinal meningitis when she was single and twentyfour. For seven lonely years after his beloved Olivia's death in 1902, his nearest companion was _ his daughter, Jean, an epileptic who died in 1909. Only his Clara, marned to Ossip Gabrielowitsch, an eminent European musician, survived him. It was for his family and for his close friends that Twain was always so tenderly concerned. Each night he read to "Livy" and the daughters what he had written during the day, LESSON DEPARTMENT they being his supreme critics. Deliberately he inserted occasional mild profanities in his sentences, that Livy might cross them out, thus continuing her reforming of her beloved ruffian. In 1895, when he was sixty years old, and over $120,000 in debt, a sum he was not legally but morally obligated to pay, he took Olivia with him despite her frail health as he circled the globe giving lectures to pay off this large obligation. This he accomplished in less than two years' time. The closeness of their souls is apparent in the following letter Twain wrote "Livy" on her fortieth birthday, his fiftieth approaching, and fifteen years of marriage behind them: We have reached another milestone, my darling, & a very very remote one from the place whence we started; but we look back over a pleasant landscape — valleys that are still green, plains that still bear flowers, hills that still sleep in the soft light of that far morning of blessed memory. And here we have company on the journey — ah, such precious company, such inspiring, such lovely & gracious company! & how they lighten the march! Our faces are toward the sunset, now, but these are with us, to hold our hands, & stay our feet, & while they abide, & our old love grows & never diminishes, our march shall still be through flowers & green fields, & the evening light as pleasant as soft morning glow yonder behind (The Love Letters of Mark Twain, Harper & Row, 1949, page 246. Reprinted by permission of the publishers). After Olivia's death no one again called him "Youth," as she had done throughout all their married years, and with justice. The imnocent, eternal boy was now forever homeless, and though after her death he built Stormfield, a great 547 JULY 1963 mansion, he was never to be at home again. 'The inscription he had engraved on her tombstone tells much: Warm summer sun Shine kindly here TWAIN'S HUMOR Basically 'Twain was a_ western Innocent, an enthusiastic idealist brimming with the vital vigor of his moral convictions, always willing to defend them and to oppose greed, officious hypocrisy, and the domination or exploitation of one human being or class by another. Knowing that, effectively used, laughter was the weapon which an opponent found most difficult to counter or vanquish, 'Twain used humor to point up the human _ weaknesses which plague us all, 'Twain included, often hoping that through his sharp satire, individual or social foibles might be revealed for what they were, and corrected or modified. Twain was so acutely aware of the gap between the way things should be and the way they were that for him, the only bearable pathway to endurance and sanity lay through humor. In the following Twainian antic, note how the humor originates in the difference between how things appear and how they really are, as he contrasts his father-in-law's wealth and generosity with his own gratitude but relative poverty. After dispelling many apprehensions about the stability of this fieryheaded, flashy-dressing "Wild Humorist of the Pacific Slope," who brashly aspired to be his son-in-law, Jervis Langdon, a wealthy coal dealer of Elmira, New York, finally offered himself as 'T'wain's friend 548 and character reference and told him to "take the girl." As a wedding present he presented the couple with the deed to a lovely home he had bought them, a complete surprise to Sam Clemens, but not to his wife. 'The couple were taken to the home, told it was theirs; then everyone waited for Sam's reaction. He was much moved, but finally, with tears in his eyes and choking in his voice, he got it out, two or three words at a time: Mr. Landgon, whenever you are in Buffalo, even if it's twice a year, come right up here, and bring your bag with you. You may stay overnight if you want to, and it shan't cost you a cent (TwitcnELL, J. H. "Mark Twain," Harpers, XCII, May 1896, page 821). In his lectures as in his writings, Twain is at his best only when his words are spoken. His highest genius is sharpest in his folktale, story-telling casualness. As a poor substitute for a live Twain lecture, some of his pithy statements from Pudd'nhead Wilson must be permitted to exemplify the dry, often sharp wit which reveals his moral sensitivities as he discerns humanity's failings everywhere about him: 1. It is often the case that the man who can't tell a lie thinks he is the best judge of one. 2. The holy passion of Friendship is of so sweet and steady and loyal and endur ing a nature that it will last through a whole lifetime, if not asked to lend money. Nothing so needs reforming as other people' s habits. He is useless on top of the ground; he ought to be under it, inspiring the cabbages. 5. Man is the Only Animal that blushes. Or needs to. 6. Few of us can stand prosperity. Another man's, I mean. —- 7. True irreverence is disrespect for another man's god. 8. Every one is a moon and has a dark side which he never shows to anybody. G. The very ink with which all history is written is merely fluid prejudice. 10. Don't part with your illusions. When they are gone you may still exist but you have ceased to live (The Portable ~ Mark Twain, Viking Press, 1946, pages 558-567, passim. Reprinted by permission of Harper and Row, Publishers). Twain is the most autobiographical of great American writers; in the same simple, straightforward manner which was ever the central essence of both his manner and his character, he wrote his life and beliefs into his best works. MARK THE DOUBLE TWAIN Thus Theodore Dreiser defined him, and not without a justification that has increased with publication of more of 'T'wain's misanthropic writings which he could not bear to have appear during Ollivia's lifetime or his own. On one hand Twain was the tenderest of men. When he and Jean went to the unoccupied family mansion for a weekend the weather was so chilly that 'Twain went directly to the fireplace to kindle a fire, but when he there heard bird chirpings, and realized a bird had built its nest in the unused chimney, he and Jean gladly froze rather than inconvenience the baby swallows before they could fly. On the other hand, when through the tumultuous decades of his later life he learned of man's hard indifference, then intentional cruelty, toward his fellows, Twain's furious temper and acid satires in that latest phase of his life consumed his greatness, both as man and as literary force. 'The apparent evils arising LESSON DEPARTMENT from slavery during the Reconstruction period disturbed this overly sensitive idealist. The wildfire economic greed and corrupt governmental practices which encouraged them he attacked in The Gilded Age (1873). His contempt of aristocratic privilege, entrenched superstition, and economic exploitation masquerading as religion, he _ attacked in A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (1889). These contain in less powerful form the major issues of his greatest work, Huckleberry Finn (1884). "The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg" (1899) is a bitter attack on a greedy, hypocritical community unjustly smug in_ its _ self-righteousness. "Field's Visit to Heaven," What is Man, The Mysterious Stranger and Letters from Earth continue his attack on mankind as a mean, nasty, vindictive race. These titles reveal the later "double" Twain as a lonely, embittered man in a mechanical, selfish universe of man's own making. But to the end he struggled with his affirming, believing self in conflict with his own darker side, still believing in Tom, Dick, and Harry while damning the human race. Out of this lifelong conflict came The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, one of our greatest revelations of American conscience, which will be the subject of our next lesson. It is justly classed with Innocents Abroad, Roughing It, Old Times on the Mississippi, and The Adventures of Tom Sawyer as one of his "sunny books," which in part it is. Viewed in terms of its great moral core, and in its definition of who man is (rather than who he should be) Huck 549 JULY 1963 Finn fairly predicts "The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg," perhaps the best-known representation of his later works. (See text, pp. 629-651). THE MAN THAT CORRUPTED HADLEYBURG This long short story published some ten years before Twain's death in 1910, exemplifies the power Twain could command once he found a style and a theme which so congenially complement each other. First of all, to watch the ingenious plot draw ever more tightly together the conflicts within 'Twain's characters reminds us how skilled he was at telling a story. Our interest never sags; always Twain has us in suspense, eager to know what comes next. Secondly, the "heard" qualities of his style have never been written down with greater effectiveness. How intimately Twain knew crowd psychology, and with what impish delight he caught the common people's response to public exposure of self-righteousness and dishonesty and greed. The crowd's "Go tell it to the Marines!" and "oh, saw my leg off!" when asked to believe the incredible; its "Hip, lip, hooray!"" and group chant and Mikado travesty, all performed in spontaneous gusto, all reveal the grim irony which humor can achieve when manipulated by a master humorist. Few moral tracts have ever succeeded in making smugness, pretense, self-righteousness, greed, and dishonesty more uncomfortable than does 'T'wain's humorous indignation against such universal human failings as concentrated by the artistry of this story. The underlying theme 550 is that "the weakest of all weak things is a virtue which has not been tested in the fire." Twain invented the community of Hadleyburg, which deserved the jealousy of neighboring communities because, from the cradle, its inhabitants had been taught the principles of honesty. Within its borders honesty was publically praised so solemnly and frequently that no dishonesty existed within its borders, and all its citizens knew it. But their fatal error was to keep themselves and their children honest by never permitting themselves to be tempted. A stranger passing through the town is somehow deeply injured and vows revenge, not just on an individual but on the entire community. He "leads them into temptation" by making it possible for the leading families of the community to anticipate receiving vast wealth — sudden wealth, unearned, and undeserved — if only they will each publicly proclaim a lie which they naively believe can never become public knowledge. But the pretense motivated by greed is exposed to the derisive laughter of the less ostentatious, less fortunate citizens of Hadleyburg in eighteen of the nineteen "first" families. Through a repaid kindness, ironically one most undeserved, the poor bank clerk Richards and his wife are spared the exposure and public humiliation the others receive. But their fate is worse. Having been mistakenly honored as the only honest citizens of Hadleyburg, they cannot face their own consciences, and their own moral guilt finally destroys them, both in their own eyes and in those of their disillusioned friends and neighbors. Here, as in his masterpiece Huckleberry Finn, Twain is great and powerful because he is moral. Here is but further proof of the sensitive, tender, idealist 'T'wain's inability to remain indifferent when he saw his fellow men being cruel or dishonest. It is the identical indignation which accounts for the major difference between T'wain's great book for children, Tom Sawyer and his great book for those who would live more fully and understandingly in a mature world, Huckleberry Finn. LESSON DEPARTMENT Thoughts for Discussion 1. Discuss the following statement by Twain as a bridge between his personal life and his writings, "Be careless in your dress. If you must, but keep a tidy soul." 2. Do you feel that Twain's humor is (a) rarely (b) often (c) usually, a projection of Twain's moral awareness or moral indignation as he observes human weakness? 3. During his lifelong love affair with his Livy she always referred to Twain by her pet name of "Youth." Do you feel such a term to be appropriate or inappropriate, having known 'Twain primarily through his writings? Discuiss. SOCIAL SCIENCE ° Divine Law and Church Government Church Government: Its Organization and Structure Lesson 8 — Priesthood and Church Government Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, October 1963 Objective: 'To help the members of Relief Society understand that Church government is the Priesthood, or the power of God in action. [t [Priesthood] is the government of God, whether on the earth or in the heavens, for it is by that power, agency, or principle that all things are governed on the earth and in the heavens, and by that power that all things are upheld and sustained. It. Governs all things -—— it directs all things — it sustains all things — and has to do with all things that God and truth are associated with. It is the power of God delegated to intelligences in the heavens and to men on the earth (Taytor, Joun: Millennial Star, Vol. IX, page 321). HISTORICAL SETTING AND BACKGROUND 'he Church of Jesus Christ had its formal beginning in this dispensation on the 6th day of April, 1830. The organization was not possible until the authority to act in the name of God had been restored. This authority, designated Priesthood, is the authority that directs, controls, and governs all of creation, both spiritual and material, in the 551 JULY 1963 premortal, mortal, and post-mortal existence including all activities essential thereto. Iw Nacrew Is the Gate. The Priesthood is the power by which are carried out all ordinances essential to salvation and exaltation. It is the authority to speak for God upon the earth. It is a commission of leadership in his kingdom. It is the power through which the ills of society may be corrected. The planets are in orbit by this power and they do not get in each other's way. The same authority has provided a correct pattern for human association under which people can live without getting in each other's way and live peaceably. With Priesthood leadership there is only one way, the right way. There are no short cuts, for strait is the gate and narrow is the way which leads to exaltation. The human element may make a difference in the time element, but it cannot change the route. It is the way of divine law expressed in Church government and organization. 2. Divine Direction. Joseph Smith received a personal manifestation of God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ. Jesus informed Joscph of his life's mission. This was the beginning of the formal instruction from authorized agents, personages holding the Priesthood, that prepared Joseph to carry out his mission, which led directly to the restoration of the Priesthood and the organization of the Church. 3. Discipline Essential to Growth. The idea of organization did not come prematurely to the Prophet Joseph. One of the first things he had to do was to develop personal 552 control, disciplining himself so that he could direct his abilities toward the fulfillment of his calling. He had to develop faith and the courage to act. Then we see him in a struggle with the power of evil. All through his short life he was confronted with temptation. But personal control (discipline), a clear vision of eternal values, and a definite purpose, together with the sustaining influence of the Spirit of God, made it possible for him to accomplish his mission. In 1829 the Lord said to the Prophet "And you must wait yet a little while, for ye are not yet ordained" (D & C 5:17). RESTORATION OF THE PRIESTHOOD While translating The Book of Mormon, Joseph and Oliver had noted the repeated reference to baptism for the remission of sins. "This caused them to marvel, for the doctrine of baptism was misunderstood in the world" (Smiru, JosEpH FrevpING: Essentials in Church History, page 67). 1. The Appearance of John the Baptist. On the 15th of May, 1820, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery retired to the woods and asked the Lord for light on the important subject of baptism. In response to this, they testified to the fact that John the Baptist, acting under the direction of Peter, James, and John bestowed upon them the Aaronic Priesthood. Laying his hands upon their heads, he said: Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the Gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and _ this shall never be taken again from the earth, ~ until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness (DHC 1:39). John the Baptist then instructed them to baptize each other and confer upon each other the Aaronic Priesthood. Thus the Aaronic Priesthood began to function upon the earth again. 'There was no living mortal who held the keys of this Priesthood, therefore it was necessary to call upon the person who held the keys of the dispensation of the meridian of times to confer this authority on Joseph and Oliver. It is important to note that John the Baptist did for them only that which they could not do for themselves. He gave them the authority, they baptized each other, and then teconferred the Priesthood. John the Baptist told Joseph and Oliver that the Melchizedek Priesthood would soon be conferred upon them and they were to be the first and second elders, respectively, of the Church. 2. The Line of Authority Established. While the exact date was not recorded, it was only a short time after the Aaronic Priesthood was restored that Peter, James, and John appeared to Joseph and Oliver and conferred upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood with the commission to act in the name of God. This commission is attested to in a revelation given August 1830, when the Lord in reference to his coming said "... Marvel not, for the hour cometh that I will drink of the fruit of the vine with' you on the earth " (D &C27:6). Then the revelation records the names of many of the great prophets who would be present. LESSON DEPARTMENT. Also with Peter, and James, and John, whom I have sent unto you, by whom I have ordained you and confirmed you to be apostles, and especial witnesses of my name, and bear the keys of your ministry and of the same things which I revealed unto them; Unto whom I have committed the keys of my kingdom, and a dispensation of the gospel for the last times; and for the fulness of times... (D & C 27:12-13). In this lesson we are not simply recording an historical event. That has been properly done in the records of the Church. We are concerned with the fact that the Priesthood was*restored and became the basis for Church government and organization. 'This is a fact of great importance to each person who becomes a member of this Church. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was not founded on protests against the purported mistakes of an existing, dominant church. It was founded through direct instruction from Christ himself, who declared that his Church did not then exist on the earth. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was founded on revelation and continues to operate on this vital principle. The authority to organize and direct the Church is part of the dynamic nature of the Priesthood. MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD UNIFIES LEADERSHIP The Priesthood is called the Melchizedek Priesthood,... Because Melchizedek was such a great high priest. Before his day it was called the Holy Priesthood after the Order of the Son of God. But out of respect or reverence to the name of the Supreme Being, to avoid the too frequent repetition of his name, they, the church, in 553 lat wm JULY 1963 ancient days, called that priesthood after Melchizedek, or the Melchizedek Priesthood (D & C 107:2-4). All of the power and authority that God ever delegated to his representatives on this earth is included in the Melchizedek Priesthood. "All other authorities or offices in the church are appendages to this priesthood" (Ibid., verse 5). It is significant to note that the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood was under the direction of Peter, James, and John who held the Melchizedek Priesthood. 1. Aaronic (Levitical) Priesthood an Appendage. From an article on Priesthood prepared by the Prophet Joseph Smith we read: There are two Priesthoods spoken of in the Scriptures, viz., the Melchisedek and the Aaronic or Levitical. Although there are two Priesthoods, yet the Melchisedek Priesthood comprehends — the Aaronic or Levitical Priesthood, and is the grand head, and holds the highest authority which pertains to the Priesthood, and the keys of the Kingdom of God in all ages of the world to the latest posterity on the earth, and is the channel through which all knowledge, doctrine, the plan. Of salvation, and every important matter is revealed from heaven (DHC IV:207). Aaron, a brother of Moses and a Levite, with his four sons, were elected first to hold the Lesser Priesthood and to minister in the Priest's office. (Wuptsor: Priesthood and Church Government, page 15.) Later the Lord chose all the tribe of Levi to hold the Lesser Priesthood and to be the acting Priesthood in Israel. "And I, behold, I have taken the Levites from among the children of Israel instead of all the firstborn... Of Israel..." (Numbers 3:12). 554 PRIESTHOOD A SACRED CALLING We should not lose sight of the fact that every office and calling in the Priesthood, both Aaronic and Melchizedek, is sacred and important to the work of the Lord. President Joseph F. Smith makes the following statement: I believe it to be the duty of the Church to recognize and acknowledge every man who holds an official position in it, in his sphere and in his calling. I hold to the doctrine that the duty of a teacher is as sacred as the duty of an apostle, in the sphere in which he is called to act, and that every member of the Church is as much in duty bound to honor the teacher who visits him in his home, as he is to honor the office and counsel of the presiding quorum of the Church. They all have the Priesthood; they are all acting in their callings, and they are all essential in their places, because the Lord has appointed them and set them in his Church. We cannot ignore them; or, if we do, the sin will be upon our heads (Gospel Doctrine 1949 Edition, pp. 163-164). The distinction, such as it is, between the Aaronic and Levitical Priesthood is shown in the following excerpt: Levites Held Aaronic Priesthood. The Aaronic Priesthood is divided into the Aaronic and the Levitical, yet it is but one priesthood. 'This is merely a matter of designating certain duties within the priesthood. The sons of Aaron, who presided in the Aaronic order, were spoken of as holding the Aaronic Priesthood; and the sons of Levi, who were not sons of Aaron, were spoken of as the Levites. They held the Aaronic Priesthood but served under, or in a lesser capacity, than the sons of Aaron. (Smiru, JosepH FIELDlNG: Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. III, page 86. See also pages 112-115 for "Levitical and Aaronic Duties Anciently.'') DIVISIONS OF THE PRIESTHOOD It has been pointed out that there are two divisions of the Priesthood, Aaronic and Melchizedek. We should be aware of the fact that it is incorrect to refer to the Priesthood of a deacon or elder. These titles, deacon, priest, elder, etc., refer to the office and calling of an individual in the Priesthood. 1. Recognized Offices in the Divisions. The offices in the 'Aaronic Priesthood are: deacon, teacher, priest, and bishop who is a literal descendant of Aaron. (At the present time there are no bishops who are literal descendants of Aaron.) The bishop is the president and presides over the Aaronic Priesthood on the ward level, but his office, to which he has been appointed as a high priest by the First Presidency, cannot be rightfully referred to as an office in the Aaronic Priesthood, unless he should hold that office as a literal descendant of Aaron. The revelation from the Lord explains specifically the manner in which a high priest of the Melchizedek Priesthood may be called to officiate in the office of a bishop. No man has a legal nght to this office, to hold the keys of this priesthood, except he be a literal descendant of Aaron. But as a high priest of the Melchizedek Priesthood has authority to officiate in all the lesser offices, he may officiate in the office of bishop when no literal descendant of Aaron can be found, provided he is called and set apart and ordained unto this power by the hands of the Presidency of the Melchizedek Priesthood (D & C 107:16-17). "And a_ literal descendant of. Aaron, also, must be designated bv this Presidency [First Presidency| and found worthy, and anointed, and ordained under the hands of this Presidency, otherwise they are t LESSON DEPARTMENT not legally authorized to officiate in their priesthood" (D & C 68:20; see also Section 107:68-70,76. ) The offices in the Melchizedek Priesthood are President or Presidency of the High Priesthood (First Presidency, D & C 107:9, 79), apostle, patriarch, high priest, seventy, and elder. 2. Right to Function in Church Government. Has been ordained a deacon, elder, or high priest does not authorize him to function in the government or ordinance work of the Church. The ordination gives him the power to act, but the proper authority must designate the area of action, and commission him to perform. For example, there are many high priests in a ward but only one, designated by the First Presidency and commissioned by their representative, can be the bishop of the ward at one time. By call from the bishop each high priest can be given an assignment in the ward organization. In like manner the bishop may call deacons, teachers, priests, elders, or seventies to carry out the duties and functions of the Church government in the ward. PRIESTHOOD CALLING A DISTINCTION To receive an office or calling in the Priesthood is an honor, a blessing, an opportunity, and a responsibility. When the true value of such a calling is realized and appreciated by the receiver, he will recognize that he has, received the greatest mark of distinction available to man. In relation to understanding this value and learning to honor this privilege, the family has the major opportunity to make sure that all 555 The fact that one. JULY 1963 of its members understand the value of the Priesthood and how to honor it. The influence of the wife and mother cannot be over emphasized. She must have a knowledge and appreciation of the Priesthood if she is to help her family members understand and honor the Priesthood. One of the purposes of the present course is to help Relief Society members gain this knowledge and appreciation. Like so many other vital lessons, the value and significance of the Priesthood must be developed in the family situation. The fundamental impressions of the good life come to the child in the home environment from the most important people in their lives, their loved ones. PREPARATION FOR PRIESTHOOD RESPONSIBILITY Sometimes parents become concerned about the age of their sons and express this concern to the bishop as follows: "My son is twelve years old. He is old enough to be a deacon," or it may be that he ls twenty and old enough to be an elder. The concern is mainly about age. Parents should really be concerned about his knowledge of the gospel, his understanding of life's great values and his readiness to assume the responsibilities of the Priesthood. A thoughtful, well-informed mother will find ways to help prepare her sons to receive this great blessing worthily and _ intelligently. She will show by her conduct that she honors the Priesthood and will make sure that her planning makes it easy and natural for the members of her family to honor it. If both parents were truly interested 556 in their son's preparation for Priesthood responsibility there would be fewer members of the Aaronic Priesthood over twenty-one and more active Melchizedek Priesthood holders in the Church today. When the Prophet Joseph Smith called the women together, March 17, 1842, to organize the Relief Society and said, "I will organize the sisters under the priesthood after a pattern of the priesthood," he was thinking of far greater things than the relief from physical want or mental anguish. The "pattern of the priesthood" had a more significant and distinctive meaning. The objectives for the Relief Society were the same objectives set up for Priesthood quorums. (See The Relief Society Magazine, January 1962, page 66.) 'Therefore, their purpose and interests must be the same. Inasmuch as the proper function of the Priesthood is essential to the accomplishment of the purpose and objective referred to above, the knowledge of the Priesthood and a dedication to its proper function is an equal responsibility and opportunity for the man and woman in each family unit in the Church. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What essential event had to take place before the Church could be ane Why?. Why was it necessary for Peter, James, and John to come in person to restore the Melchizedek Priesthood? 3. In what way was the Prophet Joseph Smith subjected to the temptations of Lucifer? 4. Why did not John the Baptist baptize Joseph and Oliver? 5. What should be the determining factors in bestowing any office of the Priesthood upon an individual? 6. Why should women understand the Priesthood and its functions? 7. Give an example of a way in which a wife and mother could encourage her husband and sons to honor the Priesthood. References Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 20, 107. Wintsor, Joun A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 9, 10, 11, a3. Smit, JosepH Frevpinc: Essentials in Church History, Chapter 9. Documentary History of the Church, Vol. 1, Chapter 5. Pilgrimage Catherine B. Bowles The brook in crystal light Across the meadow sings, Marking vale and valley With the pattern that it brings — Borders the fields with flowers, Touches the bank with green, On the velvet edges The buttercups are seen. The stream of life flows on Over places smooth or steep, Soothing the heavy laden, Helping the wandering sheep, Bringing peace where sorrow Burdens the aching soul — Ever leading onward To our heavenly goal. SINGING MOTHERS DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 Salt Lake City 11, Utah above. Name THREE PART CHORAL MUSIC FOR ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen COME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen GIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR POOR—Berlin GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner HEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn 25 LET NOT YOUR SONG END—Cain LORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Madsen LORD IS MY SHEPHERD—Smart LORD'S PRAYER—Robertson.. O LOVE THAT WILT NOT LET ME GO—Schubert.20 OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert.20 OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25.20.20 25 Pererrrer errr).20 22 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval E. Ist South Please send the music CL] On Approval [) Charge | { \ indicated | [] Money Enclosed ' 15 E. Ist South? Salt Lake City 11, Utah) e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 0..000 -- 35 150 to 300 miles _..002.00000 0. 39 300 to 600 miles 0202. -45 5 600 to 1000 miles 0.0 54 1000 to 1400 miles _ 00..0000000000.64 1400 to 1800 miles 0000000000.. 76 Over 1800 miles 000 022.220 ee..87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOUR Including Church historical places, Williamsburg; Louisville, Kentucky; Washington, D. C.; New York; Boston; Montreal; Niagara Falls; Broadway Show BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY Leaves August 17 LABOR DAY TOURS Bryce, Zion, Grand Canyon and Glen Canyon Flaming Gorge Dam Area ALASKA TOUR in September HAWAIIAN TOUR in October Aloha Week — all four islands ESTHER JAMES TOURS a: 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL-9-8051 558 CHOSCHOHSSHOHSOESHSOSHESEHHSHSCOSHHEHOHEHEHHEE Money emergencies come in all sizes! — BE PREPARED WITH A SAVINGS ACCOUNT AT ZIONS SAVINGS & LOAN No matter how small — or how large unexpected financial emergencies may be, your savings at Zions Savings & Loan will supply the necessary money you'll need to tide you over. Start saving regularly now and discover how fast your savings will grow, helped along by generous dividends twice a year. Savings deposited by July 31 earn from July 1! 0 | Dividends on 1 % per year savings paid 2 current rate every year compounded for 80 years! Semi-annually 80th Anniversary Utah's first savings & loan ass'n. ZIONS SAVINGS and Loan Association 33 E. LST SOUTH - SALT LAKE CITY open Fridays 'til 6:30 p. M. 4901 SOUTH STATE - MURRAY open Saturdays til noon CHORAL MUSIC Singing Mothers MIA Ward and Stake Choirs ORGAN & PIANO BOOKS Sacred Secular Standard — Popular ELSON'S DICTIONARY Pocket..2 0 -cecccseneeeneeenee75c¢ Complete _ ---$2.50 DIRECTOR BATONS. 25c to $2.10 METRONOMES $14.95 For All Your Musical Needs Gero IDAHO FALLS, IDAHO Fast Service — Our Motto! HAWAIIAN TOURS Throughout Summer Leaving July 6 & 26 NORTHWESTERN TOUR in July SAN FRANCISCO TOUR in July HILL CUMORAH TOUR July-August EUROPE in August Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Travel With Us and Visit THE HISTORIC EASTERN CITIES of the United States and View the Hill Cumorah Pageant Personally Escorted by Dr. T. Edgar Lyon HOLY LAND TOUR October Ist Call or Write Murdock Travel Inc. 14 South Main Street 328-3161 "Your Experienced Travel Counselor'' GOLD MEDALLION A wonderful new way to live UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Buy now from your dealer '559 One Hundred Four One Hundred Ninety-four Ninety-three Ninety-one Poem Vesta N. Fairbairn A poem Is emotion Distilled through the mind's sieve And captured in a silver net Of words. BOOKS to promote family togetherness —— =a x — COM PANY Deseret Boo 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA (Perfect for Use in Conjunction with BYU's ""Education Week"? ) 1. Building a Home to Last Forever by Carolyn Eyring Miner A charming and organized mother of eight children provides readers with a down-to-earth guide for building eternal family relationships. Mrs. Miner is a member of the YWMIA General Board, has a master's degree, and presently teaches creative writing at Highland High School in Salt Lake City. $1.75 7 Family Leadership — Inspired Counsel for Parents compiled by V. Dallas Merrell A volume full of wise counsel from the leaders of the LDS Church both past and present. Here is inspired counsel for those seeking to strengthen family ties. Mr. Merrell is chairman of Brigham Young University "Education Week" programs and is presently studying for a Ph. D. Degree in group dynamics and leadership. A a a Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah | would like to receive book (s) number __ -.. For which | enclose (cheque, cash, money) the full en ee ee ere en eee ee rr oy Residents of Utah add 3% sales tax. a iy, ' — nA» & byecl CLL — oe 5 S LY F R 0) 7 FN Your fruit will FRE ¢ taste better © when you use pure, 4 %: % sparkling-white OR COMMERCIALLY "aise crystal of U and I Sugar is six-way PAC K E [)... Quality tested to bring out the natural: sweet flavor of everything it touches especially fruit. There's no better buy than pure U and I. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO., SALT LAKE CITY 
