Birthday Congratulations to President Joseph Fielding Smith July 1, 1970

On his ninety-fourth birthday, the sisterhood of the Church extend
congratulations to President Joseph Fielding Smith. His words
of counsel and of praise have uplifted the hearts of many as he has
expressed his love for Relief Society and his high regard for the
women of the Church from his position as an advisor to Relief
Society for many years. We feel to express gratitude for the
prophet who dwells among us and who has our welfare always at
heart. Much guidance can be obtained from reading and rereading
his words of inspiration delivered at so many Relief Society Annual
Conferences.

In reference to compassionate service he has said: "The good that
has been accomplished in the care of the poor, care of the sick and
the afflicted, and those who are in physical, mental, or spiritual
need, will never be correctly known. This, however, need not be our
concern. The main interest lies in the fact that all of this has been
accomplished through the spirit of love in accordance with the true
spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is clear to see that without this
wonderful organization, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints never could have been completely organized." ("Purpose of
Relief Society," The , , p. 4.)

On another occasion, President Smith encouraged the sisters
to speak out, saying: "It isn't necessary today for our sisters to be
silent. They can be called upon to teach the gospel of Jesus Christ,
to bear their testimonies and bear witness of the truth in our sacrament
meetings or other meetings of the Church. . . . The Lord
through his wisdom has called upon our sisters to be aids to the
Priesthood. . . . We could not get along without this organization."
("Relief Society — An Aid to the Priesthood," The , , p. 4.)

President Smith has often quoted from the Prophet Joseph in
extolling the virtues and outlining the duties of Relief Society. He
has reminded the sisters that they are to behave kindly and charitably
toward their husbands, that they are to remain pure and innocent
in the eyes of God, and live up to the expectations the brethren
have placed on this Society since the time of its divinely inspired organization
in Nauvoo.

We would do well to follow his advice and counsel, to remember
that his words are spoken from a heart filled with love and respect
for womanhood, and always to be thankful that there is an inspired
prophet on the earth today.

May the faith and prayers of Relief Society sisters throughout
the world be manifest in birthday wishes to President Smith, and
may our Heavenly Father continue to bless him with the health and
strength to preside over the affairs of his kingdom.

Franklin D. Richards Women's Work in Building The Kingdom

In asking me to prepare this article, Sister Marianne C. Sharp, Editor of The Magazine, wrote, "Relief Society sisters have expressed a need for counsel and direction regarding women's work in building the Kingdom. In the midst of the complexities and problems of our present earthly environment, some words of helpfulness from you would be greatly appreciated." Recently, erence assignments, I was disquote from her; informative letter: In a recent Relief Society meeting we were discussing the lesson, "Work—A Road to Personal Fulfillment," and the subject began to elicit some personal reflections. Women's Work in Building The Kingdom

We can be grateful that throughout the ages God has counseled His people and helped them to solve their problems, and His counsel is as applicable to successful homemaking as to other aspects of life. It is interesting to note that as God has admonished His people through His Prophets, two words have frequently appeared: order and diligence.

And order; for it is not requisite that he should be diligent, that thereby he might win the prize; therefore, all things must be done in order." (Mosiah 4:27. Italics added.)

In connection with the matter we are discussing, the immediate prize is successful homemaking. In this dispensation through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord has told us that His house "is a house of order... and not a house of confusion." (D&C 132:8. Italics added.) Today things to do, so many crowding us. In this environment are key words to success and happiness regardless of the activity we are engaged in.

In meeting leaders, I frequently ask them what their greatest needs are. Almost invariably they reply that among their greatest needs is better organization of their time and work, or, in effect, more order and diligence. And it is not infrequent that the question, "Don't be too busy to meditate and when the answer comes have the courage to execute prayer," arises.

And to be most effective, meditation requires that time be regularly set aside to consider the things that seem to be required of you. Many times you find you have more to do than you can do in the time available. To develop an orderly pattern, consider the things facing you, analyze their importance and list them in the order of their importance. Give the things of prime importance first priority and develop a plan to accomplish them.

Planning involves the development of effective ways which will save time and simplify the operation involved. Prayer is always advisable in planning the effective use of time.

My friend who wrote me regarding successful homemaking continued in her letter: "Your success formula of 'plan, simplify, and be strong' is very applicable." Plan: This does not entail long hours of paper work. It can be anything from a small notebook written in at night before bedtime to a mimeographed sheet with spaces to be filled in by each given hour. But it must have a place for short-term and long-term goals. The average mother has more than enough time, but kitchen counter tops are often the worst "catch-alls." Remove everything but those items that are in constant use.

Simplify: After you make your plan, simplify your home surroundings. Don't let important situations or interruptions prevent you from following your plan. I am not being unkind to say that if you can't talk on the phone now but will call back later, do so. However, it is wise to keep a plan flexible enough that when your husband calls with an unexpected appointment to lunch or an afternoon at the beach elsewhere, you can accept it graciously and enjoy the time with him.

A plan is not meant for work schedules only; plan into your day time for other activities such as dressmaking, cooking, and sports. Plan some physical activity, if only calisthenics. In building the Kingdom of God, when called upon to accept an assignment in the Church, which is an important part of our lives, we should select first things to do and work out a plan to accomplish them.

This develops orderly habits that make it possible properly to care for our families and have time to serve in building the Kingdom of God. (D&C 107:99) He has counseled us to seek out of the best books words of wisdom and to seek learning even by study and faith. (D&C 88:118.) Study should be rated among those things of first importance. In organizing our time and work, time should be regularly allotted for personal study.

In accepting opportunities to serve in the Church not only do we contribute to the welfare of others but we set a proper example for our children which will be a powerful influence for good in their lives. By selecting first things to do and working out a plan to do them first, we have taken an important step toward accomplishing them. This is where diligence plays a big part.

To be diligent in our work means to be effective and not just busy. When the Lord counseled us to perform our assignments in all diligence, He meant whether it was convenient for us or not. To perform our assignments diligently, sacrifice of our time, talents, and means is frequently required but we know that sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven. We are thus entitled to the blessings which are predicated upon obedience to this principle of sacrifice.

Being diligent also requires faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and in ourselves, and making up our minds to be orderly and diligent is a good part of developing faith in ourselves. Even though our assignments seem difficult, as we develop our faith and persevere, we are able to achieve our righteous objectives.