EDITORIAL / Two Who Care 
'Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this,
To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world.'
'I, Love one another; as I have loved you.'
'".. Pray for them which despitefully use you."
'".. Go to the house of mourning."
'"Judge not, that ye be not judged."'
These and many other admonitory words of Holy Writ pertain to the calling of a visiting teacher. The attributes of loving, cherishing, and comforting permeate the visiting teacher's work. It is the very essence of charity—the motto of Relief Society. It is a privilege to be found worthy to be a visiting teacher and a blessed calling which requires personal preparation in the realms of Spirituality, physical effort, intellectual activity, and charitableness. An opportunity is extended to two visiting teachers to enter about eight designated homes each month as emissaries of the Lord to the sisters in the home. Before beginning the calls it is well to go over in one's mind the conditions in each home which one may expect to find and resolve and plan with the companion visiting teacher the development of the message in a particular home, where this is felt to be desirable, and how one may make the sister in the home feel that she is cherished—that two visiting teachers do care. In one home may be found loneliness, in another heartache, or there may be sickness. A young mother may be overburdened, or sorrow may have entered a home. Moreover the needs may shift as the months go by. A fervent prayer by visiting teachers humbly offered in behalf of the great visiting teaching work to be accomplished.

Volume Number 7 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, Secretary-Treasurer

502 Lord in inspiration to the visiting teachers and in following the spirit of the sisters comes, The more receptive visiting teachers are making their visits, the more they will be prepared to 80 the second mission and the more blessings Will their labors Preliminary to the visit in the home has been enhanced by attendance at the visiting teacher meeting Which has fortified the visiting teachers through the instruction which have been received from the their president and the discussion which has been held on the visiting teacher message itself This meeting, has further strengthened the visiting teachers; messengers of spirituality and meaning. And in the way to add meaningful comments to ordinary situations one how to telephone or call before the next visit to see what sister Allen is hearing from her son in the army? Or sister Ose need be dry to the doctor? Sister Carr overburdened with her children and young children? The visiting teachers will confidently and promptly report such situations and queries Of the chief society president I assume the further direction under the inspiration of her call. Visiting teachers are not left alone to carry out their callings. They care for the sisters at home and the president oversees and cares for the visiting teachers he Lord has provided a sisterly way that goes Should be uplifted and who specially care for aftercare over his daughters a society sister that the relief sustained in the knowledge her and she are two alone Marian R Boyer Threne J Poulsen Lucile P Peterson Marjorie M Reeve Lila B Walch Elaine B Curtis Ada J Ones Lenore C Gundersen Elma R West Helen G Kienitz Marjorie C Pingree Leanor J Brown Winters Arlene C Dedeking Reba O Al Wilkinson Edythe K Watson Buehne Hellen N Love

503 Norma A Aia

Long afterward when I remembered Ronna's doll, it was as if I stood again beside my little sister gazing up at it, beautiful, new, beyond reach. My sister must have been four or five that summer, I two years older, and our playmate, Ronna, just between. Ronna was a chunky little girl full of giggles. We had a jolly time together, except when she was determined to dress and undress our darlings. Of course we wanted to share our dolls, we told each other. But how could we stand by and watch them suffer at her unskilled hands? "Ronna, don't be so rough with Crin and Toodles!" I told her one day. "Mama said they might come unjointed if you pull their arms way out like that!" The corners of Ronna's mouth set firmly into her cheeks. "Not either rough!" she retorted. She pulled Toodles' arm from the shoulder socket until the elastic showed, then let it snap back into the pink sleeve. "You are, too!" I cried. "Let me take her." Ronna pulled away, clutching my doll. "Ill put her in the buggy," she said, but her brown eyes still snapped with indignation. My sister had grabbed Crin and scuttled to the safety of the back porch. Crin and Toodles were fairly large dolls. They were well made, the shoulder and hip joints fitted firmly into sockets and were threaded with strong elastic, which was then tied in the middle of the bodies. The wigs were of real hair sewed to a cloth foundation and then glued to the heads. Long lashes enhanced the opening-and-closing eyes. When Santa Y foodles, a brunette Was Tessedein pink Both had dainty lace-trimmed Underwear conomies Went into their Purchase Price, hen Ronna Came to play, She always told Mama how long she could Stay. Then Play with Crin announced one Ronna's Dolt "Don't make her cry," I said "Mama doesn't like quarreling. And you know you don't have to 80 home yet." "Well, then, let me play with Toodles," 1 won't undress her. But What will I play with?" Smooth head. When I went back to the yard Unfastening the back. "Ronna! Stop! Her head off!"' buggy, and half expecting to See Toodles' loosened Pillow.

 sister offered. She rummaged in the buggy and handed me the large handkerchief. "Won't you let me play any more?" asked Ronna, her mouth drooping. "You can help wheel the buggy," I said. We started along the path, wheeling the dolls to sleep. After a few moments I said, "Ronna, why don't you bring your doll sometimes? You don't have to play with ours all the time." Ronna shook her head until her short dark hair flew about her face. "No! I don't want to!" she sald. My sister had reached the front gate and turned back. "Here comes Mama with the play dinner!" she cried. Mama hurried across the yard, carrying a wide shallow pan. She whisked a white dish towel over the upturned wooden box and set the pan on it. "Well, now, I guess you girls can set your dishes around," she said. Then she went back to the house with her quick, light step, toward whatever task she had left unfinished. We lifted out a plate heaped with jelly sandwiches, whole slices cut into fourths, the syrup pitcher filled with cold milk, and the play dishes. "This is my favorite jelly," I said, taking a bite. "We helped Mama pick the wild currants." "Mine, too," said Ronna, licking the red sweet from a corner of her mouth. "Here come the birds!" I said. "Mama said to eat your crusts!" my sister reminded me. "TI do, most of the time," I answered, tossing one to the hovering birds. 506 "Pour some milk into my cup," said my sister, holding it out. "You can drink one of these little cupfuls in one swallow," said Ronna, giggling. The birds cheeped and fluttered for tidbits, keeping their distance at the edge of the picnic place. We emptied and refilled the cups. The pile of sandwiches disappeared. When Mama came back for the pan and the dishes she said, "It's been an hour, Ronna. But do come again." Sometimes, as on that day, we walked part way with her, trundling the small-wheeled buggies over the dirt sidewalk. On the way we discussed our dolls' ailments, their colds and sore throats, their aches, and their occasional naughtiness.

My sister and I didn't go to Ronna's to play very often. When we did, we stayed out in the back yard making mud pies, patting them flat with sticks, and leaving them in the sun to dry. A week or two later when we were there my _ sister _ said, "Ronna, haven't you got a doll?" "Sure I have!" said Ronna. "I got her for Christmas!" "Where is it? Can we see it?" I asked. "T'll ask my mother." Ronna hurried to the house.

In a few minutes she opened the back door and beckoned. With careful feet we walked onto the shining floor of the clean kitchen. Her mother said some word of greeting and stood looking down at us, her hands folded. For the first time that day I was conscious of my tousled hair and my dusty shoes. Ronna said, "Come on into the bedroom." She led the way and pointed to a shelf. There was the doll, smiling out from the slim box edged with paper lace, her beauty shielded by a lid of transparent plastic. "Oh it's beautiful!" "It's brand-new!" Ronna beamed. She stood on a stool and lifted the box down. Then she took the lid off and we gazed at the smooth, red-gold curls, the shimmering yellow silk dress, the white slippers and stockings. Ronna lifted the skirt, revealing filmy underwear. "Her eyes open and close, just like your dolls," she said. She tipped the box. Dark lashes curled softly on pink cheeks, like those of any fairy princess. "Real hair, too," Ronna said. "You can touch her, if you want to." Our fingers were strangely clumsy, fingering the curls, stroking the yellow silk. After a few minutes Ronna put the lid back on the box, climbed off the stool, and restored it to the shelf. "Come on," she said. We followed her to the back yard. "Ronna, don't you ever play with your doll?" I asked. "Oh, sure, I hold the box, like today," she answered. "But don't you undress her?" I wanted to know. "Or feed her?" asked my sister, thinking, perhaps, of the many times milk had left a sticky trail down Crin's stomach. Ronna bent her head until her dark hair half hid her face. She poked one of the mud pies with the toe of her shoe. "No," she said slowly, "that would spoil her. My mother said so. I have to keep her in the box to keep her nice. Because she cost so much, I guess." "Your doll is sure pretty. Just like new," I said. "We have to go now. Goodbye, Ronna." All the way home our words exploded like popcorn. "Wouldn't it be awful to have a doll you couldn't even play with!" "Do you think it's jointed?" "It was still fastened in the box!" "It's sure pretty, though." "No prettier than Crin and Toodles when they were new." We hurried through the front hall to the bedroom and found our dolls still taking their naps. We snatched them from sleep with kisses. The aura of love that had veiled a dwindling of perfection was pierced by sudden awareness. We smoothed their dresses and combed their matted hair. We searched the bottoms of the buggies and the toy box for their shoes and stockings and bonnets. 

Reassuring embrace. "Maybe Santa will bring new wigs for Christmas," I ventured. "The hall, 'J Can stay an hour if I had just put Toodles in the buggy." "All right. If you won't undo her," Ronna said. "If you won't play with her!" I cried. I glared into yes dark with anger, at tears Spilling onto flushed cheeks, "I can't play with my doll! And you know it!" Ronna shouted. "See if Mama is making the jelly sandwiches," she said. By the time we got back, "Mama's making them. She said to take the buggies out under the tree and eat out there," my sister reported. "Ronna had gone home." But when Mama Set the pan down, there were three cups in it. "I brought the big cups today," Mama told us, smiling all around. "They don't spill as easily as the dolly cups. Now, set your picnic out." Then she hurried back to the house. We began eating in silence, glancing sideways at each other as we took small bites. "Your mother makes good sandwiches," said Ronna, at last. Jelly squirted at the corners of her mouth. "White mustache!" said Ronna, giggling. Somehow our angry feelings disappeared with the sweet jelly, the fresh bread, and cold milk. "Here come the birds," said my sister. "They can have my crusts," I said, tossing one recklessly. "Your hair won't be curly," said Ronna. "Won't be anyway," I agreed. Breezes shook the locust tree and a few pods fell on our heads. Giggles mingled with the chirps of the darting birds. When Mama came back to get the pan, she said, "It's been an hour, Ronna. But do come again." A long sigh slipped from between Ronna's lips. "Oh, I will!" She promised.