picking potawatomies. These are the small crimson wild plums that grow along the ditch banks of the fields and Mabel Luke Anderson and picking them is one of the delightful fall excursions we enjoy. After the first Indian summer days, when all nature is touched with golds and reds, the children start asking when we are going picking potawatomies (even the young ones on whose lips the big word is almost trapped). Last week we did go, but too soon. The plums need to be nipped with the frost to make them sweeter. It was not a trip in vain, though, for we saw the reapers getting in the last of the crops, and harvest fields awaiting the reapers, and heard the "fields of barley sigh like the sea and flow in gentle waves beneath the wind." On such occasions one can try to explain simply the age-old cycle of harvest from the plowing of the land to the gathering of the grains. Meadows were dappled with placid cattle and all contributed to serenity.

Autumn has a gentleness all its own. This was one of the golden days, a lovely October day of leisurely mellow sunshine. As we wandered homeward laden with wild spoils of the harvest, the sun was sinking below clouds tinged with rose and violet, the haze was rising over the fields, the tang of frost was in the air, and the scent of smoldering leaves.

We agreed that the charm of October was special. I think the impact of autumn color against the blue arch of the sky cannot be matched at any other time of the year. Walking in the crisp country air, in quiet lanes, is like a balm after fever. There was a lovely silence about everything, but if one looked closely and listened there were live things about. As we rustled through the carpet of fallen leaves, a tiny field mouse went scurrying, Sparrows and starlings cried their objection to our sharing their feast.

I remembered that poets tell of "birds singing from autumnal trees." We were lucky enough to see a squirrel fussily harvesting its winter's food. Gossamer threads clung to our faces and clothes. Picking Potawatomies

The afternoon was a blaze of color, the gray hills which form the backdrops to our valley were splashed with gold and green, russet and saffron. The fields were splendid from palest tans and yellows to rich brown. Even the weeds along the roadsides were colorful as if to atone for their useless life. On the plum trees, bright crimson fruit, touched with gold, was hanging among the foliage that the fingers of autumn were already painting yellow and bronze. As we walked among the trees, leaf after leaf lost its hold and fell slowly at our feet, unless occasionally whirled away by a playful breeze. Our baskets and buckets were soon filled to the brim with the tempting fruit. We knew why they were also called "squirt" plums. We could not resist one now and then and as we bit on the tough skin, the delectable juice squirted into our mouths. It was rewarding to put our hands up under the leaves and get several of the plump plums, offering a worthwhile vintage to a jellyintent housewife. I knew that soon they would be made into glowing jars of jams and jelly, with that tangy, tantalizing taste that only the wild fruits of the harvest produce.

As we went home carrying the precious hoard, I recalled stories I had heard from pioneer lore of how abundantly the wild fruit provided special treats for the pioneers who had to live off the land. Autumn glory surely each year as we leave it we may forget its loveliness, and must go through the same process of wonderment, days of warm, mellow sunshine, the rich coloring of hill and field and meadow, the misty haze and the gorgeous sunsets.

One of the best days of my autumn is when we gather the wild plums.