Living Morally in a Changing World
Lesson 1: Morality and the Individual
Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, 

OBJECTIVE: To show how an understanding of morality makes for an enlightened regard for the individual in our social relationships.

Most of us think that morality is the same as chastity. With a little more thought, we might add the idea of honesty, obedience to law, or dealing justly. But important as these concepts are, they are not the whole of morality. Basically, morality is the love of what is right and good. We are moral to the extent that we show that love in our treatment of other people.

A moral person has the proper regard for the individual. To be moral is to value human life. The scriptures teach that "the worth of souls is great in the sight of God." (D&C 18:10.) At the Creation, God had such high regard for man that he "crowned him with glory and honour" and gave him "dominion over the works" (Ps. 8:5-6) of his hands. Christ's teachings are filled with examples of his regard for people of all ethnic and national origins, poor and rich people, sick people and well people. His regard for people is the essence of his gospel. Eternal life, "the greatest of all the gifts of God" (D&C 14:7), is the prize he would have all his children win. Those winning this prize are to share with Christ all the Father has.

Recent space explorations have excited the imagination of the world regarding man's accomplishments and possibilities. In the ways of the world, they tell us about the importance of man and represent a "giant leap" forward for the mind and spirit of mankind. For example, man need not accept blindly and on faith that the earth is a special place of habitation. The moon walkers have made it clear that the earth is a diadem and with its spectrum of light and color a most inviting planet, especially when viewed by space travelers from the emptiness and blackness of space. The moon may "rule the night" (Gen. 1:16), but man walked and lived on the moon for several hours only because the earth had equipped him to live there. The earth which was created with "plenty and to spare," provided the air, the water, and the food. The act of creation itself (recorded in the first chapter of Genesis), the world as it is being rediscovered from space, and the fact that God trusted man sufficiently to give him "dominion... over every living thing" and the responsibility to "replenish the earth" as he used its resources (Gen. 1:28) lend credence to the importance of man in the plan of God, and reaffirm what the faithful have always known about the worth and value of human personality.

Hopefully, such secular events as space exploration will help man to realize his genius and the importance God attaches to the work of man, the "pearl" of his creation.

Question for Discussion: Inasmuch as we believe in the importance and worth of people, why is it so difficult to accept them as they are?

To value people truly and to hold them in esteem—to cherish them for what they are—it is necessary to recognize and accept differences as well as likenesses. It is sometimes more comfortable to work, play, and otherwise associate only with those who look, feel, think, and act as we do. We sometimes criticize, judge, find fault, and even condemn those who are different from ourselves. This is not moral conduct, for the Lord enjoins us to "judge not, that ye be not judged." (Matt. 7:1.) The Lord judges people according to their righteousness, not according to their superficial characteristics.

When the Prophet Samuel chose the boy David above his older brothers to be anointed king of Israel, the Lord said, "Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature... For the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart." (1 Sam. 16:7.) Only the Lord can look in a man's heart; only the Lord can judge him truly.

Therefore, we are warned, "I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men." (D&C 64:10.) The Lord may choose an individual or a people to help carry out his purposes in the earth, but all his countless and infinitely varied children are alike to him in their claim upon his love, "and he inviteth them all to come unto him and partake of his goodness; and he denieth none that come unto him, black and white, bond and free, male and female; and he remembereth the heathen; and all are alike unto God, both Jew and Gentile." (2 Ne. 26:33.) But God does not expect his children to be "alike" in the sense that they must all be the same. We should expect people to be different, if we accept the principle of free agency. Among the three and a half billion people living on earth today, no two are the same. Not even identical twins are identical. Each person has his own body structure, physiology, chemistry, and ways of behaving. Differences so vast that they almost defy description help to explain such everyday puzzles as why one child eats heartily and another picks at his food, or why members of the ward have such different ideas about the architecture for a new chapel. To be specific, the nervous system, closely connected with personality, is subject to variations. Investigations, which admittedly are not complete, show that "warm spots," "cold spots," and "pain spots" on the skin are different for each individual. In a recent study, the distribution of pain spots for twenty-one healthy young adults was shown to have a high degree of variation. Under controlled test conditions the right hand of one young man A tested in a particular area was found to be "highly sensitive over a seven percent area, while a second person B showed 100 percent "highly sensitive" areas. On A's hand 49 percent of the area was free of pain. (Roger J. Williams, "The Biological Approach to the Study of Personality," Theories of Psychopathology, ed. Theodore Milton [Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Co., 1967], pp. 23-24.) This simple difference of sensitivity to pain may explain why some highly sensitive mothers overprotect their children, while others, less sensitive, may be indifferent to minor injuries to their children. Mothers may mistakenly believe that their children feel or fail to feel pain as they do. Studies of personality yield even wider variations among individuals. No two people react to stress in the same manner. Some appear to thrive on daily crises, while others confronted with these same crises become ill. Differences within the same family are well known. One child accepts responsibility easily and anticipates new challenges with pleasure. Avoidance of responsibility may be the typical reaction of another child in the same family. Family home evenings can be a source of satisfaction to some families because of the enthusiasm and preparations of a particular child who loves this part of the Church program.

Question for Discussion: Why is an individual enhanced in your eyes by knowing some special quality about him—a talent, ability, skill, hope, ambition, or desire—for his family or friends, for example?

Differences among people surely add to the interest, richness, beauty, and challenges of life. These differences can also pose very serious problems unless we learn to recognize and understand them. We need to accept differences and to affirm individuality. Few disasters are more tragic than those that result when a parent has a preconceived notion of what his child 551 should be like.

Dr. Konopka read the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith, uttered on the occasion of the organization of the Relief Society: "This is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads." After reading these words and with the experience of an hour with President Spafford just ended, Dr. Konopka stated that, in her extensive travels in America and Europe as she has been engaged in humanitarian service, this was the first time she had ever seen relief and beauty combined.

In giving compassionate service, women of the Relief Society have an opportunity to "reap blessings" as they cause the poor and needy "to rejoice." Social relations are a science as well as an art, and can be greatly enhanced by a true consideration for every human being, regardless of age, physical condition, or educational status. For service to be compassionate, the particular needs, wants, and aspirations of those served must ever be uppermost in the minds and hearts of those who would be the dispensers of service.

An adult loses the respect of a child if he classifies that child along with other children. Neighbors, listening and hearing and being responsive to what they hear, promote neighborliness and improve the quality of life in the community. When the heavenly messengers appeared to Joseph Smith in the sacred grove, the name "Joseph" was spoken. God, the Father of us all, individualized the fourteen-year-old boy.

All men, women, and children like to be identified and mentioned by name whenever possible, regardless of their church affiliation, ethnic origin, or their economic level in society. They are responsive to those who individualize them and accept them as they are. A non-judgmental, accepting approach eases tension, particularly in work with people who have failed, either in their own or others' expectations of themselves.

Criticizing these people for their failures by word or action only results in estrangement, closing the door to any further good work that might be accomplished. Criticism and censure create barriers to understanding and are likely to be autobiographical, revealing more about the critic than about his intended victim. The psychological illusion of righteousness, called self-righteousness, can be created by criticism, for in this way in our own eyes we appear to be better followers that unless their righteousness exceeded that of the Scribes and Pharisees they would "in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven." (Matt. 5:20.)

Individualization, acceptance, and a non-judgmental approach can do much to facilitate and guide in everyday relationships.

Paul reminds us of the importance of charity, "which charity is love." (2 Ne. 26:30.)

Question for Discussion: In what way can compassionate service by members of the Relief Society be more fully realized by the concepts of individualization, acceptance, and a non-judgmental attitude?

Morality is basically a warm regard for every human being. It delights in the miracle of creation and the infinite richness of society and people in all walks of life. The moral life truly makes sense to all people whose concern is to serve their fellowmen.