[Vol23 | March 1936 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: How Can We Strengthen Lyman]
How Can We Strengthen Our Homes?
By Counselor Amy Brown Lyman OR convenience and clarity this subject will be presented under three topics—Preparation for Home Life and Parenthood; Organization of Home Life; Ideals and Standards; and this is done without regard to sequence in subject matter and with a realization that topics necessarily overlap.
Preparation for Home Life and Parenthood: In any discussion of The Home and Home Life, we naturally go back to some of the fundamental elements that go to make up the ideal home. We are reminded of what Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes said—that in order to have an ideal home and ideal home life and the right kind of children, we must start with the great-grandparents. He placed great stress upon the influence of heredity and background and upon the importance of proper mating. Dr. Edward T.
Devine holds that if the home is to fulfil its proper function it must meet certain minimum specifications, material and moral, and of these specifications he says the fundamental ones, from the child's point of view, are "that the home should be founded on true love and marriage; that the parents should be healthy in mind and body, or at the very least free from transmissible defects and disease; that the father should be able and willing to provide an income, and that the mother should be able to manage a home and have the intelligence and disposition to give children the care which they need." It is being realized more and more that young men and women should have special training and education for home life and parenthood; that these subjects are far more important than Greek, Latin or mathematics. And it is gratifying that in some of our schools and colleges today courses are being given in The Family and Family Life. Miss Johanna Colcord, a student of family life, maintains that much of the family trouble today resulting in divorce and desertion ls due to the fact that boys are not trained to work and make a living, and girls are not trained to be home-makers and mothers.
Organization of Home Life: Our attention in this article is especially directed to our question, which amplified is—What can Relief Society women today do to strengthen their homes which are already long established and which have shown some weak spots? We cannot begin over again.
Perhaps there is a way by which we can improve and strengthen them if we but give sufficient thought to the matter.
Perhaps a survey of our own homes by ourselves, based on certain accepted standards and ideals, some of which we shall attempt to enumerate, might reveal some latent potential strength which we possess, as well as our weakness, and point the way to correction and improvement.
Stocktaking is as valuable in personal and family affairs, and may be as profitable, as stock-taking in business.
Social economists tell us, in the first place, that a home should cost no more than double the yearly incoine, or the income for two to three years, never to exceed three years: that people who go beyond this are sure to meet financial difficulties, unless rescued by a streak of good luck, 142 which is rare and not to be depended upon.
They tell us also that home life should be organized and regulated just as a business is organized and regulated; that income and expenditure should be formulated into a budget arranged by the family jointly—a budget which includes all of the receipts and disbursements. For either parent to have secret receipts and disbursements is not conducive to harmony and real efficiency. If there is a regular income, and it can be arranged, the wife, as a partner, should have an allowance for which she is responsible; each child should also have a definite allowance, however small.
There should be a division of work and responsibility in the home; a lively sense of obligation; willing cooperation and reciprocation.
There should be a sharing of advantages and sacrifices. In home operation there should be a definite weekly schedule, with certain days for certain work; also a definite daily schedule, a regular hour for doing the various daily tasks, regular hours for arising in the morning and for going to bed at night and for meals.
There should be a time for every task and every task accomplished in its time— a place for everything and everything in its place.
Ideals and Standards: High standards of home life and high ideals are a great protection and a powerful aid toward righteous and successful living.
They help to regulate our lives and our behavior, to furnish motives, to stimulate ambition, to govern our choices and decisions.
They help us to resist temptation, evil and wrong-doing.
Home standards are first set by the new home-makers or newlyweds, and depend, ina large measure, on their background and training.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
They are based largely on the standards of the homes which the young people have just left. As time goes on they may be raised and improved, or again, unless great care is exercised, they may be lowered. If high standards are set and maintained in the home and riveted in the minds and lives of children, they are apt to remain as a guide and influence throughout life.
They will form the strongest weapon of defense, and will become as mighty armor in the battle of life. Latter-day Saints accept all of those excellent ideals and standards of living as defined and set up by - social economists, educators and moralists, and considered by them as fundamental to the highest physical, mental and moral growth.
This position is supported by the Thirteenth Article of Faith—"We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to ALL MEN: indeed we may say that we follow the admonition of Paul: We believe all things, we hope all things, we have endured many things, and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy we seek after these things."
They believe that homes should be clean, well kept and sanitary; that there should be the proper kind of food for growth and sustenance; that there should be opportunity for physcial and mental health, for education, character development, recreation, moral and spiritual growth.
They foster family solidarity, family pride and righteous ambition.
They encourage cooperation and reciprocation in the home, also good ethics and good behavior.
They strive to minimize friction, and lessen family tensions. But in addition to all this Latter-day Saints have the restored HOW CAN WE STRENGTHEN OUR HOMES Gospel with its comprehensive plan of life and salvation as a guide to their feet and a light to their paths. Latter-day Saints agree with sociologists that the family is the most important of the social institutions.
They believe, in addition, that it is a most sacred and holy institution and that family life is the most important of all human relationships.
This conclusion is based upon their belief in pre-existence, in a future life, in the immortality of the spirit, and in the eternal and everlasting union of husbands and wives and of parents and their children. The Latter-day Saint standard of marriage is the Temple marriage ceremony.
Simple and without ostentation, it is dignified, impressive, and comprehensive. In connection with it a vow of chastity is taken which is a glorious consecration, and a powerful influence in preserving the high single standard of morality for which the church has always strongly stood and which generally has resulted in good morals and in happy marriages.
Tithing is accepted by Latter-day Saints as a law of God to man. To observe the law is to be obedient to our Heavenly Father. The law contains promises of rewards, but the greatest blessing is no doubt the satisfaction which comes from obedience to a law of God. 145
Important among the guides to right living is the Word of Wisdom, a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith in the interest of temporal salvation.
This document, which emphasizes the proper care of the body, condemns tobacco and alcohol, advises against the use of hot drinks and other stimulating foods, and promises unusual blessings to those who observe it.
