[Vol23 | March 1936 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: A Singing Brown]
A Singing Heart (Eva Willes Wangsgard) By Ada Hurst Brown "O, give me the magic of singing heart, The music of rythmical words, The wonder that quickens the tears to start For joy at the song of the birds! "O, give me the keenness of fairy sight, For flowers have hearts I would see, A spirit that follows a bird in his flight, Communes with the soul of a tree! "OQ, give me the sweetness that clovers yield, The gladness of butterfly wings, For I would carry the message afield Of joy in all beautiful things." HIS, the key poem of Eva Willes Wangsgard's book of verse, "Singing Hearts," is a fitting key to the author's personality as well as to her merry, cheerful poems. She, indeed, has the wishedfor "magic of singing heart" and "keenness of fairy sight.' She takes such delight in composing her verses that it is no wonder that they are so delightful to read. The story of Mrs. Wangsgard's success is almost like a fairy tale.
Until two years ago, she had no idea that she could write poetry. She had been too busy being wife, housekeeper, and school teacher, as well as bringing two boys and a girl to splendid young manhood and womanhood to think of doing any writing. It was after married teachers were ruled out of Ogden City schools and she stayed at home with her housework, that the poems began to come "thick and fast, from nowhere," she says. At first she was almost annoyed. She had planned on a nice, long rest after her years in the school room, but these poems would not let her rest. 'hey tugged at her constantly. If she relaxed they came faster than ever, as many as four and five in one day. It was as if something had been bottled up inside her all these years; something that must have immediate expression.
Still she did not think consciously of becoming a writer; she simply expressed the things she felt. Her earlier poems were merry, happy little verses for children, personifying natural phenomena. The very first of these was a swing song, inspired by neighboring children singing in a swing.
Some of these verses came complete with joyous melodies, while she was scrubbing floors or ironing. The next poems that came were adult love poems. She had never used a typewriter, but she obtained one now, and began typing her work. Her first poem for grown-ups sold to the Improvement Era; her second to Canadian Bookman. She sent things to other magazines, many of which were not accepted, but she almost invariably received a short note from the editors to whom she sent them. By this time Mrs.
Wangsgard decided that it was not written that she should rest, and she went to work in earnest. She worked harder than she had ever done in her life, studying technique and spending infinite hours revising her poems. "I can carry them around in my head and polish them while I polish the silver,' she says. A remarkable memory enables her to give, without notice, any one of her more than two hundred poems.
192 A WRITER'S magazine for which Mrs.
Wangsgard subscribed, carried a lst of poetry magazines that she thought would make a good proving ground. She picked out ten poems that seemed suitable for certain magazines, and seven out of the ten were accepted. Of the three rejections, one said the poem was too long for their purposes, and another said they bought only from their subscribers.
Since then she has had poems published in many prominent magazines including Expression, Cycle, Sonnet Sequences, All Story, Zion's Herald, Young People's Leader, Lutheran Boys and Girls, Driftwind, Bozart and Contemporary Verse, American Author, and Portland Oregonian, besides all the local magazines and newspapers. P until May, 1934, Mrs.
Wangsgard worked ceaselessly, but aimlessly, not knowing if she would ever do anything worthwhile with her writing.
Then one morning as she awoke she said, "I know what the name of my book is to be." "Oh, are you going to write a book?" asked her husband. "T guess I am," she replied, "because the title is to be 'Singing Hearts',' and she recited the keypoem to him. Now came the task of selecting and publishing the eighty-one poems that make up the book. The love poems were eliminated because they didn't seem to fit in. Dr. Driggs, who wrote the foreword for "Singing Hearts," suggested that she also leave out her children's poems and make another book of them.
This she did, calling it "When One is Small."
This book has not yet been published. The problem of finding a publisher for her book confronted her next.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
She thought she would probably have to send it out several times, and she would start near home. She sent the manuscript to the Caxton Printers, Ltd., Caldwell, Idaho, and they accepted it, publishing it in September, 1935, with a cover that Mrs.
Wangsgard designed herself. EVA WILLES WANGSGARD is of true pioneer stock. Her _ grandmother, Melissa Lott Smith, came to Utah with the second company of pioneers in September of 1847. Her grandfather, Ira Jones Willes, entered Utah by way of California with the disbanded Mormon Battalion in 1848. His brother Sydney was at Sutter's mill before the presence of gold there was generally known, and picked up a nugget from the mill race.
