Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1895 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" SPEAK NO ILL: If we will institute a thorough and candid investigation of ourselves, there is no doubt but the results will prove profitable; they may reveal to our view some traits in our character that we were not aware of, and impress us with the necessity of a speedy reformation, and if so we will feel more lenient towards the failings of others, and not so anxious to make them known, but will "speak of all the best we can." —L. M. W. TO THE YOUTH OF THE LAND: And oh, ye youth of this much favored land, think not to make the excuse of ignorance. It will no longer be accepted. This is the golden age of opportunity; hold not back and think there is nothing left for you to do; rouse yourselves and look around you; there are fresh hills for you to climb; there are new discoveries for you to make; there is work for you to do. —Phoebe C. Young THE YEAR IS NEW Dearest; the year is new, And the roses silent sleep, But the hearts that are most true All their vows of love will keep. Though the roses fade and wither, Love survives the stormy weather —Edson B. Russell RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN STAR VALLEY (WYOMING): Home industry, in the way of carding, spinning, knitting, and weaving was encouraged... And ideas advanced in relation to the planting and caring for trees and small fruits adapted to our climate.... Several looms are in operation, and the hum of the oldfashioned spinning wheel may be heard in a number of our homes. The strawberry, a plant that thrives and yields well, is being cultivated.... President Kittie E. Dixon encouraged the sisters to continue their labors, and strive to meet. All the requirements made of them, whether spiritual or temporal. —Lucy E. Call, Sec. A WOMAN LAWYER: Miss Phoebe Couzins of St. Louis, distinguished lawyer and lecturer, and at one time United States Marshal of the Eastern District of Missouri (serving out her father's term after his decease), has been for some weeks in our city at the Templeton Hotel.... After Miss Couzins graduated from the high school of her native city, she chose the law as a profession, her application for admission to the Washington University in St. Louis in 1869 was granted without a dissenting voice. She has been admitted to practice in all the courts of Missouri, the United States District Court, and in the courts of Kansas and Utah; she was the first woman in the United States appointed to a federal executive office. " —Editorial Page 28 BUIZABETH, Oueen Mother of England, visited in the United States and Canada in November. This was the Queen Mother's second visit to Washington, D. C., where she was entertained by President and Mrs. Eisenhower. Among other honors for Elizabeth was a dinner sponsored by the EnglishSpeaking Union in New York City, at which she was presented a check for $433,000 to set up a scholarship fund in memory of King George VI. AJKUMARI AMRIT KAUR, Minister for Health in the Indian government, recently visited America as a guest of the Rockefeller Foundation. A devout disciple of Mahatma Ghandi, and his secretary for fifteen years, she has been president of the All-India Women's Conference and has f-esided over the World Health A>: embly, and has acted as a delegate to UNESCO in London and Paris. 'Two of her published books are To Women and Challenge to Women. OMEN are taking a more prominent part in_ politics, and their acceptance as public officials was exemplified in the November elections. All of the eleven incumbents of the House of Representatives were re-elected, and two others were added—Mrs. Iris Blitch of Georgia and Mrs. Edith Green from Oregon. Margaret Chase Smith of Maine is back in the Sen