Infantile Paralysis and the March of Dimes Basil O'Connor President, The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis T will be a great day for everyone when the world can be told that Dr. Salk's trial vaccine actually protects against polio. We hope that day arrives early in 1955. 'The theme of the 1955 March of Dimes reflects expansion for the fight against polio in the longed-for realm of prevention. On the other hand, we must face the possibility that an inconclusive report may be issued by Dr. Thomas Francis, Jr. Of the University of Michigan, who is responsible for determining whether or not the vaccine is effective. As hopeful as this is, the fact remains we have no proven vaccine, yet. Millions more must be spent on the Salk vaccine studies. At the same time, our responsibilities continue for children and adults crippled by polio. Either way, our problems and our responsibilities multiply. Even if the vaccine is declared highly effective, we cannot see the end of polio in 1955 or 1956—or, for that matter, in 1957. Certainly all of the more than 50,000,000 young Americans under eighteen years of age (the most polio-susceptible group) cannot possibly be vaccinated in time to prevent thousands of new attacks in the years immediately ahead. What I'm getting at is that the news from Michigan will have little immediate effect on the huge job of mending lives, refining preventive techniques, and training professionals. 'That is why I am appealing again for your support this coming January. The crippled child who is cut off from her playmates lives only half-a-life. 'The disabled wage-earner needs more than just plain courage to carry on. Only with expert treatment, good equipment, and understanding care can the stricken overcome crushing handicaps. These are the things money can buy. Your continued help in supporting the 1955 March of Dimes, January 3-31, will most certainly evoke the gratitude of those born too soon to benefit from any polio vaccine, as well as those who look to the March of Dimes to protect them from polio in the future. Before the SS; torm Zara Sabin Even this cold, gray day is beautiful— The upturned sod where Jate the farmer plowed, Now locked to earth by winter's icy breath, Is edged with flowers of frost. A pewter cloud Hangs low on the horizon, while a crow, Scarce darker than the limb on which it sits, Awaits the snow. Page 33 Bob Bishop Page 3 YOSEMITE VALLEY, CALIFORNIA