Teachers' Topic for October Reading "Yea, seek you out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning even by study and also by faith."?Doc. And Cov. Sec. 88-118. "Search the Scriptures for in them ye think ye have eternal life.'?John 5:59. A. Proper supervision of children's reading by parents. B. Occasional inventory of home library for purpose of eliminating undesirable books. C. We recommend reading of the Scriptures on home evening or Sabbath evenings in family circle. Mothers Know! Mothers know the value of helpful discipline. Undoubtedly that's why the demand of the University of Utah for seriousmindedness on the part of its students is so widely appreciated. Young men and young women must work if they remain at this great State School. Wondrous opportunity for training is afforded! Almost every branch of learning may be followed here. Mothers will appreciate especially the Home Economics department under the ab'e direction of Prof. Rose Homer Widtsoe. The School of Education is training the teachers of Utah. No examination of University graduates is retuired by the State for teacher certification. Your boys and girls will find a real opportunity for achievement at this institution. Arrange now for them to attend. REGISTRATION SEPT. 25-26-27 For additional Information address the President University of Utah SALT LAKE CITY A BEET SUGAR FROSTING 2 cups of beet sugar. 1 cup of water. Place on stove and boil until syrup drops from the spoon. Have whites of two eggs whipped until the bowl in which they are prepared can be turned ame down and yet the eggs remain in the bowl. Pour the boiling hot syrup into the egg whites and whip until cool. Spread on cake. A GOOD PLAIN CAKE Whip together 1 cup of beet sugar. 4 cup of butter. The yolks of 2 eggs left from the frosting just made. 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour. 3 tspn. Baking powder. 1 tspn. Flavoring. Sift flour four times, the last time put in the baking 'powder, fold in the other ingredients. Bake in layers or in large cake. Frost with beet sugar frosting. Fresh coconut may be sprinkled between and on top of cake which makes a pleasing addition. Beet sugar makes a most delicious table syrup. 2 cups water 4 cups beet sugar. Boil until it begins to spin a rather heavy drop from the spoon; put in small piece of butter. Flavor with maple flavoring which can be purchased at the corner grocery store. Put in jar and use on waffles, pancakes or hot biscuits. DENSITY OF SYRUPS 1 pt. Beet sugar to 1 gill water makes syrup 40? density. 1 pt. Beet sugar to 1 pint water makes syrup 32? density. 1 pt. Beet sugar to 14 pints water makes syrup 24? density. 1 pt. Beet sugar to 114 pints water makes syrup 17? density. 1 pt. Beet sugar to 2 pints water makes syrup 14? density. For preserving cherries, strawberries, etc., use a syrup of 40? density, For preserving currants, peaches, plums and quince, etc., use a density of from 32? to 24? density. For canning blackberries, cherries, peaches, pears, plums raspberries use a syrup of 17? to 14? density. 'Syrups for use in canning are made by boiling beet sugar with water at 212 degrees Fahrenheit. All impurities which rise to the top should be carefully removed with a spoon until the syrup appears clear and transparent. Western canners usually use 1 1/2 pints of sugar to 1 pint of water, while the Eastern canners use 1 pint of sugar to 1 1/2 pints of water. This accounts for the greater popularity of the Western fruits. Compare the Pages of Che Deseret News with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense?And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY" Temple Block Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS, REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and_Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and 'the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this BUREAU OF INFORMATION Salt Lake City ?? occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921.: , Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underware Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful nose for wear Box of Three Pate Silk Semi-Fashioned, ait colors, beautiful and durable Rey eka es $1.50 Box of Three Pairs.. $4.25 Sik with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair... $1.65 Box of Three Pairs $4.75 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors Per Pair $1.05 Holeproof Box of Three Pair$3.00 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID A Book of "Poems "The Beautiful Valley of Utah" By Mrs. J. Long, 50c per copy., Eureka, Utah, Box 129. When ordering mention . $1.50 Delivered postpaid to your home. Printed with your name and address in fine blue plate Gothic.. (Not more than 3 lines). Send Money with order. Write plainly. Universal ation Supply Co. 315?24th Street OGDEN, UTAH They?re the BEST PORK and BEANS Pierce's Pork and Beans, always ready, insure a healthful and nourishing meal. Everlastingly backed by THE UTAH CANNING CO., OGDEN, UTAH iG JZ No Difference Between Refined Beet and Refined Cane Sugar The highly trained chemist with all his elaborate laboratory equipment is not able to distinguish between BEET and ~CANE Sugar. BEET SUGAR produced in Utah and Idaho is of the highest developed refined process, which removes all impurities and yields an unexcelled quality of pure, white, fine, clean BEET SUGAR. BEET SUGAR can be used for all purposes with entire success. Europeans, with a reputation for making the finest of preserves and confections, prefer BEET SUGAR. Keep your money in circulation at home. Patronize a great HOME INDUSTRY?one that gives employment to thousands and insures a profitable crop for the farmers. BUY BEET SUGAR. JOHN SCOWCROFTS SONS BLUE PINE OLIVE OIL is derived from the choicest French ripe olives. It is full flavor and full strength, in containers that keep it sweet and pure. The best oil you can buy for salads and dressings. Equally dependable and good for all other olive oil uses. Demand the Blue Pine brand. Other BLUE PINE products SCOWCROFT produce Mention RELEF