LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in January. THE GARDEN OF EDEN. (Read carefully, either before or after this article, chapters four, five, and six of the Book of Moses, in the Pearl of Great Price, last edition.) The Garden of Eden was the first home of Mother Eve and the cradle of the race. Of the place itself we do not know as much as we would like to know, but of what went on there and in the neighbourhood we know considerable, thanks to modern revelation. From the first century of our era until very recent times many attempts have been made to locate exactly the Garden of Eden, and doubtless these attempts would still be made but for the fact that few people nowadays, outside the "Mormon" Church, accept the biblical account as describing the real origin of the human family. "Two opinions deserving most attention," says Edersheim, "are those which place Eden either near the northern highlands of Armenia, or else far south in the neighborhood of the Persian Gulf." And the Century Dictionary says "it is generally agreed that the description in Genesis alludes to the Mesopotamian valley." These opinions, of course, are only conjectural, an attempt to find a place somewhere on our globe, usually in the eastern hemisphere, that corresponds with the description in the Book of Genesis. It is told there that "a river went out of Eden to water the garden and from thence it was parted and became four parts." Then the names of these are given. Two of these streams are generally believed to be the Euphrates and the Tigris, and one ingenious writer has identified the other two with two Babylonian canals! And so guesses pile up on one another, till the plain truth in the matter is as hard to find as a boy's hat just before school time. "Mormonism," however, in quarters where it is accepted, has upset the old theories by an explanation that is altogether unique and original. It is, that the Garden of Eden was on the American continent, not in Asia at all. And it bases this information on a revelation of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith. 
 "Adam-ondi-Ahman," says the revelation, given in May, 1838, "at a place called Spring Hill," in Daviess county, Missouri, "because it is the place where Adam shall come to visit his people, or the Ancient of Days shall sit, as spoken of by Daniel the prophet." Another revelation to the Prophet (Doctrine and Covenants, section 107:53) declares that "three years previous to the death of Adam, he called Seth, Enos, Cainan, Mahalaleel, Jared, Enoch, and Methuselah, who were all high priests, with the residue of his posterity who were righteous, into the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman and there bestowed upon them his last blessing." This place "is located immediately on the north side of Grand river, in Daviess county, Missouri, about twenty-five miles north of Far West. It is situated on an elevated spot of ground, which renders the place as healthful as any part of the United States, and overlooking the river and the country round about, it is certainly a beautiful location." From the phrase, "the land of Adam-ondi-Ahman," one would infer that the entire country where the Saints had settled in Missouri was either Eden or territory very close to Eden. Aside from these revelations that establish definitely the location of the Garden of Eden, why may not the first home of our racial parents have been in America? It is true that we have always looked upon the cradle of the race as having been in the eastern hemisphere. But that is no reason for believing that it was there. It is equally true that when the race became conscious, so far as we know it from profane records, it found itself in the eastern hemisphere. But Noah's flood, if the biblical explanation be accepted at all, would account for this fact. A few years ago I ran upon an article by a non-"Mormon" in which it was argued that, assuming that the ocean currents were the same then as they are now and counting back from Mount Ararat where the ark alighted, that vessel must have begun its drifting somewhere in the state of Missouri. As for the alleged similarity between any particular part of the eastern hemisphere and the description of Eden in Genesis, that is a mere accident, because, again if the Bible narrative be held to, the surface of the earth has undergone many and great alterations since Adam and Eve dwelt near the Garden, not only in the days of the flood but afterward as well for it would seem from the scriptural account that at the creation the land was in one place and the waters all in one body. We are told in Genesis that "in the days of Peleg the earth was divided." At all events, the Latter-day Saints believe they have sufficient grounds for thinking of America as the cradle of the race, of Missouri as "the place where Adam dwelt." As to the conditions under which life went on for Adam and Eve and their immediate posterity, we are left in utter darkness. Almost every question we may ask of that remote past comes echoing back to us as empty as when it left our lips. We are told specifically that after the pair had been expelled from the Garden "Adam began to till the earth and to have dominion over all the beasts of the field and to eat his bread by the sweat of his brow," and that "Eve, his wife, did labor with him." And we are informed that later on these two had children, who, when they grew up, divided "two and two in the land," that they tilled the ground and tended their flocks, and that they in turn begat sons and daughters. "Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground." But what kind of clothes did they wear? At first, we are told, while the original pair were in the Garden, "they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons." Doubtless after the expulsion they had other clothes ? but what? We are told nothing about the nature, the texture, and the form of them. What kind of vegetables and fruits did they cultivate and eat? With what implements did they turn over the earth's crust? Again, what manner of social enjoyments did they have? When did they form themselves first into societies and what kind were these, barring that secret society of which the Pearl of Great Price tells us? All these and a thousand other questions crowd upon us as we think of our first common parents. But we have few satisfying answers. QUESTIONS. 1. Where is the Garden of Eden generally supposed to have been located? 2. On what ground is that statement of the location based? 3. Where do the Latter-day Saints place the Garden of Eden? 4. On what grounds do they base the belief? 5. What arguments drawn from reason may be urged for the probability of this latter claim? 6. What kind of shelter do you suppose our first parents had? 7. What kinds of food do you imagine they ate? 8. What kind of clothing do you believe they wore after the expulsion? 9. What social enjoyments? 10. What did they know, as compared with us today, do you think?