[Vol42 | August 1955 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Williamson]
[The Cat Rug Elizabeth Williamson]

Page 518 Jinny and I were keeping watch over Homer—I was ten that summer—when, suddenly, 'Theodore appeared. "We need Nig," he said. Nig was his spotted pony. To my knowledge no one ever rode Nig but Theodore, except once. That was the time when Homer had fallen from the stump and sprained his ankle. We had been caught there beside the river and night had been falling. Finally Jinny had tricked the pony into thinking it was Theodore on his back. And in that way we had brought Homer and ourselves home. "Please let us go back with you," we begged now. Just to walk beside Theodore was Jinny's and my idea of heaven. Theodore eyed us. 'Theodore was about fourteen. He had thick fair hair, very straight, and blue eyes. He wore high top boots and strode. "What about him?" He meant his brother, Homer, of course. When Uncle Stanley came to help Father, he had to bring Homer. The moment he arrived he handed Homer over to Father. Father gave him to Mother. Mother passed him on to me. The truth was, of course, that no one wanted to watch Homer. And that was because, while he was six years old, he was always falling and bawling. Theodore now eyed Homer sternly. "Wipe your nose," he ordered. Although every morning Aunt Mae, Homer's mother, gave Homer a clean, white handkerchief, he didn't use it. THE LAST CLEARING "With your handkerchief." "It's too clean," Homer said. "He's always bawling," Theodore told me. I couldn't go without Homer. He was my job. "I never bawl unless I'm hoort," Homer protested. "That's right," I said. "Homer never does baw] unless he's hurt." "And then everybody comes running,' 'Theodore said, his eyes smiling a little. "Because they know he's hurt. He's not like the shepherd boy who called "Wolf so often no one believed him. Homer never cries unless he's hurt."

Cat Rug Elizabeth Williamson Tr tug, hooked for the cats, was made from discarded and worn summer cotton dresses, with the strips cut on the straight of the materials. The design was adapted from an old Peruvian weaving, depicting the cat family. The colors of the cat rug are dark green for the cat, faded yellow background, and brown border. Often we hesitate to make articles of our own because we feel we are not original or creative. If we must copy, it is better to go to the finest art sources to find traditional designs which have been handed down to us. We may alter them to suit the occasion, change the color to harmonize with our surroundings, but we will have a finished product that is in good design. If a public library is not available, we can turn to motifs in our own homes such as a detail from a piece of old lace, a fragment of early glass, or heirloom quilts. Wa tchers Kate Richards [. Is really as it should be, that some are blessed with gypsy heels, and must wander here and there, seeking out new places, new people, new adventures in fields of progress and advancement, both public and private. But there are, also, the stay-at-homes, who are the watchers of the fire, the keepers of the fortress of home, and who are forever awaiting the returnings—a thankless trust, seldom spoken of, lauded, or praised. But these watchers, too, are needed, and each will recognize her call and know her destiny. From Milton, a great English poet, comes the line: "They also serve who only stand and wait." Page 557 Srouble Lucille R. Taylor peur is like a stone wall that cannot be moved by worry or wishing; nor will it be moved by self-pity. For others have been stopped by walls just as thick and just as high. Trouble must be faced by ourselves. It is within us to move these stones that wall ~ us in, keeping us moored to the shore, when our souls tug to be set free to sail unbounded upon a calmer sea. The wall cannot be crumpled into nothingness at our feet by aimlessly bumping our heads against the stones; nor by adding stone upon stone cemented together with pessimistic despair. The only tools that will wear away the stones are faith, hope, cheerfulness, and perseverance, used in the hands of an undaunted toiler. Then if, for some unknown reason, the wall still stands — it is time to work harder than before — giving our patience a new coat of cheerfulness and hope. Soon we will find the stones have worn thin, and are colored with faith and love that will enable us to see through the wall. It is then our souls are free to rise above the pile of stone and rock that has held us bound. YOUR FUTURE IS OUR YOU GET THE BEST FOR THE LEAST WHEN YOU TRAVEL WITH CONCERN VIDA FOX CLAWSON, II x sawn ine ties are among the best in the nation. Training is offered in eight basic Write or Phone: schools in preparing for a successful career. We trai tudents t k livVIDA FOX CLAWSON genie wSEKple. 966 East South Temple Registration: Fall Quarter —: SEPTEMBER 23-24, 1955 Salt Lake City, Utah Write for catalog and information. Phone: 4-2017 Utah State Agricultural College LOGAN, UTAH Page 558 A Song of the Fleart Elsie