[Vol42 | August 1955 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
[Literature: Stevenson's Prose Briant S. Jacobs]

provide for her. 'The American Senora explains that she is well satisfied with the household help she already has. However, she hesitates and wonders if, perhaps, there is not some way that she can help Graciela. She learns that the mother and daughter had known Mormon missionaries. HE girl's erudition surprised me. She knew three foreign languages and the history and literature of those countries almost as well as she knew her own Mexican history. 'There was a mature intelligence behind her childish front. "What are you prepared to do, or what did Senora Urbina plan for you when you finished school?" "She wanted me to be able to earn my living in a better way than my mother. I was to be one of the new women of Mexico."" Her face was very grave. "How do you propose to do it?" My eyes sought hers with equal gravity. Her laughter was sweet as a silver bell. "You will think me foolish, Senora, but I will tell you. When I was sixteen I wanted to be a great star of the cinema — one who would play first in a small South American cinema, then be seen by a great Page 526 American director who would summon me to Hollywood. 'There I would make so much money that I would live in a Hollywood palace and my mother would have a servant for each day in the week." Her eyes danced with laughter. "That was when I was sixteen, Senora." "Now that you are almost eighteen, what are your ideas of a profession?" "I have more practical ideas now." She folded her hands demurely in her lap. "Like what?" "There are perhaps two things I could do to earn money soon. And I must be quick, Senora, for I do not want to become a servant, and I must care for my mother as well as myself." "And the two things?" 'This girl, I thought, knows what she is about more than her mother realizes. "The first is easy. I could become a saleslady in a department store. My English would insure me a place and the other languages would help." "But do you want to become a salesgirl?"' "No." She said it with decision, her face dark. Then with mercurial quickness, she rocked in gay mirth. "Have you seen some of them, Senora?" She stood up, raising her head with exaggerated pride. "The girls with their haughty manners, their queenly carriages?" Walking across the garden, she imitated the HERMANAS haughty mien of a would-be-lady. More than once I had trailed meekly behind such proud creatures. I laughed until the tears came. "I would have. To. Gain many pounds, and besides there is little pay to it." Quietly she sat beside me. "It is all right for the girls who do not have the great necessity, but I must earn more soon." Her eyes, dark and deep as a child's, sought mine, asking. After a long look she seemed satisfied and leaned against the pomegranate tree, her dark braids touching the cool tile of the bench. "If it is possible, I do the second way, the way of the typewriter. You understand?" I nodded. "Not just ordinary work with the typewriter, that would not pay enough, and I would be very bored. I must be a secretary, a confidential secretary, no?" Y sigh was one of relief. 'The girl was practical, she had brains, and she had charm. Now, if she had the necessary skills. "Can you type, can you take dictation? 'Typing and dictation will open the first doors." "In school for two years I have typed. I can take dictation in Spanish with a little practice, for it comes easy to me. But now," she leaned forward, her whole desire in her eyes, "it is necessary that I go for awhile to a good business school where I type and take dictation in English. It is the English dictation that will get me the good work. I need, too, a typewriter for the prac- 527 tice at home. I need also clothes that I will look like a girl from families who go to work only to get independence from home." She slid from the bench and stood before me. "You see how I dress, Senora?" 'There was bitterness in her voice, in the taut lines of her slender body. "How can I make these dreams come true?" She asked the question of herself, not of me. "I am, at last, in Mexico, and there is a good business school on Insurgentes. To get it I have only to ride on the red bus for a few minutes. I could even walk from here. But to get to that school on Insurgentes I have to cross a barranca that is as deep as it is wide. I can find no path and there is a raging stream at the bottom." "In my country," I said, hating myself for my triteness, "we say there is no gulf so wide nor so deep that we cannot cross it, if there is a will." "I know," she sighed, her body drooping. "I have read your stories. When I heard your missionaries talk at Buenos Aires, I felt I could do anything.' She passed her fingers, brown and tapering, over her eyes. "But now it is dark. I think and I think; yet I have not found a way." She looked like a woebegone child. "Once, Senora, I thought I had found the way. I said I would go to the school and promise to work for the manager or the teachers until my debt was paid, though it would take a long time. But my mother says it is impossible, that if I start doing housework, as a servant, I end there. I am so limited." 528 "Does your mother have any money saved or friends she can ask?"' I knew that was foolish, even as I asked it. "We have been a long time absent," she said, answering the last question first. "My mother was able to save, though you know the wages of servants, and the Senora was kind, but her death came so suddenly. 'The boat home cost money, then the operation, and the living until we came here. 'There is little left." "The Senora de Vargas, would she help?" "She is a widow and has many problems, and we are not of her family. I must find another way." OW, I have the rash, Irish disposition that will take on anything. Caution whispered that often as not my plans did not work, that other people did not see eye to eye with me, but I led, chin out, with, "Do you really want to do this? You are serious?" "As serious as life itself." I had enough caution left to say I must talk with John, my husband, before [ made any promises. "I think, however," I added slowly, "we can work something out. 'The tuition, how much is it a month, and how many months will you need?" The amount she named was formidable, until I translated the pesos into dollars. "I would work day and night to finish quickly. And I am quick." She tried hard to control her eagerness. "I think I may have a plan, but we must not be too sure. We are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 in very modest circumstances, but if my husband agrees, we may find a way to pay your tuition, and you may use my typewriter, starting today, for pract