Let Every Day Be Mother's Day Camilla Eyring Kimball 292
Relief Society Building News 295
Seven to One Geneva E. Wright 303
What About Cancer? Jess H. Rolph 306
Planning Food Buying for Health and Economy Bernice Stookey Linford 312
Nahaka Branch, New Zealand Mission, Sends "Big Canoe" Quilt 305
Created by Your Demand One-Stop Garden and Landscaping Headquarters Grace T. Kirton
Apple Blossoms

SERIAL
Questing Lights Chapter 2 Belle Watson Anderson 340

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 308
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 309
Editorial: A Blessing for Women Marianne C. Sharp 310
Notes to the Field: Summer Work Meetings 311
Magazine Subscription Percentages for 1948 311
Magazine Subscriptions for 1947 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp 314
The Magazine Honor Roll for 1947 318
Notes From the Field: Flower Shows, Handicraft, and Other Activities General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 349
From Near and Far 360

POETRY
Lullaby Frontispiece Margery S. Stewart 291
Treasures Mabel Jones Gabbott 294
Small Boy With New-Born Kittens Katherine Fernelius Larsen 304
Too Deep the Peace Marijane Morris 311
For the Bereft Christie Lund Coles 346
Legacy Gene Romolo 348
Freedom's Loaves Hallie Grigg 348
There Is Music Alice Whitson Norton 357
Friend Grace B. Davis 358
Mother's Scrapbook Ida R. Allredge 358
The Eternal Feminine Again Olive C. Wehr 358
Secrets Ella J. Coulam 359
Summons Marion Garibaldi 359
Father in Heaven, I Thank Thee Arabella Hoke 359

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions $246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

LULLABY
Margery S. Stewart

Tuck the coverlet of night
Around all small and helpless things,
Babies in their broken cribs,
Babies in their silken beds,
While the wind in locust sings
Lullabies for nodding heads.

Let the tumult of the day 
Be folded now and put away;
Let the troubles and the fears 
Be lost with the unsolaced tears. 

Light the lamps of little stars, 
Let new clouds float by to see 
That no small one cries in vain,
That the reaching hands are filled
And the lost held tenderly; 
Every anguished sob be stilled,

Moonlight kiss the cheeks of boys,
Leave them silver dreams for toys.

Through the braids of little girls, 
Weave your white and fragile pearls. 

The Cover: "Fish Lake, Utah," by Glen Perrins.
VOL. 35, NO. 5 MAY 1948

Let Every Day Be Mother's Day
Camilla Eyring Kimball

The observance of Mother's Day has become an impressive outward demonstration of the latent love and gratitude to mothers. It comes by a gift, words of appreciation, acts of kindness, or letters on the part of everyone. 

Mother is a magic word, calling forth a train of memories in the mind of each individual, accompanied by a variety of emotions depending upon how some woman has fulfilled this sacred trust. Motherhood is a career of the first magnitude and is the instinctive ambition of every girl. Nature may endow her with the physical potentiality of motherhood, but to become an ideal mother will take the combined training of home, church, and school. 

Above all must come her own realization of the tremendous responsibility which this sacred calling entails. Her physical, mental, moral, emotional, and spiritual development are of prime importance to the generation she mothers. To be daughter, mother, and grandmother is to make the destined cycle of womanhood and to know the joys, responsibilities, and development which these experiences bring.

Because they call for personal sacrifice and self-mastery, their value is enhanced. The child accepts the care and devotion of a self-sacrificing mother as his birthright. But the law of life exacts full payment for everything we get. This nurturing of our childhood may be repaid in part by loving devotion to parents, but the debt is never paid in full until the child

Page 292
becomes the parent and so in turn cares for a succeeding generation.

The laws of God operate in perfect justice and bring happiness so long as we live in accordance with them. It is only when we selfishly seek to thwart them that troubles and disappointments come. The laws of compensation and retribution are never failing, though payment may be sometimes deferred. There may amass an ever larger and larger debt, but eventually it must be liquidated.

Wise indeed is the individual who pays as he goes in so far as this is possible. Love and you shall be loved. Serve and you shall receive service. 

Protective mother love is the guardian of youth, but protection too long continued makes for weakness, not strength, in the child. To watch the tiny, helpless infant grow and develop under your constant, watchful care is to see a miracle wrought. To live again in the enthusiasm and activity of youth with your children is to intensify and enrich life's drama.

To be counselor and protector, knowing when to assist and when to recede into the background, that your child may learn to walk alone, calls for almost superhuman wisdom. Wise indeed is the mother who has found the source of divine aid through prayer and who begins with the little child at her knee, teaching him to pray to our all-wise Heavenly Father for the strength which will protect him against the forces of evil.

A true mother's objective is to teach and train wisely until she can say with assurance, "My child is strong enough to walk alone with faith as his guide."

LET EVERY DAY BE MOTHER'S DAY

That home is ideal where the true, spiritual perspective of life is the operating force. Not what is expedient or what will bring immediate satisfaction will be the governing factors, but what are lasting and eternal values.

The mother can do much to establish the spiritual tone of the home. She must first have deep-grounded faith herself. She must have become emotionally stabilized and self-controlled so that her own feelings may not interfere with the frictionless operation of her home. It will be she who arranges schedules so that there may be time for regular, peaceful, family devotion. 

She must be persistent in planning and helping carry forward the family evenings, family picnics, and other occasions which will build family solidarity and common interests.

One of the greatest safeguards a child will have is the knowledge that his mother trusts him and that the family looks to him to maintain family standards and family honor.

IT is more blessed to give than to receive" is an axiom often misapplied by mothers. In their anxiety to serve their children they forget that there must be reciprocity in giving if all are to share in the blessings. If she insists on doing all the giving, she deprives her children of the joy of service.

Some mothers enjoy being martyrs. They get a certain morbid satisfaction out of feeling that they do all the giving and take nothing in return. Mothers must learn to accept favors graciously and appreciatively that children may know this satisfaction.

293
Often it is easier to do a job than to accept the untrained help of children, but they can learn to do only by doing. At the other extreme are the spoiled, pampered mothers who feel that they have brought children into the world at great personal sacrifice and are justified in exacting unmeasured servitude in return. They continually complain of aches and pains. They are habitually tired, nervous, and irritable. They enjoy being waited upon and continually remind the children of the great debt owned to mother.

Between these two extremes is the well-adjusted mother who accepts motherhood as the greatest blessing and the greatest opportunity which life can offer. She takes good care of her own health that she may more efficiently care for her family. She is careful of her personal appearance, that her family may be proud of her, realizing that there may be times when it will be wiser to buy a new dress for herself than something extra for the children.

She knows that an immaculate house may not always be a happy home. She keeps up constructive interests outside her home that she may be a more vital and interesting individual. She remembers that she must be a good wife as well as a good mother, striving to keep abreast of her husband so that when the children leave the home nest, they too may still find true companionship in life's evening.

Full measure of joy comes to the devoted mother when in her declining years she can look at her children, strong in mind and body, fortified in moral strength through a knowledge of God's commandments 294 and with the strength to live by his teachings with prayerful understanding.

To see them take their place with honor in church and community life and rear families of their own, gives her the joy of fruition. Her anxieties will not decrease, for she will feel responsibility for each new grandchild, but who wants the dull life where there is no anxiety? Her compensation comes as each of those she loves makes the climb to life's fulfillment.

THE aging mother who has given the full measure of care and devotion to her children should look forward unafraid to her declining years. Her greatest desire will be to maintain her independence to "the end of her days, but she will look longingly for words of appreciation and love. She should not want to hold her children near, if greater opportunities are to be found in other localities, but she will be just as anxious to know of the daily activities of her children as she was when they were little and needed her care. Frequent letters and visits will give the joy that makes life worth living.

Her hunger for affection and thoughtful consideration from her children is just as real as was their need for her when they were little, and this she gave unstintingly. And so the cycle of life repeats itself. The laws of life which God has given us, if we obey them, make this pathway one of gradual development and joy in accomplishment.

The loving, obedient child becomes the wise and helpful parent who merits, in turn, the love of thoughtful children grown strong. The once-a-year observance of Mother's Day should only serve to stimulate in us a greater appreciation for the responsibility of family life. The possibility that this special day may become commercialized is ever present.

There are those careless children who feel that they can make up for a year of neglect of their mother by lavishing upon her expensive gifts and attentions on this day. Mothers are appreciative and grateful, but nothing can take the place of consistent love and devotion. Flowers will fade, but the gift of a pure life dedicated to righteousness lasts through eternity.

Modest mothers accept the public acclaim and special attention with a feeling of reservation and humility. Motherhood has brought to them the greatest joy that can be known to woman. With that joy has come tremendous responsibility, and if she can feel that she has faithfully discharged her trust, she knows the peace and joy that passes understanding.

"Let every day be mother's day" where there is love and understanding between mothers and children and where there is joy in companionship and service of each for the other.

TREASURES

Mabel Jones Gabbott

She who has roused at night to heed the cries
Of wakeful children, coaxing sleep-filled eyes
To open that she may attend their need,
Though grumbling silently, is rich indeed.