Questing Lights Chapter 2 Belle Watson Anderson 340

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 308
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 309
Editorial: A Blessing for Women Marianne C. Sharp 310
Notes to the Field: Summer Work Meetings 311
Magazine Subscription Percentages for 1948 311
Magazine Subscriptions for 1947 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp 314
The Magazine Honor Roll for 1947 318
Notes From the Field: Flower Shows, Handicraft, and Other Activities General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 349
From Near and Far 360

POETRY
Lullaby Frontispiece Margery S. Stewart 291
Treasures Mabel Jones Gabbott 294
Small Boy With New-Born Kittens Katherine Fernelius Larsen 304
Too Deep the Peace Marijane Morris 311
For the Bereft Christie Lund Coles 346
Legacy Gene Romolo 348
Freedom's Loaves Hallie Grigg 348
There Is Music Alice Whitson Norton 357
Friend Grace B. Davis 358
Mother's Scrapbook Ida R. Allredge 358
The Eternal Feminine Again Olive C. Wehr 358
Secrets Ella J. Coulam 359
Summons Marion Garibaldi 359
Father in Heaven, I Thank Thee Arabella Hoke 359

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions $246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

LULLABY
Margery S. Stewart

Tuck the coverlet of night
Around all small and helpless things,
Babies in their broken cribs,
Babies in their silken beds,
While the wind in locust sings
Lullabies for nodding heads.

Let the tumult of the day 
Be folded now and put away;
Let the troubles and the fears 
Be lost with the unsolaced tears. 

Light the lamps of little stars, 
Let new clouds float by to see 
That no small one cries in vain,
That the reaching hands are filled
And the lost held tenderly; 
Every anguished sob be stilled,

Moonlight kiss the cheeks of boys,
Leave them silver dreams for toys.

Through the braids of little girls, 
Weave your white and fragile pearls. 

The Cover: "Fish Lake, Utah," by Glen Perrins.
VOL. 35, NO. 5 MAY 1948

Let Every Day Be Mother's Day
Camilla Eyring Kimball

The observance of Mother's Day has become an impressive outward demonstration of the latent love and gratitude to mothers. It comes by a gift, words of appreciation, acts of kindness, or letters on the part of everyone. 

Mother is a magic word, calling forth a train of memories in the mind of each individual, accompanied by a variety of emotions depending upon how some woman has fulfilled this sacred trust. Motherhood is a career of the first magnitude and is the instinctive ambition of every girl. Nature may endow her with the physical potentiality of motherhood, but to become an ideal mother will take the combined training of home, church, and school. 

Above all must come her own realization of the tremendous responsibility which this sacred calling entails. Her physical, mental, moral, emotional, and spiritual development are of prime importance to the generation she mothers. To be daughter, mother, and grandmother is to make the destined cycle of womanhood and to know the joys, responsibilities, and development which these experiences bring.

Because they call for personal sacrifice and self-mastery, their value is enhanced. The child accepts the care and devotion of a self-sacrificing mother as his birthright. But the law of life exacts full payment for everything we get. This nurturing of our childhood may be repaid in part by loving devotion to parents, but the debt is never paid in full until the child

Page 292
becomes the parent and so in turn cares for a succeeding generation.

The laws of God operate in perfect justice and bring happiness so long as we live in accordance with them. It is only when we selfishly seek to thwart them that troubles and disappointments come. The laws of compensation and retribution are never failing, though payment may be sometimes deferred. There may amass an ever larger and larger debt, but eventually it must be liquidated.

Wise indeed is the individual who pays as he goes in so far as this is possible. Love and you shall be loved. Serve and you shall receive service. 

Protective mother love is the guardian of youth, but protection too long continued makes for weakness, not strength, in the child. To watch the tiny, helpless infant grow and develop under your constant, watchful care is to see a miracle wrought. To live again in the enthusiasm and activity of youth with your children is to intensify and enrich life's drama.

To be counselor and protector, knowing when to assist and when to recede into the background, that your child may learn to walk alone, calls for almost superhuman wisdom. Wise indeed is the mother who has found the source of divine aid through prayer and who begins with the little child at her knee, teaching him to pray to our all-wise Heavenly Father for the strength which will protect him against the forces of evil.

A true mother's objective is to teach and train wisely until she can say with assurance, "My child is strong enough to walk alone with faith as his guide."

LET EVERY DAY BE MOTHER'S DAY

That home is ideal where the true, spiritual perspective of life is the operating force. Not what is expedient or what will bring immediate satisfaction will be the governing factors, but what are lasting and eternal values.

The mother can do much to establish the spiritual tone of the home. She must first have deep-grounded faith herself. She must have become emotionally stabilized and self-controlled so that her own feelings may not interfere with the frictionless operation of her home. It will be she who arranges schedules so that there may be time for regular, peaceful, family devotion. 

She must be persistent in planning and helping carry forward the family evenings, family picnics, and other occasions which will build family solidarity and common interests.

One of the greatest safeguards a child will have is the knowledge that his mother trusts him and that the family looks to him to maintain family standards and family honor.

IT is more blessed to give than to receive" is an axiom often misapplied by mothers. In their anxiety to serve their children they forget that there must be reciprocity in giving if all are to share in the blessings. If she insists on doing all the giving, she deprives her children of the joy of service.

Some mothers enjoy being martyrs. They get a certain morbid satisfaction out of feeling that they do all the giving and take nothing in return. Mothers must learn to accept favors graciously and appreciatively that children may know this satisfaction.

293
Often it is easier to do a job than to accept the untrained help of children, but they can learn to do only by doing. At the other extreme are the spoiled, pampered mothers who feel that they have brought children into the world at great personal sacrifice and are justified in exacting unmeasured servitude in return. They continually complain of aches and pains. They are habitually tired, nervous, and irritable. They enjoy being waited upon and continually remind the children of the great debt owned to mother.

Between these two extremes is the well-adjusted mother who accepts motherhood as the greatest blessing and the greatest opportunity which life can offer. She takes good care of her own health that she may more efficiently care for her family. She is careful of her personal appearance, that her family may be proud of her, realizing that there may be times when it will be wiser to buy a new dress for herself than something extra for the children.

She knows that an immaculate house may not always be a happy home. She keeps up constructive interests outside her home that she may be a more vital and interesting individual. She remembers that she must be a good wife as well as a good mother, striving to keep abreast of her husband so that when the children leave the home nest, they too may still find true companionship in life's evening.

Full measure of joy comes to the devoted mother when in her declining years she can look at her children, strong in mind and body, fortified in moral strength through a knowledge of God's commandments 294 and with the strength to live by his teachings with prayerful understanding.

To see them take their place with honor in church and community life and rear families of their own, gives her the joy of fruition. Her anxieties will not decrease, for she will feel responsibility for each new grandchild, but who wants the dull life where there is no anxiety? Her compensation comes as each of those she loves makes the climb to life's fulfillment.

THE aging mother who has given the full measure of care and devotion to her children should look forward unafraid to her declining years. Her greatest desire will be to maintain her independence to "the end of her days, but she will look longingly for words of appreciation and love. She should not want to hold her children near, if greater opportunities are to be found in other localities, but she will be just as anxious to know of the daily activities of her children as she was when they were little and needed her care. Frequent letters and visits will give the joy that makes life worth living.

Her hunger for affection and thoughtful consideration from her children is just as real as was their need for her when they were little, and this she gave unstintingly. And so the cycle of life repeats itself. The laws of life which God has given us, if we obey them, make this pathway one of gradual development and joy in accomplishment.

The loving, obedient child becomes the wise and helpful parent who merits, in turn, the love of thoughtful children grown strong. The once-a-year observance of Mother's Day should only serve to stimulate in us a greater appreciation for the responsibility of family life. The possibility that this special day may become commercialized is ever present.

There are those careless children who feel that they can make up for a year of neglect of their mother by lavishing upon her expensive gifts and attentions on this day. Mothers are appreciative and grateful, but nothing can take the place of consistent love and devotion. Flowers will fade, but the gift of a pure life dedicated to righteousness lasts through eternity.

Modest mothers accept the public acclaim and special attention with a feeling of reservation and humility. Motherhood has brought to them the greatest joy that can be known to woman. With that joy has come tremendous responsibility, and if she can feel that she has faithfully discharged her trust, she knows the peace and joy that passes understanding.

"Let every day be mother's day" where there is love and understanding between mothers and children and where there is joy in companionship and service of each for the other.

TREASURES

Mabel Jones Gabbott

She who has roused at night to heed the cries
Of wakeful children, coaxing sleep-filled eyes
To open that she may attend their need,
Though grumbling silently, is rich indeed.

Relief Society Building

REPORTS are constantly reaching the general board telling of the active part being taken by the brethren throughout the Church in supporting and encouraging the sisters in collecting their building fund quotas. For over one hundred years the sisters of the Church have labored to help erect Church buildings of all kinds which have been enjoyed by their sisters and their children and helped to build up the Church.

Now the sisters are asking and receiving the support of the brethren in erecting a building in which the sisters may do the work asked of them by the brethren. As they work together in any righteous cause in the Church, the results are certain.

An interesting incident is related in one ward. Near the conclusion of the March 7 program "Building For Eternity," one brother arose in the meeting and moved that the quota for that ward be finished that evening. This was seconded by a boy of eight and another brother and before the sisters left the building that evening, their quota was filled.

A wonderful spirit of love and sacrifice on the part of the sisters had preceded that meeting. They had advertised throughout the stake that they would clean, scrub, baby tend, or cater for anyone in order to help earn the money and had raised a great part of the quota previous to the March 7 meeting.

Other examples of the activities of the brethren are quoted below:

A member of our bishopric remembered his departed mother who had been a faithful Relief Society worker. We were short a few partners for some of the districts, so the bishop went with one teacher and Brother................with another. On the date that was designated, we met as a group of visiting teachers with our bishopric and our stake Relief Society president. At the meeting our bishop told us of the benefits that would be derived as a result of this building, and of the privilege that had come to us as Relief Society sisters to be asked to help.

Many brethren are giving memorial gifts to honor their mothers and wives, both to support the work so dear to their loved ones, and to know that the names of their wives and mothers will be preserved in the cornerstone and the records of the general board. The work of gathering the money is rolling on, gaining momentum as the months pass.

Page 295

296

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY 1948

EMIGRATION STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) COMPLETES BUILDING QUOTA, March 17, 1948

First row, left to right: Emmeline B. Nebeker, former member Relief Society general board; Ruth May Fox, former president, M. I. A.; Winniefred S. Manwaring, standing, President, Emigration Stake Relief Society; Belle S. Spafford, standing, General President of Relief Society; Florence G. Smith, seated, member, general board; Louise W. Madsen, member, general board and former president, Emigration Stake Relief Society; Lillie C. Adams, member, general board and former president, Emigration Stake Relief Society.

Second row, left to right: Mary Jordan, Leah Cheever, Florence Smith, Ethel Goates, Merle Cardall, Sarah Barrett, Vervene Pingree, and Effie Yates, members, Emigration Stake Relief Society Board; President Amy Brown Lyman; Presidents Elsa Carlson (University Ward); Cary Linford (Twelfth Ward); Myra Peterson (Eleventh Ward).

Third row, left to right: Sarah Jarrell and Berta Christensen, members, Emigration Stake Relief Society Board; ward presidents: Margaret Richards (Stadium Village); Mina S. Wignall (East Twenty-seventh); Veda Rockwood (Twenty-seventh); Elva Broadhead (Twenty-first); Veda Whitehead, Secretary (North Twenty-first); Presidents Emma Brooksby (Thirteenth) and Mary Rasmussen (Eleventh).

Jetta Johnson, President, North Twenty-First Ward, was not present when the photograph was taken.

Emigration Stake Relief Society commemorated the 106th birthday of Relief Society with an outstanding, successful social. Over 400 attended. The theme, "A Light Upon a Hill," symbolized the growth of the society and its mission, and was climaxed by the presentation of the building fund quota.

An unusually beautiful setting and music by the Singing Mothers contributed to the enjoyment of the occasion.

STAKES WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS

South Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho)
Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho)
San Diego Stake (California)
Wells Stake (Utah)
Teton Stake (Idaho and Wyoming)
Granite Stake (Utah)
North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho)
Emigration Stake (Utah)
Mesa Stake (Arizona)
Rexburg Stake (Idaho)
NEVADA Stake (Nevada and Utah)
Utah Stake (Utah)
Seattle Stake (Washington)
South Los Angeles Stake (California)

MISSIONS WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS

Northern California Mission
Eastern States Mission

GRANITE STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) PRESENTS CHECK FOR BUILDING FUND, March 17, 1948

Stake President Ida May Dean presents check to Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, of the General Presidency, Chairman, Relief Society Building Fund Committee. In the background are ward Relief Society presidents Bessie Howell, Ruth Durbin, Sentella Pace, Estana Wilson, Carolyn Little, and Thelma Brimley. Carl W. Buehner, President, Granite Stake, stands at the back, left.

WARDS AND BRANCHES AND MISSIONS WHICH 100% BUILDING QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the April Magazine and prior to April 13, 1948)

Afton Ward, Star Valley Stake (Wyoming)
Alamo Ward, Uvada Stake (Nevada)
Albany Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York)
Alma Ward, Mesa Stake (Arizona)
Altoona Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania)
Alturas Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Areata Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Archer Ward, Rexburg Stake (Idaho)
Ashland Branch, Northern California Mission (Oregon)
Ashton Ward, Yellowstone Stake (Idaho)
Auburn Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Auburn Ward, Star Valley Stake (Wyoming)
Avenal Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Baggs Branch, Western States Mission (Wyoming)
Bellingham Ward, Seattle Stake (Washington)
Belvedere Ward, Pasadena Stake (California)
Binghampton Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York)
Blackwell Branch, Central States Mission (Oklahoma)
Bluewater Branch, Western States Mission (New Mexico)
Bonanza Branch, Northern California Mission (Oregon)
Bothwell Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah)
Bozeman Branch, Northwestern States Mission (Montana)
Bradford Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania)
Buffalo Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York)
Bynum Branch, Northwestern States Mission (Montana)
Caliente Ward, Uvada Stake (Nevada)
Campus Ward, East Provo Stake (Utah)
Canandaigua Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York)
Elwood Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah)
Enterprise Ward, Uvada Stake (Utah)
Ene Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania)
Eureka Branch, California Mission (California)
Everett Ward, Seattle Stake (Washington)
Fairfield Branch, Lehi Stake (Utah)
Fairmont Branch, East Central States Mission (West Virginia)
Ferron Ward, Emery Stake (Utah)
Fidelity Ward, East Rigby Stake (Idaho)
Firestone Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California)
Freedom Ward, Star Valley Stake (Wyoming)
Fruitvale Ward, Weiser Stake (Idaho)
Garland First Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah)
Gilbert Ward, Mesa Stake (Arizona)
Glendale Ward, Phoenix Stake (Arizona)
Gloversville Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York)
Grant Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California)
Grants Pass Branch, Northern California Mission (Oregon)
Greenwich Ward, Sevier Stake (Utah)
Hagerman Ward, Blaine Stake (Idaho)
Hermiston Branch, Northwestern States Mission (Oregon)
Herriman Ward, West Jordan Stake (Utah)
Hiko Branch, Uvada Stake (Nevada)
Huntington Branch, East Central States Mission (West Virginia)
Huntington Branch, Weiser Stake (Oregon)
Huntington Park Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California)
Hydesville Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Tona Ward, Big Horn Stake (Wyoming)
Ione Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Ithaca Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York)
Jamestown Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York)
Jessup Branch, Southern States Mission (Georgia)
Junction City Branch, Central States Mission (Kansas)
Kimberly Ward, Nevada Stake (Nevada)
King City Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Kingston Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York)
Klamath Falls Branch, Northern California Mission (Oregon)
Labelle Ward, East Rigby Stake (Idaho)
Lakeview Branch, Northern California Mission (Oregon)
Lamison Branch, Southern States Mission (Alabama)

298 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY 1948

RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS

299

Lancaster Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania)
Larned Branch, Central States Mission (Kansas)
Lawrence Branch, Emery Stake (Utah)
Leadore Branch, Lost River Stake (Idaho)
Letha Ward, Weiser Stake (Idaho)
Lincoln Ward, Seattle Stake (Washington)
Linton Branch, Northern States Mission (Indiana)
Logan Sixth Ward, Logan Stake (Utah)
Logan Fourteenth Ward, Logan Stake (Utah)
Lorenzo Ward, East Rigby Stake (Idaho)
Lyndhurst Branch, Northern States Mission (Wisconsin)
Manchester Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California)
Matthews Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California)
Maywood Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California)
Medford Branch, Northern California Mission (Oregon)
Memphis Branch, East Central States Mission (Tennessee)
Merced Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Mesa Second Ward, Mesa Stake (Arizona)
Mesa Third Ward, Mesa Stake (Arizona)
Mesa Fifth Ward, Mesa Stake (Arizona)
Mesa Seventh Ward, Mesa Stake (Arizona)
Metuchen Branch, Eastern States Mission (New Jersey)
Midvale Branch, Weiser Stake (Idaho)
Monongahela Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania)
Mount Hebron Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Newburgh Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York)
New Plymouth Ward, Weiser Stake (Idaho)
Norfolk Branch, Central Atlantic States Mission (Virginia)
North Fresno Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
North Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake Stake (Utah)
North Twenty-first Ward, Emigration Stake (Utah)
Nyssa First Ward, Weiser Stake (Oregon)
Nyssa Second Ward, Weiser Stake (Oregon)
Oakdale Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Ogden Tenth Ward, North Weber Stake (Utah)
Ogden Twentieth Ward, Ogden Stake (Utah)
Olympia Ward, Seattle Stake (Washington)
Ontario Ward, Weiser Stake (Oregon)
Orland Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Osmond Ward, Star Valley Stake (Wyoming)
Pacific Grove Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Palisade Ward, East Rigby Stake (Idaho)
Palmyra Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York)
Panaca Ward, Uvada Stake (Nevada)
Park Valley Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah)
Parma Ward, Weiser Stake (Idaho)
Parowan West Ward, Parowan Stake (Utah)
Payette Ward, Weiser Stake (Idaho)
Penrose Ward, Big Horn Stake (Wyoming)
Petaluma Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Philadelphia Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania)
Phoenix Third Ward, Phoenix Stake (Arizona)
Phoenix Fifth Ward, Phoenix Stake (Arizona)
Pioche Ward, Uvada Stake (Nevada)
Pittsburg Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania)
Placerville Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Plymouth Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah)

Rhinelander Branch, Northern States Mission (Wisconsin)
Richfield First Ward, Sevier Stake (Utah)
Richfield Second Ward, Sevier Stake (Utah)
Richfield Third Ward, Sevier Stake (Utah)
Verton First Ward, West Jordan Stake (Rochester Branch, Eastern States Mission NY York)

John Branch, Central States (Kansas)
Augustine Branch, Florida Stake (Florida)
Salinas Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Rafael Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Santa Cruz, Northern California Mission (California)
Schenectady Branch, Eastern States Mission (New York)
Sunnyside Branch, Northwestern States Mission (Washington)
Sunnyvale Branch, Northern California Mission (California)

Bear River Twelfth Ward, Emigration Stake (Utah)
Bear River Twenty-first Ward, Emigration Stake (Utah)
Bear River Twenty-seventh Ward, Emigration Stake (Utah)
Tulare Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Tulelake Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
Twin Falls Fourth Ward, Twin Falls Stake (Idaho)
Ukiah Branch, Northern California Mission (California)
University Ward, Chicago Stake (Illinois)
University Ward, Emigration Stake (Utah)
University Ward, Seattle Stake (Washington)
University Ward, Utah Stake (Utah)
Ursine Branch, Uvada Stake (Nevada)
Vale Ward, Weiser Stake (Oregon)
Vermont Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California)
Virden Ward, Mt. 

Graham Stake (New Mexico) Virginia Ward, Portneuf Stake (Idaho) Walnut Park Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) Washington Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania) Watsonville Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Waycross Ward, Florida Stake (Florida) Weiser Ward, Weiser Stake (Idaho) West Seattle Ward, Seattle Stake (Washington) West Suburban Branch, Chicago Stake (Illinois) Willows Branch, Northern California Mission (California) Wilmington Branch, Eastern States Mission (Delaware) Wilson Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania) Worland Ward, Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) York Branch, Eastern States Mission (Pennsylvania) Young Ward, Logan Stake (Utah) - Yreka Branch, Northern California Mission (California)

CARDS OF ACKNOWLEDGMENT TO BE ISSUED AS RECEIPTS FOR DONATIONS TO BUILDING FUND

Three types of cards have been designed as receipts to be filled out by ward Relief Society secretary-treasurers and presented to persons making contributions to the Relief Society Building Fund. The above card (to be printed in gold and white) which will bear the name but no designation of the amount of the donation will be presented to all Relief Society members who are credited with a quota donation or less.

RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS 301 302

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY 1948

The first card pictured below (to be printed in pink and white) will be issued to Relief Society members who make a "Special Gift" (any amount over the $5 quota) and to all other persons making gift contributions. The amount of the "'Special Gift" will be recorded.

The lower card (to be printed in blue and white) will be issued as a receipt to all persons who make a "Memorial Gift." Both the name of the one making the "Memorial Gift" and the one in whose honor the gift is made will be written, as well as the amount. These cards will be available for ward secretary-treasurers to issue to all persons who have paid up to April 20, after the receipt of the April 20 bi-monthly report and a request by each secretary-treasurer of the number of cards needed in her stake.

Additional cards will be mailed thereafter to stakes at two-month intervals as the bimonthly reports are sent in and reports are received of the needs in each stake for each type of card. Seven to One Geneva E. Wright

This isn't a scheme to get something for nothing. It is, however, a sure-fire plan which pays big dividends on a small investment. People say, "I hate to write letters, but I love to get em." Being one of that class myself, I worked out a plan whereby I get seven letters back for every one I write.

With mature families scattered, since the war, all over this globe, many of them, like Humpty-Dumpty, will never be together again. Letters are the cheapest means of contact with them, but letters, even to loved ones, have a way of being spaced farther apart as time goes on, unless something special is done about it.

My scheme is an adaptation of the old "round-robin" applied to family units, and the bigger the group the better. Everybody in the family joins in writing a letter and adds it to the envelope as it reaches him. After it makes the rounds once, each person takes out his old letter and puts in a new one. And around it goes again!

Many people have contributed to a round-robin at one time or another, which flew around on strong wings a few times, then fluttered weakly and died en route. But a family robin is a healthier bird, hatched as he is in a nest of affection, fed by seeds of kindness, and bathed in smiles and tears. His life expectancy should rate him A-1 on an insurance policy, and with a few crumbs of imagination and understanding sprinkled on the window sill for him as he makes his rounds, he should be good for many years as a messenger of family love.

I was lucky enough to be born in a family of seven children, knit close by the needles of necessity into a fabric rich in pride and self-reliance. We all grew up eventually and "married off," scattering from Florida to California, and when mother and father died, the threads which had held us together became tenuous indeed. Correspondence dwindled to a printed card at Christmas time or a cursory letter betimes, until the robin idea was finally hatched.

Since then he has been flying high, making his visit about every three or four months, and when the big manila envelope arrives marked "letter mail," there is always a family reunion of those living near. A brother in California writes that he is a cub scout leader and would like some Indian beads to decorate war bonnets for the cubs, and since I live on an Indian reservation, asks me to please send him some.

Another brother makes up a booklet of snapshots of his new home, beginning with a view of his wife and family welcoming us at the front door and taking us on a tour of each room, with appropriate remarks written underneath the pictures. A sister tells of her ensign son in the South Pacific and includes pictures and clipping of his adventures as published in the local paper.

Page 303 304

Other occurrences as graduations, special awards for achievement, and weddings are, of course, rich grist for the letter mill. One round is occasionally taken over by the in-laws, providing an objective viewpoint, for a change, and we see ourselves as others see us; and on another flight, the nieces and nephews do the honors.

Another sister is interested in family trees and keeps the births, deaths, and marriages of everyone down to the latest tick of the clock, besides delving into the family skeletons of the past to determine who fought where during the Revolution, and where the fighters came from before that. Poetry of a sort creeps into the letters when another sister can't express herself adequately in prose.

The weather and superior climate of various parts of the United States furnish many a hot debate, especially between Floridans and Californians. Quizzes and questionnaires proved diverting for a time and, of course, pictures are always a must. One clever letter was made up entirely of printed words, phrases, and pictures clipped from magazines and put together with finesse and imagination to fit the situation, and was good for a dozen chuckles.

In fact, there is no end to the variations which can be used to make each round a surprise. Naturally, the basis for all of this is the good newsy letter telling what Jane has been up to, that Dad just got over the flu, of the party that Sue attended and brought home the prize, and, most important of all, simply saying, "I love you all."

An unwritten rule is that personalities and unpleasant topics, if any, are to be reserved for individual letters. The robin is a harbinger of joy and can thrive only when carrying pleasant messages. And, strangely enough, the urge to write some individual letters also has developed as a result.

Something Ruth says in her letter makes me want to tell of my experience, which wouldn't be of interest to the rest of the family, so off goes a separate letter to her, and thus the chain lengthens and strengthens. If your family relations need perking up, try starting a cheery round robin.

He makes sweet music and is a welcome lovebird, besides.
SMALL BOY WITH NEW-BORN KITTENS
Katherine Fernelius Larsen

He kneels, hands still for once, enrapt
Above the mother and her five;
Wondering at the squirming things
So small and softly warm alive!

He moves one finger just to touch,
Then runs on urgent feet to tell...
Only to find words not enough
For his first miracle!

Nahaka Branch, New Zealand Mission, Sends "Big Canoe' Quilt to President Spafford

GENERAL
President Belle S. Spafford and Sister Elva T. Cowley, President, Pacific Mission Relief Society, are shown admiring the unique quilt. Sister Cowley reports that when she first went to New Zealand the women knew nothing about the making of quilts. She conducted a campaign and taught them to quilt.

The central motif of this design depicts the large canoe which brought the Maoris to New Zealand. The names of these people are embroidered above their heads. Each of the outside blocks of the quilt was made by one of the sisters of the Nahaka Branch and has her name embroidered on it. Each block represents, also, a scene or a symbol representative of New Zealand.

One block shows the "Tiki," which is a good luck charm of great significance to the people of the islands. Another block shows the flax plant which is very important as it is used in all the weaving and handcraft. Dyes for the flax strands are secured from the bark and roots of various plants.

Another block shows the ornamental fence which surrounds each small community in which the people live. The almost extinct Moa bird is represented, as well as other birds, trees, flowers, and animals peculiar to New Zealand.

Page 305

What About Cancer?
Jess H. Rolph [Prepared for the Utah Division, American Cancer Society]

Many people know what cancer is, yet one person out of every eight in the United States dies from it, or as a result of its deadly action.
True, there are many unanswered questions about cancer, many false notions concerning it, but, thanks to the work of the American Cancer Society, there is much we do know. It is not a disease that is infectious, nor does it enter the body from the outside, but, like the stealthy sneak it is, it comes from within!

Cancer has been defined as a group of normal body cells that start abnormal growth, pushing aside the other cells in their ruthless conquest of the body. Though the causes of cancer are varied, it is known that it never develops in healthy body tissue.

For example, irregularity of eating does not cause cancer, but it may result in unhealthy conditions within the digestive system, which sooner or later give rise to it.
One half of all cases of cancer are found in the digestive tract; approximately one-third are in the stomach. One factor in the development of this disease is continual or chronic irritation. It is as though the cells of some body tissue lose patience, break into open revolution, and begin building up their rebel army through cell division.

There are three types of irritants: chemical, thermal, and mechanical.
Over-exposure to hot sun and high temperatures may be the cause of skin cancer. Constant rubbing of a mole, wart, or old scar may be sufficient mechanical irritation to cause rebellion and growth of malignant tissue.

Certain people are more susceptible to cancer. Whether this is due to the faulty functioning of certain chemical substances in the body, or to some other condition, is, as yet, unknown.
One job of the American Cancer Society is to have research done on this puzzling phenomenon.

Cancer victims are to be found among young and old, men and women, married and unmarried. No age group is free from it. Babies are sometimes born with it and over two thousand people under twenty-one die of cancer every year.
Among men the danger zones for cancer are the lips, lungs, stomach, prostate gland, intestines, rectum, throat, and mouth. Among women the hazardous spots are the womb, breasts, intestines, rectum, stomach and genitourinary organs.

An unmarried woman is more likely to have cancer of the breast than a married woman who nurses her children, while cancer of the cervix occurs more often among married women who have borne children.
Cancer can be cured but only
WHAT ABOUT CANCER?
When diagnosed early and treated adequately!

There are many things you can do to guard against cancer. Many cancers can be cured if caught in time!
There are danger signals. Memorize these seven signs.

1. Any sore that does not heal, particularly about the tongue, mouth, or lips.
2. A painless lump or thickening, especially in the breast, lip, or tongue.
3. Irregular bleeding or discharge from any natural body opening. Do not wait for pain. See your doctor!
4. Progressive change in the color or size of a wart, mole, or birthmark.
5. Persistent indigestion.
6. Persistent hoarseness, unexplained cough, or difficulty in swallowing.
7. Any change in the normal bowel habits. Do not attempt to diagnose yourself. Go to the doctor!

A very good idea is to arrange for periodic health examinations for yourself and your family. Imagine the joy that knowing you are all right would bring!
A thorough examination should include:

1. Careful inspection of the entire body surface, heart, blood vessels, and a lung examination.
2. Examination by sight and touch of all body openings that can be so examined, such as the mouth, nostrils, ears, throat, sinuses, vagina, and rectum.
3. Examination of stomach and intestines by X-ray; microscopic examination of blood, urine, and any suspected tissue.
4. Examination of the eye, bladder, prostate gland in man, and special examination of breasts of women.

Education on the subject of cancer is of utmost importance, and each state has a divisional cancer society. These organizations are supported by contributions from the public and every donation made goes toward furthering the study of and eliminating this dreaded disease.
Families have been kept intact; breadwinners have been helped to stay on the job; emotional tragedy has been averted and financial suffering has been decreased.

Only you can save yourself from cancer. The cancer societies have but one mission to perform: through your contributions and the efforts of thousands of volunteers and active members, an endeavor is made to eliminate this scourge, cancer!

Public education, through the press, radio, literature, films, display, and public speakers, helps enlighten the public.
All this magnificent work is dependent upon the contributions made to the Cancer Fund.

Three paragraphs which appeared in the Montana Cancer News express completely the feeling that goes into the making of contributions:

In religion we are taught that the good deeds we do on earth store for us jewels in a heavenly crown.

But I like to think that man need not wait for heaven to receive his reward. The well-known truism "It is better to give than to receive" has often been proven by the wealth of personal and spiritual satisfaction one acquires from giving of oneself freely in unselfish service to others. There is no greater fuel to feed the flaming fire of the human spirit than unselfish service to mankind: The server serves without thought of payment, but the joy of service and the knowledge that a job which needed doing has been done, brings its own reward!

Give to the cancer society!