Purchase your favorite pat- 4 terns at Sears:
Fabric Center
In a forest of tall trees;
In a field of waving clover
And the hum of golden bees.
There is music, sweet, exotic,
In a gay canary's throat;
In the lark, and in the linnet,
And a wee wren's magic note.
There is music, gentle music,
In the ripples of a mill;
And a steel saw lends enchantment
Butterick McCall's
To a common timber mill.

Simplicity
That has through the ages rung,
Underwear Opportunities Are Better - - rayon for men and women. Ames Write us and Prices    Is fully approved for G.I., training. Special rates for returned missionaries. Write for free literature L.D.S. 36 Business College South Main It Lake Cit Salt Lake City, Utah 70 North Main Salt Lake City Page 357

There is music, wistful, mystic,
Yet, by far the sweetest music
Are but words of praise and kindness
Uttered by the human tongue.
Wartime shortages are over
Our factory is again operating to capacity
We can now fill underwear orders in fine cotton and for
Styles Of Buck And Co. C.F.A.G.S Sila ease: 50 to Geely "Til 9 Thorough business training is an effective connecting link between a general education and employment in business or civil The L.D.S. Business College

FRIEND Grace B. Davis For all the beauty of this lovely tree,
For stately grace and verdant mystery
Of restless leaves whose movements lightly trace
Their graceful patterns as they interlace
In shadowed arabesques upon the velvet sod, My heart sends up its grateful thanks to God.
Her brooding branches gently sway and bend
To moods of wandering winds that lightly tend
The tiny nestlings as their cradles high
Swing gently to a twilight lullaby.
For shadowed coolness, strength, and majesty,
My heart rejoices in this friendly tree. - Mother's Scrapbook Ida R. Allredge

I was too busy and too carefree then,
And she, too patient far to reprimand.
In comradery, she sought to understand;
The years slipped by and she was laid to rest.
Oh, how I longed to counsel with her then,
Her arms around, my head upon her breast,
To feel her calm assurance once again.
One day I found her scrapbook, worn with age,
And hungrily I scanned each fingered page
My baby face, a lock of golden hair,
Choice sayings and a simple little prayer;
I shed my worries like an old, worn cloak,
For from these yellowed pages, mother spoke.

~   _>
The Eternal Feminine - Again Olive C. Wehr

Why will a girl proclaim her hopeful lover
The perfect man in every way,
And then proceed to make him entirely over
Immediately after the wedding day?

With a Smile
We are proud of the steady progress of our O.P.S. Stores and it is to you, our customers, that we give our thanks and _ heartfelt smiles.
We want to please you and help to keep you smiling with easier shopping days..
Skaggs

For Bible Students
Designed for the teacher and advanced student.
Over 60,000 center references.
Easy-to-read type. Concordance, Atlas and Maps.
No. 163. Genuine leather, overlapping covers, round corners, 4 amber under QUALITY   headbands, book mark
King James: - Version National pipes AT YOUR BOOKSTORE SINCE 1863.

Made Gold edges, SECRETS

Ella J. Coulam

I told my deepest secret
To a little humming bird.
She vowed that she would keep it
And never tell a word.
Today, I saw her whispering
To each flower in the sun
I know she's told my secret
To every listening one.

When next I have a message
Of love and kindly word
I'll pretend that it's a secret
And tell a humming bird.

> SUMMONS

Marion Garibaldi

Twig-colored bird,
Stir the gray bough!
Infinite purpose
Everywhere, now!

Rainbows and flowers
Out of the murk.
Mystery, power,
In springtime lurk.

Lily and weed
Their work must do;
Courage, comrade,
Joy summons you!

Ie

Father in Heaven, I Thank Thee Arabella Hoke

Father in heaven, I thank thee tonight
For sleep and for rest
And for the stars so bright;
For angels to protect me
Till morning light.
Father in heaven, I thank thee.
Father in heaven, I thank thee today
For health and for strength
To go on my way;
For food and for raiment
And the wind that blows free,
Father in heaven, I thank thee.

Relief Society Music or se) Day

Little Mother of Mine ... 20c M-O-T-H-E-R 20c Mothers Lullaby 15c Mother O'Mine 20c My Mom 15c Song of Mary (Asper) 15c Songs My Mother Taught Me _____. 20c That Wonderful Mother of Mine __. 15c Those Songs My Mother Used to Sing 15c Any of above sent postpaid upon receipt of price or may be charged and paid for later.
We pay postage on all sheet music and books.

First of All   Reliability
45-47 South |   d "Sb 6 Main Street Salt Lake City 1, Utah

Page 359

For My Mother
Mother Machree 15c 5c

From Near and Sar Camilla Eyring Kimball, author of our feature "Let Every Day Be Mother's Day," was born in Colonia Juarez, Mexico. She attended B.Y.U. And U.S.A.C., and taught home economics at Millard Academy and Gila Academy. She is the wife of Elder Spencer W.

Kimball of the Quorum of the Twelve, and they have three sons and one daughter; the eldest son, with his wife and three little daughters, is studying at Oxford University in England; the daughter, with her husband and baby girl, lives in Salt Lake City; the second son is a missionary in New England; the youngest son is a student at the University of Utah. It might interest you to know that your beautiful temple in Hawaii is shown many times on our projection screen from color photographs, which my husband took there on his way home from the islands of the Pacific. Our friends always gasp with delight at one taken of the grounds, a blue pool surrounded by trees. Although my work is unknown to you, your work is quite familiar to me because of those pictures.

Erma Myers Arthur, Vallejo, California.
I should like to thank you for the very fine things you are giving us in the Magazine. Recently my little daughter tore her plastic covered umbrella beyond repair. We read and followed the article by Mrs. Perschon (January 1948) on how to cover an old umbrella frame to our mutual benefit. Now she has a new umbrella; I have a new experience and knowledge. Happy and proud to be a contributor to such a magazine as our Relief Society Magazine. May you find great joy in your work and inspired help for every problem.

"at Jones Gabbott, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Our dear author, what a delightful story "Pankapaw," by Deone Sutherland (March 1948). Surely you make the Page 360 commonplace sublime. I think of Bret Hart making "'Miggles" a soulful story through his love for the plain and unnoticed, Write some more, please.

Cloe B. Rogers, Ogden, Utah.
Incidentally, I surely enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. I read it and pass it on.

Karl Spafford, New England Mission.
Your very fine magazine has an important place in our home. I find my mother and my daughter enjoy it as I do. Success to you in your work is the wish of all Relief Society members everywhere.

Helen S. Hughes, Farmington, Utah.

Charlotte Ann Dunn Lindsay, ninety-two, of Powell, Wyoming, still enjoys doing beautiful handwork. She knits mittens and bootees for her grandchildren and great-grandchildren, crochets, quilts, and makes colorful, attractive rugs. Parents of eleven children, Charlotte and her husband David E. Lindsay pioneered Big Horn Basin. For more than forty years, Sister Lindsay has served as a worker in Relief Society.

Maka Lessons From JESUS THE CHRIST
Vivid. With Picturos.
GROUP 1 GROUP 2
Nativity e Feeding 5,000 Shepherds Healing Lepers Wise Men Man at Pool lauaweine Temple Jairus' Daughter: E Lazarus Flight to Egypt Parable of Sower Among Doctors Temptations Wheat and Tares Heals Woman. Talents Walking on Water 7 Ten Virgins Healing Dumb Man Prodigal Son Healing Deaf Man. Good Samaritan Healing Blind Man _ Widow's Mite Draught of Fishes Calms $9.0 0 In Grain Field GROUP 3 GROUP 4
Chooses Disciples Jesus Enters Jerusalem Cleansing Temple Last Supper With Children Gethsemane '"Consider the Lilies" In Gethsemane Mary and Martha Arrest of Jesus Preaching from Boat Jesus and Peter Woman at Well Jesus and Pilate St. Pilate Washes Hands es dal Before Caiaphas Nicodemus c 0. His Robe Peter's Confession He Is Risen Peace to This House PORE Rich Young Ruler
Transfiguration Ascension

VEN though their "daddy" has been taken away, this mother and daughter can still play together because their "daddy" made sure they would have a Beneficial Life Income to provide for their daily needs.

BENEFICIAL LIFE Insurance Company Salt Lake City 1, Utah George Albert Smith, President