The Pioneer Jubilee By Annie Wells Cannon And when the century has rounded out its cycle In this now blessed western land, Where once the Indian hunted his wild game And where ourown brave pilgrim band Into the bleak and sterile desert came? Then when you, being known as authors, orators, and men of world-wide note, Shall look upon God's temples, beautiful, vast halls of fame, and costly works of art? Forget not then the founders, and, with true ancestral pride, Remember these achievements are but their promise verified, ?E. B. Wells Ths noble thought of remembrance of the labors, of the trials, and of the achievements of Utah's pioneers inspired every effort of the celebration which was held Juty 22, 23 and 24, in honor of the commonwealth's birthday and the few survivors of that gallant band of men and women who entered the Salt Lake Valley in the year eighteen hundred and forty-seven. The Daughters of the Utah Pioneers took the initiative in the move to make this seventy-fifth anniversary?the Diamond Jubilee?a memorable and fitting tribute to the fathers and mathers through whose patience, endurance and faith such wonders have been wrought in this great western land. But as the thought spread, to the assistance of the "Daughters" rallied a host of prominent citizens, all desirous to show honor and homage to Utah's founders. Except for the Golden Jubilee in 1897, when the Pioneer Monument, which now graces the intersection of Main and South Temple streets, was presented to the state, there has probably never been so fine or complete a celebration in commemoration of the eventful day. Governor Charles R. Mabey, President Heber J. Grant, Mrs. Flora B. Horne, president of the Daughters of the Pioneers, with  Mrs. Anna T. Piercey as secretary and LeRoi C. Snow as treasurer, composed the general committee under which all the other committees and sub-committees functioned for the success of the celebration; and to the responsible and exacting position of chairman of -he executive commitee, Hon. George Albert Smith brought the utmost energy and ability. To him was submitted every detail of preparation by all the sub-committees, and his approval of it was a guarantee that. There would be a perfect and harmonious co-ordination of every proceeding; so that from the _ meeting of the trains on the first day; to the escorting of the honored guests to their homes on the evening of the last day, everything worked smoothly and regularly with no time wasted or lost, and not one unpleasant or unhappy occurrence during the whole three days. Saturday, July 22 The "Jubilee" opened on Saturday evening, July 22, with a reception and banquet at the Hotel Utah, the pioneers of 1847 being the guests of honor. Each of these veterans of that first year was presented with a white silk badge on which was his or her name, and each one was duly registered. These details, together with the entertainment of the out-of-town guests during their stay in the city, were attended to by the "Guest Committee" with Mrs. Donnette S. Kesler as chairman, and Mrs. W. W. Riter in charge of ho el arrangements. Bishop David A. Smith was master of ceremonies at the banquet, and President Heber J. Grant was toastmaster. Between courses, the University Glee Club rendered a number of old-time songs in which some of the pioneers heartily joined. These old melodies recalled incidents of the journey across the trackless plains, and evoked emotional expressions both of sorrow and joy among the guests. "Hard Times Come Again No More," and the "Hand Cart Song" released the ready tear, while laughter and merriment accompanied the gay rendition of "Oh, Susannah," "Doo Dah," and "Upper California." Patriarch Harrison Sperry, aged 90, a pioneer of 1847, played old-time dance tunes on his violin, and Prof. George Careless, the veteran choir leader, in this old accustomed, tender way, played "The Last Rose of Summer" and "Bonnie Sweet Bessie, the Maid of Dundee," recalling to the minds of many present the lovely voice of his gifted wife, the late Lavinia Careless, who so often used to sing those old time favorites. The speakers on this occasion were state, county, and city officials and the president of the Daughters of the Pioneers, who each in turn gave a touching and warm greeting; there was also a humorous address on "'How the Pioneers 'Keep Young" by Dr. E. G. Gowans. After the singing of the "Hand Cart Song" PIONEERS OF 1847 AND ESCORTS ON THE CAPITOL STEPS, JULY 24, 1922  President Grant asked if there were any present who came across the plains in that way, whereupon three arose in response. President Grant also introduced Lorenzo Sobriskie Young, aged 81, the only survivor of the original band of pioneers who left Winter Quarters in the Spring of 1847, under the leadership of Brigham Young, and whose arrival in the Salt Lake Valley, July 24, gave Utah its birthday. The evening closed by all singing "Come, Come, Ye Saints." 4 Sunday, July 23 The exercises of this day were solemn and impressive, consisting of two memorable services in the great Tabernacle. In the morning there was a beautiful song service and historic pantomime; and in the afternoon a tribute service. Mayor C. Clarence Neslen presided over the song service and made the opening remarks. In eloquent and reverent words Prest. Anthony W. Ivins invoked the blessing of the heavenly Father on all present and on the day's service, alluding to the faith and integrity of those who had marked the way into the desert land and giving all praise to the goodness of the Lord for his mercy and guidance. W. Clive Bradford led the congregation in singing Aunt Em Wells' popular song 'Our Mountain Home So Dear," and Professor John J. McClellan rendered pioneer airs on the great organ. A number that was pleasing and effective was the solo "The Flag Without a Stain" by President Grant. 'the audience joining in the chorus; and the "Spirit of Heroes" was excellently rendered by he Southwick quartet. The historic pantomime, "The Songs of the Trail," under the direction of Miss Charlotte Stewart and accompanied by Professor Amedee Tremblay and Professor Edward P. Kimball, the latter a grandson of Prest. Heber C. Kimball, and a great-grandson of William Clayton, two of the original pioneers, followed the song service. In this number, various episodes of the journey and the founding of tthe state were vividly portrayed in song and living picture. The first episode, "The Indians Upon the Trail," was given by the Boy Scouts; then came "The Ca holic Fathers in the West," by the choir boys of the Cathedral of the Madeleine; this being followed by "The Trappers Opening tthe Way," by the Young Men's Mutual. Of Granite stake. Lineal descendants of actual pioneers presented the following tableaux: "The - Pioneers at Council Bluffs;" "A Pause on the Trail at Chimney Rock?'Come, Come, Ye Saints', and "The Arrival?'This is the Place'." The make-up and costumes of these young people produced resemblances that were really remarkable; and old mem-~- ories crowded thick and fast upon the veterans present as the familiar and beloved figures of President 'Young, Heber C. Kim-  ball, Orson Pratt, Erastus Snow, Wilford Woodruff and others, appeared upon the scene. The tribute service of the afternoon was presided over by Elder George Albert Smith of the Council of the Twelve, a grandson of two of the original pioneers; and the especially prepared music for the occasion, under the direction of Prof. A. C. Lund, was lovely and appropriate. The Tabernacle Choir gave two beautiful anthems, "Ye Shall Dwell in That Land" and "Thanks be to God Who Laveth the Thirsty Land;" the Salt Lake Opera quartet sang Kipling's Recessional, ''Lest We Forge," and Hugh Dougall, a grandson of President Brigham Young, sang "Come, Come, ye Saints," the congregation joining in singing the last verse: And should we die before our journey's through, Happy day! All is well! We then are free from toil and sorrow, too;: With the just we shall dwell: But if our lives are spared again To see the Saints their rest obtain, O how we'll make this chorus swell? All is well! All is well! Assistant Church Historian Andrew Jenson read an interesting and valuable paper entitled, "Who are the Pioneers of 1847 >" showing that there were six distinct groups arriving in the valley in that memorable year: First, the original band of one hundred and forty-three men, three women and two children, led by Brigham Young; 'second, an invalid 'detachment of the Mormon Battalion, under Capt. James Brown; third, some "Mormon" families from Mississippi who had previously joined Capt. Brown's company at 'Pueblo; fourth, a few members of the panty who, under Samuel Brannan, had sailed from New York to California on the ship Brooklyn, in February, 1846, and reached Buena Yerba (now San Francisco) the following July, after a tedious and hazardous journey around Cape Horn, being five months on the water, then braving the terrors of ?he Sierra Nevadas and across the great desert to the valley of the Great Salt Lake the following year; fifth, the nine companies of Saints who in groups of "fifties" followed the original pioneers from Winter Quarters, and were called "the fall companies;' and sixth, members of the Mormon Battalion who, having 'been honorably 'discharged from their service in the United States army, made their way across the southern route from California to Utah. Of these various arrivals, which totalled nearly two thousand, a number returned that first year to Win er Quarters, leaving in the valley during the first winter about eighteen hundred souls, Professor Levi Edgar Young, in a glowing and eloquent 458 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tribute, narrated many of the early experiences of the pioneers, and spoke of their high ideals and culture, their love and desire for education and all the other finer things that might make for themselves and future generations a life worth while. He referred to their love for the drama, and the establishment of a shrine for this art within three years of the advent of the pioneers, dwelling upon their heroism tempered by the sublimest of faith, of their loyalty to their leaders, to their country, and to their God. A choice and tender tribute was paid to the pioneer mothers by Mrs, Zina Young Card, after which President Heber J. Grant addressed the pioneers in his characteristic and delightful way, telling many experiences in the life of his father and mother (both of whom 'were pioneers) and expressing thankfulness of heart for their labors and for the teaching of Church history which he had received at his mother's knee?all of which enabled him better and more fully to appreciate the trials and sufferings endured by the men and women who had so wonderfully paved the way and subdued the land and thus made all things possible and beautiful to those who now enjoy life. He felt honored in honoring the survivors of that noble band, and wished for them all happiness and peace in their remaining years. The chairman, Elder Smith, then called the roll of the survivors of those who entered the valley in 1847, and no less than 67 responded, this 'being the number officially in attendance at the jubilee to enjoy the hospitality and the entertainment provided by the committees. The benediction was pronounced by Seymour B. Young, president of the First Council of Seventy. A luncheon was served the pioneers and their escorts in the assembly room of the Bishop's Building, during the noon hour, under the supervision of Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, assisted by a bevy of young girls. Monday, July 24 The festivities on Monday began at eight in the morning, when all the guests of honor and their escorts, with a member of the "guest committee" for each group, were taken for an auto ride to various historic spots where exercises of an interesting and appropriate character were held. A concert by the Firemen's Band was given in front of the Hotel Utah as the veterans took their places in the seventy autos which were in waiting, all numbered and bearing a pennant in green and gold designating them as "official cars." Leading the column in he first car were President Heber J. Grant and other officials, as well as members of the executive committee, and following them the other cars fell into line according to their number, the whole movement being  accomplished without delay or confusion. Each point to be visited was reached in schedule time, and every detail in the arrangement was successfully carried out, reflecting credit upon the fine management of the transportation committee, of which Mr. George Dern was chairman and Harry S. Joseph in charge of auto arrangements. The line of march began with a ride down Main Street, thence east on First South and out to the mouth of Emigration canyon where the first stop was made at the monument which designates the spot where the pioneer leader, President Young, halted to overlook the valley, and uttered the historic phrase,