Guide Lessons for November LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in November) MIRACLES?PART II?THE MIRACLES OF THE SAVIOR Relation of Jesus to the Father in the Performance of Miracles Jesus of Nazareth was the Jehovah of ancient Israel. He and' the Father are coordinate members of the Godhead in matters pertaining to this earth; i. ?., Jesus has power to do anything that his Father would do, but this coordination does not exclude the recognition of leadership or presidency when both are present. The reverence of the Son for the Father, and the love of the Father for the Son make them as one, and their power is so held in unison that Jesus said, "I and the Father are one" (Doc. & Cov. 93:3; and "All power is given unto me, both in heaven and on earth," (Matt. 28:18.) Individual and Cooperative Miracles Some miracles are performed by the Father and some by the Son individually. In the miracle of testimony, in the case of Peter, the immediate source of power was the Father. It was one of the Father's individual miracles, for Jesus was in the flesh. (See Matt. 16:15, 16, 17.) Some miracles are events in which both the Father and the Son participate. Such a one was the first miracle of "Mormonism." (See Pearl of Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith, Chap. 2.) The Miracle of Resurrection. Concerning the miracle of the resurrection little is recorded as to who participated in that transcendental event; whether it was cooperative or individual is not stated, but that Jesus had the power to perform the miracle of immortal life seems quite evident from his declaration: ''Therefore doth the Father love me, because I - lay down my life?I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again." (See John 10:17, 18.) His immortal birth, at all events, was a voluntary act, as was his mortal birth. (See II Nephi 1:13.) His mortal birth at Bethlehem was announced by angels with the song of peace. (See  Luke 2:7-14.) At the sepulcher, angels who had evidently attended to some of the physical details of the great miracle testified as to the first self-victory over death on 'this earth. (See Matt. 28:5,6; Mark 16:5, 6; John 20:1-22.) ' Miracles and Power The miracles of Jesus were manifestations of power, but of the many performed we have no record of but one of self-preservation. (See Luke 4: 27-30.) In his miracles he demonstrated his power over nature by turning water into wine. (See John 2: 1-11; "Stilling the tempest" Luke 8:24; "Feeding the multitude," John 6:9; 9:13.) He showed his mastery over men by driving the profiteers out of the temple. (See Math. 21:12,13.) He proved his spiritual sovereignty by rebuking and casting out devils. (See Mark 5:1-17.) Sin was miraculously subject to his power of forgiveness. (See Matt. 9:2.) Loathsome, incurable diseases fled when he spoke. (See Luke 17:12-16.) Death gave up its victims at his command. (See John 11:32-44.) The Faith Factor! In case of personal healings, personal faith was an important factor. In some instances it was in the person healed, as in the case of the woman healed of a hemorrhage by touching the garment of the Master. (See Mark 5:25-34.) In the case of the hea!- ing of the servant of the Roman centurion the faith element was in someone other than the one healed. (See Matt. 8:5-13.) In the miracles operated upon nature, bad men, and evil spirits, Jesus operated with perfect effect without the elemen' cf faith other than his own. The Study of Miracles In studying a miracle, circumstances and place and purpose should be thought of, and to this, more than the verse references should be read. The parent student should scan the page for truth with a double intent, first, to know, and, second, to tell. Rehearsing the miracles of the Savior, with the right attitude, is a beautiful form of worshiping God in spirit and in truth. One who would be a good teacher of miracles should know the record from as many writers as have recorded them. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1, How is it possible for Jesus and his Father to be intrinsically one and yet not identically one? See John 17:11-22. 2. Of the many miracles performed by Jesus, which one alone was of a self-preservation nature? 496 ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE o>) What is the miracle of testimony, and in which one was the Father the immediate source of power? Aa 4 faith as a factor in miracles, O what extent were the sins of man forgiven by Jesu he healed them of the palsy? 7 Y Jenene - "il een es performing miracles did the Savior show the wisdom of doing nothing for people th for themselves?. I Tell how to study miracles. LESSON II