Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" THE RELIFF SOCIETY IN BUNKERVILLE, NEVADA: On the 23rd of Nov., we left for Bunkerville, crossing the Rio Virgin a great number of times. When we were nearing Bunkerville, the braces on our carriage tongue broke and left us in the river; through the kindness of our esteemed friend George F. Jarvis, we were carried out and landed on terra firma We met with the Relief Society sisters. They own a lot containing an almond orchard also a granary, and something over a hundred _ bushels of wheat. We advised them to make what improvements they could and turn their almonds into grain, and store it against the time of need —Ann C. Woodbury TO MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG (on Her Birthday) From ev'ry saint that dwelleth here, From saints that long this land to see, This day is wafted heavenward Remembrances and prayers for thee. From weary march and roofless camp Unto the temples famed and grand Thy feet trod first the barrenness And to His houses lent thy hand. —Augusta Joyce Crocheron WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION: The W. S. A. Of Parowan held an exultation meeting the evening of the seventh. It was a general time of rejoicing. The house was filled to o'er flowing as it generally is at the meetings of the W. S. A. The room was neatly decorated for the occasion.. After the opening exercises yellow ribbon badges were passed to all present. The program consisted of speeches, songs, music from the orchestra and band. Many were called on for sentiments or expressions of their feelings on this joyful occasion (the granting of statehood to Utah) —J. M. L. DYING, YET LIVING After seasons of storm-cloud and sunshine Close the year with unerring pace, The traces of pleasure or trial Are written on mind, heart and face, Again we pause for a reckoning— Contrition, and solemn resolve; Sweet conscience silently beckoning While many new plans we evolve, That will chasten, uplift, and inspire To feelings more pure and divine —E. R. Shipp Page 30 "THE women of the Philippines are extraordinarily progressive. Usually the business managers in their households, they are often also joint managers with their husbands, of business enterprises. The percentage of women physicians, surgeons, dentists, pharmacists, lawyers, and professors is much higher than in the United States. In the College of Liberal Arts, University of the Philippines, thirty-five per cent of the faculty are women—a three or four times higher percentage than in most co-educational institutions in the United States. Although it was 1937 before female suffrage came to the Philippines, two-fifths of the voters in 1953 were women. LICIA PATTERSON, publisher of Long Island's Newsday, is a brilliant journalist. She represents the fourth generation of the Medill, Patterson, McCormick journalistic dynasty. Stormy Colonel Robert R. McCormick, recently deceased, and his cousin, Joseph Patterson, published the Chicago Tribune upon the death of their famous grandfather, Joseph Medill, a _ great journalist. "Bazy" Miller 'Tankersley, former Washington Times-Herald editor, another woman-of-thefamily newspaper star, is a niece of Colonel McCormick.