[Vol25 | September 1938 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Women We Should Know]

Women We Should Know Agnes Lovendahl Stewart—Master of Arts—Business Woman By Ramona W. Cannon AGNES LOVENDAHL STEWART is more interested in talking about modern girls and their opportunities in business than in talking about herself. Yet her own achievements are outstanding. She is regarded as one of the leading figures among women in business in the West.
Both her talents and her experience have been unusually diverse, and the advice she gives to others to work at whatever offers, for the sake of development, she has always taken herself. She spent three years teaching in the Church schools, took a Master of Arts degree at Columbia University, and on the side did all the work that institution offered in journalism. She wrote her thesis for graduation on the subject, ""Mormons in Literature." She gave up teaching to take a position in Gillam's Advertising Agency as a stenographer because she wanted to enter the field of business. A year later she began to write advertising copy. She went to Auerbach's department store as assistant in the advertising department, and now as Sales Promotion Manager, she is familiar with the buying, personnel work, fashion shows, window displays, interior displays, and many other lines. She can handle this important position only because she has developed herself highly in the various phases of merchandising.
Personality and temperament have been important in her success.
Common sense, sympathetic human understanding, a sense of justice, reliability, are outstanding traits of Mrs. Stewart. She has dignity with humor, and efficiency with polish. Her intellect, swift and true, allows of no wasting of precious moments.
Through her power of self-discipline, her many qualities are blended into an harmonious, wellpoised personality, prepared to meet any kind of situation intelligently. PERHAPS one reason Mrs.
Stewart loves to discuss the opportunities that are open to young girls today is because she has two young daughters who will, before very many years, be branching out into careers of their own. Mrs. Stewart, through her work comes in contact with the many fields of activity in which women have, of recent years, become successful.. "In just the few years since I graduated from college, women have made strides that are simply amazing—and if you go back in history less than one hundred and fifty years to the start of the factory system when women first began going out of the home and into the business world, you will find that the progress has been nothing short of miraculous," is Mrs. Stewart's enthusiastic comment. "Can you believe that just about a hundred years ago—in the decade between 1830 and 1840—women and little girls worked in the textile factories of New England from twelve to fifteen hours a day, six days a week, and for this heavy labor received the magnificent sum of $1.50 a week! Not only have conditions greatly changed, but now women may use their abilities in many more occupations," she adds. 614 "In the retail field, with which I am most familiar, she can achieve success in selling, in buying, in executive management, in personnel work, in advertising, display, or sales promotion work, in merchandising, or in office work—such a variety in this one single field, that it offers opportunity for many types of personalities, and many different kinds of ability." THAT woman should achieve success in retail business seems a very natural development.
Since she has always been the one to do the shopping for the family—buying, so experts estimate, more than 80 per cent of the family's purchases—it is natural for her to know what kind of sheets,. Blankets, draperies, bedspreads, pots and pans, dresses and hats, that women want. It is natural, too, that she should help to plan, design, and make these things and many others that women use in their homes and for their families. In colonial times in New England, and in pioneer times in our own western states, every home was a little factory, where the things the family needed were manufactured by the mother, with the help of her daughters.
Little by little these activities, which kept a woman's day so full of happy work, were taken over by machinery in the factories outside the home, or were done more quickly and easily by machinery in the home. So, when women go out into business and industry today, they are just continuing the "women's work" that their great-great-great-grandmothers did in their homes before the days of machinery. The only difference is that now women do this work in a different environment and in a more specialized way. "HOW can a girl prepare herself for a career in business?" is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE one of the questions Mrs.
Stewart is most frequently asked. "By getting the best education she can possibly secure, by taking part in school and church activities, and by working whenever she gets the chance," is Mrs. Stewart's answer, based on her own experience. From 1914 to 1917, when Agnes Lovendahl was just "one of the girls' at the U. Of U., she was partially earning her own way by working as a telephone operator at the University switchboard, and selling behind the counter in various stores on Saturdays and during vacations. At one time or another, she has sold almost every type of merchandise a department store carries, and she has also had "behind the scenes work" unpacking china from its barrels of straw, and wrapping bundles. She recalls with a chuckle that the hardest problem she ever had to face in the retail business was figuring out how to wrap a broom, a dishpan and a set of glassware during a rush sale, while an impatient customer fidgeted.
During her college days she also found time to work on the University Chronicle, the Utonian, and the Pen, because she loved to write and to draw pictures. She also enjoyed working in Sunday School and Mutual, and writing for the Church magazines. "I think I was most fortunate in having to work while I was attending school because I am now sure that the varied experiences I gained in that way have been the most valuable preparation I could possibly have had for my present job. I believe it was just as important to me as the formal education I obtained in school," is Mrs. Stewart's comment. She added that she would advise every girl to take part in school ac- AGNES LOVENDAHL STEWART—MASTER OF ARTS 615 tivities, in church and ward activities, and to work during her school - vacations if her health and energy permit.
These experiences are most valuable in developing a well-rounded personality. GIRLS of today have great opportunities open to them, and' each opportunity is a challenge to the best they have to offer," continues Mrs. Stewart. "Not very long ago, there were only a few professions considered proper and fitting for a girl." How different now! If a girl scribbles cartoons all over her school. Textbooks, and goes into raptures over the colors of a sunset, she'll probably never be happy unless she is giving expression in some creative way to her artistic bent. So she can become a fashion artist, and draw the luscious pictures of glamorous ladies wearing gowns and furs so superbly that every woman who reads the newspaper or magazine in which the sketch appears, immediately is consumed with the desire to look like that—or at least to own the clothes that the glamorous lady wears! The things her clever fingers can portray for advertisements are legion: amusing children, teen-age and college fashions, still-life studies of smart accessories.
Some women with a talent for art become illustrators for books or magazines.
Others with artistic talent combined with a flair for clothes become designers of dresses, underwear, coats, or children's frocks.
When they are successful, as a very great many of them are, they command very high salaries indeed. Sonie, with a more exotic trend, become designers for the stage or screen, while others design patterns for fabrics, styles for Turniture. One high-salaried woman employed by a large mail order firm, does nothing but design packages in which their products are to appear, and as a side-line she has stream-lined their refrigerators, ranges and washing machines. "There are so many opportunities for the use of a talent for drawing or painting that it would take hours to name them all!" says Mrs. Stewart. For the girl who has literary talent, there opens up the entire field of advertising.
This is a very big field, and a very attractive one from the point of view of the absorbing interest its many and varied subjects have. To work in advertising is a college education in itself, because if you must study the manufacture of aluminum the first hour of your day, in order to write appealingly about the new utensils for waterless cooking, during the second hour you are quite as likely to be digging into the details of the latest Paris fashion openings. No wonder advertising is a fascinating job for the girl who likes to write! For the girl with radiant enthusiasm, who talks well, who likes people, who has boundless energy, there opens up a splendid career in selling merchandise—a career that is full of romance and delight, and that has a real future if one is willing to work. For the girl who is a keen judge of values, who weighs and compares, who is interested in textiles and materials, in how things are made, who has a fine sense of style, and who at the same time works well with other people, can sell with enthusiasm, and has a good mind for statistics—for this girl there is the possibility of a career as a buyer in a department store or specialty shop. It's a big order, to have so many diverse qualifications, but it is a big job, too, with big rewards!
Quite aside from the financial rewards—and a buyer's job 616 is one with an excellent salary—there are other rewards that also attract. - Buyers for important fashion departments make frequent trips to the markets in California, Chicago and New York.
Buyers for some of the larger stores and syndicates make buying trips to Europe, although of late years these have become more rare. The buying job is a challenging, fascinating one, for the girl who is willing to accept responsibility. For the girl who is interested in people, who is kindly, human and understanding, who is a natural'born teacher, there is a splendid field in personnel work in retail business. A Personnel Director has many duties: teaching fashion facts, and merchandise information to salespeople; welcoming new employees to the organization, giving them training in system so that they can work efficiently; helping the co-workers in any problem or difficulty; planning and carrying out the details of various activities of the organization, such as parties and outings. For the girl with a keen sense of fashion, who instinctively knows what goes with what, and who can accurately judge what the women will want to wear next spring or next fall—for such a girl, if she has also an infinite abundance of tact and good nature, there is an opportunity to work as fashion co-ordinator.
Sometimes this involves also the presentation of fashion shows, and the giving of radio talks on the store's merchandise, in which case she should have a pleasing voice, and enthusiasm for her subject so great that it fairly bubbles over and spreads contagiously to her audience. "Retail business offers almost boundless opportunities to girls with many different aptitudes and desires," says Mrs. Stewart. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "CONSIDER for a moment, a few women who have been outstandingly successful: Mrs. Hortense Odlum has done a wonderful job as president of Bonwit Teller's. In New York, and has become nationally recognized for her leadership in that fine store. Her career 'is doubly interesting to us because she is a Utah girl from a pioneer family of southern Utah.
Another successful woman in retailing is Mary Lewis, recently resigned as vice-president of Best & Co. Of New York, who earned in that position more than $53,000 a year.
Think of Margaret McBride, radio commentator, whose salary is $52,000 a year.
Consider also Miss Tobe, fashion prognosticator par excellence, who reports fashion news for smart stores throughout the country, and whose income is in the very high brackets! Shouldn't such records encourage girls starting on their careers today?" But of course the top looks a long, long distance away when one is just beginning. "I know by heart what every girl says,' comments Mrs. Stewart. "She cries with great despair, 'Every employment manager asks what experience I have had, and when I 'say I haven't had any, he says there isn't any opening! How can I get experience if nobody will give me a job?' That is the first big hurdle the beginner has to meet!" Mrs.
Stewart has gained in her business experience a few bits of wisdom which she passes on to the beginner in the following Do's and Don't's: "Get the best education you can afford—both general cultural education and also vocational training for the job you want.. "Keep on studying after you get AGNES LOVENDAHL STEWART—MASTER OF ARTS 617 out of school—your education has just begun when you graduate! "Be thoroughly prepared for the work you want to do—not just halfbaked. If you want a job as stenographer, be sure your shorthand and typing are excellent—not just passable. In any job be sure your preparation is sound and thorough as far as you can get it in school. "Don't get discouraged at the first refusal—come back again and again and again! "Be well groomed when you make your application —- remember you must make a good impression in the first ten seconds. "Know exactly what you are going to say when you apply for a job— it doesn't hurt to write down all your good points and memorize them. It's a good idea, too, to practice what you're going to say—you won't be so likely to forget in your nervousness later before the interviewer. "Remember that no matter how much education you have had, you will still have to start at the bottom and work your way up. The education should help you to rise more rapidly, but it isn't an Open Sesame to the big jobs—you still have to go through the apprenticeship period, gaining the knowledge that only experience can give. "Take whatever job is offered, even if it isn't exactly the job you had hoped to get—it will still give you the right to. Use the magic phrase which is so important: J Have Had Experience! "When you get an interview with a prospective employer remember the following points: Don't slump or slouch—sit erect but at ease; don't fidget with your handkerchief or tap your fingers on the arm of your chair—sit quietly no matter how painful it is; look at the employer when he asks questions and when you answer them; walk briskly — many an applicant has lost the chance of a job because her walk was listless or tired. "Most important of all, remember that in getting or keeping a job, one of the most effective words in the English language is SMILE! "And after you get a job," continued Mrs. Stewart, "'it is important to do it every day to the best of your ability, studying all the while, so that when a vacancy occurs above you, you are ready and prepared to move up a step.
Employers will give opportunity for advancement to those within their organization who have the ability, knowledge and ambition to progress." MRS. STEWART?'S own career has demonstrated this fact, for the Auerbach Company has given her opportunity to advance from the position of assistant in the advertising department, to the position of Sales Promotion Manager, which involves supervision of newspaper, radio and direct mail advertising, window and interior displays, and other activities connected with selling.
Although she is very keenly interested in the many fascinating phases of her job, she finds the greatest delight of her life in her home, and in the two daughters who are adored by Mrs.
Stewart and her husband, Robert Stewart. "There has been no loss of affection in our home because of my business activities," says Mrs. Stewart. "I am more alive, because my work keeps me alert and interested in everything." Her greatest ambition is to be a worthy friend and companion to her daughters, and her greatest hope is to be able to give them the educational opportunities that will enable them to live their lives fully and completely, realizing their greatest possibilities for mental development and spiritual service. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon SEPTEMBER—Take one's work seriously no matter what the field. It is one step toward success. A COMMENDABLE enterprise is the County Woman's Market, situated on the outskirts of Washington in Maryland. The farm women own and run this market as an avenue to dispose of the products of their farms.
Each woman has her own stall and dispenses her fresh fruits, vegetables, dairy and poultry products or fresh bread, cakes, pies or whatever her special fancy may he. The market is popular with Washington ladies, who quite informally drive out to replenish their larders with choice viands each Wednesday and Saturday. MARIE of Rumania is dead.
Noted for her beauty, her wit, and queenly grace; with the wisdom of the statesman she controlled the destiny of Rumania and other principalities of Southern Europe for generations. MLLE. SUZANNE LENGLEN, daring unconquered queen of the world's tennis courts, died last July in Paris, France. She was champion in the Olympic games at Antwerp and in the tournaments at Wimbledon. DR. ELZADA CLOVER and Lois Jotter, Michigan University botanists, women members of the expedition that rowed the Colorado River from Green River in Utah through the gorges of the Grand Canyon, gathered over 300 rare plant specimens during their thrilling experience. No other women have ever made this trip. MRS: VERA S. KING, wife of Utah's senior Senator, according to an article in the "Washington Star," possesses unusual charm and decided literary taste. She is founder of a club called "The Seven Arts" and has a novel ready for publication. LILY PONS, Metropolitan opera star, scored a triumph almost equal to the great Jenny Lind in her recent tour of South American cities. In Buenos Aires the city took on the aspect of a national holiday. ARGARET ARMSTRONG'S latest contribution to literature is "Fanny Kemble, A _ Passionate Victorian".
This biography is more colorful than any work of fiction. It is a brilliant scintilating portrait of a fascinating and great woman. In the book are also passages of other Kembles of who Thackeray's daughter Anne wrote, "The Kembles strike one somehow as a race apart." ELIZABETH BANKS died recently in London. Her book, "The Almighty Dollar," is said to have caused a change in presenting Americans at court. PHYLLIS CRAWFORD with her book, "Hello the Boat," won the Julia Ellsworth $3,000 award for the best children's book of the year.